The track peaked at number 8 on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 2 on the Canadian 100 Hit Tracks chart.
Hooked on Classics 3 (Journey Through the Classics) is the third album in the Hooked on Classics series, performed by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra under the direction of Louis Clark.
The video, filmed in Cleveland's Phantasy Theater, was directed by David Greathouse whose work included music videos for the band, Mushroomhead.
David then performed with different UK opera companies, one of which was the Glyndebourne Festival Opera for their Summer Festival and touring company.
His appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show during her Holiday Music Extravaganza, where he sang "What Child Is This", with Mary J.
Evancho performed nearly the same songs as those on the Dream With Me CD for her first solo concert televised special, which first aired in June 2011 on PBS stations ("The Prayer" was omitted, but "Dark Waltz" and "Mi Mancherai" were added).
Career On November 8, 2019, Super Vocal released their first single, Mandarin version of the song "Into the Unknown" (未知的真相), title track of the Disney animation Frozen II.
In September 2017, Potts won the 320th episode of the South-Korean television music competition Immortal Songs: Singing the Legend, in a duet with Bae Da-hae.
A few days before his "Arnau" Concert of 29 June 2019, in Astana, Kazakhstan, there were explosions near the Kazakhstan city of Arys that caused casualties.
Professional singing career In 1999, Garðar won the principal role of Raoul, Vicomte de Chagny, in The Phantom of the Opera at Her Majesty's Theatre in London's West End.
In the early years of her performing career, MacGregor was a prolific composer for the theatre (including work for Cheek by Jowl, and Oxford Stage Company's production of Hamlet at Elsinore Castle and the Edinburgh Festival).
Since leaving the group she has toured Australia, Dubai and New Zealand as a soloist with The Morriston Orpheus Male voice choir.
On 20 September 2006 it was announced on the Amici Forever website that Jo Appleby would be leaving the group to pursue a career as a solo artist.
Her performance with the Auckland Youth Orchestra of Handle's Lascia Chi’o pianga was recognized by the For Those Who Love Opera Facebook page, which is followed by more than 280,000 people, with For Those Who Love Opera sharing her work.
Chris Brubeck was a "formidable songwriter", a first class exponent of the trombone and the bass and a pianist whose skill at the keyboard was widely underestimated.
In September 2008 Osokins joined the Royal Academy of Music, studying under the guidance of Hamish Milne.
On 6 January, his producer and composer Igor Krutoy claimed in a comment on his own Instagram account that Dimash's account had been put offline following the events.
At the England versus Scotland Six Nations Rugby Match at Twickenham on 21 March 2009, Ansell sang "God Save the Queen" at Twickenham.
The second, released by Telarc in 1996, is a 58-minute CD performed by the same artists and von Stade's elder daughter, Jenny Elkus.
As a child, Shahoian performed with the Oakland Symphony under the direction of the late Calvin Simmons.
She plans to release a classical-fusion album with hip-hop/trap influences in 2020, entitled Key of Black Minor, to be released alongside a documentary of her life.
...They wouldn't be a runaway...and just lay a real beat behind it an' the people would began to really like it.
Release Bloodlines was released and distributed by Midnight Syndicate's own label, Entity Productions, debuting at #12 on Billboard's Classical Crossover charts.
In late January 1942, Durbin and Universal settled their differences, with the studio conceding to Durbin the approval of her directors, stories, and songs.
It was released in 1988 and serves as the second and final album by Mercury to be recorded outside of Queen.
Two examples of this are Lesley Garrett's excursions into musical comedy and José Carreras's recording West Side Story, as well as Teresa Stratas' recording Showboat.
The featured single on the album is Silent Night, a collaboration with David Foster, who arranged the song, and accompanied the trio on piano, and featured vocals by Gloria Estefan.
Track listing Note: Sian Edwards conducted the Orchestra and Chorus of Welsh National Opera, with Meinir Huelyn on harp.
Loussier composed film scores and a number of classical pieces, including a Mass, a ballet, and violin concertos.
In 2006, a collection of her solo and choral work with Anúna, Celtic Dreams, was released on Valley Entertainment Records.
It was the 29th biggest-selling album of 2008 in the UK and made Rhydian the most successful male solo artist of that year.
Born in Much Wenlock, Shropshire, England, she trained at Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London.
Her first internationally released album, Pure, reached number one on the UK classical charts in 2003 and has sold more than two million copies worldwide, making it one of the fastest selling albums in her country's history.
On August 10, 2010, Evancho performed on a special YouTube quarter-final edition of the fifth season of America's Got Talent.
It was released by Really Useful Records and Polydor Records on LP (with a gatefold cover), cassette and CD.
In some contexts, the term "crossover" can have negative connotations associated with cultural appropriation, implying the dilution of a music's distinctive qualities to appeal to mass tastes.
Rigoletto, live from Mantua, 2010 RAI film version of Rigoletto, performed live on location in Mantua, Italy and broadcast simultaneously in 148 countries.
Release history – 14 March 2008 – 17 March 2008 – 25 March 2008 – 24 November 2008 (2 CD edition) References External links Mike Oldfield Discography – Music of the Spheres at Tubular.net
5 on the Billboard Classical Crossover Albums chart and was featured on the Tamron Hall Show where he shared in depth about his adoption story.
When writing, we wanted to create pieces that incorporated the multiple levels of the vampyre: the hunger, the reflection, the predators, the prey, the passion, and the fury.
Later, in the 1980s, Franchi continued to perform at a number of popular venues in the United States.
Soon after, Rushdie won a place with the Royal Choral Society with whom she has performed regularly, including her second performance of 2011 at the Royal Albert Hall, Carmina Burana.
The video marked the first time Midnight Syndicate performed live together on stage and featured cameos Mushroomhead band members Jeff Hatrix and "Schmotz".
She specialized in opera arias, art song, and semi-classical songs, which is today known as classical crossover.
The record features different versions of songs included in the chart-topping album Colours in the Dark, plus a studio version of "Into the Sun", previously only available as a live track (originally on Act I).
Aacayipsin sold two and a half million copies and earned Tarkan the "Best Male Pop Music Artist" award at the Turkey Music Awards.
Jonathan Antoine (born 13 January 1995) and Charlotte Jaconelli (born 24 August 1995), known collectively as Jonathan and Charlotte, were an English classical crossover duo from Essex.
One direction; nice, simple, sitting in a sunny field, female-voiced acoustic folk, the other towards a rarer thing, this fusion of English medieval progressive classical, chamber orchestral music, via Vaughan Williams, Cardiacs, Vernon Elliott, Henry Cow.
See also Tuscan Skies (Cieli di Toscana) References External links Cieli Di Toscana on Billboard.com Cieli Di Toscana on Ultratop.com
She took singing classes with a variety of different teachers as well as piano, dance, and acting classes.
Rahman) – 5:26 "Moroccan Roll" (Jon Cohen, Kad Achouri & Vanessa-Mae) – 3:08 "Handel's Minuet" (George Friederic Handel) – 3:50 Chart performance == References ==
Milton Brown and His Brownies, Bob Wills and His Texas Playboys, Spade Cooley and His Buckle-Busters, Adolph Hofner and His San Antonians, Tex Williams and His String Band, Grady Martin and His Winging Strings, and Billy Gray and His Western Okies all had their own albums.
Erich Kunzel had presented collectors with the most complete edition of The Sound of Music that had ever appeared on the shelves of a record shop.
In the fall of 1968, Corea began recording and touring with Miles Davis, appearing on the widely praised Davis studio albums Filles de Kilimanjaro, In a Silent Way, Bitches Brew, and On the Corner.
This album, being Bocelli's fifth pop release, peaked at number 1 on the Dutch Albums Top 100, stayed on that chart for 33 weeks, and ended up being certified Gold.
In June 2017, Safina performed "'O sole mio" with Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli at the Peoples' Friendship Palace in Tashkent, Uzbekistan.
It was released on 23 November 2009 by Syco Music in the United Kingdom, and by Columbia Records in the United States one day later.
In Germany, the album was certified 4× Platinum for shipping two million units, making it one of the best-selling albums ever in the country.
He attended the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York, and graduated with a bachelor's degree in performance.
His duet with Celine Dion, "The Prayer," originally appeared as a solo version (for Celine Dion) in the 1998 animated film Quest for Camelot, and won the Golden Globe for Best Original Song as well as being nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song.
Robin Leach wrote: "12-year-old superstar singer Jackie [Evancho] stole the night with her "Bridge over Troubled Water" sung barefoot in the water of the giant stage.
Jon Christos (born John Christodoulou 23 March 1976, Salford, England) is an English singer, local radio presenter.
Later that year around Christmas, she performed all over New York City, and with the Latshaw Pops Orchestra at The Palace Theatre in Greensburg, Pennsylvania.
Track listing "Pie Jesu" "My Lagan Love" "In Trutina" "Panis Angelicus" "Amazing Grace" "Just Wave Hello" "La Pastorella" "She Moved Through the Fair" "Ave Maria" "Dream a Dream (Feat.
Designed to be listened to first and segued into Mansion in the Mist, Bloodlines expands upon the backstory of the Haverghast family and the events that transpired before the story in The 13th Hour begins.
Deutsche Grammophon's engineering was one of the album's few weak points, probably because of the inherent difficulty of recording singers moving around on a stage.
Marsh graduated with a First-class Honours degree from Birmingham University and was awarded the Barber Scholarship to study Opera at the Royal College of Music.
She wrote the English lyrics for the song "Your Love", music by Igor Krutoy and interpreted by Dimash Qudaibergen.
Having favoured the approach and results on Sky's first two albums, in 2024 he would reflect on a certain dissatisfaction with the group's subsequent direction and musical development.
Concerts In 2017 they had concerts in several cities in Latvia (Riga, Jelgava, Rezekne, Ventspils, Liepaja, Cesis) to promote their album “Ludwig van Rammstein”.
She is the first female artist to win two consecutive Classical BRIT Awards: her second album, Second Nature, reached number 16 in the UK Albums Chart, and was Album of the Year in the 2005 BRIT Awards.
The 13th Hour is the sixth studio album by Midnight Syndicate, released June 7, 2005, by Entity Productions.
It's a magical musical journey." The trio appeared as "The Christmas Tenors" to wrap up the Open Air Concert Series put on by Varela's Victory Productions at The Villages Polo Fields.
Emma Shapplin (born Crystêle Madeleine Joliton, 19 May 1974) is a French soprano singer, composer and visual artist known for her fusion of operatic singing with electronic and pop music influences.
The band further expanded in 2016 with the addition of drummer Artūrs Jermaks and welcomed double bass player Alise Broka in 2020.
Thapa worked with the National Chamber Choir in Dublin before moving back to London, and was in the Scottish Opera's production of Kátya Kabanová.
It includes songs from the musicals The Phantom of the Opera, Tell Me on a Sunday, Evita, Cats, Jesus Christ Superstar, Starlight Express and Requiem.
Its Manhattan premiere, starring Plácido Domingo and Brightman, was filmed by the BBC and PBS for later broadcast.
In December, Forte joined Gunn, Isabel Leonard and John Fogerty in performance at the MLB Prostate Cancer Foundation 2015 New York Dinner in New York City.
She learned from a young age to play the cello and the piano and at first trained to be a concert cellist.
Under the private tutoring of Swedish tenor Gösta Winbergh of the Royal Swedish Opera and French tenor Christian Papis, Bühler enriched his classical repertoire.
2021 2020 Summer Olympics Gymnastics - Two works performed, Winter Symphony performed by Vladislava Urazova and her arrangement of Tchaikovsky's Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy by Lee Yun-seo 2021 ISU World Team Trophy in Figure Skating 'The Fire Within' performed by Rika Kihira.
He has told the media that he regards the institution of marriage as outdated, stating he would only get married for the benefit of any children he might have.
Schoenberg's contribution was restored to its first position and a new narration track was dubbed circa December 1950.
Her voice coach for 2 years while studying in Vienna in 2007 was Claudia Visca, an American soprano.
He also interpreted the role of Percy in Donizetti's Anne Boleyn at Pittsburgh Opera with John Mauceri during 2000/2001.
When asked if Bell had any objections to Presley recording his own version, Bell gave Colonel Tom Parker, Presley's manager, a copy of his 1955 Teen Records' recording, hoping that if Presley recorded it, "he might reap some benefit when his own version was released on an album".
The band gained a huge popularity in Japan, were they released a series of largely instrumental albums such as Da Makani (1988) exclusively for the Japanese market.
Christos also accompanied Davis in June 2007 at James Bond theme concerts with the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic, and the next month at Leeds Castle in Kent.
She was initially selected, but was let go soon afterwards owing to their feeling that, at age twenty, she was too old.
In addition to classical music in an American vernacular, the quartet occasionally breaks out on more traditional instrumental bluegrass tunes.
Chart performance On 24 August 2014, Stars debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart, ending Ed Sheeran's eight-week run at number one with his album x.
Discography Singles "Silent Night" (2020) Albums Christmas Serenade (Nov, 2020) as EP, Full release in 2021 Romantic Serenade (Feb, 2021) as EP See also Fernando Varela Craig Irvin Devin Eatmon References External links Official website
The label combines new recordings with re-releases of older recordings which MacGregor was able to reclaim after Collins Classics ceased trading.
The album included a re-make of the Weasels' cut "Something Wicked" from Uranus or Bust, along with eleven new tracks composed by Weäsell and Graf.
Death Vincenzo La Scola died at the age of 53 on 15 April 2011 in Mersin, Turkey due to a heart attack.
As One, one of the tracks in her album, Sanctuary is the theme song for NHK's program, Autumn's 3 Biggest Open Groove 2006.
He used his gifts to inspire and lift others and will be greatly missed." A complete obituary ran in the Southeast Missourian on November 10, 2018 and an obituary ran in the St.
Shilkret's son Arthur, the publisher for the concerto did not pursue further exploitation of the concerto, nor did his wife Barbara Shilkret, who became publisher upon Arthur's death in 1982.
Rhydian is the self-titled debut studio album by Welsh singer Rhydian, the runner-up on the fourth series of The X Factor.
In 2007, Fabri completed her bachelor's degree in psychology (B.Psy Hons.) from the University of Malta and also gained various diplomas in child psychology.
Current members Cameron Barclay Nicholas Matters Michael Edwards (MD) Andrew Waldin Thomas Weaver Ben Cody-Osborne Shaun Kohlman Ben Clark Jack Jordan Sam Ward Band Benjamin Kiehne (Piano) Trent Bryson-Dean (Drums) Note: The roster of members does change – the above list is current as at April 2023.
On 3 March, Boe performed in 'The End of the Show Show' on Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway alongside Michael Ball.
The Marcy Playground album drew little notice until a radio station in San Diego began playing "Sex and Candy" and at the same time the song was chosen by filmmaker Morgan J.
Some of his performances in the Spanish operetta include La Gran Vía (The Great Way), La revoltosa (The Rebellious), in which he played Felipe, and La verbena de la Paloma (The Fair of the Virgin of la Paloma), in which he played Julián.
Track listing "The Impossible Dream" "To Where You Are" "What If (duet with Idina Menzel)" "The Prayer" "Bridge Over Troubled Water" "There Will Be a Time" "Somewhere" "Not a Dry Eye in the House" "I Believe" "I'm Coming Home Again" "Who Wants to Live Forever" Charts == References ==
They say her voice is "one that heals," which is an accurate description considering her soothing vocals and extensive range.
After the September 11 attacks in 2001, when she was 15, Church was criticised for the remarks attributed to her by the New York Post in which she allegedly criticised "the hero status afforded to New York firefighters" in their aftermath.
In 2010 the band self-released their debut live DVD "Sterling EQ Live in Concert", which won them the SAMA Award in 2011.
Songwriting March 20, 2020, China's first male bel canto quartet, Super Vocal, performed "Qui con me (Ni De Se Cai)" ("Your Colors") on the Hunan Satellite TV singing competition Singer 2020, in both Italian and Chinese lyrics.
His Mass, Lumières: Messe Baroque du 21e Siècle (Lights: A Baroque Mass of the 21st Century), has been compared to Leonard Bernstein's Mass.
Her entry's title, "Marte", and a preview of the song were released to the public on 20 September 2019.
Members As of February 2007, the band consisted of: Lucy van Gasse (England) (soprano), born in Nailsea, Somerset.
During this period Marín lived in the Netherlands in Eindhoven, but moved back to Spain when he was twelve.
Discography Studio albums Compilation albums Awards Mo Awards The Australian Entertainment Mo Awards (commonly known informally as the Mo Awards), were annual Australian entertainment industry awards.
The "Weekly Feature Concert—New Recordings” program of Los Angeles radio station KFAC played the recording of the Genesis Suite on 7 February 1947.
Following this a partnership was established with Avex Entertainment to promote her album Key of Sea in Japan Commencing June 19, 2019, Thomas embarked on a well-received summer concert tour of the western United States.
The second issue, Classical Speed 2, was released on August 18, 2004 with tracks including "Jupiter" as the intro, and 19 other tracks, including technically non-classical compositions such as "Jazz Suite Waltz", "Amazing Grace", and "Stars and Stripes Forever".
She then competed on season 16 of America's Got Talent when she was 9, and made it to the finals with the “golden buzzer”.
References External links Holly Holyoake official site Official MySpace profile Holly Holyoake at BBC Wales Holly Holyoake International (fan site)
Seemingly, the behaviour was to be explained with a sort of revenge for the room carpeting, to which the trio was allergic.
Recently she had some performances in Mexico City and Pachuca de Soto with the Mexican Crossover tenor Oscar Aguilar.
The Herald Angels Sing"), the album contains various famous arias and hymns ("Panis angelicus", "Ave Maria (Vavilov)").
In 1996, Walt Disney Studios hired Fabian as the voice of the character of Esmeralda in the Canadian French version of the animated feature The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Almost all the members of Fairport Convention have toured the folk club circuit solo or in smaller units and the line up at Cropredy includes as many acoustic acts as electric.
He also began to build his own instruments, one of which, a mbira, was later employed by Robert Fripp.
The period orchestrations which he had championed "[did not] miss a trick to underline the syncopation in Rodgers's writing".
His progress in the field led him to move to Amsterdam, where he studied voice at Sweelinck Conservatorium with Udo Reinemann, a well-known German baritone.
"Williamson's Garage" "Daisy's Dead" "Frankfurt, I'm Sorry" "Christmas Eve" (traditional) "Resurrection" "The Miller's Daughter" (Kelly) "Bare Branches" "Strange Bedfellows" "Kiss and Tell" "Milk, Tea and Oranges" "Let the Ass Bray" == References ==
The album contains eight unreleased songs, written by Diane Warren, Luis Bacalov and Latin Grammy winner Edgar Cortazar among others, and four covers.
Later Puno graduated from the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts and went on to direct the film "Valle de Lágrimas" in 2006.
Komsky lived in Danville, California, and went to Monte Vista High School where he joined the chamber choir.
In 2006, Louwerse became the youngest ever winner of the Dame Joan Sutherland Opera Award and went on to record a debut EP entitled She Walks in Beauty.
I Will Be With You is a translation of the African version "Jy Vat My Hoër" and "Follow Your Heart" is also translated.
In an interview with Digital Spy, the band explained that the nature of being a musical theatre act means they don't consider their new album a collection of cover versions.
Initially, the band could not afford to pay Watts, who had been earning a regular salary from his gigs.
Songs such as "Sex Kills", "Sunny Sunday", "Borderline" and "The Magdalene Laundries" mixed social commentary and guitar-focused melodies for "a startling comeback".
In April and May 2011, Ansell played the role of the Prince/Beast in a national tour of Beauty and the Beast..
The music label Decca announced the official formation of the first Chinese male bel canto group named "Super Vocal” at the Decca 90 Anniversary Event.
Television appearances 1980 The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson (Episode 2405) 1980 The Mike Douglas Show 1980 Just Kidding 1981 That's Incredible 1983 The John Davidson Show Discography Recognition == References ==
On December 16, 2007, Tesolin sang with The Canadian Tenors at their Christmas Concert at the Oakville Centre for the Performing Arts.
La Voce is the ninth album by British tenor Russell Watson and his first resumption of a largely classical repertoire since overcoming brain cancer.
Reception Belgium's Side Line Magazine praised how the soundscape elements took the album further than typical horror film scores.
In this concert she sang ten songs never recorded or performed by her before, including "Senza Catene" (the Italian version of "Unchained Melody"), "Nelle Tue Mani" ("Now We Are Free", from the movie "Gladiator") and others.
The Pointer Sisters' second album, the 1974 release That's a Plenty, continued in the jazz and be-bop style of its predecessor but provided one exception that caused a great deal of interest: "Fairytale", written by Anita and Bonnie, was a country song that reached No.
On November 6, 2011, Tesolin's self-titled 3-track EP featuring "Dolce", "The Key", and "Now That I Know" was released.
Joe Satriani collaboration Joe Satriani played lead guitar on the tracks "Conflicted" and "Forgive Me".
While at university she began taking singing lessons and very quickly developed her outstanding voice.
In December 2012, Boe was featured as a guest artist for the holiday concert series of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, Orchestra at Temple Square and Bells on Temple Square.
In 2010, at the age of ten, she gained wide notice with her 2nd-place finish in the fifth season of America's Got Talent.
Classical crossover Classical crossover broadly encompasses both classical music that has become popularized and a wide variety of popular music forms performed in a classical manner or by classical artists.
Les Stentors are a 4-member vocal super group made up of operatic voices from all regions of France.
On 7 January 2017, Brightman presided over the naming ceremony as godmother of the Richard Branson's new 600-guest ship MV Seabourn Encore, the first of two new all-suite vessels for the company.
The Suite Background Shilkret conceived of the Genesis project while traveling with his friend Rex Schepp, perhaps around 1943.
Neal Evans Boyd (November 18, 1975 – June 10, 2018) was an American singer who developed an interest in opera after listening to the performances of the Three Tenors.
Being neither one thing nor the other, however, its audience was bound to be divided and it may be regarded as an experiment belonging to its time.
Nathan Smith of the Houston Press stated "Sex and Candy" was perfect crossover music, as its edgy, sexual lyrics were suitable for rock radio, while it was still "pussy enough for adult contemporary." Several media outlets compared "Sex and Candy" to the work of Nirvana with Jonah Bayer of The A.V.
In February 2007 Bawden co-wrote two tracks and recorded material with producer and songwriter, Audius Mtawarira (Delta Goodrem, Guy Sebastian, Paulini).
Discography White on Blue (2004) Secret Love (2011) Carousel (2019) Innocent Days (2023) References External links Crossfade discography at Discogs Crossfade at AllMusic
She subsequently signed a contract with Motown and this led to a brief, moderately successful, solo career.
Despite their contributions, folk metal remained little known with few representatives during the 1990s.
"Kaze No Toorimichi" was originally recorded by Joe Hisaishi, featuring the Suginami Children's Choir for the soundtrack to the 1988 film My Neighbor Totoro.
This album features duets with Barbra Streisand and Britain's Got Talent runner-up Susan Boyle, as well as twelve solo tracks.
He went on in 1944 to perform at the Teatro Lírico Cubano (Lyric Theater of Cuba), singing in La Plaza de la Catedral (The Cathedral Square), a zarzuela by Lecuona.
The album was recorded in June 2010 with the Roma Sinfonietta in the historic studio Forum Music Village, produced by Mike Hedges and was released on 22 November 2010 on Epic Records, his first release on this label.
After graduating from Sheffield University with a degree in music, she was offered a place to train with Steven Maughan at the Amsterdam Opera House and later, with Jesús León in London.
Also during the second part of the year, he performed in Croatia, Serbia, Italy, the US, Dubai, Switzerland and finally in Scandinavia.
Isobel Cooper (born 24 January 1975), known professionally as Izzy, is an English operatic pop soprano singer.
Together peaked at number 5 on the UK Albums Chart, which was followed by the duo releasing the album in the US and Canada on 30 October 2012.
Members Sabino Gaita was born on April 24, 1977, in Milan, Italy, where he studied music at the local conservatory.
In 2014, on the 10th anniversary of the publication of their first album, the group sold over 28 million albums worldwide, achieving more than 50 number one sales and receiving 160 gold records and platinum in over 33 countries.
Julian Kershaw) "Flight of the Bumblebee" (Rimsky-Korsakov) "Bohemian Rhapsody" (Freddie Mercury / Tolga Kashif) "The Gypsy Maid" (Giuseppe Verdi / arr.
With set design inspired by the album's cover art, the show featured music from the album, various cirque-type specialty acts, and pyrotechnics.
When the men faced the judges, Mel B asked them to explain the personnel change, and said it was like a second audition.
Their most popular release is their cover of the Game of Thrones theme, which has over 27 million views on YouTube.
In a 2011 interview with FEARnet, composer, Edward Douglas said: We've definitely put together something different for us (Midnight Syndicate), but we still maintain our identity.
After Corea's complaint against this policy before the administrative court was unsuccessful in 1996, members of the United States Congress, in a letter to the German government, denounced the ban as a violation of Corea's human rights.
Early life Paonessa began to take voice lessons at the young age of 10 and performed her first official recital at the age of 15.
She was dubbed "Australia's greatest operatic discovery." In the Grand Final, Bawden performed Léo Delibes' "Flower Duet" (Yanni's Aria version) which she translated to English from its French lyrics, after a judge requested that she sing in English.
During that time, Belle du Berry and David Lewis continued to work together, producing the album Quizz (2009) and performing together on stage.
Eurovision Song Contest 2011 On 27 January 2011, it was announced by the French broadcaster France Télévisions that Vassili would be the French entry at the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 to be held in Düsseldorf, Germany.
After the two groups performed at the National Concert Hall, Dublin, in April 2012, they recorded the album later in the year.
He has taught as a freelancer at the Royal Academy of Music and at the Rhythmic Conservatory in Copenhagen.
Background and release Gates of Delirium was written, produced, and mixed by Edward Douglas and Gavin Goszka.
2 on the Catalog Albums Chart, second only to Michael Bublé's 2011 Christmas album, on its second week of the season.
Craig Harvey of Movement Magazine compared the minimalistic piano lines on certain tracks to early John Carpenter scores.
Teenage music career In 2015, at thirteen years old, Lukyanets gained recognition in wider Europe when she performed a blind audition for The Voice Kids, the children's edition of The Voice of Germany, bringing one of the hosts to tears with her performance.
She was the winner of the 2013 Operalia competition and has featured in a number of productions staged at the Mariinsky Theatre, St.
Highlights of his career in 2004 and 2005 included his first appearances with English Touring Opera singing Ferrando in Così fan tutte, and at the Rossini in Wildbad Festival singing Conte Alberto in L'occasione fa il ladro.
Pzazz completed their national tour of Ireland, supporting The Celtic Tenors in late December 2005/January 2006.
On 11 July they performed at the 'Les Tombees de la Nuit' Festival in the Opera House in Rennes, Brittany.
For example, Renowned for Sound gave a somewhat negative review that awarded the album two and a half stars out of five.
However, according to the prosecutor, the case against Grachev was closed due to his active repentance.
They ended 2009 with their first Christmas special intimate show, Celebrate Christmas with Il Divo, which included a traditional repertoire of favourite festive songs with an orchestra and special guests in the United Kingdom, the United States, and Canada.
However, the album received little commercial notice, and Shocked parted ways with the label following an acrimonious lawsuit.
After Barcelona was selected to host the 1992 Summer Olympics, Mercury was approached to write a song as a theme for the forthcoming games.
On 27 February 2012, Church accepted £600,000 in damages and costs in settlement of a lawsuit arising out of the News International phone hacking scandal.
They received very good reviews both for the album and the concert in magazines such as The Wire, Rolling Stone among others.
Open Heart Symphony is a 1996 album by Spirit of the West, in collaboration with the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra.
He subsequently attended the California Institute of the Arts to study African and Indian music full-time.
However, one of the band members felt that only guitarists should be seen on stage, due to the group's reputation as a guitar-based heavy metal band.
The tambourine is a musical instrument in the percussion family consisting of a frame, often of wood or plastic, with pairs of small metal jingles, called "zills".
Roles Backline guitar technicians, audio technicians and stage crew set up and put away the backline equipment.
The choice of winding has considerable impact on the sound of the instrument, with certain winding styles often being preferred for certain musical genres.
Terminology The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians refers to this instrument as an "Electric bass guitar, usually with four heavy strings tuned E1'–A1'–D2–G2." It also defines bass as "Bass (iv).
The core is a wire which runs through the center of the string and is made of steel, nickel, or an alloy.
Instruments with a fingerboard are then played by adjusting the length of the vibrating portion of the strings.
The B-2 and C-2, introduced in 1949, allowed vibrato to be enabled or disabled on each manual separately.
In some cases, the session musician who recorded an instrumental part on the album may not be available for an entire tour.
Some Hammond staff thought Laurens Hammond was being irrational and autocratic towards Leslie, but Don Leslie later said it helped give his speakers publicity.
A less expensive alternative to gut strings is nylon strings; the higher strings are pure nylon, and the lower strings are nylon wrapped in wire, to add more mass to the string, slowing the vibration, and thus facilitating lower pitches.
Chord books are available including such chords, but many guitarists experiment to form their own distinctive chords.
The pah is played on the off-beats by higher-pitched instruments such as the clarinet, accordion or trombone.
Some rhythm sections combine electronic/digital instruments that are sequenced, pre-recorded backup tracks and live instruments (including electric, electronic and acoustic instruments).
The fingerboard, also called the fretboard, is a piece of wood embedded with metal frets that comprises the top of the neck.
The twangy sitar-like tone comes from a carefully designed and contoured bridge surface adding the necessary buzz to the guitar strings.
In the late 1700s, the tambourine had a surge in popularity in England, with some composers of salon music writing parts for tambourine, indicating as many as 30 different playing strokes or moves.
The company has a dedicated Church Advisory Team that provides a consultancy, so churches can choose the most appropriate instrument.
While other instrument solos such as guitar solos are typically accompanied by the other rhythm section instruments (e.g., bass guitar and electric guitar), for most drum solos, all the other band members stop playing so that all of the audience's focus will be on the drummer.
A drum fill is used to "fill in" the space between the end of one verse and the beginning of another verse or chorus.
A small number of players, such as Stanley Clarke and John Patitucci, have achieved virtuosic skill on both instruments.
A minor thirteenth chord (A−13, Amin13, Ami13, or Am13) contains the notes: root, ♭3, 5, 7, (9), (11), 13.
The sensor-embedded pads and plastic cymbals are mounted on a stand or on multiple stands, so that the drummer can put them in the desired position.
Digital accordions have a sensor that detects bellows pressure, which affects the loudness, sustain, and in some instruments, the timbre of the synthesized or sampled sound.
In a funk song in which the bassline already consists of percussive slapping and popping, a bass run may consist of a virtuosic display of rapid slapping and popping techniques combined with techniques such as glissando, note-bending, and harmonics.
For this soloist, the comper may use open voicings, omit passing chords, and try to play mainly in the space left by the soloist.
The Roland VK-7, introduced in 1997, attempted to emulate the sound of a Hammond using digital signal processing technology.
Cristofori's great success was designing a stringed keyboard instrument in which the notes are struck by a hammer.
During a bass run, the main vocal or melody line usually stops, and in some cases, the percussion or drums may also stop.
The exception is well-known progressions (e.g., 12 bar blues) and jazz standards such as "I Got Rhythm", known colloquially as "rhythm changes".
In this sense, it may actually be considered as an acoustic bass guitar, for it shares the same low-end range.
Motown singers and musicians often grew up with gospel music, and they carried the tambourine into pop performance.
In contrast, all of the strings are fingered for a barre chord, which requires greater technique to be allowed to ring freely.
At their simplest, these consist of passive components, such as potentiometers and capacitors, but may also include specialized integrated circuits or other active components requiring batteries for power, for preamplification and signal processing, or even for electronic tuning.
6" (on Fine Line) D'Angelo, on the 2014 album Black Messiah, on songs including "Another Life" and "The Charade".
Most luthiers and experienced players agree that a good solid top (as opposed to laminated or plywood) is the most important factor in the tone of the guitar.
A floating or trapeze tailpiece (similar to a violin's) fastens to the body at the base of the guitar.
In music for stringed instruments, especially guitar, an open chord (open-position chord) is a chord that includes one or more strings that are not fingered.
It became prized for its distinctive sound, however, and gained a place in several musical styles (most notably blues and bluegrass), and retains a niche well after the proliferation of electric amplification.
Early EUBs used magnetic pickups similar to those in electric guitars, or percussive magnetic diaghram pickups.
The electric bass was much easier to amplify to stadium-filling volumes using large bass speaker cabinets and amplifiers than an upright bass.
Some of the earliest commercial polyphonic synthesizers were created by the American engineer Tom Oberheim, such as the OB-X (1979).
Chord-playing musicians (e.g., those playing guitar, piano, Hammond organ, etc.) can improvise chords, "fill-in" melodic lines and solos from the chord chart.
Neck-through instruments extend the neck to the length of the instrument so that it forms the center of the body.
Having professional backline gear means that the sound engineers do not have to deal with modest-quality amplifiers.
The piano and harp represent the first method, where each note on the instrument has its own string or course of multiple strings tuned to the same note.
In unaccompanied solo performance, basslines may simply be played in the lower register of any instrument while melody and/or further accompaniment is provided in the middle or upper register.
Some players use their more nimble fingertips to play fast-moving solo passages or to pluck lightly for quiet tunes.
It was designed to be used in conjunction with Farfisa's amplifiers, and had a multi-pin cable that connected the controls of the accordion, with the controls of the amplifier, or the F/AR, an external reverb, preamp and power supply unit.
Many travelling musicians prefer not to transport their own gear across borders and continents for fear of damage or customs hassles.
External sound modules Many 2010s-era and 2020s-era digital accordions have an internal sound module.
A piano is a keyboard instrument that produces sound when its keys are pressed, activating an action mechanism where hammers strike strings.
At low frequencies, which depend on the size of the box, the chamber acts like a Helmholtz resonator, increasing or decreasing the volume of the sound again depending on whether the air in the box moves in phase or out of phase with the strings.
Most digital accordions need to be plugged into a keyboard amplifier or PA system to hear their sounds.
Tambourines were used in ancient Egypt, where they were known as the tof to the Hebrews, who mainly used the instrument in religious contexts.
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic/acid rock drum playing, heavy metal drummers play with emphatic beats, and overall loudness using an aggressive performing style.
The system is flexible and can be embellished to include more information (such as chord color or to denote a bass note in an inverted chord).
A solo singer can accompany themself by playing guitar or piano while they sing, and in some rare cases, a solo singer can even accompany themself just using their voice and body (e.g., Bobby McFerrin).
It is held in the hand and can be played in numerous ways, from stroking or shaking the jingles to striking it sharply with hand.
Montgomery was also possibly the first to record with the electric bass, in a session on July 2, 1953, with the Art Farmer Septet.
A standard cabinet used by bassists during this era was the heavy 8x10 cabinet, which contains eight ten-inch speakers.
Riq The riq (also spelled riqq or rik) is a type of tambourine used as a traditional instrument in Arabic music.
These hybrids also require an amplifier and sound module, of which some models have said module mounted inside the acoustic instrument along with the reeds.
However, in a jazz context, particularly in music from the 1940s bebop era and later decades, dominant chords were no longer treated as "unstable" chords.
A trigger pad could contain up to four independent sensors, each of them capable of sending information describing the timing and dynamic intensity of a stroke to the drum module/brain.
Assembly The steel-string acoustic guitar evolved from the gut-string Romantic guitar, and because steel strings have higher tension, heavier construction is required overall.
Materials for necks are selected for dimensional stability and rigidity, and some allege that they influence tone.
By 1957, the Precision Bass began to resemble the Fender Stratocaster with the body edges beveled for comfort and the pickup changed to a separate halves split coil design.
Some guitars (such as Steinbergers) do not have headstocks at all, in which case the tuning machines are located elsewhere, either on the body or the bridge.
The body is large and the waist of the guitar is not as pronounced as the auditorium and grand concert bodies.
Synthesizer-like instruments emerged in the United States in the mid-20th century with instruments such as the RCA Mark II, which was controlled with punch cards and used hundreds of vacuum tubes.
Weinstein observes that the wide array of sonic effects available to metal drummers enables the "rhythmic pattern to take on a complexity within its elemental drive and insistency".
The 1935 sales catalog for Tutmarc's company Audiovox featured the "Model 736 Bass Fiddle", a solid body electric bass guitar with four strings, a 30+1⁄2-inch (775-millimetre) scale length, and a single pickup.
Computer based software, such as Modartt's 2006 Pianoteq, can be used to manipulate the MIDI stream in real time or subsequently to edit it.
The first commercial electronic drum was the Pollard Syndrum, released by Pollard Industries in 1976.
With a capo on the first fret, the guitarist can finger the shape of the open A minor chord, but the result will be a B♭ minor chord.
Martin: steel strings and the increasing of the guitar top area; the popularity of Martin's larger "dreadnought" body size among acoustic performers is related to the greater sound volume produced.
The most common type is often called a flat top guitar, to distinguish it from the more specialized archtop guitar and other variations.
Roles In modern rock music, a rhythm guitarist specializes in rhythmic and chordal playing (as opposed to the melodic guitar solos and lead melody lines played by the lead guitar), often repeating quaver (eighth-note), half note or whole note chords.
Fills vary from a simple few strokes on a tom or snare to a distinctive rhythm played on the hi-hat, to sequences several bars long that are short virtuosic drum solos.
The tambourines of this era often had a circular hole in the frame for the thumb, as one of the moves was to spin the tambourine on the upright thumb.
Musical roles The drums and bass both supply a rhythmic pulse for the music, and the bass instrument supplies a harmonic foundation with a bassline.
For example, an electric guitar can be purchased in a six-string model (the most common model) or in seven- or twelve-string formats.
A sequence of several chords in a single measure is notated by underlining the desired chord numbers.
This was again at the request of bassist Anthony Jackson, who later asked Vinnie Fodera and Joey Lauricella of Fodera Guitars to build several instruments according to his ideas.
Configuration In addition to the six playing strings, most electric sitars have sympathetic strings, typically located on the left side of the instrument (though some do not have these).
The typical locations for inlay are on the fretboard, headstock, and on acoustic guitars around the soundhole, known as the rosette.
In sample-based synthesis, instead of sounds being created by synthesizers, samples (digital recordings of sounds) are played back and shaped with components such as filters, envelopes and LFOs.
Note that this is not a complete list of compound intervals, only those that are commonly used in jazz chords.
Death metal uses extremely fast drumming, often with rapid double bass drumming and "wall of sound"–style blast beats.
These resonance interactions attenuate or amplify the sound at different frequencies, boosting or damping various harmonic tones.
Pet Shop Boys used an offstage keyboardist at a 1991 concert Avenged Sevenfold uses offstage keyboards.
The vibration of the body of the instrument and the enclosed hollow or chamber make the vibration of the string more audible to the performer and audience.
Lyres with wooden bodies and strings used for plucking or playing with a bow represent key instruments that point towards later harps and violin-type instruments; moreover, Indian instruments from 500 BC have been discovered with anything from 7 to 21 strings.
Although called a contrabass guitar, the fact that it is tuned only an octave lower than a normal guitar makes it—in modern terminology—more an acoustic bass guitar than a contrabass instrument.
In jazz, comping (an abbreviation of accompaniment; or possibly from the verb, to "complement") is the chords, rhythms, and countermelodies that bassists, keyboard players (piano or organ), guitar players, or drummers use to support a musician's improvised solo or melody lines.
The bass guitar, also known as the electric bass, is the lowest-pitched member of the guitar family.
Drums Judas Priest used an offstage drummer playing electronic drums and triggering samples, while the official drummer played onstage.
Auditorium – Similar in dimensions to the dreadnought body shape, but with a much more pronounced waist.
They theorize that a decrease in the content of hemicellulose, crystallization of cellulose, and changes to lignin over time all result in its wood gaining better resonating properties.
The term rhythm section may also refer to the instruments in this group (named collectively the "rhythm section instruments").
However, the electric bass made a big impact on jazz in the 1970s, with the advent of jazz rock and jazz fusion.
Simmons drums are often viewed somewhat nostalgically by those who began to experiment with these early forays into electronic drums and percussion.
Like other electronic instruments, such as synthesizer keyboards, digital accordions or their sound modules are usually plugged into a keyboard amplifier and speaker or a PA system for live shows (or directly into a mixing board for recording).
Development of the vibrato system took place during the early 1940s, and was put into production shortly after the end of World War II.
The Nashville Number System is a trick that musicians use to figure out chord progressions on the fly.
Roles Some offstage performers are hired solely to play one or more instruments (e.g., synthesizer, rhythm guitar, percussion).
For a period, the Moog was banned from use in union work, a restriction negotiated by the American Federation of Musicians (AFM).
In 1978, Sequential Circuits released the Prophet-5, which used microprocessors to allow users to store sounds for the first time.
While the notes of a G7 chord are G–B–D–F, jazz often omits the fifth of the chord—and even the root if playing in a group.
Many exotic arrangements and connectors exist that support features such as midi and hexaphonic pickups.
Common extensions beyond these standard configurations include: Effects cymbals, particularly splash cymbals and china cymbals Double bass drums.
For that reason, ebony wood is better, but because of high use, ebony has become rare and extremely expensive.
The electric bass player can play all of the same types of bass lines played by its upright bass cousin.
The last B-3 and C-3 organs manufactured were built from leftover parts, and are not considered as good as earlier models.
To achieve a stylistic correct sound the accompaniment pattern should remind or imitate the original version using similar rhythms and patterns.
In 1979, Elka, an Italian organ and accordion company, developed the Elkavox and the Iorio Accorgan, both of which are electronic accordions.
Black metal, death metal and some "mainstream metal" bands "all depend upon double-kicks and blast beats".
In a heavy metal song where the bassist was ordinarily playing low notes without overdrive to accompany, for a solo, they may turn on a fuzz bass pedal and use a wah pedal to create a more pronounced tone (an approach used by Cliff Burton), and then play an upper register riff or scale run.
Modern pop, rock and jazz band rhythm sections typically consist of a drummer, a bass player, and one or more players of chordal instruments (e.g., a pianist, guitarist, etc.).
Just as with simple chords, the numbers refer to scale degrees; specifically, the scale degree number used for the bass note is that of the note's position in the tonic's scale (as opposed to, for example, that of its position in the scale of the chord being played).
In most traditional and popular music styles, the bass player is expected to be able to improvise a bassline which they base in the chord progression of a song.
In jazz organ trios, a Hammond organ player performs the basslines using the bass pedalboard or their lower manual, along with a drummer and a saxophonist.
As well, for offstage backup singers, they may be provided with a teleprompter video screen, which scrolls the lyrics down the screen.
The Persian poet Rudaki, who widely used names of the musical instruments in his poems, mentions the daf and the tambourine (taboorak) in a Ruba'i: A common use of tambourine (Daf) is by Albanians.
Goïlav, Yoan, La contrebasse: Une philosophie du jeu, histoire, pédagogie, technique / The Double Bass: A Philosophy of Playing, History, Pedagogy, Technique.
Fahey contemporary Robbie Basho added elements of Indian classical music and Leo Kottke used a Faheyesque approach to make the first solo steel-string guitar "hit" record.
Side snares are used, similarly to effects cymbals, when an additional and different sound is required.
Strap buttons are sometimes replaced with "strap locks", which connect the guitar to the strap more securely.
External pedals can be plugged into the Scandalli EWA, such as a sustain pedal, or pedals to control transposition or portamento/pitch glide effects.
A minor eleventh chord (A−11, Amin11, Ami11, or Am11) contains the notes: root, ♭3, 5, 7, (9), 11, (13).
As well, jazz compers may use altered chords that contain flattened or sharpened 5ths, sharp 11ths, flat or sharpened 9ths, and flat 13ths for some songs or soloists.
The Beach Boys (in "All I Wanna Do") Steely Dan (in "Do It Again") The 1971 album Somethin' Else recorded by Danny Davis and the Nashville Brass prominently featured an electric sitar, a first for the country music industry.
It is an electronically amplified version of the double bass that has a minimal or 'skeleton' body, which greatly reduces the size and weight of the instrument.
Farfisa made reed organs using pressurized air (e.g., Microrgan and Pianorgan) and developed the first transistor accordion, the Farfisa Transicord.
Torres' design greatly improved the volume, tone, and projection of the instrument, and it has remained essentially unchanged since.
If one wire vibrates out of synchronization with the other, they subtract from each other and produce a softer tone of longer duration.
So if the song was in G minor, the key would be listed as B♭ major, and G minor chords would appear as 6−.
Notation and improvisation The accompaniment instrumentalists and/or singers can be provided with a fully notated accompaniment part written or printed on sheet music.
With an amplifier and equalization devices, a bass player can boost the low frequencies, evening out the frequency response.
Modern jazz comping goes with more space, mostly on rhythmical interesting moments and it don't have the continual playing of trad.
In music festivals with outdoor temporary stages, the backline equipment may have to be transported to a locked, climate-controlled storage area at the end of each day, to protect it from theft, vandalism and the weather.
Some instruments have chin switches to change registers, programs, or act like a sustain pedal and provide other functions without taking the hands off the instrument.
On organs, the bass line is typically played using the pedal keyboard and massive 16' and 32' bass pipes.
Six strings The six-string double bass has both a high C and a low B, making it very useful, and it is becoming more practical after several updates.
Like acoustic drums, the pads are struck by drum sticks and they are played in a similar manner to an acoustic drum kit, albeit with some differences in the drumming experience.
Electric guitar design and construction varies greatly in the shape of the body and the configuration of the neck, bridge, and pickups.
Most of the older 5-course guitars were still in use but were also being modified to a six-coursed acoustical guitar.
The Nashville Number System is a method of transcribing music by denoting the scale degree on which a chord is built.
Vihuelas were string instruments that were commonly seen in the 16th century during the Renaissance.
The earliest known existing concertos are by Carl Ditters von Dittersdorf, who composed two concertos for the double bass and a Sinfonia Concertante for viola and double bass.
These expensive, custom-tailored instruments, as used by Phil Lesh, Jack Casady, and Stanley Clarke, featured unique designs, premium hand-finished wood bodies, and innovative construction techniques such as multi-laminate neck-through-body construction and graphite necks.
Classical and flamenco guitars historically used gut strings, but these have been superseded by polymer materials, such as nylon and fluorocarbon.
This tradition developed from the origins of New Orleans music in marching bands, which used instruments that could be carried on harnesses or with straps.
Some of the most important varieties are the classical guitar (Spanish Guitar/Nylon-stringed), steel-string acoustic guitar and Colombian tiple.
It may have a small amplifier and small loudspeakers incorporated so that it can be used at jam sessions without plugging into a PA system.
This allows the sound engineer to use a higher overall volume for the drum kit by reducing the number of "active" mics which could produce unwanted feedback at any one time.
Electronic drums are an electronic musical instrument that replicates the sound and appearance of a drum kit or other percussion instruments.
In popular music and traditional music, the accompaniment parts typically provide the "beat" for the music and outline the chord progression of the song or instrumental piece.
Outside of the United States, they were manufactured in greater numbers than the consoles, and hence were more widely used.
Challenges For offstage musicians and singers, playing and/or singing in tune and in time with the onstage performers can be challenging, since the offstage musicians are not in the same location as the onstage performers.
If a soloist starts implying a certain style or feel in his solo, whether this is Afro-Cuban music or hard-driving swing, the entire rhythm section may shift to this style to support him.
The Clash (in "Armagideon Time" and "Charlie Don't Surf") Eddie Van Halen (on "Ain't Talkin' 'bout Love" and "Primary") Rory Gallagher (in "Philby") Gary Wilson, on the 1977 album You Think You Really Know Me.
The introduction of the double-coil humbucker in the mid-1950s solved this problem through the use of two coils, one of which is wired in opposite polarity to cancel or "buck" stray fields.
Jaco Pastorius is considered to be one of the most well known exponents of jazz on the electric bass, through his work with Weather Report, Joni Mitchell, and Pat Metheny among others.
A few models, such as the Jerry Jones "Baby" sitar, lack both sympathetic and drone strings, while still retaining the distinctive buzz bridge.
It is mostly used in Carnatic music concerts (South Indian classical music) as a supporting instrument for the mridangam.
Other strings When composers instruct string section players (violin, viola, cello, double bass) to play double stops (two notes at once) or triple stops (three notes at once), they often include one or two open strings in the chord voicing, unless they are writing for a virtuoso soloist.
In jazz chords and theory, most triads that appear in lead sheets or fake books can have sevenths added to them, using the performer's discretion and ear.
Jazz chords are chords, chord voicings and chord symbols that jazz musicians commonly use in composition, improvisation, and harmony.
Propellerhead's Reason, released in 2000, introduced an array of recognizable virtual studio equipment.
Some guitarists, bassists and other stringed instrumentalists read accompaniment parts using tabulature (or "tab"), a notation system which shows the musician where on the instrument to play the notes.
45, ISBN 0-19-510232-0 Santerre, Joe (2001), Slap Bass Lines, ISBN 0-634-02144-3 External links "Bass Lines" (PDF).
Scale degrees and major chords The Nashville Number System (also referred to as NNS) is similar to (movable-do) Solfège, which uses "Do Re Mi Fa Sol La Tí" to represent the seven scale degrees of the Major scale.
watch me for the 2" The Nashville Number Fake Book by Trevor de Clercq – This book includes a detailed overview of the Nashville Number System as well as complete charts for 200 acclaimed country songs.
This voicing omits both the root and the perfect fifth (G) and raises the major ninth (D) by an octave.
Accompaniment is the musical part which provides the rhythmic and/or harmonic support for the melody or main themes of a song or instrumental piece.
Some bassists use both fretted and fretless basses in performances, according to the style of repertoire they are performing.
Motion capture kit Aerodrums is a motion capture system that allows a drummer to perform without a kit physically present.
Electronic amplification Most string instruments can be fitted with piezoelectric or magnetic pickups to convert the string's vibrations into an electrical signal that is amplified and then converted back into sound by loudspeakers.
Performance styles Many classical music composers, including Haydn, Mozart, Schubert and Beethoven, composed for the fortepiano, a rather different instrument than the modern piano.
Turning the truss rod clockwise tightens it, counteracting the tension of the strings and straightening the neck or creating a backward bow.
Although it is possible to play the chords as described here literally, it is possible to use different orderings of the same notes, known as a voicings, or even by omitting certain notes.
ISBN 9781457101441 External links Jazz Guitar Chord Dictionary Comprehensive overview of jazz chords for guitar The Jazz Resource Jazz chords and theory
Some songs lend themselves to another type of variation: the pedal point, in which the bassist holds or repeats a single note (often the tonic or the dominant) under the chord changes.
Gitterns (small, plucked guitars), were the first small, guitar-like instruments created during the Spanish Middle Ages with a round back, like that of the lute.
The motivation for this may be to reduce weight, to achieve a semi-acoustic tone (see below) or both.
They can be mounted, for example on a stand as part of a drum kit (and played with drum sticks), or they can be held in the hand and played by tapping, hitting, or shaking the instrument.
A 1980s-era dance pop band might be backed up by a rhythm section of a synth bass, electronic drums (or drum machine) and various synthesizer keyboards.
Even though electronic keyboards or organs were the standard instruments used to create sustained "pads" of sound (e.g., held backing chords) for ballads, with the introduction of digital delay pedals and other modern effects, electric guitars could produce similar "pads" or "walls of sound".
Many of the chordal alterations used in jazz are derived from minor scale modes, as opposed to the major scale modes.
A CCTV system may be set up, with cameras pointing at the stage, and TV monitors in the offstage performer area; this way, the offstage performers can see cues (head nods, hand signals) made by the lead singer or bandleader onstage.
Broadway musicals such as Jersey Boys and Rock of Ages use hidden backstage singers in vocal booths to sing harmony vocals to fill out the sound, without "crowding the stage" with extra performers.
Proponents of the use of German bow claim that the German bow is easier to use for heavy strokes that require a lot of power.
Comping musicians must know many different types of chord voicings so that they can match the mood the soloist is trying to create.
Sympathetic strings Some instruments are employed with sympathetic strings—which are additional strings not meant to be plucked.
Nepal also has a variety of tambourines, going by the names daanf, damphu (Nepali: डम्फू), hring, and khaijadi (Nepali: खैंजडी).
Nomenclature Intervals Each chord is described as a series of intervallic relationships to the root of the chord.
In theory any instrument or instruments can provide a steady rhythm: for example, in the trio led by Jimmy Giuffre the late 1950s, the clarinet, valve trombone and guitar all switched between lead and supporting roles.
The degree to which the choice of woods and other materials in the solid-guitar body (3) affects the sonic character of the amplified signal is disputed.
Some cyber goths also wear gas masks or (in what appears to be a kind of medical fetish) shiny PVC doctors' masks.
During 2008 The Teenagers toured the globe (25 countries, 100 cities) to promote their debut album "Reality Check".
If there isn't yet, then it is debuting right here thanks to a lady who looks like Marianne Faithfull's twin sister with the voice of Carly Simon." James Hamilton from Music Week's RM Dance Update deemed it "mournful" and "husky" in his weekly dance column.
The orchestra hit was popularized in Afrika Bambaataa's "Planet Rock" (1982) and used soon after in Kate Bush's "The Dreaming" (1982).
Closure TREAC was switched off in 1962, and replaced with the Royal Radar Establishment Automatic Computer (RREAC, the UK's first solid state computer).
The musical template for vaporwave came from Eccojams and Ferraro's Far Side Virtual (October 2011).
Deep Purple's Jon Lord fed the signal from his Hammond through a Gibson Ring Modulator unit live on stage, which he described in 1989.
The single's history is unique in itself, having been released twice and with new mixes, as well as a 16-week climb to number one on the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart, reaching the top spot on June 4, 2005, giving Tucker her sixth chart topper.
Jeremy Oceans - «Christmas Time» (Instrumental) Alesso & Armin van Buuren - «Leave a Little Love» (Club Mix) Armin van Buuren feat.
Background and composition A "politically-charged track", "P.O.W.A" features lyrical references to Rihanna, Madonna, Mariah Carey, Ariana Grande, Barack Obama, Osama Bin Laden and the Spice Girls.
Svidt featured the song in his column of the week's 12 best new songs, for Gaffa, during the third week of March 2019.
AAF and OMF sequences embed audio and video files with their metadata; when opened by the destination application, session structure is rebuilt with the original clip placement, edits, and basic track and clip automation.
Developments During the 1990s, compilation series such as Chill Out or Die popularized ambient techno and house.
The song was played at an Avicii tribute concert and was confirmed to be produced by Guetta, Afrojack and Avicii with vocals from British singer Amanda Wilson.
Concurrently, in the 1980s, numerous house musicians drew inspiration from jazz, especially post-bop and jazz-funk.
"Diggy Down", the first single from Inna, scored the singer's third number one single in her native country, while the follow-up "Bop Bop" reached number two.
It was released in 2005 as a double disc album, the first disc being mixed by Tall Paul and the second disc being mixed by Benny Benassi.
Bernard de Clairvaux Church, a historic building built in 1133 in the town of Sacramenia, Segovia, Spain.
The album's lead single "Dancing On My Own", released a few weeks prior to the album's release, became a hit single worldwide, and brought her a 53rd Grammy Awards nomination for the category of Best Dance Recording.
Stockhausen achieved a controversial success, and created a work that has reinvigorated his electronic music".
These movements are translated into MIDI signals, which can control a variety of sound parameters in real-time.
(the acronym for Underground Dance Artists United For Life), with vocals performed by singer Barbara Tucker.
Written by Martin and David Harrow, it received critical acclaim and is known to be one of her most notable singles.
They then released more singles over the next few years and their self-titled debut album to critical acclaim.
Albums Studio albums Compilation albums Other albums Extended plays Singles As lead artist Notes as Disco Citizens as Sitvac == References ==
Their following single "Roses" reached the top ten on the Billboard Hot 100, while "Don't Let Me Down" became their first top five single.
Nyege Nyege is an annual music festival held in Jinja, Uganda, celebrating African underground music,particularly electronic genres and the cultural diversity within.
In its prime, BLUDHONEY's focus on vinyl and cassettes brought a professional edge to the grassroots movement.
In 2016, Palomo described labels like "chillwave" and "vaporwave" as "arbitrary" and that he "couldn't have been more happy" about the "chillwave" descriptor falling out of favor.
In February 2008, Atlas Sound (Bradford Cox of Deerhunter) debuted with the album Let the Blind Lead Those Who Can See but Cannot Feel.
Lyrics were generally more optimistic, dealing with more traditional subject matter for pop music such as romance, escapism and aspiration.
One of the first products dedicated to music was the Bode Ring Modulator developed in 1961 by Harald Bode.
Ramirez Vocal Club Mix) – 3:33 Moby - "Go" (Trentemoller Remix) – 4:35 TV Rock featuring Seany B - "Flaunt It" (Dirty South Remix) – 4:16 Chris Lake featuring Laura V.
These were bought from such specialist import record shops such as Moondogs in East Ham, and Contempo record shop at 42 Hanway Street in the West end of London, owned by John Abbey, founder of Blues & Soul magazine.
See also List of music software References External links The Arduinome Software on Sourceforge FlipMu (Bricktable's) Arduinome building guide — original Arduinome firmware authors
Discwoman is a New York-based collective, booking agency, and event platform representing and showcasing women and non-binary artists in the electronic music community.
The squat party community embraces autonomous, anarchistic principles, refusing to recognize the right of outside authorities to decide when and how people should congregate.
Sharon den Adel - «In and Out of Love» (2017 Revision) Armin van Buuren - «Orbion» (2017 Revision) Armin van Buuren vs Human Resource - «Dominator» (Festival Mix) Armin van Buuren feat.
The singer also stated that she was able to disapprove something which she did not like without hurting his feelings.
allowed them to meet and start collaborating with Earth, Wind and Fire, leading to a session with Maurice White and Stevie Wonder on the Have Fun album.
The contemporary role involves creating a seamless mix of music, generally using two turntables or a digital controller, intended for an audience at a club or dance party.
Their song "Whistle" is featured in the French film Blue is the Warmest Colour (2013) during Adèle's birthday party scene.
Beat slicing is the process of using computer software to cut an audio file of a drumloop in smaller sections, separating different drumhits.
Remixes "Upperworld" – Syntec "Ich sehe dich" – Such A Surge "L 'Oasis" – La Floa Maldita "Good God (The Man)" – Korn "Und ...
Characteristics Kosmische Musik was often instrumental and characterized by "spacy", ambient soundscapes.
The album was recorded on a laptop computer, mostly in Lagin's living room, and with some sessions taking place in practice rooms.
An AI cover of "Pahina" by Cup of Joe hit the Spotify Philippines' Viral Songs chart, with a negative reaction from one of the band members, and has since been removed from Spotify.
Marimba Lumina is a MIDI controller developed by American engineer Don Buchla that lets a musician play music via a control surface based on the layout of a marimba.
The user could program tempos and tempo changes in song mode, and set the volume and pitch of each sound.
Producer Pete Namlook released a prodigious amount of music in the genre, starting the label Fax in 1992 and becoming a "spiritual leader" of the movement.
The first releases under the name Schizo, and later Heldon, were self-produced and self-distributed.
Albums Studio albums Extended plays Singles As lead artist As featured artist Promotional singles Music videos References External links Amanda Ghost at AllMusic Amanda Ghost discography at Discogs Amanda Ghost discography at MusicBrainz
"Hold On (If You Believe in Love)" is a song by Dutch dance music vocalist CB Milton, released in 1994, by Byte, BMG and Logic Records, as the fourth single from Milton's debut album, It's My Loving Thing (1994).
This was Tucker's fifth of seven number-one singles she placed on the Billboard Dance Club Songs, reaching the top spot on March 11, 2000.
The more expensive ones attempt to emulate the physical properties of acoustic cymbals of various types (e.g.: hi-hat, crash, ride), while the simpler, less expensive cymbal pads are less realistic.
McLaren had experimented with this technique for creating notes through patterns of stripes on the soundtrack area of the film in the 1950s, working with Evelyn Lambart.
Hunt is generally regarded as being at the forefront of the post-2020 drum and bass revival, and has been cited as an inspiration by Piri.
Since 2000, despite having limited commercial success, Billie has continued to produce and release studio albums and singles worldwide.
With the Monomachine we have tried creating a synthesizer free from prejudice, and focus on what actually spurs creativity without letting technology stand in your way.
Track listing UK Version "Monster" – 2:15 "City Approach" – 4:28 "Mmmnn" – 3:53 "Your Mama" – 4:12 "This Is It" – 5:14 "Maybe" – 7:05 "Open Mouthed" – 5:20 "3am Gherkin" – 6:36 "Just Show Me" – 3:31 "Killed By Sweets" – 4:25 "Kenny" – 3:55 "Anger Thy Neighbour" – 6:56 == References ==
The discography of American electronic dance music producer and DJ Slushii consists of four studio albums, three extended plays, sixteen singles, thirty remixes and three music videos.
Fully weighted keys are designed to replicate the weight and playing action of acoustic piano hammer-action keys.
Operating systems and hardware requirements Win32 Windows 2000 or later, CPU 500 MHz, RAM 4 MB, NINJAM v0.06 OS X OS X 10.3 or later, G3.
English singer and songwriter FKA Twigs has released four studio albums, one mixtape, three extended plays, eighteen singles (including two as a featured artist), one promotional single and eighteen music videos.
Features The Drumtraks features 13 percussion voices: bass drum, snare, snare rim, toms 1 and 2, crash and ride cymbal, open and closed hi-hat, handclaps, tambourine, cowbell, and cabasa.
Since the release of the album One Love (2009), Guetta has revealed his desire to produce singles for other artists.
Live mixing Drop mixing is a transition technique which involves a sudden switch from one song to the next.
Kris Kiss) 2018: You Lift Me Up 2018: Scream Out Loud Remixes 2004: Anita Kelsey - "Every Kiss" 2005: Funkerman and Raf - "Rule The Night" 2005: Erick E - "Boogie Down" 2005: Funkerman - "The One" 2006: Camille Jones - "The Creeps" 2006: Erick E Feat.
Cocosuma gained some fame in 2005 with the French mini-series Clara Sheller, in which their song The Servant played through the end credits.
The early sound of synthpop was "eerie, sterile, and vaguely menacing", but more commercially orientated bands like Duran Duran adopted dance beats to produce a catchier and warmer sound.
In 2016, Moldover released the studio album 4 Track which included the playable packaging Voice Crusher.
An Arduinome is a MIDI controller device that mimics the Monome using the Arduino physical computing platform.
The longest-running rare groove radio show in the United States is Soul Power on WWOZ 90.7 FM (New Orleans) and wwoz.org, and is hosted by DJ Soul Sister, who is cited as the "queen of rare groove".
Perhaps the most unlikely adopters were Justin Broadrick and Mick Harris, previously known for their invention of the grindcore style of extreme metal, while in Napalm Death.
Team Remix) 2021 Becky Hill and David Guetta – "Remember" (Benny Benassi Remix) David Solomon featuring Ryan Tedder – "Learn To Love Me" (Benny Benassi Remix) 2022 Telykast and Sam Grey - "Unbreakable" (Benny Benassi Remix) Twice – "The Feels" (Benny Benassi Remix) With Benassi Bros.
Recordings, was the first psy-chill album ever to make it to number 1 in the German charts, where it remained Number 1 for 8 weeks and stayed in the Top 10 for an additional 12 weeks.
4X built on the achievements of the earlier Halaphone, capable of timbre alteration and sound localization.
The discography of American DJ duo the Chainsmokers consists of five studio albums, one soundtrack, six extended plays, forty three singles, three promotional singles, thirty-three music videos, and thirty-eight remixes.
I originally showed Joel this little clip I made of my studio and suggested we do a bigger version of his mansion.
This process is the most prominent in genres of drum and bass, hip-hop, glitch, and IDM, the two latter being notorious for their prominent artists rearranging and altering beats in extreme ways.
Musicians such as Vangelis, Burial, and Aphex Twin, as well as East Asian cinema and anime, are common inspirations within dreampunk.
Andy Horsfield and James Todd struck up a friendship and found a way of making a little cash from their passion by selling bootleg tape recordings of live DJ sets to local record shops.
Siân Pattenden from Smash Hits wrote, "This record is more stormin' than a hurricane and has whirlwinds of plinkety plonky syntherisms to boot.
References External links Sonata pian' e forte: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project
It comes from the 1969 track "Amen, Brother" by the American soul group the Winstons, released as the B-side of the 1969 single "Color Him Father".
References External links The Fairest of Roses | Frederik Magle – Wise Music Classical (Edition Wilhelm Hansen) Christmas fanfare for two trumpets and organ – Den yndigste rose (magle.dk)
Variations can also include 3 or 2 fingers, and generally it is recommended for beginners to start with 2 fingers and work their way to 4.
Global Underground 010: Danny Tenaglia, Athens is a DJ mix album in the Global Underground series, compiled and mixed by Danny Tenaglia.
In April 2017, they released their debut studio album Memories...Do Not Open, which debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 and was certified platinum after five months.
Biography Deluxe was discovered by the band Chinese Man in 2007 in Aix-en-Provence, where they were performing on public streets.
A bass drop in this genre may be done using electronic drums with a sample pad triggered by the drummer or a backing track, either of which is sent to a venue's PA system.
The first versions were created with the technology then available, using discrete components and transistors.
"Fucking Boyfriend" (“F**king Boyfriend” for radio and during its chart run) is the name of a song by American duo the Bird and the Bee.
would have to become a musical instrument and, on the other hand, through its manipulation, influence all the characteristics of the sounds.
Le Corbusier came up with the title Poème électronique, saying he wanted to create a "poem in a bottle".
It sold over 100,000 copies and was certified gold in the UK, and spawned the hit singles "Saltwater" and "Don't Give Up".
That live version played between 2002 and 2011, that mixed 1975 and 1991 versions, included the Sellafield 2 intro (they've used it since 1997, until 2011), where Florian says through a vocoder: "Sellafield 2 will produce 7.5 tons of plutonium every year.
"It's Alright, I Feel It!" (Roni Size Remix) – 13:14 CD single, US (1997) "It's Alright, I Feel It!" (Edit) – 4:05 "It's Alright, I Feel It!" (M.A.W.
Some other tangibles are cubes, with fiducials attached to several sides, allowing those tangibles to serve multiple functions.
It uses the programming language Racket (a dialect of Scheme/Lisp) to work with a games engine with built-in 3D graphics, physics simulation and sound synthesis.
Released October 29, 2007, each disc in the volume contained mixed songs by the likes of Markus Schulz, Tiësto and other DJs.
In this way the record attains the right speed almost immediately, with no need to wait for the heavy platter to accelerate.
To partly linearise the pitch field, the antenna may be wired in series with an inductor to form a series tuned circuit, resonating with the parallel combination of the antenna's intrinsic capacitance and the capacitance of the player's hand in proximity to the antenna.
The album Cat Dreams is a suite of composed pieces, and melodic, tonal, and rhythmic frameworks for improvisation.
Clean Bandit's 2016 single "Rockabye", which features rapper Sean Paul and singer Anne-Marie, became their second number-one hit in the UK, becoming the Christmas number one single for 2016 in its seventh consecutive week at number one.
for electronic music generation, and visual artists, as they greatly simplify interactive installation art and electronic art (such as presented at Ars Electronica and SIGGRAPH).
Critical reception Pan-European magazine Music & Media wrote that "Hold On (If You Believe in Love)" "is more or less styled after the golden age of Stock.
Before she gained fame as Peaches, Merrill Nisker released her debut studio album, Fancypants Hoodlum, under her own name in 1995.
The song is written by Dillon Francis and Stylo G, with production handled by Dillon Francis and Major Lazer.
Margaret Lee Scoville (3 May 1944 - 1978) was an American composer of chamber, electronic and piano music.
It has been criticized for its small size, which belies its feature set and likens it to a toy or game, and for its lack of dedicated hardware equalization knobs.
Tony was at the forefront of pushing the exciting harder house sounds emerging from the UK's gay underground, focussed around his own weekly residency at legendary London afterhours, Trade.
Ar gouriz koar Prigent's first album, Ar gouriz koar (translated The Wax Belt), was released in 1993 on Auvidis/Silex.
Use The PadKontrol is commonly used for controlling virtual drum instruments in a MIDI sequencer (such as EZdrummer or BFD).
The Jan Linton album "Buddha Machine Music" used these loops along with others created by manually scrolling through C.D.s on a CDJ player.
Description Control Surface: Velocity-, position-, and contact-sensitive bars are laid out in an array similar to a conventional marimba.
In 2014, a political-driven dispute among university students resulted in Khayer being held by the secret police for 34 days because he was a rebel against his government.
"Show Me Love" is a song recorded by South African–German recording artist WizTheMc and Bees & Honey.
Singles Music videos Note: "Rubber Johnny" is a short film that features the song "Afx237 v.7", and "Monkey Drummer" is a short music video for the track "Mt Saint Michel + Saint Michaels Mount", both by director Chris Cunningham and both from the album Drukqs.
The label invested in various music artists and performers developing and promoting both physical music releases and subsidising live tours, for artists predominantly from the UK and the North West of England.
He has remixed a diverse range of artists and groups including Pet Shop Boys, Tears for Fears, Unkle, Slam, Umek, Joseph Capriati.
and Jean-François Lyotard, as well as writers such as Norman Spinrad and the essayist and novelist Maurice Dantec.
Orchestral Arrangement by Matthew Sheeran In January 2024, an acoustic performance of the Twelve Microtonal Etudes on real orchestral instruments, titled "Acoustic Microtonal," was released by Matthew Sheeran (brother to singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran).
Vangelis used a ring modulator with his Yamaha CS-80 to improvise his 1978 avant-garde-experimental album Beaubourg.
AirHarp is a musical instrument that uses motion detection and software (of the same name) to create pitches.
Records 2022: Denis A - "BEON1X" (Carl Cox Remix), DAR 2023: Nicole Moudaber - "Intentionally" (Carl Cox Remix), MOOD 2023: Capricorn - "20HZ" (Carl Cox Remix), R&S Records 2023: Inner City - "Say Something" (Carl Cox Remix), KMS Records References External links Carl Cox discography Biography
The band lists their influences as "Beat Assailant, The Roots, General Elektriks, Cannonball Adderley, Matthieu Chedid, Gainsbourg and many more".
External links "Cut And Splice 2005: Sketches for Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco (1980) Jonathan Harvey", BBC.co.uk.
The song was released as a digital download by Mad Decent and Columbia Records on 16 September 2014, and is the fourth single of Dillon Francis debut album Money Sucks, Friends Rule.
MEL also co-hosts an open weekly maker night with the Auckland University of Technology where projects are developed in a collaborative environment.
— Short history with six online drone pieces (available from accredited institutions or with a library login).
In the fall of that year, they followed it with the EP "Celebrate What You Can't See" produced by Villeneuve.
Before releasing an official Studio album, Moldover released a series of live recordings called Live Remashing.
71–81: Final section (piano, then forte) / 11 measures / cadence in G Dorian Within the each section there are frequent examples of phrase elision, such as in m.
Background and production Madonna's manager Guy Oseary had contacted Martin Solveig wanting to know if he would be available to work with the singer, to which he responded affirmative.
The sound projected by the Virtuoso Violin lacks the same quality found in a human violinist's playing, largely due to the inability for the device to spontaneously play emotionally.
Other notable examples of 1980s ethnic electronica include Angolan kuduro, Mexican tecnocumbia and the Indian album Synthesizing: Ten Ragas to a Disco Beat.
Children's Tutti Eve gives a downbeat for the first bar, which is played only by the white orchestra.
History Nortec originated in 1999 when Pepe Mogt started by experimenting with samples of old banda sinaloense and norteño albums and altering them on his computer or filtering them with analog synthesizers.
Stage designs are also curated by the Ultra Worldwide team and are adapted to accommodate the needs of indoor and outdoor venues.
TRE had produced much of the electronics for the United Kingdom (for radar) during World War II, and came under the Ministry of Supply.
Following dreampunk's emergence on labels like Dream Catalogue, No Problema Tapes, BLCR Laboratories, House of the Leg, Virtual Dream Plaza, among others, artists from across the internet began using the term "dreampunk" interchangeably with "dream music".
The title comes from the song "Ur vag a Vontroulez", in which a woman pledges a gift of wax to Saint John if he saves her son from the wretch.
"The Host of Seraphim" from The Serpent's Egg was used in: The film Baraka (1992) over scenes of poverty.
The following tracks were featured: Ram Jam, "Black Betty" (1977) The Magic Disco Machine, "Scratchin'" (1975) Funk, Inc., "Kool is Back" (1971) BBC Records, "Genesis of the Daleks" (1979) Jay Livingston, "Mister Ed" (1961) G.L.O.B.E.
He arranged these shapes in sequences on the analog optical sound track to produce notes and chords.
Performers known for playing the Marimba Lumina include Joel Davel of the Paul Dresher Ensemble, Vessela Stoyanova of Bury Me Standing and Goli, and Max Lord.
So As A Gentleman You Should Be More Polite Daisy's Face Easy Terms Le Fusible (How High) Can You Fly?
Charts UK Compilation Chart: #6 (CD version) UK Compilation Chart: #37 (Vinyl version) The many differences between the CD and vinyl versions caused two different entries for the album into the Top 40.
With official releases with Brent Faiyaz, Don Toliver and Little Dragon (Nabuma Purple Rubberband) they have made a niche in the sub genre.
Dave Seaman arrives for the first of what turns out to be string of GU City releases spanning subsequent years.
Like its visual cousin, sound collage works may have a completely different effect than that of the component parts, even if the original parts are recognizable or from a single source.
chapter of the International Confederation of Electroacoustic Music (ICEM) which had been formed 2 years prior in Bourges, France.
Any Way the Wind Blows is a 2003 Belgian film directed by Tom Barman, the lead singer of the Belgian rockband dEUS.
1981, Burundi) was a Belgian film teacher at the Kampala Film School of Kampala University; Dilsivian (b.
The vibe was so electric that Dave got a little carried away, busting out the breakdancing moves of his early youth on the packed Terrace for the cameras.
The recording was produced by first having the orchestral musicians, whose instruments are typically limited to 12 tone equal temperament, perform "approximated" 12-tone versions of the original etudes on their instruments.
the term chillwave came when the era of blog-mediated music was at its height at that time." The term did not gain mainstream currency until early 2010, when it was the subject of articles by The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times.
2004 The 7th edition winners nominees and recipients were chosen from 9 categories.' 2005 The 8th edition winners nominees and recipients were chosen from 10 categories.
Francis already released the song on 16 September 2014, on digital stores and streaming services like Spotify, Deezer, iTunes, Google Play and Amazon .
Louie Louie and The Pasadenas) 1991 Water Dragon by Masahiro Motoki (album) 1991 Marchand de cailloux by Renaud (album) 1991 Zeit Zu Leben by Klaus Hoffmann (album) 1991 America by Perales (album) 1991 I Believe by Old Tennis Shoes (Prod.
Mixed In Key is specialized software designed for more accurate key detection and is compatible with some other DJ software.
These instruments were disseminated widely as popular entertainment devices prior to the inventions of phonographs, radios, and sound films which eventually eclipsed all such home music production devices.
Between 2005 and 2010, Barabás organized a weekly improvisational music series in Budapest called Random Szerda, which led to the release of a compilation album, Small Talk, in 2008.
The mix is an altogether more mellow take on the club sound, with Nick abandoning the more dramatic peak-time moments of previous discs in favour of a mellowed, tripped-out spatial sound.
The user can also mix the various tracks down into a stereo .wav file ready to be burned to a compact disc (CD) in Red Book format, or .mp3 burned to CD or DVD as files, or to be published on the Web.
The arduinome was described by Jordan Hochenbaum as "testament to the uniqueness of arduino itself".
I've played my sets in various towns over the past few years and I've always wished to come back and explore.
Beatmatching is a component of beatmixing which employs beatmatching combined with equalization, attention to phrasing and track selection in an attempt to make a single mix that flows together and has a good structure.
These developments continued to happen in future decades leading to the creation of new electrical instruments such as the Theremin, Hammond organ, electric guitar, synthesizer, and digital sampler.
He further stated, "I make sure there are no hate comments towards the people who share their stories because it takes bravery.
Neal McCormick of The Daily Telegraph called it "an album highlight", writing that "there is real energy to this Martin Solveig production, though Nicki Minaj's explosive rap rather shows up Madonna's more static delivery".
Equipment Technology: digital audio workstation, drum machine, groovebox, sampler, sequencer, synthesizer and MIDI References External links Dobrian, Chris (1988).
The studio was closed in 1967 but its main control room and equipment have been preserved as part of a museum exhibit at the Deutsches Museum in Munich.
(Free-Style Sax Mix) 4:16 References External links Original video version on YouTube American video version on YouTube
Chart Peak (AUS) #88 2000: Mixed Live Crobar Nightclub, Chicago, Moonshine Music 2002: Mixed Live 2nd Session Area 2, Detroit, Moonshine Music 2002: Club Traxx Vol.
It uses the LLVM cross-language compiler to achieve performant digital signal processing and related low-level features, on-the-fly.
Bands and Artists that use the Monomachine Notes References External links Official Monomachine product web site Remix Mag Review
It was first performed at Carnegie Hall on 11 September 1968 by the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra with Lukas Foss conducting.
I-CubeX comprises a system of sensors, actuators and interfaces that are configured by a personal computer.
(2005) Did You Ever See (2005) Charlotte On Fire (2007) Others Pointing Excitedly To The Sky (2006) Communication's Lost Bam!
It became her first Top 5 single on any Billboard chart since "To Be Loved by You" reached number one on Hot Country Singles & Tracks in 1996.
Composed in a minor key, the song features romantic lyrics, a string ensemble and elements of techno music, in the form of synthesizers.
In 1972, Technics released the first SL-1200 turntable, which evolved into the SL-1200 MK2 in 1979—which, as of the early-2010s, remains an industry standard for DJing.
Independently released by Bamboo Artists on 7 February 2025, "Show Me Love" was promoted and distributed by TikTok's digital music promotion and distribution platform, SoundOn.
These recordings collected sound works by artists included in the magazine with issues 4, 7/8 and 9.
Written by Peter Bauwens, Phil WIlde and Xavier Clayton, and produced by Bauwens and Wilde, the song achieved moderate success in Europe.
Sounds may start or end together, duration and pitch may be linked (the higher the shorter) or not, and successive sounds may precede or follow silences, yielding six different modes which can be manipulated according to the same number square.
Powered by Melomics' technology, the composing module of Melomics109 is able to create and synthesize music in a variety of musical styles.
1980s, 1990s Throughout the 1980s, German electronic music evolved into techno, drawing from Detroit, Chicago and Frankfurt influences.
On 23 July 2007 Chicane released his third studio album, Somersault on his own record label, Modena.
Personnel James Brown – vocals, Hammond organ with the James Brown Orchestra Richard "Kush" Griffith – trumpet Joe Davis – trumpet Fred Wesley – trombone Maceo Parker – tenor saxophone Eldee Williams – tenor saxophone St.
The discography of MiChi consists of three studio albums, and many singles, first released on the independent MMM Records (a subsidiary of File Records) in 2008, and from 2008 onwards released under Sony Music Entertainment Japan.
The discography of the American electronic musician BT consists of 15 studio albums, 4 compilation albums, 5 extended plays, 39 singles, 28 music videos, and 16 soundtracks.
It features the singles "Who Do You Love" featuring 5 Seconds of Summer and "Call You Mine" featuring Bebe Rexha.
Break out the platform boots for this one, kids!" James Hamilton from Music Week's RM Dance Update noted that Holloway's acappella of "Love Sensation" "once again provides the vocal samples for an italo house pounder, this consequently old fashioned but powerful urgent galloper".
Similar to a group of three of the composer's works from the previous decade, Gruppen, Zeitmaße, and Gesang der Jünglinge, there is one work each for orchestral, chamber, and vocal forces.
The term folktronica was coined in the late 1990s, presumably first by the British press in reference to the musician Kieran Hebden (Four Tet).
Discography Studio albums 2015 : Slaasssch 2017 : Casa Plaisance 2025 : Elégance EPs 2014 : Tapin Ovlov 2018 : YOGA Singles 2018 : ENVY 2023 : Biboonitz 2024 : Travail Famille Connasse 2025 : Tutu Toulemonde 2025 : Jurassique Parc 2025 : HAPPINESS == References ==
DJMag.com gave the remix EP a 7.5/10, stating:Sanctuary seemed to be all about its super-contagious chorus.
If you've been praying for a long time and haven't found the answer, you're gonna need to look at all the good things that God has done.
Composition "Give Until There's Nothing Left" was written by Matthew Thiessen and produced by Howard Benson.
The Italian choir performed the Italian premiere at the Basilica di San Francesco in Ravenna in a Christmas concert on 26 December 2018, conducted by Stefano Sintoni.
Pop duo For King & Country won their second consecutive Artist of the Year, whilst Maverick City Music took home the New Artist of the Year award.
The category was first introduced as Praise and Worship Album of the Year at the 12th GMA Dove Awards in 1981, and since then is presented annually.
Much disagreement persists about the boundaries of the subgenre, and the extent that their lyrics are explicitly Christian varies among bands.
The hymn has been used for both Catholic Corpus Christi processions and Protestant Kirchentag conventions.
The Thunder Song (as most people called it) was my story of an encounter with God (specifically Psalm 29), but ended up as the story of a group of young adults learning to worship in Memphis.
As a hip hop artist, he co-founded the underground Christian hip hop collective Tunnel Rats and the affiliated groups LPG, Footsoldiers, and The Resistance.
Brandon Lake leads with 16 nominations, followed by songwriter and producer Jeff Pardo who garnered 11 nominations.
OCP is the long-term publisher of the Catholic Sentinel, the diocesan newspaper for the Archdiocese of Portland.
The 32nd Annual GMA Dove Awards were held on April 5, 2001 recognizing accomplishments of musicians for the year 2000.
The first two lines are the same for all stanzas: "Bewahre uns, Gott, behüte uns Gott", requesting God to keep and guard us.
"Everything Glorious" is a song by Contemporary Christian band David Crowder Band from their fourth studio album, Remedy.
He wrote texts for more than 200 hymns, which inspired various composers to write music of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied.
Lichter auf dem Weg: Eine Messe mit neuen geistlichen Liedern; für drei- bis vierstimmigen gemischten Chor, Gemeinde und Klavier (in German).
Theme and text The song is part of the movement Neues Geistliches Lied, a revival of church music in Germany.
(Traa, Sonny, Marcos, Wuv) Paul Sandoval, Marco Curiel, Mark Traa, Noah Bernardo; Atlantic Nominees "Boom"; Satellite; P.O.D.; P.O.D.
Baker later remarked: "It holds a lot of memories for me—being young in church, and the lyrics hold a lot of meaning when you analyze them." In 2023, the song was covered by American singer Natalie Grant on her 2023 album Seasons, and in 2024 it was featured on Michael W.
In 2006, Phillips founded the Square Peg Alliance with 12 other independent Christian artists to cross-promote each other's music.
References External links Herr, segne uns, laß uns dir dankbar sein deutsche-digitale-bibliothek.de Herbst, Wolfgang (2001).
Jake Hess; Ain't That Beautiful Singin'; Jake Hess Cover Photo or Cover Art Bill Grine; This Is My Valley; The Rambos Graphic Layout And Design Jerry Goff; Thrasher Brothers at Fantastic Caverns; The Thrasher Brothers Television Program Gospel Jubilee, Florida Boys D.J.
Other popular songs by Norman include "Disappear", "Nothing Without You", "I Will Lift My Eyes", and "Borrow Mine".
Composition "For God Is with Us" is composed in the key of G with a tempo of 75 beats per minute and a musical time signature of 44.
The festival was subsequently re-launched as a partnership with Gilead Foundations, under the new name of the Arrow Festival.
The song was released on July 18, 2025, via Capitol CMG, as the second single from MacDonald's self-titled debut studio album.
Flame's album Christ for You focuses on Lutheran doctrines such as the sacramental union, the Lutheran teaching on the real presence of Christ in the Eucharist.
They released their debut single, "Hallelujah Feeling", on July 28, 2023, which became the highest charting debut single to be released to Christian radio in 2023.
Background On June 10, 2022, Nichole and Big Daddy Weave released the single "God Is In This Story".
The only other year in which there were no awards was in 1979 when they were moved from October to April.
It has featured at Protestant Kirchentag conventions, such as 1983 in Hannover, where purple shawls demonstrated Frieden schaffen ohne Waffen ('Create peace without weapons'), and in 2017 in Berlin to commemorate 500 years of the Protestant Reformation.
Janssens studied musicology, sociology and history at the Musikhochschule Köln, graduating as a music educator in 1958.
Career Born in Frankfurt am Main, Reulein studied Catholic church music at the Hochschule für Musik und Darstellende Kunst Frankfurt am Main with Wolfgang Schäfer and Uwe Gronostay.
Background "Finally Home" was released on May 18, 2012, as the lead single from her second studio album Time for the Show.
Raised in the outskirts of Atlanta, Mason attended Berry College in Rome, Georgia, majoring in Family Counseling until graduating in 2001.
He led a ministry that won the 2008 Billboard Award for Latin music's best Christian music album with the song "Your Love." He and his wife reside in Houston, Texas.
The song appeared in the first common German Catholic hymnal Gotteslob in 1975 in the regional section for the Diocese of Limburg as GL 986, and is contained in its second edition there as GL 740.
Dehm is the director of the Dehm Verlag publishing music of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied (NGL), and president of the ecumenical association inTAKT for the support of NGL, which he initiated.
A song with a similar beginning, "Nimm o Herr die Gaben die wir bringen", was written to the same melody by an unknown author.
In an attempt to bring meaningful Christian content to other media, the company started a major film project called St.
Planetshakers (featuring Su Presencia) have been nominated by the Arpa Awards in 2016 in the category: "Best song in participation" "Sé quién eres tú".
"Kommt herbei, singt dem Herrn" (Come hither, sing to the Lord) is a Christian hymn with text by Diethard Zils in 1972, a paraphrase of Psalm 95 to an Israeli melody.
Awards American Music Awards GMA Dove Awards Discography References External links Official website Matthew West at AllMusic
Danke, the song with which Martin Gotthard Schneider won the competition for new spiritual songs from the Evangelische Akademie Tutzing, became the first unexpected success for the Botho-Lucas Chor.
Activities Rapzilla provides news, album reviews, interviews, and coverage of Christian hip hop artists and releases.
In light of this info, it is no surprise that secular artists are backlashed after releasing gospel records.
Music, LenSongs Publishing (ASCAP) "Alive"; Paul Sandoval, Marcos Curiel, Mark Traa Daniels, Noah C.
References External links Evangelisches Gesangbuch 170 l4a.org Gotteslobvideo (GL 451): Komm, Herr, segne uns, dass wir uns nicht trennen (2014) on YouTube
He retained the first stanza of Lobwasser's hymn and the end of the last stanza, and rewrote the three and a half inner stanzas in 1951.
This song was released originally by Jeremy Riddle on the album For the Sake of the World with Bethel Music.
Music videos The music video of "Relate" premiered on Apple Music on 6 August 2021, and was later published on For King & Country's YouTube channel on 7 August 2021.
Grant performed the song at the 1985 Grammy Awards, where it won her an award for Best Gospel Vocal Performance, Female.
Her eighth studio album, If I Had One Chance to Tell You Something, was released on 22 November 2005.
In October 2014, Greer produced and arranged "All is Calm, All is Bright: Songs of Christmas", a multi-artist compilation featuring Jaci Velasquez, Sandi Patty, Cindy Morgan, Ginny Owens, Seth and Nirva, American Idol's Melinda Doolittle and R&B superstar Montell Jordan.
Smith Southern Gospel Southern Gospel Recorded Song of the Year “Jesus Changed Everything” – Ernie Haase & Signature Sound (writers) Ernie Haase, Wayne Haun, Joel Lindsey “Jesus Gave Me Water” – Gaither Vocal Band (writer) Lucie E.
Work Christill composed the music for many new hymns by Eugen Eckert, including: References External links "Von David, Saul und Goliat" – Kindermusical (Eckert/Christill) on YouTube
He achieved his first Billboard chart entry with the single "I Need You," which first appeared on the Hot Christian Songs chart in March 2024.
New songs like this one, of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied (NGL), were aimed at expressing the interests and ideas of young people better than traditional hymns.
In 2002, their company, Scripture in Song Recordings Limited, was removed by the New Zealand Companies Office.
The next day, McMillan wrote "How He Loves" as a tribute to Coffey and out of a need "to have some sort of conversation with God" where he could speak to his frustrations and emotions over his best friend's death.
The text is derived from verse 7 of Psalm 87, "All my springs are in thee", which is used as the refrain to begin and end the song, framing four stanzas.
In 1992, he wrote Passion der Eingeborenen (Passion of the Indigenous), related to 500 years after the European invasion in Latin America.
History The text and music of Atme in uns, Heiliger Geist were first written in French in the early 1980s.
"Finally Home" is the lead single by singer-songwriter Kerrie Roberts from her second studio album Time for the Show.
In the aftermath of such conversions, these musicians continued playing the same styles of music that they had been playing prior to their conversion, though they now infused their lyrics with a Christian message.
The three verses mention conditions for that kind of peace, each concluding "und neu beginnen, ganz neu" (and begin newly, really newly).
That same year, Cross Rhythms took over the organisation and management, of what had previously been the Umberleigh Rock Gospel Festival.
With a 1972 melody by Johann Lauermann, it became a Christian hymn of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied (NGL), appearing from 1975 in German hymnals.
It was also printed in the Protestant hymnal of 1995 Evangelisches Gesangbuch, as EG 579, and in other songbooks.
"Miracles Still Happen" – Stephanie Dotson Traditional Gospel Album of the Year A New Beginning – Bishop Eddie Long & The New Birth Total Praise Choir Clarence Fountain and The Blind Boys of Alabama With Sam Butler, Jr.
The residual effects of the disorder still prevent him from playing guitar, the instrument on which he composed "On Eagle's Wings".
Smith; Michael Sacci, Ken Conrad; Carl Diebold; Reunion References External links 34th Annual Dove Awards Nominees Announced Billboard.com list of winners
Music, Life Worship, Travis Ryan Music “Even So Come” (writers) Jess Cates, Jason Ingram, Chris Tomlin (publisher) S.
Award recipients Artists Artist of the Year dc Talk New Artist of the Year Jars of Clay Group of the Year Point of Grace Male Vocalist of the Year Gary Chapman Female Vocalist of the Year CeCe Winans Songwriter of the Year Michael W.
It included modern folk tunes, operettas, musicals, hit covers, schlagers in several languages such as the adaptation in German of the title song of the British film Those Magnificent Men in their Flying Machines (Richt’ge Männer wie wir) released in 1965.
This was the last year in which the awards were called the "GMA Music Awards", since they will change their names to "GMA Dove Awards".
Promise Band Children's Music Album of the Year School Days; Mike Gay, Sue Gay Youth/Children's Musical Album of the Year Salt and Light (featuring Songs from the Loft); Beverly Darnall Musical Album Saviour; Bob Farrell and Greg Nelson Choral Collection Album Praise Him...
Squint Entertainment was a record label owned by Word Entertainment, started and run by musician and songwriter Steve Taylor in 1997.
During the next fifteen years, he wrote more than 100 songs and published 4 albums: "Ljubav koja preobražava" (Love that transforms), "Dvije zlatne poluge" (Two bullions), "Suze moje majke" (My mother's tears) and "Kralj ljubavi" (King of love).
Smith, Sandi Patty, Twila Paris, Point of Grace, Gary Chapman, Cindy Morgan, Bryan Duncan, 4Him, Phillips, Craig and Dean, Steven Curtis Chapman Instrumental Album of the Year Classical Peace; Dino Praise & Worship Album of the Year Promise Keepers: Raise the Standard; Maranatha!
The hymn was performed as the first song in the opening service of the Ökumenischer Kirchentag 2021 (Ecumenical Church Assembly) in Frankfurt on Ascension Day open air as a livestream event due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with the city skyline and the Paulskirche as a background.
Security guards desperately try to keep the fans away, but the band continues to look forward and walk towards the building anyway.
Award nominees and recipients Song of the year Winner "I Can Only Imagine" - Bart Millard; Simpleville Music (ASCAP) Nominees "Above All"; Lenny LeBlanc, Paul Baloche; Integrity Hosanna!
Among his compositions are "One Bread, One Body" (1978), "Earthen Vessels" (1975), "Come to the Water" (1978), "The Cry of the Poor" (1978), "For You Are My God" (1970), and the album As a River of Light (1989).
The third line calls to the singer to face Him while singing, as in the psalm, explaining in the fourth line: "mehr als Worte sagt ein Lied" (a song says more than words).
She clarified that she does not really listen to much hip hop music and instead prefers folk music and "old hippie stuff." She considers Jurny Big to be her favorite emcee.
The ceremony recognized the accomplishments of musicians and other figures within the Christian music industry for the year 2019.
The Katholikentag in Stuttgart in 2022 had the motto "leben teilen" (share life), taken from the song which was featured often.
Track listing Reception Revisiting the album 15 years later, Cosmopolitan writer Peggy Troung in her 2017 write-up felt "For a Nicholas Sparks adaptation, this movie is coming-of-age romance at its best.
The ceremony was produced by the Gospel Music Association and was hosted by singers Kirk Franklin and Amy Grant.
Woman)" (2010) With Tunnel Rats Featured appearances Music videos Filmography References External links Official Bandcamp Zane Marie on Storenvy Zane Marie Tumblr Official Instagram
The song Grace is the story of a dear friendship with Chris Collins as we learned what it meant to lead God’s people in worship.
In 2006, Reynosa helped organize the Tunnel Rats-affiliated group Footsoldiers, and formed the production duo The Resistance with Tunnel Rats producer Dert.
Father Fortuna spends most of his time preaching and doing concerts in the United States, Canada, Africa and Europe.
Certain individual Christian punk bands outsold the entire market for the next-largest religious punk genre, Krishnacore.
Music The hymn does not contain any larger interval jumps besides a few fourths and the melody shows an increase in tension in the verses.
In 2017, when 500 years of the Reformation were celebrated, it was part of the service on Ascension Day of the Evangelischer Kirchentag Berlin–Wittenberg, held open air and broadcast live by the ARD.
The song was included, now with the complete text, in the 2013 edition as GL 184, in the section "Gesänge – Woche – Gesänge zur Gabenbereitung" (Chants – Week – chants for offertory).
While at his church in Williamsburg, Virginia, his pastor inspired him with a reference to how Jesus made himself poor to make others rich through him.
"So Be It" (stylized in all caps) is a song recorded live by the American contemporary worship collective Elevation Worship featuring singers Chris Brown and Tiffany Hudson.
Stand firm, hold your position, and see the salvation of the Lord on your behalf.’ So much so that instead of sending their army into the front lines, they sent their worshippers into the front lines.
This is a list of notable Christian singers, who were either citizens or residents of Brazil, or published the bulk of their work while living there.
Christian swing music is generally congruent with the swing revival of the 1990s, and includes a small number of bands.
History Manfred Siebald wrote the German text and the music of "Geh unter der Gnade" in 1987, first as a birthday greeting for the 60th birthday of the publisher Friedrich Hänssler, trying to translate the greeting "Go under the mercy" into German.
The station’s second go-around with the format included a heavy emphasis on classic hip hop/R&B music, along with some currents and recurrents.
There was some controversy about this outcome as almost all of the albums were sold at Hillsong's annual conference held in early July.
In 1964, Petula Clark recorded the English rendition Thank you, which was released as a single in the UK.
He wrote texts for several Christian musicals, such as the Luther musical Bruder Martinus with music by Siegfried Fietz Personal life Werth is married; he and his wife Angela have three children.
Maher was a guest singer songwriter speaker at Crowder's Fantastical Church Music Conference at Baylor University in late 2010 put on by the David Crowder Band.
"No one has been more surprised than myself at seeing how God has used this worship song." The themes in the song are the life of Jesus, thankfulness, and worship.
In November 2013, Rip won five Madison Hip-Hop Awards including artist, song, video, and videographer of the year.
Release and promotion The first track to be released from Breathe on It was "Joy in the Morning", a collaboration with Elevation Worship, on January 1, 2023.
Kelly Willard lives in Florence, Alabama; she is writing and recording a new "duo" project with long-time friend, Rene Stamps.
Their album These Simple Truths contained the single "The Words I Would Say" which is also featured on WOW Hits 2010 and WOW Hits 2011.
Francois is a webcast host of "The Commons" on spiritandsong.com, as well as a host for an upcoming Confirmation DVD series with Ascension Press.
Similarly, bilingual French Christian CHRs are common in some Canadian markets, and combine anglophone and French Christian pop hits.
The song has also been cited by Christian authors to be used for thanksgiving and giving thanks to God.
Selected works "Be Not Afraid" (1975) "Sing to the Mountains" (1975) "Like a Shepherd" (1976) "All the Ends of the Earth" (1981) "St.
He was pianist and keyboard player of the band Habakuk from 1995 to 1999, recording several albums.He was church musician at the Wetzlar Cathedral which is used by a Catholic parish and a Protestant parish, from 1996 to 2018, again also as Bezirkskantor.
Tait said that his abrupt departure from Newsboys came because he was "tired of living a double life" and wanted to seek professional help and counseling.
Writing and development "So Be It" was written by Davide Mutendji, Mitch Wong, Steven Furtick, and Hudson.
– Bear Hug Band (producers) Neil Godding, Landon Bailey Come Alive – Bethel Music Kids (producers) Jason Ingram, Paul Mabury Sing The Bible With Slugs And Bugs, Volume 2 – Randall Goodgame (producer) Ben Shive Sweet Dreams – Sandi Patty (producer) Steve Wingfield Fun Size, Vol.
Music videos The official music video for the song was released on February 11, 2020 and has garnered 209 thousand views as of January 2021.
In 1958, he played a part along Fred Bertelmann in the music film Der lachende Vagabund in which he performed the hit song "Die Sonne von Andalucia".
Jan Michael Joncas (born December 21, 1951) is a Catholic priest of the Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Minneapolis, liturgical theologian, and composer of contemporary Catholic music best known for his hymn "On Eagle's Wings".
With its general theme, it has been recommended by the Catholic Church for Lent, penitence, the Holy Week, All Souls' Day, and following (Nachfolge).
They started a movement; it was a worldwide phenomenon, led by the Garratts from their base in Auckland.
Christian punk is a form of Christian music and a subgenre of punk rock which contain Christian lyrical content.
He converted to Christianity at the age of 14 when he was invited to the Great Campaign of Divine Healing annual meeting.
"Ob ich sitze oder stehe" (Whether I sit or walk) is a Christian poem by Eugen Eckert, written in 1988, and made a hymn of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied with a melody and setting by Torsten Hampel the same year.
He tried to set the translated travel blessing to music, but realised that the text was too long for a round, and too short for a song.
It was released on February 7, 2020, as the lead single from the band's second album and first studio album JC Squad from Planetboom.
A review of this release suggests that "with this newest offering, Christy Nockels reinforces...her position as one of the most respected lead worshipers in the church today." Personal life Christy and Nathan Nockels have been married since 1995.
3 Part 1 – Maverick City Music (producers) Tony Brown, Jonathan Jay Broken Record – Travis Greene (producers) Travis Greene, Brunes Charles Elements – VaShawn Mitchell (producers) VaShawn Mitchell, Thomas Hardin Jr.
The song is used particularly in situations of departure and separation, including the end of gatherings and even funerals.
A comparison of 15 new Easter hymns shows that two-thirds of them include a statement about the living Jesus, and all of them mention implications for the singers in the present and their reaction.
Hillsong London has hosted their special Christmas event called "Carols at Wembley Arena" at the SSE Arena, Wembley, with the event sold out in 2015.
"After Your Heart" is the third single by American contemporary Christian and contemporary worship music singer Phil Wickham from his second studio album, Cannons, the song reached No.
Discography Source: Obvious (2001) Into These Rooms (2004) Road to Ohio (2008) Saint Song (2009) The Give and Keep (2010) This Winter's Eve (2011) Above Earth's Lamentations (2013) Til the Song is Sung (2016) Sacrament (2018) Choose Christ 2020: The Mass of St.
The 17th Annual GMA Dove Awards were held on 1986 recognizing accomplishments of musicians for the year 1985.
Also see Category:Christian record labels List See also List of record labels Christianity portal Record production portal
The text begins with a refrain requesting the Holy Spirit to breathe in us, burn in us, work in us, and to come as the breath of God, with all these attributes based on Biblical sources.
Background On September 21, 2021, For King & Country announced that they would be releasing "For God Is with Us" as a single on September 24, 2021.
Awards In 2008, the song won a Dove Award for Rock/Contemporary Recorded Song of the Year at the 39th GMA Dove Awards.
He is known for writing new spiritual songs (Neues Geistliches Lied), set to music by various composers.
The forth movement collects prayers for mercy and salvation, "Salvum fac populum tuum, Domine" (Make your people whole, Lord), ending with the line "In te, Domine, speravi" (For you, Lord, I hope).
Oregon Catholic Press (OCP, originally the Catholic Truth Society of Oregon) is a publisher of Catholic liturgical music based in Portland, Oregon.
This was the first year in which the awards were called the "GMA Dove Awards" since the 2006 edition was called the "GMA Music Awards".
The psychiatrists evaluating him changed their prognosis from "no hope" to "recovering satisfactorily".
Reunion: 2014 On April 14, 2014, Plus One announced that they had reunited with three original members: Nathan Walters, Gabe Combs, and Jason Perry, who previously had quit the group in 2003.
Hold on." Music video The accompanying music video released on July 28, 2017 on Lecrae's official Vevo account.
History Mosaic MSC recorded its first worship album, MSC (Live from LA) on May 24, 2014 at the historic Wiltern Theater.
She is married to Andy Gullahorn, where they presently reside in Nashville, Tennessee, with their children.
On November 1, 2002, during a church prayer meeting, Coffey prayed out loud "I'd give my life today if it would shake the youth of the nation"; the same night, he was in a multi-car accident and died of serious injuries.
The song was released as a single on January 16, 2026, via Capitol Christian Music Group and F&L Music Group.
Death On April 18, 2024, Mandisa was found dead at her home in Franklin, Tennessee, at the age of 47.
2000s–2010s In the 2000s, many gospel artists from the previous two decades began establishing records and gaining established places in the gospel music canon, as recognized by annual WOW Gospel albums (after beginning in the late 1990s).
Both the solo and the group efforts were released through publishers North American Liturgy Resources (NALR), OCP, and GIA Publications.
Nace announced he was about to leave the band in 2015, then Ben Young joined the band and took his place.
One of his best-known songs is "Be Not Afraid." His work is included in such hymnals as Glory and Praise and Gather.
Reception Critical "I Got Saved" received notable acclaim from critics and was widely regarded as one of the most prominent songs on So Be It.
1 – Terrence Mackey & Nu Restoration T57 – Trin-I-Tee 5:7 V2 – J Moss Others Instrumental Album of the Year Amazing Grace (Original Score) – David Arnold Holy!
References External links Literature by and about Alfred Hans Zoller in the German National Library catalogue Alfred Hans Zoller on Carus music Stern über Bethlehem, Alfred Hans Zoller 2005 on YouTube
Early life Ward was born in Lawton, Oklahoma, to a church pianist mother and a father who owned a barbecue restaurant that hosted blues and soul musicians, exposing her to church music alongside secular soul and folk traditions.
The song of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied (NGL) has appeared in the German Protestant and Catholic hymnals and songbooks, especially collections for children.
The 10th Annual GMA Dove Awards were held during the National Quartet Convention recognizing accomplishments of musicians for the year.
Its website asks, "How much more comfortable can you get sipping a chai in church?" This church is a multi-location church located at sites accessible by public transit, which links its indie music coffeehouse broadcasts to other locations via the Internet.
Well-known songs include O Herr, mach mich zu einem Werkzeug deines Friedens (O Lord, make me a tool of Thy peace) Das ist ein köstlich ding, dem herren danken (It is good to praise the Lord), and Singet dem Herrn ein neues Lied (Sing a new song to the Lord, since he does wonders).
In 2008, the song was included in the release of Christian Worship: Supplement for the Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod (WELS).
"Atme in uns, Heiliger Geist" (Breath in us, Holy Spirit) is a Christian hymn for Pentecost, a song of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied (NGL) first created in France and published in 1982.
On January 22, 2026, the album's title track was released exclusively to Air1-based Christian radio stations in the United States as the fifth single from Breathe on It, before later being released to digital download and streaming formats.
Commercial performance "Where I'm Standing Now" made its debut at number 43 on the US Christian Airplay chart dated February 5, 2022.
It is dominated by lively eighth-notes; only the call "Jesus Christ" features three quarter-notes in a row, beginning both lines of the refrain.
The text by Helmut Schlegel, titled Laudato si' – Ein franziskanisches Magnificat (A Franciscan Magnificat) includes the Latin Magnificat, writings by Francis of Assisi and Clare of Assisi, writings by Pope Francis from the German version of Laudato si' to German, and other sacred texts.
Originating as a tongue-in-cheek comedic skit satirizing the Christian tendency to adapt popular culture, "Cartoons" gained significant popularity in the contemporary Christian music scene after its release on albums and to radio.
It was first released to digital retailers on 19 October 2015 as the album's third official single before impacting American contemporary hit radio on 3 November 2015, and as the lead single from the reissue.
When we got together to write this song, one of the writers came in and said, 'I'm fighting a ton of fear today.' What they didn't know was that I, too, was battling intense fear and anxiety in my own life.
He has been a pastor for students (Studentenpfarrer) of the Frankfurt University since 1996, and is the pastor of the stadium Commerzbank-Arena.
Davies, Demitri Wells, Jeremy "Jay-J" James, Jonathan Gamble, Smith, Sapp, Lorna Wells, Steven Furtick, and Tauren Wells.
Bebo Norman's album, Ocean, released on September 28, 2010, is a personal album, according to Norman, that covers the discovery of his true identity and the battle between fear and faith.
(Mystery of faith: in death there is life.) The phrase "mystery of faith" is based on 1 Timothy 3:9, which is quoted in the Eucharistic prayer during Mass.
It’s a declaration that fear and darkness don’t get the final word when your trust and hope is in Jesus.
The song has short stanzas of four lines each, all giving a condition, ending in the same two lines "fällt ein Tropfen von dem Regen / der aus Wüsten Gärten macht" (then a drop falls of the rain that turns deserts to gardens).
Discography Songs One Through Six (EP) (2006) Crowded Spaces (2003) Not So Gracefully (2001) See also The Square Peg Alliance Notes and references External links ChrisMasonMusic.com, his official website.
Personal life Stephanie's work has often been driven by the pain caused by the lack of a relationship with her father, whom she loved dearly but was absent from her life from a very early age.
History The group started in the early 1990s when a Music and Drama workshop was started in Ware (Hertfordshire UK), under the direction of Mark Gates.
Goldtooth and current activity (since 2010) Evans released two albums in 2010, an EP titled School Shooting with DJ Tone and Back to Dust Remix, a compilation remixed by Theory Hazit, and Deepspace5 also released the studio album The Future Ain't What it Used to Be.
Breanna Nix (born August 7, 1999) is an American alternative pop musician and Season 23 American Idol finalist from Denton, Texas.
Reynosa frequented venues in the Los Angeles hip hop underground such as Project Blowed, Good Life Cafe, and Unity.
In 1993, Scripture in Song celebrated 25 years with the four-day Oct One event at the ASB Arena in Auckland, including guests Kevin Prosch, Steve Grace and Geoff Bullock.
Fortuna's official site) Franciscan Friars of the Renewal Father Stan Fortuna, C.F.R., Promovideo for the World Youth Day in Sydney 2008
According to Hillsong Church senior pastor Brian Houston, the inauguration of the church in Brazil will be a major breakthrough.
The duo also shared that they are working on a movie that is based on "Unsung Hero" which will tell the story of their parents' journey, and it will be their second film following Priceless (2016).
The ceremony recognized the accomplishments of musicians and other figures within the Christian music industry for the year 2021.
The song begins with an account of the apostle Peter's capture by Herod's guards in the Bible, and goes on to describe how God has His angels watching over believers, to guide and protect them in times of fear, doubt, confusion, or temptation.
And that’s what this song really is." Composition "Let the Redeemed" is composed in the key of A with a tempo of 80 beats per minute and a musical time signature of 44.
The Girls of Grace album was released on August 20, 2002, and the first conference took place in October in Lakeland, Florida.
Andy Williams, the band's former drummer, died on July 9, 2021, at age 49 from injuries sustained in a motorcycle accident on June 27.
It was published by the Dehm-Verlag in Limburg in 2016 and first performed in the Limburg Cathedral on 6 November 2016, conducted by the composer.
Track listings Digital download "Everything and More" featuring Aaron Cole — 3:17 "Isaac" — 4:00 Music video A music video for "Isaac" was released on October 18, 2018, and was directed by Ezra Cohen.
He has also collaborated with fellow DJs such as Tiësto, Avicii, David Guetta, Afrojack, R3hab, Armin van Buuren, Zedd, Alesso and Dimitri Vegas & Like Mike.
Before its release, the song was compared to Garrix's 2014 collaboration "Tremor" with Dimitri Vegas & Like Mike.
The piece has never been performed live by the band, although portions of it were included in the sound collage tape played before their 1994 concerts.
But pretty soon it became too cookie-cutter and wore itself out." He left the music industry in 1985.
The virtuoso American guitarist Joe Satriani included "Sleep Walk" on his 2002 album Strange Beautiful Music.
It has since been covered by several artists with new, original lyrics – including by Wilson himself.
He also recorded "Java" with Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops for the RCA Red Seal album Pops Goes the Trumpet (Holiday for Brass) in 1964.
The Beach Boys Carl Wilson – vocals (sampled from a 1971 recording for The Smile Sessions) Session musicians (later known as "the Wrecking Crew") References External links "Look" (session highlights) on YouTube
After struggling with the injuries caused by the accident, more than 4 years later in April 2013, Cheng died.
The EP Mogwai Fear Satan Remixes (released in March, 1998) includes the Mogwai Remix, the μ-Ziq Remix, the Surgeon Remix, and the My Bloody Valentine Remix.
"Space Race" is an instrumental track by Billy Preston, released as a single in 1973 on the A&M label.
"Also Sprach Zarathustra (2001)" is an instrumental by Brazilian musician Eumir Deodato, from his 1973 album Prelude.
Charts Other cover versions In 1967, Astrud Gilberto brought the song to the US, recording it with English lyrics on the Verve/Copacabana label, crediting Bob Russell for the English lyrics.
Although the recording was made in 1960, the tape was not discovered until much later by the McCartneys' Forthlin Road neighbours.
It was an attempt to reproduce natural reverberation, in which sounds dissipate more slowly, as in an empty hall or other large space.
Astral Weeks: 1968 Morrison's first album for Warner Bros Records was Astral Weeks (which he had already performed in several clubs around Boston), a mystical song cycle, often considered to be his best work and one of the best albums of all time.
Track listings Personnel Kenny G – soprano saxophone, drum programming Walter Afanasieff – keyboards, synth bass, arrangements Dean Parks – guitars Paulinho da Costa – percussion Charts References External links Kenny G's official Website
Billboard Hot 100 singles chart on 31 March 1973 (behind Roberta Flack's "Killing Me Softly with His Song"), number 3 in Canada, and number 7 on the UK Singles Chart.
History The tune, originally called "Liberty's Whip" after The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, was renamed after the band members saw a surfing movie showing scenes of the Banzai Pipeline in Hawaii.
[sic] It was nothing, there was really nothing in it." The track contains a variation on a riff that Wilson had employed on the band's then-latest single "The Little Girl I Once Knew" (1965).
At 1:53, Roger "The Hat" Manifold, Pink Floyd road manager says, "Live for today, gone tomorrow – that's me," then laughs.
About halfway through the track after a momentary pause, drummer Lars Ulrich joins with an accompanying drumbeat, which then segues the song into a much heavier, freestyle-inspired finale by Burton.
Also making guest appearances are will.i.am and Akon whom both previously collaborated with Guetta on his fourth studio album, One Love.
It has been featured in many commercials, movies and television programmes such as Butcher Boy (1998), Big Momma's House (2000) and ITV's Heartbeat in 2006.
He also recorded occasionally under his own name, his albums including The Soundtronic Guitar of Vincent Bell (Independent Record Company, 1960), Whistle Stop (Verve, 1964), and Pop Goes the Electric Sitar (Decca, 1967).
and Rakim, 2 Live Crew, Jungle Brothers, Compton's Most Wanted, Ultramagnetic MCs, Wu-Tang Clan, Pete Rock & C.L.
Some territories removed the not so tourist-friendly "Day on the Town" while others replaced it with "Never Ask Twice (a.k.a.
Davie Allan & the Arrows recorded a number of other soundtracks for similar AIP films over the next few years, like Devil's Angels, Thunder Alley, and The Born Losers, as well as several studio albums.
The track has been described by Bowie as intending to evoke the misery of the Berlin Wall, being a portrait piece like the other music on Side Two of Low.
Hugh Hagood Hardy, (February 26, 1937 – January 1, 1997) was a Canadian composer, pianist, and vibraphonist.
In the 1970s, the song was used as the theme for the African Safari shortwave broadcasts on the Voice of America.
"Give It All You Got" is an instrumental song from 1980 by the American flugelhorn player Chuck Mangione.
In contrast to most of Cramer's work, which consisted mostly of countrypolitan ballads, "On the Rebound" was an uptempo rock and roll instrumental.
Dee was nearly always backed by percussion; depending on the song, he also recorded with guitarists, Les Paul and Chet Atkins; bass; a backup chorus; strings; horns such as saxophones, trombones, trumpets; and even the banjo.
Career On February 21, 1928, he recorded two tracks in Atlanta, Georgia: "Lost Boy Blues" and "McAbee's Railroad Piece".
Background and release "The Frightened City" was composed by Norrie Paramor as title music to the gangster film The Frightened City, and it was performed by a studio orchestra.
Personnel Damon Albarn – vocals Stephen Sedgwick – mixing, recording Geoff Pesche – mastering == References ==
A similar piece entitled "Baby Blue Shuffle in D Major" appeared in a 2 December 1968 BBC radio broadcast and shared melodies with part one of "The Narrow Way" from Ummagumma, but it may have been rather a different – or even the same – take of "Unknown Song".
Later in the same decade (1949) it was recorded for Muzak by Alfredo Antonini and his orchestra in collaboration with Victoria Cordova and John Serry Sr.
On 26 May 1962, "Stranger on the Shore" became the first British recording to reach number one on the U.S.
Tracks 7–13 are older recordings (From 1939 to 1940), performed by the Alec Wilder Octet and not conducted by Sinatra, which were added in 1950 for the Columbia 12" (ML-4271).
It was also the last Shadows recording to feature bassist Brian Locking, who left the group before the release of their previous single "Geronimo", being replaced by John Rostill.
Retrospective commentators have focused on the playing of the individuals, with some considering the jam session among the best recorded work of several of its contributors.
So I understood that this was the way to go." If you just hear [Quiet Village] on record, it sounds like a whole jungle—you don't know how or where any of those sounds originated.
Glenn Miller was the host and conductor on the show, which also featured Ray McKinley, Jerry Gray, Johnny Desmond, and the Crew Chiefs, until June 10, 1944, when Harry Bluestone became the conductor.
Tommy Emmanuel recorded the song with the Australian Philharmonic Orchestra on his 1996 album, Classical Gas.
Drummer and lyricist Steve Hindalong said that, "Derri was a big fan of Brian Eno, and I remember that album Music for Films, and Music for Airports, that Eno did back in the late seventies.
Louis Blues" were issued in separate parts over two sides of a 78rpm ten-inch record each, whereas "Honeysuckle Rose" and "I Found a New Baby" – both by a group featuring Parry – appeared on one side each of a twelve-inch record.
About halfway through the track, the rest of the band joins in and it continues until the main "Teenbeat" piece begins.
And it was this quality that came to define Brian’s oeuvre as he moved beyond and into bigger pop productions that would culminate in Smile.
In 1962, Fowley secured the copyright to an arrangement of the march from Tchaikovsky's 1892 ballet The Nutcracker and took this to local entrepreneur and pianist H.
Background The New Orleans Rhythm Kings recorded "Bugle Call Rag" on August 29, 1922 in Richmond, Indiana for Gennett Records.
Former Shadows' drummer Tony Meehan was working at Decca as a producer and suggested to Harris that they team up.
"Wiggle Wobble" is an instrumental written by Les Cooper and performed by Cooper & the Soul Rockers.
Personnel John Petrucci – guitars Jordan Rudess – keyboards Doug Oberkircher – production, mixing == References ==
The English version of the song was recorded by Bing Crosby on 11 February 1945 with Xavier Cugat conducting the Waldorf-Astoria Orchestra.
The song was resurrected for the group's 1987–1989 A Momentary Lapse of Reason & Another Lapse Tours, where it became the opening number of the second set.
Form The composition is in four large sections, and sets out from the six pitches of the open strings of the guitar.
"Whiteman Stomp" is a 1927 jazz composition by musician and bandleader Paul Whiteman, Fats Waller, and Jo Trent.
Hardy won Juno Awards in 1976 and 1977 as instrumentalist of the year, and in 1976 as composer of the year.
It was taken from Preston's 1973 album Everybody Likes Some Kind of Music, and "Space Race" was awarded a gold record.
In addition to these recordings musicians such as Mike Wengren, Noah Bernardo and Sid Wilson also recorded for the song.
He learns it was arranged by a Cleveland organized-crime gang and tracks down the mobster responsible, killing a Mafia member in the process.
It was first presented as part of the television broadcast of the show in September 1984, was released as a single in 1985, and peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100.
It was then released on the European market with the title A Swingin' Safari in autumn of the same year.
However, John Schaefer, author of New Sounds: A Listener's Guide to New Music, referred to the piece as a "vacuous title" and claimed that Lynch possesses "limited ability on the synthesizer".
"YYZ" (natively pronounced WY-WY-ZED) is an instrumental rock composition by the Canadian rock band Rush from their 1981 album Moving Pictures.
Vincent Edward Gambella (July 28, 1932 – October 3, 2019), known as Vinnie Bell, was an American session guitarist, instrument designer and pioneer of electronic effects in pop music.
The song was written by guitarist Andy Summers and was the first one to be composed solely by him during his career in the Police.
Visconti later attested: "He'd never have a clue what he'd sing about until he actually walked in front of the microphone." Bowie usually completed his vocals in only one or two takes; Visconti provided backing vocals in the same fashion.
Other charting versions Bill Black's Combo rendition reached number 9 in 1960 in the Billboard Pop Chart, number 1 on the R&B chart, and number 16 in Canada.
Swedish DJ and record producer Avicii released three studio albums, six compilation albums, one remix album, one mix album, 56 singles, one promotional single and 29 music videos.
Background and reception Russ Conway recorded "China Tea" for EMI's Columbia Records on 7 July 1959, with accompaniment directed by Geoff Love.
song "Many Pieces of Large Fuzzy Mammals Gathered Together at a Rave and Schmoozing with a Brick" is based on this song.
It is essentially an instrumental, apart from the song's title being shouted at several points in the song.
The November 10, 1945 recording appeared on the 1992 UK album Major Glenn Miller's Army Air Forces Overseas Orchestra: American Patrol, Vol.
The song gets its name from an early working title for the album Falling into Infinity, and the parallel between the concepts of "stream of consciousness" and "train of thought".
A quotation in the Karl Edward Wagner novel Bloodstone (1975) pays tribute to the song: "several species of small furry animals gathered together in cave and grooving with a pict." Personnel Personnel per Paul Stump.
According to Hazan, "Rod decided to record the first take while I was still trying to practice the piece with the other musicians.
Footnotes References Sources External links Stevie Ray Vaughan – "Third Stone from the Sun" (from Live at the El Mocambo, 1991) on Vevo
Whilst the track is well known for its brass riff, the bassline of the track was also ranked by Stylus Magazine at number 40 in their 2005 list of the "Top 50 Basslines of All Time".
Composition The initial Columbia Records pressing of the single listed the title as "Bolero" and "Jeff Beck" as the composer.
Songs The medley, in two parts, contains the following songs: "If You Knew Susie" "The More We Are Together" "That's My Weakness Now" "Knees Up Mother Brown" "Daisy Bell" "Boomps-a-Daisy" "She Was One Of The Early Birds" "Three O'Clock in the Morning" == References ==
"Fire on High" is the opening instrumental track from the 1975 Electric Light Orchestra (ELO) album Face the Music.
Releases Singles "Six Pak" / "Good Grief" - Lynn 1302 - 1959 "Six Pak / "Good Grief" - Swingin' 620 - 1960 Compilations The Revels - Intoxica!!!
Personnel Van Morrison – piano Mark Isham – synthesizers Herbie Armstrong – acoustic guitar David Hayes – bass Peter Van Hooke – drums Notes References Brooks, Ken (1999), In Search of Van Morrison, Andover, Hampshire: Agenda, ISBN 1-899882-95-2 Heylin, Clinton (2003).
The song also recently finished second in Tomorrowland Radio Ones top 1000 songs ever played at Tomorrowland.
"Rebel Heart" is an instrumental by the Irish folk group The Corrs, taken from their third album In Blue (2000).
Ray McKinley, the drummer in the Dorsey Brothers band, recalled: "Glenn did write a few things for us.
The card game DropMix features a loop card called "Wipe Out", part of the Flawless playlist, that when placed in the board plays the guitar part of the song, albeit the sample is a cover made by Harmonix rather than the original.
However, the song is best known for the instrumental version released the following year by British group the Shadows which peaked at number 4 on the UK Singles Chart.
Since 1984, Because They're Young is the official theme music of the Flemish musical nostalgia radio show De Pré Historie.
Steve Vai debuted the song in Seville, Spain, during the "Leyendas de la Guitarra" (Guitar Legends) festival in 1991.
It was a hit in several countries, reaching number one in Italy and entering the top 10 in Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and UK.
The single was certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America, having sold two million units.
3 Bing Crosby recorded the song in 1957 for use on his radio show and it was subsequently included in the album Shall We Dance?
The song was put into regular use for ITV's children's series SMTV Live from 1998 to 2003, most particularly during the "Strippin' Vicar" and "Chums" sketches when the vicars such as one of the hosts Ant McPartlin and one of the guests Frank Skinner destroy the set.
Stalag Riddim is so widely known that even a brief quote of it can be used to signify a connection to Jamaican culture, like the sample of the horns in the Blackout Remix of "This Is Why I'm Hot" by Mims.
The Ventures released a version of the song on their 2009 compilation album with The Fabulous Wailers entitled Two Car Garage (50 Years of Rock 'N Roll).
After that Vinnie along with Perrey recorded several successful commercials, when Jean-Jacques got a contract with the Vanguard Records label.
Charts Weekly charts Year-end charts In popular culture The track was used in the 1979 film Being There starring Peter Sellers, as his character leaves home for the very first time.
The rest of the group, particularly co-founders Don Henley and Glenn Frey, were not keen on it being included on the album, which contributed to the friction in the band and Leadon quitting.
Also in 1960, the Davis lyric version was successfully released as a single by Joni James, charting at #38 on the Billboard' Hot 100, and as an album track by several artists including Ann-Margret and Pat Boone.
Several different musical elements of the recording have been sampled, including a squealing saxophone glissando that begins the piece, a two-note saxophone riff that occurs in the middle of the recording, and the underlying rhythmic groove that continues throughout.
Sutcliffe, John Lennon's close friend from art college, joined the band in 1960 as the bass player and played with them in Hamburg in 1960 and 1961 before leaving to concentrate on his art studies.
Other versions In 1963, a version by Lawrence Welk and His Orchestra, was released as the lead track on his album 1963's Early Hits.
Throughout the majority of the video, Hammer performs the theme in front of a projector screen playing footage from the TV series – including scenes of the Vice duo chasing him.
"Princess of China", a collaboration with singer Rihanna, was solicited to US mainstream radio on 14 February 2012 as the album's fourth single.
Structure and usage Distinctions of this song are that it is based on a single note (F-natural) and that it gradually slows down to a complete stop, marked by the sound of female moans, and then gradually speeding up.
Popular chart hit versions were recorded by Ray Anthony and his Orchestra (1953) and The Art of Noise (1987).
The personnel on the recording were Nick LaRocca, trumpet, Larry Shields, clarinet, Eddie Edwards, trombone, Henry Ragas, piano, and Tony Sbarbaro, drums.
See also List of number-one adult contemporary singles of 1964 (U.S.) References External links Listen to "Java" on YouTube (Al Hirt)
Two further songs from Calling Time were released as singles: "Crash & Burn" in June 2013, and the album's title track in September that year.
Music The track is simple and consists of melodies that were used later; the riff that starts to play at 1:54 is a faster tempo version of the "Funky Dung" section of "Atom Heart Mother Suite".
After a climactic shootout and lengthy car chase, Slaughter succeeds in killing Hoffo by incinerating him in a crashed vehicle.
An instrumental, instrumental music, or sometimes "instrumental song" is music without any vocals, although it might include some inarticulate vocals, such as shouted backup vocals in a big band setting.
The tune was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 2011, which honors "recordings of lasting qualitative or historical significance that are at least 25 years old".
The main instrument is Richard Wright's piano, which was overdubbed three different times (one in the left channel, one in the centre, and one in the right channel).
Meco again jousted with Williams a few months later, with both artists issuing competing versions of music from Close Encounters of the Third Kind, both reaching the US and Canadian Top 40, but with Williams's version being more successful than Meco's.
Notable recordings "Candlelights" has been recorded by Jess Stacy, Bunny Berigan, Bryan Wright, Geoff Muldaur's Futuristic Ensemble, Paul Mertz, Ralph Sutton, Oscar Pettiford with Tom Talbert, Tiger Dixie Band, Dick Hyman, Mike Polad, Joseph Smith, Bucky Pizzarelli, Patrick Artero, and Kenny Werner.
Taiji was playing a song by tapping, a technique he had learned by watching Akira Takasaki, when guitarist Hide asked him to teach it to him.
Excerpts from the instrumental's recording session were subsequently included on The Pet Sounds Sessions (1997).
He recorded them in one session on an out-of-tune guitar, with lyrics about subjects including ringworm and sandwiches.
Along with the album's title track and "Summer Dance", "Quiet Village" hit number one for three weeks on the disco/dance chart in 1977.
In 2020, group leader Dave Burgess resurrected The Champs and recorded 12 new tracks for an LP titled Tequila Party.
The piece's working title was "Study for Bassoon", but Osborne intended to make it playable on clarinet as well.
Herman and his orchestra featured in the 1942 film What's Cookin'?, playing "Golden Wedding", amongst other hits by them, as well as The Andrews Sisters and other contemporary musicians.
At the time "Calcutta" reached #1, Welk, who was 57, became the oldest artist to have a number one pop single in the U.S.
The following is a table of instrumental compositions composed or arranged and recorded by Tale Ognenovski: The column Year lists the year in which the instrumental composition was first recorded.
Notes References External links Dick Dale's Extensive Explanation at the Wayback Machine (archived September 27, 2007) (with guitar tabs and standard notation) Misirlou, from Klezmer to Surf Guitar (NPR Weekend Edition Sunday, January 8, 2006).
It evinces a jazz influence with especially prominent trombone slides, and evokes the feel of music used to accompany striptease artists.
The sessions took place at CBS's During the first day of the recording session, which occurred on 6 October 1968, Mick Fleetwood played his drum kit using timpani mallets, which were then panned to the left and right channels by Mike Ross, who engineered the session.
The live recording was made on June 10, 2000, at the Helen Hayes Performing Arts Center in Nyack, New York.
In 1963, he did a session with the French Jean-Jacques Perrey for Kai Winding, in which he played the guitar and Perrey played the Ondioline.
The 8 note sequence is played at a tempo of 165 BPM, while both filter frequency and resonance are modulated.
At Hansa however, he was assisted by in-house engineer Eduard Meyer, whom Visconti recalled was critical in maintaining a positive atmosphere.
Several covers of the instrumental have been released, including popular versions by Perfecto Allstarz and Thunderpuss.
External links Muskrat Ramble at JazzStandards.com Jubilee (Armed Forces Radio Network) at the Internet Archive; program #250 recorded between July and September 1947 includes Kid Ory's Creole Jazz Band performing "Muskrat Ramble" (7:05–10:30)
In 2021, Rolling Stone ranked "Cissy Strut" at number 158 on their "500 Greatest Songs of All Time" list, one of the handful of instrumentals to make the list.
After the release of The Collective, the group's third album and last to feature their original line-up, the band finally headlined their own tour in 2012, having been a supporting act on all tours up to that point.
Schiel, writing for Pitchfork commented on the band's assertion that the song should be considered alongside the Rock Action album, saying "this demonstration of might and dynamic is exactly what that album lacked" and "unlike Rock Action, this recording doesn't just push the envelope; it shoves".
Jazz trumpeter Bunny Berigan recorded it in 1939 and released it as a 78 single on RCA Victor, 26121-A.
It was a staple of live Yardbird performances with Jim McCarty usually providing a drum part and appears on the albums Live Yardbirds: Featuring Jimmy Page and Glimpses 1963–1968.
A second version by the Surfaris (with a different B side) was released in 1966 as Decca 32003 and again in 1973 as MCA 60055.
Jon Barlas of Our Generation Music wrote that "9lives' sound feels like you're fighting a final boss on the last level of Arkham Asylum, gripping your controller ever-so-tightly".
Meanwhile, a second lawsuit arose from one of the strains of "Dixieland Jass Band One-Step" being almost identical to the 1909 Joe Jordan number "That Teasin' Rag".
Chart history Floyd Cramer Al Hirt Later uses "Java" was used as the closing theme for Vision On, a British children's television programme, shown on BBC1 from 1964 to 1976, with Hirt's version featured until the early '70s, and Bert Kaempfert's rendering used thereafter.
Music video A music video to accompany the release of the vocal version was released on Spinnin' Records' YouTube channel on 9 August 2014 at a total length of three minutes and fifty-eight seconds.
Basshunter again worked with Simons on "Every Morning" and "I Promised Myself", the first single from Bass Generation, released on 28 September 2009.
In an obituary on Gadfly Online, former Rolling Stones manager Andrew Loog Oldham explained the credit: I made that up for the credits on those Stones albums—it was just a regular piano (or maybe an organ) miked differently.
Its infectious “[clap clap clap-clap-clap clap-clap-clap-clap] Let's Go!" chant became a favorite of cheerleaders and football fans worldwide.
In a review for Uncut magazine, Stephen Dalton agreed with the latter comparison, noting that the "galloping breakbeat euphoria and soaring vocals recall vintage Orbital." Some reviewers compared the song to the sound of Bicep's self-titled debut album, particularly the single "Glue".
Biography Early years Born in Chicago, Illinois, United States, As a child, he sang in his church's choir; he also played ukulele, banjo and accordion.
The video also shows shots of Fairlight CMI screens including the page R (sequencer) page and the waveform page.
"Sentimental" is a song by American Smooth jazz saxophonist Kenny G, released in 1993 by Arista Records from his sixth studio album, Breathless (1992).
Large parts of "The Grunt"'s melody and arrangement are borrowed, uncredited, from The Isley Brothers' song "Keep on Doin'", which was released earlier in the same year.
Wingy Manone recorded a new song entitled "Jumpy Nerves" on April 26, 1939, featuring Chu Berry on tenor saxophone that incorporated the riff from "Tar Paper Stomp" which was released as a 78 single that year on RCA Bluebird.
Track listing Casablanca — NBD 20146 — single-sided 12" Casablanca — NBD 956 — 7" single Charts References External links "Chase" at Discogs (list of releases)
32 on the Billboard R&B chart and spent three non-consecutive weeks atop the Billboard adult contemporary chart.
"The Frightened City" was the group's second recording of a film tune, having released a version of "Man of Mystery" in November 1960.
Jam band The Breakfast (founded as Psychedelic Breakfast in 1998) have taken their name from the song.
Maybe not up to the standard of some of their previous hits, but cleverly played, and with a driving beat.
A portion of the track from 3:30 to 3:50 contains a widely recognized drum break performed by Kenneth Scoggins, that has been sampled countless times in songs across several genres.
By this point in the London Town recording sessions, guitarist Jimmy McCulloch and drummer Joe English had left the band, so the songs were recorded by only McCartney, Linda McCartney and Denny Laine.
"Helicon 2" was featured on the Scottish Association for Mental Health's 2004 compilation album, One-In-Four.
It was released on 18 September 2000 by Sasha's vanity label at that time, Excession, through Deconstruction Records.
Cramer's recording inspired a number of successful cover versions, including a vocal adaptation by Conway Twitty.
The May 5, 1944 recording was later included on the 1996 album Glenn Miller: The Secret Broadcasts on RCA Victor, and on the 1995 compilation album Glenn Miller: The Missing Years.
The song from the film's opening, "Blue's Theme", an aggressive, repetitive and very catchy instrumental showcasing Allan's new fuzz (heavily distorted) guitar sound became their biggest hit (it was also one of the first songs Eddie Van Halen learned to play on brother Alex's guitar).
The complaint alleged that the tune for McDonald's signature song "I Feel Like I'm Fixin' to Die Rag"—specifically the chorus that begins, "And it's one, two, three, what are we fighting for?"—was lifted in part from "Muskrat Ramble".
Recording The recording of YYZ took place at Le Studio in Morin-Heights, Quebec, in the summer of 1980.
It also debuted at number one in his native Scotland, also becoming his second consecutive number one album in the country.
Live performances from this era are included on the Delicate Sound of Thunder video (1989), CD, LP, and cassette (1988) and the Pulse album (1995) (cassette & LP only) & video, DVD and blu-ray (1995/2006/2019 respectively).
Miller's written scores were assigned catalog numbers in a system that he and his arrangers had devised, and "7-0-5" is this score's number.
The song features a quick introduction to percussion and vibraphone, using a caravan-like drum sound to continue throughout the piece.
Singer Glenn Danzig has said he had been wanting to cover the song since 1979, so the version is in the style of his band of that era, the Misfits.
The Kaempfert version is also featured as the main theme in the Swedish game show called Vi i femman, where two teams of fifth-graders compete against each other.
A blues band often uses mostly songs that have lyrics that are sung, but during the band's show, they may also perform instrumental songs which only include electric guitar, harmonica, upright bass/electric bass and drum kit.
But there is a sense of bustling and coming and going and the grand emotion of that middle section of what airports can be.
in liner notes which accompanied its first CD issue: By the time I got to the album, Surfin’ USA, I was more experienced at producing.
The coda consists of backing strings continuing softly after the fourth section ends, fading to a close.
Jerone "Jasaan" Sanford, Russell Crimes – trumpet Fred Wesley – trombone Jimmy Parker – alto saxophone St.
We'd start with an idea then go in the wrong direction, and after an hour we'd say 'How did this start again?'" During the sessions for Low, Visconti became frustrated with the lack of studio staff present at the Château.
Background Although the songwriting credits are given to local singer Lanny Duncan and his brother Robert Duncan, Lanny had previously recorded the original demo of the song in 1961 as a member of the Starlighters (The Standells), featuring Tony Valentino on guitar and Jody Rich on bass.
The song contains a vocal sample from Israeli singer Ofra Haza's 1988 a capella track "Love Song", written by Bezalel Aloni.
"Outa-Space" is an instrumental recorded by Billy Preston that originally appeared on his 1971 A&M Records-debut album, I Wrote a Simple Song.
The song has appeared in the movies Stella Dallas (1937), Margie (1946), The Eddie Cantor Story (1953) and The Drowning Pool (1975).
The song also appears in the Gran Turismo HD Concept trailer for the PlayStation 3, and as DLC for the multi-platform game Rocksmith 2014.
9lives has an RIAA certified Gold single "I Love You Hoe" with Odetari, and was named in Rolling Stone Australia's Future of Music, a celebration of the most exciting and innovative artists from Australia and New Zealand.
In 1986, composer Mark Mothersbaugh incorporated the song and animal sounds into the prelude theme for the children's television program Pee-wee's Playhouse.
The end of the clip blacks out instead of segueing into "Time" as on the Delicate Sound of Thunder video.
Other recordings It was a live favourite when performed by prog-rockers Emerson, Lake & Palmer, whose single was also released in 1972.
The single was #1 for three non consecutive weeks on the Billboard's Hot Dance/Club Play chart, and crossed over to both the soul charts, peaking at No.
It was later remixed by Tim Hodgkinson and Frith at Cold Storage Studios in London in May and August 1980, and released by East Side Digital Records on the first CD release of Legend in 1991.
Recording and release The theme was released in the United Kingdom by CBS as a 7″ single (catalogue CBS 7469) on September 17, 1971; multiple national variants followed.
During the first recording session in February 1972, the French television station ORTF filmed a short segment of the band recording the album, including interviews with bassist Roger Waters and guitarist David Gilmour.
Released on February 10, 1969, 20/20 sold better than Friends, peaking at number 3 in the UK and reaching number 68 in the US.
Chart performance Spending a total of ten weeks in the charts, it peaked at #18 in the week of April 4, 1964.
As with all the tracks from the highly priced Songs by George Harrison volumes, "Hari's on Tour (Express)" is available unofficially on bootleg compilations such as Pirate Songs.
It entered Billboard's national Hot 100 at the end of December with its chart run continuing into 1963 when it peaked at #8, and at #28 on the U.S.
A group of graduate students in Boulder, Colorado, established an International Bacon Day celebration.
Goose confit is associated with the Béarn and Basque regions with their classic specialties of cassoulet and garbure, hearty and earthy dishes of confit and beans.
Before switching to vegetable oil with beef flavoring in 1990, McDonald's cooked its French fries in a mixture of 93% beef tallow and 7% cottonseed oil.
Baconnaise is a bacon-flavored, mayonnaise-based food spread that is ovo vegetarian and kosher certified.
Bacon bits are made from small, crumbled pieces of bacon; in commercial plants they are cooked in continuous microwave ovens.
Dry-cured Traditional dry cure hams may use only salt as the curative agent, although this is comparatively rare.
It is a particular speciality of delis serving Montreal-style smoked meat, where slices of the fatty cut are served in sandwiches on rye bread with mustard, sometimes in combination with other, leaner cuts.
Uses Since this piece generally consists of much skin, tendons and ligaments, it requires long cooking through stewing or braising to be made palatable.
Salumi (sg.: salume, pronounced [saˈluːme]) are Italian meat products typical of an antipasto, predominantly made from pork and cured.
Meats and other ingredients A variety of fresh meats may be used for making sausage, the most common are from beef, pork, lamb, chicken, turkey, and game.
International usage United States and territories Domestically, Spam's chief advantages were affordability, accessibility, and extended shelf life.
In a 1665 letter to the Director of New Netherland from the Island of Curaçao there is a request to send greens: "I request most amicably that your honors be pleased to send me seed of every sort, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, etc.
However, due to the use of saltpeter in food being banned, the modern approach is using German pork knuckles.
Besides the domestic manually or motor operated grinders, there are also grinders for butchery (table- or shop-grinders for example) and for the food industry.
Soppressata di Calabria enjoys protected designation of origin (PDO) status; the one produced in Acri and Decollatura is especially renowned.
When used, the recommended amount is a ratio of 4 oz for each 100 lb (1 kg for each 400 kg) of meat or 0.25% of the total weight of the meat.
In the second, the body circulates from the doorstep of a neighbour, to a horse, to the house of a peasant, to a sack, and into the hands of thieves who have stolen some bacon.
Sheep/lamb and hog are available in all packaging types due to the high demand and long length of pieces; due to the shorter length and much lower demand for beef casings they are primarily only available loose or in net packs either salted or in brine.
Confit country is divided roughly into regions where one type of meat predominates the confit preparations.
The Honey Baked Ham Company is a food retailer which sells hams, turkey breasts, and other pre-cooked entrées, side dishes, and desserts.
In southern parts of Italy such as Sicily, where fish are a more plentiful element of cuisine, involtini can sometimes be made with fish such as swordfish.
In 2012, a major change was made from the "all you can eat" bacon, which was included in the ticket price from years earlier, to a pay as you eat price structure.
Description For the price of an admission ticket, each attendee has been entitled to a T-shirt, a choice of bacon samples, and a koozie (an insulation-wrapping for a canned beverage, like beer or soda pop).
The Spam Games also occur in Guam, where locals sample and honor the best original, homemade Spam recipes.
The earliest form of the meat grinder was hand-cranked and forced meat into a metal plate that had several small holes, resulting in long, thin strands of meat.
It has been labelled as smoked tea (熏茶), smoky souchong, tarry lapsang souchong and lapsang souchong crocodile.
Chicago-based IRI reported sales of charcuterie types of packaged lunch meats reached $561 million in 2019, up 8.1% from the previous year.
Younger motsetta is described to be more fresh and tender, with a higher degree of maturation the cold cut becomes harder and more robust in flavour, making the meat darker in colour as well.
There is a "clamoring" for the bacon happy hour at Bad Decisions bar in Fells Point which includes a menu that is completely redone with bacon dishes and big bowls of bacon served on the bar (using up to 30 pounds of bacon in a two-hour period).
Composition It is generally recommended to diversify the items on a charcuterie board in terms of type (e.g.
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
While deep frying typically takes place at temperatures of 160–230 °C (325–450 °F), confit preparations are done at a much lower temperature, such as an oil temperature of around 90 °C (200 °F), or sometimes even cooler.
Tour After having worked at the Festival, some of its entertainers formed the Blue Ribbon Bacon Tour.
1989 Leuconostoc falkenbergense Wu and Gu 2021 Leuconostoc fallax Martinez-Murcia and Collins 1992 "Leuconostoc garlicum" Kim et al.
They are served with the main meal menu in view either in hot, room temperature or cold forms; when served hot they are brought out after all the guests arrive so that everyone gets to taste the dishes.
Techniques The temperature of the environment affects how quickly the piece must be completed to avoid the effects of melting; if the sculpting does not take place in a cold environment, then the sculptor must work quickly to finish the piece.
Mexico In Mexico, most cecina is of two kinds: sheets of marinated beef, and a pork cut that is sliced or butterflied thin and coated with chili pepper (this type is called cecina enchilada or carne enchilada).
Health concerns Studies have consistently found the consumption of processed meat to be linked to increased mortality, and to an increased risk of developing a number of serious health conditions including cancer, cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.
When probiotic lactobacilli are administered along with the treatment as an adjuvant, its efficacy is substantially increased and side effects may be lessened.
It is prepared using the Tongcheng pig and has been described as "the most prized ham in all of China".
According to William Roscoe Estep, Zwingli already held Reformation-oriented convictions for some time before the incident.
The differences between Tyrolean speck and bacon include different time lengths of smoking, the technique of curing it, and the fact that Tyrolean speck cures for a longer period of time than bacon does.
"Confit country" is the area of Occitan France, where goose fat is used for cooking, as opposed to olive oil, which is used in Provence, where olives were plentiful and thus cheap.
Figs and dates may be transformed into different products that can either be eaten as they are, used in recipes, or rehydrated.
Gervais is pelted with hot coals by cooks, assaulted by the crowd of servants at the feast, and dragged outside and thrown in a ditch with a dead dog, which parallels the medieval practice of hanging with dogs.
See also Media related to Pitina at Wikimedia Commons List of dried foods List of smoked foods == References ==
After being marinated the meat is left to rest in a cool place for a varying amount of time: in the case of homemade motsetta, the meat is flavoured for up to 20 days.
Properties The quality of salami is dependent on the quality of the raw materials and the level of technology used in its production.
It served Northern Italian inspired cuisine, focusing primarily on charcuterie, pizza, and seafood and emphasizing dishes that are less well known.
In Maharashtra, especially in the northern Khandesh region, vangyache bharit (वांग्याचें भरीत) as they call it is served in social gatherings including wedding ceremonies.
Sour and spicy sauces are served on the side, especially a Hmong sauce made with Thai chilies called "pepper dip".
The exact conditions depend on which nitrogen oxides are used, and what the oxidant is, as the conditions need to be carefully controlled to avoid over oxidation of the nitrogen atom.
Lactobacilli characteristically cause existing carious lesions to progress, especially those in coronal caries.
The name Leuconostoc comes from Greek adjective leukos meaning clear; and the word nostoc gelatinous colonies, Leuconostoc - colorless nostoc.
A recipe for mumbar (stuffed intenstine) appears in the 19th century Ottoman cookbook Melceü't-Tabbâhîn.
The meal will usually be rounded out with various pickles (such as mango, lime, and lemon) as well as raita, a palate-cooling yogurt dish/condiment (similar to Greek tzatziki) with many forms, including mint, mango or cucumber preparations.
This term encompasses dishes like braciole (a roulade consisting of beef, pork or chicken usually filled with Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs and eggs) and saltimbocca.
While charcuterie boards are common appetizers in restaurants today, they continue to find popularity in private gatherings like house and dinner parties due to their ease of preparation.
Manufacturers developed powered machines as electricity became more accessible, and modern electric meat grinders can process several pounds of meat easily and uniformly.
When using cure, it is very important to never exceed the recommended amount of 2.5 grams of Prague powder #1 in 1 kilogram of meat (4 ounces/100 pounds).
Meat confit Confit of goose (confit d'oie) or duck (confit de canard) is usually prepared from the legs of the bird.
A garde manger (French: [gaʁd mɑ̃ʒe]) is a cool, well-ventilated area where savory cold dishes (such as salads, hors d'œuvres, appetizers, canapés, pâtés, and terrines) are prepared and other foods are stored under refrigeration.
Varieties Soppressata di Basilicata is mainly produced in Rivello, Cancellara, Vaglio, and Lagonegro.
Huldrych Zwingli, who was present during the event, later defended the act by arguing that fasting should be a matter of personal choice, as the Bible does not mandate abstaining from certain foods during Lent.
The recipe includes crumbled bacon strips, liquid rendered bacon fat, canola oil, egg yolks, and Dijon mustard with water and lemon juice.
Around the world Australia and New Zealand The most common form sold is middle bacon, which includes some of the streaky, fatty section of side bacon along with a portion of the loin of back bacon.
Mattha is similar to Chaas, which is also called chhanch or ghol, but spicier and is known as Mohi in Nepal.
Hurdle technology uses low doses of multiple food preservation techniques in order to ensure food is not only safe but is desirable visually and texturally.
Methods Ham is produced by curing raw pork by salting, also known as dry curing, or brining, also known as wet curing.
This sausage was introduced to Malaysia and Southern Thailand by Cham refugees who migrated from conflict-stricken Indochina during the 1970s.
Its manufacture varies depending on the skill and experience of the meat manufacturer rather than a process solely based on scientific and technological means of production.
Compared to traditional pork ham, turkey ham is typically lower in calories, total fat, and cholesterol, making it a popular choice for those seeking lower-fat or pork-free alternatives.
See also Erk al sous Kharoub Qamar Al Deen Tamr Hindi Levantine cuisine References External links Media related to Jallab at Wikimedia Commons
Mattha (Bhojpuri: 𑂧𑂰𑂘𑂰, romanized: Māthā, Bengali: মাঠা, romanized: Māṭhā, Hindi: मट्ठा, romanized: Maṭṭhā) is a beverage that originates from the Indian subcontinent.
Hmong sausage is typically grilled at a low heat and served as large slices with steamed white rice or purple sticky rice (another signature Hmong dish), pan-fried with blanched cabbage, or with pho soup.
According to tradition, they are prepared in the dry season around December–March and consumed in greater quantities during the monsoon/wet season, when fish is scarce.
The main advantage of IC is its ease and the simultaneous analysis of all the anions present in the aqueous sample.
Types by method of application Cold smoking Cold smoking differs from hot smoking in that it does not cook anything; when cold smoking is finished, the food is still raw.
The sausage is often made at home; however it has become increasingly brought at markets and even supermarkets.
See also List of meat substitutes Vegetarian hot dogs Vegetarian sausage Meat-free sausage roll Food portal == References ==
Regulations In the European Union, the labelling of pancetta is regulated under the protected designation of origin (PDO) regime.
Pellicles of protein that form prior to smoking meat (including fish and poultry) allow smoke to better adhere to the surface of the meat during the smoking process.
Choris-Pão has the sausages chopped (sometimes with onions and a dash of curry) and placed inside a Poi or the local bun, a chewier form of the western Indian Pav, and is a popular fast food sold by vendors during religious fairs or in cafés.
While another theory suggests the name came from a Turkish Cypriot street vendor called "Şef Ali" (Chef Ali), who sold a kebab called "Şef Ali kebabı,"(Chef Ali's Kebab), which eventually became "Şeftali kebabı" and then Sheftalia.
The traditional means, referred to as Zheng Shan Xiao Zhong, is to entirely process the leaves within the smoke house, equivalent to a cold smoke, though most of the smoke flavouring is instilled during the final drying phase.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
National competition The national organization of butchers, Slavakto, organizes a competition to determine the best Zeeuws spek in the country.
Nitrite-containing processed meat is associated with increased risk of developing colorectal cancer.
The Goan sausage is therefore of Iberian origin and related to the Spanish Chorizo, both of which go through a process called pimenton.
Along with hardtack and corned beef, salt pork was a standard ration for many militaries and navies throughout the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, seeing usage in the American Civil War, War of 1812, and the Napoleonic Wars, among others.
Its origin has been placed in either Tijuana or Hermosillo, as the Sonoran hot dog where it was originally served in a bolillo instead of a hot dog bun.
In addition, implementation of many further processing steps by concentration, dilution, distillation, extraction, and use of food additives has led to the many hundreds of different products on the market worldwide.
Prior to the British East Indian Company's adoption of the terms black and green to categorize teas, the tea leaves coming from the Wuyi Mountains area were referred to as bohea, with souchong (小种) referring to a different grade.
Typically, a sausage is formed in a casing traditionally made from intestine, but sometimes from synthetic materials.
In some areas it is called studen' (студень) or studenets (Ukrainian: студенець, romanized: studenets), derived from a different root with a similar meaning.
Hard-boiled eggs, bacon, shrimp, and cheeses may be used as garnishes, but large amounts of animal-based foods would be more likely in a dinner salad.
Smith, in his 2006 book The Turkey: An American Story, notes that turkey products (including turkey bacon) contain, on average, twice as much sodium as the pork products that they replace.
Medication impurities There have been recalls for various medications due to the presence of nitrosamine impurities.
Since then, bacon-focused events and gatherings celebrating the food have been reported and bacon-related exploits have been featured in the media.
In the Mid-Atlantic States, in rural regions settled by the Pennsylvania Dutch, hocks are a commonly used ingredient for making a kind of meat loaf called scrapple.
The Portland Monthly noted that "Bacon is such a quintessential breakfast staple, even vegetarians stake a claim to their own versions." A website called "Bacon Today" was started to provide updates about bacon related happenings.
Dipping products in diluted solutions or soaking them in brines containing liquid smoke followed by heating was done long before the modern industrial era using Wright's liquid smoke and pyroligneous acid precursors.
In nouvelle cuisine, which shifted the standard food presentation approach from larger platters to individually pre-portioned plates, the garde manger is often responsible for arranging food decoratively on the plates.
Around January 1980, the American Meat Institute tried to ban use of the term "turkey ham" for products that are composed solely of turkey and contain no pork.
Because of interferences with the brown color of dissolved organic matter (DOM: humic and fulvic acids) often present in soil pore water, artefacts can easily affect the absorbance values.
The meat is then separated from the bones, minced, recombined with the broth, dressed with the slices of boiled egg and herbs like parsley and cooled until it solidifies into a jelly.
It is often added to soups, such as pea and ham soup, with the meat being added to the soup prior to serving.
Common sides to accompany the Texas hot link include sliced white bread, crackers, orange cheese, onion slices and pickles.
Dyeing In Japan, the extract of smoked plums (ubai) is used as a mordant for the natural red dye derived from safflower (benibana).
In comparison with standard bacon, which is prepared with pork, the product is naturally lower in fat and calories and is commonly marketed for these qualities.
In Russia, the pâté is served on a plate or in a bowl, and is typically moulded into the shapes of animals, such as hedgehogs.
They are sometimes served as appetizers or as an ingredient in the preparation of various dishes and appetizers.
Jallab or jellab (Arabic: جلاب, romanized: jallāb) is a type of fruit syrup popular in the Levant made from carob, dates, grape molasses, and rose water.
The author says that only two couples successfully claimed the flitch in a century: The first was a sea captain and his wife, who since the day of their marriage had not seen each other till the day of the claim.
Varieties There are numerous varieties of French pâtés or terrines, including: Parfait Chicken liver parfait is a subtype of pâté.
Infused smoked salts like smoked bacon chipotle sea salt are very popular because of their flavor profiles.
Dehydration has been used widely for this purpose since ancient times; the earliest known practice is 12,000 B.C.
Some chefs and recipes utilise seasonal mashed pumpkin, squash or sweet potato for added thickness and flavour.
In 2019, the company launched its 'Beyond Burger 2.0', which was a 'meatier' design with less saturated fat than the original product.
A notable sandwich with Zeeuws spek is made in Vermaat restaurant, in IJsselstein; Ronald van der Kruk uses Zeeuws spek, bacon, katenspek (bacon which is boiled before it is smoked), and ontbijtspek ("breakfast bacon").
Speck can refer to a number of European cured pork products, typically salted and air-cured and often lightly smoked but not cooked.
Other Swedish sausages include prinskorv, fläskkorv, köttkorv and isterband; all of these, in addition to falukorv, are often accompanied by potato mash or rotmos (a root vegetable mash) rather than bread.
History Mombar originated in Ottoman cuisine, and eventually spread into Iraqi, Egyptian, and Levantine cuisine.
It is made with minced beef and tallow, marinated with garlic, salt, chillies and spices, and stuffed into cow's or buffalo's small intestines.
Hams can only be labeled "honey-cured" if honey was at least 50% of the sweetener used, is at least 3% of the formula, and has a discernible effect on flavour.
For example, in Du provost a l'aumuche a provost hides some bacon that he has stolen from a feast prepared for his master under his hat (the "aumuche" of the title, a large fur hat), but is caught and beaten after the bacon fat, melted by a nearby fire, starts to drip down his head.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
Curing is done using a spice and salt mixture containing nitrates or nitrites, which act to extend the shelf life of cured meats.
The Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America states that the product was intended to increase the sale of pork shoulder, a cut which did not sell well.
Leuconostoc is a genus of gram-positive bacteria, placed within the family of Leuconostocaceae, order Lactobacillales.
The Zurich sausage affair was interpreted as a demonstration of Christian liberty and is considered to be of similar importance for Switzerland as Martin Luther's 95 theses in Wittenberg for the German Reformation.
Boiled bacon is ready-to-eat, as is some smoked bacon, but they may be cooked further before eating.
One of the Tour's regular participants, Heather Lauer, appeared on the 2009 Tour's stop in Pittsburgh; there, for thirty dollars, participants could compete in a bacon-eating contest and (without additional cost) taste bacon-samples from vendors.
These are mainly spices and condiments, with an increasing segment of fresh fruit irradiated for fruit fly quarantine.
Slovenia In Slovenia, aspic is known as žolca (derived from the German sülze, meaning head cheese) or tlačenka in Slovene.
These may be made from tofu, seitan, nuts, pulses, mycoprotein, soya protein, vegetables or any combination of similar ingredients that will hold together during cooking.
This was followed by the introduction of a sausage-links version in the USA in October 2020 and Canada in September 2021.
Analysis of nitrite Nitrite is detected and analyzed by the Griess Reaction, involving the formation of a deep red-colored azo dye upon treatment of a NO−2-containing sample with sulfanilic acid and naphthyl-1-amine in the presence of acid.
This guild system was eliminated by Napoléon Bonaparte around the time of the turn of the 19th century.
At the time, the months-long journey from China to Europe necessitated preservation methods and the partial oxidation of this Wuyi tea, an oolong tea graded as bohea or souchong, was better able to preserve its quality.
Job requirements As with most hands-on cooking positions, a garde manger chef needs fine motor skills and physical stamina, as well as cooking skills and knowledge of food safety.
Founded by members of the Iowa Bacon Board, the festival sold 200 tickets to the first festival in 2008.
History The preserving of pork leg as ham has a long history, with traces of production of cured ham among the Etruscan civilisation known in the 6th and 5th century BC.
Another common type of pâté in Jewish cuisine, also popular in Russia and Ukraine, is vorschmack, or gehakte herring (chopped herring).
Preparation and serving Tung lamaow is made using specific cuts of beef, primarily the tougher thigh muscle, as well as fat from the cow's stomach lining and intestines.
Caesar salad, chef salad, Cobb salad, Chinese chicken salad, Michigan salad, and Pittsburgh salad are dinner salads.
Since different species of trees have different ratios of components, various types of wood do impart a different flavor to food.
This status is assigned only to selected products obtained according to traditional methods and in specific geographical areas.
Religious restrictions on pork The popularity of turkey bacon is also attributed to the fact that pork consumption is not permissible in Judaism and Islam, nor among Christian sects that consider Jewish law to still be binding.
Other methods There are many different methods for drying, each with its own advantages for particular applications.
It is the most common cut of bacon used in British and Irish cuisine, where both smoked and unsmoked varieties of bacon are found.
City ham is the name for a variety of brine-cured hams that are not dry-cured or dried, so must be refrigerated for safe storage.
Potassium nitrite and potassium nitrate additions allow the production of sausages with lower levels of sodium.
The best known cecina is Cecina de León, which is made of the hind legs of a cow, salted, smoked and air-dried in the provinces of León and Palencia in northwestern Spain, and has PGI status.
They may also be cooked in a wide variety of non-pottery terrine moulds, such as stainless steel, aluminium, enameled cast iron, and ovenproof plastic.
Meduna was one of several Friulian entrepreneurs who adapted Italian culinary tradition and created a new market and industry for salami.
Sheftalia (locally [ʃeftaˈʎa]; Greek: σεφταλιά; Turkish: Şeftali Kebabı) is a traditional sausage that originated in Cyprus.
This line of quotation stems from American poet John Godfrey Saxe, who said "Laws, like sausages, cease to inspire respect in proportion as we know how they are made" (1869).
Additionally, turkey bacon serves as a substitute for standard bacon in cases where pork consumption is forbidden by religious doctrine, such as Judaism and Islam.
Nutritional value Two strips (around 28 grams or 1 ounce) of Butterball-made turkey bacon contain 3 grams of fat and 50 calories (32% of which from fat); turkey bacon produced from Louis Rich and Mr.
Limosilactobacillus reuteri has been used as a model organism to evaluate the host-adaptation of lactobacilli to the human and animal intestine and for the recruitment of intestinal lactobacilli for food fermentations.
A scallop is a common name applied to many species of marine bivalve mollusks in the family Pectinidae, the scallops.
Their herds of sheep and pigs were so many, they could provide skins and salt meat not only for Rome, but also for most of Italy.
The smoke shed has several upper floors or lofts made of wooden slats where leaves can be laid out, allowing batches to be closer or farther from the source heat and smoke.
Other cuisines In Moroccan cuisine, paprika (tahmira) is much used in dishes such as bissara and chermoula.
See also Vallée d'Aoste Lard d'Arnad References External links Lardo in the online Culinary Heritage of Switzerland database.
Its popularity among Filipinos has led to the creation of a version with sugar and annatto—Spam with tocino seasoning, made for the overseas Filipino market in the US and Canada.
His first rift with the established religious authorities in Switzerland occurred during the Lenten fast of 1522, when he was present during the eating of sausages at the house of Christoph Froschauer, a printer in the city who later published Zwingli's translation of the Bible.
Moreover, these meals evolved and found their way to higher society with the cheese course of formal dinners in 18th and 19th century France, Great Britain, and colonial America.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, especially game, including venison and pheasant, and may also be used to insulate or flavour roast joints by being layered onto the meat.
Following the March 2011 earthquake, Spam sales in Japan declined, and Hormel shifted its focus to China, although Hormel did pledge to donate $100,000 along with cans of Spam for relief efforts.
The sausages are also crumbled or cut and added to curries, stews, chilly fry (a sautée of vegetables and meat, usually beef), and pulão or pulav for flavour and animal protein in Goan households.
In the Appalachian Mountains, it is common to add ham hocks along with chopped onion and spices to pots of pinto beans to make the meal more hearty.
Cured cooked sausages Cured sausages differ from fresh sausages by including 2 teaspoons of cure (Prague powder #1) per 10 pounds of finished product.
Beyond meats, cheeses, and breads, other components are often included to complement the flavors and textures of these foods.
Smoked salt differs from smoke-flavored salt, as the latter contains a smoke-flavored additive, and is not classified as a natural salt product.
Canned adobo sauce is the most common form in the United States of America, though its marinade or food preservative form originated in Spain.
The fruit is spherical or oblate, around 2–3 centimetres (0.79–1.18 in) long and 1.5–2 centimetres (0.59–0.79 in) in diameter.
Other Friulian butchers followed suit in the seasonal production of winter salami, including the Del Medico brothers, the Guglielmini, Suberca, Molinari, Boschetti, Forgiarini, Dozzi, Vidoni and Venturini.
Ham hocks are essential ingredients for the distinct flavor in soul food and other forms of American Southern country cooking.
A hot link (also "red link", "Louisiana red hot" or "Louisiana hot link") is a type of sausage used in the cuisine of the Southern United States, and a part of American barbecue, soul food, and Cajun and Louisiana Creole cuisines.
There is no standard recipe for Hmong sausage, but the key ingredients are coarse ground fatty pork cuts such as pork belly and pork shoulder, Thai chili peppers, lemongrass, kaffir lime leaf or lime juice, and fresh ginger root or galangal.
The local variety of chistorra available in the province of León is called Chistorra de León and is made with a larger percentage of beef.
The earliest surviving record of the flitch being awarded, from the cartulary of Dunmow Priory, dates to 1445, some time after the custom was mentioned by Langland and Chaucer.
The term is usually used in modern cuisine to mean long, slow cooking in fat at low temperatures, many having no element of preservation, such as in dishes like confit potatoes.
Nitric oxide can be created de novo from nitric oxide synthase utilizing arginine or from ingested nitrite.
These are minced together, then stuffed in large sausage casings and smoked, creating a soft large sausage, which is then aged for 3–6 months.
This minced beef is then combined with fat in a 1:5 ratio, creating a rich mixture that is packed into cleaned cow intestines.
Poland In Central, Eastern, and Northern Europe, aspic often takes the form of pork jelly and is popular around the Christmas and Easter holidays.
Salo is often chopped into small pieces and fried to render fat for cooking, while the remaining shkvarky (a type of cracklings) are used as condiments for fried potatoes or varenyky or spread on bread as a snack.
With the development of classical French cuisine under the influence of François Pierre La Varenne and his 1651 book Le cuisinier françois, the garde manger also took on fresh fruits and vegetables.
Each year, at the festival, Hans Mantinger "Gletscherhons", a master in the art of slicing speck, presents his surprise creations.
It is usually baked, fried or grilled and often accompanies other dishes, sometimes as part of tapas.
See also Salt pork Szalonna, Hungarian salt pork Lardo, Italian salt pork Charcuterie Notes References Further reading Viktoriya Popovych, There Is No Ukraine Without Salo: An Analysis of the Cultural and Social Significance of Salo in Ukraine, Compass, 2023, vol 3, issue 1, pp.
Notable Japanese ice sculptors include Yukio Matsuo, author of "Ice Sculpture: Secrets of a Japanese Master," Mitsuo Shimizu, author of several Japanese books on ice sculpture, and Junichi Nakamura, winner of multiple world ice sculpting titles.
Blamed for causing the 'stink' when creating a sourdough starter, some species are also capable of causing human infection.
In cuisine As an ingredient, fatback is a preferred fat for various forms of charcuterie, particularly sausages and forcemeats for pâtés and terrines.
It is made from caul fat, or omentum, the membrane that surrounds the stomach of pig or lamb, to wrap the ingredients rather than sausage casing.
Lardo di Colonnata is included in the Ark of Taste catalog of heritage foods and has been a protected geographical indication (PGI) since 2004.
He was a member of the Hungarian Armed Forces Association and one of the founders of the Hungarian Industry Association.
In 1964, he graduated from UC-Davis with a degree in winemaking and grape growing, and a mission to find an appropriate place to grow Pinot noir outside of Burgundy.
King set up a business in "King Street" Sydney, including glass and other merchandise that he had brought with him.
Local authorities The local administration in Qana is headed by a Municipal Council composed of 15 members and headed by Dr.
He passed the final period of the Spanish Civil War in 1939 working in an airplane factory, helping construct Polikarpov planes for the aerial forces of General Francisco Franco.
However, the 1838 census records the exceptionally wealthy Gligore as an ethnic Romanian and a squire (fecior de neam), meaning he could trace his lineage to the highest-ranking boyars, and enjoyed boyar privilege.
James King (1800 – 29 November 1857) was a Scottish-Australian who was important in the establishment of the wine industry in Australia.
delbrueckii species has been domesticated for winemaking and other human uses about 1900 and 4000 years ago respectively.
See also List of Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée wines Wine label History of Wine French wine Footnotes References J.
Irvine became influential in the wine business in the Great Western area, buying two thirds of local produce in the early 1890s and distilling a considerable amount into brandy.
Prince Juan Jorge de Bagration-Mukhrani (born 18 August 1977) is a Spanish-born Georgian prince and member of the House of Mukhrani of the Bagrationi dynasty and a distant relation to the Spanish royal family.
Dubourdieu specialized in winemaking processes for white wines, and has been called "wine's most famous scientist".
Amy and her husband Joel are partners in Palisades Wine Company in Calistoga where they make their wines.
Champagne's AOC also requires vintage Champagnes age 3 years before disgorgement, but most top producers hold bottles on lees for 6–8 years.
Disgorging The lees removal process is called disgorging (dégorgement in French), traditionally a skilled manual process where the crown cap and lees are removed without losing much of the liquid, and a varying amount of sugar added.
In 1949, he gave one of his red wines to Émile Peynaud, a French oenologist who was collaborating with Casa Ferreirinha at the time.
Moreover, Lornet makes a wine from the rare Trousseau grape he calls Trousseau des Dames, a unique Vin de Paille and some Macvin.
1 In the opening chorus, "Ach Gott, wie manches Herzeleid" (Ah, God, how much heartache), the cantus firmus is in the bass, which is doubled by the trombone, as in Ach Herr, mich armen Sünder, BWV 135.
He emigrated to Australia at the age of 21, initially spending time at the Palmer River Goldfields in the colony of Queensland.
By 2007, McNab Ridge was part of a cooperative venture named Coro Mendocino, with a number of local wineries producing red blends under the Coro label, all with Mendocino-grown grapes.
Another disadvantage from a time perspective but an advantage in other regards such as gentleness, is that by its nature pressing with a basket press is very slow.
The Trifon Zarezan celebration is also known by various other names: The day of the wine makers, St.
He was born into a prosperous family with origins in the high-ranking boyardom, either in his father's village of Budișteni, Muscel County, or in nearby Pitești, Argeș County.
Most Christian churches, including the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, have adopted the New Julian calendar since 1968.
Since 1994, he has owned Orfila Vineyards and Winery, an award-winning vineyard in the San Pasqual Valley, in Escondido, California.
He co-founded Silk & Textile Printers Pty Ltd and later founded Sheridan, a home furnishings brand that became a leading name in Australian textiles.
Thomas Henry Fiaschi (Italian: Tommaso Enrico Fiaschi; 31 May 1853 – 17 April 1927) was an Italian-Australian surgeon.
It took her six years of research and planning to prepare the right procedure and the correct concoction.
She left Hattingley Valley in 2022 and currently works as an independent consultant winemaker, releasing her first wines in 2024 (from the 2009 vintage).
There are several potential causes of a stuck fermentation; the most common are an excessively high temperature killing off the yeast, or a must deficient in the nitrogen food source needed for the yeast to thrive.
Bill Harlan (born 1940) is an American entrepreneur and vintner who founded and owns Harlan Estate, Promontory and BOND wineries in the Oakville AVA of the Napa Valley, California.
That same year, he appeared in Kit Kittredge: An American Girl, for which he won the Young Artist Award Best Performance in a Feature Film – Young Ensemble Cast with his co-stars.
A coaching stop and hostelry, the inn lay about 7 miles north of Ellisland Farm, Burns's home before the family moved into Dumfries.
If he buys already fermented wine in barrels or en-vrac—basically in bulk containers, he may age the wine further, blend in other wines or simply bottle and sell it as is.
His paternal grandmother, Infanta María de las Mercedes of Spain was a member of the Spanish royal family and the German House of Wittelsbach; she was the daughter of Prince Ferdinand of Bavaria, granddaughter of Alfonso XII of Spain, and niece of Alfonso XIII of Spain.
Achievements Matthiasson has been named Winemaker of the Year by both Food and Wine Magazine and the San Francisco Chronicle, and is a co-author of the California Code of Sustainable Winegrowing.
Excessive phenols in base wine result in partial oxidation, which impairs the flavor and aroma of the final product.
A guidebook written by Theodosius between 517 and 527 CE titled The Layout of the Holy Land identifies Khirbet Kana and indicates that two of the vessels were still at the location.
If the analyst uses the Plato tables (maintained by the American Society of Brewing Chemists) they report in °P.
Other compounds involved The metabolism of amino acids and breakdown of sugars by yeasts has the effect of creating other biochemical compounds that can contribute to the flavor and aroma of wine.
The central broad-wave soil-climatic zone is located on ordinary and southern micellar-carbonate chernozems.
He was also on the advisory board of the Instituto dos Vinhos do Douro e do Porto from its beginning, and played a leading role in the Association of Port Wine Companies.
Charles Louis Back is the third-generation owner of South African wine and cheese producer Fairview, in Paarl in the Western Cape province.
To macerate is to soften by soaking, and maceration is the process by which the red wine receives its red color, since raw grape juice (with the exceptions of teinturiers) is clear-grayish in color.
In the early 1990s, he moved from Saint John to Bedford, Nova Scotia; he lives in Gaspereau, Nova Scotia.
A 1982 resolution he supported, asserting Argentina's claims on the Falkland Islands, resulted in a policy embarrassment for the OAS after Falklands War ended in disaster.
Christian Bizot (1928 – 7 July 2002) was a French winemaker, the head of the Bollinger Champagne house, and the fifth generation to run the family business.
In years where the harvest is exceptional, a vintage (millesime) is declared and the wine must mature for at least three years.
In an interview with The Sydney Morning Herald he stated he had been influenced to enlist by the Italian defeat at the Battle of Adwa and his support for the principles of Young Italy, believing that it would be "dishonorable to allow the slaughtered sons of Italy to go unrevenged".
Career at SRI Bennion started his career at Stanford Research Institute (SRI) where he specialized in Magnetic Circuits.
The most important metric among winemakers are digital blends and a taste index which predicts 100-point scores of consumer critics such as Robert Parker.
Torulaspora delbrueckii is the most studied species of the genus Torulaspora that comprises eight species to date, including T.
CNBC-18 (a TV channel) made a short story for the International Women's Day 2019 for special telecast.
Biography Cullen was born on 22 November 1922 in the Western Australian town of Bunbury as the younger son of Alfred, an English-born surgeon, and his locally born wife Elvie (née Clarke).
Measuring must weight Must weights are commonly measured in the vineyard to monitor the ripeness of the grapes, which helps select the time of harvest.
On April 25, 1826, he stopped paying his father the pension he owed, and all his properties were mortgaged.
Born the eighth of nine siblings, he was the son of Amédée de Lur Saluces, and of Eléonore de Chabannes la Palice, niece of Bertrand de Lur Saluces and the daughter of Eugène de Lur-Saluces.
Family Edward Montgomrey Martin (26 January 1807 – 3 June 1894), a first cousin of James Montgomrey of Brentford, married Ann Thornton (12 October 1809 – 31 July 1901) on 6 June 1835.
Following this advice, in 1950 Almeida visited the main French wine-growing regions of Burgundy and Bordeaux, as well as Rioja in Spain, in order to study the fermentation techniques used there, which were different from those used in Portugal.
The cylinder rotates during the process to help homogenize the pressure that is placed on the grapes.
In Côte-Rôtie, the red variety Syrah and the aromatic white variety Viognier (up to 20% is allowed, but 5–10% is more common) must be co-fermented, if Viognier is used.
With very acidic grapes like Sangiovese this process will temper some of the harshness and volatility in the wine.
Innovations proposed by Dubourdieu include organic farming, oak barrel fermentation with extended skin contact and improved bottling techniques.
However, as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the primary yeast for both beer and wine, can not utilize proline in the anaerobic conditions of ethanol fermentation it is not included in FAN (and subsequently YAN) calculations.
In 1851 he served as an apprentice winemaker for Agoston Haraszthy and then John Patchett before establishing his own winery.
See also List of Test cricket umpires List of Victoria first-class cricketers References External links Curtis Reid at ESPNcricinfo
At the time, Casa Ferreirinha was concentrating on making red Vinho Verde for the Brazilian market but Almeida felt that there was scope to use the grape varieties normally used for Port wine, which is a fortified wine, to make good unfortified table wine.
In 2018, she was honored with the Women Transforming India Awards, organized by the United Nations and NITI Aayog.
Lett grew up on a farm in Holladay, Utah earned a degree in philosophy and pre-med at the University of Utah.
Bacon installed the bed at Brownhill and showing his business acumen, charged customers and others to see it.
in 1958 and to Japan in 1960, he formed an influential K Street lobbying firm in 1962, specializing in the interests of U.S.
In this capacity, he moved quickly to repair the OAS's relationship with its most important member, the United States.
Other historical evidence from the Byzantine and Medieval periods show that Khirbet Kana was regarded as the true site of New Testament Cana from a very early period.
In late 2003 'PLW' became the subject of a heated bidding war between UK-based Allied Domecq and Swiss based Hess Group.
Other functions He was vice-president of the supervisory board of Château Ducru-Beaucaillou from 1999 to 2020.
As of late 2007 the price for a standard American oak barrel was US$600 to 800, French oak US$1200 and up, and Eastern European US$600.
The chapter which depicts the wedding also includes Petrescu's speculation about the Turnavitus' ancestry.
These steps will each have their own subtle or dramatic effect on the resulting flavors and quality of the wine.
During the course of his life he received several honours and decorations: Cross of Naval Merit with White Decoration awarded by the King of Spain for his dedication to sailing.
However, China lost to Lithuania in the quarterfinals by 26 points, eliminating them from the tournament.
In 2017, she co-founded the Académie du Chenin, an organization focused on research and promotion of the Chenin Blanc grape.
The yeast in these beers tends to settle to the bottom of the storage tank naturally, so the sediment from these beers can often be filtered without using isinglass.
Their son, Curtis Arthur Reid (1876–1912), a surveyor, played Australian rules football at the highest level in Perth (with Rovers Football Club and East Fremantle Football Club) and in Melbourne (with Melbourne Football Club).
History One of the earliest extant visual representations of the practice appears on a Roman Empire sarcophagus from the 3rd century AD, which depicts an idealized pastoral scene with a group of Erotes harvesting and stomping grapes at Vindemia, a rural festival.
Trifon is also known in other Balkan countries, it is affixed with the Orthodox calendar and is associated with the change of seasons from winter to spring.
Chapter two opens with Jesus, his mother and his disciples present in Galilee, in the village of Cana.
Previously, during her role as head winemaker at Hattingley Valley, she became the first woman to win the UKVA Winemaker of the Year twice.
He would go on to make single-vineyard wines from many other varieties including: Chardonnay, Ruby Cabernet, Riesling and Cabernet Franc.
At the end of the 1980s of the last century, the Odesa region produced 3.2 million litres of wine, and more than 10 million bottles of champagne were produced.
The second/third century theologian Origen suggested this was the third day from the last-named day in John 1:44 and the Jamieson-Fausset-Brown Bible Commentary argues that it would take Jesus three days to travel from Bethabara in Perea to Cana in Galilee.
20 November 1889; their children included Gordon, Lindsay, Keith, Kenneth, Malcolm, Neil, Marjorie (Mrs Ron Cameron) and Jean.
In 2013 “The Drinks Business” Magazine ranked him among the Top 5 Wine Consultants in the world, and in 2015 “Decanter” Magazine ranked him again in the top 5 Wine Consultants in his professional category.
Doble pasta Spanish winemaking term describing a wine that is macerated with double the normal ratio of grape skins to juice.
In the July 2009 Decanter publication of "The Power List" ranking of the wine industry's individuals of influence, Magrez placed at number 29.
The novel The Secret of Santa Vittoria and the film based on it, taking place in a wine-producing Italian town during WWII, include a grape treading scene which has a major role in the battle of wits between the townspeople and their German occupiers.
She launched the Bollinger RD vintage in 1961 and the vintage Vieilles Vignes Françaises in 1969, putting the brand on the international stage.
To help maintain the quality of vintage Champagnes, a maximum of only half the year's total harvest may be used in the production of a specific vintage.
Brix and actual dissolved solids content When a sugar solution is measured by refractometer or density meter, the °Bx or °P value obtained by entry into the appropriate table only represents the amount of dry solids dissolved in the sample if the dry solids are exclusively sucrose.
Biography After the revocation of the edict of Nantes, Pierre Joubert (Jaubert) went into exile at the age of 24, leaving La Motte-d'Aigues to reach Rotterdam in the Netherlands.
A press release indicated that the Wolfville store was unable to attract enough local customers to become profitable.
Starting in 1953, he directed the Vineyard Association, the controlling shareholder in Carmel Winery, and held this position for about thirty years.
In the 1990s, Oregon began gaining prominence as a producer of quality wine, with the state's best Pinot noirs from vineyards such as Beaux Frères, Argyle and Archery Summit displaying influence from Ponzi's winemaking style.
In time, winemakers discovered that beyond just storage convenience, wine kept in oak barrels took on properties that improved it by making it softer and, in some cases, better-tasting.
In 1985, Orfila was sued by a former subordinate, Carr Donald, over allegedly having been dismissed without cause.
In 1979 Saltram was sold to Canadian multinational spirit producer Seagram which informed Peter that he could no longer make wine on the side, so he quit his job at Saltram and worked fully for Masterson.
The increased production of amino acids leads to the develop of several flavors associated with premium Champagne including aromas of biscuits or bread dough, nuttiness and acacia.
This process can also give an added freshness and creaminess to the wine, and improve color and clarity.
Galets roulés also serve to protect the vine and minimize soil erosion during the periods of strong winds that are known in the area as mistral.
Steve Matthiasson is an American farmer, viticulturist, and winemaker known for his contributions to the low-to-moderate alcohol California wine movement.
He then conducted a commercial apprenticeship at the National Bank of Liechtenstein from 1954 to 1957.
Werner Hubert Gstöhl (3 November 1936 – 22 October 2024) was a banker, winemaker and politician from Liechtenstein who served in the Landtag of Liechtenstein from 1974 to 1978, and again from 1978 to 1982.
Lebanese Christians, and some Shia Muslims believe Qana to have been the actual location of this event.
Career Before venturing into wine, Ukkonika was an employee of Ministry of finance, where she worked for 37 years.
Champagne producers sometimes employ chaptalization in their winemaking when the wine is still in the form of must.
His maternal grandfather was Gonzalo Maria de Ulloa y Ramírez de Haro, Marqués de Castro-Serna, Count de Adanero.
He is also former coordinator of hobby and artistic activities of SZM local organization in Pezinok, high school teacher and municipal councillor.
Bottles then spend 6 months on a riddling rack before being disgorged to remove any sediment that has accrued.
Since then the vineyards at Stonyfell, which covered 70 acres (28 ha), have mostly been taken over for housing.
Lowe's 2009 Zinfandel was awarded the 'Red Wine of the Show' and the 'Wine of the Show' at the 2011 Australia / New Zealand Organic Wine Show.
Arpad was then a well-known sparkling wine producer in San Francisco and President of the California State Board of Viticultural Commissioners, and his statement was widely accepted.
In 1987, he presented a report to the legislature, Toward a New Ontario, which recommended an overhaul of the existing social assistance system.
Other good sources are fresh apple cider and unpasteurized beer that has not been filter sterilized.
Its name commemorates the event of the Wedding at Cana from the Gospel of John, thought by some Christians to have taken place on the site, during which Jesus performed his first miracle, by turning water into wine at the request or behest of Mary.
Instead of fire, a cooper may use steam to heat up the staves but this tends to impart less "toastiness" and complexity to the resulting wine.
Rosetti later recalled seeing Turnavitu himself struggling with guilt at having deserted his teaching position and his students.
Kevin John Cullen, AM (22 November 1922 – 9 February 1994) was an Australian medical doctor, researcher, and winemaker, active in Western Australia's South West.
In the economic advisors chairmanship, Dyson worked on economic issues impacting the city following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center.
However, in Portugal at that time few farms had electricity and there were no temperature-controlled fermentation vats.
The property, "Fairford" in the Adelaide suburb of Sturt on which he built a modest house and wine cellar.
He played a leading role in the improvement of white Bordeaux wines, which as late as the 1960s were sweet and of low quality, to become "serious, potentially profound dry whites".
John was the oldest of four siblings, and his mother and father Adolph had three other sons as well: Dolph, George, and Vernon.
During the 2004 Athens Olympics, Yao carried the Chinese flag during the opening ceremony, which he said was a "long dream come true".
According to the statistics of the Odesa city authorities, in Odesa alone in 1807 there were 8 vineyards with an area of more than 10 acres, from 1812 to 1818 there were 54, and in 1827 there were more than 162 of them.
Some maisons de Champagne (Champagne brands) claim to have secret recipes for this, adding ingredients such as old Champagne wine and candi sugar.
He traveled to Europe in 1891 to learn of French wine-making practices and the possibilities of a British export market.
In 1830, Jean-Louis Vignes sailed from Oahu on the trading bark "Louisa", under the command of Captain George Wood.
Business interests In 1858, Gallice's father had become a partner in Perrier-Jouët with his brother-in-law Charles Perrier.
The current church was built circa 1881, and expanded from 1897-1905, following efforts by the Franciscans to acquire the site between 1641 and 1879, when acquisition was completed.
With the outbreak of World War II, as an Italian citizen in England, he was interned as an enemy alien and later deported to Australia, where he was placed in a prison camp in New South Wales.
Base wine is a type of still wine produced in the first stage of fermentation during the production of sparkling wines and brandies.
As part of his academic responsibilities, Dubourdieu was the director of l'Institut des Sciences de la Vigne et du Vin de l'Université de Bordeaux (English: Institute of Vine and Wine Sciences of the University of Bordeaux).
Rabbi Yehezkel Landau, in Noda B'Yehuda, first edition, Yore Deah 26, for example, permits such beverages.
Wines Vignobles André Lurton, the André Lurton group of Bordeaux wine estates, covers a total of 630 hectares (1,600 acres), of which 264 hectares (650 acres) in Pessac-Légonan, and their combined annual production is 4 million bottles.
"Elizabeth David Is Dead at 78; Noted British Cookbook Writer," by Marian Burros, The New York Times, 28 May 1992.
One of the rarest wines made at Abbaye de la Boutière is called vin jaune (Yellow Wine), which is made from the Savagnin grape (also known locally as Naturé).
As the bubbles rise through the must, grape solids, including phenolic compounds prone to oxidation and browning, will tend to cling to the bubbles, creating a froth that can be removed from the wine.
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
In addition, 62 people are employed in the agriculture sector, which is approximately 7% of the labor force.
He managed or co-managed several properties in Bordeaux, including Château Reynon, Château Doisy Daëne, Château Cantegril, Château Haura, and Clos Floridène.
The practice of leaving a wine to age on its lees (or sur lie aging) has a long history in winemaking dating back to Roman winemaking.
John Staten of Field Stone Winery, Robert Mondavi, Louis Martini, Rob Davis of Jordan Vineyard & Winery, Joel Aiken, Michael Silacci of Opus One, Greg La Follette, of Marchelle Wines, and Rick Sayre of Rodney Strong Wine Estates, considered him their mentor.
This aids in polymerization of tannin into larger molecules, which could fall out of solution, not promoting protein precipitation in the mouth and thus improving mouth astringency.
That is why many studies are currently being conducted on the behavior of non-Saccharomyces yeasts and their co-inoculation in wine.
In 2012 expanded his Bordeaux holdings with Château Malleprat in Pessac-Léognan, Château Moulin d'Ulysse in Listrac-Médoc, and Clos Haut-Peyraguey, a classified growth in Sauternes.
Under French inheritance laws, vineyard holdings were often split until offspring owned no more than a single row of grapes, not enough to fill a barrel.
His success in winning international trophies has been noted by the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation.
Historically, intact grape clusters were trodden by feet but in most wineries today the grapes are sent through a crusher/destemmer, which removes the individual grape berries from the stems and breaks the skins, releasing some juice, prior to being pressed.
Differences between French and American oak American oak tends to be more intensely flavored than French oak with more sweet and vanilla overtones due to the American oak having two to four times as many lactones.
He was instrumental in designing the circuitry for Shakey the Robot, which has the distinction of being the first robot to reason about its own actions.
Their travels took them to South Africa, Germany, the United States, Austria, Bulgaria, Chile, Georgia, Greece, Italy, Mexico, and Romania.
On May 24, 2006, a 30-year re-enactment of the Judgment of Paris was held with simultaneous tastings in London and in Napa.
During this time the wine is deliberately kept in contact with its lees inside the bottle for a period ranging from a couple of months to several years.
The same while brewing beer at a brewery is known as trub – the same from secondary fermentation of wine and beer are the lees or equally, as to beer only, dregs.
Benefits Exposure to oxygen during production may improve wine, but the exposure must be limited: too much oxygen can lead to oxidation while too little can lead to reduction, either one leading to its associated wine faults.
Cazes began low key efforts to market his product to the People's Republic of China as early as 1990.
The winery has scaled its capacity since 2017 from 20,000 litres to 60,000 litres of wine production currently through 16 tanks.
Conventional alcoholic fermentation involves crushing the grapes to free the juice and pulp from the skin with yeast serving to convert sugar into ethanol.
Ukkonika started making wine on a small scale in 2000 inspired by her deceased son Godwin Ukkonika who initiated the wine making concept in the family.
A grand-nephew of André, Mark Tchelistcheff, has completed a feature-length film about André: André Tchelistcheff: The voice of wine.
His paternal grandfather, Prince Irakli Bagration of Mukhrani, was exiled from Georgia during the invasion of the Red Army, living in Germany, Italy, and finally settling in Spain.
She then spent time working at Cuvaison winery in Napa Valley and Tamar Ridge in Tasmania before moving back to the UK.
(9 February 2006) San Francisco Chronicle Barons of Barossa Australia's famous big-bodied Shiraz wines are produced by some outsize personalities.
This serves to smooth out some of the vintage variations caused by the marginal growing climate of Champagne, which is the most northerly winegrowing region in France.
It is a Name Day celebration for people with the name Trifon and derivative or similar sounding names, such as Trifon, Trifko, Trifo, Triful, Trifa, Trifka, Trufka, Trifula, Trichko, Tricho, Trichka, Trajan, Trajana, Fune, Funcho, Radka, Racho.
Khirbet Qana has been identified with the ancient village of Cana, site of Wedding at Cana of the New Testament, and referenced by Josephus.
He was interrogated and interned in the Camp of Mérignac (detention centre guarded by CSS Pichey Beaudésert).
The SGN designation can be used in the appellations Coteaux du Layon and Coteaux de l'Aubance and in both cases this requires the grape must used for the wine to have a minimum sugar content of 294 grams per liter rather than the basic level of 221 or 230 grams per liter respectively.
He remained involved in the brand's design and innovation until 1970, when he sold the company to Dunlop.
He suggested a conference in 1894 to discuss problems in the industry and supported moves to establish American root-stocks, which were resistant to phylloxera, into Victoria.
By the point of his death, Spier would be so valuable that the cost of its slaves alone would be sufficient to purchase a separate farm.
In 1985, he began allowing grapes to soak before fermentation, a technique that became popular in Burgundy and in other New World wine regions in the 1990s.
Young's Adelaide Educational Institution, and started work as secretary and accountant for Stonyfell Wines, which had been founded by Henry Septimus Clark (1836–1864) around 1860 and largely managed by his brother-in-law Joseph Crompton.
Pontbriand initiated the transition of the estate’s vineyards to organic farming in 2006 and completed their conversion to biodynamic practices in 2015.
The taxonomy of the genus Torulaspora is evolving rapidly, and the availability of molecular tools to discriminate Torulaspora species will help correcting errors in species assignments.
Later during their Indonesian tour, Prince Juan and Princess Kristine attended a gala lunch focused on establishing a cultural relationship between Indonesia and Georgia.
Phylloxera Haraszthy's management of the Buena Vista Vinicultural Society was both visionary and reckless.
Personal life In 1980, he married his wife Edita and is the father of Martin (born 1984) and Zuzana (born 1987).
Bollinger took over the presidency of the Bollinger house after the death of her husband in 1941, and directed it until 1971.
Even so, in 2008, Singer's Koshu wine "Shizen Cuvee Denis Dubourdieu" was the first Japanese wine to be accepted by the EU for import.
The Jura is an eastern French winemaking region located between Burgundy and Switzerland - and its location has meant that some unique grape varieties (e.g.
Jean-Paul Jauffret remained president of Vinexpo until 1996 before handing over to Claude Taittinger, CEO of Taittinger champagne.
In 1995 Johnston and his spouse purchased a farm 5 km West of Wellington in Prince Edward County, Ontario.
Rosetti recalls seeing the Turnavitu brothers around 1835, when Scarlat would purchase the food they shared using money he earned as a tutor.
He later pursued advanced studies at UC Davis, earning his MS in Horticulture with a focus on Pest Management of Trees and Vines in 1996.
These methods included reducing chemical inputs, using natural groundcover, and employing ambient yeast during fermentation.
On the vertical axis – the contrasts of light and shadow symbolise the co-existence of mortality and vanitas, the transitory pleasures of earthly life; the protocol of religious symbolism supersedes the social protocol.
After two years working in Italy and London, Fiaschi returned to Australia in 1879 and established a medical practice in Windsor, New South Wales.
Berkeley, California: Regional Oral History Office, Bancroft Library, University of California, 1992.
This technique, which was used widely in France and elsewhere in Europe in the 19th century, proved extremely successful and would later be adopted by many California wineries.
In 1940, Tempier and her husband, Lucien Peyraud, took charge of a Tempier family farming and wine estate in Le Castellet (Var).
In 1987, Salvador started Renteria Vineyard Management Co., with his son Oscar eventually assuming control of the operation upon Salvador's retirement.
As for the Isomac "La splendida", it wore a black sticker Atomic cappuccino which was applied on both white and red models.
Bioethanol may also be produced from the sugar content of spent coffee grounds, after it is defatted as a pre-treatment, it is typically hydrolysed by dilute acid.
In 1996, the Miele Group established the Dongguan factory as a joint venture with Melitta, which became fully owned by Miele in 2009.
The Büttner extraction method was boldly marketed claiming to be the world's best moka and coffee filter ("Der beste Mokka- und Kaffeefilter der Welt").
In the south of Malaysia especially the Coffee Belt region of western Johor where the Liberica variant is planted from Pontian to Senggerang, white coffee refers to coffee beans of the Liberica variant roasted without sugar nor margarine.
It also offers Lungo, medium roast capsules that produce a longer (higher proportion of water) espresso, and the Monoarabica line, single-origin Arabica beans from six countries: Brazil, Guatemala, Ethiopia, Colombia, Costa Rica, and India.
This new entity, focused on the professional coffee segment, is 61.4% controlled by De'Longhi SpA, 26.6% controlled by De'Longhi Industrial S.A, and 12% controlled by the remaining shareholders of La Marzocco.
t V = M V × t M {\displaystyle {\frac {t}{V}}={\frac {M}{V}}\times {\frac {t}{M}}} where t {\displaystyle t} is the total dissolved solids expressed as a percentage of the mass of the grounds, V {\displaystyle V} is the volume of the water used, and M {\displaystyle M} is the mass of the grounds.
Blade grinders create "coffee dust" that can clog up sieves in espresso machines and French presses, and are best suited for drip coffee makers.
In April 2020, Melitta announced that the company would be manufacturing nose and face masks as part of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Albuquerque Journal ran the first story of the verdict, followed by the Associated Press wire, which was picked up by newspapers around the world.
History In 1901, Luigi Bezzera devised and patented several improvements to the earliest recognized form of steam-powered espresso machine, invented by Angelo Moriondo in 1884.
Carter Chambers (Morgan Freeman) explains how civets defecate kopi luwak coffee beans, and that the gastric juices of the defecated beans give kopi luwak its unique aroma.
The redesigned Vulcano grinder, with Mazzer grinder technology, is introduced on this occasion, and the pressure profile technology introduced earlier in the year is built into the newly designed Strada EP (electronical paddle).
In the 1990s, more electric home roasting equipment became available, including drum roasters, and variations on the fluid-bed roaster.
The coffee lid market was valued at roughly $180 million in 2009, and an estimated 14 billion lids were sold in the United States that year.
The component was shipped free of charge, including instructions to allow customers to insert the new component themselves.
When freshly boiled water from a kettle is used, the water temperature is about 203 °F (95 °C) when it gets in contact with the coffee.
Rams soon became the most influential designer at Braun and was a key figure in the German design renaissance of the late 1950s and 1960s.
The commercial sector includes several products for brewing and dispensing coffee, tea, water, and other filters.
This saw the boycott of sugar between 1792-1793 and 1825-1829 as a way to force parliament to halt the trafficking of enslaved people.
In 1957, United States Deputy Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Energy, Charles Duncan Jr., put together a group to buy back the company from the failing owners.
The benefit of this method is extremely low investment cost on equipment required to prepare decent coffee.
Espresso yield has received significantly less attention in the literature than brewed coffee extraction.
The machine would drop a paper cup through a chute onto a platform and fill the cup with hot coffee prepared using instant coffee and hot water.
See also De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Lelit Rancilio Saeco List of Italian companies References External links Official website Bialetti NZ
Adding water to a drink after brewing changes strength but not yield (yield is determined by the amount of water initially present during brewing).
Discs containing milk use UHT milk, not powdered milk, but are no longer available in the United States.
The company employs over 450 people in offices in Europe and the United States, and has authorized dealers in over 100 countries worldwide.
In her book The Comforts of Coffee: The Role of the Coffee Ceremony in Ethiopians' Efforts to Cope with Social Upheaval during the Derg Regime (1974-1991), D.
tagline 2010 Mars Drinks acquires the Alterra Coffee Roasters brand from Colectivo Coffee Roasters and launched The Bright Tea Company 2018 Lavazza North America buys Flavia including The Bright Tea Company and Alterra Coffee Roasters from Mars.
Travel mug versions exist, which are made of tough plastic instead of the more common glass, and have a sealed lid with a closable drinking hole.
Dry granular products do not need to be refrigerated and can be used and stored in locations which do not have a refrigerator.
(Additionally, because the water is forced up through packed grounds, the pressures are greater.) The prepared coffee is then poured off from the top.
See also Moka pot – similar looking, but different type of pot Cafetière du Belloy – similar looking, but different type of pots References Further reading Bramah, Edward Roderick; Bramah, Joan (1995) [1989].
Tassimo T-Discs are currently offered under brands owned by JDE Peet's or Kraft Foods, including Gevalia, Maxwell House, Mastro Lorenzo, Nabob, Carte Noire, Jacobs, and Suchard.
In Jordan, black, cardamom-flavored qahwah sādah (often called “welcome coffee”) remains a traditional sign of respect and an important part of hospitality.
The men and women gather separately, and it has become very fashionable to employ very presentable women whose only job is to serve coffee all day to the women.
Wasser, das heiß der Warmwasserversorgung entnommen ist oder sonst schon längere Zeit gekocht hat, sollte man nur bei besonderer Eile verwenden.
While vacuum coffee makers generally were excessively complex for everyday use, they were prized for producing a clear brew, and were quite popular until the middle of the twentieth century.
As the film progresses, the makers add a fifth personality, Los Angeles-based Charles Babinski, who decides to compete.
She was hospitalized for eight days while undergoing skin grafting, followed by two years of medical treatment.
As pressure builds up more quickly in this method (since there is much less leakage of vapour) compared to the standard moka pot, it reaches the level required for water to rise through the ground coffee in a shorter time.
Automatic drip-coffee makers Electric drip-coffee makers One of the first electrical drip coffee makers was the German Wigomat, patented in 1954.
Two years before Liebeck, a similar lawsuit was settled during the trial for $15 million due to injuries from a sink in a rented apartment.
The product was named after a commercial hot-air roasting process which itself was named after the hot Sahara winds called sirocco.
In Australia, Woolworths and Gloria Jeans promote and make their own capsules exclusively for the system, with the latter also selling Gloria Jeans branded machines.
Many capsule machines specifically warn the user to not disassemble the machine or put their fingers inside the capsule receptacle, as the devices commonly use sharp razor-edge tubes or prongs for piercing the coffee capsule during use.
In various coffeehouses there are drawers which are integral within the bar structure, or a stainless steel box is located near the grinder for convenience.
The family-owned company employs more than 3,000 individuals overall and had a revenue of 583 million Swiss francs in 2018.
Major wins National and world champions 1996 Road Race Mario Cipollini 1999 Road Race Salvatore Commesso Road Race Armin Meier 2002 Road Race Salvatore Commesso 2003 World Road Race Igor Astarloa External links Team Results on procyclingstats.com, sortable by year Team history on cyclingranking.com
History First introduced in France in 2004, Tassimo is now also available in Andorra, Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia and the United Kingdom.
The peculiar method employed by the barista using the Gaggia machine subsequently became known as the ‘Fellini Move’ or ‘Fellini Manoeuvre’, used to induce pre-infusion or to introduce more volume into a shot than a single ‘pull’ from the machine would otherwise allow.
Filter drip brewing (invented 1908, Melitta Bentz) uses a bed of coffee grounds placed in a holder with a filter to prevent passage of the grounds into the filtrate and hot water is passed through the grounds by gravity.
Melitta () is a German company selling coffee, paper coffee filters, and coffee makers, part of the Melitta Group, which has branches in other countries.
The new machine was cheap, with a "pop" design, and it came as much of Italy gained electricity for the first time.
However, the most popular decoration technique nowadays is printing on mugs, which is usually performed as follows: Ceramic powder is mixed with dyes of chosen color and a plasticizer.
More recently, the entire Saeco team raced a stage of the 2003 Tour de France wearing a Legalize my Cannondale chaingang cycling kit to protest the UCI's lower bound on bike weight which means that their six13 prototype team bikes were underweight and required the installation of additional weight.
See also Erlenmeyer flask Chemex filter system (FP-1, FP-2, FP-2N, FS-100, FSU-100, FC-100) Bodum Pour Over (a similar looking metal filter holder) Hario Drip Pot Woodneck (a similar looking cloth filter holder) References External links Chemex Coffeemakers & Filters – Official Website
The most visually distinctive feature of the Chemex is the heatproof wooden collar around the neck, which allows it to be easily handled and poured when full of hot coffee.
A coffee capsule differs from a coffee pod in that the coffee is packed in a plastic or aluminum package instead of a paper filter, and it is usually designed for use with a single brand or system and is therefore not interchangeable with other systems.
In 2006, Jura inaugurated the visitor's centre "JURAworld of Coffee" at the Niederbuchsiten headquarters.
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz purchased the company after trying a cup brewed by a Clover machine and declaring it to be "the best cup of brewed coffee I have ever tasted".
Operation The machine has conditions of use that are similar to the traditional ones, in order to facilitate the operations of the astronauts without requiring specific training.
Other designers who worked in Braun's design department include Gerd Alfred Muller, Reinhold Weiss, Richard Fischer, Robert Oberheim, Florian Seiffert, Hartwig Kahlcke, Herbert Hirche, Fritz Eichler (designer), Roland Ullmann, and Ludwig Littmann.
Application of an equal amount of horse manure at the same time as the coffee grounds has been shown to nearly eliminate negative effects of fresh used coffee grounds.
This range includes Coffee Blossom Honey and Coffee Blossom Honey Syrup, both harvested from the same coffee plants used in Nespresso's Master Origins Colombia capsule.
Coffee beans contain a number of compounds that are more soluble at higher temperatures, such as caffeine, oils and fatty acids.
1950s–1960s Three years later in 1950, the first version of the Kenwood Chef Kitchen machine was launched at the Ideal Home Exhibition.
Other reviews mention that the Moccamaster's plastic parts are not durable, while other reviews refer to the machine as "the holy grail of coffee makers." References External links Official website Technivorm Cup-One Coffee Maker Review
Permanent metal filters are also used to prepare filtered coffee, including Vietnamese iced coffee and Indian filter coffee.
"The pot of gold - Design & Invention: It is a problem that has confounded scientists for generations".
The company did not prolong the sponsorship for 2005, and the team was merged with the Lampre team, forming Lampre–Caffita, sponsored by Caffita.
Customers who participated in the coffee maker recall were shipped a replacement component which will help prevent the contents of a defective T-Disc from spraying if the T-Disc bursts.
Initially the coffee machines produced by Gaggia were exclusively for professional use, but in 1977 production expanded to coffee machines for domestic use.
In 1967, the Boston, Massachusetts-based conglomerate Gillette Group acquired a majority share of the company.
Method The SoftBrew brews coffee by infusion (through steeping) in a perforated cylindrical stainless steel filter cup, which can be washed and reused.
Farsi ābrēz), from Middle Persian *āb-rēǰ, ultimately from Old Persian *āp- 'water' + *raiča- 'pour' (New Persian ریختن [rêxtan]).
A lot of the powdered coffee grounds are transferred from the cezve to the cup; in the cup, some settle on the bottom but much remains in suspension and is consumed with the coffee.
The top 15 competitors advance to a second (semi-finals) round, plus the addition of a wildcard placing.
The machine utilizes the same coffee pods, and can produce three different variants of coffee with foam milk: Cappuccino, Café Latte and Latte macchiato.
Cups made of bamboo fiber, polypropylene, and other organic materials such as starch and paper pulp were used.
The cabaret services originated in France, where the tea drinking was not ritualized, and thus small-scale arrangements for one or two were appropriate.
Brooklyn-based food startup Afineur has also developed a patented fermentation technology that reproduces some of the taste aspects of Kopi Luwak while improving coffee bean taste and nutritional profile.
Retrieved 21 September 2023.{{cite news}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) External links Official website
History The napoletana was invented in 1819 by Jean-Louis Morize, a tinsmith and lampmaker from Paris, France.
(Some Silvias made in early 2008 are still V2.) The machine was upgraded with a thicker 10mm diameter commercial-grade steam wand with a single-hole tip, attached to the machine by an articulating ball joint that allowed the steam wand to tilt in all directions as well as swivel.
In August 2008, it was announced the new generation of Tassimo machines would be manufactured by Bosch.
Indian filter coffee, particularly common in southern India, is prepared with rough-ground dark roasted coffee beans (e.g., Arabica, PeaBerry), and chicory.
By late 2023, De'Longhi S.p.A had purchased the majority of its parent company's shares in La Marzocco.
The basic kopi that results is a cup of thick coffee that has been squeezed through a cloth sock several inches long and is packed with tablespoons of sugar and sweet condensed milk.
The company transformed into a cigarette wholesaler and after World War II it became an operator of cigarette vending machines.
The interfaces of the water container as well as of the drink pouch are the same used with the potable water dispenser installed on the space station, in order to facilitate the use of the system by the astronaut.
This is used to preserve the aroma of the coffee while it drips into the tank, which can take up to 10 minutes or more.
His cockiness provides a stark contrast to the humble obsessiveness of the other four personalities.
V6 (2020-present) A minor update: the steam wand was slightly streamlined, eliminating the small lip in V3 and later models, making the wand easier to wipe down.
Although the company paused new investments and development in March 2022, it maintained its existing operations, including a production plant in Tatarstan.
Amateur filmmakers and pyrotechnicians have taken advantage of this property to produce several types of fireball effects.
For immersion brewing methods, such as French press and vacuum brewing, extraction takes place slowly.
Also, in the early 1980s, Braun sold its photographic and slide projector division to Robert Bosch GmbH.
Cometeer Coffee is an American coffee technology and manufacturing company based in Gloucester, Massachusetts.
The company has argued that there is no other material that is as insulated, and has an official statement about their foam cups on their website.
Gloess, Alexia N.; Schönbächler, Barbara; Klopprogge, Babette; D'Ambrosio, Lucio; Chatelain, Karin; Bongartz, Annette; Strittmatter, André; Rast, Markus; Yeretzian, Chahan (April 2013) [2012-06-05, 2013-01-08, 2013-01-10, 2013-01-30].
The company also manufactured Europiccolas that were branded and sold as the first Olympia Cremina home espresso machines.
A non-dairy creamer, commonly also called tea whitener or coffee whitener or else just creamer, is a liquid or granular product intended to substitute for milk or cream as an additive to coffee, tea, hot chocolate, or other beverages.
In the most common devices, coffee grounds are placed into a paper or metal filter inside a funnel, which is set over a glass or ceramic coffee pot, a cooking pot in the kettle family.
This first version lacked a sight glass for monitoring the water level inside the boiler, which was added to the 1962 model.
This means that an extraction yield of 20% can be obtained by brewing 18 grams of coffee, resulting a 36-gram final beverage with a t {\displaystyle t} of 10%.
No matter what roasting method is used, the weather can affect the results, especially if roasting outdoors.
Subsidiaries Capresso - since 2008 References External links Jura Elektroapparate AG JURAworld of Coffee, visitor's centre
According to the company, lab tests found that the original model did not leach BPA into brewed coffee.
(Braunschweig, Germany) and Columbus (Germany)) as part of larger coffee machines produced by the porcelain manufacturer Bauscher (Weiden, Germany) for heavy-duty semi-continuous batch use in restaurants and canteens.
For a long time Yemenis had a world monopoly on the export of coffee beans (according to Carl Linnaeus, by deliberately destroying their ability to germinate).
Some newer models fresh-brew the coffee using hot water and ground coffee beans, and some also grind the coffee to order using coffee grinders installed in the machines, as well as providing various condiments.
A Gaggia four-group lever machine is featured in Federico Fellini’s 1978 film Orchestra Rehearsal, during the scene in which the contrabass clarinettist is interviewed in the auditorium’s bar.
Rancilio made an attempt at a super-automatic machine, the Classe 12, and used cafes in Borders bookstores as a test market.
Stuttgart, Germany (originally: Munich, Germany): Parkland Verlag (originally: Blanckenstein Verlag).
Reports indicated that household appliances from De'Longhi, initially produced for the Ukrainian market, were redirected to Russia and sold through marketplaces and electronics store chains.
Only 24.6% of Nespresso capsules are recycled globally, but the company states that it has the capacity to recycle 100% of its capsules through its recycling program.
The Kenwood Chef's original designer, Kenneth Grange, was knighted in 2013 for his services to design.
Filter holders Filter holders are made out of plastic (including Makrolon/Exolon, Tritan, Ecozen), metal (stainless steel, copper, aluminium, emaille), ceramics, porcelain or glass, or, rarely, wood.
The S-series machine would become popular in the 1990s, and become well known in the North American marketplace.
Variants Some of the finely crafted coffee pots manufactured in the late 19th-century work on the same principle, including the Russian reversible pot aka Russian egg, and the reversible Potsdam cafetière aka Potsdam boiler.
Home roasters can purchase small quantities of high quality beans from numerous importers and distributors.
The reader will then interpret the patterns formed by the thick residue on the inside of the cup looking for symbols and letters.
The New York Times noted how the details of Liebeck's story lost length and context as it was reported worldwide, and that McDonald's, rather than Liebeck, was portrayed as the victim.
Used coffee grounds have other homemade uses in wood staining, air fresheners, and body soap scrubs.
Metal zarfs were sometimes filigreed, decorated with chasing, niello, engraving, or set with precious stones.
In 1944, Willy Brand developed an automatic drip-brewer utilizing circular paper filters in Switzerland.
The VertuoLine capsules cannot be used in the original line of Nespresso machines (now branded "OriginalLine" in North America).
Usually stainless steel will be used for the inner wall while outer wall can be stainless steel, plastic, or even embedded with other materials.
The first US patent for a coffee percolator was issued to James Nason of Franklin, Massachusetts, in 1865, U.S.
On 5 October 2020, Python 3.9 released with an updated HTTP library including 418 IM_A_TEAPOT status code.
Breville Group Limited, or simply Breville, is an Australian multinational manufacturer and marketer of home appliances, headquartered in Alexandria, New South Wales, Australia.
Capresso markets high-end coffeemakers, espresso machines, grinders, electric water kettles, and frothers.
Non-food uses As with many other powders, large amounts of powdered non-dairy creamer powder are susceptible to dust explosion when suspended in air.
Paper cup Plastic cup Glass cup Foam cup For alcoholic beverages Some styles of cups are used primarily for alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine, cocktail, and liquor.
The company reported significant growth in 2020 (82% increase in revenue over 2019) and 2021 (a further 65% increase over 2020), selling 48,000 espresso machines in 2020 and nearly tripling its employees in a single month, from 80 in March to 230 in April 2020, to keep up with demand.
More technically, coffee brewing consists of dissolving (solvation) soluble flavors from the coffee grounds in water.
The addition of sugar during the torrefacto roasting process increases the production of compounds with antioxidant properties.
Batch brewing keeps coffee available during peak hours and supports faster service from a single pot.
The Neapolitan flip coffee pot (Italian: napoletana or caffettiera napoletana, pronounced [kaffetˈtjɛːra napoleˈtaːna]; Neapolitan: cuccumella, pronounced [kukkuˈmɛllə]) or cafetière Morize is a drip brew coffeemaker for the stove top very popular in Italy and France until the 20th century.
The new machines contained much smaller boilers, which generated steam to push water into a receptacle.
Cultivation Much of the popularization of coffee is due to its cultivation in the Arab world, beginning in what is now Yemen, by Sufi monks in the 15th century.
Environmental impact Environmental activists have said that single-use coffee pods are harmful, as they are often composed of a mix of plastic, aluminium, and organic material (the used coffee) which makes them difficult to recycle.
The company Web site said in 2018 that it had been roasting coffee in Cherry Hill for more than 50 years.
Polystyrene foam cups have the reputation of not being recyclable, non-biodegradable, a major part of marine litter, and has various health risks.
Once released, it then took between three and six minutes for the coffee to drip through the meanwhile settled coffee bed into the coffee pot, a method sometimes also called cake filtration.
Ornate decorations, such as gold or silver plating, and decorative painting are also common where the jebena is used as status or social symbol in Ethiopian society.
Organization The WBC is operated by World Coffee Events (WCE), and is one of seven World Coffee Championships which was established by the Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) and the Speciality Coffee Association of Europe (SCAE) to run a portfolio of international coffee events.
It is one of the most concentrated forms of coffee regularly consumed, with a distinctive flavor provided by crema, a layer of flavorful emulsified oils in the form of a colloidal foam floating on the surface, which is produced by the high pressure.
She patented her invention and formed a company, Melitta, to sell the coffee filters (in a format and size later named "1"), hiring her husband and two sons to assist her as the first employees.
The design generically uses a lever, pumped by the operator, to pressurize hot water and send it through the coffee grounds.
The annual location of the event is determined by the World Coffee Events organizing committee, and is typically held in conjunction with the World Barista Championship, the World Coffee Roasting Championship, and the World Latte Art Championship.
These are small, pottery or porcelain cups, slightly larger than a demitasse, used to serve coffee from a jebena.
On 16 April 2012, De'Longhi bought perpetual rights to manufacture Braun branded products from Procter & Gamble in the small appliance segment.
Nie verfalle man in den Fehler, zuletzt womöglich noch einen tüchtigen Schuß Wasser nachzugießen, damit das nötige Quantum erreicht wird.
The sublimation point of caffeine is 352 °F (178 °C), about one hundred degrees lower than the typical very dark roast.
A creamer is a small pitcher or jug designed for holding cream or milk to be served with tea or coffee in the Western tradition.
If the brewed coffee is allowed to remain in the beaker with the used grounds, the coffee may become astringent and bitter, though this is an effect that some users of the French press consider desirable.
For hot beverages While in theory, most cups are well suited to hold drinkable liquids, hot drinks like tea are generally served in either insulated cups or porcelain teacups.
The cost per serving is 10% higher than Illy E.S.E pods, and twice higher than Illy ground or whole bean non-encapsulated coffee.
An extraction yield of 18% to 22% and a strength of 1.15% to 1.35% is considered typical in North America.
Hot water (93–96 °C (199–205 °F) is then poured through the coffee and filter, depositing brewed coffee into the flask.
The machine combined a method similar to a French press with a vacuum mechanism that separated the liquid from the grounds.
Coffee may be intentionally over-extracted to achieve increased strength while reducing the amount of ground coffee required.
(A common sized cezve will make one cup of coffee, and they can easily be ordered online in many western countries.) Cold water, several teaspoons of the ground coffee (at least 7 grams per person) and any sugar are put in the cezve and it is put on the fire.
The reduction in heat loss due to evaporation is typically much greater than the increase in heat loss associated with conduction through the saucer (and subsequent radiation or convective transfer to the surrounding air).
Although not the most common substitute for coffee it is occasionally served in lieu of coffee (Turkish coffee).
Reusable cups By 2019, coffee shop customers increasingly used reusable coffee cups as a sustainable option; shops were offering a discount as an incentive.
The grounds are brewed four times: the first round of coffee is called awel, the second kale'i, the third bereka ('to be blessed') and the fourth is called "dereja".
In 1958 the brothers began roasting small amounts of premium Arabica coffee at their food importing premises in the Sydney's suburb of Haymarket, initially supplying Sydney's first Italian cafés.
History Founding Vincent Marotta and Samuel Glazer founded a company in Cleveland, Ohio focused on coffee delivery called North American Systems (NAS) in the early 1970s.
A chorreador is a coffee making device used in Costa Rica in which hot water leaches through coffee grounds held in a cloth filter mounted on a wooden stand, then drips into a container.
The use of spent coffee grounds in this application has the advantage of the used coffee grounds needing no pre-treatment to be usable as a mushroom substrate.
Arabic coffee, known in Arabic as qahwa (Arabic: قهوة), is a loosely defined family of brewed coffee of Coffea arabica beans.
In 2001, La Marzocco began an eight-year sponsorship of the World Barista Championship, serving as the official espresso machine supplier from 2001 to 2008.
The degree to which extraction occurs depends on a number of factors, such as water temperature, brewing time, grind fineness, and quantity of grounds.
By adding the additional sugar to the beans it increases the effects of the Maillard reaction during the roasting process, thus giving the beans more of that distinct flavor.
It is specified in RFC 2324, published on 1 April 1998 as an April Fools' Day RFC, as part of an April Fools prank.
Historically a major producer of portable heaters and air conditioners, the company has expanded to include nearly every category of small domestic appliances in the food preparation and cooking, as well as household cleaning and ironing, segments.
This technique produces a thin homogeneous coating; however, if smoothness is not required, the ceramic mixture is painted directly with a brush.
One benefit of paper filters is that the used grounds and the filter may be disposed together, without a need to clean the filter.
The mouth of the bolsita is held open by a circular wire or wooden rim that is attached to a handle.
The first of these stages, the coffee is strong and potent, with each preceding serving having slightly more dilute coffee.
Individuals using powdered non-dairy creamer in the ordinary amounts used in a cup of coffee do not face a risk of dust explosion.
They looked similar to French drip coffee pots, but used cotton filters and were available in 18 sizes for up to 50cups of coffee.
Apart from a more shallow saucer the essential elements of these two forms in many contemporary examples have changed little since the mid-18th century.
While varying in price, colour, availability of filter/display they are functionally equivalent in that each maker will produce the same beverage from the same t-disc.
Ingredients To replicate the mouthfeel of milk fats, nondairy creamers often contain hydrogenated vegetable oils, although nonfat nondairy creamers/whiteners also exist.
The cabaret services characteristically utilized unusual designs and extensive decorations, this "jewel-like" appearance hints at marketing oriented towards ladies.
This allows the Tassimo pod maker to brew a variety of hot drinks: filtered style coffee, cappuccino, short espresso, tea, and hot chocolate.
The Chemex Coffeemaker is a manual pour-over style glass coffeemaker, invented by Peter Schlumbohm in 1941, manufactured by the Chemex Corporation in Chicopee, Massachusetts.
A commercial breakthrough came with a low-budget espresso machine that sold very well in the United States in 1984.
In the 1950s just as instant coffee was becoming a popular coffee drink, specialty coffeehouses began opening to cater to the connoisseur, offering a more traditionally brewed beverage.
During this period, Liebeck lost 20 pounds (9.1 kg), nearly 20% of her body weight, reducing her to 83 pounds (38 kg).
These products are designed to complement Nespresso coffee and can also be used in various foods and beverages.
The attractions are four-fold: enjoying fresh, flavorful coffee; experimenting with various beans and roasting methods; perfecting the roasting process, and saving money.
the closest to steaming with a commercial steam wand" available in a consumer espresso machine, and both "incredibly quick and incredibly powerful" in producing microfoam and bringing the milk up to temperature.
The Silvia is a one group machine with a vibratory pump from ULKA and a single brass boiler that's controlled by 3 thermostats for both steam and hot water.
Adulthood and religious activism After leaving the seminary, Morales became a baker, married, and had three children.
In cooking, a leavening agent () or raising agent, also called a leaven () or leavener, is any one of a number of substances used in doughs and batters that cause a foaming action (gas bubbles) that lightens and softens the mixture.
Health and environmental impacts Pizza ovens have not received much coverage as a source of urban pollution.
These methods of barbecue involve cooking using smoke at low temperatures with long cooking times, for several hours.
A griddle can have both residential and commercial applications and can be heated directly or indirectly.
The big version is cooked in a sandpit, and the small version is cooked in a large pot on a stove or a grill.
The varieties, originally from the Andes, have a Protected Designation of Origin (PDO) status in the archipelago.
It is an unsweetened pastry used for raised pies with meat fillings and savory custard filled quiches like Quiche Lorraine.
Today, Jiajia Wang, the Executive Director of SYB and President of Ruifeng Welfare Center, collaborate with other staff, interns and volunteers of different nationalities to build a fully-sponsored vocational training program in French bakery for marginalized Chinese youth.
Filled shaobing are usually eaten with soy milk and tea, while unfilled ones are usually eaten with steamed eggs or a breakfast meat dish.
House committee assignments Petitions committee Committee for Economic Affairs Committee for Social Affairs and Employment Committee for Climate Policy and Green Growth Personal life As of 2024, Kisteman had a wife and lived in Zwolle.
According to a representative of the British Federation of Bakers, "UK bread is around the cheapest in the world." As of 2011, 80% of bread made in the United Kingdom used the process, which has also spread to other countries such as Australia, South Africa, South America, Turkey and France.
The union became part of the Irish National Federal Union of Bakers in 1900, but it left again in 1905, with a slightly increased membership, which peaked at 693 in 1909.
In November 2015, Pinnacle Foods announced it would be acquiring Boulder Brands for around $710 million, as part of the company’s strategy to expand its health and wellness services.
When cooling a levain or sourdough pre-ferment, if the dough temperature drops below 10 °C (50 °F) it affects the culture and leads to the loss of a particular aroma in the baked bread.
The budding yeasts, or "true yeasts", are classified in the order Saccharomycetales, within the phylum Ascomycota.
After the OS was broken up, Yacef moved to France and lived there until 1952, when he returned to Algeria to work again as a baker.
See also Breakfast French toast List of syrups Waffles Betty Crocker References External links Official website
Following Bruce's retirement, the company started to trade under the name "Ernest Adams Ltd." and soon became the largest bakery in the South Island.
It is greaseproof paper that can be used for several different applications, its surface prevents the food from sticking, and also is highly heat-resistant with some brands capable of temperatures up to 420 °F (216 °C).
Under SMC, the dairy plant at 526 Calle Aviles in the San Miguel district of Manila stood on the same street as the site of the original San Miguel brewery (6 Calle Aviles).
Chocolate makers use harvested cocoa beans and other ingredients to produce couverture chocolate (covering).
The third hall on the site, which opened in 1722, was destroyed by incendiary bombing during the London Blitz of 1940.
Bread crumbs may be used to top the dish, which may be browned during the cooking process creating a crust.
In cooking, timbale (French: [tɛ̃bal]) derived from the French word for "kettledrum", also known as timballo, can refer to either a kind of pan used for baking, or the food that is cooked inside such a pan.
Substitution 1 cup (~240 mL) of Bisquick can be substituted by a mixture of 1 cup (~240 mL) of flour, 1+1⁄2 teaspoons of baking powder, 1⁄2 teaspoon of salt, and 2+1⁄2 tablespoons of oil or melted butter (or by cutting in 2+1⁄2 tbsp Crisco or lard).
"Miss Wessling has devoted considerable time--thirteen years--in the work of making bread, jellies, preserves, and canning fruit, and later analyzing them as a chemist," explained one 1910 newspaper report.
Shaped like a half moon, the gujiya or pedakiya is filled with a sweet mixture of grated and roasted dried fruits, khoa, grated coconut, and a hint of suji to lend it a grainy texture.
The Brown-Bakers were bakers of nutritious bread, while the White-Bakers were bakers of the less nutritious but more popular bread.
The profession was divided into the bench men, who were responsible for kneading, shaping and boiling the bagels, with the oven men finishing the job.
History In 1708, an ancestor of Kuo Yuan Ye moved from Zhangzhou to Taiwan within the Fujian Province during the Qing Dynasty and started the family bakery business.
See also Carvery Pub grub Pot roast References External links Media related to Sunday roast at Wikimedia Commons
Tang Shuang and Gao Gen: Tang Shuang eventually recovers and she and Gao Gen bakes cakes under the name of Mr and Mrs Cake Robin Hood.
In July 1907, Eriksson found employment at a baker's shop in Vretstorp, where the owner was pleased with his work.
Baking soda is alkaline; the acid used in baking powder avoids a metallic taste when the chemical change during baking creates sodium carbonate.
Production The modern commercial production of potassium carbonate is by reaction of potassium hydroxide with carbon dioxide: 2 KOH + CO2 → K2CO3 + H2O From the solution crystallizes the sesquihydrate K2CO3·1.5H2O ("potash hydrate").
Later life In his remaining years, he owned a bank and a mine in Styria, the site of which is still known as Zangtal ("Zang Valley").
In early 2012, Dassant introduced a line of baking mixes including pancakes, cookies, carrot cake and pumpkin bread."Dassant Introduces a New Face in Premium Baking Mixes" (Press release).
Pommes Salardaise – as for pommes Anna, but the layers of potato are alternated with sliced black truffles.
Career Bengtsson started his career in Halmstads BK at the age of 17 in 1947 against Djurgårdens IF, a 0–5 defeat.
In 2017, a non-governmental organization helped Sharma set up a bakery, in a mansion believed by some local people to be haunted, that now employs 150 women and supplies Gurugram restaurants with biscuits made from flaxseed, oatmeal and walnut.
The relationship began in 1948, and has existed continuously since then, making it one of the longest continually running radio show sponsorships known.
Awards In 1939, Angelo Motta was awarded Knight of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre, a prestigious Catholic chivalric order.
Flaky pastry, also known as quick pastry, blitz pastry or rough puff, is a light and thin unleavened pastry that is similar to, but distinct from, puff pastry.
As the name suggests, the pastry is made by heating water, melting the fat in it, bringing the mixture to a boil, and finally incorporating the flour.
Pickerts are a specialty of the district of Lippe, where they developed from a traditional meal for the poorer people.
The shape can be a full circle with an alternative name of Suryakala, representing the shape of the sun.
The effect is far from the classical orders; at the corners the slabs turn to pilasters rising at the top level to unorthodox capitals combining scrolls at the sides with plant forms in the centre.
Many commercial ovens are equipped with two heating elements: one for baking, using convection and thermal conduction to heat the food, and one for broiling or grilling, heating mainly by radiation.
Parbaking (also known as part-baked in the UK ) is a cooking technique in which a bread or dough product is partially baked and then rapidly frozen for storage or assembled into a final product.
Upon addition to water, GDL is partially hydrolysed to gluconic acid, with the balance between the lactone form and the acid form established as a chemical equilibrium.
The strands are also known as kadayif noodles, string kadayif, wire kadayif, tray kadayif, and tel kadayıf, although some of these names are also used for finished desserts.
Freshness is such an important quality that restaurants, although they are commercial (and not domestic) preparers of food, bake their own products.
Nancy Green, a former slave from Montgomery County, Kentucky, portrayed the character and cooked pancakes, sang songs, and promoted the product.
It is called one-stage because all the ingredients can be put in the bowl at the same time, and then the batter is stirred.
The mating pathway employs a G protein-coupled receptor, G protein, RGS protein, and three-tiered MAPK signaling cascade that is homologous to those found in humans.
Purchase by Post Holdings On June 1, 2021, Post Holdings announced it acquired the ready-to-eat ("RTE") cereal business of TreeHouse Foods.
He was also the member of the Czechoslovak Association of Esperanto and in 1921 took a role of Baron Révay in the first Slovak movie, Jánošík.
According to the story, seven or eight of them found shelter at Brites' bakery, which was empty because she had gone out to help to kill the soldiers.
In 1931 Schmidt received an order of the French Minister of Economy for his contribution in the economic area.
A whole tenderloin may be wrapped and baked, and then sliced for serving, or the tenderloin may be sliced into individual portions before wrapping and baking.
In 1902, the union officially affiliated to the Labour Party, which had been founded two years prior.
In Chicago, one also often finds the technique applied to other foods, like "steak Vesuvio", "pork chops Vesuvio", or even just "Vesuvio potatoes".
Huaiyang-style pastry is used to make delicacies such as Shanghainese 'crab shell' pastries (蟹殼黃) while Cantonese-style pastry is used to make pastries like sweetheart cakes.
Roller types consists of a thick cylinder with small handles at each end; rod type rolling pins are usually thin tapered batons.
People noticed that the new baker spoke several languages (at least, French and German), knew how to ride a horse and, in general, appeared to be more than a humble officer.
The casserole is often garnished with a few green peas for color, although some more modern variations may omit some of these.
The farinograph gives bakers a good snapshot of the flour's properties and how the flour will react in different stages of baking, which helps them pick a certain flour for any given purpose.
A cooking apple or culinary apple is an apple that is used primarily for cooking, as opposed to a dessert apple, which is eaten raw.
Some bakers recreated nostalgic favorites from the past; in India school cake experienced a resurgence in popularity.
Streit's and its major competitor, New Jersey–based Manischewitz, together hold about 40 percent of the US matzo market.
Today, baked beans can be made in a slow cooker or in a modern oven using a traditional beanpot, Dutch oven, or casserole dish.
Air pressure in the mixer headspace can be controlled to keep gas bubbles at the desired size and number.
Instead, they are simply warmed to between 3 and 5 °C (5 and 9 °F) above the coating's melting point.
Because the flour is added in the last step, there is a lower chance of the gluten developing and producing a tough cake.
To retain heat above the oven, builders may enclose it with walls filled with perlite, pumice or vermiculite.
The goal is to allow them to find qualified jobs in the bakery-pastry making sector and lead an independent life after graduation.
The effect is caused by the thermal decomposition, which produces carbon dioxide gas to produce a long snake-like ash as a combustion product of the other main component, sucrose.
Some people discard the skin of a baked potato, while others also eat the skin, which has a characteristic taste and texture and is rich in dietary fiber.
Alice Kelly, also known as the From Scratch Baker, is an Irish Kildare-based baker and social media personality.
It's got to be showcasing what the flour can do." Conversion to employee-owned structure and expansion into retail Sands, Taylor & Wood Company converted to an employee-owned business structure in 1996, and also changed its name to The King Arthur Flour Co., Inc., reflecting its principal brand.
Various cultures derived from barm, usually Saccharomyces cerevisiae, are ancestral to most forms of brewer's yeast and baker's yeast currently on the market.
Smucker in 1984 continued to be traded on the NYSE, with the Smucker family retaining a 30% interest in the business.
Manufacturing To preserve the yeast during freezing, yeast manufacturers produce special cold-resistant strains.
Method According to food journalist Mark Bittman, "Few meals are more beautiful than a well-executed clambake." A clambake begins with gathering seaweed (traditionally rockweed – Ascophyllum nodosum) at the shoreline; seaweed is an important adjunct to cooking the food.
Life Veronika, a brown cow, was born in 2012 or 2013 and lives in the Austrian town of Nötsch im Gailtal, near the Italian border.
In 2013 Boulder Brands acquired gluten-free Davies Bakery in the UK The company announced plans to discontinue the Bestlife spread and Smart Balance Butter Blend categories in 2013.
Since 2001, the Institute has worked with the Bread Project to train low-income students for bakery careers.
The brand, which began as a small family operation, is based in Park City, Utah and ultimately expanded to market protein-enhanced pancake and waffle mixes, individual oatmeal, brownie mixes, frozen prepacked waffles, frozen prepacked pancakes, granola protein bars, and fruit syrups.
History The concept behind the Farinograph was first developed by Hungarian agricultural chemist Jenő Hankóczy in the early 20th century.
A very light amount of salt in the nixtamal dough with which it is prepared in some cases, as well as its cooking almost until it is toasted, make the tlayuda last longer without decomposing, unlike what happens with common tortillas.
Origin The Sunday roast originated in Britain, particularly Yorkshire, as a meal to be eaten after the church service on Sunday.
Preparation and serving The typical ingredients are boiled potatoes and flour, but may also include eggs, salt, and other seasoning.
In the 1990s the two brothers from the same family incorporated their family's business, but met with limited financial success.
Cross-panned bread appears to have a finer and whiter crumb texture than the elliptical shape of the crumb bubble structure resulting from a different orientation, is easier to slice, and tends to be more resistant to tearing when spreading products such as butter on the surface.
Also known as the World Cup of Baking, the Coupe du Monde de la Boulangerie Archived 2019-09-22 at the Wayback Machine is held in conjunction with Europain Archived 2019-09-22 at the Wayback Machine, an international bakery, patisserie, and catering exhibition attracting more than 80,000 visitors.
Jordan Daphne Rondel (born April 8, 1989) is a New Zealand–born, Los Angeles–based entrepreneur, recipe writer.
As it and the Bakery and Confectionery Workers International Union of America shared many common goals, both organizations merged in 1978, creating the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers (BCT).
He is former owner of a bakery company in Zermatt named "Bäckerei-Konditorei Biner" and founded in 1932 by his father Alfons Biner, who was a competitive curler too, and is a four-time Swiss men's curling champion.
This process is similar to recrystallization and is promoted by storage at cool temperatures, such as in a domestic refrigerator or freezer.
Variations In the Food Network show Good Eats, Alton Brown discusses a variant using the cheaper pork tenderloin instead of beef.
A common vegetarian variation of the dish, known as "beet Wellington", replaces the beef with beetroot and has been featured on food competition shows such as MasterChef Australia.
Today, the awards for this final competition are indeed the finest Swiss chocolates supplied by the Biner bakery company.
Chef Jeff Pond of A4 Pizza stated he always used Bakers Pride ovens which, along with Blodgett and Marsal & Sons, are the most popular pizza ovens in the New York region.
Shared goals and shared industries led to the January 1, 1999, merger between the BCT and AFGM, creating the modern BCTGM.
The ICES is a nonprofit organization dedicated to preserving, advancing and encouraging exploration of the sugar arts.
Regulation and variation of subunits of RNA polymerase II in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (PDF) (Ph.D.).
In 1920 the union agreed to transfer its members in the milling industry to the rival Dock, Wharf and Riverside Workers' Union.
Barbara Okereke-Ndugbu (born c.1988) is a Nigerian cake designer and entrepreneur, founder and managing director of Oven Secret Bakery.
lindneri) Lactobacillus viridescens Pediococcus acidilactici See also List of sourdough breads == References ==
The dish has been associated with members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints because of its popularity among members of the church.
Though first promoted for only baking biscuits ("90 seconds from package to oven", the slogan read), Bisquick was soon used to prepare a wide variety of baked goods from pizza dough to pancakes to dumplings to snickerdoodle cookies.
It is a traditional snack in Zibo, Shandong province, China, created by Guo Yunlong based on a horseshoe-shaped thick pancake.
While the cause of Veronika's learning to use the tools is unknown, Osuna-Mascaró has said that the cow's owner "provid[ed] the special conditions that enabled Veronika to express herself".
Moscow: Gostorgizdat, USSR Ministry of Food Industry.] Mario Jack Leto; Willi Karl Heinrich Bode (2006).
Controversy In 2020, following protests over systemic racism, Conagra Brands announced that it would review the shape of their bottles, as critics viewed them as an example of the "mammy" stereotype.
Each team is made up of three members, and each person specializes in one of the major Coupe du Monde categories: Baguettes & Specialty Breads, Artistic Design, and Viennoiserie.
After baking, the pastry is brushed with egg yolk to give it a golden color, and later filled with a mixture of meat and spices and then baked.
They can be found in traditional Russian, Ukrainian, Romanian, Slovakian, Polish and Belarusian households.
Foods that are believed to acquire a distinctive character from being prepared in a Russian stove include baked milk, pastila candies, mushrooms cooked in sour cream, or even a simple potato.
For these ingredients, it may be easier to express quantities by volume, based on standard densities.
The resulting colors range from delicate brown in a slow oven through golden brown in a moderate oven to dark brown in a hot oven.
Scholarships ICES awards one or more annual scholarships to applicants deemed most likely to develop and promote the art form.
If the dough is stretched by hand, a long, thin rolling pin is used, with continual flouring between layers to prevent the sheets from sticking to one another.
Masa or masa de maíz (English: ; Spanish pronunciation: [ˈmasa]) is a dough made from ground nixtamalized corn.
Before the 19th century, bakestones were made of stone; usually oval and of schistose steatite (soapstone), slate or very fine micaceous flaggy sandstone about 1+1⁄2 inches (4 cm) thick.
They are easy to prepare and variations on the recipe are available on the Internet and in cookbooks and cooking magazines.
For tangzhong the flour is cooked at 65 °C (149 °F) in the liquid which causes its starch to gelatinize.
In November 2020 the union announced that it planned to consult its members on whether to remain affiliated to the Labour Party following the suspension of former party leader Jeremy Corbyn.
It is such a fundamental part of everyday food consumption that the children's nursery rhyme Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake, baker's man takes baking as its subject.
In Pennsylvania, ham loaf is sometimes served with a sauce consisting of vinegar, mustard, and brown sugar.
The company is now run and managed by her grandson, Howdy Holmes, a former Indianapolis 500 and CART driver.
A barm cake is a soft, round, flattish bread roll from North West England, traditionally leavened with barm.
The chicken is sliced and baked, then marinated in oil, chilli pepper, garlic, spring onions, shrimp paste and limes, and finally grilled.
They moved to Los Angeles, where she sold her Cuban-style cakes and other foods from home, while her husband worked as a janitor.
Shaobing is not very well known in southern China, unlike other northern dishes like mantou, baozi, and youtiao.
The traditional explanation is that the thinner part was used as a "handle" so kalach could be eaten even by workers who had no time to wash their hands.
Other Hungarian pasta dishes Savoury Cabbage squares Cabbage squares or cabbage and noodles is a savoury Hungarian pasta dish.
A related dish, Lappenpickert, is found in the regions west of Lippe, towards Münster and the Ruhr Area.
Pâte sablée is made with more sugar, which sweetens the mix and impedes the gluten strands, creating a pastry that breaks up easily in the mouth.
A neutral nappage (without the apricot flavour) may be made by mixing pure pectin with water and citric acid (or lemon juice) and heating to 45°C, which precipitates the gelling reaction, creating a base to which a diversity of flavours or colouring agents may be added.
The low pH also results in a whiter crumb in cakes due to flour pigments that respond to these pH changes.
Traditionally, a whole red snapper is used, gutted and de-scaled and marinated in lime juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg and garlic.
See also Scottish cuisine List of cabbage dishes List of onion dishes List of potato dishes == References ==
On 10 September 1909 the new day session of the National School for Bakers and Confectioners was opened by the Lord Mayor of London, Sir George Wyatt Truscott with 44 full-time students.
publications, cauliflower cheese is sometimes described as the English version of macaroni and cheese, based on the notion that the latter is American.
The plate surfaces of commercial griddles can be made of cast iron, polished steel, cold-rolled steel or can have a chrome finish.
General Mills has reduced the level of sugar in all cereals advertised to children to 11 grams per serving.
She has an online baking project called Baking Blind where she shows people how she cooks and encourages others to test their limits even if they have disabilities.
Top speakers, live demonstrations, merchandising ideas, and shelves of the hottest new products are just a taste of what the show offers.
In the Soviet era, the name "ryazhenka" came to be applied to a government-produced creme-colored drink without the skin.
House prospered selling commodities ranging from hides to syrup and from guns to blacksmithing tools.
The rules for topping a tlayuda are not strict, and restaurants and street vendors often offer a variety of toppings, including "'tasajo" (cuts of meat typical of the Central Valley of Oaxaca), chorizo, and cecina enchilada (thin strips of chili powder-encrusted pork).
The School attracts students from a variety of backgrounds, from middle-aged people looking to change career path, to hobbyists, to children, to international students who come for long-term residential courses.
See also List of French desserts References Further reading Pfeiffer, Jacquy; Shulman, Martha Rose (2013-12-03).
Formation Jewish immigrants brought the bagel to the United States at the turn of the 20th century, with hundreds of small bagel bakeries sprouting up in Manhattan's Lower East Side, in which workers worked under difficult conditions for minimal wages.
Turkish scholarship likewise treats kadayıf as an Arabic-derived sweet that later developed multiple forms in Seljuk, Ottoman, and modern Turkish cuisine.
Chicken Vesuvio, a specialty of Chicago, is an Italian-American dish made from chicken on the bone and wedges of potato sauteed with garlic, oregano, white wine, and olive oil, then baked until the chicken's skin becomes crisp.
After the resignation of Gordan Petrić at the end of February 2023, Duljaj was appointed head coach of Partizan.
Chinese flaky pastry (Chinese: 中式酥皮; also known as Chinese puff pastry) is a form of unleavened flaky pastry used in traditional Chinese pastries that are invariably called subing (soubeng in Cantonese).
Pure, unsweetened chocolate, often called "baking chocolate", contains primarily cocoa solids and cocoa butter in varying proportions.
In Italy, meatloaf is called polpettone and can be filled with eggs, ham and cheese, and other ingredients.
History Spinach and artichoke dip became prominent in the 1950s, when eating in front of the television became more common.
The brand was introduced at the Boston Food Fair on September 10, 1896, to substantial commercial success.
In 1990, two commercials were produced which show what pork chops and chicken look like after frying.
Laganon/laganum was at different periods an unleavened bread, a pancake, or later, perhaps a sort of pasta.
Another is made from microorganisms carefully isolated from petri dishes, grown into large, homogeneous populations in fermentors, and processed into combined baker's products with numerically defined ratios and known quantities of microorganisms well suited to particular bread styles.
FNBPB is a member of the International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers' Association.
Generally, the baker finds it easiest to use the system of measurement that is present on the available tools.
Oetker products are available, including frozen pizzas, baking powder, and gelatin, the latter in both unflavoured and dessert forms.
It is then deep fried until crisp, before being soaked in a sugar syrup known as Paga, the pastry absorbing the syrup.
Electric dough sheeters support bakers in dough sheeting and laminating with automated process steps, such as automated flour dusting, firmness detection and dough reeling.
Barbecue sauce and more seasoning is added before rolling it into a giant "sausage-shaped monster", sometimes using aluminum foil to help (note: it is not cooked inside the foil).
When The Guardian interviewed Muhammad, a year after his release, Muhammad reported ongoing after-effects from his incarceration: "The biggest damage is to my brain.
He was told that there was a goldmine in Gateau and thus he uses his relationship with Yu Le and Sarah to find the treasure.
He has a passion for cake-making and rightly possesses a gift known as "The Freezing Hands", which refers to his hand temperature being much lower than that of the average man.
Gallery See also Clams casino Cuisine of New Orleans List of seafood dishes References External links Media related to Oyster Rockefeller at Wikimedia Commons
The 1923 edition of Le Répertoire de la Cuisine, a professional reference cookbook, mentions a "Wellington" recipe for beef: "Barded fillet browned in butter and in the oven, coated in poultry stuffing with dry duxelles added, placed in rolled-out puff pastry.
The savarin mould is a large ring shaped mould, designed originally with an accompanying gâteau recipe in mind.
Despite this, some reports had said that the character was originally modeled on Butterfly McQueen, a black actress who appeared as a maid in Gone with the Wind (1939), and that the dark brown color of the syrup inside the bottle gave the impression that the character was black.
Betty Crocker was portrayed by several actresses, including Marjorie Husted on radio for twenty years, and Adelaide Hawley Cumming on television between 1949 and 1964.
The original version of the pancake mix was developed in 1888–1889, and was advertised as the first "ready-mix" cooking product.
Journalist and publisher In 1848, when censorship was lifted in Austria, he returned to Vienna and founded Die Presse, a daily newspaper that still exists today though after several interruptions.
History Pâte brisée is, according to the French-American Cultural Foundation, a classic of French pastry.
It is used as a lower-cost alternative to pure chocolate, as it has less-expensive hard vegetable fats such as coconut oil or palm kernel oil in place of the more expensive cocoa butter.
Rosa Porto retired from baking in the 1990s; her children and grandchildren continue to run the business, now with over a thousand employees.
In April 2017, it was reported that Conyers Park Acquisition Corporation had acquired Atkins from Roark.
It may be used to make dishes, such as samosas and curry puffs, that traditionally are made with other types of pastry dough.
The loaf is similar in process to the French "pain au levain", but made with whole wheat flour and starter instead of white flour.
Recipes and use as food While many recipes are commonly stewed, traditionally dried beans were soaked overnight, simmered until tender (parboiled), and then slow-baked in a ceramic or cast-iron beanpot.
In the early 20th century, canned baked beans gained more widespread use, particularly in the United Kingdom, where they are commonly served in a full breakfast.
In 2008, Lee earned a BSc degree in Hotel, Restaurant and Institution Management at the University of the Philippines Diliman in Philippines.
Another technique dispenses with weights by placing a second pie tin on top of the crust, then inverting the tins to bake.
Flaky pastry relies on large lumps of butter (approximately 1 in or 2.5 cm across) mixed into the dough, as opposed to the large rectangle of butter in puff pastry.
Varieties It is typically prepared in unsweetened, bittersweet, semisweet and sweet varieties, depending on the amount of added sugar.
According to stories of the dish's origin, seawater was chosen due to the scarcity of fresh drinking water on the islands.
Celeste Hungry-Man frozen TV dinners (acquired from Campbell Soup Company) Lender's (acquired from Kraft Foods in 1999) Mrs.
Once the stove became hot the burning wood was removed, and cast iron containers were put into the stove and filled with water.
Higher levels of fat such as margarine, butter, lard, or vegetable shortening will cause an item to spread out during the baking process.
Hot water crust is a type of pastry used for savoury pies, such as pork pies, game pies, Scotch pies and more rarely, steak and kidney pies.
For the meat to 'pull' properly, it must reach an internal temperature of 195 to 205 °F (91 to 96 °C); the smoker temperature can be around 275 °F (135 °C).
Parboiling can also be used for removing poisonous or foul-tasting substances from foods, and to soften vegetables before roasting them.
Some writers recommend that the dipping fork be used only to transport the food from the pot to one's plate, not to eat from.
Small discs of locally produced provolone cheese of 10 to 15 cm (4 to 6 inches) in diameter and 1 to 1.5 cm (0.5 to 0.5 inches) in height are often eaten at the start of an asado (barbecue), before the grilled meat.
Types Soy sauce (usually a mix of light and dark soy sauce), fermented bean paste, red fermented tofu and rock sugar is commonly used to both flavor and impart a reddish-brown hue to the items being cooked.
References External links About, at the official website (in Serbian) Roštiljijada/Roštiljada at the City of Leskovac website (in Serbian) Tourist Festivities at the City of Leskovac website Roštiljijada at the Leskovac tourist board website
The final liquid phase allows minor adjustment to the viscosity of the finished product by addition of fats and emulsifiers, depending on the intended use of the chocolate.
The maximum capacity of food is less than the advertised capacity because pressure cookers can only be filled up to 2/3 full, depending on ingredients and liquid (see Safety features section).
Cantonese cuisine Although visually similar to other types of steamed baozi, the dough of steamed cha siu bao is unique since it makes use of both yeast and baking powder as leavening.
Rival asked inventor Alex MacMaster, from Boonville, Missouri, to develop Naxon's bean cooker into a large scale production model that could cook an entire family meal, going further than just cooking a bean meal.
This method of cooling prevents the leaching of water-soluble nutrients; however, the air causes evaporation and lowers the mass of the vegetable—a monetary disadvantage for industry.
History Low-temperature cooking has been used for a long time; evidence of its use can be found in indigenous cultures.
Often associated with Cajun cuisine, this technique was invented and popularized by chef Paul Prudhomme.
Usage Purposes Indigenous peoples used stone boiling to produce nut oil, bone grease, and cook vegetable and meat stews.
Brazil Churrasqueira in Portuguese is any type of assembly, installation or electrical device, intended for preparing churrasco.
The suffix gui is often omitted in the names of meat-based gui such as galbi, originally named galbi gui.
Parboiling is usually used to partially cook an item which will then be cooked another way such as braising, grilling, or stir-frying.
These meatballs, also known as Delikli (drilled) meatballs and Tire Kebab in the public are served by putting fresh parsley on them.
The raw dough is baked normally, but halted at about 80% of the normal cooking time, when it is rapidly cooled and frozen.
Removal of water and addition of salt to fish creates a solute-rich environment where osmotic pressure draws water out of microorganisms, retarding their growth.
See also Akçaabat meatballs Islama köfte Ćevapi List of meatball dishes References Facaros, Dana; Pauls, Michael (2000).
Today, hinged gridirons are used extensively to deep fry or broil fast food in restaurants throughout the world.
The covering, which cannot contract any further, is then obliged to wrinkle and buckle, in order to preserve surface area while containing the lesser volume.
See also Inca cuisine Peruvian cuisine Pachamanca References External links Yachay: História de la Pachamanca
In 1968, the name was changed to The Ducane Company and moved the base of operations to Barnwell, South Carolina and in 1975, they started making Ducane gas grills.
These popular dishes use carne asada as a main ingredient: As an event In Mexico and other countries in Central America, the phrase carne asada can also be used to describe a social event, the equivalent of a social barbecue, where family and close friends gather.
The clay from Lake Biwa contains tiny fossils which incinerate and produce small pockets of air, which also hold heat.
This is due to the increase in surface area over a traditional chopping method and is preferred for recipes that do not benefit from the texture of chopped vegetables.
The grill is self-contained, meaning that all elements needed for cooking the food are included: Foil pan, grill top, stand (optional), charcoal, starter sheet, ignition fluid.
The use of cofiring creates an energy that is not as high as pure coal, but emits fewer pollutants and cuts down on the release of previously sequestered carbon.
It is a tsukeyaki preparation in which fish is marinated in yūan-ji, a seasoning liquid made from soy sauce, sake, and mirin with sliced citrus such as yuzu or kabosu, then drained and grilled.
A flattop grill is a cooking appliance that resembles a griddle but performs differently because the heating element is circular rather than straight (side to side).
The term carne asada is used in the northern part of Latin America and refers to the style of grilled meat in those countries.
Broadcast The series premiered on 18 November 2015 and continued to air through the summer non-ratings period on the Seven Network.
With colonialism, many cattle branding traditions and techniques were spread via the Spanish Empire to South America and to countries of the British Empire including the Americas, Australasia & South Africa where distinct sets of traditions and techniques developed respectively.
The pericarp is then removed, leaving the endosperm of the grain with or without the germ, depending on the process.
A well-known application is with Bresse chicken: Poularde de Bresse en vessie; a prepared chicken is stuffed with foie gras, truffles, and other flavorings, then enclosed in the bladder and poached in chicken broth.
Advantages Long cooking means more tender meat and allows cooking of beans, lentils, and brown rice.
Clambakes are also popular in Greater Cleveland, even though that region is not near the Atlantic Ocean.
A hardwood, such as oak, pecan, hickory or mesquite is sometimes added, alone or in combination with other hardwoods, to the main heat source.
Quality of machine mincing The food writer Elizabeth David found that a mezzaluna "produces far superior minced meat to that done in the mincing machine, for it does not squeeze out the juices" adding that "few people would care to bother with it nowadays".
Browning is the process of partially cooking the surface of meat to develop its flavor through various browning reactions and give it a more attractive color.
Technique The dish involves cooking all ingredients in a pot of boiling water that just covers the pasta rather than the more-typical technique of boiling the pasta in a large amount of water and making a sauce in a separate pan.
Typical adiabatic temperatures The adiabatic flame temperature of a given fuel-oxidizer pair is the temperature at which the gases achieve stable combustion.
In Greece, meatloaf is called rolo (ρολό) and is usually filled with hard-boiled eggs, although several other variations exist.
The series features nine teams competing in a series of barbecue cooking challenges for A$100,000 worth of prizes.
The definition of pachamanca is the combination of the words pacha and manca, pacha (earth) and manca (cooking pot).
Wine is frequently used as an ingredient for its acidic properties, its bitter tannins, and its fruit components.
Pit beef is a dish of roast beef prepared over a charcoal fire, commonly using top round cuts of beef.
Plastic bags can be solid and impermeable for holding frozen foods; alternatively, bags can be porous or perforated to allow boiling water into the bag.
In stir-fries or other mixed dishes, meats, root vegetables, and other foods that take a long time to cook, will be parcooked, so they finish at the same time as other foods.
Though some believe that the contents of the can boil and flavor the food with the consequent vapor, rigorous tests have invoked skepticism on this point.
But more recently, as pre-cut boards have become widely available, chefs and home cooks across the continent have been experimenting with cooking on planks.
This method is most often used to cook fish or vegetables, but lamb and poultry can also be cooked en papillote.
Some modern home microwave ovens include a structure to cook food with steam vapor produced in a separate water container, providing a similar result to being cooked on a stove.
It is checked whether a stone is solid if they sound hollow when they collide with each other (like river stones).
İnegöl meatballs can consist of veal, lamb, salt, sodium-bicarbonate and onion mixture in specific proportions.
Before they fled, to avoid spoilage of newly plucked leaves, batches were quickly dried over fire and buried in sacks.
Description Karsi khorovats is made with lamb, primarily from the loin and back sections of the carcass.
The neck is repeatedly squeezed and the body pressed to ensure the contents make contact with the hot stones.
Sweet spice rubs are preferred because of the natural saltiness and high nitrate content of the bologna.
Smaller cuts of meat can be grilled in this manner using a round metal basket that slips over the metal skewer.
To do this properly the fire needs to have a reasonable bed of coals and to have burned down to the point where it is not a roaring fire.
Overview Beer can chicken is a barbecued chicken dish and method of indirect grilling, in which an open can of beer or other canned beverage is inserted into the cavity of a chicken and then used to hold the chicken vertically while it cooks on a grill or in an oven.
Curanto (from Mapudungun: kurantu 'stony') is a traditional Chilote method of cooking food using heated rocks buried in an earth oven that is covered with pangue leaves and turf.
In cold sauces like mayonnaise as well as in hot sauces, too large a ratio of fat to egg may also cause curdling.
There are a number of regular knife cuts that are used in many recipes, each producing a standardized cut piece of food.
In some countries (mainly Eastern Europe, Baltic and Nordic countries) rye flour is also used to make a starter.
The word originated in the 18th century edition of the Diccionario de autoridades as: "A dish that is composed and seasoned with broth, spices and other things that are roasted or fried." Today, someone who makes guiso would be called a guisandero.
In Thailand, there are also many famous Thai Muslim varieties of kai yang which are not of Lao origin at all, but more akin to the grilled chicken from Malaysia.
Etymology The word mangal is derived from the Arabic word manqal (منقل) meaning "portable" and originally referred to portable heaters, or braziers, used by Bedouin to warm tents during the cold desert evenings.
Examples Some herbal preparations call for maceration, as it is one way to extract delicate or highly volatile herbal essences without applying heat.
See also Food mill List of food preparation utensils Potato masher Potato ricer - also known as a 'ricer' - is a small, relatively inexpensive kitchen tool == References ==
United States Teriyaki sauce In North America, any dish made with a teriyaki-like sauce is described using the word teriyaki.
This requires a rod extending across the pit opening and a heat-resistant hanging mechanism such as a metal S hook.
The concept has also expanded into suburban areas and upmarket locales, reflecting its broad cultural resonance.
Red cooking, also called Chinese stewing, red stewing, red braising, or flavor potting, is a slow braising Chinese cooking technique that imparts a reddish-brown coloration to the prepared food.
A hog fry is a traditional Oklahoma Cherokee social meal in which large iron kettles are placed over open fires.
Most recipes call for a glaze or sauce with ingredients including pineapple juice, ketchup, soy sauce, honey or brown sugar, sesame oil, ginger, and garlic.
Shocking is a cooking process wherein the food substance, usually a vegetable or fruit, is plunged into iced water or placed under cold running water to halt the cooking process.
This type of oven was also used and introduced to the Iberian Peninsula by the Moors, it was quickly adopted and carried to all Spanish-occupied lands.
When the dish is ready, the cook hands out portions of meat along with the hot stones, which are tossed from hand to hand and are said to have beneficial properties.
The dish consists of minced lamb, mutton, veal or beef, or a mixture of these meats mixed with herbs, often including parsley and mint, placed on a şiş (skewer) and grilled.
Serving Traditionally, méchoui is served with cumin and salt, either on a plate or in a decorative serving dish.
An example of this type of cooker was found in Wales by a Monmouth Archaeological Society excavation.
They are slightly longer and thinner than other variations and are usually served in portions of five to ten pieces.
History Distinctly a South American style rotisserie, it owes its origins to the fireside roasts of the gaúchos of southern Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay, traditionally from the Pampa region, centuries ago.
Buccan or Boucan is the native South American and Caribbean name for a wooden framework or hurdle on which meat was slow-roasted or smoked over a fire.
Makchang gui (막창구이): grilled pork large intestines prepared like samgyeopsal and galbi, and often served with a light doenjang sauce and chopped scallions.
Marmot hunting usually takes place in the fall when the animals are larger and have been preparing for hibernation.
'thin slice'), is an extremely thin, diagonally cut slice that is mostly used to cut firm fish, such as bream, whiting, and flounder.
These enzymes are responsible for the loss of flavor, color, texture, and nutritional qualities during product storage.
Being a typical Laotian dish, it is often paired with green papaya salad and sticky rice (Thai/Isan: ข้าวเหนียว, pronounced [kʰâ(ː)w.nǐaw]; Lao: ເຂົ້າໜຽວ, pronounced [kʰȁ(ː)w.nǐaw]) or eaten with sticky rice in bamboo (khao lam in Lao).
Sautéing may be compared with pan frying, in which larger pieces of food (for example, chops or steaks) are cooked quickly in oil or fat, and flipped onto both sides.
Nitrates and nitrites may cause cancer and the production of carcinogenic nitrosamines can be potently inhibited by the use of the antioxidants vitamin C and the alpha-tocopherol form of vitamin E during curing.
The fishermen needed a way to cook on the boats, so they encased binchōtan coals in a stone box to protect the boat from the intense heat.
Shisa nyama gatherings are not only culinary events but also social rituals, often following weekly church services on Sundays.
A common cooking technique in villages is to wrap fish or other meat in a banana leaf, tie it off, and then place the banana leaf in the heated sand one side at a time.
Several restaurant chains specialize in lechon manok, such as Andok's, Baliwag Lechon Manok, Chooks-to-Go, and Ang Lechon Manok ni Sr.
A notable exception is Augusta, Georgia, which borders South Carolina, where hash is a part of the local food culture.
Slices of smoked bologna are often grilled before consumption, and then dressed in a tomato and mustard-based barbecue sauce.
In the culinary arts, fond is a contraction of fonds de cuisine which is loosely described as "the foundation and working capital of the kitchen".
In Shimanoura, a remote island off the coast of Nobeoka, Miyazaki Prefecture, there is a dish called tatakko (たたっこ), which is similar to namerō, and the grilled dish corresponding to sanga in the Boso Peninsula is also called 'tatakko'.
This attribute allows mixtures of liquids to be separated or partly separated by boiling and is best known as a means of separating ethanol from water.
See also Ćevapi Burdur Şiş Kebab List of kebabs Shish kebab Seekh kebab Lula kebab Kabab koobideh == References ==
In addition to slow cooked barbecue, and smoked meats, Pryles is considered an expert in live fire cooking.
All this is covered with wet sacks, and then with dirt and grass chunks, creating the effect of a giant pressure cooker in which the food cooks for approximately one hour.
See also Brazier Japanese traditional heating devices: Kamado: a kitchen stove Shichirin: a portable brazier Tabako-bon: a mini brazier to light tobacco in kiseru pipes Kotatsu: a covered table over a brazier Japanese tea utensils § Hearths Chagama Tetsubin Japanese cuisine == References ==
Commercial bakers often retard dough at approximately 10 °C (50 °F), while home bakers typically use refrigerators set at about 4 °C (40 °F) or below.
Nowadays it can be either a movable metal pan- or plate-like utensil, a flat heated cooking surface built onto a stove as a kitchen range, or a compact cooking machine with its own heating system attached to an integrated griddle acting as a cooktop.
Numerous recipes for epis exist, as traditionally, Haitian women would cook and have their personal epis recipe.
Parbaking, also known as blind baking, is used for pastry crusts, as in pies and quiches to prevent sogginess.
Horno ( OR-noh; Spanish: [ˈoɾno]) is a mud adobe-built outdoor oven used by the Native Americans and the early settlers of North America.
History The origin of the kebabs or shaokao is generally considered to be related to the nomadic people, but when it appears and flourishes, the text is unknown.
Spatchcock may also be used as a noun to refer to a small bird that has been prepared by spatchcocking.
See also Kabab koobideh, Iranian minced meat Adana kebabı, Turkish minced meat Kebapche, Bulgarian minced meat Mititei, Romanian minced meat Ćevapi, Balkan minced meat İnegöl meatballs, Turkish minced meat Akçaabat meatballs, Turkish minced meat List of meatball dishes == References ==
This is due to the potential for the formation of nitrosamines when the preserved food is cooked at high temperature.
Dicing allows for distribution of flavour and texture throughout the dish, as well as a somewhat quicker cooking time.
See also List of kebabs Satay, a similar dish from Indonesia Yakitori, Japanese variety of skewered meat == References ==
Charles Darwin commented on this phenomenon in The Voyage of the Beagle: "Having crossed the Peuquenes (Piuquenes), we descended into a mountainous country, intermediate between the two main ranges, and then took up our quarters for the night.
The show follows Michael Symon as he explores the art of barbecuing around the United States by traveling to BBQ competitions.
Kotlovina has historically been prepared and served outdoors but is today a common dish served in local restaurants that serve Croatian cuisine.
The provolone, coated with flour and often topped with chilli flakes and oregano, is placed directly on the grill, on small stones or inside a foil plate, and cooked until part-melted.
Traditional and early modern Traditional griddles include a stone or brick slab or tablet, and a shallow platter filled with sand.
The dish is said to be a relatively modern, 20th-century invention, dating back to the time of the Soviet Union's military presence in Mongolia, when Mongolians began cooking with cast-off Red Army water jugs.
The first mincers were hand-cranked; the meat or other food to be minced was fed into the top aperture and propelled through the grinders, emerging as mince through a die at the outlet.
Baking In baking, creaming is the technique of softening solid fat, such as shortening or butter, into a smooth mass and then blending it with other ingredients.
In 2023 she appeared as a special series judge on season 2 of TVNZ's series "Cooks on Fire", airing in New Zealand.
In 1972, Queen Elizabeth II and the British royal family guested Josip Broz Tito and were served with grill dishes by Gligorijević.
Memphis Similar to the Western Carolina style, but using molasses as a sweetener and with additional spices.
Similar techniques In parts of the Arab world, similar tempering techniques include adha or qadha (Levantine Arabic: قدحة, romanized: qadḥah, lit.
Basic technique The food items are added to boiling water and cooked until they start to soften, then removed before they are fully cooked.
Infrared grills allow users to more easily adjust cooking temperature than charcoal grills, and are usually able to reach higher temperatures than standard gas grills, making them popular for searing items quickly.
See also Charcoal lighter fluid, another fire starting aid Electric charcoal starter References External links Media related to Chimney starters at Wikimedia Commons
2023: Pryles was the first chef invited to cook and host the inaugural Vivid festival Fire Kitchen at the famous Sydney Festival.
Smoking Smoking is the process of flavoring, cooking, and/or preserving food by exposing it to smoke from burning or smoldering material, most often wood.
Juicing is generally the preferred method of consuming large amounts of produce quickly and is often completed with a household appliance called a juicer, which may be as simple as a cone upon which fruit is mashed or as sophisticated as a variable-speed, motor-driven device.
Premise The aim of the programme was to find the best amateur barbecuer, with the help of the judges.
History One of the first books written on Spanish cuisine, El Libro de los Guisados, written by Catalan chief Robert de Nola in 1525 CE, was based upon an older, Catalan book called Llibre de Coch, and lists various different recipes of the 15th century Mediterranean.
At the time, the months-long journey from China to Europe necessitated preservation methods and the partial oxidation of this Wuyi tea, an oolong tea graded as bohea or souchong, was better able to preserve its quality.
About Throughout the contest the Top 21 Finalists were given challenges to test their presenting skills, to see if they have what it takes to host their own show on Lifestyle FOOD.
Weber's Barbecue Anytime: Over 190 Inspirational Recipes to Help You Get the Most Out of Your Barbecue, Jamie Purviance, ISBN 978-0600624134, 2012.
Pachamanca (from Quechua pachacode: que promoted to code: qu "earth", mankacode: que promoted to code: qu "pot") is a traditional Peruvian dish baked with the aid of hot stones.
Manufacturers may use their own terminology for this, such as calling it a "locking indicator." Timing the recipe begins when the selected pressure/pressure is reached.
The ash and soot buildup can be easily avoided by applying a thin layer of dish soap (preferably biodegradable) to the outside of the pot before cooking.
The neck is then closed with a wire, and the carcass is singed to remove hair, traditionally over embers, now more commonly with a gas burner.
Productive use for energy Burning fuel converts chemical energy into heat energy; wood has been used as fuel since prehistory.
Marinating or soaking meats in curing salts is one methodology to cure the exterior layers of meat (in similar fashion to how a ham is cured) and cause the perimeter of the meat to remain pink throughout the cooking process.
Ears of corn are steamed, boiled, or grilled usually without their green husks, or roasted with them.
Cooking time is many hours, often more than 12 hours (though much shorter with electric pressure cookers, typically from 60 to 90 minutes).
Porchetta from Umbria is stuffed with the pig's chopped entrails mixed with lard, garlic, salt, and plenty of pepper and wild fennel.
'to fry') in Egypt, which involve frying garlic and sometimes spices (typically coriander) in samneh or olive oil before being added to dishes, most often stews like mulukhiyah.
It requires a lower heat so that the exterior of the food does not overcook by the time the interior reaches the proper temperature, and to keep foods in a moister state.
Since the second reheat finishes the cooking process, foods are not overcooked as leftovers often are.
Products Adolph's meat tenderizers Herbs and spices Marinades Spice blends Seasoning mixes References External links Lawry's website
Red-cooked stews may be heavy in meat content or contain a variety of meats, vegetables, and hard-boiled eggs.
Tire meatballs, which are peculiar to the Tire district of İzmir Province, Turkey, are grilled with a thickness of a pen on thin skewers.
A typical brunoise should be consistent in size and shape, as this helps to create a pleasing and professional presentation.
In Bicol, Quezon, and south in Zamboanga City, it is common for adobo to have coconut milk (known as adobo sa gatâ).
In 2016, Ardie Davis was inducted into the Barbecue Hall of Fame as the Celebrity/Humanitarian candidate.
Purées overlap with other dishes with similar consistency, such as thick soups, creams (crèmes) and gravies—although these terms often imply more complex recipes and cooking processes.
According to the late Haaretz food critic Daniel Rogov, world-renowned chefs have pleaded with one of the steakhouses, Sima, for the recipe, which includes a secret ingredient described as "Georgian pepper".
It holds a 30% approval rating on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, based on 10 reviews, with an average rating of 3.8/10.
Regional variations may also include preserved lemons, onion, ground chili peppers, black pepper, saffron, and other herbs.
These temperature zones may vary between manufacturers, and change over time as the broiler components wear-in or fail.
Practice Sous-vide low-temperature cooking is carried out by vacuum-sealing food in a plastic bag placed in a water bath or combi steamer with precisely controlled temperature for a long time.
Temperature control Pellet grills use automated fuel and air delivery, and can maintain a user-selected temperature.
This is a dish of pork marinated in spices and vegetables, which are cooked in a clay pot until it becomes tender.
Batters consist of dried ingredients such as flour or cornstarch in conjunction with liquids such as milk, water or other beverages.
Preparation Pulled pork, almost always a shoulder cut, is commonly slow-cooked by first applying a dry rub, then smoking over wood.
As such, Jamaican jerk has developed a global following, most notably in American, Canadian and Western European cosmopolitan urban centres.
Cochinita pibil is accompanied with red onion in sour orange and habanero chili, very common in the region.
Cuts of steak differ between countries owing to differences in farming the animal and butchering the carcass.
In most cultures, this form of cooking is usually conducted by women and is served domestically to small closed groups, such as families.
Conching is a process used in the manufacture of chocolate whereby a surface scraping mixer and agitator, known as a conche, evenly distributes cocoa butter within chocolate and may act as a "polisher" of the particles.
This technique is often used as an alternative to, or in conjunction with, pounding out the meat with a meat mallet to make it thinner.
Shrimp paste is made from fermented ground shrimp, either from fresh shrimp or dried ones, with the addition of salt.
History Parbaking is the technique used by "Brown 'n Serve Rolls," which have also been called "blondies." In 1949, the Los Angeles Times described the product as the result of experimentation by a former GI, Joseph A.
Clotted cream, as used in British cuisine, is made by heating cream to scalding temperatures to make it thicker.
Zimbabwe Similar to South Africa, the term braai is also used by Zimbabweans to refer to a barbecue.
The oil absorption rates of shallow-fried foods are similar to that of foods that have been deep-fried at proper temperatures; consequently, shallow-frying is not a better alternative for calorie control or weight management.
The amount of le' will also depend on the season of the year: in the rainy season, more firewood will be put but less cover, and in the dry season, it will be the other way around; the more leaf, the more steam.
Description The flattop grill is a versatile platform for many cooking techniques such as sautéing, toasting, simmering, shallow frying, stir frying, pan frying, browning, blackening, grilling, baking, braising, and roasting, and can also be used for flambéing.
Dry roasting changes the chemistry of proteins in the food, changing their flavor, and enhancing the scent and taste of some spices.
Food Netherlands "Half-om-halfgehakt" (half for half minced meat) is commonly used for mixed minced meat, made of equal amounts of beef and pork.
See also Israel portal Food portal Israeli cuisine Mixed grill List of meat dishes Jewish cuisine Culture of Israel Cuisine of Jerusalem Israeli inventions and discoveries == References ==
In the south of Brazil, however, mostly close to the borders of Argentina and Uruguay, embers of wood are also used.
Purées can be made in a blender, or with special implements such as a potato masher, or by forcing the food through a strainer, or simply by crushing the food in a pot.
However, with the basic method the membrane will continue to thicken until eventually the whole ball is jelly, and so should be used immediately.
Poaching is a cooking technique that involves heating food submerged in a liquid, such as water, milk, stock or wine.
As the process occurs, volatile chemicals such as diacetyl (known for its intense butter-like taste) are released, producing the characteristic caramel flavor.
Aussie Barbecue Heroes (also known as Aussie BBQ Heroes) is an Australian reality competition television series on the Seven Network.
The curanto of the Chiloé Archipelago consists of shellfish, meat, potatoes, milcao chapaleles, and vegetables traditionally prepared in an earth oven.
The process is either done in a regular pan or pot filled with water, either on the stovetop or placed in the oven, or through the use of a special device such as an "egg coddler" (originally known as a pipkin).
The giant burger weighed 63 kilograms (139 lb), was 169 centimetres (67 in) in diameter and 8 centimetres (3.1 in) thick and made by the great grill master Predrag Lazarević (and his team: Ljubiša Đorđević and Bojan Živković).
See also Zarb Dish Kalua Fire pit Earth oven Category index - Earth ovens Category index - Barbecues List of ovens Whole hog barbecue == References ==
He resides in Baltimore, Maryland and Danforth, Maine with third wife Cindy Fahnestock-Schafer, also known as artist and book author Ira Mency.
In 2025, BBQGuys acquired modular outdoor kitchen island and grill manufacturing company, Mont Alpi.
Shrivelling is a natural phenomenon where an object, with an attached sub-elastic covering, has its interior volume reduced in some way.
Confit country is divided roughly into regions where one type of meat predominates the confit preparations.
She writes about fatness, fat acceptance, and anti-fat bias, and have given talks about sexuality, fat positivity, disability justice, and racism.
He was also head of medical services in that country, receiving several Russian and Prussian honours.
Johnson researches adolescent health and substance abuse and violence in marginalized groups including persons of color, LGBT youth, and immigrants.
In the first of these he examined and compared the opinions of ancient and modern writers on the subject.
In 1972, he was elevated to the status of a professor and head of the Psychiatry Department of the University of Ghana Medical School.
In 1976 he worked as a psychologist for prisoners in Western Australia, researching public views on punishment for crimes and court sentencing.
A former All Star Gaelic footballer who played at senior level for Dublin county team for nearly 15 years, he retired from county football in 2005 and spent another four years playing with his club Na Fianna.
After moving to New York City, Butts joined the Planned Parenthood's Board of Directors, through which she met sex researchers Masters and Johnson in the 1970s.
A radio career in iRadio and Spin 1038 followed, before she decided to step away from broadcasting to travel.
Subspecialties The field of psychiatry has many subspecialties that require additional (fellowship) training, which, in the US, are certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN) and require Maintenance of Certification Program to continue.
Charles Sidney Bluemel (17 July 1884 – 17 December 1960) was a British–American psychiatrist and pioneer of speech pathology, best known for his research on stuttering.
As a faculty member of psychology at the University of New Brunswick, she established the Muriel McQueen Fergusson Centre for Family Violence.
With Andrew Matthews, Holmes outlined three different ways that mental imagery alters emotional experiences.
He was confirmed as Dublin senior football team manager on 12 December 2019, succeeding Jim Gavin on a three-year contract.
Minuchin once wrote of Haley as his most important teacher, a man who was "forever pushing the envelope, testing the limits of new ideas" to challenge Minuchin and himself.
Sherwood, was published in 1966 as The Nature of Psychology: A Selection of Papers, Essays and Other Writings by Kenneth J.
She developed opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and meningitis, and as a result she became blind and deaf in one ear.
He served as a professor and Deputy Medical Superintendent at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore.
His residency included trainings in internal medicine, metabolic and eating disorders, and psychiatry at university hospitals in Zurich, London, and Paris.
Second Thoughts on the Theory and Practice of the Milan Approach to Family Therapy (The Systemic Thinking and Practice Series) (1st ed.).
Works His main works are: Observations on the Nature, Kinds, Causes, and Prevention of Insanity, Lunacy, or Madness, London and Leicester, 1782, 1786.
Roland Kuhn (4 March 1912 – 10 October 2005) was a Swiss psychiatrist who discovered that the drug imipramine had antidepressant properties.
Richardson and Emily Preyer Distinguished Professorship at the University of North Carolina School of Social Work and was a fellow at the Frank Porter Graham Child Development Center.
She is an advocate for inclusive education in the Dominican Republic and was UNESCO Chair on Social and Academic Inclusion for People with Disabilities and Special Education Needs at UNIBE from 2013 to 2017.
The assembled group of people decided to form an organization, and adopted the name Vancouver Area Network of Drug Users a year later.
Schwartz came from a Jewish family, but as an adult he adopted multiple beliefs from a variety of different religions.
in Educational Psychology and Counseling, Watson begun her career teaching nursing courses at the CU College of Nursing.
Publications and research He has authored more than 70 peer-reviewed articles in national and international journals and has contributed extensively to public awareness through books and articles in Kannada and English.
According to The Guardian, Singh sees her work as helping intercultural, mixed race and migrant couples.
Joy Harden Bradford (born 1979) is an African American clinical psychologist based in Atlanta, Georgia.
The Center was established in 2005, and focuses their trainings and programs on persons seeking to take personal responsibility to improve their wellness.
University education and career On finishing high school, Poulton moved to Dunedin to attend the University of Otago.
Elias is also responsible for the Catholic Christian Education Committee, and supervises the Catholic Church educational centres in Greater Damascus.
He was appointed physician in ordinary to George IV in 1823, in 1830 physician extraordinary to Queen Adelaide, and in 1833 lord chancellor's visitor in lunacy.
Career Hughes started his career in London in the 1990s before training as a psychologist and psychotherapist.
Felice Lieh–Mak (Chinese: 麥列菲菲; Jyutping: Mak6 Lit6 Fei1-fei1; born (1941-08-10)10 August 1941) is a Hong Kong physician, psychiatrist, academician, editor and retired civil servant, and emeritus professor at the University of Hong Kong.
He started to be known as Andrew Skarbek and in 1969 became clinical director of the London Clinic of Psychotherapy.
He became a lecturer at Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry in 1992, and became a professor there in 1998.
In 1989, botanists John Charles David and David Leslie Hawksworth published Lauderlindsaya, which is a genus of fungi in the family Verrucariaceae and named in Lindsay's honour.
In this work, from the Encyclopædia Edinensis, Poole acknowledges help in early life from Archibald Alison.
His first book, Insatiable Wives, won a Silver Medal in the Foreword Magazine Book of the Year in 2009.
Pasricha studies not just the characteristics of reincarnation prevalent in India, but also suggests ways they are similar or different from those of people in other countries.
While it seems counterintuitive to suppose that introverts are more aroused than extraverts, the putative effect this has on behaviour is such that the introvert seeks lower levels of stimulation.
Honours Donegal Ulster Senior Football Championship: 1972 Ulster Minor Football Championship: 1956 Dr McKenna Cup: 1963, 1965, 1967 Dr Lagan Cup: 1965, 1966, 1967 Donegal Senior Football Championship x5 Democrat Cup x3 == References ==
Because these feelings often are felt insufferable, another layer is built, the layer of defending emotions like anger, aggression, rage and defiance.
He was the author of Visions in Verse, first published in 1751; and a two volume complete collection of his works was published in 1791.
In 2014 he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.
"American Association of Colleges of Nursing, and the Department of Baccalaureate and Higher Degree Programs: Purposes, Roles and Relationships" in National League for Nursing Publications (New York: National League for Nursing, 1974).
She was the first curator at the Kitale Museum when it opened in 1973, under the supervision of Richard Leakey.
Life He was born at 106 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh on 24 June 1833 the son of Jane Graham (1807–1875), from Clonmel, Ireland and William Sibbald (1799–1877).
In 2021, as a member of the Council's committee on equalities, Morrison supported flying the Pride flag at the council's offices in Elgin, and at Secondary Schools around Moray.
Dix traveled from New Hampshire to Louisiana, documenting the condition of the poor mentally ill, making reports to state legislatures, and working with committees to draft the enabling legislation and appropriations bills needed.
He was placed on injured reserve on September 1, 1988, after tearing the connective tissue on his left foot during practice on August 31, 1988.
He was an expert communicator for the government drug education service FRANK, and co-founded the Amy Winehouse Foundation.
From December 2003 to February 2004, she was strategic business manager for Portsmouth City Primary Care Trust.
Transdiagnostic approaches Harvey was among the early proponents of transdiagnostic frameworks in clinical psychology.
Books The Shock of the Fall (HarperFiction, 2013; The Borough Press, 2014) The Heartland (also published as This Book will Change Your Mind about Mental Health ) (Faber, 2019) Audio Why Do I Feel?
He won the Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis (German Youth Literature Award) in 1996 for Als die Welt noch jung war.
Wykle put her vision into practice, going on to direct a geriatric psychiatry graduate nursing program during her early years as a faculty member of Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing.
However, these sessions were terminated after the arrest of one of the organizers, which resulted in people being afraid and refraining from participating.
Together they developed therapeutic community initiatives which laid the foundations for significant advances in psychiatric nursing.
Bell has written articles on psychology and neuroscience for several newspapers and magazines, including The Guardian, Discover, Slate, Wired UK, The Independent and The Atlantic.
Her mother, a Jehovah's Witness, attempted to "cure" her of her lesbianism after she fell in love with a girl.
Anderson nevertheless trained successfully as a nurse at Nottingham General Hospital and did psychiatric nursing at the Coppice Hospital.
A fluent Spanish speaker, for several years he undertook teaching and clinical work at university facilities in Colombia and worked as a mental health coordinator for Médecins sans Frontières in difficult conditions.
Career and activism Graham worked as an addiction counsellor and therapist, running his own drug rehabilitation company which included a weekly LGBTI addiction and recovery therapy group.
He became deeply interested in the legal status of the medical profession, and organised the Association of Surgeon-Apothecaries of England and Wales, with the object of improving the education and status of the profession.
Transdiagnostic Intervention for Sleep and Circadian Dysfunction Harvey co-developed the Transdiagnostic Intervention for Sleep and Circadian Dysfunction (also known as TranS-C or TSC) with Daniel J.
She was named by Time magazine as one of their Europeans of the Year in 2003 and in 2016 won the Irish Council for Civil Liberties Human Rights Film award for her coverage of the refugee crisis.
The following year, she returned to the university and worked in strength training as a graduate assistant.
On 20 April 2010 Indermaur was a speaker at the Rally For Your Rights event, organized by Search For Your Rights, where he criticized stop and search laws.
She was awarded the ‘100 Women Achievers of India’ in 2016 by the President of India for her work on mental health.
Additionally, Davis and University of Birmingham colleagues will work to translate prior research on alcohol-related sexual assault into real-world prevention practices.
Dr Archibald Campbell Clark FFPSG (1852–1901) was a nineteenth-century Scottish physician who made major advances in mental health care philosophies.
There he received his master's degree in science and his postgraduate diploma in clinical psychology.
She pointed out that a large proportion of existing psychiatric hospitals did not have full approval for training.
After working at Bacon Health Center, she was transferred to the Delaware State Psychiatric Hospital in 1963.
Following that additional support, Woebot has been suspected to reduce depression and anxiety symptoms within as little as the passage of two weeks.
Research Rindermann does research in educational psychology, developmental psychology, differential psychology, pedagogy, and clinical psychology.
She graduated in 2009 with a degree in English Literature and Cinema Studies from the College of Arts & Science of the New York University.
He then returned to India to study theology at De Nobili College in Pune and was ordained to the priesthood in March 1961.
He practiced psychiatry in Denver and was the owner of Mount Airy Sanitarium (1927–1953), a private psychiatric hospital.
In 1954 he returned to the United States to be trained in psychoanalysis at the William Alanson White Institute.
1999-2007 he was president of the international Society for Gestalt Theory and its Applications (GTA).
In 1858 he was elected a Fellow of the Linnean Society (FLS) and in 1861 a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Believing that art "transcended reality", Kaupas belonged to a generation of literary critics dubbed the lankininkai, after their magazine Literatūros lankai.
Lazarus, early writer in CBT Richard Lazarus Tatia Lee Harriet Lerner Marsha Linehan, founder of dialectical behavior therapy M Isaac Marks Paul R.
However by 1906 the magistrates had started to become disillusioned with the efficacy of the inebriate reformatories.
She attended Indiana University, where she was a member of Alpha Gamma Delta sorority, and she earned a degree in zoology at the University of Kentucky.
Her presentations, Expert Testimony in Cases of Child Sexual Abuse and Identification of Red Flag Sexual Grooming Behaviors: Implications for Practice, were offered live and are also available on demand.
When she arrived at Yale, Taylor was selected to become a superintendent at the Yale–New Haven Hospital while teaching.
Career David founded the management consulting firm Evidence Based Psychology in 1999 and serves as its CEO.
She started a walk-in clinic, a mobile clinic, and a telephone helpline, and her efforts were credited with contributing to lowering the suicide rate in the city.
From the age of one, she lived in an apartment in Frankfurt with her parents and her paternal grandmother, Selma, who was a widow.
In 1982, he moved to England, where he joined the Institute of Psychiatry's Addiction Research Unit.
Tuesdays with Morrie Schwartz achieved national prominence posthumously after being featured as the subject of Mitch Albom's 1997 best-selling memoir, Tuesdays with Morrie.
His role as Commissioner of Lunacy was based at 51 Queen Street and he lived at 13 Heriot Row which faces that building across Queen Street Gardens.
Publications Réseau Alternative à la psychiatrie (1977) Formations et pratiques en thérapie familiale (1985) Les pratiques de réseaux : santé mentale et contexte social (1987) Si tu m’aimes, ne m’aime pas.
Her 1977 article for Ebony magazine, "Sex Education: Who Needs It?", was the Ebony's first feature on the topic.
In 2019, he became professor and chair of psychiatry and psychotherapy at the University of Fribourg.
Career Christmas left private practice to set up the Harlem Hospital Rehabilitation Center and to teach at Columbia University.
Clemmons's work was recognized by the American Psychiatric Association, and she won the Federal Woman's Award in 1972, "for singular professional competence and qualities of human understanding".
In 2018 the Conservative-Independent administration collapsed and the SNP formed a minority administration.
Festschrift für Martin Salzer (in German), Wien: Rebell, ISBN 978-3-9500516-0-5 Monika Salzer; Peter Karner [in German] (2008), Vom Christbaum zur Ringstraße.
Life After training in clinical psychology, Hetherington worked for a period in the Creighton Royal Hospital in Dumfries about which he wrote Hetherington, 1956).
This was a time when divorced women were still stigmatized, and part of her mission in opening Rockhaven was so that women would be treated with respect.
Career Stevenson trained as a psychiatric nurse before completing a BA (Hons) in psychology and sociology at Sunderland Polytechnic.
It was awarded the 1998 British Psychological Society Book Award for significant contributions to psychology and remains a definitive text in this field, recently being reprinted for a 20th anniversary edition.
In 1957, Kuhn published the results of his observations of the antidepressant properties of Imipramine in the Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift (Swiss Weekly Medical Journal).
"Terrorism, distress and coping: High versus low impact regions and direct versus indirect civilian exposure." Anxiety, Stress, and Coping 18.3 (2005): 165-182.
Exploratory therapy, Genspect and SEGM O'Malley advocates for "exploratory therapy" in response to gender dysphoria and has written and testified about how some conversion therapy bills risk limiting access to exploratory therapy.
After training in clinical psychology she completed a PhD on depression among women at the University of Oxford (1985).
Duncan was the inaugural President of the society and served as one of its Secretaries for 46 years from 1782-1828.
References External links Jane and Littleton Mitchell Center for African American Heritage - Big Picture (2016 video)
Louis Francisque Lélut (1804–1877) was a French medical doctor and philosopher known for his works Démon de Socrate and L'Amulette de Pascal, where he stated that Socrates and Blaise Pascal were insane.
She also acquired certifications in sex and relationship therapy from the Cambridge Health Alliance of Harvard Medical School and Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS).
Academic career Spring has held faculty appointments in preventive medicine, psychology, and psychiatry, and has worked at the intersection of behavioral science and public health.
She established Positive Movement to champion sexual and reproductive health rights and build an inclusive society that does not judge people based on disabilities or HIV status.
Burns created the first federal initiatives in children's mental health services research at the National institute of Mental Health in the late 1980s.
From 2017 to 2023, Horsham was a councillor for the Clydesdale South ward on for South Lanarkshire Council.
In 1927, she moved to England because the Commonwealth Fund of America requested her to do an experiment to work on clinics for children.
As chairman of this body Burrows was most indefatigable, and had a large share in the movement which led to the passing of the Apothecaries' Act in 1815.
Asagwara served as a member of the former Premier's Advisory Council on education, poverty, and citizenship, and as a member of the Women's Health Clinic board of directors.
His prose is described as cleansing the Lithuanian tradition of poetic speech and turning it into a direction of universality and playfulness which does not seek ideological arguments to strengthen the nation's existence.
At Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, she became director of behavioral medicine and later directed the Center for Behavior and Health within the Institute for Public Health and Medicine.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.911629 Makol, B.A., Youngstrom, E.A., Racz, S.J., Qasmieh, N., Glenn, L.E., & De Los Reyes, A.
Burns died on January 28, 2024, after living at the Carol Woods Retirement Community for three years.
INTAR: The International Network Toward Alternatives and Recovery (together with Laurie Ahern & Peter Stastny).
at St Andrews in October 1769, and in May 1770 became a licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.
Keegan also won a National Football League medal in 1979, though injury prevented him from playing against Cork in the final.
Jürg Schubiger (14 October 1936 – 15 September 2014) was a Swiss psychotherapist and writer of children's books.
He is co-editor (executive editor 2000–2012) of the international multidisciplinary journal "Gestalt Theory" (de Gruyter) and of the journal "Phänomenal - Zeitschrift für Gestalttheoretische Psychotherapie" (Krammer).
The Trans Writers Union also announced a boycott of the paper due to what they characterised as advocating conversion therapy and a pattern of transphobic behavior.
She died of leukemia at the Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo, after having concealed her illness until the last six weeks of her life.
Approche systémique et psychothérapie (1989) La thérapie familiale en changement (1994) Panorama des thérapies familiales À quel psy se vouer ?
"Antipsychotics, Other Psychotropics, and the Risk of Death in Patients With Dementia: Number Needed to Harm".
Surely, the righteous are taken away from the evil to come, and we are left to struggle on under increasing difficulties.
David wrote the self-help book Emotional Agility, which was published with Penguin Random House in 2016.
Daniella Moyles is an Irish psychotherapist, broadcaster and former model from Naas, County Kildare.
In 2009, the German version of ICD-10 GM introduced the new diagnosis F45.41 "Chronic pain with mental and somatic factors".
She has represented the IPC at the Vista Conference, the Africa Continental Organisational Capacity Program for National Paralympic Committees and co-facilitated the Africa Women in Leadership workshops.
Heba Kotb (Arabic: هبة قطب; born September 19, 1967) is an Egyptian certified sex therapist and host of The Big Talk, a sexual advice show airing in Egypt.
Lord Shaftesbury (as Ashley had become upon his father's death in 1851) was the chief witness and opposed the suggestion that the certification of insanity be made more difficult and that early treatment of insanity was essential if there was to be any prospect of a cure.
Over the course of the following fourteen seasons he enjoyed much success, the highlight being in 1936 when he won an All-Ireland medal.
Articles In 2021, his article What are Attachment Styles and How Do They Influence Adult Behavior appeared in Choosing Therapy.
More recently, it was discovered that he tested drugs on patients and children without informed consent and without proper approval by the authorities during his time at the psychiatric hospital in Münsterlingen (where he was director 1971–1980), a practice that is highly unethical.
Ayesha Chundrigar (Urdu: عائشہ چندریگر) is a Pakistani animal welfare activist, entrepreneur and journalist.
In 2005, Copeland's work led to the creation of the non-profit, the Copeland Center for Wellness and Recovery which continues her work through trainings around the world.
In 1792 he became Principal Physician as successor to his father, while he also inherited his father's private asylum at Brooke House in Clapton.
He left an estate worth $2,757,000 much of which he gave in endowments to several US universities and other institutions.
Education and career Indermaur graduated from the University of Western Australia, obtaining a masters in clinical psychology in 1979 and a Doctor of Law in 1997.
He has designed a number of noted approaches to working in clinical settings, including The DICES Risk Assessment and Management System and The RAID Course for Working with Challenging Behaviour.
Helen Brew had been still at high school when she heard Bevan-Brown lecture, and was "hugely impressed".
Career From 1898 to 1914, he was one of the Commissioners in Lunacy, a UK public body established by the Lunacy Act 1845 to oversee the asylums and the general welfare of the mentally ill.
In 1895 he was appointed Chief Medical Superintendent of the newly completed asylum - Hartwood Hospital, serving Lanark.
As a result, she began researching the topic, eventually coming across a passage in the Qur'an discussing sexual relations between husbands and wives that she saw as speaking to the woman's sexual rights.
He has appeared at writers’ festivals and workshops in South Africa and, more recently, in Sydney, Australia, where he now lives with his wife and their three children.
Provence was named an All-American by The Sporting News while garnering Associated Press Third-team All-American and Gannett News Service Second-team All-American accolades in 1982.
Batten has spoken about how her friendship with Eagle ‘unlocked her art,’ and ‘crystallised her ideas.’ Eagle in turn has also acknowledged Batten for her own shift to environmental issues.
In 1985, he won another poetry competition with his poem called Scott’s first voyage, in a competition that was held by the Poetry Association of Scotland.
She had been a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Galway West constituency from 2016 until her election as president in 2025.
Emigration to the United States Kaupas and his wife emigrated to the United States, reaching New York on 18 February 1950.
and is also Professor II of Clinical Psychology at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology.
She also co-hosts The Sexy Minds podcast with Boys’ Night Out’s Tony Toni, where they talk about Filipino sexual experiences and behaviors.
Her 1995 dissertation was titled, Regulation of adult neurogenesis in the rat dentate gyrus by adrenal steroids and excitatory input.
Sudders holds a bachelor's degree with honors and a master's degree in social work from Boston University, and honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts School of Professional Psychology and Bridgewater State University.
He has also been a panelist on the BBC Radio 2 Book Club, BBC Radio 3's Free Thinking and BBC Radio 4's Open Book, Front Row, All in the Mind and the Today Programme.
Arndt also takes a conservative view on having children outside of marriage, and has questioned the dedication of mothers entering parliament.
These were acquired during his tenure as physician to Alexander I of Russia and during his travels throughout Europe when he was studying medicine.
Bryan Waller Procter (21 November 1787 – 5 October 1874), who wrote under the pseudonym Barry Cornwall, was an English poet who served as a Commissioner in Lunacy.
She founded her own consultancy firm in February 2017, joining the National Association for Education and Training Support in Bahrain that April.
From 2000 to 2004, she initiated and developed a process of developing the organisation of the Protestant Church of the Augsburg Confession, together with Michael Bünker, then director of the Religionspädagogische Akademie, and Thomas Krobath from the Kirchliche Pädagogische Hochschule Wien/Krems.
She is founder of the Ayesha Chundrigar Foundation, a non profit animal rescue organization based in Karachi, Pakistan.
In this position he established a training programme in clinical psychology and co-authored a textbook for medical students.
He was often criticized by the medical establishment for his "overly liberal" methods of treatment, as he favored allowing patients the right to express themselves via art, and discouraged the widespread practices of physical restraint and punishment of asylum patients in that day.
Early life and education Linda Lucille Wiley was born in Evansville, Indiana, and graduated from Evansville Central High School in 1963.
thesis, entitled 'Measurement of patient-nurse interaction in relation to in-patient psychiatric treatment', was supervised by Elsie Stephenson in 1967.
His league and championship career at senior level with the Mayo county team lasted fourteen seasons from 1934 until 1948.
Key publications Wells' first book Attention and Emotion: A Clinical Perspective (co-authored with Gerald Matthews) presented a critique and framework for applying cognitive psychology to the understanding of psychopathology.
Further career In 1958 Nicolas joined the staff of the General Nursing Council (GNC) for England and Wales as an inspector of nurse training schools.
He is also a Clinical Director at Somer Counseling and Psychotherapy, and serves as scientific advisor in Trauma and Dissociation Israel.
The piece was a rebuttal to the essay Remissions: Toward a Deconstruction of Phallic Univocality written by art critic and theorist Lita Barrie in 1986.
Befrienders are carefully selected volunteers, from a variety of organisations and mental health charities, who are trained to provide support and companionship to lonely, or emotionally distressed, people.
She is also the lead author on a meta-analysis of the symptoms of the prodrome to bipolar disorder, which provided a foundation for work by her and others aiming to predict the risk of onset of bipolar disorder.
Moreover, in a letter to William Montgomerie, Abbot admitted that the idea of risking all on full-time writing scared him.
He specialised in psychosis and neuropsychology and graduated with a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
(In the Netherlands, a distinction is made between arts in opleiding tot specialist (AIOS) and arts niet in opleiding tot specialist (ANIOS).
In January 2016, she got felicitated by the President of India, Pranab Mukherjee, as one of the top 100 Women Achievers of the country.
Langner (January 1, 1924 – March 16, 2026) was an American sociologist who led the Midtown Manhattan Study, which showed the cultural and economic forces that shape mental illness.
Rief's research examines the psychological factors involved in the development, maintenance and management of physical complaints, including investigations of somatic symptom disorders and placebo effects.
This work includes the examination of interventions aimed at improving these outcomes in this population, quality of housing for adults with complex needs, and collaborative care models in mental health.
Senate profile (2020) Archived 22 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine Chamber of Senators (in Spanish).
Munnelly made his senior debut for Mayo during the 1934–35 league and quickly became a regular member of the starting fifteen.
Council of Representatives Kamal entered politics by running in the 2018 Bahraini general election for the Council of Representatives, in which she ran for the second district in the Capital Governorate.
Hayes Stefan Hofmann Olivia Hooker Karen Horney, founder of feminist psychology and major theorist of conflict-based neuroses.
Harry Keegan (born 12 January 1952) is an Irish former Gaelic footballer who played as a corner back for the Roscommon senior team.
In 2005, his second novel Tingling was banned for a while since he touched upon the Omani security services.
Billig asserts that in the same year Eysenck also became a member of the comité de patronage of GRECE's Nouvelle École.
Chitra Raghavan is a clinical psychologist in New York City, specializing in domestic violence, sex trafficking, sexual harassment, rape, and other types of violent acts against humans.
She has won the Research award of the Australasian Society for Intellectual Disability four times since 1993.
Seehl published An Easy Method of Procuring the Volatile Acid of Sulphur in Philosophical Transactions in 1744.
He wrote of his "discovery" in A mite cast into the treasury of the famous city of London, being a brief and methodical discourse of the nature, causes, symptomes, remedies and preservation from the plague, in this calamitous year, 1665, digested into aphorismes.
He claimed to have studied anatomy under John Hunter, and from about 1750 he practised as a surgeon and apothecary at Redruth.
Early in 1810 Charles Philip Yorke insisted on the exclusion of strangers from the House of Commons during the debates on the Walcheren expedition.
Philippe Sylvestre Dufour (born Manosque 1622, died Vevey (Canton de Vaud) 1687) was a French Protestant apothecary, banker, collector, and writer based in Lyon.
He was a member of the Pennsylvania Prison Society and president of the Pennsylvania Humane Society.
The next year he became a physician to the Landgrave Georg II of Hesse-Darmstadt and then to Georg Wilhelm of Brandenburg.
Geoffrey Tweedale, At the Sign of the Plough: 275 years of Allen & Hanburys and the British pharmaceutical industry, 1715–1990 (1990) ISBN 0-7195-4786-5.
Because Phytanthoza iconographia was to become Ehret's first published work, he set about the project with great enthusiasm.
They were painted when the fraktur tradition in Pennsylvania was at its height, and accordingly they bear its imprint, as well as the influence of Christian devotional prints and illustrated Bibles popular during the period.
Thomas Monro] and Apothecary of Bethlem Hospital upon the Evidence before the House of Commons on Madhouses, 1816; Haslam's observations are on pp.
Other artefacts displayed at the museum were obtained from private donors, the Faculty of Pharmacy at the University of Toronto, and from the collection of the Ontario College of Pharmacy.
In addition to the eponymous disease, Parkinson is commemorated in the names of several fossil organisms, including the ammonite Parkinsonia parkinsoni, the crinoid Apiocrinus parkinsoni, the snail Rostellaria parkinsoni, and the tree Nipa parkinsoni.
The pharmacy is still part of Merck KGaA, but the original building was destroyed during World War II in the bombing campaigns, and therefore it is a new construction.
It then had several owners before it was acquired by Lord Duveen who presented it to the British National Gallery in 1934.
As writers, both wrote many poems, religious treatises, scientific and historical works and translations, and theatrical and musical pieces, including the first Dutch opera.
John Haslam (1764–1844) was an English apothecary, physician and medical writer, known for his work on mental illness.
Their children included: Alexander Thomson of Duddingston, advocate, (died 1603), who married Margaret Preston in 1594, a daughter of Samuel Preston of Craigmillar, and widow of Walter Cant.
Lucas was one of 49 physicians and chirurgeons who declared their public support for the construction of a Publick Bath in Dublin in May 1771 and named Achmet Borumborad as a well qualified individual for carrying such a scheme into existence.
His family was related to the famous lawyer José Presas y Marull, an anglophile, who served as secretary of Carlota Joaquina of Spain.
Craigie sent Mary Allen to the Moravian Boarding School for Girls in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, in 1779.
His daughter Jane married Shrewsbury goldsmith Thomas Gittins on 11 December 1599, and had at least three children by 1615: Thomas, Symon, and Elizabeth.
The bills were checked and certified by the Prince's chamberlain Robert Cary and the physician John Craig, and another bill presented in 1619 was countersigned by Matthew Lister a physician who served Anne of Denmark.
Hugh Tait, 'Wedgwood, Flaxman, and an English eighteenth-century portrait carver, Silvanus Bevan.' Proceedings of the Wedgwood Society, No 3, 1959.
Biography Olcott was trained as an apothecary, which was the precursor of the modern pharmacist profession.
540-545 With Lassone, Mémoire sur la nature de la substance saline acide que l'on retire de la cerise, de la groseille, etc., Académie royale des sciences, 1786, p.
Government in Albemarle Shortly after that, Eastchurch appointed Miller as the Interim Governor and President of the Executive Council of Albemarle, having obtained a commission.
He seems to have sold books, missals, and offertory candles to the king, although similar books were also provided by a man called by "John Foular".
Competing apothecaries and perfumers Rumler wrote to King James about George Shires or Shiers, a former servant of Master Morgan, an apothecary to the late Anne of Denmark.
In a similar vein, but with a smaller scope was one of the first publications of Lambert's brother Govert, Letters of the Marytyred Apostles (1675).
They had ten children, including the sons Joachim (1768–1801) and Hans Timm (1774–1852), who one after the other succeeded their father as the official apothecary in Malchin.
Following the war William attained wealth and landholdings, but lost much of his fortune following the restoration.
Historisch-kritische Untersuchung der Alchemie oder der eingebildeten Goldmacherkunst, von ihrem Ursprunge sowohl als Fortgange, und was nun von ihr zu halten sey.
He was a member of several secret political societies, including the London Corresponding Society and the Society for Constitutional Information.
In the nineteenth century, under William Allen and the Hanbury family, Allen & Hanburys became one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in London.
Spreul's wife died while he was in prison and he petitioned for his full release, rather than being sent to the American plantations as a slave, when in 1686 there were some concessions from the regime.
Works About 1798 he published Observations on the Tussis Convulsiva, or Hoopping-cough, as read at the Lyceum Medicum Londinense.
Biography He was a direct descendant of company founder Friedrich Jacob Merck, who had purchased the Engel-Apotheke (Angel Pharmacy) in Darmstadt in 1668.
Johann Udalric Rumler Rumler's brother or relative Johann Udalric Rumler studied at various German and Italian universities, supported by Raymund Fugger, an Imperial Count of the mercantile patriciate of the Fugger family.
Career In April 1598, Edinburgh burgh hosted a banquet for Anne of Denmark's brother, Ulrik, Duke of Holstein, at the house of Ninian MacMorran at Riddle's court.
On 11 March 1796 in that year he, and John Binns delivered lectures, as delegates from the London Corresponding Society, in Birmingham; but the meeting was broken up.
Adam Drummond of Binend (1679–1758) was a Scottish surgeon-apothecary who was appointed, jointly, as the first Professor of Anatomy at the University of Edinburgh.
On 7 May 1860 he was appointed professor of medical jurisprudence and toxicology at Queen's College, Birmingham (a predecessor college of Birmingham University).
He fought in the Battle of Campaldino (June 11, 1289), with the Florentine Guelphs against Arezzo Ghibellines; he fought as a feditore, responsible for the first attack.
Between 1756 and 1758, he studied natural sciences, physics and chemistry in Copenhagen and in 1761 he went to Uppsala and studied botany and zoology under Carl von Linné.
On qualifying, he moved to Bath, where he practised is profession from premises in Trim Street with partner Thomas West.
Scholar Suzanne Amigues suggested that this Aristophilus was the same person as the pharmakopōlēs named "Aristobulus" described by Aeschines in his Against Ctesiphon, father of the youth Aristion of Plataea who lived for a time in the house of the statesman Demosthenes.
In many of his poems, she is depicted as semi-divine, watching over him constantly and providing spiritual instruction, sometimes harshly.
Life Born on 29 September 1755, was the eldest son of John Field, an apothecary in extensive practice in Newgate Street, London, by his wife, Anne, daughter of Thomas Cromwell, grocer, who was a grandson of Henry Cromwell, lord deputy of Ireland.
Mocquet wrote and published an account of his voyages, Voyages en Afrique, Asie, Indes orientales et occidentales published in 1617.
He became a master apothecary in 1748, and in 1752 he was admitted to the Académie des sciences as a supernumerary adjoint chemist.
Johann Christian Wiegleb (December 21, 1732 – January 16, 1800) was a notable German apothecary and early innovator of chemistry as a science.
In 1450, Landucci began keeping the diary that would posthumously prove his claim to fame, diligently recording events of the day until his death.
In common with his colleagues Field afterwards received the thanks of the corporation and a piece of plate.
Samuel More (30 November 1726 – 11 October 1799) was an English apothecary and administrator associated with the Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce.
By his wife, Judith Chamberlaine, he had a son Abraham, who married Anne, daughter of Sir Richard Sandys of Northbourne Court, Kent; and a daughter, Anne, married to Sir Richard Sprignell, bart., of Coppenthorpe, Yorkshire.
All you have to do is brave the market horde to their quiet corner and shed all preconceived notions.
On 26 November 1604, Anne of Denmark appointed him to provide sweet powders, waters, perfumes and other products.
I will not cease working to recover the honor [even] of those women who have forgotten it, and perhaps I will be the catalyst for the reawakening of their intellect.
The Political Graveyard Plan of Say Burial Ground Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine, at 3rd and Arch Streets in Philadelphia Watercolor of grave marker
Normally the sight of prayer flags and the smell of incense repel me, but the store’s herbs and other products, along with the knowledgeable service, have made Tenzing Momo part of my regular routine...
He was banished by the Imperial Court to Izu Ōshima on June 26, 699, but folk tales at least as old as the Nihon Ryōiki (c.
Erculiani was very educated, despite her claims otherwise—in her works, she often cites Galen and Aristotle.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl (~27) married Sarah Perry (~22) (daughter of Philip Perry and Elizabeth Flemming; sister of John Perry Sr and aunt of John Perry, shipwrights of Blackwall Yard) at St Andrew Undershaft, City of London, on 19 Nov 1745.
In 1766 Lucas unsuccessfully opposed a bill to prevent the exportation of grain, on the ground that certain alterations made in it by the English privy council were detrimental to the rights of the Irish parliament.
He spoke effectively at the British and Westminster forums, and publicly supported the progress of the French Revolution.
In 1730, perhaps somewhat piqued by Philip Miller's issue of his Catalogus in that year, Rand printed an Index plantarum officinalium in horto Chelseiano.
He succeeded his father in his profession, and in 1807 was elected apothecary to Christ's Hospital, a post which he continued to fill until within a short time of his death.
By 1691, the club included Martin Lister, Tancred Robinson, John Watts, Nehemiah Grew, William Sherard, Samuel Doody, Leonard Plukenet, Charles Hatton, Adam Buddle, and Samuel Dale.
He bequeathed his houses in Langthorne to his sons and wife, and his apothecary's shop to his son John.
John Moffet (April 5, 1831 – June 19, 1884) was an Irish-American politician who served as a Democratic member of the U.S.
In 1754 he introduced the concept of a base into chemistry as a substance which reacts with an acid to form a salt.
In 1719 he published a scurrilous ‘Examination’ of John Woodward's ‘State of Physick and Diseases.’ A reply, entitled ‘An Account of Dr.
But it can function as more than just a pit-stop for vacationing hippies or angst-ridden teen witches if you let it—the store's staff are herbal sommeliers.
In the same year he published an edition of the Loimologia of Nathaniel Hodges, and a collection of ‘Medico-physical Essays’ on ague, fevers, gout, leprosy, king's evil, and other diseases.
During his role he punished the anti-proprietors for several offences which they had apparently committed.
He established his business on St Martin's Lane, selling in particular his Pastilles de Blois made from licorice.
Olcott then started his own apothecary business, which turned into a successful semi-jobbing business located at the corner Madison and Catherine streets.
They remarked they had "too much reason to apprehend" that it had "been of very bad consequence this war." Parr was a member of the African Company of Merchants whose purpose was to lobby in favour of the slave trade.
He served as a physician to several members of royalty and nobility but earned notoriety after several of his cures were questionable and proved deadly.
Wiegleb analyzed minerals, the formation of saltpetre on walls and the formation of silicic acid from the reaction of hydrofluoric acid and glass.
Dubbed "The Cliffs", it overlooked the Schuylkill River near Gray's Ferry, just upriver from the Bartram estate.
He published an account of his travels in 1617, Voyages en Afrique, Asie, Indes orientales et occidentales.
He was also for many years the treasurer of the London Annuity Society for the benefit of the widows of apothecaries, in Chatham place, Blackfriars, of which institution his father was the founder in 1765.
On completion of his apprenticeship he went, as was the custom of the day, for further education at a continental University.
Works In Leonard Plukenet's Mantissa, published in that year, he is mentioned as the discoverer, in Tothill Fields, Westminster, of the plant now known as Rumex palustris, and was described (p.
During the last years of her husband's life she managed the pharmacy as he was bedridden and ill, and upon his death she inherited the pharmacy and work license in accordance with existing guild regulations.
Agen in the early 17th century was at the crossroads of the religious debate revolving around the new Protestant faith.
He named the white admiral butterfly, and gave the name fritillary to another group of butterflies after the Latin word for a chequered dice box.
In his essay on The Practice and Theory of Inoculation he narrates his experience in three hundred and fifty cases, only one having died by the smallpox so induced.
2012: Bibliography of the entomological literature from the beginning until 1863 : online database – version 1.0 – Senckenberg Deutsches Entomologisches Institut.
After completing his education, he started working for a chemist and was also believed to have provided medical advice and even occasional surgery and midwifery.
Political career At the 1690 English general election Chase was returned as Member of Parliament for Great Marlow in Buckinghamshire.
Bass John in poetry After his release Bass John took as motto on his crest the words, "Sub pondere cresco" which translates as "under weight I grow" or "I thrive under burdens".
He further asserted that the venom is contained in a poison bag (gland), but the snake is only venomous when it is irritated.
After Priestley's publication of a method to make carbonated water, Henry manufactured "artificial Pyrmont and Seltzer waters" for sale in the late 1770s, imitating the famous sparkling mineral waters, e.g.
Mocquet was apparently commissioned by King Henry IV to collect items fitting for furnishing a cabinet of curiosities during his travels.
Life Samuel Doody was the eldest of the second family of his father, John Doody, who according to many sources was noted as an apothecary in Staffordshire.
She was a sister of Sir Walter Peyton of Sutton Coldfield, an adventurer with the English East India Company who served as factor (in 1614) and subsequently captain or commander (1616) of the Expedition, sailing to Bantam (Banten) and Tecoe on Java.
Alderman Sir Samuel Cooke and James La Touche also came forward, and although the views of Lucas and Latouche were practically identical, neither would withdraw.
Rumler and Chambers had come to Kenilworth in the retinue of Prince Charles during his progress when Ben Jonson's, Masque of Owls was performed.
More went on to apprentice under an apothecary in Whitechapel and afterwards opened his own business with his family inheritance.
The opinion was that of Boerhaave, Cheyne, and others, that the development of smallpox after exposure to infection could be checked by a timely use of the æthiops mineral.
He was inducted into the Leopoldina academy in 1722 and was a member of the Royal Society of London.
Bidloo's poetic review of the best Dutch writers constitutes one of the first historical presentations of this literary tradition.
Clarke eventually retired to Loughborough in Leicestershire, leaving his business to his son, William.
He later started a public course in his laboratory in 1738, in 1742 he was appointed experimental demonstrator of chemistry at the Jardin du Roi in Paris.
487-496 Observation sur les différents sels que l'on retire par la lixiviation des cendres du tamaris, pris en différents lieux, Académie royale des sciences, 1779, p.
His description of the natives of South America is sympathetic, and contains detailed descriptions of ethnological interest.
Before the text there are several occasional poems attached by other poets, including fellow Mennonite Pieter Langendijk.
Main works Le Cene (1549), a collection of stories in the manner of Boccaccio, and a number of prose comedies.
'En the ascetic'), En no Ubasoku (役優婆塞, "En the Layman") , or also under the full name En no Kimi Ozunu, where Kimi (君) is his kabane or titular name.
Garencières first came to public attention in 1647, when he claimed that sugar was bad for the health.
The lords justices refused (15 May 1749) his request to transmit it to the king, with a "Dedication to his Majesty." But on the return of Lord Harrington, Lucas waited on him at the castle on 8 October, and gave him a copy, together with a collection of his political addresses.
William Hudson FRS (1730 in Kendal – 23 May 1793) was a British botanist and apothecary based in London.
His second marriage was to Katherine Babington, widow, who was from the same line as Anthony Babington.
He is reported to have discussed this possibility over a Convivio-Medical Society dinner at the Ship Inn in Alveston.
Theophilus de Garencières (1610–1680) was a French apothecary who spent most of his life practising in England.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Goodwin, Gordon (1889).
Later, the company also started providing therapeutic drugs and chemicals such as acids, elixirs, tinctures, and essential oils.
Moyse Charas, or Moses Charas (2 April 1619 – 17 January 1698), was an apothecary in France during the reign of Louis XIV.
His pamphlet was resented by his fellow apothecaries, but was the cause of an act being passed for the inspection of medicines.
1650) was a German apothecary from Augsburg who served the English royal family in the households of Prince Henry, Anne of Denmark, King James and Charles I of England.
He possessed an estate at Roxton, Bedfordshire, the manor of Sharsted, Kent, where some of his descendants still resided as of the 19th century, a mansion in Blackfriars, London, and extensive property in Virginia and the Bermudas.
He managed numerous specimens received by post and was routinely sending collection instructions to his correspondents (he had nearly 80 in America).
He was the son of John Parkinson, an apothecary and surgeon practising in Hoxton Square in London, and the oldest of five siblings, including his brother William and his sister Mary Sedgwick.
Botany In 1711, around the time Sherard finished composing his second set of sonatas, the Duke died, and Sherard's interest in music seems to have died with him.
After witnesses were interviewed and depositions given, the House of Representative voted that Myers was the winner of the election.
He declined to recognise the legality of his restraint or to petition for his release, and was, it is said, only got out at last by a stratagem.
He is described as a 'remarkable man upon whose judgement in difficult negotiations the Company had come to rely with increasing confidence'.
History Because of the unregulated nature of pharmaceutical enterprises throughout much of the 19th century and early 20th century, drugs were sold at many establishments, including bookstores and general stores.
This house may have been intended for his own use or may have been the residence of his natural (illegitimate) children and their mother.
Honours 1776 accommodation into Leopoldina Publications Chemische Versuche über die alkalischen Salze.
As well as the publishing of his works, he had enjoyed a distinguished career as a lecturer in chemistry.
He then worked for Duke Frederik III of Holsten-Gottorp and then King Christian IV who made him his physician.
Lownes also received an allowance for travel and lodging in the Prince's service, of £5 annually, paid by Adam Newton.
Career He served as director and controller of the public schools in Philadelphia from 1860 to 1869.
Parkinson erroneously suggested that the tremors in these patients were due to lesions in the cervical spinal cord.
In 1753 he proved the chemical element bismuth to be distinct from lead, becoming the official discoverer of the element.
Fox, after practicing in Falmouth for some years as an apothecary, "acquired by marriage and his profession a small independence" and decided to try his fortune in London as a physician.
Graham served his apprenticeship in Scotland, from which country he hailed, and was admitted as a "foreign brother" of the Society of Apothecaries on 14 September 1698.
He became the royal apothecary to King Louis XIV, but moved to London to avoid persecution as a Protestant Huguenot.
References External links 'Scent bottle and account of the Prince's Apothecary', National Galleries of Scotland Lowne's bill transcribed in the HMC Calendar of Laing Manuscripts at Edinburgh University
The new bridge, situated next to the Museum of Science, is still referred to as Craigie's Bridge by many.
In April 1660, he became a freeman of Leicester and was elected Member of Parliament for Leicester in the Convention Parliament.
Spreul absented, and was with several other persons denounced and intercommuned, though nothing was laid to their charge but mere nonconformity.
In 1723 his ‘Prælectiones Pharmaceuticæ,’ lectures which had been delivered at his own house, were published with a preface by Dr.
Family He married, 2 September 1784, Esther, daughter of John Barron of Woolacre House, near Deptford, and by this lady, who died 16 January 1834, he left six sons including Barron Field and Frederick Field, and two daughters.
Despite his financial worries with the Queen, his new medical and professional positions and other remunerative civic posts, restored his personal fortune.
Association with Isaac Newton In 1654, William provided boarding to Isaac Newton as he would be attending the King's School with Edward and Arthur Storer.
These facts are proved by his will, dated 19 June 1654, and proved 20 June 1659, and by his funeral certificate in the College of Arms, both of which documents give his age as ninety-four at the time of his death.
A bystander called Gilbert Tonckes joined in and criticised hospitality in Scotland, where it was thought there were few inns offering hospitality on the English model.
The academy consisting of fifteen members would meet twice a week, Tuesdays for mathematics and Saturdays for physics.
Postgate suggested that a system of public analysts be set up charged with monitoring samples of food and drugs, supported by magisterial powers to levy fines on fraudsters.
From 1718 to 1720 he was Garde des marchands-apothicaires in Paris, then later served as inspecteur de pharmacie at the Hôtel-Dieu.
After acting for many years as apothecary to Bethlehem Hospital, London, and obtaining a practical knowledge of nervous diseases, Haslam was dismissed by the governors in 1816 after the publication of the Report of the Select Committee on Madhouses.
While the election was still pending, the death of Alderman Nathaniel Pearson in May 1749 caused a second vacancy in the representation, and Lucas and La Touche became partly reconciled in opposing Cooke and the second aldermanic candidate, Charles Burton.
Career He obtained his "Freedom" from the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries in 1715 having served his seven years' apprenticeship with Thomas Mayleigh.
Miller jailed Zachariah Gillam for customs violations and he also tried to jail George Durant, the leader of the anti-proprietary faction, which led to the Culpeper's Rebellion against him in Albemarle.
David Jackson (1747 – September 17, 1801) was an American apothecary and physician from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
He had married Mary Horwood (1819–1889) during his period in Driffield, who was an educated woman who had hoped to be a writer.
In 1815 his efforts helped obtainthe act of parliament which enforced an examination into the education and professional attainments of candidates for practising as an apothecary in England and Wales.
Sophia James (1798 – London, 10 Dec 1875) who died unmarried Charles James (London, 25 Jan 1799 – London, 12 May 1874 married Windsor 12 Aug 1828, Anne Mary Guion (London, 4 Nov 1798 – London, 12 Mar 1876), daughter of Capt.
He was a founding member of the American Antiquarian Society, and helped establish the Boston Library Society, and the Massachusetts Historical Society.
Sophie (1734–82), the daughter of Louis XV, was interested in scientific objects and had Cornette organize a scientific cabinet for her.
He claimed that oils had a hidden acid which is released while forming soap when reacting with alkali, noting that soap could dissolve minute amounts of silver.
He recorded many English folk-names for butterflies, also coining some himself, and wrote some of the first butterfly books that used English names in addition to Latin.
He examined reversible reactions, following the work of Baumé, and noted that potassium sulphate could be broken by hydrochloric acid.
The candlemaker John Clavie and his business partners were censured for exporting tallow in March 1569.
John Morgan, director-general and chief surgeon of the army hospital, to become one of several Apothecaries General in 1777, responsible for the northern district.
He was supposed to become Master of the Grocers' Company a few months before the time when he was appointed, and asked to be excused from taking office so he could fulfill his duties.
En route to the continent he took a course of anatomy in London from a fellow Scot Dr Robert Erskine of Alva, before further studies at the University of Leyden.
William Pryce (baptised 1735–1790) was a British medical man, known as an antiquary, a promoter of the Cornish language and a writer on mining in Cornwall.
Life He was the son of Joseph Fox the elder, and his wife Elizabeth Hingston; and the brother of Edward Long Fox.
Although Erculiani caught the eye of the Inquisition on numerous occasions, she managed to still be able to publish her writings by deciding to publish in Poland instead of Italy.
The town of Grantham was captured by Royalists on 23 March 1643 and on 11 April he was indicted for high treason.
John Spreull, merchant, headed a country-wide drive to collect money to pay said ransoms." Later in life John Spreul was known for trade in pearls, especially Scottish pearls.
He settled in England and was naturalised as a British subject by Act of Parliament introduced in 1783 (23 Geo.
Haslam was distinguished in private practice by his clinical sensitivity, while his scientific publications and contributions to periodicals gave him a solid professional reputation.
From 1789 to 1801 he served as a trustee of the University of the State of Pennsylvania, continuing through its merger into the University of Pennsylvania.
After the death of the king in 1610, the plans to expand the royal cabinet of curiosities were abandoned.
Legacy The Thomas Henry mixer company was launched in Berlin in 2010, taking its name and inspiration from Thomas Henry.
He served in the American Revolution and worked as a shoemaker before, in 1787, moving to Chambersburg, Pennsylvania and taking up work as an apothecary.
Works Haslam wrote: Observations on Insanity, with Practical Remarks on the Disease and an Account of the Morbid Appearances on Dissection, 1798.
He remained an apothecary for about twenty years, when he acted on his diploma, and practised only as a physician, finally retiring in 1812.
William Sole made his will shortly before his death on 15 January 1802 and left his estate to his siblings living in Cambridgeshire.
Life and work Linck was born in Leipzig where his father, Danzig-born Heinrich Linck (1638–1717), ran the family pharmacy known as "Goldenen Löwen"/"The Golden Lion".
Gideon Delaune, Robert Johnstone, and the Lombard Street goldsmith William Terry were executors of the goldsmith George Heriot, who made a bequest to found a school in Edinburgh now known as George Heriot's School.
Heinrich Emanuel Merck (15 September 1794 – 14 February 1855) was an apothecary whose descendants are the founders of Merck and Company and Merck KGaA.
It was announced in the newspapers that an answer, "published by authority," entitled The Usage of holding Parliaments and of preparing Bills of Supply in Ireland, stated from Record, would shortly appear.
After a solid education in classical letters and a period of apprenticeship, Lambert joined the apothecaries' and surgeon's guild overseeing standards and education at the Collegium Medicum.
In 1749 he started a five-year apprenticeship as an apothecary, initially with Friedrich John in Wangerin, where he served for a year as an assistant.
The common sort of people, he says, were averse to inoculation, and "disputed about the lawfulness of propagating diseases"—the very ground on which smallpox inoculation (variolation) was made illegal in 1840.
Yorke brought the matter before the House of Commons as a breach of privilege (19 February 1810), and Jones was ordered to attend the house.
645-656 Mémoire sur l'action de l'acide phosphorique sur les huiles; et sur la combinaison de cet acde avec l'esprit-de-vin, Académie royale des sciences, 1782, p.
In 1819 he was appointed teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium, later adding the titles Medizinalrat and Professor.
Botanisches Findbuch Between about 1810 and 1829 Ziz compiled a 170‑page handwritten "botanical notebook" (Findbuch) covering the wild plants of Rheinhessen, the Rheingau and the Lower Nahe.
He collaborated with Frederik Ruysch on the first volume of Jan Commelijn's "Horti Medici Amstelodamensis Rariorum" which appeared in 1697 and dealt mainly with plants from the East and West Indies.
In this paper, which was an extension of an earlier memoir on the same subject written in 1744, Rouelle pointed out that the number of known salts had increased significantly during the 17th and early 18th centuries.
John Aubrey took an interest in the horoscope for Thomas Hobbes on which Bernard collaborated with John Gadbury.
Aida Vila Dilmé (born Joan Vila Dilmé, 26 September 1965), known as The Caretaker of Olot and The Angel of Death, is a Spanish serial killer and nursing assistant.
In 1860, only a few years after his wife's death, Kelley surrendered his two youngest children, eight-year-old Delia Josephine and six-year-old Honora, to the Boston Female Asylum, an orphanage for indigent female children; he never saw them again.
The five were accused of having prior knowledge of the "Cazzaniga protocol" and intentionally hampering investigations by not reporting the suspicious deaths to the authorities.
This eventually led to the arrest of Cazzaniga and his lover Laura Taroni, with the latter being held for the murders of her husband, mother and father-in-law, who died between June and October 2013.
In November, Letter was found guilty of 12 counts of murder, 15 counts of manslaughter and 1 count of killing on demand.
One month after leaving Saint Barnabas, Cullen took a job in the coronary care unit at Warren Hospital in Phillipsburg, New Jersey.
After initially confessing but later recanting his statements, he pleaded guilty to two of the murders in exchange for a 25-to-life sentence and no further charges in the other murders.
Three nurses were at the centre of the investigation and an apparent attempt to poison nurses' food.
Trial and sentence In June 2016, she was convicted and sentenced for four murders and attempted murder, according to section 237 of the Danish Penal Code.
Eugène," Petiot pretended to have a means of getting people wanted by the Germans or the Vichy government to safety outside France.
In the mid-seventies, she served as geriatrics manager within a Belgian public hospital in Wetteren.
Elliott said he grew up near Harvey's victims in Kentucky and claimed that he had wanted to give their families closure.
His crimes include the murders of at least 22 people, as well as attempted murder, document forgery, and embezzlement.
At the victim impact statement portion of the trial, the daughter of victim Thelma Metcalf told Saenz, "You are nothing more than a psychopathic serial killer.
After several other syringes used by Saenz tested positive for bleach, she was fired the following day.
Despite these confessions and Feltner being questioned by police, no charges were brought due to a lack of evidence.
She admitted to having killed four patients by injecting them with lethal doses of morphine, potassium or other drugs, but denied being responsible for the other three deaths.
Crimes In Mexico City, she lived in an apartment building located on Salamanca Street, Colonia Roma.
See also Beverley Allitt, another nurse dubbed "The Angel of Death" who was responsible for killing patients.
She had twin daughters with him but didn't want to take care of them, and suggested to her husband that they give them up for adoption.
Ahmad Ahmadi (Persian: احمد احمدی; 1885 – October 1944, known as Pezeshk Ahmadi meaning Physician Ahmadi) was an Iranian nurse.
Another example is Harold Shipman, an English family doctor, who made it appear that his victims died of natural causes (disease).
Forever and Five Days presents evidence that Wood planned the first murder after she found Graham with another woman.
Victims Jose Alfaro Salbi Asatryan – Victim's family accepted a $60,000 settlement from the hospital.
In January 1957, Hannam obtained further statements from Nurse Stronach and Nurse Randal, later prosecution witnesses in the Morrell case, which were more specific and more damaging to Adams.
According to the criminal code of the canton of Geneva, the death penalty could be imposed for these crimes.
Jones was sentenced in the Sawyer murder case on January 16, 2020, to life in prison with no parole eligibility for 20 years.
According to one of Saenz's co-workers, Candace Lackey, Saenz had expressed dislike for a number of patients, all of whom either died or coded.
These allegations eventually reached the police, who were afraid of letting such a dangerous criminal run loose, and on March 19, 1920, Gerzsány was rearrested and transported to the prison in Márianosztra to finish her life sentence, where she died due to old age.
The Besançon poisonings was a French legal case resulting in the conviction of French anesthesiologist Frédéric Péchier to a life sentence for intentionally poisoning 30 patients and killing 12.
This will revoked a previous will he had made on 7 January 1892, naming Miss Laura Sabatini of Berkhamsted, who he had become engaged to marry on 23 December 1891, as his executor and heir.
In popular culture In 2003, a film Skin Hunters (Łowcy skór) was made of the case starring Piotr Adamczyk.
While Reid survived the ordeal thanks to another nurse who came to his aid, he would die two months later from pneumonia.
You're the monster that no one sees coming." In July 2021, Mays was transferred to the low-security Federal Correctional Institution, Aliceville in Alabama.
Upon further searching, they uncovered numerous ointments, powders, poisons, tweezers, pliers and all kinds of instruments.
The last three murders took place within the span of five days between 12 and 17 October: Sabina Masllorens i Sala on the 12th, Montserrat Guillamet Bartolich on the 16th and Paquita Gironès i Quintana on the 17th.
Prosecutors stated that there were approximately twenty suspicious deaths while Mays worked at the hospital, but charges were brought only for the cases that were believed to have sufficient evidence.
Vickie Dawn Carson Jackson (née Carson; born February 13, 1966) is an American serial killer who killed at least 10 patients at the Nocona General Hospital in Nocona, Texas, between 2000 and 2001, using the muscle paralytic drug mivacurium.
She and her second husband had a third daughter, who was placed in state care after her father was convicted for involvement in the murders.
Shortly after her release on bail, Malèvre tried unsuccessfully to commit suicide by overdosing on drugs.
According to her testimony, Joyner wanted attention, as she claimed that a few days before his arrest, he had contacted her, claiming that he would soon become famous and be written about in the media.
Boelsen stated in this context that "she [Hansen] has used her professional insight in a deeply perverted way, which was driven by her histrionic personality disorder".
On the evening of 17 October, and according to Vila's confessions, she had been drinking wine and Coca-Cola all day, and upon hearing Gironès i Quintana coughing, she decided to check upon her.
Early life The daughter of Michael and Bonita Pressdee, she was born on August 28, 1982 and is the oldest of two children.
Seven murders known, if not judicially proved, do not after all, perhaps, complete Catherine Wilson's evil career.
Mays was convicted on one count of assault with intent to commit murder in connection with the assault on Posey.
Ludivine Chambet (born 10 May 1983) is a French serial killer and unlicensed nursing assistant, who murdered people in a retirement home near Chambéry.
There was enough evidence for Immigration and Naturalization Service agents to arrest Swango in June 1997, on a layover at Chicago O'Hare International Airport on his way to Saudi Arabia.
See also Ann Arbor Hospital Murders — another inconclusive case in which nurses were accused of apparently motiveless homicides.
She was charged with four counts of murder, eleven counts of attempted murder, and eleven counts of causing grievous bodily harm.
In 2008, the Justice Ministry in Austria announced that it would release Wagner and Leidolf from prison due to good behaviour.
After a fake suicide attempt, she was ordered into psychiatric treatment by Bridgewater State College officials.
A neonatal nurse, Fikáčková claimed to have killed at least ten newborns between 1957 and 1960, and was executed by hanging in 1961.
These allegations were corroborated by the family members of some victims, who claimed that they had witnesses them arguing between one another, and that one nurse had yelled at their relative while they were visiting him.
Examination of work logs and other nurses' subjective impression that a colleague had inappropriate reactions to the deaths led to the arrest and the charging with murder of a nurse, who was released on bail.
Several of the families sued the owners of Alpine Manor for hiring "dangerous and unbalanced employees".
He was charged with 25 counts of homicide but later retracted his confession and denied all charges for the rest of his five-month trial.
for $1,000 that she borrowed from him, but after his death, the document was either discarded or simply "disappeared".
Welch II, asserted that Gilbert used these emergency situations to gain the attention of then-boyfriend Perrault, a VA police officer – hospital rules required that hospital police be present at any medical emergency.
General: List of serial killers in the United States List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers References External links Hoose, David (May 14, 2001).
Killers who occupy the role of a professional career are sometimes referred to as "angels of death" or angels of mercy.
A commission of inquiry listed eight of the baby deaths as murder, with another 13 as highly suspicious.
When Graham left her anyway after the series of alleged killings, Wood was willing to put herself in legal jeopardy by disclosing to police to exact her revenge.
He was also found guilty of eight offences of unlawfully administering or causing to be taken by another person any poison or destructive or noxious thing with intent to injure, aggrieve or annoy, or attempt to do so, after deliberately altering prescriptions.
A day later, the administrator of the Clyatt Memorial Center, William Powell, called the police and informed them that a former employee of his had supposedly confessed to killing several patients at the places he worked at, which included Moriarty.
He served his sentence at Indiana State Prison in Michigan City, where he died of heart failure on September 24, 2017.
Crimes Pressdee intentionally administered lethal doses of insulin to patients across five nursing homes in Pennsylvania.
Second trial Wilson was tried on 25 September 1862 before Mr Justice Byles, again defended by Montagu Williams.
Holmes was convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of Benjamin Pitezel, his accomplice in several of his cons.
While an autopsy did not reveal significantly elevated levels of insulin in Mrs Van Der Gunst's body, Bombeek confessed Van Der Gunst's murder.
Investigators criticized the hospital for meeting them with "a wall of silence" as they attempted to look into a suspicious 1988 death.
During the trial, Wood plea-bargained her way to a reduced sentence, claiming that it was Graham who planned and carried out the killings while she served as a lookout or distracted supervisors.
The leading Defence counsel Sir Frederick Geoffrey Lawrence, QC, had been briefed by the Medical Defence Union with the additional task of obtaining a ruling on whether medical treatments that might shorten the life of a terminally ill patient were legal.
Psychological testing also revealed Graham could be easily manipulated, suffered from borderline personality disorder and lacked the sophistication to plan the series of killings, let alone adequately defend herself in her trial.
The hospital is known for treating predominantly elderly patients with slight ailments, and was considered among the nation's 100 best facilities despite its modest nature.
Sister Gertrude is the head nurse/nun in a general hospital, whose increasingly psychotic behavior endangers the staff and patients around her." Death Bombeek died aged 86 in 2019 at a care centre in Sint-Jozef, Wetteren, near Ghent.
In February 2008, Zelenka was convicted of killing seven patients and attempting to kill 10 others, and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Foul play was not suspected; in 1895, it was determined that DeBrueil's life had been insured, and that Holmes had profited from his death.
When questioned, Mors readily and calmly admitted to killing eight of the seventeen patients who had recently died.
No doctor or medical staff member had prescribed her this drug, and she had no condition that required it to be issued.
Perrault testified against her, saying that she confessed at least one murder to him by phone while she was hospitalized in a psychiatric ward.
She was arrested and imprisoned for fraud and theft in 1915 for stealing valuables and posing as injured men to receive funds.
Crucially, the woman was a former nurse herself, and was able to credibly describe in full what had happened and how Geen had been attending to her when she inexplicably fell ill.
A photograph exists of the sixth, who allegedly had a gestational age of 30 weeks, and the physical remains were obtained of the seventh.
She stated that she was fed up with elderly patients, that she wanted to change jobs, and after the murder of Joan Canal Julià on 19 September 2010, she forced a co-worker to enter the man's room to watch over his body.
Eight months later on November 3, 1967, in Farmington Township, Oakland County, Michigan his part-time secretary Grace Neil died as well.
At the long-term care part of the hospital, a total of 27 patients were poisoned to death, with at least 11 confirmed victims.
She discovered in the process that she enjoyed playing God and holding the power of life and death in her hands.
After leaving Liberty, Cullen was employed at the Easton Hospital in Northampton County, Pennsylvania from November 1998 to March 1999.
Louay Omar Mohammed al-Taei is an Iraqi serial killer and medical doctor accused of murdering wounded policemen, soldiers and officials in Kirkuk while pretending to treat them.
The documentary was made by David Altrogge and won Best Short Film at the 2013 Justice Film Festival.
However, as Lowell Cauffiel documents in his nonfiction book, friends, coworkers, family members and others who knew Graham and Wood told an entirely different story than the one Wood spun as the key witness in Graham's trial.
Prosecutors said Gilbert threatened the life of at least one person verbally and physically in July 1996.
No records exist of their experiences during their time in the asylum, but reportedly, Delia became a prostitute while their older sister Nellie (who was not committed to the orphanage) was committed to an insane asylum.
Born on May 25, 1962, in Philadelphia, he was considered portly and physically weak as a teenager, but otherwise had no problems with communication and was not ostracized by his peers.
In view of the opinion Hannam later expressed, that detectives must sometimes ignore the law, his methods are open to question.
Konrad concludes that Jones has a grandiose belief of self and a complete lack of empathy, never expressing genuine remorse for her actions, pointing to distinctive traits of malignant narcissism and antisocial personality disorder.
73-year-old Ernest Koch (also Ernst Kohler), who died on May 6, 1933, was believed to be her first victim.
However, this statement is contradicted by records showing that he and his wife owned at least seventeen properties across four states, including a million dollar house in Brigantine, New Jersey.
After a review of the staff schedule, Chambet was revealed to have been present with the victims sometime before their deaths.
At the same time, the Public Health and Welfare Committee of the state Senate, chaired by Pat Vance, conducted hearings on the Pennsylvania State Health Department's failure to put a stop to Gosnell's activities.
The medical examiner could not conclusively confirm that the insulin with which Mays injected him had been the direct cause of death.
It was later revealed that she administered a fatal dose of medication to her husband Massimo, causing his death in the process.
However, the psychiatrists believe that the impassive air of Ludivine Chambet did not reveal a murderous nature in this woman, but, to the contrary, the fragility and psychic immaturity of her mind".
Evidence of colchicine poisoning was given by toxicologist Alfred Swaine Taylor, the defence being that the poison could not be reliably detected after so long.
But when medical examination failed to reveal physical evidence of homicide, not entirely unusual in a smothering case, the county medical examiner nevertheless ruled the deaths homicides, basing it on the interviews Wood had given to the police.
Gallery Remarks Some portraits of Yuriko Miyamoto are displayed as that of Miyuki Ishikawa wrongly at multiple websites.
In October 2010 he was sentenced to 15+1⁄2 years in prison for performing unnecessary operations on patients in order to claim payment for them from the Italian state.
There were also many problems and mysterious deaths in his hospital, so his lawyers insisted that he was accused as their substitute.
The television series American Horror Story tells a highly fictionalized version of their story in its sixth season, Roanoke.
Letter confessed to some of the killings but insisted that he had acted out of sympathy and a desire to end the suffering of sick patients.
The owner of Atlantic Women's Services, Leroy Brinkley, also owned Delta Clinic of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and facilitated the hiring of staff from there for Gosnell's operation in Philadelphia.
While staying with relatives Max and Anna Doeschel in Cincinnati, Ohio, Hahn met fellow German immigrant Philip Hahn; they married in 1930.
In the commission of these murders, Vila had forced her victims to drink bleach, or injected them with acid or other corrosive substances directly into the mouth.
Victims Davis was convicted of killing John Lafferty, Ronald Clark, Christopher Greenaway, and Joseph Kalina.
In the second instance (19 October 2018), the sentence was reduced to 15 years of prison for homicide beyond intent.
A thinly disguised account of her misdeeds was filmed as the Italian nunsploitation film Suor Omicidi/Killer Nun.
Agüero lived with her mother and two sisters in the outskirts of Río Ceballos at the time of her arrest.
On 28 May 1993, she was found guilty on each charge and sentenced to 13 concurrent terms of life imprisonment, which she is serving at Rampton Secure Hospital in Nottinghamshire.
The names of his victims are Mangala Jedhe, Salma Shaikh, Jagabai Pol, Surekha Chikane, Vanita Gaikwad and Nathmal Bhandari.
The AMA temporarily lost track of Swango, who managed to find a place in the psychiatric residency program at the Stony Brook University School of Medicine in New York.
Once she had killed Mrs Van Der Gunst, Bombeek had used her money and jewelry to finance her expensive expeditions to Ghent.
A death row unit for female inmates in North Carolina was subsequently established at the North Carolina Correctional Institution for Women.
The funeral home added the cost of the bribes it paid to the killers to the bills that the families of the deceased paid for their funerals.
He was also suspected of four attempted murders; a 1-year-old girl on 2 February 2000, an 11-year-old girl on 31 October 2000, a four-year-old boy on 13 November 2000 and a 45-year-old man on 24 November 2000.
She was a gambling addict, and it is believed that she would deliberately date rich elderly men and poison them before gambling away the money which had been left to her in their fabricated wills.
As a result, the venue for the upcoming trial was moved to San Angelo, and that new jury would be selected.
More seriously than this, the three nuns disclosed that Bombeek had murdered Maria van der Gunst (87), an elderly woman who suffered from diabetes and was killed through an insulin overdose which induced a severe hypoglycemia attack.
The only defendant to be acquitted was Giuseppe di Luca, who was initially charged with failure to report suspicious circumstances regarding the hospitalization of Angelo Lauria.
The evaluating professionals determined that Agüero has a "self-centered personality", and that she seeks "recognition, power, and admiration", plus "lack of empathy and affection, with expressions of satisfaction from close contact with another person's suffering".
Murders Hahn allegedly began poisoning and robbing elderly men in Cincinnati's German community to support her gambling habit.
Despite Norris recording that her condition was improving, he supposedly found her "totally unresponsive" just before 6 a.m.
Judge Myron Duhart told Elliott, "No matter how bad a person is, that does not give you the right to be the judge, jury, and executioner." Prosecutors claimed that Elliott had targeted Harvey out of jealousy since he was receiving different meals at the prison because of his religion.
Gironès i Quintana began to convulse and expel the liquid, and despite being rushed to the emergency room, she died from her injuries.
The court considered that the murderous trait of the other base motives was fulfilment and considered that the nurse became obsessed with power while murdering the patients.
It was reported that some families of Allitt's victims had previously mistakenly believed that her minimum tariff had been set at 40 years.
Others died from conditions that they had not had when they were admitted or took a sharp downturn although they had otherwise been healthy.
In the view of Harper's Weekly, "From the age of fourteen to that of forty-three her career was one of undeviating yet complex vice [...] She was as foul in life as bloody in hand, and she seems not to have spared the poison draught even to the partners of her adultery and sensuality.
We only saw first-trimester procedures." She added that, "Unfortunately, some women don't know where to turn.
Crimes Early robberies In 1997, Petrov began robbing his patients by visiting their homes unannounced and usually in the morning when relatives would be at work.
Becker was sentenced on 29 June 2007 by the Landgericht Berlin for murder in five out of eight cases, and given life imprisonment.
He provided the details of Docherty's murder and confessed to all sixteen deaths; formal charges were made against Burke and his wife for three murders.
Allitt's story was depicted in episodes of the true crime documentaries Crimes That Shook Great Britain, Deadly Women, Born To Kill?, Evil Up Close, Britain's Most Evil Killers, and Nurses Who Kill.
The verdict proved unsatisfying for both the prosecutors and the attorneys, both of whom are currently appealing the sentence to the Tokyo High Court.
The President of the Court was Eugène Colladon (1805–1880), the public prosecutor was William Turrettini (1810–1876).
Toxicological tests revealed the presence of drugs such as neuroleptics and antidepressants, which were not part of the treatment.
He was caught in 1999 when a hospital porter saw Guimarães fill a syringe with potassium chloride and inject a comatose patient who immediately died.
In November 2004, Cullen pleaded guilty in an Allentown court to killing six patients and trying to kill three others.
Sedation used to mute sounds of pain; Gosnell specified pre-set amounts of drugs for non-physician staff to use on patients, but without reference to individual needs, and without records or monitoring of condition.
As a result, as many as 30 recently deceased patients were exhumed and examined for traces of these powerful paralyzing agents.
The chief prosecutor at his trial, Olaf Jakhelln described Nesset as "an ambitious man, who wanted complete control over life and death [of his victims]." Death Nesset died at a nursing home on 2 December 2025, at the age of 89.
The hearing concluded on 24 January when, after a five-minute deliberation, Adams was committed for trial on the Morrell charge.
The victims were victims were as follows: The first of the two accused to go to the trial would be Laura Taroni, as he opted for an abbreviated trial.
Despite the lack of physical evidence, the jury ultimately was swayed by the testimony of Graham's new girlfriend, who revealed that Graham had confessed to five killings.
The report stated that the perpetrator had access to the restricted unit of the neonatal unit, where most of the attacks occurred.
After Shera left, Adams visited a colleague at the Princess Alice Hospital in Eastbourne and asked about the treatment for barbiturate poisoning.
After Swanenburg's first two daughters died at a young age, she married Johannes van der Linden on 13 May 1868.
The teaching of anatomy—crucial in the study of surgery—required a sufficient supply of cadavers, the demand for which increased as the science developed.
His mother later claimed that the sole reason he confessed was that his life could end quickly, as Feltner's AIDS had been getting progressively worse despite treatment with Aztreonam.
After Vila's arrest, she was ordered to undertake a psychiatric evaluation, which determined that she suffered from severe depression.
The chair of the five-person disciplinary panel that heard Wettlaufer's case said it was "the most egregious and disgraceful conduct this panel has ever considered".
While only four people were convicted, almost every casualty worker was involved in selling information and it is claimed that many more were killing patients (either directly or by slowing down the response/not doing due diligence).
He soon found work at the Clyatt Memorial Center, where he was again hired as a supervisor for the nurse's aides.
While there, she was regarded very highly by co-workers, who considered him an affectionate and attentive person.
He was educated as a registered nurse before being hired in 1977 as a head nurse at a larger nursing home in Orkdal Municipality, Sør-Trøndelag.
The record of surviving infants and a similar incident at Yodobashi San'in (maternity home), exposed a month after Kotobuki San'in.
On June 23, 1902, in the Barnstable County Courthouse, she was found not guilty by reason of insanity and committed for life in the Taunton Insane Hospital.
These deaths were brought to the attention of the authorities at the behest of physician Clelia Leto and vice-primary physician Radu Iliescu, who had recently started noticing strange and even threatening behavior from their senior colleague, Leonardo Cazzaniga.
Cullen rose to the rank of petty officer second class as part of the team that operated the vessel's Poseidon missiles.
A number of other patients are also believed by police to have been poisoned in this way, though most did not suffer fatal consequences.
During the interview, she readily admitted to infusing the bags of at least 20 patients with diamitol.
As a nurse in hospital Havlíčkův Brod, 100 kilometres (62 mi) southeast of Prague, he murdered seven patients by lethal injection, and attempted to kill 10 others between May and December, 2006.
As it was feared that this might have affected other recent deaths at the hospital, which amounted to an unusually high amount of 48 since July, staff contacted Kanagawa Prefectural Police for assistance.
Alpine Manor has since gone out of business, but the building now houses a nursing home called "Sanctuary at Saint Mary's".
Some of the more famous were Mirza Mohammad Farrokhi Yazdi, Abdolhossein Teymourtash, Sardar As'ad and his brother Khānbābā Khān As'ad, Taghi Arani, and Ayatollah Mirza Mohammad Najafi Khorasani (Ayatollah Aghazadeh).
Although the operation was outwardly a success, her colleagues noticed that strange behaviour had started shortly after she had recovered from her surgery.
Swango claimed she suffered heart failure; he had killed her by giving her a potassium injection that stopped her heart.
His song "Velma" from his Wildflowers album gives a personal account of the murders and investigation.
Public Health and Welfare Section (PHW) at GHQ/SCAP and Tokyo-Kanagawa Military Government District (TKMGD) also dispatched some officers to the site.
Malignant hero: A pattern wherein the subject endangers the victim's life in some way and then proceeds to "save" them.
On 9 April 2014, Brega Massone, was tried for 4 murders and 34 battery cases in a different trial, and was convicted to life sentence.
He was convicted of multiple murders of Jews after the discovery of the remains of 23 people in the basement of his home in Paris during World War II.
The killings were carried out in Toppan's capacity as a nurse, targeting patients and their family members.
The much more recent death of Hullett, who died aged 50 without suffering from any somatic illness and whose body had not been cremated (and contained twice the fatal dose of barbiturates) would have made a much more convincing case.
See also Ayumi Kuboki, another nurse who killed in the same region, serving a life sentence Angel of mercy List of serial killers by country == References ==
She was prosecuted for poisoning 13 elderly people between September 2012 and November 2013, resulting in the deaths of 10 victims.
The Medico Legal Centre in Sheffield performed a post-mortem examination, and an inquest was opened.
On arrival in Dumfries the news of Hare's presence spread and a large crowd gathered at the hostelry where he was due to stay the night.
She faced accusations of showing up to work drunk, and at one point was found passed out in the facility's basement during the night shift.
In the midst of the investigation, Feltner called anonymously again and claimed he had attempted to kill another patient, but his claims were found to be contradictory and he was dismissed as a crank.
However, she was suspected of murdering more than thirty of that facility's elderly residents during a two-year span, between 1976 and 1978.
An account of her case relating it to those of other nurses convicted of killing patients also describes the questions raised by Richard D.
Jeanneret was accused of having murdered six people by poison and poisoned three other people from the end of October 1867 to mid-January 1868 on 23 November 1868.
Security footage was also captured of Davis in the patients' rooms just before complications started.
He was sentenced to 21 years in prison, the maximum term then available under Norwegian law, to be followed by ten years of preventative detention.
Four months later, Kinney died by suicide and arsenic was found in her body at the time of her death.
He obtained work as a respiratory therapist employed by the Glendale Adventist Medical Center, working the night shift when there were fewer staff on duty.
According to police, Louay administered anti-coagulants to pro-Coalition forces brought into the hospital for treatment, to excaberate their bleeding and causing a number of deaths.
A little over two months later, when Hare was concerned that a lodger with a fever would deter others from staying in the house, he and Burke murdered her and sold the body to Knox.
Murders and investigation In the spring of 2008, DaVita's Lufkin clinic had an unusual spike in patients falling seriously ill during treatment.
Walsh is an American urologist, researcher and writer, best known for developing "the anatomic approach to radical prostatectomy", involving nerve-sparing techniques which reduced the likelihood of impotence and urinary incontinence.
Lucey was editor-in-chief of the American Academy of Pediatrics' journal Pediatrics from 1974 until 2008.
Berne (April 22, 1918 – October 4, 2001) was an American heart specialist and a medical educator whose textbooks were used by generations of physicians.
Harwood supervises graduate students at the University of Auckland, as well as training senior medical students in Māori health.
As more information became available, the AMPCo board had apparently rejected Leeder's advice (on behalf of the MJA's editorial staff) and not considered public concerns about Elsevier's business practices.
Stowell was engaged as writer and editor in scientific work, contributing over 100 scientific papers to leading magazines and periodicals.
He played a major role in a campaign to control a typhus epidemic in Naples, Italy during the 1940s, for which he received the Typhus Commission Medal from the United States government.
Awards and honors Lester King received in 1964 the Boerhaave Medal from Leiden University and in 1977 the William H.
fired Lundberg from this position after publishing a controversial article on how college students define oral sex.
From 1979 to 2002, he served as the dean of the Notre Dame College of Science, overseeing advancements in research and education in the sciences.
As part of this work, he co-developed the MS BioScreen, a data integration tool designed to support individualized monitoring and decision-making in MS care.
In 2022 while CEO of Wake Forest Baptist, Freischlag elected to fire the director of the Comprehensive Cancer Center without cause the day after award of a Cancer Center Support Grant in his name.
He retired from the University of California, San Francisco in 2003, after which he became active in a campaign to eradicate measles.
He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for his contributions to medicine and public health in 1999.
In Germany, fact-checking activity has included articles at ZDF, the Austrian independent fact-checkers Mimikama, dpa, SWR3 and the German non-profit correctiv.org.
from Washington University School of Medicine, and in 1940 he worked under Allan Kenyon at the University of Chicago.
Recent publications have described both strengths and potential limitations of the application of genomic technology and the concept of "Precision Medicine" to prevention and treatment of common disease.
His manuscript titled "Functional imaging of neuroendocrine tumors with combined PET/CT using 68Ga‐DOTATATE (DOTA‐D Phe1,Tyr3‐octreotate) and 18F‐FDG" published in 2008 has been cited more than 300 times alone.
He held the same position at Tufts University, became a member of the faculty, and served as chief of Inpatient Psychiatry Unit for 16 years.
Personal life Kamerow was educated at Harvard College, the University of Rochester School of Medicine, and the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.
He previously was Professor of Psychiatry and Genetics and Developmental Biology at the University of Connecticut.
On his graduation from Harvard, in 1872, his thesis on "Anaesthetics" gained him the Boylston Prize.
Life and education Eva graduated from the Psychology Department at McMaster University with a Doctor of Philosophy in 2001.
In 1999, he began doctoral studies researching chromosome breakage syndrome, fanconi anemia, gene mutations, and acute myeloid leukemia.
Controversies Leung's move to the government in 2008 was controversial as HKU retained his professorship, and he held Canadian citizenship at the time.
Leeder has served on the University of Sydney Senate for several terms, had two double terms as national president of the Public Health Association, and one triennium as chair of the Health Advisory Committee of the NHMRC.
He went on to serve as surgeon to the Royal Eye Hospital from 1931 to 1966, dean of the Royal Eye Hospital's Medical School from 1934 to 1938, and research professor at the Royal Eye Hospital and the Royal College of Surgeons from 1943 to 1966.
"Enhanced postoperative surveillance versus standard of care to reduce mortality among adult surgical patients in Africa (ASOS-2): a cluster-randomised controlled trial".
He is also a Fellow of the Stroke Council of the American Heart Association and the American Physical Therapy Association.
He later served in the Royal Air Force during the latter part of World War I and in the Royal Army Medical Corps throughout World War II, retiring as a colonel.
After graduating from medical school and completing a residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, Majerus conducted research at the National Heart Institute before becoming a faculty member at the Washington University School of Medicine.
Soon after his arrival in Chicago, there was an epidemic of malaria, and he found on analyzing the drinking water that it was polluted by sewage.
She was the second vice-rector for academics from 1993 to 1996, when she became the vice-rector for academics.
Brody was chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and Dean for Social and Behavioral Studies at the University of Maryland.
As part of a popular TEDx talk, Christakis spoke regarding the newborn brain and media exposure on children.
His finding that pathogens were present in expiratory droplets, the eponymous Flügge droplets, laid the foundations for the concept of droplet transmission as a route for the spread of respiratory infectious diseases.
While there, Epstein worked to understand the nature of Werner's syndrome, a genetic disease that causes premature aging.
In 1870, Worthington resigned to accept a gubernatorial appointment as general agent and secretary of the newly established Pennsylvania State Board of Public Charities.
Editorial roles Castellino has served as editor-in-chief of Current Drug Targets (1998–2024) and as an editorial board member of Journal of Biological Chemistry, Biotechnology and Applied Biochemistry, and Frontiers of Structural Biology.
In 1892, McCowen became chief of staff of the Woman's Hospital in Davenport, and served on the adjunct staff of Mercy Hospital from 1893 to 1894.
In 1950, they initiated a study of the impact of cigarette tar condensate from tobacco smoke on the skin of mice.
GR and Peters, JF: The fragile X site in somatic cell hybrids: An approach for molecular cloning of fragile sites.
From 1978 to 1979, Spandidos was an assistant professor at the Hellenic Anticancer Institute in Athens, Greece.
McFarland was a member of the Illinois State Medical Society; Morgan County Medical Society, Brainard District Medical Society, the Capital Medical Society, and the American Medical Society.
She graduated with the Class of 1884 from the Keokuk College of Physicians and Surgeons as an allopathic doctor.
"Clegg, Hugh Anthony (1900–1983), journal editor", in Oxford Dictionary of National Biography Online, (subscription required), accessed 4 May 2014.
The Dark Side of Radiology: Multispecialty After-Hours Imaging, by JB Kruskal, Christine Menias, 2015.
Awards and honours Grimley Evans was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci) in 1998 and was knighted in the 1997 Birthday Honours.
Brody was President of the World Federation for Mental Health from 1981 to 1983, and Secretary General from 1983 to 1999.
She returned to Würzburg as a consultant endocrinologist briefly in 2001, before moving to the University of Birmingham in England in 2002 with another fellowship from the German Research Council.
He has been the chief editor of four academic journals and is an elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, and American Physiological Society.
In 2013, Katz co-authored a study with Gabrielle Pagé which found that children who experienced extreme and unpleasant pain post-surgery were more likely to develop moderate to severe pain within six months.
Upon his retirement, a banquet was held in his honor, and the speakers included William James Mayo and Harvey Cushing.
Despite the mass of fact and observation with which he had to grapple, he made these commentaries illuminating and entertaining.
Contributions to surgery Muguti contributed to the establishment of Zimbabwe's training pathway in plastic and reconstructive surgery.
He is recipient of a MERIT award from the NIH, an American Cancer Society Faculty Research Award, and the two highest honors in the field of glycobiology, the Karl Meyer Award of the Society for Glycobiology (2005) and the International Glycoconjugate Organization (IGO) Award (2007).
Lynn Eleanor DeLisi (née Moskowitz) is an American psychiatrist known for her research on schizophrenia.
Chan School of Public Health where he is also the chair of the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences.
Farrar's contributions to the field of psychiatry were recognized through honorary doctorates from McGill University and the University of Toronto, the Medal of Service of the Order of Canada from the Governor General of Canada, and the Distinguished Service Award of the Thomas W.
"Surrogate in vitro activation of innate immunity synergizes with interleukin-7 to unleash rapid antigen-driven outgrowth of CD4+ and CD8+ human peripheral blood T-cells naturally recognizing MUC1, HER2/neu and other tumor-associated antigens".
Spencer ultimately followed Williams to Harley Street, and Williams frequently published works by Spencer.
Carnell Professor of Medicine in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University, known for his research on heart failure.
Early life and education Lustberg was born in Iran but moved to Maryland with her family at the age of 10.
Career Christakis is the George Adkins Professor at the University of Washington, Seattle, WA in the Department of Pediatrics.
Karim moved to Canada in 1997 and was hired at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, in July 2000.
He then worked at the National Institutes of Health at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and Gerontology Research Center from 1970 to 1974.
During the 2002–2004 SARS outbreak, she worked with Postdoctoral fellow Ted Cohen to develop a mathematical model that proved that a number of multidrug-resistant strains of tuberculosis can easily reproduce and spread.
Unabomber In June 1993, Epstein received a mail bomb sent by Ted Kaczynski, known at the time as the Unabomber.
He became assistant Superintendent in 1878 but left a few months later to become the superintendent of the newly opened Eastern Michigan Asylum in Pontiac where he remained for 11 years.
Leung is an ex-officio member of the Medical and Health Services subsector of the Election Committee of Hong Kong for the 2021–2026 term.
During her training, she served as chief resident at the Hospital of Saint Raphael before accepting a fellowship in the Harvard Medical School Fellowship Program and earning her Master's in Public Health from the Harvard T.H.
Early life and education Zhong was born on 20 October 1936 at the Central Hospital in Nanjing，Because the hospital is located south of Zhongshan in Nanjing, his parents named it "Nanshan" according to the location of his birthplace, though his family was from Fujian province.
He was from 1911 to 1915 an assistant editor at The Lancet under the editorship of Sir Samuel Squire Sprigge.
In 2021, Stone officially stepped up as editor in chief of the American Journal of Infection Control following the retirement of Elaine Larson.
He and anesthesiologist Robert Dunning Dripps showed that the method of manual artificial respiration used at that time was inefficient, which eventually led to its replacement by mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.
He specialized in general surgery in 2009, and received PhD in Medicine and Molecular Oncology at the University of Porto Portugal.
A Practical and Current Approach for Managing Incidental Findings, by S Bhalla, J Kruskal, Christine Menias, 2017.
She has advocated for people to consider gut microbes as a "human microbial organ." Selected publications Gut microbiota: married to our gut microbiota Nature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology.
He links these fields of research to make clear policy recommendations, including his recommendation of significantly reducing hospital locations and the number of hospital beds in Germany, while still retaining the clinical staffing levels, which would significantly improve quality of care.
He is the inaugural holder of the therapeutic cognitive neuroscience endowed professorship and a professor of neurology with a joint appointment in cognitive science at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
In 2008, Lawton was promoted to associate professor of surgery and named to the "Best Doctors In America" list.
Aggrawal proposed a new classification of necrophilia, and is considered the leading authority on necrophilia.
Career Grimley Evans worked with Donald Acheson before joining the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine as a lecturer.
Publications and editorships During 1993–1995, Faria was the editor of the Journal of the Medical Association of Georgia, taking that state medical journal to national prominence and controversy, which resulted in pressure on him to resign.
From 1966 until 1970 he was Professor of Metabolic Medicine at the Welsh National School of Medicine in Cardiff, and then Professor of Medicine until 1979.
Army, where, as a German-speaker, he was assigned to a psychological warfare unit to monitor German newscasts.
He was one of the first allied medical professionals to reach the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, following its liberation in April 1945.
Selected works Remarks on the influence of mental cultivation and mental excitement upon health (2d ed., Boston, 1833) Observations on the Influence of Religion upon the Health and Physical Welfare of Mankind.
Research and activism Poland is known for researching the immunogenetics of responses to certain vaccines, including smallpox vaccines.
He blogs at simonchapman6.com In 1997 Chapman won the World Health Organization's World No Tobacco Day Medal; in 1999, the National Heart Foundation of Australia's gold medal; in 2006 the Thoracic Society of Australia & New Zealand President's Award.
He is the editor-in-chief of the journals Current Cardiovascular Risk Reports and the Journal of the American Society of Hypertension.
He also obtained a Diplomate of National Board degree in radiation oncology from the National Board of Examinations in 1998.
He is also a Fellow of the International Society for Pharmacoepidemiology, the past president of the Society for Epidemiologic Research, and an honorary fellow of the American College of Epidemiology.
While at Dalhousie, he studied speech perception in infants before accepting a position at the Montreal General Hospital's Pain Center as a research assistant.
When Daroff was ten years old he left public school and attended the Riverside Military Academy in Gainesville, Georgia.
Her other roles include mentorship as a Rosenman Fellow, mentor for the UCSF/Berkeley Master in Translational Medicine Program, membership on the Science Board of the FDA, and service as chief editor of a Nature journal, Frontiers in Nephrology.
He published over 300 scientific papers and the book Robotic Cardiac Surgery (Springer 2014, ISBN 978-94-007-7659-3), written in English.
From 1992 to 2016, Pertseva headed the department of family therapy and endocrinology which later reorganized into the department of internal medicine.
In 2023, he and Casadevall published "Thinking About Science: Good Science, Bad Science, and How to Make It Better" (ASM/Wiley), a collection of essays.
He is a BPS Chartered Psychologist and a Senior Investigator at the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR).
Research interests The research group led by Varki has made many contributions over the last few decades towards understanding the biological roles of the sugar chains or "glycans" found on all vertebrate cell surfaces and glycoproteins.
Education Ray has a bachelor's degree in microbiology from the University of Manchester and a PhD from Imperial College London where she studied Shigella flexneri.
He worked with Koch on studies of tuberculosis and went to Rhodesia with Koch in 1903 to study rinderpest.
Upon his return he went to Strathpeffer Spa in Ross-shire, where he recovered his health, practised medicine, and gained knowledge of balneology.
His recent work was focused on histone deacetylases (HDACs) and chemicals that interfere with HDAC enzymatic activities (HDAC inhibitors or HDIs).
In 2016, the Society of Behavioral Medicine presented Palmero with an Award for Outstanding Achievements in the Field of Child and Family Health.
A related trial using ocrelizumab, a humanized anti-CD20 antibody, reported similar findings in relapsing-remitting MS.
From 1959 to 1966 he was Reader in Experimental Medicine at Guy's Hospital, taking a year out to be visiting professor at Indiana University.
Simmons supported the creation of AMA specialty journals, including the Archives of Dermatology and Syphilology (now JAMA Dermatology) and the American Journal of Diseases of Children (now JAMA Pediatrics).
While there, she started Nature Genetics in 1992, Nature Structural Biology in 1994, and Nature Medicine in 1995.
He has been president of the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology, the Contact Lens Association of Ophthalmologists, and the International Society of Refractive Keratoplasty and has served two terms on the Advisory Council of the National Eye Institute.
From 1979 to 1989, Spandidos worked at the Beatson Institute for Cancer Research, where he studied the Ras oncogene.
His postgraduate training was interrupted by military service; Brody became a captain in the Army Medical Corps in 1946, and served as a consultant in the Nuremberg trials.
Jamshed Bomanji is a full professor, clinical lead, and head of the Institute of Nuclear medicine department at the University College Hospital (UCLH) NHS foundation trust based in London, UK.
Günter Ollenschläger (born 3 March 1951 in Bonn) is a German physician, medical editor, and á former professor of internal medicine and clinical decision making at the University of Cologne, Faculty of Medicine.
At the World's Congress on Geology, she read a paper on “Crinoids,” illustrated with specimens from the Davenport Academy of Sciences, which address attracted much attention and a copy of it was requested by the British Museum, London, and Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.
He is married to Bonnie Lavie, a former sports teacher, with whom he has four children, three of whom were in medical school as of June 2015.
I think it’s disgraceful." He coined the term "medical–industrial complex." He deplored the increasing treatment of health care in the US as a "market commodity" distributed according to a patient's ability to pay, not medical need.
Early life and education Akhtar obtained a First Class honours degree in Pharmacy from the Leicester School of Pharmacy and his PhD degree from the University of Bath.
Personal life On July 24, 1874, Turner began keeping a diary, a daily record of transpiring events of interest through most of the rest of her life, and she induced her son and daughter to begin keeping a daily journal.
Some of them are in the areas including, not limited to, Neuroendocrine Tumours, Tissue Characterization, Molecular radiotherapy in Children, and Brain Disorder.
From 2007 to 2017, he was the editor-in-chief of Infection and Immunity, and he was the deputy editor of Clinical Infectious Diseases from 2016 to 2021.
Lundberg's article coincided with President Clinton's impeachment trial during which the question of whether oral sex constitutes “sexual relations” was an issue.
Sampath Parthasarathy is a former Associate Dean of Research and current Professor and Florida Hospital Chair in Cardiovascular Science in the College of Medicine at the University of Central Florida.
Knopf, 2005) 60 years studying heart-disease risk (Nature Reviews Drug Discovery, 2008) References External links Faculty page Daniel Levy publications indexed by Google Scholar
Robert Fortescue Fox (1858–1940) was a British physician, surgeon, and one of the founders of physical medicine and rehabilitation.
Research Fang's research interests include studying the antimicrobial activity of reactive nitrogen and oxygen species against Salmonella enterica and Staphylococcus aureus.
A Biographical Sketch of Amariah Brigham, M.D., late superintendent of the New York State Lunatic Asylum, Utica, N.Y.
The family immigrated to Palestine in 1930 where Naum Sadé-Sadowsky became one of the pioneers of otolaryngology in the country.
Kenney was a Tuskegee Airman killed in a plane crash near Tuskegee Army Air Field during a "routine training flight." Kenney's wife Frieda Kenney was the first African-American woman to graduate from Boston University.
Work Rothman is known for his work on, and teaching about, epidemiologic research methodology, as well as multiple specific epidemiologic subjects, including the teratogenic effects of vitamin A, the health effects of mobile phone use, and possible environmental causes of cancer.
He has also spoken at numerous Federalist Society–sponsored events, webinars and conferences of the Consortium on Law and Values at the University of Minnesota, and to the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
These works led to polymer discovery, targeted drug delivery to viral reservoirs, and reduction of residual virus in lymphoid organs.
References External links Stephen Leeder at the Sydney Medical School Stephen Leeder at The Conversation
In 1922, he completed his bachelor of science degree at Rutgers, graduated, and entered the Graduate School of Harvard University, where he completed his doctor of science degree in 1926.
In 2002, Talley returned to the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota to become the Co-Director of the Center for Enteric Neurosciences Translational and Epidemiological Research Program.
Throughout his career, Warren has been involved with the American Society of Human Genetics in various capacities, becoming the President of the Society in 2006.
Verl.-Anst., Kempten (Allg.) 1953 Wie steht es um den deutschen Volkskörper?, Lipsius & Tischer, Kiel 1931 Untersuchungen von Milch und Milchprodukten der Breisgau-Milchzentrale Freiburg auf Tuberkel-Bakterien mit negativem Ergebnis : Ein Beitr.
His stance was described: "Although he believes that managed care is here to stay, the current 'marketplace' state of health care is not viable.
He was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment, but was released in October 1913, pardoned by the president and reinstated in his profession.
Neufeld remained on the Institute staff as an "honorary member" (Ehrenmitglied) and continued to publish.
At the end of the war he took up a residency in Internal Medicine at Mount Sinai with the focus on cardiology.
The work was undertaken at the request of the American Medico-Psychological Association by a committee of six asylum superintendents with Hurd as Editor in Chief.
Shephard's book Objective Monitoring of Physical Activity, and his papers have been cited in more than 40 different journals.
Noseworthy was one of 10 prominent hospital CEOs to author an article in Health Affairs about physician burnout.
He played an important role in the development of one of the most advanced military nutrition and metabolism medical research units of its time, the U.S.
Personal life In 1932 he married Kira von Engelhardt, Baroness von Smolensk, daughter of a Russian émigré, Arthur Engelhardt, Baron von Smolensk.
Emami has sat on various editorial boards for dentistry journals, including the Journal of Dental Research, Journal of the Canadian Dental Association, and Trials.
He was a fellow of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia and served as president from 1845 to 1855.
On her return to the United Kingdom, Legido-Quigley started a doctoral degree at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine under the supervision of Martin McKee.
Research Lao is known for researching acupuncture and other forms of traditional Chinese medicine, such as Chinese herbal medicine.
Warren is the former Editor-in-Chief of the American Journal of Human Genetics and Former President of the American Society of Human Genetics.
New England Journal of Medicine tenure Angell joined the editorial staff of The New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) in 1979.
He shows in all its horror how the way we distribute health care like a market commodity instead of a social good has produced the most expensive, inequitable, and wasteful health system in the world." Criticism of the pharmaceutical industry Angell is a critic of the pharmaceutical industry.
Between 1970 and 1995, Albert additionally held visiting appointments in hospitals across the United States.
Recognition In 2017, Munafò received the Presidents' Award for Distinguished Contributions to Psychological Knowledge, an award given annually by the British Psychological Society.
He was awarded the CVCD (Committee of Vice-Chancellors and Directors, Sri Lanka) Most Outstanding Senior Researcher in Health Sciences Award in 2016, which is a lifetime award for excellence in research.
For example, during his tenure as the president of the University of Hawaii, the internationally famed East-West Center was established in 1960 and was funded by the U.S.
In December 2017, Public Health England accused him of presenting factual errors during a Federal Government Enquiry His full reply to these claims was published in Hansard (submission 313.1 Selected books Chapman, Simon (2022).
Education and academic career Kassirer received his Doctor of Medicine degree (M.D.) from the University of Buffalo in 1957, and trained in nephrology at New England Medical Center as a senior resident from 1961 to 1962.
From 2015 until 2016 Günter Ollenschläger was editor-in-chief of the medical encyclopedia DEXIMED, the German version of the Norwegian e-book NEL.
Jennie McCowen (June 15, 1845 – July 28, 1924) was an American physician, writer, and medical journal editor.
Consistent with his views, he held inquests into all sudden deaths, including deaths in police custody.
While in Miami, he began to study the trajectories of normal and abnormal eye movements with Louis Dell'Osso and other experts in systems control.
He specialized in the field of neonatology, and introduced several therapies to mainstream use in the United States, including phototherapy for neonatal jaundice, transcutaneous oxygen monitoring, and pulmonary surfactant use.
See also American philosophy List of American philosophers Philosophy of medicine References External links Faculty Page at Rice University Archived 2018-02-23 at the Wayback Machine CV at Rice University Archived 2012-03-20 at the Wayback Machine The Journal of Medicine and Philosophy
John Brodhead Beck (18 September 1794 Schenectady, New York – 9 April 1851 Rhinebeck, New York) was a New York medical doctor who was an authority on miscarriage, abortion, infant physiology, and associated forensic issues.
Career at the New England Journal of Medicine Kassirer was first named editor-in-chief of the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) in 1991.
He is also the co-editor-in-chief of the Journal of Psychiatric Research, along with Florian Holsboer.
Personal life One June 10, 1896, McFarland married Vincent Carroll Cromwell, in Jacksonville, Illinois.
She graduated summa cum laude from Hamilton College in 1983, where she double majored in writing and biology.
In 1881 Flügge became the first chair of hygiene at the University of Göttingen, and afterwards was a professor at the Universities of Breslau and Berlin, where he succeeded Max Rubner (1854–1932) at the Department of Hygiene.
He became a Professor and Director of Educational Research and Scholarship in the UBC Faculty of Medicine in 2010, and is Associate Director and Scientist in the Centre for Health Education Scholarship (CHES).
In 2019, he received the Distinguished Scientist Award-Basic Domain from the American College of Cardiology.
Malani became increasingly more interested in journalism throughout her four years of high school and became the editor of the high school paper.
He is the winner of the Lilly Prize (1996), the Pfizer Academic Award (1997), the British Pharmaceutical Conference Science Medal (1998), the Controlled Release Society (USA) Young Investigator Research Achievement Award (2001) and the Kappa Society Science Award (2005).
Since 2008, he has served as a professor in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at the same university.
She called for more clear guidance from the European Union on how to count the number of people who die of coronavirus disease, as not all nations were using the same methodology, making comparisons of the public health response difficult.
Morton’s laboratory was among the first to elucidate a collection of genetic abnormalities associated with this tumor, as chronicled in a series of papers published in the late 1990s.
Motulsky was the first to propose that bone marrow transplantation could be used to cure genetic disorders of the hematopoietic system, which his group was the first to practically demonstrate by using transplantation to cure hereditary spherocytosis in a murine model in 1967.
Much of this work emphasized the brain's critical dependence on the availability of circulating glucose and oxygen, unveiling details of the molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolic pathways in the brain.
"Ben" Kligler is an American academic physician and researcher who has been active in leading integrative medicine initiatives for over 20 years.
He was chairman of the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology at the university's Graduate School of Medicine from 1946 to 1957.
In 2012, the president of Georgetown University named Gostin University Professor (also called Distinguished University Professor; the highest professional honor for a Georgetown faculty member) in honor of his "outstanding record of scholarly accomplishment".
Joseph Wortis (October 2, 1906 – February 22, 1995) was an American psychiatrist, longtime editor of the scientific journal Biological Psychiatry, and a professor at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
Julien Bogousslavsky (born May 1, 1954 in Paris, France) is a Swiss neurologist who has been Chief of Neurology and Neurorehabilitation Services at Clinique Valmont, a hospital in Montreux, Switzerland, since 2006.
Christakis was appointed the editor-in-chief of the leading peer-reviewed journal JAMA Pediatrics in 2018.
In 1981, after Bruce Donald and Janet separated, Donald experienced emotional symptoms and developed anorexia nervosa.
Charlton was editor of the controversial and not-conventionally-peer reviewed journal Medical Hypotheses from 2003 to 2010.
His father was Serge Bogousslavsky, an art thief known for stealing the Jean Antoine Watteau painting L'Indifferent from the Louvre in 1939.
Early life and education Mitchell was born in 1947 and raised in Brownsville, Tennessee during a time of racial segregation in the United States.
Though successful, not eventually unsuccessful, and the LCM incorporated ideas that formed the basis of reforms in the charters of the main licensing bodies, the Apothecaries, the Royal Colleges of Surgeons and Physicians.
He is a professor of epidemiology at the Boston University School of Public Health, as well as a Distinguished Fellow at RTI International, where he is Vice President for Epidemiologic Research at RTI Health Solutions.
He then worked in the RAMC's Army Blood Transfusion Service before he joined the War Office to edit the Army Medical Department Bulletin.
In 1850, Gray worked at the Utica Psychiatric Center in New York and was superintendent from 1854 until his death in 1886.
Kaufman believed that a medication could be found that would interfere with intracellular multiplication of a Herpes virus.
Angell is now doing pretty much the same thing the industry she assails has done, just the converse.
Career During his time as a professor and researcher in the McMaster Medical School, Eva was part of a team that developed an interview format known as the multiple mini-interview.
"Governmental Public Health Powers During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Stay-at-home Orders, Business Closures, and Travel Restrictions".
Societal activities Fukagawa was elected to the American Society for Clinical Investigation in 1996.
Barrett's works is taken from his obituary on the official journal of the Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland (now The Journal of Pathology) published in January 1964.
Boll studied medicine in Bonn, Heidelberg and Berlin, and in 1870 worked at the physiological institute of Emil du Bois-Reymond (1818–1896) in Berlin.
The combtooth blenny Hypsoblennius jenkinsi was named in honour Jenkins by David Starr Jordan and Barton Warren Evermann.
After recovering he went to the University of Heidelberg for a year and returned to graduate the next year.
For most of his career (1894–1931) he was associated with the city hospital in Dresden (Krankenhaus Dresden-Friedrichstadt).
However, he sold the business soon after, and went to take a position in the health department of the Lieutenancy Council in Buda.
He studied medicine at the universities of Leipzig, Heidelberg and Strassburg, receiving his doctorate at the latter institution in 1889.
Jones became a member of the College of Physicians of London in 1845, and was elected as a fellow in 1849.
Due to his Jewish origin, he was expelled from Deutsche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und Künste für die Tschechoslowakische Republik in 1939 and transported to Theresienstadt Ghetto in Terezín in 1943.
In 1899 he relocated to the University of Tübingen as an associate professor, where he remained for the rest of his career.
In 1864 he was the first physician to describe chronic childhood arthritis, a disorder that would later become known as Still's disease (named after English physician George Frederic Still 1868–1941).
The results at which he arrived were recorded partly in separate memoirs, partly in his great textbook on microscopical anatomy, which first saw the light in 1850.
Career From 1967 to 1977rom 1967 Álvarez-Uría was a professor of Histology at the Complutense and Autonomous Universities of Madrid, Alcalá de Henares, Salamanca, and the University College of Toledo.[8] In 1977 he was professor of Cytology at the University of Salamanc.
Osservazioni istologiche intorno alla terminazione delle fibre nervose motive ne' muscoli striati delle torpedini, del topo casalingo e del ratto albino condizionati col doppio cloruro d'oro e cadmio, ibid., IV (1882), pp.
In his landmark The Interpretation of Dreams, Sigmund Freud discusses a passage in Stricker's Studien über das Bewusstsein regarding the expression of affect in dreams (e.g.
In one experiment he put a caged fox near hens to see if they would lay eggs; in another he induced similar stress in female newts.
Publications by Sir William Bowman Todd, Robert Bentley; Bowman, William (1857), The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, Philadelphia: Blanchard and Lea, retrieved 3 August 2008, full download available at Google Book Search.
«El "atlas anatómico" de Crisóstomo Martínez como ejemplo de "Vanitas"», Boletín del Museo e Instituto Camón Aznar, 1994, 56:5-34 VALVERDE, Nuria (Sep 2009).
1876) Untersuchungen über die Ursachen der Anisotropie organisirter Substanzen [Studies on the causes of the anisotropy of organized substances] (Leipzig, 1882) Über den feineren Bau der Skelettheile der Kalkschwämme etc.
To which are Added, a Paper on the Vitreous Humor; and Also a Few Cases of Ophthalmic Disease, London: Longman, Brown, Green, and Longmans, full download available at Google Book Search.
Heidenhain studied the timeline of pancreatic sectretions to the process of digestion in the stomach and intestines.
She performed this research while employed by the federal government of Canada's Department of Agriculture at the Central Experimental Farm in Ottawa, Ontario.
He was married to the chemist and activist Margarete Traube, a daughter of the physician Ludwig Traube.
After receiving his medical doctorate from the University of Munich in 1893, he worked with Ludwig Edinger (1855–1918) at the Senckenberg Pathology Institute in Frankfurt-am-Main.
After high school, he studied medicine at the University of Pavia, where he performed histological and histopathological research under the guidance of Paolo Mantegazza (1831-1910) and the microscopist Eusebio Oehl.
This "super ministry" consisted of State Secretaries of Sport (Attila Czene), Education (Rózsa Hoffmann), Social Affairs (Miklós Soltész), Health (Miklós Szócska) and Culture (Géza Szőcs) during his appointment.
Tivadar Huzella or Theodor Huzella (10 June 1886 – 11 July 1950) was a Hungarian physician, cell biologist, and anatomist.
Before 2007, his grave was marked with a timber gabled cross but it has since been replaced with a stone obelisk.
Career Jenkins graduated from Moores Hill College (now the University of Evansville) in 1869 and served as a teacher, high school principal and superintendent in the public school systems of Indiana, Wisconsin and California, returning to Moores Hill College in 1876 to take up a post as a professor.
Adult life On 14 August 1926, Oscar Tiegs married Ethel Mary Hamilton, a telephonist, at the Presbyterian Church in the Melbourne suburb of Hawthorn.
She worked jointly with scientists at Kentville, Nova Scotia, who provided her with the dehydrated vegetables for further analysis in Ottawa, Ontario.
Early life, education, and tennis Ham's early education came through Brantford Collegiate Institute and Vocational School.
Born into an old untitled noble family of Polish origin, he was the second son of Konstantin Petrovich Kulchitsky (b.
Jorge Cervós-Navarro (vel Jordi Cervós i Navarro; 9 January 1930 – 14 November 2021) was a Spanish pathologist, histologist, and neuroscientist.
As a distinguished histochemist and histophysiologist, Deane published 147 journal articles, was the editor of The Adrenocortical Hormones, and co-founded The Histochemical Society.
As a professor at the University of Würzburg, he developed a leading school of histology and embryology.
Part II: Karl Ludwig versus Rudolph Heidenhain and William Bowman.", Journal of Medical Biography, vol.
From 1831, he studied at the University of Konigsberg, where he was a student of embryologist Karl Ernst Baer, then continued his education at the University of Berlin under Friedrich Schlemm and Johannes Peter Müller.
Hailing from rural Covurlui County, he studied biology in France and Switzerland, where he was attracted by left-wing ideas; his evolutionary biology, informed by the work of Carl Vogt, veered into Marxism and irreligion.
Career Stricker was born in Waag-Neustadtl (Hungarian: Vágújhely, now Nové Mesto nad Váhom, Slovakia).
Santiago Ramón y Cajal Museum, Ayerbe, Huesca, Spain opened in 2013 and is located in Cajal's childhood home, where he lived with his family for ten years.
Alexey Petrovich Bystrow, sometimes spelled Alexey Petrovich Bystrov and Aleksei Petrovich Bystrow, (Russian: Алексе́й Петро́вич Быстро́в; February 1, 1899 – August 29, 1959) was a Soviet paleontologist, anatomist, and histologist.
1827), a naval officer, and his wife, Elizaveta Prokofyevna Pavlova, daughter of a Colonel in Russian Imperial army.
Early life and education Helen Wendler Deane was born in 1917 in Franklin, North Carolina, to Bertha and Julian Deane.
He studied for two years for Part I English in the Tripos, then two years for the Part I prelim in the Moral Sciences Tripos (philosophy) with an Eton minor scholarship in 1939, gaining respective classes of 2:1 and first, and graduating B.A.
Despite lacking a doctorate, Burnett had a significant enough reputation to be listed as a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1848.
From Hungary to New York From an early age de Galantha dreamed of the pursuit of being a physician and to follow in the footsteps of her great-uncle, Professor Hermann Nothnagel, a well-known surgeon of Vienna.
Instead, by 1894, he was a noted contributor to Garabet Ibrăileanu's Evenimentul Literar of Iași, and also wrote for Gherea's own review, Literatură și Știință—which hosted various of his "countryside sketches", including the anti-war, didactic Mi-a cântat cucu-n față ("A Cuckoo Sang to My Face").
Publications Schimper is best known for Pflanzengeographie auf physiologischer Grundlage, published at the University of Jena in 1898 where he aimed to explain the expansion and ecology of plants based on the ecological knowledge of the time.
Ueber den Bau der Cetaceenhaut, 1899 - On the construction of whaleskin Lehrbuch der mikroskopischen Technik, 1907 - Textbook of microscopic technique.
He was more interested in biological research than clinical medicine and while still a student took a scientific journey with Hermann Lebert to Normandy and the Channel Islands, where they collected specimens for the Musée Orfila.
In 1885 he returned to Madrid and opened a private practice, and in 1902 was appointed to the first chair of experimental psychology in Spain.
Biography Disse studied at the University of Erlangen, and after graduation became an assistant to anatomist Heinrich von Waldeyer-Hartz (1836-1921) at Strassburg.
Pathologie der Zähne, mit besonderer Rücksicht auf Anatomie und Physiologie, 1870, translated into English by W.E.
Renaut was born in La Haye-Descartes, Indre-et-Loire, and studied medicine from 1864, first at Tours and then in Paris.
Among his interests was also urology, particularly urine analysis; in 1894, during a medical conference in Rome, he presented his own method of detecting uric acid in urine.
Laguesse postulated that the Islets of Langerhans produced secretions that played a regulatory role in digestion.
Breathnach in the Journal of the History of Neurosciences, 2001; 10: 19-26.; [1] External links International Brain Research Organization (biography in English) Legado Luis Simarro
(with John Morris) Catalogue of the Fossil Organic Remains of Plants in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, 1859, 4to.
Publications Dürck was the author of Atlas und Grundriss der speziellen pathologischen Histologie, later translated and published in English as: "Atlas and epitome of special pathologic histology.
When only sixteen John gave a course of lectures on microscopic subjects, illustrated by original diagrams and by a microscope which he had himself made out of a roasting-jack, a parasol, and a few pieces of brass purchased at a neighbouring marine-store shop.
After receiving his medical degree in 1857 he became an assistant to Karl Reichert at the University of Wrocław.
He invented an original microtome (a "histological guillotine") that allowed him to cut remarkably large yet extremely thin slices of brain tissue.
He was a student at Tübingen, Leipzig, Strassburg and Kiel, where he received his doctorate in 1882.
He named the granules "bioblasts", and explained them as the elementary living units, having metabolic and genetic autonomy, in his 1890 book "Die Elementarorganismen" ("The Elementary Organism").
In 1956 Oscar Tiegs was awarded the Clarke Medal by the Royal Society of New South Wales, although the Australian Academy of Science has him listed, incorrectly, as receiving this award in 1928.
The species in the genus include: Malassezia furfur, Malassezia ovalis, Malassezia pachydermatis, Malassezia sympodialis and Malassezia orbiculare.
References External links Works by Andreas Franz Wilhelm Schimper at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Andreas Franz Wilhelm Schimper at the Internet Archive Books by and about A.F.G.
At the time of his death in 1956, Oscar Tiegs left a full draft of a review on the evolution of arthropoda.
Some of his well-known students were Heinrich Auspitz (1834–1885), Moritz Kaposi (1837–1902) and Salomon Stricker (1834–1898).
He started research into disorders of the nervous system at the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh under Alexander Bruce.
He studied with Ernst Wilhelm von Brücke (1819–1892) in Vienna, and in 1863 became a professor of physiology and histology at the University in Graz.
Biography Schimper was born in Strassburg, (present day Strasbourg, France), into a family of eminent scientists.
Das Banat in topographisch-naturhistorischer Beziehung, mit besonderer Berücksichtigung der Herculesbäder nächst Mehadia und ihrer Umgebungen.
Together with Gabino González-González, Álvarez-Uría wrote a biographical book about Santiago Ramón y Cajal.
The basis for the claim was a 1972 book by antiabortion activist Fred Mecklenburg, which cited a purported Nazi experiment in which women put under traumatic stress did not ovulate.
Achievements Bizzozero was one of the pioneers of histology, and, more generally, the use of the microscope in medical research.
"Arterial measurements in the interpretation of cardiomegaly at necropsy: Cardiac hypertrophy and myocardial infarction".
He studied pharmaceutical chemistry and medicine at the University of Modena, earning his doctorate in 1882.
According to philologist Livia Ciupercă, Bujor made efforts to conceal his true origins, and, for this reason, eventually broke all contact with his relatives.
In 1841 he obtained his doctorate in Vienna, and subsequently practiced medicine in Ischl and Salzburg.
Biography Wacław Mayzel was born on 12 September 1847 to Józef and Rozalia (Minheymer) Mayzel, in Kunów, Ostrowiec County, Poland.
Annica Dahlström (born 1941) is a Swedish physician and Professor Emerita of Histology and Neuroscience at the Department of Medical Chemistry and Cell Biology at University of Gothenburg.
[…] When he spoke at the Faculty Board of Medicine or as secretary of the Degree Committee everyone recognized it as a carefully balanced statement worthy of consideration.
Her research on the suitability of different varieties of fruits and vegetables for freezing, which had been interrupted by the war efforts, was reactivated in 1944.
Life and work Hoyer was born in Inowrocław to pharmacist Ferdynand Hoyer and Helena née Trzcińska who died shortly after his birth.
Eventually he attained the title of "libero docente" (equivalent of privat-docent) in histology and general pathology.
Burnett eventually graduated from the Harvard Medical School in 1849 and went overseas to Europe for four months but was diagnosed with tuberculosis in Paris.
In the field of dentistry, he described residual cells of the epithelial root sheath in the periodontal ligament.
In 1853 he became an associate professor, and in 1872 was appointed professor of histology at the University of Vienna.
Über die bedeutung der in den schalen von manchen acephalen und gasteropoden vorkommenden canäle, 1859 - Beiträge zur Pathologie der Blutgefässe, 1859 - Contributions to the pathology of blood vessels.
From 1964 until 1979 Švob worked at the Institute for Skin and Venereal Diseases where she establish histopathological laboratory.
With Austrian-American gynecologist Walter Schiller (1887–1960), Schiller Duval bodies are named, which are structures found in endodermal sinus tumors.
He went on to be a medical student at Cambridge in 1945 and at Middlesex Hospital in 1946, where he was a house surgeon in 1947.
A student of Louis-Antoine Ranvier, he served as professor of anatomy and histology at the faculty of medicine in Lyons.
In addition to his neurological discoveries, Betz made a foundational contribution to endocrinology.
He then studied the classics at Collège Royal of Lyons and then in 1838 he went to study medicine in Paris.
Kohn's papers covered topics including the pituitary, interstitial cells of testes, and ovaries, all of which relate to endocrinology.
References External links Testimony of Helen Wendler Dean Markham, Hearings, Reports and Prints of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, United States Congress.
He discovered the nature and origin of parathyroid glands and pioneered research on chromaffin cells and sympathetic paraganglia.
The main challenge was to produce sufficiently thin samples, and Sjöstrand's method for producing ultrathin tissue samples was published in Nature in 1943.
Henry Roy Dean, with whom he first came under influence); a Foundress Scholarship in 1931; five prizes during his clinical training in the London Hospital Medical College (where he went as an entrance scholar in Pathology).
Notes References (in Romanian) Petru Bejinariu, "Cercetări ecologice în Bucovina" Archived 2015-05-31 at the Wayback Machine, in ECOS, nr.
His method of staining also led to the discovery of oligodendroglia in 1921, which both he and Penfield are now credited with.
By 1949, MacArthur also summarized her research into a booklet for use by the commercial food industry.
During his tenure in the vice-presidency and presidency of the Royal Academy of Medicine of the Principality of Asturias, the institution created and consolidated the International Hippocrates Prize for Medical Research on Human Nutrition.
See also List of Baltic German scientists Notes References Sources This article contains information based on a translation of an equivalent article at the German Wikipedia.
Frost (1921 – 19 June 2004) was an American orthopedist and surgeon considered to be one of the most important researchers and theorists in the field of bone biology and bone medicine of his time.
His main fields of interest include basic histological descriptions, growth dynamics as recorded in bone growth marks, and adaptation (both histological and microanatomical) of the tetrapod skeleton to a secondarily aquatic lifestyle.
Archiv für Anatomie, Physiologie und wissenschaftliche Medicin: 120–222, 1837 – On the visceral arch of vertebrates in general and its metamorphosis in birds and mammals.
He subsequently worked with Hermann Ludwig Ferdinand von Helmholtz (1821–1894) in Heidelberg, Carl Friedrich Wilhelm Ludwig (1816–1895) and Julius Friedrich Cohnheim (1839–1884) in Leipzig, and with Ernst Wilhelm von Brücke (1819–1892) in Vienna.
After the war When the war ended, both the occupying powers and the families of the dead began trying to learn what had happened to the bodies of those executed.
See also Vienna School of Dermatology References [3] translated biography @ Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie WorldCat Libraries, List of publications [4] biography @ AEIOU Encyclopedia
However, despite welcoming Adolf Hitler's rule as a restoration of national pride, he did not join the Nazi party, one of the few German medical school administrators who did not do so.
From 1890 to 1895 he studied medicine at the universities of Freiburg, Berlin and Kiel, receiving his doctorate at Kiel in 1895 with the dissertation Beitrag zur Lehre vom Ulcus corneae serpens.
"Postnatal development of the harderian gland in the Syrian golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus ): A light and electron microscopic study: HARDERIAN GLAND DEVELOPMENT".
Wedl was the author of numerous books and articles, a few of which have been translated into English.
In 1903, with Alexandru Popovici and Leon Cosmovici, he held a pioneering extracurricular course on parasitology.
The majority of Dorner's botanical specimens were collected within the present-day territory of Hungary, but are now found in herbaria worldwide.
In 1884, he received his doctorate from the University of Tübingen, where he remained until 1886, working as a prosector at the anatomical institute.
She completed her medical degree at the Faculty of Medicine in Plzeň, Charles University, and received her doctoral degree in anatomy, histology and embryology.
Marchi reaction: The failure of a nerve's myelin sheath to blacken when submitted to the processes of osmic acid.
From February 2022 to January 2026, she served as the Rector of Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic, making her the first woman to hold this position.
He was editor of Volume III of the sixth edition of Albert von Kölliker's Handbuch der Gewebelehre des Menschen (1899).
In 1929 Elena de Galantha had an apartment in Manhattan in New York City and managed an upscale costume and clothier business whose clients were the social elite.
In 1863, he published a handbook titled Die Photographie als Hilfsmittel mikroskopischer Forschung (Engl.
Bowman, William (1849), Lectures on the parts concerned in the operations on the eye, and on the structure of the retina: Delivered at the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, June 1847.
Along with American physiologist William Henry Howell (1860–1945), the Howell-Jolly bodies are named; which are 1-2 μm granules seen in erythrocytes (red-blood cells).
The most innovative aspect of his work was an interest in embryology and microscopy, which he applied to the study of "fresh" osteology.
Lenhossék is largely remembered for his research in the field of neuroanatomy, that included important histological studies of the nervous system.
He had become interested in phytogeography and plant ecology, undertaking expeditions to the West Indies and Venezuela in 1882–1883.
1872), daughter of Robert Scott, Bengal Civil Service, by whom he had four children, including the conchologist John Frederick Whitlie Quekett.
Afterwards he was an associate professor of anatomy at the University of Tübingen, and from 1900 was a professor of anatomy at the University of Budapest.
He took a special interest in neurohistology and conducted studies on marine Hirudines, making use of techniques such as the injection of gold chloride to visualize the neural network.
This was an important activity during the war years as many fruits and vegetables had to be dehydrated and shipped to Europe for the war effort.
Hermann Philipp Rudolf Stieve (22 May 1886 – 5 September 1952) was a German physician, anatomist and histologist.
He demonstrated a mastery of silver staining techniques and some of his illustrations contain a level of detail comparable to that which can be obtained using a low-power electronic microscope.
Dimitrie Voinov (June 25, 1867 – July 7, 1951) was a Romanian zoologist, histologist and cytologist.
He also penned treatises on the construction and physiology of striated muscle fibers, and works involving the eye and eyesight that discussed topics such as binocular vision, color in Newton's rings and subjective color.
53–4), mostly contributed to the Microscopical Society's Transactions, and dealing with animal histology.
He was offered a trip to Cameroon but instead took up an amanuensis position at the Karolinska Institute under Gustaf Retzius.
Julius Kollmann (24 February 1834, Holzheim am Forst – 24 June 1918, Basel) was a German anatomist, zoologist and anthropologist.
"[An anatomist] only tries to retrieve results from those incidents that belong to the saddest experiences known in the history of mankind," he said.
With Émile Littré he published a revision of Pierre-Hubert Nysten’s Dictionnaire de médecine, de chirurgie, etc.
(The entire process, both theoretically and practically, of vinegar production; or a complete instruction on how vinegar can be produced from the most diverse substances with the greatest possible advantage, both on a small scale for household use and on an industrial scale.
Sir William Bowman, 1st Baronet (20 July 1816 – 29 March 1892) was an English surgeon, histologist and anatomist.
He was among the first scientists in France to use the microscope in normal and pathological anatomy.
During this period, he was dean of the philosophy and then of the natural sciences faculty, as well as university rector from 1922 to 1923.
As a child, he was transferred many times from one school to another because of behavior that was declared poor, rebellious, and anti-authoritarian.
From May 1861 to September 1862, Betz was sent abroad to study in Germany and Austria, where he attended lectures by prominent European scientists, including Ernst Brücke, Carl Ludwig, Robert Bunsen, Albert von Kölliker, Gustav Kirchhoff and Hermann von Helmholtz.
Mayer made several important contributions particularly concerning the physiology of the heart and vessels, respiration and intestines.
Being a keen botanist, he was provided with his own set of keys to the Cambridge University Botanic Garden.
Pierre-Émile Launois (24 July 1856 – 18 March 1914) was a French physician born in Moiremont, a commune in the department of Marne.
From 1894 to 1927 was an assistant in the anatomical institutes at Greifswald and Berlin, as well as prosector at Giessen and in Bern, Switzerland.
In 1869 he became professeur agrègé to the Paris faculty, and in 1884 a member of the Académie Nationale de Médecine.
de Galantha died at Worcester Memorial Hospital on 5 January 1986 and is buried at Evergreen Cemetery in Leominster, Worcester County, Massachusetts.
In 1866 he was appointed chair of anatomy at the University of Kiel, and several years later relocated to Königsberg (1875) as a professor of anatomy.
Selected written works Contribution à l'histoire du développement histologique des tumeurs épithéliales (1866).
In 1930 he was successor to Aldo Perroncito (1882-1929) as professor of general pathology, a position he kept until his retirement in 1942.
Die Retina der Wirbelthiere: Untersuchungen mit der Golgi-cajal'schen Chromsilbermethode und der ehrlich'schen Methylenblaufärbung (Retina of vertebrates) (in German).
Other books he wrote included Waen and the Willmers and several books on Grantchester, to where he retired in 1969.
In 1947-1948, he received a scholarship to further study electron microscopy at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Department of Biology.
Much of the progress which embryology made during the middle and latter half of the 19th century are associated with his name.
Authored books Über das morphologische Wesen und die Histopathologie der hereditär-systematischen Nervenkrankheiten (Berlin, 1926) Az elmebetegségek és kapcsolatos idegbetegségek kórtana (Pathology of mental diseases and their related nervous disorders.
Zeitschrift für Anatomie und Entwicklungsgeschichte (Zeitschrift für die gesamte Anatomie), Berlin, Verlag von Julius Springer, 1931, Bd.
He was an elected a Fellow of the Royal Entomological Society (President 1931-32) and in May 1930 the Royal Society.
From 1904, his articles promoting physical culture among the peasantry were hosted by Cultura Română, the popular pedagogy magazine, with Bujor serving as president of the Iași Society for Gymnastics, Sport and Music.
Along with Camillo Golgi, he was a major proponent of the reticular theory that the brain's nervous system consisted of processes of contiguous cells fused to create a massive meshed network.
His thesis focused on the production of estrogen in the ovaries, and he attempted to show that this production is dependent on an interplay of two different hormone producing systems.
While Bidder's assistant at Dorpat, he studied structures of the central nervous system, and during his tenure at Königsberg, he had the opportunity to examine the cranium of philosopher Immanuel Kant.
3), Thomas (Springfield, Ill.), 1973, ISBN 0-398-02588-6 Bone modeling and skeletal modeling errors (Orthopaedic lectures Vol.
His Practical Treatise on the Use of the Microscope (1848, 8vo) did much also to promote the study among medical men and amateurs, and among those who came to him for instruction was the prince consort.
He has held the following administrative positions: Director of the University School of Nursing at the University of Oviedo, of which he is Honorary Director.
He took a chair as a lecturer and researcher in anatomy and anthropology at the University of Leipzig.
Reportedly, they convinced Averescu to accept a reform of the 1866 constitution; in the end, Averescu withdrew from the talks, and embarked on a rapprochement with the PNL.
Family On 28 December 1842, he married Harriet, fifth daughter of Thomas Paget of Leicester, by whom he had seven children.
He then studied at the Universities of Liège and Bologna and became a lecturer at the University of Modena from 1912 to 1916.
Despite accepting the Statute of Núria, and, in the academic sphere, that classes could also be given in Catalan language at the university, he did not feel comfortable.
Milena Králíčková (born 4 February 1972) is a Czech physician and university professor, specializing in histology and embryology.
He attended three grades of primary school in his native village from 1877 to 1879, followed by a fourth in Siret, where he learned German.
From 1890 to 1894 he was a medical practitioner in the community of Dedeleben, and afterwards worked as assistant to gynecologist Johann Veit in Berlin.
Biography Oehl studied medicine at the University of Pavia, and following graduation (1850), he continued his education in Vienna under Joseph Hyrtl (1810–1894) and Ernst Wilhelm von Brücke (1819–1892).
Later life and career In 1956 she moved from Zagreb to Ljubljana, where she worked at the oncological hospital.
Throughout his career, he conducted numerous experiments, particularly in the field of reproductive endocrinology.
After the war he headed the department of histology and embryology at the University of Warsaw where he worked until his death.
Intorno al finale distribuimento de' nervi nell'organo elettrico della torpedine (Torpedo Narke, Risso), ibid.., II (1870)., pp.
Among her accomplishments include a new tissue marker detection method and a study on keratin proteins in epithelium.
She also used cytochemical procedures for demonstrating lysosomal enzymes to address stromal differentiation during uterine regression and the detection of follicular atresia.
He studied medicine at the University of Leipzig, where in 1892 he obtained his habilitation for forensic medicine.
The book featured biographies of Ukrainian Hetmans based on the private collection of Vasyl Tarnovsky.
L'Istituto e l'insegnamento straordinario di fisiologia sperimentale in Pavia, Pavia, Bizzoni, 1862.
[…] His family life was a happy one: tea with the Barretts was fun, for he had imparted to his family his unbounded curiosity, which was, in the view of many friends, his most endearing characteristic.
Due to his main job, Roos played mainly in domestic French competitions or in correspondence chess tournaments.
For his work, he was elected to the German Academy of Sciences at Berlin and the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina.
He collected specimens on expeditions with David Starr Jordan and Barton Warren Evermann and he wrote works on the fishes of the United States of America and of Hawaii, as well as on invertebrate nervous systems.
Deane later returned to Harvard where she worked at the Biological Laboratories on visual mechanisms with Alexander Forbes.
The reticular theory predominated until the 1890s when Ramon y Cajal brought forth his neuron doctrine of synaptic junctions, which in essence replaced the reticular theory.
Bielschowsky made important contributions in his research of tuberous sclerosis, amaurotic idiocy, paralysis agitans, Huntington’s chorea and myotonia congenita.
In 1846 he received his medical doctorate with a thesis on the topographical anatomy of the groin region.
References Neurophilosophy.wordpress On discovery of the neuron This article incorporates information based on a translation of an equivalent article at the German Wikipedia.
Psychologist Carl Jung wrote in his 1960 book Synchronicity that there was a "sometimes quite grotesque coincidence between a man's name and his peculiarities".
Other examples Words 17 letters subdermatoglyphic 16 letters uncopyrightables 15 letters 14 letters 13 letters 12 letters There are hundreds of eleven-letter isograms, over one thousand ten-letter isograms and thousands of such nine-letter words.
Gameplay The play goals and game experience of the Internet version resemble the board game version.
See also Wise and Otherwise References External links Entry on the Canadian Intellectual Property Office's Web site BoardGameGeek entry
The genuine Indian name "Dikshit" ("dick shit") has been repeatedly mocked in mass media, often to the offense of people bearing the name.
Werewords is a board game for 4 to 10 players designed by Ted Alspach and published by Bézier Games in 2017.
Spelling and Anagrams (a set incorporating two distinct games, Spelling and Anagrams) was also published in the 1930s.
A word polygon is a word puzzle where the solver is presented with a grid or shape with 5 to 9 letters.
Discussions on these platforms have included debate over how the language should be shared and who should be considered appropriate custodians of its tradition.
He was the subject of several anecdotes and eventually a comprehensive twelve-page biography by Robert Funt.
The ABC logo was omitted altogether when the DVD set was released, with the CBS logo behind Ludden in the original picture being enlarged.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
Historic rhymes are used by linguists to reconstruct pronunciations of old languages, and are used particularly extensively in the reconstruction of Old Chinese, whose writing system does not allude directly to pronunciation.
In In Your Face, 16 columns of letters are stacked, and the player must make words by using the visible letters in the columns.
Most spoonerisms were probably never uttered by William Spooner himself but rather invented by colleagues and students as a pastime.
Then, each following player in sequence (usually clockwise or counterclockwise) must come up with a word beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
When an open syllable (one that ends in a vowel) has [o] or [e] as its vowel, it is changed to [ɔ] and [ɛ], respectively.
The term has its origin in competitive Scrabble, where a blank tile on a player's rack may be used to form any of several possible words in conjunction with the player's other tiles.
Later writers have come to regard the book as "groundbreaking", noting that it was the first book devoted solely to the description and study of wordplay, rather than simply providing a list of puzzles.
(سلام و علیکو ائ یار قدیمی) Bgofto dokhtarak bose' va me de (بگفتو دخترک یگ بوسئ وه مه ده) maga kuri ke bābāyom nadidi?
This variant of the game is hosted on a website called Germëzhimë, a portmanteau of germë (letter) and gumëzhimë (the buzzing of a bee).
A blanagram (portmanteau of blank and anagram) is a word which is an anagram of another but for the substitution of a single letter.
The two longest continuous trivia contests in the world are the Great Midwest Trivia Contest at Lawrence University and the Williams Trivia Contest, which both debuted in the spring of 1966.
Due to the constraints, West allows himself few liberties here and there, as can be witnessed in this example: See also Abecedarium Alphabet song Alphabiography Pangram == References ==
Much of practical sananmuunnos wordplay revolves around obscene double entendre expressed by spoonerism.
The term "Šatrovački" is attested in Serbian literature since as early as the year 1900, as a secret language of gamblers in Aleksinac.
Similarly cacographic anadromes are also characteristic of Victorian back slang, where for example yob stands for boy.
[...] From the perspective of Haféz as the composer of poetry, biluminosity allows two different points of view to shed light upon each other." See also Contronym Esoteric interpretation of the Quran References External links Īhām in Encyclopædia Iranica
Reception and legacy Beyond Language was not as great a success as Language on Vacation but it still attracted favorable reviews.
Since all the other children spoke Pig Latin, we were superior because Tut was hard to speak and even harder to understand.
From the introduction inside the box lid: RSVP is played on both sides of an upright frame by two players.
A joke about the Fuller Brush Company merging with Schick razors to become the "Fuller Schick Company" (i.e.
The poem shows the flexibility of the Chinese language in many ways, including wording, syntax, punctuation, and sentence structures, which gives rise to various explanations.
"Summer" is a song by Scottish DJ Calvin Harris, released on 14 March 2014 as the second single from his fourth studio album, Motion (2014).
If the answerer uses one of the forbidden words, he/she loses, and the two players might change roles and start a new session.
Dante prized the following sonnet she had composed in this fashion: Notes References ^ This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Gumuțeasca has thousands of words and a rich vocabulary that is very different from standard Romanian.
This is due to an application of the term by Arnobius, and was never common either in Latin or English.
See also Californian English Chinook Jargon Dialect Polari Speech community References Sources Rawles, Myrtle R.
The Embossing Company, formerly Halsam Products Company, also produced a yellow-on-black Eye-Rest set.
Around that time, he was reading "The Gold-Bug" by Edgar Allan Poe and noticed a line containing the English letter distribution.
The 1988 Parker Brothers game Scattergories is a reimplementation of Guggenheim, with a 20-sided die being used to generate random letters.
The purpose of verlan is to create a somewhat secret language that only its speakers can understand.
Alias is a Finnish board game, where the objective is to define words so that other players can guess them.
One essay describing a modern revival of Tut on TikTok characterizes the practice as subject to “secrecy and gatekeeping,” and reports that some participants argue it should remain within African-American descendant communities due to a history of cultural appropriation.
"Single-Snaps" are linear combinations of letters that form one word, while "Multi-Snaps" are combinations that form two or more words.
A sobriquet is distinct from a pseudonym in that it is typically a familiar name used in place of a real name without the need for explanation; it may even become more familiar than the original name.
Merriam-Webster's Befudiom is a word game where teams are challenged to guess selected idioms by acting, shouting, drawing, or spelling them out.
Several studies have investigated the use of this memory mnemonic as a form of an imagery-based memory system within the process of learning a second-language.
In combination with a refrain, it forms a limerick song, a traditional humorous drinking song often with obscene verses.
Tobias Hagge, another German musical comedian, notes that there was also a song popular around 1930, about a woman named Veronika, whose ability to make asparagus grow gives rise to a double entendre.
The passage from the official language to Riocontra occurs as mentioned mainly through the inversion of the syllables, but also with the change of the last vowel and truncation and elision in the last vowel of the neologism formed.
The term charade was borrowed into English from French in the second half of the eighteenth century, denoting a "kind of riddle in which each syllable of a word, or a complete word or phrase, is enigmatically described or dramatically represented".
After decades of history and predecessors, it was widely popularized by the 1972–1978 PBS children's show Zoom.
The r move The pronunciation of the letter "r" at the end of an inverted word risks merging with the next word or even not being pronounced, so it is placed between the two syllables once inverted to make the pronunciation more fluid.
"If you are not certain of any fact," Wittgenstein notes, "you cannot be certain of the meaning of your words either" (OC §114).
Augustine's well-known abecedarian psalm against the Donatists is the earliest known example of medieval rhythmical verse.
Jackbox also produced Dictionarium, with the key difference that the words are all made-up instead of picked from an unabridged dictionary.
Chrząszcz was translated into English by Walter Whipple as Cricket (whose Polish equivalent, świerszcz, is also considered difficult to pronounce for non-Polish speakers).
Originally available over Internet Relay Chat, the game has since been developed into a number of variants, as a download, playable through a browser, via Twitter or through Facebook.
Bait Bazi (Urdu: بیت بازی) is a verbal game and a genre of Urdu poetry played by composing verses of Urdu poems.
The members also write SF poems using other short poetry forms, such as waka, senryū, sijo, kanshi, etc.
Italian authorities hoped the filmmakers corrected the location errors in the novel, to limit the amount of explaining they will have to do for confused tourists.
The only known perfect pangrams of the English alphabet use abbreviations or other non-dictionary words, such as "Blowzy night-frumps vex'd Jack Q." or "Mr.
Edwin Fitzpatrick, the fictional Victorian palindromist to whom Bergerson credited many of the book's palindromes, proved to be a popular character among logologists.
National Scrabble Association The National Scrabble Association has published a set of rules for competitive Anagrams play in tournament setting.
Bengali Notable Bengali books of tautogram features include 'Keshta Kabir Kashtagulo', 'Keshta Kabir Conference' and 'Keshta Kabi' written by Iqbal Sardar Nazmul Kabir.
It aired on The Family Channel (now ABC Family) in 1994, replacing the interactive version of Trivial Pursuit.
Obbligato in music traditionally means a passage is "obligatory" but has also been used to mean "optional".
The magazine also covers closely related forms of wordplay, including calculator words and written charades.
When a player has no cards left in their hand, the round ends and the other players each tally the point value of the cards they hold.
Chicktionary was developed by Blockdot, a Dallas, Texas based developer of games and branded entertainment applications.
The individual can develop a mnemonic peg system in order to remember this association by thinking of a duck with a pot on its head.
Metaphysical poetry as a style was prevalent in the time of English playwright William Shakespeare, who admonished pretension with the phrase "Better a witty fool than a foolish wit".
Šatrovački was initially developed by Roma and various marginal subcultures and criminal groups in Yugoslavia, who employed it as a device of secret communication.
In 2017, a taxi driver filmed protesting against changes to taxi licensing in Melbourne, Australia gave his name as "Tsim Booky" to the Channel 9 Today Show; tsimbouki (τσιμπούκι) refers to fellatio in modern Greek.
For example, a crossword requires players to use clues to fill out a grid, with words intersecting at specific letters.
"Pê" dialect This "dialect" is more like Kongarian (a language game spoken with Hungarian) than the other "dialects" of Língua do Pê.
The humor derives from implying that an assumption (which might otherwise be expected to be controversial or at least non-evident) is so obvious as to be part of the lexicon.
For example, if Aesop's chosen letter was "O", then a player acting as a lion may safely say they have eaten a sheep, but will be punished if they have eaten a fox.
An eodermdrome is a form of word play wherein a word (or phrase) is formed from a set of letters (or words) in such a way that it has a non-planar spelling net.
Paper and pencil games In a paper and pencil game, players write their own words, often under specific constraints.
ŋ́gɔ́zɪ́ wṹ lêm "Ngozi died" becomes: ńtgɔ́tzɪ́ twṹ tlêm or ńtʊ́gɔ́tɪ́zɪ́ tṹwṹ tílèm Here we have some RTR and nasal vowels.
Vice News noticed a heavy police presence in the "high-crime" area where police vigorously pursue misdemeanor violations using tactics such as tailing drivers until they make a mistake, or searching a stopped vehicle for violations that may be unrelated to the reason for the police stop.
In this tradition, possessive pronouns are also capitalized if one is quoting God; "My" and "Mine" are capitalized, which should not be done when a human speaks.
Reception Evan Killham of GamesBeat gave the game a score of 85 out of 100, citing many positives but conceding the requirement for the game to be continually connected to the internet a problem.
A person is said to "suffer" from RAS syndrome when they redundantly use one or more of the words that make up an acronym or initialism with the abbreviation itself.
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
The interactive fiction game Ad Verbum, contains a series of rooms which are described and interacted with, in tautograms.
Awards In 2010, Anomia was the winner of the Mensa Select Game of the Year award and the American Specialty Toy Retailing Association Best Toy For Kids award.
A Slib of Lorey (translation: A bit of folklore) by Edna Sanders English to Boontling by Judy Belshe-Toernblom.
This contrasts with rhyming slang from which the rhyming portion has been clipped, which is part of the lexicon.
A section in the rulebook was titled "How to arrange a Lexicon drive" for the organisation and execution of a party or tournament based on Lexicon.
History Reputed to have originated as a Victorian word game, Anagrams has appeared in many versions since then.
Pictoword also won the Gold Winner awrd at Serious Play Conference Awards' "12 Serious Games Designed for Use in Grades K-12 Education" in 2022.
Green letters indicate that the letter is correctly placed, yellow letters indicate that it is in the wrong spot, and grey letters indicate that it is not in the word.
A team has the option before playing or passing on the first topic offered up to three times during the game.
Bush and Al Gore, two candidates for President of the United States, during the first presidential debate for election year 2000.
It has been said that, since the inhabitants of Totoi were good wood artisans who traded with their products, Totoiana could have been created so that other merchants could not understand them.
As a result, the reader is freed from the obsession to find the 'right answer' through speculation and instead can concentrate on enjoying nuances and being awed by how the slightest shift in perception creates a new meaning.
History Kangaroo words were originally popularized as a word game by Ben O'Dell in an article for The American Magazine, volume 151, during the 1950s, later reprinted in Reader's Digest.
However, George Cadar, a member of the Romanian Association of Semiotic Studies, claims to have recorded a similar form of speech far from Alba County, although he did not elaborate on this.
An entry unique among the group is worth 2 points, whereas an entry shared with another player scores 1 point.
Pat Myers of The Washington Post wrote that, despite being a lifelong promoter of The Washington Post, she found herself in "the thrall of the New York Times Spelling Bee game".
Description Acronymble is a game for 3–8 players that challenges players to move their token around a game board by creating acronyms (known as "noodles") from a random sequence of letters.
Taken together, it means "Symbols in the bowl-like depression on the edge of a long steep sea inlet confused an eccentric person".
A trial exhibit from the 2007 "Scooter" Libby trial included the term, in Libby's daily schedule for June 10, 2003, which showed that Libby had a 6:00 pm "Strategery Meeting" scheduled to last 90 minutes.
Words are required to be regular words of the language played by the participants, and not include proper names or trademarks.
The first published reference to it was in 1851, in Henry Mayhew's London Labour and the London Poor.
The poem was originally written by Hu Mingfu (胡明复) and published by linguist Yuen Ren Chao in Volume 11 of The Chinese Students's Monthly in 1916.
ngware becomes rengwa) See also Costermonger (British street vendors from whom back slang originates) Pig Latin References External links Victorian Web Article John Burkardt's list of back slang words at Florida State University
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
Sonia Sanchez's 1968 play The Bronx is Next includes a scene in which a White police officer arrests a Black person for running while Black.
Etymology Pseudonym comes from the Greek ψευδώνυμον pseudṓnymon 'false name', from ψεῦδος pseûdos 'lie, falsehood' and ὄνομα (ónoma) 'name'.
The longest German heterogram is "Heizölrückstoßabdämpfung" (heating oil recoil dampening) which uses 24 of the 30 letters in the German alphabet, as ä, ö, ü, and ß are considered distinct letters from a, o, u, and s in German.
The New York Times Spelling Bee, or simply the Spelling Bee, is a word game distributed in print and electronic format by The New York Times as part of The New York Times Games.
Some famous examples of that include Samuel Clemens, writing as Mark Twain, Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr.
British journalist Christopher Hitchens published an essay in The Nation in 2000 titled "Why Dubya Can't Read", writing: I used to have the job of tutoring a dyslexic child, and I know something about the symptoms.
Story Houry, Sam's Dot Publishing (an anthology of scifaiku) Dwarf Stars: 30 Stellar Short-Short Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Poems from 2004, edited by Deborah P.
Longest examples In the book Language on Vacation: An Olio of Orthographical Oddities, Dmitri Borgmann tries to find the longest such word.
Some common examples are gros ([ɡʁo], "fat") which becomes gravos ([ɡʁavo]); bonjour ([bɔ̃ʒuʁ], "hello"'), which becomes bavonjavour ([bavɔ̃ʒavuʁ]); and pénible ([penibl], "annoying"), becomes pavénaviblave ([pavenaviblav]).
Turn-taking In some editions of the game, such as the Milton Bradley and Selchow & Righter versions, only the player whose turn it is may form words.
They also have a choice between the conventional "WordZap" mode and the "WordHai" mode, which permits players to create 3-letter words from a set of 21 tiles.
For instance, consider a hypothetical news headline: "The White House loses its balance." In this case, "The White House" is used metonymically to represent the U.S.
He also suggests an alternative term, asogram, to avoid confusion with lines of constant value such as contour lines, but uses isogram in the article itself.
In 2008, Parker Brothers released a self-contained version of the game with the dice sealed inside a plastic unit and featuring an integrated timer.
(e.g.: If a contestant guessed all three words in part one and there was 7 seconds left, each word would be worth $110) Naming all three passwords this time added $10 for each second left.
CBS replaced Heart on March 26, 1973, with the youth-oriented The Young and the Restless, causing Password and Jeopardy!
The metre of Mickiewicz's sonnet is the Polish alexandrine (tridecasyllable, in Polish "trzynastozgłoskowiec"): 13(7+6) and its rhymes are feminine: [anu] and [odzi].
The word redrum (i.e., "red rum") is used this way for murder in the Stephen King novel The Shining (1977) and its film adaptation (1980).
Examples The English language has a very large number of single-word anadromes, by some counts more than 900.
One of Harris' trademark gigantic synth hooks doesn't hurt its digestibility, either." Robbie Daw of Idolator viewed the track as "a shameless bid at nabbing an 'Umbrella'/'California Gurls'/'Blurred Lines'-like Song Of The Summer anthem".
In Monty Python's Life of Brian, there is an extensive use of Dog Latin as a tool for creating gag names.
The "father" of the Irish bull is often said to be Sir Boyle Roche, who once asked "Why should we put ourselves out of our way to do anything for posterity, for what has posterity ever done for us?".
Sallows has made an extensive computer search and conjectures that there exist only three pure (i.e., no dummy text) English reflexicons.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
The major system is more complicated to learn than simple rhymes or alphabetic pegs, because it associates numbers 0-9 with a specific letter or sound, then larger numbers can combine to create words out of the sounds.
Some assert that the jargon was created by the women, children, and young men in the hop fields and sheep-shearing sheds as a means of recreation, and that it spread through the community as the children continued using it when they grew up.
Mercer made many palindrome submissions to Notes and Queries but did not always claim authorship even when he had indeed penned the palindromes.
Published by JudyBelshe@aol.com ISBN 978-0-9655530-2-5 External links Boontling: An American Lingo History of Boontling at the Anderson Valley Museum Mendocino Middle School Boontling Dictionary Haddock, Vicki.
Q-Less is a single-player word puzzle game in which the player rolls 12 dice and uses the resulting letters to form connected words in a crossword-style arrangement.
A vocabularyclept poem is a poem which is formed by taking the words of an existing poem and rearranging them into a new work of literature.
Similarly, in the episode "Donnie Fatso", a call comes through for a "Yuri Nator" (urinator) from Fat Tony, which is revealed to be an actual bar patron which was misunderstood as a prank call.
In March 2019, criminologist Scot Wortley released a study that found that the RCMP in suburban Halifax, Nova Scotia performed street checks five times more often on Black people than white people.
The poem can be interpreted as an objection to the romanization of Literary Chinese, demonstrating the author's critique of proposals to replace Chinese characters with Latin letters – a move that could potentially lead to the marginalization or elimination of traditional Chinese script.
Origin Balderdash is based on an earlier game, Fictionary, of essentially similar gameplay, varying in that obscure words are found in an unabridged dictionary instead of the definitions and meanings provided on cards.
See also Wordle Natural language processing Semantics Word2vec References External links Official website
Two teams compete over multiple rounds to reach 60 points by guessing items listed on a Topic Card within a time limit.
Personal names (Mark/mark, Will/will), place-names (China/china, Turkey/turkey), company names (Fiat/fiat), names of publications (Time/time) etc.
[Italics in original] Bullinger gives the following example: one may say to another, “You are like a beast.” This would be simile, tamely stating a fact.
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
Other uses Sarah Palin used the term in a 2010 interview with Bill O'Reilly on his television show, The O'Reilly Factor.
Gameplay Each player is dealt ten cards from a pool of 52, each depicting a letter and a point value.
Some common examples are Pig Latin; the Gibberish family, prevalent in the United States and Sweden; and Verlan, spoken in France.
The game has been used in schools to simulate the spread of gossip and its possible harmful effects.
Variants on the alternade include the rebade (a hybrid of a rebus and an alternade), and the subade.
Coxeter cites Vish in his discussion of definitions in mathematics: Vish illustrates the important principle that any definition of a word must inevitably involve other words, which require further definitions.
A common difficulty with language games is that they are usually passed down orally; while written translations can be made, they are often imperfect, thus spelling can vary widely.
There are other examples of vowelless sentences in Czech and Slovak, such as prd krt skrz drn, zprv zhlt hrst zrn, meaning 'a mole farted through grass, having swallowed a handful of grains'.
In popular culture A variant of Ubbi Dubbi was popularized as the signature speech pattern of the cartoon character Mushmouth from the animated series Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids (1972), voiced by Bill Cosby.
There are four possible cards: The usual play Nonsense Word: The players must add a nonsense word to their noodle.
See also Strč prst skrz krk, Czech and Slovak tongue twister and shibboleth References External links ""Chrząszcz brzmi w trzcinie" - J.
Bush's statements were also notorious for their ability to state the opposite of what he intended, including his remarks on the estate tax: "I'm not sure 80% of people get the death tax.
When users believe that they will be rewarded by acquiring a favorable reputation, they are more likely to behave in accordance with the site's policies.
Greg Barlow, the president of the company, stated that the game was "a favorite" within the staff, adding that it would "make a great addition" to the website's selection of games.
Like his earlier single "Feel So Close" and his later single "My Way", Harris returns as a vocalist on "Summer".
Players take turns forming words on the board or, instead of playing a word, may also choose to swap tiles with the pool of currently unused tiles or pass their turn.
An essential feature is the use of full cardinal number names such as "one", "two", etc., in recording character counts.
The root appears 4 times in Genesis 42:7-8 (Jonathan Sacks, The Koren Shalem Humash with Rashi and Onkelos.
Gameplay The game is played by one player from each of the two teams drawing a card (one between the two of them) and looking at the five words on the card.
If a complete word is formed in this way, the player who called the final letter of it loses the round.
A rerelease by Mill Creek, which acquired the rights to the Fremantle game-show DVD sets following BCI's collapse, corrected this error.
It was not a "true" one-syllable article in that some characters were not homophonic, leading Chao to modify the poem over time, leading to its canonical form where every syllable uses /shi/.
The game also ends if three scoreless moves (i.e., passes or tile exchanges) are played in succession, unless the score is zero-zero.
Historic rhymes One example of a historic rhyme (i.e., one that was a true rhyme but is now an eye rhyme) is the following: The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
Other examples are the YAML language, which stands for "YAML ain't markup language" and PHP language meaning "PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor".
The rules used by experienced players can be more stringent, such as allowing the use of only one poet's verses or of one theme.
An example is trousers and its diphthong, ou, which is replaced with wo in the back slang version reswort.
Hans Reichenbach used a similar sentence ("John where Jack had...") in his 1947 book Elements of Symbolic Logic as an exercise for the reader, to illustrate the different levels of language, namely object language and metalanguage.
Jamieson Cox of Time magazine felt that the song "doesn't have much lyrical meat on its bones, but coming on the heels of one of the most severe winters in recent memory, listeners are likely hungry for anything that suggests a warmer, sunnier season.
References Bibliography Aldofre e Nigiova Di Nobru, "Il Riocontra illutostra", Giulio è in Audi editore, 2017 See also Jargon Verlan Vesre Furbesco Farfallino alphabet
Notable games In 2008, 1,330 children and celebrities set a world record for the game of Telephone involving the most people.
The player who passed then flips the timer, and the other player has one minute to give clues to their team, to try to get them to guess each of the five words on the card, where each word in the giver's clues counts as one of the words bid.
The game was nominated for "Best Educational Game" and "Best Puzzle Game" at The Independent Game Developers' Association Awards 2018.
It concluded not only that Borgmann's etymology may be incorrect, but also that the hill does not even exist.
Therefore, the passage is barely comprehensible when read aloud in modern Mandarin without context, but easier to understand when read in other Sinitic languages, such as Cantonese.
Other recognition A copy of Buyword is held in the "Sid Sackson Portal" collection of the Strong National Museum of Play (object 107.873).
In popular culture A game of Anagrams is played in the Alfred Hitchcock 1941 thriller film Suspicion.
Rules may permit or forbid proper nouns (such as names, places, or brands) or other types of words (such as slang).
Rombauer, Captain Blood Returns Raphael Sabatini, Flush Virginia Woolf, Paradise Lost John Milton, Clans of the Alphane Moon Philip K.
Discerning the various layers of meanings would be a challenge to the reader, who has to focus on and keep turning over the passage in his mind, applying his erudition and imagination to perceive alternative meanings.
Price died in 1990, and three years later, Sloan and Stern sold Price Stern Sloan, including Mad Libs, to the former Putnam Berkley Group, which is now known as Penguin Random House.
The word anadrome comes from Greek anádromos (ἀνάδρομος), "running backward", and can be compared to palíndromos (παλίνδρομος), "running back again" (whence palindrome).
A twin kangaroo is a kangaroo word that contains two joey words (for example: container features both tin and can, magister features both master and mister).
Lewis Corner of Digital Spy rated "Summer" three-and-a-half out of five stars, calling it "a bright and vibrant banger destined to soundtrack the warmer months".
Even though vesre has spread to other countries, and can be heard in Peru, Chile and Ecuador, Spanish speakers outside the Río de la Plata area are usually less inclined to use it.
In the days of the Stuarts it was very popular, and is frequently mentioned in the writings of the time.
Neither Piron, nor Marmontel, nor La Motte disdained this ingenious exercise, and early in the 19th century the fashion was revived.
According to the Financial Times, the phrase "mental losses" seemed to be a malapropism of "missile launches".
Charms include: Word Check - ensure all words are legal prior to declaring Bananas Smart Dump and Smart Peel - place Dumped and Peeled tiles automatically to form a word, if the opportunity exists Mini Dump - only one tile is dumped, as opposed to three.
Eberhard was also actively engaged in opposing the Waldensians and wrote a book entitled Liber Antihaeresis (c.
A few typical examples of such compounds: Avyayībhāva (adverbial) Avyayībhāvas ('indeclinable') are adverbial compounds composed of an indeclinable element (an adverb, etc.) and a noun, together expressing an adverb or another indeclinable (avyaya) element.
Praxiphanes (Greek: Πραξιφάνης) a Peripatetic philosopher, was a native of Mytilene, who lived a long time in Rhodes.
According to Ibn Khallikan, Ibn al-Shajari studied philology and poetry in Baghdad under the tutelage of Abu Mu'ammar ibn Tabataba.
The manual opens with a discussion of the fundamental ideas of metre and the chief rules of prosody, and ends with a detailed analysis of the metres of Horace.
"Evidence for Performances of Republican Comedy in Fourth-century Rome." Classical Quarterly 62.1: 415–422.
It is among the first character dictionaries which examined the evolution of characters in detail, and streamlined the "six category" approach to analyzing Chinese writing.
In his criticism, Amoghavarsha I writes that old Kannada is appropriate in "ancient poems" but is insipid in works of the present time, like an "association with an old woman".
Yudhishthir Mimansak , Sanskrit Vyakaran Shastra Ka Itihas,Part-1, Ramlal Kapoor Trust, Hariyana, Third edition 1973 External links online edition
Career Erman and his school at Berlin had the difficult task of recovering the grammar of the Egyptian language and spent thirty years of special study on it.
According to Wittgenstein, philosophical problems arise when language is forced from its proper home into a metaphysical environment, where all the familiar and necessary landmarks and contextual clues are removed.
He later acknowledged the limitations of this work, affirming that he should have looked beyond the results and should not have considered these results as answers, but as the key to arrive at the answers.
From 1978 to 1997, he worked at the Institute of Slavic and Balkan Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Abū Manṣūr Mauhūb al-Jawālīqī (Arabic: أبو منصور الجواليقي) (April 1074–17 July 1144) was an Arab grammarian born in Baghdād, where he studied philology under Khātib al-Tibrizī (1030 – 1109) and became famous for his handwriting.
During the Almohad reforms, he assisted the Almohad authorities in banning any and all religious books written by non-Zahirites during the reign of Abu Yaqub Yusuf, and oversaw the outright burning of such books under Yusuf's son Abu Yusuf Yaqub al-Mansur.
Bohuslav Havránek (30 January 1893 – 2 March 1978) was a Czech philologist, Bohemist, Slavist and literary historian.
In late October 2018, a memorial containing his name alongside over 6,000 others was erected at Kommunarka.
From 1919 to 1952, he was a Professor of cuneiform research and ancient Oriental history at the Charles University in Prague.
The transmitted texts vary slightly in content, owing to the omissions and emendations of later commentators.
In book I he discusses the eight parts of speech; in II the elementary ideas of grammar and of style; in III poetry, quantity, and meters.
Indeed, translation studies are not only based on language issues, but also on cultural contexts between people.
Scholarship Böhtlingk was one of the most distinguished scholars of the nineteenth century, and his works are of pre-eminent value in the field of Indian and comparative philology.
Since the book is supposedly based on a Vita by Suetonius, it is also often titled Vita Suetonii vulgo Donatiana ["The Life [of Virgil], [actually] by Suetonius, [but] commonly called 'by Donatus'"], or Vita Suetoniana-Donatiana.
They felt that linguistics had to deal with present-day reality and it should concentrate on the relation between language, class, and the proletariat consciousness to create a socialist society.
Non-Hindu texts and traditions on grammar emerged after Patañjali, some of which include the Sanskrit grammar text of Jainendra of Jainism and the Chandra school of Buddhism.
Notable differences Some of the differences between the texts are simply varying spelling conventions: *w and *u̯, for example, are only different symbols to indicate the same sound, a consonantal *u, so that *wóĝhom and *u̯óǵʰom are actually the same reconstruction.
Synopsis Universae Philologiae is an early work on comparative linguistics by Gottfried Hensel (Godofredus Henselius; 1687–1767), a rector in Hirschberg (Jelenia Góra), Lower Silesia.
Rutherford (1881); Lobeck devotes his attention chiefly to the later, Rutherford to the earlier usages noticed by Phrynichus.
According to Katan, culture is a shared model of the world, a hierarchical model of beliefs, values and strategies which can guide action and interaction of people.
Awards and prizes Medal “Veteran of Labour” Honoured Science Worker of the Russian Federation Monographs Notes Bibliography Morozova, E.
Both works bear witness to the emergence of the science of Arabic philology, and to the close intellectual contact between the Abbāsid and Umayyad seats of power at Baghdād and Cordoba, respectively.
English bahuvrihis often describe people using synecdoche: flatfoot, half-wit, highbrow, lowlife, redhead, tenderfoot, long-legs, and white-collar.
ISBN 1-877275-34-4.; (2009) Third Edition, edited with a new introduction by James McGilvray, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-70817-3 Aarsleff, Hans (1982).
Between 2010, and 2013, the documentary resources were collected, and the pedagogical material was designed.
It has been suggested that one other text that survives might be Robert's work from his and Hermann's private collaboration: a translation of Euclid's Elements known as "Adelard II", which is usually attributed to Adelard of Bath and sometimes to Robert of Chester.
On 25 January 1938, he was tried in a closed session of the Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the USSR and pleaded not guilty.
The reliability of the source is important, and legitimate knowledge can only come from the Sabda of reliable sources.
This work of Sadr is written in the traditional form of a commentary, where he gives his own text and then comments on the same.
It describes the language as current in his time, specifically the dialect and register of an elite of model speakers, referred to by Pāṇini himself as śiṣṭa.
Skepticism towards translation of cultures Some anthropologists raise objections to translation of cultures.
La sabiduría árabe antigua reflejada en los proverbios de al-Maydānī: traducción y análisis paremiológico de un corpus seleccionado (PDF) (Doctoral thesis).
Naṣr bn ʿĀṣim al-Laythī or al-Duʾalī (Arabic: نصر بن عاصم اليثي; died 708/709) was an Arabic grammarian from Basra.
Shiksha is the oldest and the first auxiliary discipline to the Vedas, maintained since the Vedic era.
Etymology Nirukta (Sanskrit), states Monier-Williams, means "uttered, pronounced, explained, expressed, defined, loud".
According to Cicero, who expressed a poor opinion of his powers as an orator, Stilo was a follower of the Stoic school.
Among Palaemon's ascribed works is a Song on Weights and Measures (Carmen de Ponderibus et Mensuris) now dated to between the late 4th and early 6th centuries.
Lived during the Abbasid period, a period of flourishing of Arabic grammar, linguistic theory, literary criticism, lexicography, etc.
The Neuägyptische Grammatik (1880) dealt with texts written in the vulgar dialect of the New Kingdom (Dyns.
The sixty-six stories cover a wide range of themes, subjects, and styles, including gothic horror, picaresque adventures, and comic, erotic, and moral tales.
Much social, geographical and historical information has been thus inferred from a close reading of Pāṇini's grammar.
In 986, Emperor Taizong of Song ordered Xu Xuan and other editors to publish an authoritative edition of the dictionary, which became the Shuowen Jiezi Xichuan (説文解字繫傳).
The Laghushabdendushekhara (Sanskrit: लघुशब्देन्दुशेखर; IAST: Laghuśabdenduśekhara) is a commentary by 18th century grammarian Nāgeśa Bhaṭṭa on the Siddhāntakaumudī of Bhaṭṭoji Dīkṣita.
External links Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum: complete texts and full bibliography Text of Aphthonius in the Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum.
Bibliography Together with Sima Xiangru, Yang was one of the most famous and illustrious figures of the entire Han dynasty.
Abu Salma Hammad ibn Salamah ibn Dinar al-Basri (Arabic: حماد بن سلمة بن دينار البصري; died 167 AH/783 CE), the son of Salamah ibn Dinar, was a prominent narrator of hadith and one of the earliest grammarians of the Arabic language.
The spiritual meaning of the word with its universe of signification, and its scope of signification, contains an interpretation of meaning that derives from the Christian spirit and is thus a guide to life...
These practices are mostly supported by a strong and consolidated fan base, although larger non-professional translation projects normally apply crowdsourcing models and are controlled by companies or organizations.
Abi Ishaq's work was considered influential upon later grammarians, as he was quoted as an authority by Sibawayh in his seminal work on Arabic grammar seven times.
Succeeding his father, he was appointed to the Naqib office, acting as the head of the Alids in the area.
Theology and thought Joseph Schacht described him as the "solitary representative of historical writing in Mecca in the XIXth century".
He was a specialist in phonology, accentology, historical grammar and lexicography, philosophy of language and history of linguistics.
5th century CE), was an Indian-Hindu linguistic philosopher and poet, known for his contributions to the fields of linguistics, grammar, and philosophy.
Perceived homoeroticism Some historians, including the queer historian John Boswell, have identified what they consider to be a homoerotic or homosexual subtext in Alcuin's writings.
Phonology Vedic differs from Classical Sanskrit to an extent comparable to the difference between Homeric Greek and Classical Greek.
Professor John Earle (Anglo-Saxon Literature, 1884) thinks he aimed at correcting the apocryphal, and to modern ideas superstitious, teaching of the earlier Blickling Homilies.
It sought mainly to help speakers of Koine Greek understand the language of Homer, and other great poets of the past.
Terentianus, surnamed Maurus (a native of Mauretania), was a Latin grammarian and writer on prosody who flourished probably at the end of the 2nd century AD.
Nonetheless, the following additions recommended by the Conference were approved in 1927: ⟨ˑ⟩ could now indicate full length when there is no need to distinguish half and full length.
In the later years of his life, he dedicated his time to teach literature at Baghdad, and he composed a handful of poetry alongside his literary works.
Al-Shihabi was promoted to the rank of secretary-general of the Syrian Council of Ministers in addition to second terms as the governor of both Aleppo and Latakia.
In the accompanying letter he named the translator as "Robert of Ketton from England, who is now archdeacon of the church of Pamplona" (Roberto Ketenensi de Anglia, qui nunc Pampilonensis ecclesiae archidiaconus est).
In between his study of Qur'an reading in his hometown of Mecca and in Basra, he also travelled to learn more about the practice in the Kufan school and in Medina.
Al-Farahidi is referenced throughout Al-Kitāb always in the third person, in phrases such as "I asked him", or "he said".
During his trip he observed and studied the characteristics of the Turkish dialects, ethnography, folk poetry and folk customs of Turkish and other local peoples.
The authorship and date of the oldest Unadi-Sutras (known as the Panchapadi-Unadi-Sutras) is uncertain; some authors would attribute them to Pāṇini himself, others to his predecessors, such as Śākaṭāyana, Āpiśali, or Kātyāyana.
He collaborated with Anna Wierzbicka on Natural semantic metalanguage research and is credited by her with reviving the notion of Leibniz's "alphabet of human thought", or Lingua Mentalis.
Wilbur Samuel Howell, The Rhetoric of Alcuin and Charlemagne, New York, Russell and Russell, 1965 (1941); ed.
"Notes on Some Old Manuscripts of the Adab al-kātib of ibn Qutayba, the Kitāb aṡ-Ṡināʿatayn of Abū Hilāl al-ʿAskarī, and the Maṯal as-sāʾir of Ḍiyāʾ ad-Dīn ibn al-Aṯīr".
His interests also take in semantics, lexicology, lexicography, pragmatics, syntax, inflection, neologism phonology, theories of text and translation, semiotics and the theory of literature.
He held opinions on grammatical and morphological matters, some of which are preserved in his works, others through later scholars discussing or transmitting his positions.
The Book of Han devotes a full two-part chapter to both Yang and Sima, an honor surpassing that of even the most famous generals and ministers.
2015 References External links Arabic-English Dictionary of Qur'anic Usage A Dictionary of Egyptian Arabic: Arabic - English
During more than half of the dialogue, Socrates makes guesses at Hermogenes's request as to where names and words have come from.
A later conviction for publicly lecturing against inviting the United States to enter the war on the United Kingdom's side resulted in six months' imprisonment in Brixton Prison (see Bertrand Russell's political views) in 1918 (he was prosecuted under the Defence of the Realm Act).
2007 Arabic Mustawayāt al-ʻArabīyah al-muʻāṣirah fī Miṣr : baḥth fī ʻalāqat al-lughah bi-al-ḥaḍārah.
From 1917 to 1929, he worked as a high school professor at grammar schools in Prague (in Truhlářská and Dušní streets).
removes the vowel), inserts the vowel *e in a position which does not necessarily match that of the original vowel, and appends an accented thematic vowel (or accents any existing final thematic vowel).
The system thus established is extremely detailed as to śikṣā (phonology, including accent) and vyākaraṇa (morphology).
He was said to be tutor to the children of the governor of Arabian and Persian Iraq, Ziyad ibn Abih.
Ibn al-ʻAlāʼ studied under Ibn Abi Ishaq and among his own pupils were Al-Khalil ibn Ahmad al-Farahidi, Yunus ibn Habib, Al-Asma'i and Harun ibn Musa.
But unlike its contemporaries, it took as its exemplars for such theories not the foremost orators of Greek and Roman antiquity, but Moses and the leading figures of the Hebrew Bible.
El-Said Muhammad Badawi (Arabic: السعيد محمد بدوي, romanized: Al-Saʿīd Muḥammad Badawī; 1929 – March 16, 2014) was a scholar and linguist and author of many works, both in English and in Arabic, dealing with various aspects of the Arabic language.
Compared to previous machine translation systems, which were symbolic systems manually coded by computational linguists, these systems were statistical, which allowed them to automatically learn from large textual corpora.
Feferman's proposal results in a radical restriction of logical terms as compared to Tarski's original proposal.
brute Certain mechanical factors of language function, such as response to stimuli, are evident in both humans and animals; however, Chomsky cites several 17th-century Cartesian experiments that show that the creative aspect of language is specific only to human beings.
The literary evidence that the science of Vyākaraṇa existed in Vedic times abound in the Brahmanas, Aranyakas and Upanishads, states Moriz Winternitz.
Writings The identification of the writings of Michael Synkellos is complicated by the existence of three or four 9th-century writers named Michael who were identified by their office of synkellos.
The denasal diacritic was clarified as being partially denasal: a fully denasal [m], for example, would simply be written [b].
Their work predicted the concept of universal grammar, suggesting that universal grammatical rules may be extracted from all living languages.
While he lived among the Bedouin Qarmatians, he recorded in his book Tahdhib al-Lughat their way of living and learned their idioms and expressions.
The Old English Version of the Heptateuch, Ælfric's Treatise on the Old and New Testament and His Preface to Genesis.
Moreover, until Russell and Whitehead's Principia Mathematica (3 vols.) appeared in 1910–1913, the dominant approach to mathematical logic was still that of George Boole (1815–1864) and his intellectual descendants, especially Ernst Schröder (1841–1902).
Sir Alfred Jules "Freddie" Ayer ( AIR; 29 October 1910 – 27 June 1989) was an English philosopher known for his promotion of logical positivism, particularly in his books Language, Truth, and Logic (1936) and The Problem of Knowledge (1956).
Fifteen works by al-Maydānī are known, of which the most famous is the paremiological Majmaʿ al-amthāl, which remains the "most popular collection of classical Arabic proverbs".
versuum Aeneidos principalium: another teaching aid, using question and answer to dissect the first lines of each of the twelve books of the Aeneid.
Because this arrangement no longer made it clear that the ◌͇ diacritic simply marked a consonant as alveolar and was not specific to labio-alveolars, the nonsibilant alveolar slit fricatives [θ͇], [ð͇] were added to the alveolar column of the consonant table.
As part of his reconstruction, Kircher filled the missing gaps with the hieroglyphs he believed would best fit the text according to his understanding of their meaning.
Collections Split into two levels (ground floor and basement), the museum presents its information via touchscreens accompanied by recordings (headphones), along with games and objects that illustrate the various subjects.
The explanations are not repeated here; details can be found at extIPA or in the relevant phonetic articles.
With the financial support of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Budapest Jewish community he spent five years in Constantinople studying Turkish language and culture.
To take advantage of large, unlabelled datasets, algorithms were developed for unsupervised and self-supervised learning.
His most notable students were: Sibawayh, Yunus ibn Habib, Abu ʿUbaidah, Abu Zayd al-Ansari and Al-Asma'i.
All of the manuscripts of Cato's treatise De agri cultura also include a copy of Varro's De re rustica.
Descendants Following on from his father, Messer Leon's son also became a noted rabbi, physician and author, and defender of the value of the secular disciplines of the Renaissance to Jewish philosophy culture and study.
Dictionarium quatuor linguarum (The Dictionary of Four Languages) is a 16th-century book by the German polymath Hieronymus Megiser that includes a multilingual dictionary and a multilingual grammar of Italian, Slovene, German, and Latin.
The three commentaries on Yaska's Nirukta text are by Hindu scholars named Durgasinha (also known as Durga) who likely lived before the 6th-century CE, Skanda-Mahesvara who may be two scholars who probably lived before the 5th-century CE, and Nilakantha who probably is from the 14th-century.
Notes This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William (1870).
His famous commentaries include the Bŗhadāraņyakopanişad-bhāşya-vārttika and the Taittirīya-vārttika.
Deciphering of the Hittite language To solve the mystery of the Hittite language, Bedřich Hrozný focused on a text passage that reads: nu NINDA-an ezzatteni watar-ma ekutteni.
The area where Danilov and his team worked was the village of Beliki in the region of Poltava, in the summer of 1927.
Notes References Further reading Anne Grondeux (2001), Le Graecismus d'Évrard de Béthune à travers ses gloses Anne Grondeux (2010), Glosa super Graecismum Eberhardi Bethuniensis Capitula I–III: de figuris coloribusque rhetoricis Friedrich Wilhelm Bautz (1975).
Katyayana is identified as the Vārttikakāra of Indian linguistics, who wrote commentaries on Pāṇini's Aṣṭādhyāyi.
While research in the 1960s concentrated on limited language pairs and input, demand in the 1970s was for low-cost systems that could translate a range of technical and commercial documents.
Though there were several schools of Grammar before Panini also, of which Panini gives reference in his work.
It provides insights into the intellectual and cultural life of the German-speaking regions during the late Renaissance and the Reformation, a period of significant social, religious, and political change.
Another aspect of this universality is generative grammar, a Chomskyan approach, which is one finite, ubiquitous aspect of language that provides the "organic unity" of which Humboldt wrote.
In the preface to the first volume he regrets that, except for Alfred's translations, Englishmen had no means of learning the true doctrine as expounded by the Church Fathers of the Latin Church.
Hava Tirosh-Rothschild, Between Worlds: The Life and Thought of Rabbi David ben Judah Messer Leon, pp.
This book contains one of the most complete lists of types of dactylic hexameters in antiquity, including the teres versus, which may (or may not) be the so-called "golden line." Diomedes wrote about the same time as Charisius and used the same sources independently.
Fortunatianus being a common name in the African provinces, it is probable that the author was a countryman of Juba, Terentianus Maurus and Victorinus.
After the fall of Northern Qi, Zhitui became an official of the Northern Zhou, and moved his family to Guanzhong.
a prominent philologist of his time, known for his talents and the transmitting of philological knowledge.
But the main contributions of Patañjali lies in the treatment of the principles of grammar enunciated by him.
The works of both grammarians are valuable, but whereas much of Charisius has been lost, the Ars of Diomedes has come down to us complete (although probably abridged).
Burnell believed that most non-Pāṇinian systems of Sanskrit grammar were traceable to this school of grammar, believed to be the oldest and reputed to be founded by Indra himself.
He became an admirer of the Warring States period Chu poet Qu Yuan, and an imitator of his own Shu forebear Sima Xiangru.
991, ISBN 0631149651 {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) Lejay, Paul (1911), "Priscianus" , in Herbermann, Charles (ed.), Catholic Encyclopedia, vol.
Alphabet The author of the First Grammatical Treatise proposes that long vowels be marked with an acute accent, e.g.
Hanley, associate director for LANE, developed a system for recording sound on aluminum discs using automobile batteries as a power source.
The rime dictionary is a type of dictionary arranged by tone and rime, in which the pronunciations of characters are indicated by fanqie spellings.
The humanists had interpolated other materials into the Vita Vergili to add details and fill in gaps, and these interpolations are collectively called Donatus auctus ["the augmented Donatus"].
To avoid the possibility of confusion the extIPA symbol was changed to reversed ⟨𝼃⟩, and the opportunity was taken to add analogous letters for voiced [𝼁] and nasal [𝼇].
Auraicept na n-Éces : the scholars' primer ; being the texts of the Ogham tract from the Book of Ballymote and the Yellow Book of Lecan, and the text of the Trefhocul from the Book of Leinster (Repr.
Abu al-Hasan would therefore become a faithful disciple of al-Kisai, and he showed great interest in grammar and philology.
Overview The most common texts orthotes onomaton appears in are Plato's works Cratylus, Protagoras, and The Republic.
2019 The Shalom Spiegel Institute Summer Seminar in Medieval Hebrew Poetry dedicated to the work of Abraham Ibn Ezra.
It can be considered the first book ever printed in Greek, since it bears a Greek title-page and the text contains large parts in the language.
German publications on the occasion of the 1150th anniversary of his death: Hans-Jürgen Kotzur, ed., Rabanus Maurus: Auf den Spuren eines karolingischen Gelehrten.
Biography Helimski graduated in 1972 from the Department of Structural and Applied Linguistics at Moscow State University.
These are written in the form of a dialogue, and in two of them the interlocutors are Charlemagne and Alcuin.
Avotins "The sophist Aristocles and the grammarian Phrynichus", Parola del Passato 33 (1978), 181–91 J.
It is a commentary on and rearrangement of 700 sutras composed by Narendra and includes around 900 rules.
This helped to advance understanding of how the fields of internal languages are demarcated and he assisted the development of the empirical study of linguistics.
His scholarship on the philologist Sībawayh’s grammar, Al-Kitāb, led to his appointment as tutor to the son of the humanist caliph Ḥakam II, the crown prince Hishām II.
The Wafayat al-Ayan (Obituaries of Eminent Men) by Ibn Khallikan contains a similar account with additional information: Great diversity of opinion exists about his name, surname and genealogy.
After the subsequent coup of Adib Shishakli, al-Shihabi was designated as Syria's ambassador to Egypt.
1498), more usually called Judah Messer Leon (Hebrew: יהודה מסר לאון), was an Italian rabbi, teacher, physician, and philosopher.
For the first time, labial sounds were shown on the left and laryngeal ones on the right: ⟨ř⟩ was added for the Czech fricative trill and ⟨ɛ̈⟩ replaced ⟨ä⟩, following their approval in 1909.
He posited that language and cognition are linked and that by understanding grammar one can attain spiritual liberation.
He lived in the taifa principality of "Dénia and the Eastern Islands" (طائفة دانية والجزائر الشرقية) under the rule of Emir Mujahid al-Amiri al-Muwaffaq (الأمير مجاهد العامري) (1044-1014) and he travelled to Mecca and Medina.
On 1 October, in the Butyrka prison, he requested in writing that the NKVD halt severe interrogation methods against him, arguing that they made him issue false statements that confused the investigation against him.
Works Kitab al-Tafsir (كتاب التفسير; Book of Interpretation) Yaqin al-Bulagha' (يقين البلغاء; The Certainty of Eloquent Men) al-Tasrif (التصريف; Morphology) See also List of pre-modern Arab scientists and scholars == References ==
Gustav Bergmann (Austrian German: [ˈbɛrɡman]; May 4, 1906 – April 21, 1987) was an Austrian-American philosopher.
लौकिक or classical) As per another legend, it is one of the eight forms of marriage where the bride's father receives a pair of kine from the groom.
It was generally accepted that creative poets often embed and express double meanings, ellipses and novel ideas to inspire the reader.
Danilov's influence on the new linguistic movement likewise brought him into conflict with the exponents of Marrism, who used the term "danilovščina" (даниловщина), coined by Jakubinskii, to denounce Danilov's ideas as a dangerous tendency for the development of new linguistics.
For example, a human brain seems to exhibit a capacity for thought when none of its neurons exhibit any such capacity.
Tiberius and Claudius both felt he was too dissolute to allow boys and young men to be entrusted to him.
Listing of pronouns ("pronoun" is not an accurate translation but is commonly used as the list includes 'he', 'she', 'it', but also 'all' (from which the group gets its name), 'that').
Ivanov's dictionary, which was at his home at the time of his arrest and execution in 1937, has never been seen since.
Death and legacy Erman said that the so-called pseudo-participle(also known as old perfective or stative) had been, in meaning and in form, a rough analogue of the Semitic perfect, though the original employment of the pseudo-participle was almost obsolete in the time of the earliest known texts.
Seeing this difficulty, there was a need to invent such a method in which all sutras necessary for the achievement of a particular experiment are available at one place.
de metris omnibus explicit liber iiii ("here ends the 4th book of Aelius Festus Aphthonius's de metris omnibus").
The pair lived in the Sui dynasty (581–618), and their work ensured the long-term survival of the Shuowen.
ad-Du'ali's large-dot system addressed both of these, resolving readers' confusion and making clear how to read and write Arabic words.
He rejects mind-brain identity theories, as well as functionalism, eliminativism and other forms of reductionism.
At his time he was one of the most recognised scholars of the Turkish folk literature and Turkish dialectology.
Influence of the Tower of Babel myth The book proposes to present all the world's languages known at the time together with their various writing systems.
At the University of Vienna, he studied Akkadian, Aramaic, Ethiopian, Sumerian and Sanskrit, as well as the cuneiform used in Asia Minor, Mesopotamia and Persia.
7, Albany: State University of New York Press Ṭaghrī-Birdī (Ibn), Abū al-Maḥāsin Yūsuf (1956) [1929].
Other prominent examples are Greek mythological figures like Aphrodite from avrat, or Artemis from tertemiz.
Late Middle Ages A group of Middle English Bible translations were created: including the Wycliffean Bibles (1383, 1393) and the Paues' New Testament, based on the Vulgate.
The young linguists of Jazikofront, together with Danilov, shared the conviction with Marrists that Indo-European linguistics was an obsolete approach to the study of language, but their conclusions about what should replace it were different.
Data can be exported in CSV format and is available through online databases and public repositories, including an open-access GitHub repository.
Praxiphanes also wrote a works titled On Friendship, On Rare Words, On the Universe, On Poems, and commentaries on Homer's Odyssey, Hesiod's Works and Days, Sophocles' Oedipus at Colonus, and Plato's Timaeus.
These definitions refer only to items taught in the grammar or its ancillary texts such at the Dhātupāṭha; this fact is made clear in P.
Works Kitab al-Amaly (كتاب الأمالي; Book of Dictations) Commentary on the Jumal of Ibn Jinni Commentary on the Tasrif al-Muluki Hamasa See also List of pre-modern Arab scientists and scholars == References ==
Life Ibn Salamah was born roughly in 82 AH (701/702 CE) and died of natural causes in 167 AH (783/784 CE).
Kavirajamarga (Kannada: ಕವಿರಾಜಮಾರ್ಗ) (850 C.E.) is the earliest available work on rhetoric, poetics and grammar in the Kannada language.
He notes that missionaries will inevitably accompany the host and attempt to convert the "Saracens".
Beginning in 1945, he was professor at the Charles University in Prague, later becoming head of the Department for the Czech Language, then Phonetics, then General Linguistics, and finally Dean of the Faculty of Arts.
According to the Indian tradition, the purpose of a vārttika is to enquire into what has been said (ukta), what has not been said (anukta), and what has not been said clearly (durukta).
The field grew probably because almost a quarter of words in the Vedic texts composed in the 2nd-millennium BCE appear just once.
Ignác Kúnos (originally Ignác Lusztig; 22 September 1860 in Hajdúsámson, Hungary – 12 January 1945 in Budapest, Hungary) was a Hungarian linguist, turkologist, folklorist, a correspondent member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.
Having learned the Qur'an by the age of ten in his village, El-Nakhas, Sharqiyya Governorate, he attended Al-Azhar University for his secondary schooling.
Uttering the nāda induces the same mental state or sphoṭa in the listener - it comes as a whole, in a flash of recognition or intuition (pratibhā, 'shining forth').
Later in the Tang dynasty (618–907), Li Yangbing (713–741) prepared an edition, though this version is lost as well.
Kircher's approach to translation was to assume (incorrectly) that hieroglyphs were ideographs rather than representations of sound, and that they communicated ideas without grammar or syntax.
In 1151, Robert's bishop, Lope de Artajona, sent him as his delegate to a conference to resolve the disputed boundary between the dioceses of Pamplona and Zaragoza.
The period following the death of the Abbasid caliph Hārūn al-Rashīd (809) until the accession of al-Maʾmūn (813) was one of unrest that greatly affected the churches of Palestine.
Unicode While the tónos of monotonic orthography looks similar to the oxeîa of polytonic orthography in most typefaces, Unicode has historically separate symbols for letters with these diacritics.
Although shallow orthography is easier to grasp, researchers have argued that deeper orthographies make it challenging for individuals with dyslexia to learn.
In 1595 he had a great trial of skill with one Daniel Johnson, for a golden pen valued at £20, and won it; and a contemporary author further relates that he had also the arms of calligraphy given him, which are azure, a pen or (blue with a gold pen).
Arabic The Arabic alphabet (Arabic: أَلْأَبْجَدِيَّة ٱلْعَرَبِيَّة, al-ʾabjadīyaḧ l-ʿarabīyah or أَلْحُرُوف ٱلْعَرَبِيَّة, al-ḥurūf l-ʿarabīyaḧ), or Arabic abjad, is the Arabic script as it is codified for writing Arabic.
There were many other such shorthand symbols, to indicate corrections, emendations, deletions, additions, and so on.
The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) also has some featural elements, for example in the hooks and tails that are characteristic of implosives, ɓ ɗ ʄ ɠ ʛ, and retroflex consonants, ʈ ɖ ʂ ʐ ɳ ɻ ɽ ɭ.
So there's no vowel killer (or halant) and no need to form complex clusters or to contextually change the letter forms in ligatures for initial or grouped vowels, and final or grouped consonants.
The second option was officially approved by the Khabarovsk Regional Executive Committee in January 1989.
It was initially designed by Sardar as a bicameral script, where the lowercase letters were known as Galang Onal, however only the capital letters called Ol Onal have been used for teaching and printed books.
When it is not known if certain words change their meaning depending on the context they appear in (homonyms).
This use is compared to sajiao (Chinese: 撒娇), a child-like acting seen in East Asian cultures that are also vocalized by raising or extending tone.
In an outburst, an unregistered Wikipedia editor wrote "READ THE GODDAMN OFFICIAL WEBSITE, YOU POMPOUS IDIOTS".
Journalist Jay Hathaway wrote that most of dril's followers understood the tweet to be an ironic joke exploring the uncertain "etiquette around this very 2016 expression of bigotry ...
I is first class (no longer used), Ro is second class (now "Green car") and Ha is third class (standard carriages).
A letterform, letter-form or letter form is a term used especially in typography, palaeography, calligraphy and epigraphy to mean a letter's shape.
Examples of featural systems This is a small list of examples of featural writing systems by date of creation.
They are not encoded as precombined characters in Unicode, so they are typed by adding the U+030C ◌̌ COMBINING CARON to the Greek letter.
Gallery Later influence Renaissance Square capitals were greatly respected by artisans of the Renaissance such as Geoffroy Tory and Felice Feliciano.
The normal, easy, left-to-right movement of the eye is slowed down simply because of this separation; further, the short letters and serifs are unable to discharge an important function: keeping the eye on "the line".
For example, in French, the following four words would be sorted this way: cote < côte < coté < côté.
The alphabetic approach is used mainly by foreigners who want to learn the language, as studying the Manchu script as a syllabary takes longer.
Leibniz wrote about the alphabet of human thought and Alexander von Humboldt corresponded with Peter Stephen Du Ponceau who proposed a universal phonetic alphabet.
In Middle Iranian scripts derived from the Aramaic scripts (such as the Pahlavi scripts), all logograms are heterograms coming from Aramaic.
His name is most likely Abu Imran, Moshe ben David ben Naphtali as preserved in Mishael ben Uzziel's 11th century treatise and in the Cairo Geniza fragment T-S K27.36 in the University Library at Cambridge.
His ship arrived at Calcutta on 21 January 1891, not really knowing how to proceed further for the unexplored land.
History The Dravidian family comprises about 73 languages including Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, and Malayalam.
The differences between Ben Naphtali and Ben Asher number about 860, about nine-tenths of which refer to the placing of the accents מתג and געיא.
There are minor variations in the use of the conventions between epigraphy and papyrology (and even between Greek and Latin epigraphy).
Fe When Pe appears without the dagesh dot in its center (פ), then it usually represents a voiceless labiodental fricative /f/.
Another example is tsIurku, a Latin transcription of the Chechen term for the capping stone of the characteristic Medieval defensive towers of Chechnya and Ingushetia; the letter "I" (palochka) is not actually capital, denoting a phoneme distinct from the one transcribed as "i".
Following the lead of Dante, he advocated the enrichment of the Italian language, and espoused in his Castellano (1529) the theory that the language is a courtly one made up of contributions from the refined centres in Italy; instead of being fundamentally of Tuscan origin.
Matthijs Siegenbeek, professor at Leiden was officially asked in 1801 to draw up a uniform spelling; the priest Petrus Weiland was asked to write a grammar book.
Unlike in English, the em dashes are spaced like brackets, i.e., there is a space between main sentence and dash, but not between parenthetical phrase and dash.
He also talks about diple peri strichon (or sticon), which was used to draw attention to separate concepts, and diple periestigmene used (like obelos) to mark dubious passages.
Baybayin Baybayin is a script that has historically been widely used in traditional Tagalog domains and in other parts of Luzon and Visayas in the Philippines prior to and during the 16th and 17th centuries.
Digraphs Although most IALs eschew digraphs, there are some IALs that use digraphs: Interlingua: ch, qu, ph, sh Ido: ch, qu, sh Novial: ch, sh Esperanto H-system: ch (for ĉ), gh (for ĝ), hh (for ĥ), jh (for ĵ), and sh (for ŝ).
They have a very considerable effect on the declension of nouns and adjectives and the conjugation of verbs because many of the endings produce consonant-vowel combinations that the spelling rules strictly forbid.
According to Katz, critics of Yiddish often highlighted the German, Slavic, and Hebrew syncretism of Yiddish to allege that the language was impure and corrupted.
Modern Hebrew uses the forms פ כ‎ finally, when transcribing a plosive pronunciation, for example מיקרוסקופ‎ (microscope), מובארכ‎ (Mubarak, مبارك), while their final forms ף ך‎, are transcribing a fricative pronunciation, for example כך‎ (Kach), שף‎ (Chef).
The best cases have a straightforward spelling system, enabling a writer to predict the spelling of a word given its pronunciation and similarly enabling a reader to predict the pronunciation of a word given its spelling.
In a featural writing system, the shapes of the symbols (such as letters) are not arbitrary but encode phonological features of the phonemes that they represent.
Primary source 19th and 20th century manuscripts from the Naxi people, Yunnan Province, China; only pictographic writing system still in use anywhere in the world.
Following this, she went on the teach at the Institute for Aboriginal Development and Yipirinya School.
Diple obolismene was used according to Isidore to separate sentences in comedies and tragedies, so its usage was similar to that of paragraphos.
The Conservative Intelligentsia: The learned men of the time, led by Jovan Hadžić (pen name Miloš Svetić), considered the vernacular "vulgar" and "rustic," unworthy of literature and science.
Fans of the story have conceptualized Zalgo as "either an unseen supernatural force, a secret cabal, or perhaps even an evil demigod" and compared it to the Great Old Ones in the work of H.
Computing In computer science, the asterisk is commonly used as a wildcard character, or to denote pointers, repetition, or multiplication.
Brackets, without further qualification, in British English refers to the (...) marks and in American English the [...] marks.
Glasgow: Harper Collins, 1999, 1151 S., ISBN 0-00-472358-9 Jan Henrik Holst: German politicians' decision on 30 March 2006: Nazi orthography becomes obligatory in German schools!
Supporters of the "Leningrad" alphabet criticize the "Khabarovsk" version for the difficulty of perception by students.
For example, in some contexts, 8/A Evergreen Gardens specifies Apartment 8 in Building A of the residential complex Evergreen Gardens.
In Unicode, a given character is allocated a code point: all allographs of that character have the same code point and thus the essential meaning is retained irrespective of font choice at time of printing or display.
Both letters were also used by Anglo-Saxon scribes who also used the Runic letter Wynn to represent /w/.
For example, Employee.name~lower() would cause the lower() method to act on the object Employee's name attribute, returning the result of the operation.
Additionally, the approach is supported by organizations like Teach a Student to Read, which advocates for SWI's effectiveness in fostering a deeper understanding of English spelling rules.
(not before inflectional endings with t and possibly schwa [ə]):e.g., Wachstum, Weisheit, Häuslein, Mäuschen, Bistum, nachweisbar, wohlweislich, boshaft(however: er reiſte, das ſechſte, cf.
Other languages typically have hard ⟨g⟩ pronunciations except possibly in loanwords where it may represent [ʒ] or [dʒ].
Words which begin with ڑ are exceedingly rare, but some have been documented in Shahmukhi dictionaries such as Iqbal Salahuddin's Waddi Punjabi Lughat.
Vowel diacritics Like Urdu, Shahmukhi also has diacritics, which are implied - a convention retained from the original Arabic script, to express short vowels.
scan: A short Introduction or guiding to print, write, and reade Inglish speech at the Internet Archive Bullokar, William (1580).
In LaTeX mathematical mode, the ASCII vertical bar produces a vertical line, and \| creates a double vertical line (a | b \| c is set as a | b ‖ c {\displaystyle a|b\|c} ).
Works Grammar Logonomia Anglica, qua gentis sermo facilius addiscitur, London, by John Beale, 1619, 2nd edit.
Assignment of speech sounds to phonemes A phoneme is a sound or a group of different sounds perceived to have the same function by speakers of the language or dialect in question.
Affection (also known as vowel affection, infection or vowel mutation), in the linguistics of the Celtic languages, is the change in the quality of a vowel under the influence of the vowel of the following final syllable.
If the phrase was a subtitle, as with every other Star Trek film with a title longer than two words except for Star Trek Generations, then Wikipedia's manual of style would recommend that "Into" be capitalized as the first word in the subtitle.
Missionary work Arthington Aborigines Mission Lorrain and Savidge arrived in Aizawl on 11 January 1894 to be the first missionaries to Mizos.
Hart wrote the eponymous Hart's Rules for Compositors and Readers in 1905 as a style guide for the employees working at the press.
In languages using the ISO basic Latin alphabet, terminal punctuation marks are defined as the period, the question mark, and the exclamation mark.
Eventually, the application of such statistical methods becomes exceedingly laborious, in which computers might be used to apply them automatically.
Other spellings The writer David Kathman has tabulated the variations in the spelling of Shakespeare's name as reproduced in Samuel Schoenbaum's William Shakespeare: A Documentary Life.
(In some typefaces, one or other or both of these characters are designed in these styles; they are not produced by overstrike or by combining diacritic.
He chose the name to reference the punctuation marks that inspired it: interrogatio is Latin for "rhetorical question" or "cross-examination"; bang is printers' slang for the exclamation mark.
The "Shakespear" spelling continued to be used by scholars throughout the 18th century, including William Warburton.
In addition, most final consonants are mute (including those consonants that are part of feminine, plural, and conjugation endings).
The text is set up in a strict literary style and works with typical elements like parallelism and chiasmus as already employed in the earlier Babylonian incantation type, for example in the incantation series Maqlû and Šurpu.
They are thus to be classed as neither alphabets nor syllabaries; rather, they are mixed scripts normally identified as semi-syllabaries.
Speedwriting is the trademark under which three versions of a shorthand system were marketed during the 20th century.
English does not have tetragraphs in native words (the closest is perhaps the sequence -ough in words like through), but chth and phth are true tetragraphs when found initially in words of Greek origin such as chthonic and phthisis.
The journal has covered the subject of concrete poetry, the Fluxus art movement, painted text, textual criticism, the abstraction of symbols, articulatory synthesis and text, and the evolution of the page from print to on-screen display.
The Africa Alphabet (also International African Alphabet or IAI alphabet) is a set of letters designed as the basis for Latin alphabets for the languages of Africa.
Additionally, children show a greater difficulty throughout schooling when spelling words with irregular or unusual orthographies when compared to their other children.
The use of the Avestan alphabet to write Middle Persian required the addition of one symbol to the Avestan alphabet: This character, to represent the /l/ phoneme of Middle Persian, had not previously been needed.
A positional example of allography is the long s |ſ|, a symbol which was once a widely used as a non-final allograph for the lowercase letter s.
The name adlam is an acronym derived from the first four letters of the alphabet (A, D, L, M), standing for Alkule Dandayɗe Leñol Mulugol ("the alphabet that protects the peoples from vanishing").
History This topic has a complicated and disparate history, spread over different continents and relating to different areas of indexing, cataloguing and filing.
The orthography of Greek includes several digraphs, including various pairs of vowel letters that used to be pronounced as diphthongs but have been shortened to monophthongs in pronunciation.
While § is usually read in spoken English as the word "section", many other languages use the word "paragraph" exclusively to refer to a section of a document (especially of legal text), and use other words to describe a paragraph in the English sense.
He served in Indian Army Pioneer Corps during World War II and was promoted from a private soldier to 2nd lieutenant in January 1941.
A 2004 eye-tracking study found that Tall Man lettering resulted in fewer errors when selecting a target drug from an array of choices.
Many of these are characteristic developments of modern Greek, but some were already present in Classical Greek.
Context-sensitive spell checkers appeared in the now-defunct applications Microsoft Office 2007 and Google Wave.
"The religious landscape of Northwest Arabia as reflected in the Nabataean, Nabataeo-Arabic, and pre-Islamic Arabic inscriptions".
Some Christians changed their profile pictures to the letter ن as a symbol of support, calling it the "Mark of the Nazarene".
For example: the root of תַּשְׁבֵּצִים/taʃbeˈtsim/ "crossword puzzles" is שב״צ (š—b—ṣ); the root of לְהַטּוֹת /lehaˈtot/ "to tilt, to conjugate" is נט״ה‎ (n—ṭ—h); and the root of הִסְתַּנְכְּרְנוּת /histankreˈnut/ "being synchronized" is סנכר״נ (s–n–k–r–n).
The vast territory of Even settlement, the differences in dialects, the presence of various letters in typographic fonts caused the fact that different versions of Even script began to spontaneously arise in different regions.
National Punctuation Day is a celebration of punctuation that occurs each year on September 24 in the United States of America.
Benno Landsberger, "Zu den aramäischen Beschwörungen in Keilschrift," Archiv für Orientforschung 12, 1938, pp.
Although the manuscript has been studied, "translated" in accordance with correct Gaelic orthography and republished – for the first time in 1923 by Calum MacPhàrlainn – it has been said that it has yet to be reliably interpreted.
He suggests that teachers strike a balance between implicit instruction and explicit instruction, with explicit instruction for all students at the start, followed by implicit instruction for all students except dyslexics (who continue to receive explicit instruction as required).
Non-stylistic ligatures, however, such as ⟨æ⟩, are distinct graphemes, as are various letters with distinctive diacritics, such as ⟨ç⟩.
Phonemes particular to each dialect are color-coded respectively: Consonants Hmong makes a number of phonemic contrasts unfamiliar to English speakers.
John Mace's Teach Yourself Arabic Verbs and Essential Grammar presents alternative forms in almost all cases when hamza is followed by a long ū.
Japanese kana use trigraphs for (C)yō sequences, as in きょう kyou /kjoo/ ("today"); the う is only pronounced /o/ after another /o/.
Uses The Yakima practical alphabet is currently used in research, language teaching, and language revitalization efforts.
A modern example is the Serbo-Croatian language, which is written in either the Serbian Cyrillic alphabet or Gaj's Latin alphabet.
White nationalists, in turn, put inverted echo parentheses—like )))this(((—around their usernames to indicate their non-Jewish heritage.
The structure of the current orthography Given in accordance with the wording of the orthography of 2019.
Many earlier (pre-1985) computer displays and printers rendered the ASCII apostrophe as a punctuation apostrophe, and rendered the backtick (freestanding grave accent symbol, `, 0x60, 96) as a matching left single quotation mark.
In the colonial orthography for Massachusett, o is usually interchangeable as a symbol for a, thus could represent /a/, /aː/ and /ã/ and even /ə/.
Its chief focus is the sound changes that take place in morphemes (minimal meaningful units) when they combine to form words.
Where the original capital is no longer at the beginning of the word, usage varies: anti-Christian, and either Presocratic, pre-Socratic, Pre-Socratic or presocratic.
The later Rasmus Rask standard was a re-enactment of the old treatise, with some changes to fit concurrent North Germanic conventions, such as the exclusive use of ⟨k⟩ rather than ⟨c⟩.
The Latin script originally had only majuscule forms directly derived from the Greek alphabet, which were originally viable for being chiseled into stone.
Modern orthographies that lack a case distinction while using Latin characters include that used for the Saanich dialect in Canada, which uses majuscule letterforms save for a single suffix, and that used for palawa kani language in Tasmania, which uses only minuscule letterforms.
Morris commented that the incident shows the impact small groups of Wikipedia editors can have, especially in situations more severe than a simple capitalized letter.
Sometimes the two types of sentences are treated differently based on the presence or absence of a comma, but most writers consider the comma splice a special type of run-on sentence.
Another popularization of air quotes was the character Bennett Brauer, played on the sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live by Chris Farley, an aggressive but socially awkward commentator who used air quotes to mock societal expectations of him.
IV = 5 - 1 = 4.) The abjad numbers are also used to assign numerical values to Arabic words for purposes of numerology.
Oakhurst Dairy settled the case by paying $5 million to the drivers, and the phrase in the law in question was later changed to use serial semicolons and "distributing" – resulting in "canning; processing; preserving; freezing; drying; marketing; storing; packing for shipment; or distributing".
The views of Plato involved an ontologically separate world of forms, but those of his student Aristotle (384–322 BC) instead saw the forms as abstracts, identical in the mind of every person.
This symbol originates from a simplified form of the character 仝, a variant of "same" (同) written in the cursive script style.
Equivalent to English, "A.", "B.", and "C." (or, rarer, Roman numerals: I, II, III, IV), in Arabic, thus "أ", then "ب", then "ج", not the first three letters of the modern hijāʼī order.
His work, carried out under the direction of Omer Jodogne, turned into a thesis which he defended in 1959, which was published in 1965.
Surnames A practice exists (most commonly in Francophone countries) of distinguishing the surname from the rest of a personal name by stylizing the surname only in all caps.
In the mid-20th century, the orthography became formalized in textbooks, religious materials, and literacy campaigns, retaining close correspondence between letters and sounds.
The spelling systems for some languages, such as Spanish or Italian, are relatively simple because they adhere closely to the ideal one-to-one correspondence between sounds and the letter patterns that represent them.
The ⟨c⟩ is hard in a handful of words like arcing, synced/syncing, chicer (/ʃiːkər/), and Quebecer (alternatively spelled ⟨Quebecker⟩) that involve a word normally spelled with a final ⟨c⟩ followed by an affix starting with ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩; soccer and recce also have a hard ⟨c⟩.
A letterform is a type of glyph, which is a specific, concrete way of writing an abstract character or grapheme.
History Angle brackets, or chevrons, ⟨ ⟩, were the earliest type of bracket to appear in written English.
A considerable number of the words used throughout cannot be found in modern Scottish Gaelic dictionaries but many can be found in Irish Gaelic dictionaries and Shaw's "pan-Gaelic" dictionary.
Reading fluency Individuals with reading fluency difficulties fail to maintain a fluid, smooth pace when reading.
Biography Butler was born into a poor family in Buckinghamshire, South East England, but became a boy chorister at Magdalen College, Oxford at the age of eight.
Detailed differences in the design of each glyph in the repertoire is the distinguishing feature of a typeface (or computer font) but in each case the grapheme being represented is constant.
The trademark symbol ™ is a symbol to indicate that the preceding mark is a trademark, specifically an unregistered trademark.
While many sources provide default recommendations on whether to use the serial comma as a matter of course, most also include exceptions for situations where it is necessary to avoid ambiguity (see Serial comma § Recommendations by style guides).
Likewise, the Juu languages have been claimed to have a heptagraph ⟨dts’kx’⟩, but this is also a sequence, of ⟨dts’⟩ and ⟨kx’⟩.
While short and long vowels are largely allophonic, there are minimal pairs in which the presence or absence of meteg can make a difference: compare e.g.
The majority of, and the core indigenous languages of pre-Islamic Arabia were all Semitic languages, including the Ancient North Arabian languages, Ancient South Arabian languages, and Arabic (being a Central Semitic language).
While most of these can be thought of as consonant + /w/, the letters in кхъ /q/ cannot be so separated: the х has the negative meaning that кхъ is not ejective, as къ is /qʼ/.
The Common Tailorable Template (CTT) data file of this ISO/IEC standard is aligned with the Default Unicode Collation Entity Table (DUCET) datafile of the Unicode collation algorithm (UCA) specified in Unicode Technical Standard #10.
Examples Notes Digraphs and diphthongs A digraph is a pair of letters used to write one sound or a combination of sounds that does not correspond to the written letters in sequence.
His biographies of notable Serbs, such as the story of Hajduk Veljko, are not only historically significant but also possess exceptional literary value, reflecting his deep engagement with the national identity and history.
The Commission on the Filipino Language (Filipino: Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino) has published several standardized prescriptive orthographies for select languages of the Philippines.
Graphic work-arounds There are several ad hoc workarounds used in email or on the internet, where the proper letters are often not supported, as seen also in non-ASCII orthographies such as German.
Jonathan Weisman, an editor at The New York Times, included the triple parentheses in the title of his 2018 book release, (((Semitism))): Being Jewish in America in the Age of Trump.
One of the possible reasons for the cessation of book publishing in the Udege language is the fact that in 1937 Yevgeny Shneider was repressed.
Thus, a single character can represent a variety of morphemes which originally all had the same meaning.
Context-sensitive spell checkers There has been research on developing algorithms that are capable of recognizing a misspelled word, even if the word itself is in the vocabulary, based on the context of the surrounding words.
Texts older than 50–60 years may be written in an unvocalized defective spelling (for example, the word ḵamiším "fifty", was written חמשים on banknotes issued in Mandatory Palestine or by the Bank of Israel in its early days.
Transposition error "Transposition error" may be confused with "transcription error", but they do not mean the same thing.
Some versions of the Apple Messages app are unable to properly handle Zalgo text, and will crash if they try to render a message that contains such text.
118, tentatively dated to 1948 The following samples presumably predate The Lord of the Rings, but were not explicitly dated: Elvish Script Sample I, II, III, with parts of the English poems Errantry and Bombadil, first published in the Silmarillion Calendar 1978, later in Pictures by J.
Beyond the Latin alphabet, Morse code uses hexagraphs for several punctuation marks, and the dollar sign ⟨$⟩ is a heptagraph, ⟨· · · — · · —⟩.
The table below shows examples of phonetic transcription of the name of the former Russian president known in English as Boris Yeltsin, followed by accepted hybrid forms in various languages.
The Chicago Manual of Style (CMOS), however, limits the use of the en dash to two main purposes: First, use it to indicate ranges of time, money, or other amounts, or in certain other cases where it replaces the word "to".
Microsoft also uses U+FF5E to map the KS X 1001 raised tilde (0xA2A6), while Apple uses U+02DC ˜ SMALL TILDE.
In 1675, after the repression of the Revolt of the papier timbré by the Royal troops, Maunier proudly stated: "Fear of God was as effective as the threat of weapons".
In 1931 the Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that a particular textbook of shorthand could be copyrighted but the system itself is an invention or process rather than a literary work and cannot be copyrighted.
For example, websites like Shameless Spelling offer extensive resources and case studies on how SWI can be implemented for a diverse range of learners, from struggling readers to those with special learning needs.
However, in Turkish and adjacent languages, this dot is a glyph because that language has two distinct versions of the letter i, with and without a dot.
However, this is a doubling of the trigraph ⟨sch⟩ to indicate that the preceding vowel is short rather than itself being a hexagraph.
Slovenian, Croatian, Serbian capitalize the formal second-person pronoun Vi along with its oblique cases (Vas, Vam, Vami) and personal pronoun (Vaš etc.) in formal correspondence.
These scripts are related to other Southeast Asian writing system that developed from South Indian Brahmi scripts.
Done ignorantly by ignorant people, it is awful." Notes References Further reading Bridge, Deborah (2009).
I-affection is an example of i-mutation and may be compared to the Germanic umlaut, and a-affection is similar to Germanic a-mutation.
Alexander Gill the Elder (7 February 1565 – 17 November 1635), also spelled Gil, was an English scholar, spelling reformer, and high-master of St Paul's School, where his pupils included John Milton.
There are exceptions in loanwords like French-derived rangieren (to rank, to shunt), spoken with a velar nasal and a soft g ([ʒ]).
Search engines typically ignore punctuation contained in a query, meaning that it can be difficult to intentionally locate posts containing this notation.
Jerome by Danish scholars of Hebrew working at the Sorbonne, there was a good knowledge of such orthographic practices at the time (particularly the designation of long vowels).
(Consonants particular to Hmong Daw and Mong Njua are color-coded respectively.) Diacritical marks The Pahawh Hmong diacritics were devised by Shong Lue Yang in isolation, and have no genetic relation to similar-looking punctuation in the European tradition (DOT ABOVE, DIAERESIS, MACRON).
Notable examples of square capitals used for inscriptions are found on the Roman Pantheon, Trajan's Column, and the Arch of Titus, all in Rome.
The remaining part of such a name, following the particle, is always capitalized if it is set off with a space as a separate word, or if the particle was not capitalized.
However, since there are many words that one reads far more often than one hears, adult native-language speakers also succumb.
In fact, the "partly clear/half muddy" consonant /p/ in Japanese would be considered "fully clear" in Chinese, while "clear" Japanese consonants such as /m/, /n/, /ɾ/, /j/ and /w/ would be "partly muddy" in Chinese.
The Eight Principles of Yong uses the single character 永 ('eternity') to teach eight of the most basic strokes in regular script.
by De Saussure) connect *dhu̯es- "smoke, spirit", attested in Baltic and Germanic words for "spook" and ultimately cognate with Latin fumus "smoke." The earliest attested form of the word is the Mycenaean Greek te-o (plural te-o-i), written in Linear B syllabic script.
Effectiveness Wrong-drug errors have been found to occur at a rate of about one per thousand orders filled or dispensed.
The wave dash is similar to, but not the same as, the tilde character (U+FF5E ～ FULLWIDTH TILDE), which is often used interchangeably with it.
Unicode The Coorgi-Cox alphabet was proposed to Unicode in 2012, and as of 2021 it was tagged as a "Script Proposal in Progress".
More broadly, letterforms may be discussed wherever letters appear stylistically—in graffiti for example.
In French and Italian, em or en dashes can be used as parentheses (brackets), but the use of a second dash as a closing parenthesis is optional.
But according to Georg Bühler, it seems more likely that the Bhattiprolu script represents a provincial offshoot of early Brahmi in the south, rather than a separate line of development from a hypothetical Semitic prototype itself, as Bühler believed.
In situations where both words should be capitalized (such as the beginning of a sentence), there will be nothing to distinguish between them except the context in which they are used.
One kudlit, ⟨◌᜔⟩, called sabat or krus, a virama removes a consonant's inherent a vowel, making it an independent consonant.
A hard working man is a working man who is tough; however, this sense of hard is rarely used before other adjectives.
As, in these languages, use of script often has cultural or political connotations, proclamation of an official script is sometimes criticized as having a goal of influencing culture or politics or both.
A 2020 study found that all caps in legal texts is ineffective and is, in fact, harmful to older readers.
Referring to mentalistic definitions of the phoneme, Twaddell (1935) stated "Such a definition is invalid because (1) we have no right to guess about the linguistic workings of an inaccessible 'mind', and (2) we can secure no advantage from such guesses.
The Yakima practical alphabet is an orthography used to write Sahaptin languages of the Pacific Northwest of North America.
A recent study revealed that adoption of Internet is highest among local languages such as Tamil, Hindi, Kannada, Bengali, Marathi, Telugu, Gujarati and Malayalam.
Capitalisation Capitalisation after a colon is now obligatory only if a full sentence or direct speech follows; otherwise a lower-case letter must go after a colon.
Neutral (straight) quotation marks, " and ', are used widely, especially in texts typed on computers and on websites.
In the 1980s, Chinese artist Xu Bing created Tiānshū, or A Book from the Sky which is a work of books and hanging scrolls on which were printed 4000 hand carved meaningless characters.
Grivelet contends that, "digraphia is a single sociolinguistic process with two types of outcome (concurrent or sequential digraphia) and with specific features related to the causes and types of development of the various cases.
The original digit designs differed in form; however, when the first digital fonts were developed in 2013, these shapes were modified due to technical limitations in accurately rendering the original designs.
However, it is not used for words containing another front vowel ⟨ە‎⟩ (e) or words containing four consonants ⟨گ‎⟩ (g), ⟨ع‎⟩ (ğ), ⟨ك‎⟩ (k), ⟨ق‎⟩ (q).
Decimals and Version Numbers: A variation of natural sort, often called version sort, is designed to handle multiple numeric segments separated by dots (e.g., 1.2.10 vs 1.2.2).
It is used in the orthography of Tundra Nenets to denote a glottal stop, in the Enets and Nganasan alphabets and in the orthography of Dan to indicate that a syllable has a top tone.
Together with his companion, Pierre Bernard, Maunoir worked among the poor, the peasants and fishermen.
In order to introduce the script, 10,000 CD booklets and 25,000 post cards with various scenes from the region were produced and distributed throughout the Coorg area in March and April 2005.
According to the Egyptologist Antonio Loprieno, the word was likely pronounced Satepna-rīꜥa ([satʰepʰna'riːʕa]).
The first written reference to Arabs was by the Assyrian King Sennacherib, 800 B.C., in which he tells of conquering the "ma'rabayeh" (Westerners).
Linguistic variants Greek: Dorotheos (Δωρόθεος) Latin: Dorotheus English: Dorotheus Russian: Dorofei (Дорофей) Serbian: Dorotej (Доротеј) Czech: Dorota, Dora fem.
The name "Negrito", from the Spanish adjective meaning "small black person", was given by early explorers.
This phenomenon is studied by a variety of academic disciplines such as anthropology, child psychology, and political science.
Relocation to other areas as part of development programmes deprives them of this connection and forces them to adapt to new living conditions.
Confucius The Analects states that social disorder often stems from failure to call things by their proper names.
Fedot, Russian: Федоt , Old orthogrtaphy: Ѳедотъ, is a masculine Russian form of given name Theodotus (Greek: Θεόδοτος).
Virginia “Birdie” Fair Vanderbilt (1875–1935), an American socialite, hotel builder/owner, philanthropist, owner of Fair Stable, a Thoroughbred racehorse operation, and a member of the prominent Vanderbilt family by marriage.
More examples are On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life and Moby-Dick; or, The Whale.
Alternatively, kven may be linked to Kainuu, a region of Eastern Finland whose etymology is also disputed.
In 1813 Lord Byron published his poem The Giaour: A Fragment of a Turkish Tale, whose themes revolve around the ideas of love, death, and afterlife in Western Europe and the Ottoman Empire.
Both the Khanty people and the Ket people were formerly called Ostyaks, whereas the Selkup people were referred to as Ostyak-Samoyed.
Common misconceptions Gratuitous verbal abuse or "name-calling" is not on its own an example of the abusive argumentum ad hominem logical fallacy.
2007–2009), Deputy Minister of Interior for Counter-Narcotics and former Governor of Badakhshan, Afghanistan Baz Bamigboye, British journalist Baz Muhammad Khan (fl.
As such the name is derived ultimately from the Etruscan language family name Egnat, the meaning of which is unknown.
In Nazi Germany, the Reichsbürgergesetz of 1935, part of the Nuremberg Laws established the legal status of Reichsbürger, i.e.
In 2002, the researchers Pelham, Mirenberg, and Jones explored Casler's first explanation, arguing that people have a basic desire to feel good about themselves and behave according to that desire.
He published several works on etymology, onomastics, and dialect, and contributed to the Oxford English Dictionary, as well as a number of journals, including Notes and Queries.
The 18th century Neapolitan nun, Saint Maria Francesca of the Five Wounds, is also said to have seen apparitions of Raphael.
Goidelic England Place names in England derived partly or wholly from Goidelic languages include: Aireyholme, Yorkshire (Great Ayton), recorded as Erghum (1138), from Old Irish airgh ("summer pastures").
People Dorotheos (sculptor) (5th century BC), of Argos, to whom Kresilas was pupil Dorotheus of Sidon (fl.
Silvo Torkar (born October 1, 1954), is a Slovenian linguist, lexicographer, onomastician, translator.
Jude is an English variant of Judas, a name derived from Ἰούδας (Ioudas), the Ancient Greek form of יְהוּדָה.
Westlake May, a character from the 1988 movie 14 Going on 30 May, localize version of Mii, main character in Jungle de Ikou!
(The Tibetan name is used for three other rivers as well.) Hydronyms from various languages may all share a common etymology.
Gussie is occasionally a given name in its own right, but is much more frequently a shortened version (hypocorism) of Chreigusta, Augustus, Augusta, Gustave, Gustavo, August, Augustine, Augusten, Augustina, Angus, Fergus, Argus, Gusten, Gus, and others.
In one letter, he praises the general Anysius for a victory he achieved over one thousand Ausuriani that year in a tight defile with a unit of just forty Unnigardae.
Mentions The earliest mention of the name Afghan (Abgân) is by Shapur I of the Sassanid Empire during the 3rd century CE.
ISBN 1-13740-417-5 Maurice Delafosse, « De l'origine du mot Toubab » in Annuaire et mémoires du comité d'études historiques et scientifiques de l'A.O.F., 1917, p.
Willy or Willie is a masculine, male given name, often a diminutive form of William or Wilhelm, and occasionally a nickname.
Βουσεγραδε Vyshhorod bretar Welsh people D Danparstaþir A river near Árheimar, according to the Hervarar saga.
The 2006 American film Flicka and its two sequels were loosely based on the previous books and films.
Dorotheus or Dorotheos is a male given name from Greek Dōrótheos (Δωρόθεος), meaning "God's Gift", from δῶρον (dōron), "gift" + θεός (theós), "god".
Scotland Scots law allows anyone who wishes to do so to change their forename(s) or surname and such changes may be recorded in the official register held by the National Records of Scotland.
All the tribes living west of the Rocky Mountains were called "Chupnit-pa-lu", which means people of the pierced noses; it also means emerging from the bushes or forest; the people from the woods.
Namely, given a category K, a named set in K is a triad X = (X, f, I), in which X and I are two objects from K and f is a morphism between X and I.
Most common in Belgium, it is a short form of the Dutch language given name Hendrik or sometimes Frederik, Erik or Rikkert.
Other pagans even preferred the narrow meaning of the word from a broad cultural sphere to a more specific religious grouping.
Further reading François Bouchetoux, Writing Anthropology: A Call for Uninhibited Methods, Palgrave Macmillan, New York, 2014, 121 p.
Vocabulary Three words found in a document commissioned by a member of the Cuismancu royal family are attributed to the -den language by Alfredo Torero.
The early application of the term included all of the non-Arab peoples with whom the Arabs had contact including Persians, Byzantine Greeks, Ethiopians, Armenians, Mandaeans, Jews, Georgians, Sabians, Egyptians, and Berbers.
People Thea Andrews (born 1973), Canadian journalist Thea Astley (1925–2004), Australian writer Thea Beckman (1923–2004), Dutch writer Thea Bock (1938–2025), German politician Thea Bowman (1937–1990), American nun Thea Dorn (born 1970), German writer Thea E.
The patronymic gens Mamercia was derived from this name, as were the cognomina Mamercus and Mamercinus.
Foreign nationals, particularly those from other African countries, were targeted in the attacks, with the attackers using the term makwerekwere to refer to their victims.
The Spanish and Italian Fran is more common for men, while the English name is mostly used for women.
This absence suggests that the ethnonym was used primarily within western Scandinavia, where it may have served to distinguish Finnish-speaking groups from Norwegians and Sámi.
During major fighting in 411, he reports that they used camels and expresses concern that they would invade Egypt.
While maintaining much of their distinctly Norman culture and customs of war, French culture also played an important role, they were partly shaped by the diversity of Southern Italy, by the cultures and customs of the Greeks, Lombards, and Arabs in Sicily.
It was subsequently superseded by Ματθαῖος (Matthaios); this was Latinised as Matthaeus, which became Matthew in English.
A virtually unknown and extinct Indigenous language of Peru, formerly spoken in Cajamarca Department, is referred to as -den from its characteristic toponym (also as -don, -ten, -ton, -din, -tin).
Isi is a personal name; sometimes an abbreviation of Isidore, Isaac, Israel, Isabel, or Islam, or the equivalents in another language.
Many Sangleys, like Limahong and Eng Kang, had traditional homosexual relationships with either other Sangleys or native Indios.
This process culminated in 212 AD, when Emperor Caracalla's Constitutio Antoniniana granted the citizenship to all free-born men of the Empire.
Trent (1936–2012), American state legislator and mining engineer Sybil Trent (1926–2000), American actress Tererai Trent (born c.
In Ukraine, the Ros and Rusna, near Kiev and Pereiaslav, respectively, whose names are derived from a postulated Slavic term for "water", akin to rosa (dew), rusalka (water nymph), ruslo (stream bed).
It has continued to increase in use following the 2019 birth of Prince Archie of Sussex, son of Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, who has brought attention to the name.
vi most commonly refers to: vi (text editor), a screen-oriented text editor software application VI, Vi, vi, V.I., or v.i.
History The system was created by the Stark County, North Dakota, emergency coordinator Kornard Burkle in 1988 as a way of assigning addresses to houses for use in the then soon to be implemented enhanced 911 services in Stark County.
Later, Rus' — in the Russian language specifically — evolved into the Byzantine-influenced form, Rossiya (Russia is Ῥωσσία (Rhōssía) in Greek).
Academic Philip Nel, who specialises in children's literature, has pointed out that the change lost the connection with alchemy.
Anna Komnene refers to the people of Paristrion as "mixobarbaroi", distinguished from the Scythians, whom they nevertheless shared language with.
It is mainly a masculine given name in German-speaking countries, but a feminine given name in Finland.
Martina Šmejkalová: Praporu věren i ve ztraceném boji: Vladimír Šmilauer - život a dílo filologa (1895-1983).
Career Since 1990, Torkar has been a full-time employee at the Fran Ramovš Institute for the Slovene Language of the ZRC SAZU, where he devotes himself to the problems of Slovene and Slavic diachronic nomenclature and questions of the historical folklore of the Baška Valley and Tolmin.
The Nahuatl name for the Purépecha was "Michhuàquê" ("those who have fish"), whence the name of the Mexican state of Michoacán.
Jewish families in medieval Spain (Sephardic) Jews who remained in Spain and agreed to accept Christianity were asked to change their surnames.
See also List of renamed places in South Africa List of city name changes List of renamed places in Namibia List of renamed places in Zimbabwe List of renamed places in the Democratic Republic of the Congo == References ==
Regions are listed alphabetically by their current best-known name in English, which does not necessarily match the title of the corresponding article.
Yonge was also a founder and editor for 40 years of The Monthly Packet, a magazine founded in 1851, with a varied readership, but targeted at British Anglican girls, though in later years it turned to a somewhat wider readership.
Place names Country names A number of African countries have undergone name changes during the previous century as the result of consolidations and secessions, territories gaining sovereignty, and regime changes.
Из исследований по праславянскому словообразованию: генезис модели на * -i ninъ, *- janinъ // Этимология.
Although it is grammatically masculine, it was also used for women; it was common during this era that the gender of a name did not correspond to that of its bearer.
The popularity of the name is due to Matthew the Apostle, one of the twelve apostles of Jesus and the traditional author of the Gospel of Matthew.
Burt is a given name and also a shortened form of other names, such as Burton and Herbert, or a place name.
Notable people with the surname include: Bolajoko Olubukunola Olusanya, Nigerian pediatrician and social entrepreneur G.O.
Since classical times, scholars have postulated that Mamers was the Oscan form of Mars, although the names Marcus and Mamercus frequently existed side-by-side.
Being the chief of the annual dialectological and toponymical expeditions he contributed to the creation of a huge collection of toponyms of the Northern part of Russia.
Awards and recognitions In 1972 Merkù received the Prešeren Award for his composition Koncert za violino in orkester (Concerto for Violin and Orchestra).
Božidar (Bulgarian, Macedonian, Serbian Cyrillic: Божидар, Polish: Bożydar, sometimes transliterated as Bojidar, or Bozhidar) is a Slavic masculine given name.
For example, One Good Turn: A Natural History of the Screwdriver and the Screw is filed as "One Good Turn (title)" and "A Natural History of the Screwdriver and the Screw (subtitle)", while Twelfth Night, or What You Will is filed as "Twelfth Night, or What You Will (title)".
'uppermost' + φωνή phone 'sound') is the naming of letters of an alphabetic writing system so that a letter's name begins with the letter itself.
The Byzantine Greeks were, and perceived themselves as, heirs to the culture of ancient Greece, the political heirs of imperial Rome, and followers of the Apostles.
1800s), Greek naval officer Emmanouil Mylonakis (born 1985), Greek water polo player Emmanouil Pappas (1772–1821), leader of the Greek War of Independence in Macedonia Emmanouil Peristerakis (fl.
Theodoulos (Greek: Θεόδουλος) or Theodulus (amongst other variations) is a Greek masculine given name.
They are often referred to as "Central Asian Gypsies" and frequently confused with the Roma, Doms, or Loms.
The name also remains in regular use in other countries, including France, Germany, Hungary, Denmark, and Sweden.
1725), also known as January Conny, European name given to an Ahanta chief from Axim, Ghana Robert Conny (1646?–1713), English physician See also Socker-Conny, a comic book character created by Joakim Pirinen Connie (disambiguation)
1742/1747–1812), African slave and soldier in the American Revolutionary War Toby Goodman (1948–2021), American politician Toby Goodshank (fl.
A person's legal name typically is the same as their personal name, comprising a given name and a surname.
People Kit Ahern (1915–2007), Irish politician Kit Armstrong (born 1992), American-born pianist and composer Kit Bond (born 1939), American politician and U.S.
1986) See also All pages with titles beginning with Amedeo for people with the first name Amedeo All pages with titles beginning with Amédéo for people with the first name Amédéo Amadea (disambiguation) Amadee (disambiguation) Amadeo (disambiguation) Amadeus (disambiguation) Amédée (disambiguation)
Many of them were created by combining a Spanish descriptive name with an English word that specifies the type of the toponym.
It may refer to: Avdo Humo (1914–1983), Bosnian communist politician Avdo Jabučica (died 1878), Ottoman Bosnian blacksmith Avdo Kalajdžić (born 1959), Bosnian football manager and former player Avdo Karabegović Hasanbegov (1878–1900), Bosnian poet S.
The Khanty languages, also known as Hanty, Khant, Xanty, or Ostyak, are a Uralic language group with about 9,500 native speakers.
The first, signified by "there are", is the so-called "wide sense", including Pegasus, the golden mountain, the round square, and so on.
Though Google is the search engine most commonly mentioned when referring to egosurfing, other widely known search engines include Yahoo, Bing, and DuckDuckGo.
It gave rise to the surnames Fedoseyev, Fedoseyenko,, Fedosov Notable people with the name include: Fedosei Ciumacenco (Fedosey Chumachenko; born 1973), Soviet and Moldovan race walker See also All pages with titles containing Fedosey Fedot
It originated in the United Kingdom (where Louis is pronounced ) as a more regularly-spelled version without a silent ⟨s⟩.
Linguistics Amalgamation is also a term used in linguistics when a compound contains roots from several languages, without it being part of a blended language.
Netjerkheperre-setepenamun Siamun, Egyptian pharaoh of the 21st Dynasty Siamun (son of Ahmose I) Siamun (son of Thutmose III) A son of Ramesses II, No.
Frictions sometimes arise between countries because of toponymy, as illustrated by the Macedonia naming dispute in which Greece has claimed the name Macedonia, the Sea of Japan naming dispute between Japan and Korea, as well as the Persian Gulf naming dispute.
See also Norman conquest of southern Italy Byzantine–Norman wars Norman–Arab–Byzantine culture Normans in France Anglo-Norman, the Normans in England Cambro-Norman, the Normans in Wales Hiberno-Norman, the Normans in Ireland Scoto-Norman, the Normans in Scotland
Under this last king and under his successor, Amenhotep IV, two other high dignitaries, royal sons of Kush, similarly called themselves "Born[s] of Thoth".
In 1999, he received his PhD in Jewish studies, from the Sorbonne, with thesis about Ashkenazic Jewry names.
Williams' book includes ninety-nine story accounts of his duties and interactions with multiple souls, God, Satan and countless others.
For example, in the proposition Cicero is Roman, it is unclear what semantic content the proper name Cicero provides to the proposition.
There are, in that sense, no general legal or "right" definitions, although during the 20th century, all terms acquired legal — yet also changing — definitions.
However, this list hides strong regional differences in France and the increasing number of foreign names among the French citizens.
This map (known as the "Rhodes map"), now held by the British Hydrographic Department, was used in 1840 by Sir James Clark Ross, who arrived with the Erebus and Terror in 1840.
Conversely, the "War of Southern Aggression" has been sometimes used to emphasize the Confederacy's status as the belligerent party, in particular the Confederacy starting the war by initiating combat at Fort Sumter.
Doug is a male personal name (or, depending on which definition of "personal name" one uses, part of a personal name).
In 2019, the Serbian Defense Minister, Aleksandar Vulin, sparked controversy by using the pejorative for Albanians.
Archaic humans The extinct archaic human species Homo luzonensis has been classified as a pygmy group.
The adjective Celtic, formed after French celtique, appears a little later, in the mid-17th century.
The remaining Druze population of the Golan Heights, occupied and administered by Israel in 1967, are considered permanent residents under Israel's Golan Heights Law of 1981.
Name changes For negative reasons Some place names are deemed to be offensive or unacceptable, often through historic semantic changes in what is tolerated.
Burton (born 1956), American politician Terry Bush (1943–2018), English professional footballer Terry Bussey (born 2006), American football player Terry Butcher (born 1958), English football manager and former player Terry Butler (disambiguation), several people Terry L.
In hadiths According to one Muslim tradition, 40 days before the death of a person approaches, God drops a leaf from a tree below the heavenly throne, on which Azrael reads the name of the person he must take with him.
McFarlane (1885–1960), American businessman and politician Arch McKirdy (1924–2013), Australian radio presenter and broadcasting executive Arch Merrill (1894–1974), American journalist and author Arch A.
(born 1999), son of the above; American current NBA player Holden Trent (1999–2024), American soccer player Horace M.
Other families which used these names as cognomina may have used the praenomen Mamercus at one time.
1832–1895), nursery nurse to Winston Churchill Elizabeth Everitt, recipient of the Albert Medal Elizabeth Falkner, American consulting chef Elizabeth Fee (1946–2018), medical historian Elizabeth A.
The name Samuel is popular amongst Black Africans, as well as among African Americans who follow Christianity and Islam alike.
Flicka was also one of a set of fictional identical triplets in Flicka, Ricka, Dicka, the English language translations of a series of Swedish children's books by Swedish author/illustrator Maj Lindman that were published from the 1930s to the 1960s in the Anglosphere.
The Eastern Roman, or Byzantine, Empire was known during the Middle Ages as the Roman Empire, or more commonly Romania (Ρωμανία in Greek; compare with the modern name Ρουμανία "Roumanía" for Romania).
1480–1528), German Anabaptist leader Balthazar Klossowski de Rola (1908–2001), birth name of twentieth-century artist Balthus Baltasar Lopes da Silva (1907–1989), Cape Verdean writer Balthazar P.
Notable bearers were: Ptahhotep, vizier of the 5th Dynasty, and purported author of The Maxims of Ptahhotep; Ptahhotep Desher, vizier of the 5th Dynasty; Ptahhotep (Djedkare) vizier of the 5th Dynasty, perhaps brother of the above; Ptahhotep Tjefi, vizier of the 5th Dynasty, grandson of Ptahhotep.
It was commonly used for boys as well as girls in the early twentieth century, after being made popular by the 1917 silent film starring Theda Bara.
According to the Social Security Administration, Chad first entered the top 1000 names for male children in the United States in 1945, when it was the 997th most popular name.
The shape of the land is less likely to be the explanation for the tribe's name in Caithness, and it does not explain that use of the term for the inland Midlands tribe at all.
The early application of the term included all of the non-Arab peoples with whom the Arabs had contact including Persians, Byzantine Greeks, Ethiopians, Armenians, Assyrians, Mandaeans, Jews, Georgians, Sabians, Copts, and Berbers.
Though no names are given in the Gospel of Matthew, this was one of the names the Western church settled on in the 8th century, based on the original meaning, though other names were used by Eastern churches.
Following the decline of Kievan Rus' in the 12th century, its territory fragmented into multiple polities.
1525 BC), pharaoh and founder of the eighteenth dynasty of Egypt Amasis II (or Ahmose II), (reigned c.
Use of the word Kartoffelfresser ("potato glutton") was popularised in the 1960s, when it was commonly used as a derogatory term to describe people of German descent.
Datuna may refer to: Datuna (village), a village in Dagestan, Russia Datuna Church, 10th century Georgian church in Russia As a given name: David Rakviashvili, former Secretary of the National Security Council of Georgia Prince David of Kakheti (c.
A letter, in which two of her servants, Pentawer and Pawekhed inquire about her health and wish her the blessings of Ptah, was found.
Paramount Pictures format for weekly produced shows is SSSSS-EEE, where S is a five-digit show number and E is a three-digit episode number.
Although now limited to specialized uses, the terms the Pasch or Pascha are sometimes used in Modern English.
More generally, Acropolis has been used to describe the upper part of a polis, often a citadel or the site of major temples.
or Ave, an abbreviation for Avenue (landscape) Ꜹ or AV from Latin aurum (avrvm), a numismatic abbreviation for "gold" A.V., the putative mark of ébéniste Adam Weisweiler Aviation, abbreviated Av in military use Andhra Vidyalaya College, aka A.
According to an article published in the German magazine Der Spiegel, the German football team was said to be segregated into self-appointed groups.
Sonnet XL of Sonnets from the Portuguese (1850) by Elizabeth Barrett Browning contains these lines: Musselmans and GiaoursThrow kerchiefs at a smile, and have no ruthFor any weeping.
The -i- (which is important in the phonetic evolution of *Campaniacum) suggests that Campanius is a gens name.
In some cases this leads to tautological toponyms, e.g., Ohio River, from Iroquoian "Ohio", 'Great River' plus "River".
The word gipsy/gypsy comes from the spellings which had lost the initial capital E, and that is one reason that it is often spelled with the initial g in lowercase.
Cade, American zoologist Fictional characters Jubal Cade, in a series of novels by Angus Wells Sam Cade, protagonist of Cade's County, an American television series starring Glenn Ford the title character of Gunner Cade, an American science fiction novel by Cyril M.
311), martyr, patron saint of florists Dorothea of Montau (1347–1394), Roman Catholic saint, hermitess and visionary Other people First name Dorotea Bucca (1360–1436), Italian physician Dorotea van Fornenbergh (fl.
Bohdan is a Slavic masculine name that appears in the Czech, Polish, Slovak and Ukrainian languages.
Lewis (1893–1968), American politician Louie McCarthy-Scarsbrook (born 1986), English rugby league footballer Louie Nelson (born 1951), American former National Basketball Association player Louie B.
The preposition is not used anymore in French, but remains still nowadays in other Langues d'oïl such as the Walloon language with dilé (close to) and adlé (among).
The various forms are based on the Greek (Ραμεσσυς: Ramessus), Latin (Ramesses), or Hebrew (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) forms of the name, all ultimately based on the Ancient Egyptian form: rˁ-ms-sw (𓅭𓇳) "Ra [is] the one who gave birth [to] him".
Under pressure from the European Americans, in the late 19th century the Nez Perce split into two groups: one side accepted the coerced relocation to a reservation and the other refused to give up their fertile land in Washington and Oregon.
While Michael is most often a masculine name, it is also given to women, such as the actresses Michael Michele and Michael Learned, and Michael Steele, the former bassist for the Bangles.
Đoka (Serbian Cyrillic: Ђока, also transliterated Djoka) is a Serbian nickname, a diminutive (and hypocorism) of Đorđe (George).
There are a number of place names that seem unusual to English speakers because they do not conform to standard English orthography rules.
To achieve this goal, it is committed to the publication of research and the development of research tools.
Italo-Normans were the primary Norman mercenaries in the employ of the Byzantine emperors, and many found service in Rome under the pope.
In later Byzantine usage, the terms Arbanitai and Albanoi, with a range of variants, were used interchangeably, while sometimes the same groups were also called by the classicising name Illyrians.
Pope Benedict XVI's Summorum Pontificum permitted, within certain limits for public use, the General Roman Calendar of 1960, which has October 24 as Raphael's feast day.
Libby as a feminine given name is typically a diminutive form of Elizabeth, which is less commonly spelled 'Libbie' or 'Libi'.
As a name, it has been preserved in the names of towns colonized in the 14th century by Bulgarians, in toponyms (Dealu Schiaului near Rășinari), hydronyms (Schiau River, tributary to the Argeş River), surnames (Schiau, Șchiau).
Moir (1907–2001) American floral designer, orchid breeder, botanical collector, and horticulturalist May Mourning Farris McKinney (1874-1959), American non-profit executive May Mikati (?–?), wife of Najib Mikati, Lebanese prime minister May W.
198 BC), Macedonian scribe, secretary to King Philip V of Macedon Apollodorus of Nicaea, mentioned by 6th century writer Stephanus of Byzantium Apollodorus Logisticus, ancient Greek mathematician Apollodorus Pyragrus, 1st century BC Sicilian mentioned by Cicero Apollodorus the Sicilian (fl.
Classical Greek and Roman theophoric names Certain names of classical gods are sometimes given as personal names.
(formerly Dog Is Dead) Trevor Cooper (born 1953), English actor Treverance Trev Faulk (born 1981), American former National Football League player Trevor McGrat, a contestant on the TV show Hell's Kitchen (U.S.
Text taken from Wikipedia articles in the respective language of each region (see each language for references).
1980s-present), English actor Matt Gunther (1963–1997), American actor and model Matt Hobby (born 1985), American actor and comedian Matt L.
Pre-modern era Ordered chronologically Religious figures Isidorus (2nd century AD), pagan Egyptian priest Isidore, son of Basilides, the Egyptian Christian Gnostic (2nd century AD) Isidore of Chios (died 251), Roman Christian martyr Isidore of Scetes (died c.
Air Force general Jonathan Samuel (1852/3–1917), British manufacturer and politician Joseph Samuel (c.
The earliest form of the word δῶρον is the Mycenaean Greek do-ra, meaning "gifts", written in Linear B syllabic script; the feminine form Theodora is also attested in Linear B as 𐀳𐀃𐀈𐀨, te-o-do-ra.
The Megleno-Romanians originally used the form rămâni, but it was not used until the 19th century and used the word Vlași borrowed from Bulgarian.
In the Yoruba language, the name can be broken down into two parts: "Ola" meaning (wealth or riches).
Thus, all the children of Ivan Volkov would be named "[first name] Ivanovich Volkov" if male, or "[first name] Ivanovna Volkova" if female (-ovich meaning "son of", -ovna meaning "daughter of", and -a usually being appended to the surnames of girls).
At all periods of Roman history, Marcus was the third-most popular praenomen, trailing only Lucius and Gaius.
People with this given name Maximilian II Emanuel, Elector of Bavaria (1662–1726) Billy Cobham, né William Emanuel Cobham Jr.
British academic Duncan Fishwick observes that the translation from the boustrophedon approach fails when applied to a ROTAS-form square; however, Belgian scholar Paul Grosjean reversed the boustrophedon rule on the ROTAS form (i.e.
A leading name could function as a sort of "moral property", where only those of the lineage had a right to use it and it was expected that nobody else would do so.
Les particularités nationales des étrangers vues par les guides touristiques maliens », in Mali - France : Regards sur une histoire partagée, GEMDEV et Université du Mali, Karthala, Paris ; Donniya, Bamako, 2005, p.
Standish, pen name of American novelist Gilbert Patten Burt Styler (1925–2011), American television and film screenwriter and producer Burt Sugarman (born 1939), American film and television producer Burt L.
French names The general French name for the Ojibwa is "Saulteur(s)", a translation of "Baawitigong".
(born 1988), Japanese singer May Kassab (born 1981), Egyptian artist May Maple (1914–2012), electrical engineer, president of the Women's Engineering Society May McAvoy (1899–1984), American actor May A.
Ann explanatory dictionary of toponyms of Azerbaijani origin on the territory of western Azerbaijan and Georgia was compiled by Azerbaijani scientists – G.
340–290 BC), New Comedy playwright Apollodorus of Lemnos, ancient Greek writer on agriculture Apollodorus of Tarsus, tragic poet Apollodorus of Telmessus, writer on dreams Apollodorus the Epicurean (fl.
late-16th century BC), daughter of Pharaoh Tao and probably Queen Ahhotep I Ahmose-Meritamon (17th dynasty) (fl.
Names could be passed on from the paternal or maternal side, often depending on which ancestors were more prominent.
In Indo-Iranian it actually means "one that pours into ponds", which derives from the name of the Sarasvati River of Rigveda.
In response to news coverage of this, national players İlkay Gündoğan and Lukas Podolski, active players in the German Football Association (DFB) until 2017, said that it was harmless teasing.
1919), Russian revolutionary and feminist activist Élisabeth Doineau (born 1961), French politician Elisabeth Domitien (c.
Cultural references Sadie Hawkins, a character in the Li'l Abner comic strip, was the inspiration for Sadie Hawkins Day and Sadie Hawkins dances, where traditional gender roles are flipped and young women ask men out.
In contemporary usage, it referred to German citizens, the word signifying people from the German Reich, i.e., Imperial Germany or Deutsches Reich, which was the official name of Germany between 1871 and 1949.
Wodehouse Gussie Carnegie, in Merrily We Roll Along (musical) by Stephen Sondheim See also Gussie Telfair, a merchant steamship built in 1862, formerly USS Gertrude Gus (disambiguation)
Fox Walt Lloyd, on the television series Lost Walt Longmire, on the television series Longmire Walt Stone, from the series The Kane Chronicles Walt Wallet, in the newspaper comic strip Gasoline Alley See also Van der Walt, a list of people with the surname
Such changes indicate that the older inhabitants who used the earlier name were displaced by newcomers, either leaving completely or becoming a small minority.
Accordingly: "territorial notions of 'Iran' are reflected in such terms as irānšahr, irānzamin, or Faris, the Arabicized form of Pārs/Fārs (Persia).
In practice, Gongsun Long had, then, identified linguistic deixis, displaying the logic like so: Chu person 楚人 = [Entity that is of Chu] ∩ [Entity that is a Person] This jianming (兼名) as it is called, could, then, be an identification of intersective adjectives as seen in modern semantics.
One notable exception is Ó Cuilleáin or O'Collins (from cuileann, 'holly') as in the holly tree, considered one of the most sacred objects of pre-Christian Celtic culture.
Halverson disputed the association of animal epithets with potency, noting that calling a timid person a mouse, or a person who does not face reality an ostrich, or a silly person a goose, does not mean that these names are potent, taboo, or sacred.
In the early 21st century, Elizabeth has been among the top 50 names given to girls in the past 10 years born in England and Wales, as well Canada and Australia, and has been in the top 100 most popular names given to baby girls born in Scotland and Ireland.
A word sketch database is a set of such triples or quintuples, which may be generated either by querying a corpus using corpus query language or by parsing the corpus using a natural language parser.
A notable example of deep semantic annotation is the Groningen Meaning Bank, developed at the University of Groningen and annotated using Discourse Representation Theory.
Through this "Hitler also, however, posits that this dignity is innate only to his own bloodline." Symbolic rebirth Wink and others identify symbolic rebirth rhetoric as allowing a people to aspire towards a new utopian society.
The annotation for each of the 77,430 words in the Quran was then reviewed in stages by two annotators, and improvements are still ongoing to further improve accuracy.
A possible disadvantage of this treatment is that the corpus can only be searched using specially written scripts.
Both arguments are defined as the smallest string that expresses the meaning of the utterances to be connected.
Hasan made a theoretical distinction between "relevant context" [aspects of context encapsulated in the text], and what she called in 1973 the 'material situational setting'.
Paul Anthony Chilton (born 21 October 1944) is a British cognitive linguist and discourse analyst known for his work on conceptual metaphor, cognitive stylistics, and political discourse.
Example For example, the phrase "Don't do that!", a locutionary act with distinct phonetic, syntactic and semantic features, which corresponds to meaning, is an utterance serving as warning to the listener to not do the thing they are currently doing or about to do.
Content The text sharply criticizes the increasing militarization of language in Germany’s security policy discourse.
Collapsing sequences can be used in other situations as well, such as when someone joins a discussion already in progress: Hi, John.
Meinhof is the author of Language Learning in the Age of Satellite Television, published by Oxford University Press.
van Dijk was a professor of discourse studies at the University of Amsterdam from 1968 until 2004, and since 1999 he has taught at the Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona.
The database, together with tools, is available under GNU GPL licensing at the Aix-MARSEC project site.
However, they note that this explanation is "very hand-wavy" and argue that a more formal explanation would be preferable.
1000 words) Southwest Paleohispanic script, 78 inscriptions, a few hundred words Lusitanian language, three monuments in Latin script, approx.
The LDC was founded in 1992 with a grant from the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), and is partly supported by grant IRI-9528587 from the Information and Intelligent Systems division of the National Science Foundation.
For example, negative politeness is the norm in some cultures (Japan and Britain) but not others that prefer positive politeness (Australia) and some cultures use politeness strategies when there is no face threat, such as the Japanese honorific system.
Wetherell, Margaret; Still, Arthur (1988), "Discourse analysis and the identification of interpretative repertoires", in Antaki, Charles (ed.), Analysing everyday explanation: a casebook of methods, London Newbury Park, California: SAGE, pp.
Poynton was a pioneer in the description of tenor and interpersonal meaning, which later became foundational to the development of the appraisal framework.
Pragmatique pour le discours littéraire, Paris, Bordas, 1990 (Portuguese (Brazil) translation: São Paulo, Martins Fontes, 1996; Romanian translation: Iasi, Institutul European, 2007).
Often a distinction is made between 'local' structures of discourse (such as relations among sentences, propositions, and turns) and 'global' structures, such as overall topics and the schematic organization of discourses and conversations.
It is suggested that such alignment could lead to an "ontologically sweetened" WordNet, meant to be conceptually more rigorous, cognitively transparent, and efficiently exploitable in several applications.
However, Speakers B and C are still taking a stance because they present information that shows their relation to the object.
geographical names or people) and partial syntantic information (which also allows for the visualization of dependency trees).
Loriot), needed to find answers to some fundamental errors in translating Quechua, in the Cuzco area of Peru.
This notion can be traced back to Saussure's dichotomy between signified and signifier and Hjelmslev's expression plane and content plane, but has been explicictly explored as a theoretical concept in stratificational linguistics and systemic functional linguistics.
At the beginning, a huge amount of text data is downloaded from the World Wide Web by the dedicated SpiderLing web crawler.
Among the most common are the phrase in a clause that the rest of the clause is understood to be about, a special position in a clause (often at the right or left-edge of the clause) where topics typically appear.
It is through the role of the author that the individual will distinguish what to write or not, what will go into his work within everything he says every day.
The Order of Things concludes with Foucault's explanation of why he did the forensic analysis: Let us, if we may, look for [representation] the previously existing law of that interplay in the painting of Las Meninas.
Two such projects were the Russian WordNet, patronized by Petersburg State University of Means of Communication and led by S.A.
In a society there are competing discourses (or narratives) regarding anything and everything such as feminism, racism, casteism, communalism, regionalism, economic development, democracy, governance, etc.
Textual metafunction The textual metafunction relates to mode; the internal organisation and communicative nature of a text.
Metaphor identification procedure (MIP) is a method for identifying metaphorically used words in discourse.
The overview of existing TenTen corpora can be found at https://www.sketchengine.co.uk/documentation/tenten-corpora/ Timestamped JSI web corpora – web corpora of news articles crawled from a list of RSS feeds.
Over time, many further corpora were produced (such as the British National Corpus and the LOB Corpus) and work had begun also on corpora of larger sizes and covering other languages than English.
Unlike other annotated Arabic corpora, the grammar framework adopted by the Quranic Corpus is the traditional Arabic grammar of i'rab (إﻋﺮﺍﺏ).
Eastern Europe Media stylistics as a research approach is widely known in Eastern Europe and especially in Russia, through the work of A.
The remedy proposed was to switch to the much simpler Affix Grammar over a Finite Lattice (AGFL) instead, in which metagrammars can only produce simple finite languages.
While Connor continues to use the term intercultural rhetoric, scholars outside the United States looking at specific language differences (e.g.
Hapax legomena are quite common, as predicted by Zipf's law, which states that the frequency of any word in a corpus is inversely proportional to its rank in the frequency table.
The research project is led by Kais Dukes at the University of Leeds, and is part of the Arabic language computing research group within the School of Computing, supervised by Eric Atwell.
The paper gathered data from sculptors, painters and artists on the basis that the three professions call for use of (and training in) spatial concepts.
A single text may belong to several regional subcorpora (if the author or translator was born, studied, or lived for a long time in different regions).
She was Director of the PhD Programme in Ideology and Discourse Analysis and co-director of the Centre for Theoretical Studies in the Humanities and the Social Sciences, both founded by Ernesto Laclau.
Honours and memberships Schegloff became a member of the Sociological Research Association in 1990 and was declared "Outstanding Scholar of the Year" by the Language and Social Interaction Division of the International Communication Association in 1995.
Education Chantal Mouffe studied at the Universities of Leuven, Paris and Essex and has worked in many universities throughout the world (in Europe, North America and Latin America).
Some corpus languages, such as Ancient Greek and Latin, left very large corpora and therefore can be fully reconstructed, even though some details of pronunciation may be unclear.
The advantage of publishing an annotated corpus is that other users can then perform experiments on the corpus (through corpus managers).
To meet this twofold aim, mediated stylistics has brought together the analytic toolkits of discursive psychology—which is finely attuned to the contextual specificities of interaction—and stylistics—which is finely attuned to the grammatical/rhetorical/narratorial specificities of texts as texts.
Tools such as the Perseus Digital Library and the Digital Corpus of Sanskrit have made it easier for researchers to access and analyze these texts.
Other languages have such limited corpora that some important words—e.g., some pronouns—are lacking in the corpora.
The Spoken English Corpus (SEC) is a speech corpus collection of recordings of spoken British English compiled during 1984–1987.
Corpus-based Studies in Language Use, Language Learning, and Language Documentation., Edited by John Newman, Harald Baayen and Sally Rice.
A qualitative review of the CBCA analyzed 37 studies, strong support for the tool was established as truth tellers obtained significantly higher CBCA scores compared to the liars.
The sociology of knowledge approach to discourse (SKAD) is a social science research programme for studying discourse developed by Reiner Keller in order to analyze knowledge relationships and conditions in society.
Also known as the Pareto–Zipf law, it is a power-law distribution on ranked data, named after the linguist George Kingsley Zipf, who suggested a simpler distribution called Zipf's law, and the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot, who subsequently generalized it.
The Google Books Ngram Viewer was developed in the hope of opening a new window to quantitative research in the humanities field, and the database contained 500 billion words from 5.2 million books publicly available from the very beginning.
From 1998 onwards he has worked at the Universities of Essex and Nottingham and at the Postgraduate Programme of the Department of Political Science and History of Panteion University.
The aim was to verify the grammars by making them parse corpora of text (corpus linguistics); hence, parsing had to be sufficiently practical.
Joyce uses the "Uncle Charles Principle" to represent two roles in the novel, that of its protagonist, Leopold Bloom, and that of the classic literary narrator.
The Greeks may need four words to cover all the meanings English-speakers have in mind when speaking of "love".
Joyce acknowledged having been inspired by the work Les Lauriers Sont Coupés by the French writer Édouard Dujardin.
People with alternative data imaginaries can challenge and reinterpret dominant ideas to promote their own understandings.
The display of affect or emotion, such as towards an answer to a question as negative or positive, or when reacting to something in a story, is often considered an affective stance.
And what makes a parent's request to a child to eat different from a directive, and different in turn from a threat?
The speaker of such a sentence may intend to exhibit a friendly attitude, but a listener might become irritated if they suppose the speaker's intention is snobbishly to impress them.
For example, the word "sat" can be represented as either the "sat"-th column of V {\displaystyle V} or the "sat"-th row of V ′ {\displaystyle V'} .
Different authors have used the concept of stance to refer to the interpretive framework that is at play in an interaction such as irony, or role-playing.
Recent projects include research on the English Noun Phrase, Subordination in Spoken and Written English, and the English Verb Phrase.
This contrasts with an idiom, where the meaning of the whole cannot be inferred from its parts, and may be completely unrelated.
However, the term first came into general use following the publication of a series of papers by Zellig Harris from 1952 reporting on work from which he developed transformational grammar in the late 1930s.
Discourse markers come from varied word classes, such as adverbs (well) or prepositional phrases (in fact).
In a later summary of his view, Laclau claims there is support for this broad sense of discourse in Saussure.
Religious references and historical memory are also instrumentalized to legitimize military actions.
English and Japanese and English and Spanish) consider this to be a loaded label and continue to use the term contrastive rhetoric for the distinctiveness the theory shows and for the freedom of using tools to assess and understand the field in a non-restrictive manner.
In Dialogue, Russian International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Bekasovo Katinskaya A., Sharoff S.
I do not mean something that is essentially restricted to the areas of speech and writing, but any complex of elements in which relations play the constitutive role.
Payack, the GLM describes its role as "a media analytics company that documents, analyzes and tracks cultural trends in language the world over, with a particular emphasis upon International and Global English".
A special kind of speech corpora are non-native speech databases that contain speech with a foreign accent.
She also edited a collection published by Czernin Verlag in 2024 on everyday antisemitism in Austria, and is co-authoring a monograph on crisis communication during the COVID-19 pandemic, forthcoming with Picus Verlag in 2026.
External links Nazi Language and Terminology at United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Index to the LTI (German) Selections from LTI by David Greenbaum
He belongs to the distinguished De Saussure family, which includes the pioneer of modern linguistics, Ferdinand de Saussure.
International Association for Discourse Studies The Discourse Attributes Analysis Program and Measures of the Referential Process Archived 2023-03-16 at the Wayback Machine.
Brill's tagger, one of the first and most widely used English POS taggers, employs rule-based algorithms.
Many of the contributions made to contrastive rhetoric from the late 1960s to the early 1990s have been ignored.
Plot an additional point corresponding to any of the other seven classic works on each line of the word classes.
This upper-ontology has been developed in light of rigorous ontological principles inspired by the philosophical tradition, with a clear orientation toward language and cognition.
The volume was later entitled "A Corpus of Formal British English Speech: The Lancaster/IBM Spoken English Corpus", and was first published by Longman in 1996, later by Routledge in 2013.
Macrostructures of discourse are distinguished from its microstructures, that is, the local structures of words, clauses, sentences or turns in conversation.
This includes thematic analysis of the two interview sets, the construction of transcripts for the event episodes, the construction of action hierarchy tables, as well as the interrogation of the interview data for trajectories of practice.
By understanding these three variables, the kind of language likely to be used in a particular setting can be predicted — and, Michael Halliday suggests, this is exactly what we do, unconsciously, as language users.
A precursor of the concept of metalocutionary function is found in the configurational function of intonation proposed by the Prague School of linguistics (e.g.
Bibliography Politics and Ideology in Marxist Theory (NLB, 1977) Laclau, Ernesto; Mouffe, Chantal (2001) [1985].
Casual: In-group friends and acquaintances; no background information provided; ellipsis and slang common; interruptions common.
As a consequence, the term conversation analysis has become something of a misnomer, but it has continued as a term for a distinctive and successful approach to the analysis of interactions.
He credits Luo for giving him a diachronic perspective and insights into a non-Indo-European language family.
Corpus linguistics and its statistical analyses can reveal (regularity of) patterns of co-occurrences within a language and enable the working out of typical collocations for its lexical items.
Since the 1980s his work in CDA focused especially on the study of the discursive reproduction of racism by what he calls the 'symbolic elites' (politicians, journalists, scholars, writers), the study of news in the press, and on the theories of ideology, context and knowledge.
It preserves the traditional approaches that use textual analysis, genre analysis, and corpus analysis, yet also introduces ethnographic approaches that examine language in interactions.
A prominent critic of deliberative democracy (especially in its Rawlsian and Habermasian versions), she is also known for her use of the work of Carl Schmitt, mainly his concept of "the political", in proposing a radicalization of modern democracy—what she calls "agonistic pluralism".
Contrastive analysis is the systematic study of a couple of languages with a view to identifying their structural differences and similarities.
Emanuel Abraham "Manny" Schegloff (July 24, 1937 – May 23, 2024) was an American sociologist and sociolinguist who was a distinguished professor of sociology at the University of California at Los Angeles.
representation freed, finally, from the relation that was impeding it, can offer itself as representation, in its pure form." Now he [Velázquez the painter] can be seen, caught in a moment of stillness, at the neutral centre of his oscillation.
Other levels of linguistic structured analysis are possible, including annotations for morphology, semantics and pragmatics.
His diary became a notebook in which he noted and commented on the linguistic relativity of the German used by Nazi officials, ordinary citizens, and even fellow Jews.
A unique feature of the thematic equative is its conveying of a meaning of exclusiveness in the rheme.
These two corpora comprise the largest collection of parsed and corrected, orthographically transcribed spoken English language data in the world, with over one million words of spoken English in this form.
An analysis of a text from the perspective of the ideational function involves inquiring into the choices in the grammatical system of "transitivity": that is, process types, participant types, circumstance types, combined with an analysis of the resources through which clauses are combined.
If the surplus is actively entered into the other's world, or the view from outside oneself is likewise engaged, the potential for new understanding comes into existence.
He worked with several great thinkers across disciplines (including: psychology, sociology, linguistics, anthropology) in order to establish his framework around Interactional sociolinguistics.
Whereas the joke normally is narrated as a vulgar series of actions followed by the clean punch line, Liebman narrates a very aristocratic series of actions followed by a very vulgar punch line.
Analysis might include statistical evaluations, optimisation of rule-bases or knowledge discovery methods.
Considering an underlying text corpus, a word sketch quintuple is a quintuple consisting of headword, grammatical relation, collocation, position of headword in the corpus, position of collocation in the corpus (e.g.
The Quranic Arabic Corpus (Arabic: المدونة القرآنية العربية, romanized: al-mudawwana al-Qurʾāni al-ʿArabiyya) is an annotated linguistic resource consisting of 77,430 words of Quranic Arabic.
For example, Placing only has an agent or cause, a theme—something that is placed—and the location where it is placed.
It was widely expanded from 1996 to today by Finnish-born, US-based applied linguist Ulla Connor, among others.
Search tools for parsed corpora typically depend on the annotation scheme that was applied to the corpus.
For example, the meaning of the phrase "the Queen" may be determined by the country in which it is spoken.
Her doctoral thesis, completed under the supervision of Ernesto Laclau, was entitled ‘Accounting for Apartheid: Its Emergence, Logic and Crisis’.
All languages have resources for construing experience (the ideational component), resources for enacting humans' diverse and complex social relations (the interpersonal component), and resources for enabling these two kinds of meanings to come together in coherent text (the textual function).
The company has been repeatedly criticized by linguists for promoting misinformation about language.
Projects such as BalkaNet and EuroWordNet made it feasible to create standalone wordnets linked to the original one.
In some languages, word order and other syntactic phenomena are determined largely by the topic–comment (theme–rheme) structure.
Relations to linguistic theories Interactional linguistics has connections to various linguistic approaches, such as discourse analysis and conversation analysis, and is used to investigate the relationship between grammatical structure and real-time interaction and language use.
The corpus of an ancient city, (for example the "Kültepe Texts" of Turkey), may go through a series of corpora, determined by their find site dates.
If there were only two word classes, this statement would be trivial: as one word class (say, nouns) decreases, the other (say, verbs) increases by exactly the corresponding amount.
This dates back to at least 1989, when Laclau wrote the introduction to Žižek's first book in English (The Sublime Object of Ideology).
Different from other existing corpora, LIVAC has adopted a rigorous and regular "Windows" approach in processing and filtering massive media texts from representative Chinese speech communities such as Beijing, Hong Kong, Macau, Taipei, Singapore, Shanghai, as well as Guangzhou, and Shenzhen.
Before the end of the eighteenth century, Man did not exist — any more than the potency of life, the fecundity of labour, or the historical density of language.
Classificatory Premise: For all x, if x possesses property F, then x can be classified as possessing property G.
ISBN 978-3-96110-225-9, doi:10.5281/zenodo.3735822 Open Access https://langsci-press.org/catalog/book/148.
The perlocutionary effect of an utterance is contrasted with the locutionary act, which is the act of producing the utterance (articulating/speaking), and with the illocutionary force, which does not depend on the utterance's effect on the interlocutor.
When a speaker describes an object in a way that expresses their attitude or relation to the object, the speaker is taking a stance.
The term metalocutionary act originated as metalocution (Gibbon 1976, 1983) in functional descriptions of intonation in English and German, by analogy with locution (locutionary act), illocution (illocutionary act) and perlocution (perlocutionary act) in speech act theory.
In the 18th century, the professional authority of the doctor was based upon his command of the organised medical knowledge of his time; in the 19th century, a doctor's authority derived from his command of the new, verifiable clinical medicine.
Finalization – An utterance must have a clear ending, and only occurs if the speaker has said everything they wish to say.
Justice Lee looked at 500 randomized sample sentences from the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) and found that the most common sense of "custody" was in the context of divorce rather than adoption.
Metadata is contained in structural attributes that relate to individual documents and paragraphs in the corpus.
A further key publication was Randolph Quirk's "Towards a description of English Usage" in 1960 in which he introduced the Survey of English Usage.
TenTen corpora data structure TenTen corpora follow a specific metadata structure that is common to all of them.
Through the "Uncle Charles Principle" the character (or his point of view) usurps inadvertently in certain places the function of the narrator, or, in other words, the narrator, in order to strengthen expressiveness, uses to tell his story turns that would only use the character.
An example is "conversational analysis" (CA), which was influenced by the sociologist Harold Garfinkel, the founder of ethnomethodology.
Rules and processing CLAWS uses a Hidden Markov model to determine the likelihood of sequences of words in anticipating each part-of-speech label.
ICE texts would contain spoken and written English in a balanced sample of one million words per component so that these samples could be compared in a wide variety of ways.
But when the sentence is read aloud, prosodic cues like pauses (dividing the sentence into chunks) and changes in intonation will reduce or remove the ambiguity.
The same proposition in an ordinary context—e.g., in a cafe with friends— would be truth, and its negation would be false.
In linguistics and discourse analysis, semantic macrostructures are the overall, global meanings of discourse, usually also described in terms of topic, gist, or upshot.
A group of scholars called Pragglejaz started the Pragglejaz procedure in 2007, and elaborated on a detailed method of identifying metaphors.
The Constituent Likelihood Automatic Word-tagging System (CLAWS) is a program that performs part-of-speech tagging.
Conversation analysis often treats the stance of one turn as making another display of a stance relevant, and reacting appropriately to a display of stance (such as matching the emotion) is said to achieve affiliation between the interactants.
Annotated, they have been used in corpus linguistics for statistical hypothesis testing, checking occurrences or validating linguistic rules within a specific language territory.
A corpus manager usually represents a complex tool that allows one to perform searches for language forms or sequences.
Before his death, Laclau was working on a book titled Elusive Universality, in which he sought to reconcile the tension between universalism and particularism by proposing that universality is always incomplete and constituted through the articulation of particular demands of subaltern groups.
Power is exercised through rules of exclusion (discourses) that determine what subjects people can discuss; when, where, and how a person may speak; and determines which persons are allowed to speak.
Multilingual corpora In the 1990s, many of the notable early successes on statistical methods in natural-language programming (NLP) occurred in the field of machine translation, due especially to work at IBM Research.
RST using rhetorical relations provides a systematic way for an analyst to analyze the underlying intention of a text.
Korpusomat - a tool for creating and searching electronic language corpora, created at the Institute of Computer Science of the Polish Academy of Sciences.
Versions 1.0 through 4.0 were sold exclusively by Oxford University Press, the current version 8.0 and previous versions are now also distributed by Lexical Analysis Software Limited.
The AHD took the innovative step of combining prescriptive elements (how language should be used) with descriptive information (how it actually is used).
She received a master's degree from the University of Johannesburg, and a MA and PhD from the Ideology and Discourse Analysis programme at the University of Essex.
He justifies the diversity of his corpora by claiming that discourse analysts must study any manifestation of discourse, instead of focusing only on conversation, media and other social areas such as politics, education, business, justice, the health system.
It is used to do hypothesis testing about languages, validating linguistic rules or the frequency distribution of words (n-grams) within languages.
A perlocutionary act is the act a speaker performs by saying something, namely the further effects an utterance has on an audience, such as persuading, discouraging, amusing, frightening, or getting someone to perform a certain action, whether those effects are intended or not.
Whitepaper presenting the 2012 edition of the Google Books Ngram Corpus External links Official website
The traditional method of performing collocation extraction is to find a formula based on the statistical quantities of those words to calculate a score associated to every word pairs.
Mnemosynum, presumably meaning a keepsake or aide-memoire, appears only in Poem 12 of Catullus's Carmina.
He processes digitized speech corpora (a large and coherent set of texts) with appropriate software for analysis, to study contrasts, namely Hyperbase created and developed by Étienne Brunet for CNRS - Nice University.
Quirk's corpus was the first modern corpus to be built with the purpose of representing the whole language.
In examining how context affects language use, linguists refer to the context-specific variety of language as a register.
Key words are calculated by carrying out a statistical test (e.g., loglinear or chi-squared) which compares the word frequencies in a text against their expected frequencies derived in a much larger corpus, which acts as a reference for general language use.
Beyond open access: open discourse, the next great equalizer, Retrovirology 2006, 3:55 Discourse (Lun) in the Chinese tradition
She found that while students consistently used formal forms of Japanese when talking to professors, professors would often switch between the formal and informal forms depending on the topic of conversation (Masuda 2016).
(eds.), Discourse theory and practice: a reader, D843 Course: Discourse Analysis, London Thousand Oaks California: SAGE in association with the Open University, pp.
Aristotle Aristotle distinguished between five virtues of thought: technê, epistêmê, phronêsis, sophia, and nous, with techne translating as "craft" or "art" and episteme as "knowledge".
Critical contrastive rhetoric explores issues such as critical thinking in teaching situations that challenge essentialism.
Systemic errors like the confusion of s and f in pre-19th century texts (due to the use of ſ, the long s, which is similar in appearance to f) can cause systemic bias.
SKELL A free web service based on Sketch Engine and aimed at language learners and teachers is SKELL (formerly SkELL).
Each of these has various sub-systems; for example, 'attitude' includes 'affect' (expression of emotion), 'appreciation' (evaluation of things/entities), and 'judgement' (evaluation of people and their behaviour), with different choices within these sub-systems.
Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index.
Halliday and Hasan considered exophoric reference as not cohesive, since it does not tie two elements together into in text.
They may also rely on non-verbal cues: for instance, fieldwork on Jordanian shops and streets describes vendors using music, scents and other environmental signals, alongside verbal formulas, to attract customers and invite purchases without issuing explicit commands.
However, some contemporary researchers have noted that humor is complex and not all jokes can be considered polite.
"Becoming depressed at work: A study of worker narratives." Journal of Workplace Behavioral Health 27.3.
Analysis of these restrictions can lead to discoveries about the structure and development of a language.
Wallis and Nelson (2001) first introduced what they called the 3A perspective: Annotation, Abstraction and Analysis.
The influence of context parameters on language use or discourse is usually studied in terms of language variation, style or register (see Stylistics).
A second edition was published in 1994, and then a third, in which he collaborated with Christian Matthiessen, in 2004.
This corpus was created by crawling the online news articles from the Hamshahri's website and processing the HTML pages to create a standard text corpus for modern information retrieval experiments.
top2vec Another extension of word2vec is top2vec, which leverages both document and word embeddings to estimate distributed representations of topics.
"Reading the Riot Act: Rhetoric, Psychology, and Counter-Revolutionary Discourse in Shays's Rebellion, 1786–1787".
Halliday argues that linguists must take both into account: "For a linguist, to describe language without accounting for text is sterile; to describe text without relating it to the system is vacuous".
Another example can be found in formulaic sequences such as "as stated previously" or "the aforementioned".
Tag questions are also a part of non-fluency features; these are used by the speaker to check if the listener understands what the speaker is saying.
"An essential rephrasing of the Zipf–Mandelbrot law to solve authorship attribution applications by Gaussian statistics".
it is precisely in the process of living interaction with this specific environment that the word may be individualized and given stylistic shape." There is, effectively, no such thing as the monad.
The popularity of his ideas among contemporaries gave rise to what was known as the 'London School' of linguistics.
Foucault's application of the analyses shows the structural parallels in the similar developments in perception that occurred in researchers' ways of seeing the subject in the human sciences.
Words which are semantically similar should influence these probabilities in similar ways, because semantically similar words should be used in similar contexts.
A former Moroccan soldier, M'barek Daoudi, who served more than 33 years in the Moroccan army and retired in 2008, said in an interview that he witnessed the execution of two Sahrawi women in the Amgala area on 12 February 1976.
Conflicts In 1735 and 1736, at the start of the salmon season, there were again insults thrown and mass struggles between the fishermen of Neudorf, Hüningen and Kleinhüningen.
During the meeting, the Ethiopian camp was flown over by Italian reconnaissance aircraft which made some low-flying flights for intimidating purposes.
Iptihar Abduresit The Congress also maintains representatives in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Kyrgyzstan, Japan, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
The Miss Stone Affair (Bulgarian: Афера „Мис Стоун“, Macedonian: „Афера Мис Стон“) was the kidnapping of American Protestant missionary Ellen Maria Stone and her pregnant Bulgarian fellow missionary and friend Katerina Cilka by the pro-Bulgarian Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization.
Part 7 was succeeded by the Terrorism (Northern Ireland) Act 2006, which in turn was succeeded by the Justice and Security (Northern Ireland) Act 2007.
Three Stars There is three stars on top of the emblem which represent three independent states which existed in or throughout the East Turkestan territory.
Dissenting Opinions Vice-President Badawi, Judge Klaestad (with Judge ad hoc Fernandes), and Indian Judge ad hoc M.
An area of 544 square kilometers (210 sq mi) was affected, including all or part of the German border districts of Bitburg, Our, Saarburg, and Prüm, the population of which was 31,188 people.
… [W]hen the Dancing Molly got safely out the group of Virginians chivalrously gave three cheers for the pirate's wife and daughters.
Per Roosevelt's request, Universal Pictures edited the sequence out of its newsreels to quell a political crisis.
Radio Prague, 4 October 2004 Souboj nad Železnou oponou (Duel Above The Iron Curtain), 2000 article by Tomáš Soušek (in Czech) 23 March 1953 article from Life Magazine, pages 29 – 31, (via Google Books)
Fourteen policemen died at the scene and two died on the way to the hospital; another 16 policemen were hurt, Xinhua state news agency reported.
Casualties and aftermath The retreat of the Polisario forces was met with fierce resistance from Mauritanian troops, particularly near the settlement of Bennichab on June 9.
The fishermen pursued the boat, attacked it with stones, and finally set two fishermen to stand guard with spears while the others robbed the Antelope party.
Two bodies were recovered, thirteen more persons were declared missing and presumed dead several days later.
Prelude After the end of the Second World War, the United States created military bases in West Germany, and their military planes often flew over the territory of Czechoslovakia.
In a February 2025 poll of 871 registered voters in Florida who were active by the University of North Florida found that 58% of overall respondents opposed renaming the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America, 31% supported it, 10% said they were not sure and 1% refused to answer the question.
A US intelligence monitoring group stated that the ETIM planned to carry out terrorist attacks during the week before the opening ceremonies of the Olympic games.
Police investigators reported that they had recovered documents calling for a holy war, a homemade firearm, and nine explosives, whose design was similar to the explosives found in a raid on an ETIM facility in January 2007.
At this moment, the two forces engaged each other with heavy gunfire, and the Cypriots opened fire on the Egyptian C-130H aircraft with a 106 mm anti-tank M40 recoilless rifle, striking it in the nose and killing the three crew on board.
Criticism expressed that Bildt did not put sufficient pressure on the Ethiopian government to release Schibbye and Persson.
Dredging by Nicaragua within the San Juan River itself was allowed to continue, as Nicaragua has sovereignty over the river proper.
Anderson documents a fourth account by a Virginian deserter, named Denis Kaninguen, and speculates that Kaninguen was one of Tanacharison's followers.
It subsequently split into the modern states of Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, North Macedonia and Montenegro between 1991 and 2006.
Though America and China were allies, skirmishes between armed Chinese and foreigners became more and more common and would continue long after World War I.
With the transformation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia into Serbia and Montenegro and the dissolution of that country in 2006, Serbia is considered its legal successor.
20th century Since then, the Chams rebelled a number of times against Vietnamese domination, with the most important rebellions occurring in the 19th century with the Katip Sumat uprising, the first and only jihadist war in Vietnamese history to date, and the Ja Thak Wa uprising.
Two other Croatian-Australian members of the HRB had been recruited for the Bugojno incursion but police action prevented their participation.
Many scholars maintain that Ming China (1364–1644) possessed no administrative control in Tibet, while some scholars indicated that Imperial Chinese superiority continued after Yuan and lasted until Qing.
The Court held that there is no source of international law that explicitly authorises or prohibits the threat or use of nuclear weapons but such threat or use must be in conformity with the UN Charter and principles of international humanitarian law.
Background to Conflict, Barnes & Noble Books (ISBN 0-389-20148-0) Diego Aguirre, Jose Ramón (1991), Guerra en el Sáhara, Ed.
The Young Kashgar Party (Chinese: 青年喀什噶爾黨) was a Turkic nationalist Uighur political party which existed from 1933 to 1934.
WTO dispute resolution favored Canada, both in a 1997 panel decision and in a subsequent decision by the WTO Appellate Body.
It is marked by the Philippines publicizing of altercations involving China and Filipinos including fishermen and personnel of coast guard and the navy.
UK and NI government discussions about name change Ahead of the renaming of the Irish Free State to simply Ireland in 1937, the British Prime Minister and the Home Secretary discussed the matter with the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, Lord Craigavon when he was in London in July 1937.
16257, issued in 2013 for more than €1.5 billion, which ordered Congo to pay for public works contracts dating back to the 1980s.
Settlement On 16 February 2026, four Chagossians (including Misley Mandarin, acting as self-declared First Minister of a Chagossian Government-in-Exile) landed on Île du Coin, becoming the first Chagossians to reside on the islands since the expulsions of the 1960s and 1970s.
The Chechens suffered another heavy defeat, and Gelayev decided to lead his men to take shelter in the Pankisi Gorge, 25 miles south of the Russian-Georgian border.
See also List of International Court of Justice cases References External links Case concerning the Application of the Convention of 1902 governing the Guardianship of Infants (Netherlands v.
On October 1, 1955, Chinese Communist Party Chairman Mao Zedong designated Xinjiang a "Uyghur Autonomous Region", creating a regionwide Uyghur identity which overtook Uyghurs' traditionally local and oasis-based identities.
The declaration became an issue when the question was raised whether the statement was binding on Norway.
Renaming in English Change in official English spelling The renaming of cities is often specifically from English to Indian English in connection with that dialect's internal reforms.
The official title of the case was Australia — Measures Affecting Importation of Salmon, Dispute DS18.
The Association of Catfish Farmers of America represented these American domestic producers to file lawsuits against the mass imports of Vietnamese catfish starting in 2001.
response The US responded by activating Task Force 71 (TF-71) to protect future flights over those international waters.
By this time, the fighters were running out of fuel and, as the defence system dictated, started to land at the nearest available airfield.
Most Spanish language placenames in the Falkland Islands are quite different in origin from their English language equivalents, and many have religious resonances.
With dusk approaching the Marines began to withdraw and again came under fire from the VC, the Marines then called in an artillery and mortar barrage and four 105mm shells and 21 81mm mortar rounds hit the VC positions.
Rebiya Kadeer, a Uyghur human rights activist, called for an independent UN investigation into the raid, while Alim Seytoff, executive chairman of the World Uighur Congress, claimed the Chinese government has yet to produce evidence to substantiate the camp's connections to terrorism.
In mid-April 1949, Belgium surprisingly waived any interest in most of the previously claimed areas.
In 1941, the government published a German edition of Finnlands Lebensraum, a book supporting the idea of Greater Finland, with the intention of annexing Eastern Karelia and Ingria.
The kidnapping was successful, but was witnessed by Dikko's secretary, who notified the authorities.
Frederick Steinbeck, suffering of his gunshot wounds, remained immobile, and shortly died from his wounds.
Facts In 1987–1988, the United States destroyed three offshore oil platforms owned by the National Iranian Oil Company as a part of Operation Praying Mantis in retaliation for the collision of the USS Samuel B.
He announced that Guinea’s “deepest desire [was] to remain in the franc zone,” with freedom of capital movement between the two countries.
The phrase "peace, order and good government", they thought, should be understood as referring not just to the inhabitants of BIOT but to the governance of the region.
The United States would play a significant role in Japan's acceptance of a global moratorium on commercial whaling due to its domestic laws.
The British government responded by sending HMS Endurance with 22 Royal Marines to expel the Argentines, but they were held off to avoid increasing the tension.
See also First East Turkestan Republic Second East Turkestan Republic Timur Beg Young Bukharians Young Khivans Young Turks == References ==
The United Kingdom claimed that Jersey had historically exercised legal and administrative jurisdiction over them.
The wall was built in six stages, and the area behind the wall was expanded from a small area near Morocco in the north to most of the western and central part of the country gradually.
However, the actual control of Morocco covers only about 80% of Western Sahara, the portion west of the Berm wall.
Sir Julian Pauncefote, the British ambassador at Washington, having failed to obtain an assurance that British vessels would not be interfered with, laid a formal protest before the United States government.
It has been called the "Jacuzzi of Despair" because it is warmer at 18 °C (65 °F) compared to the surrounding water at 4 °C (39 °F).
The Moroccan Army's 6th Motorized Infantry Regiment, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Mohamed Ghoujdami, was called in as reinforcements but did not arrive until after the cessation of hostilities.
Protests broke out in Shanghai, which ultimately forced the Chinese government to make an apology and pay $25,000 to the United States.
In December 2015, Ecuador stated that it had reached a deal with Sweden which would allow him to be interviewed in the embassy.
Before, the exact route of the barrier had not been determined, and it had been alleged by opponents that the barrier route would encircle the Samarian highlands of the West Bank, separating them from the Jordan valley.
History According to its former members, the Uyghurstan People's Party was founded in or a few years before 1967 or 1968.
He was then dismissed from university but completed his physics degree via independent study, and went on to receive a master's degree in Politics and Sociology from Gazi University in Turkey and a degree in Computer Science in Munich, Germany.
All of these rebellions were eventually suppressed by the Vietnamese government, and the Cham population was significantly reduced.
Marines had been working to disarm illegal checkpoints set up by KLA fighters who were slow to comply with the demilitarization agreement.
Incidents The incidents embraced two regions in Nagorno-Karabakh (Tartar Rayon, Agdam Rayon) and one region out of it (Goranboy Rayon).
However, proper documentation that would have ensured that the cargo could not be inspected was not provided.
A large number of dual names have been conferred not by the NZGB, but were negotiated as part of Treaty of Waitangi claims settlements and then enacted by Parliament.
In 2021, the New Zealand Geographic Board voted to standardise the orthography of dual place names, and is in the process of updating names which use parentheses to the more common forward slash.
The Court's decision reflects a growing reliance on international law to confront the climate crisis, alongside similar proceedings at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.
Under the agreement, Morocco annexed the northern two-thirds of Western Sahara as its Southern Provinces, and Mauritania annexed the southern third as Tiris al-Gharbiyya.
On this issue, the court found that "the civilian population affected by the present conflict is extremely vulnerable.
Uyghur linguist Ibrahim Muti'i opposed the Second East Turkestan Republic and the Ili Rebellion because it was backed by the Soviets and Stalin.
Former ETR education minister Seypidin Azizi and former ETNA officer Batur Asharkhinov, both speaking in retrospect decades after the ETR's dissolution, gave conflicting eyewitness accounts of the colour of the star and crescent.
The report also noted that "Russian claims the missile had been fired by Ukrainian soldiers and that a Ukrainian fighter jet had been flying close to the passenger jet were false".
The Viking was on a scheduled commercial flight from London via Hamburg to RAF Gatow in the British Sector of Berlin.
The Jean Baptiste Say was hit several times by cannon fire and the captain was forced to ground her on Laem Lamphu Rai.
More than 2,000 people were forcefully relocated to Mauritius between 1967 and 1973, so that Diego Garcia could become a United States military airbase.
Many Chinese geographical entities (and associated entities named after geographical names) thus had their English names changed.
Six Moroccan observation posts or bases were taken by the Polisario, the Moroccan soldiers were surprised, but the attack was finally repulsed and the Polisario suffered heavy losses because of the Moroccan air force.
Duterte previously insisted that publicizing China's actions would provoke it to be more aggressive.
As of 2011, the Section 44 powers effectively no longer exist (see above), and police must "reasonably" suspect an individual of involvement in terrorism before intervening.
Accordingly, at 15:00 Armenian troops allegedly opened fire from Agdam Rayon, killing one Azeri soldier.
Reception, awards and festival screenings Stealing a Nation was awarded the 2004 Royal Television Society Award in the category "Single Documentary - General".
The Arabic word Shaṭṭ (شط) meaning delta, could also be an etymology of Chittagong, the Ganges delta, Shaṭṭ Al-Ghānj (شط الغانج).
The Morrison incident (モリソン号事件, Morison-gō Jiken) of 1837 occurred when the American merchant ship Morrison, headed by Charles W.
The T-33 air incident was just one of at least eight that occurred between Albania and foreign powers from 1948 to the late 1970s.
Travellers can cross the Malaysia–Singapore border for the purposes of family, business, and recreational trips.
The examination and identification of the bodies was conducted at the Netherlands Army medical regiment training facility in Hilversum and was coordinated by a Dutch forensic team.
The document included information on crimes committed against Serbs in Gospić, Sisak, Pakrac, Karlovac, Osijek, Paulin Dvor and during the operations Operation Flash, Operation Storm and Operation Medak Pocket.
Former militant leader François Sargentini claimed that Aleria deepened the division between autonomists and independentists and communist activist Dominique Bucchini said that the incident "worked like a trap", diverting efforts and highlighting excesses, like xenophobia.
Febiger, in order to visit the scene of the wreck and to try (unsuccessfully) to get foreign officials in Taiwanfu (Taiwan's capital), where he arrived on 18 April) to act.
Unanimously, related environmental treaties such as the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and the Convention to Combat Desertification also impose relevant obligations to protect the climate.
Abu Hafs al-Urduni (1973–2006), third Emir of the Mujahideen in Chechnya, was likely the "Abu Hafsi" reported to have been "running financial operations in the gorge," and to have supervised the building of a hospital for fighters, but to have escaped to Chechnya before being apprehended.
2nd General Assembly From 24 to 27 November 2008, the World Uyghur Congress has successfully held its Second Assembly in Munich, Germany.
Under the JCPOA, some of the sanctions against Iran were lifted in exchange for Tehran accepting some limitations on its nuclear program.
Earle, accompanied by Clarence Miller, met with Zaragoza who apologized, explaining his men were "evidently ignorant of the first laws of war." Within an hour of their arrest, the whaleboat had returned to Dolphin.
According to the Prime Minister of Lebanon, Najib Mikati, the soldier will be prosecuted by the Defense Ministry for his actions.
After several warnings, four of the activists were arrested by the Spanish regulars who guard the territory, three of the assailants managed to escape to Moroccan territory.
During the battle, two UNIFIL peacekeepers were killed: Stephen Griffin, a 21-year-old private from the 46th Irish Battalion (and a native of Rahoon in County Galway), and Sevati Sovonaivalu of the Fijian Army.
Eventually, the hunters who were involved in the fight were told to report to Flagstaff for a hearing in court, which they refused to do at first.
Judgment On 1 July 1952 the ICJ ruled that it had no jurisdiction in the issue of Mr Ambatielos' trial, but had jurisdiction to decide whether or not the UK is obliged to enter into an arbitration process under the Greco-British Treaty of Commerce and Navigation.
The school had had an obligation to report the allegations to the police prior to arranging her departure.
The Attack on Lebouirate was a significant military engagement that took place during the ongoing Western Sahara conflict between the Moroccan government and the Polisario Front.
11 February: The SPLA stated it had launched bombardments on Moroccan positions located in the Grarat Alfarsik and Udey Damràn regions, in the Mahbes sector.
In the book he explained that the American flag had been fired upon by a foreign government and that the next contacts with Japan "had better be left to the stronger and wiser action of the American Government".
There were two major issues under Article 36 that were being disputed by the two parties: the question of the nationalities of the individuals being executed as well as the meaning of the phrase "without delay".
See also East Turkestan independence movement East Turkestan Liberation Organization 2008 Uyghur unrest Politics of the People's Republic of China == References ==
A checkpoint was set up by the Gardaí and the Irish Army on Flagstaff Road in the townland of Cornamucklagh, some 700 metres inside County Louth in the Republic.
The raid also resulted in the death of one Chinese paramilitary officer, Huang Qiang, age 21, and the injury of another officer.
At least two shots from fortress hit the Inconstant, but more effective action was prevented by a lack of training at the fort.
Marine Corps Sergeant Onnie Clem later reported: "Up on the bridge there was a machine gun spraying the hatch.
Muslim ethnic groups in different regions are treated differently by the Chinese government with regard to religious freedom.
Murphy's bombs were responsible for at least a few deaths on the Mexican side of the border, but nobody was killed on the American side.
Geography The Gulf of Mexico's eastern, northern, and northwestern shores lie along the US states of Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas.
In March 2025, the foreign ministers of the G7 countries issued a condemnation of China's "illicit, provocative, coercive and dangerous actions" and formally supported the results of the 2016 South China Sea Arbitration ruling that favored the Philippines.
In May she stood guard off Pointe a Pitre, Guadeloupe, trying to keep the Vichy French government from getting Jeanne d'Arc to sea.
This financial crisis was discussed at the meeting of the leadership of IMRO in Kyustendil, Bulgaria, that summer.
Activists distributing leaflets often faced resistance and attacks from unknown persons, private security or police officers.
Surprisingly, there were also "anti-aircraft ramps," although these were not utilized during the raid.
The court explained that Article IX applied because Russia and Ukraine had a dispute over whether genocide is occurring in Donetsk and Luhansk.
The resulting emissions and activity would be recorded by Project Ibex aircraft on the Iranian side of the border.
Event Dubbed "Grand Slam", the flight was to leave the base in Peshawar and overfly the Soviet Union.
Prior to travelling to Korea, the ship's crew purchased stocks of cotton textiles, tinware, mirrors and glassware from British trading firm Messrs.
The court found that in the 1971 ordinance, the Commissioner had exceeded his authority, and the ordinance was made ultra vires.
Curran was released on January 11, 1958, while the plane was placed in the Gjirokastër Fortress museum.
This refusal led to the ILO's supervisory functions, in particular the Committee of Experts, ceasing to operate properly for more than a decade.
The communications that this activity generated within the National Security network were monitored by the EC-121's parent unit, VQ-1, which sent Deep Sea 129 a "Condition 3" alert by radio at 13:44, indicating it might be under attack.
While they had both lived in the United States since they were four and five, respectively, neither had obtained U.S.
An article from the Geopolitical Monitor argues that Malaysia's recent behavior could be a sign for the beginning of a foreign policy shift, in which Malaysia has shifted from appeasement politics to a non-alignment policy when dealing with China.
However, the Greek Justice Minister refused to grant the required permission to enforce the judgment in Greece.
See also Sahrawi refugees References Further reading Hodges, Tony (1983), Western Sahara: The Roots of a Desert War, Lawrence Hill Books (ISBN 0-88208-152-7) Thompson, Virginia and Adloff, Richard (1980), The Western Saharans.
The 2011 Incheon fishing incident occurred on December 12, 2011, at the island Socheongdo in Incheon, South Korea.
The Moroccan government’s Green March took place on 6 November 1975, in which 350,000 unarmed Moroccans converged on the city of Tarfaya in southern Morocco and waited for a signal from King Hassan II of Morocco to cross the border in a peaceful march.
Two unidentified vessels then arrived in the area, apparently to rescue the disabled Taiwanese vessel, prompting MCS-3001 to disengage and leave.
The Kyrgyz rebels, led by Id Mirab, revolted in the Tian Shan mountains as part of the wider Kumul Rebellion in Xinjiang, until they were quickly defeated by government forces led by Ma Shaowu, the Hui military commander of Kashgar, with some minor assistance of the Soviet Union.
On 12 February 1976 the Moroccan army occupied Al Mahbes, a community 50 kilometres (31 mi) from the Algerian border that commanded the route to Tindouf.
The bombing, although unintentional, is noted for being the first aerial bombardment of the continental United States by a foreign power in history.
The implications of the ruling are that it shows that the US and European Union have used loopholes and creative accounting to continue dumping products on developing markets, hurting impoverished developing country farmers.
According to some accounts, on November 6, Montgomery was caught trying to steal some ponies from a group of Navajo hunters so three of the natives assaulted him in the usual manner.
Pakistan's claims were dropped, without recourse to appeal, and the outcome was seen as a decision highly favourable to India.
Relations with Angola During the movement for Angolan independence in the 1960s, the situation became more complex.
Strategy The transparency initiative seeks to frame China as a "bully" of its smaller neighboring countries in the context of the South China Sea dispute.
Under the Ming tributary system, Japan could present tribute to the Chinese imperial court and be rewarded in the form of gifts by the emperor.
The Pakistani government alleges that he is a spy for the Research and Analysis Wing, India's intelligence agency, and was arrested in the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
On 27 December 2011, a court in Ethiopia sentenced the Swedish journalists to 11 years in prison on charges of supporting terrorism after they illegally entered the country with Somalis.
L5 followed suit and both submarines dispatched a boat with one officer and one sailor each to go aboard the burning Irene.
They have been described as well organized, experienced and as having an important role in offensives against President Bashar al-Assad's forces in Syria's northern regions.
The Lobster War (also known as the Lobster Operation; Portuguese: Guerra da Lagosta; French: Conflit de la langouste) was a dispute over spiny lobsters that occurred from 1961 to 1963 between Brazil and France.
The al-Hamma Incident (Hebrew: תקרית אל-חמה) refers to an event on 4 April 1951 that resulted in the death of seven IDF soldiers at the hands of Syrian military forces.
Vietnam War Student North Vietnamese MiG pilots were sent to China and the Soviet Union for up to three years for training.
The Israeli version was that Syrian troops had entered Al-Hamma and disarmed the local police before firing on the Israeli police.
In June, 1817, Gregor MacGregor, a Scottish adventurer styling himself the "Brigadier General of the United Provinces of New Granada and Venezuela, and General-in-Chief of the Armies of the Two Floridas", came to Amelia Island.
The former master of the captured Texan ship Colombia was on board the Montezuma throughout the incident and he claimed that the Mexicans opened fire after the Ingham discharged a lee gun as a signal to communicate.
All I had was a loincloth." 15 or 20 others were recaptured and taken aboard one of the torpedo boats, where they were executed by firing squad as punishment for trying to escape.
According to the survey, 30% did not know, 28% of Israelis opposed any annexation and 15% supported annexing Area C alone.
The ministerial appointees include two persons recommended by the Minister of Māori Development and representatives of Te Rūnanga o Ngāi Tahu, the New Zealand Geographical Society, the Federated Mountain Clubs of NZ, and Local Government New Zealand.
After the withdrawal of Yugoslav troops, KFOR was tasked with ensuring security, facilitating the return of refugees, and preventing reprisals between ethnic Serbs and Albanians.
That was codified by administrative order in September 2012, which mandated use of that term by departments, subdivisions, agencies and instrumentalities of the Philippine government.
Swedish authorities overrode the Dutch decisions and placed the child under a protective public care order, based on the fact that Marie was residing in Sweden with maternal grandparents.
Equipment Airbases involved were operated jointly by the CIA and IIAF and protected by land mines and razor wire.
See also United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon Israel–Hezbollah conflict (2023–present) 2026 Lebanon war References == External links ==
Pavlović was released from prison in 1990 and was killed in controversial circumstances during the Croatian War of Independence on 18 September 1991.
With him arrived another prominent Uyghur leader Mahmut Muhiti from eastern Xinjiang (Turpan, Kumul) who had agreed to become Minister of Defense in the TIRET Government, accepting the offer of Prime Minister Sabit Damolla.
Notes and references Books Affairs, United States Congress House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on International Security and Scientific (1980).
In 1916, in the midst of the National Protection War, Mongol prince Babojab launched an attempt for Manchu and Mongol independence.
Furthermore, the statement also called all parties to maintain peace, stability and trade in accordance with the UNCLOS declarations, which means that Malaysia will continue the diplomatic approach with other states, including China.
The Air battle over Merklín was an air-to-air engagement between Czechoslovak and USAFE air units over the Czech village of Merklín, in the Bohemian Forest, on 10 March 1953.
Background This battle followed the first battle of Amgala, which pitted the Moroccan army against the Algerian army for the first time from 27 to 29 January 1976.
After the opinion on preliminary matters was handed down, Nauru and Australia negotiated a settlement.
beef." "We are hopeful that Japan’s decision will help lead other markets around the world toward science-based policies," Perdue added.
After that groundwater levels on many places reached pre-reservoir filling levels, on some places reached even higher.
Incident Seven Chinese fishing boats were spotted by a patrol boat from the South Korea Coast Guard.
In addition to offering a right of return for the Sahrawi refugees, the Sahrawi government in exile expressed a willingness to grant Sahrawi citizenship to Moroccan settlers and their descendants in a prospective independent state.
The National Army was inactive in Kashgar and Aksu from 1946 to 1949 until the arrival of People's Liberation Army (PLA) units in Xinjiang.
It called on both States to negotiate in good faith to complete the objectives of the 1977 Budapest Treaty, which the Court declared was still in force, while taking account of the factual situation that had developed since 1989.
Thus, highlighting the Philippines' attempt to offset the disparity in capabilities it has compared to China.
In 2022, UHRP supported the Uyghur Policy Act, which would have created a special coordinator for Uyghur Issues at the U.S.
It remains the only case in which a Convention drafted by the Hague Conference on Private International Law was the principal subject of interpretation by a court with worldwide jurisdiction.
The reparation should thereby consist of a restitution in kind, or if this is impossible, the payment of a sum that corresponds to the value as compensation.
Brazil claimed that lobsters are like oysters in that they cling to the bottom of the ocean and so were part of the continental shelf.
While Pakistan said that the plane was unarmed and the debris was within Pakistani territory, India maintained that warnings had been given to the Atlantic and that its flight trajectory meant it could have fallen on either side of the border.
The Esmeralda's captain was ordered to stop by any means an eventual annexation of Panama by the United States.
Facts A Greek shipowner, Nicolas Eustache Ambatielos, had commissioned nine ships at an agreed price and delivery date from the British government.
In this proposal, known as the Agreement of Benicàssim (Acord de Benicàssim), both the left-wing and right-wing parties reached a consensus regarding the symbols of the territory and soon-to-be autonomous community of Spain.
Following the fall of South Vietnam and intensifying persecution, many Chams resettled in the United States and sought to revive and protect the Cham culture while dealing with a much larger and more populous Vietnamese American community that was not fond of Champa's independence movement either.
Due to the blockade, Captain Downes was afraid his ship would be seized as it was illegally carrying over a million dollars in Spanish gold, something Cochrane's spies had informed him of some time prior.
Upon reaching the Sabine River, Jones patrolled the area for a few days for slavers before crossing into Mexican waters disguised as a merchantman.
This led initially to a relatively rapid fall in the lake level over hundreds of years to then continue falling at a lower pace.
In the last two decades of the 20th century, Uyghurs in Turpan were treated favourably by China with regard to religion; while Kashgar and Hotan were subject to more stringent government control.
As to the alleged violation of the Treaty of the Uruguay River, Uruguay's legal defense team asserted that discussions over the building of the mills were conducted, and that Argentine officials offered no objections.
Current status The United Kingdom has administered South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands separately from the Falklands since the islands were made a British dependent territory in their own right in 1985.
In 2014 European Parliament election in Slovakia, Škripek gained the sole OĽaNO mandate by preferential votes.
Its primary purpose should be to foster in individual consciences, in families, in the Church and in civil society a recognition of the meaning and value of human life at every stage and in every condition.
Those convicted of violating the legislation would be fined CA$5,000 and could face a six-month prison sentence with up to CA$10,000 for multiple offences.
Other prominent authors who have written in support of the consistent life ethic include Frank Pavone, John Dear, Ron Sider, James Hedges, Tony Campolo, Joel Hunter, Wendell Berry, and Shane Claiborne.
Following Lucifer's death at the hands of Beelzebub and Belial, Sandalphon takes over his role as the Supreme Primarch and vows to protect the Sky Realm in his stead.
See also March for Life and Family (Warsaw, Poland) March for Life (Washington, D.C., U.S.A.) March for Life (Prague) Walk for Life West Coast (San Francisco, Calif., U.S.A.) References External links Paris March for Life official website
Kim Reynolds' proclamation", while Reynolds was said to be "pleased that her proclamation remains in full effect and that surgical abortions will not be exempted from this suspension of non-essential and elective surgeries".
See also Abortion in the Czech Republic March for Life and Family March for Life (Washington, D.C.) Walk for Life West Coast References External links Official website
Heartbeat staff are also encouraged to create two websites, one that has an explicitly Christian message, and one that looks like Planned Parenthood.
And thus consequently he goes on to make the case that unless the embryo has a rational soul from the beginning, man would not beget man.
The next set referendums was held on 22 September, with a popular initiative on adding surplus gold reserves to the country's pension fund and a counter-proposal, as well as a federal law on the electricity market.
Rubella during pregnancy can lead to miscarriage (spontaneous abortion), and if it does not, there is a risk of severe disability due to congenital rubella syndrome.
Minister Dias Toffoli voluntarily abstained from voting due to a self-declared conflict of interest, as he previously presented a favorable opinion towards interrupting the pregnancy in such cases, during his term as Attorney General of Brazil.
make reasonable medical efforts under the circumstances to preserve both the life of the mother and the life of her unborn child".
In December 1996, Nathanson was baptized by John Cardinal O'Connor in a private Mass with a group of friends in New York's St.
In 2019, the Conference celebrated its twentieth anniversary and featured a keynote address by Timothy Cardinal Dolan of New York, Cardinal O’Connor’s successor.
Center for Reproductive Rights, CRR Between 2014 and 2016, Avila-Guillen worked as Advocacy Advisor for Latin-America in the Center for Reproductive Rights.
Since the cell strains in use originate from abortions, there has been opposition to the practice and the resulting vaccines on religious and moral grounds.
Carhart found that the 2003 act "departs in material ways" from the Nebraska law and that it pertains only to a specific abortion procedure, intact dilation and extraction.
The National Right to Life Committee (NRLC) was founded in 1967 as the Right to Life League to coordinate its state campaigns under the auspices of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.
In the monologue by Sarah Ruhl, a student shares experience about speaking in favor of abortion at a Catholic school.
In February 2006, the Legislature passed the Women's Health and Human Life Protection Act, which was signed into law by Governor Mike Rounds on March 6, 2006.
For example, Webster's Dictionary defined "pregnant" (or "pregnancy") as "having conceived" (or "the state of a female who has conceived"), in its 1828 and 1913 editions.
Additionally, even though the abortion ban existed, the combination of son preference and availability of sex-selective technology led to an increasing number of sex-selective abortions and boys born.
Sex og Politikk is a non-governmental organisation in Norway that promotes sexual health and rights domestically and internationally.
According to Aude Bertrand-Mirkovic, children in the prenatal stage are human persons but do not need legal personhood, as their rights can be protected by objective law.
Better Serbia won a narrow victory in Jovanović's home community of Topola in the concurrent 2020 Serbian local elections, defeating the Serbian Progressive Party by sixteen seats to fifteen.
M-312 called for the formation of a committee "to review the declaration in Subsection 223(1) of the Criminal Code which states that a child becomes a human being only at the moment of complete birth".
The film serves to combat critics to The Silent Scream who argue that, although Nathanson claimed the film relied only on imagery and not pejorative speech, the film was heavily reliant on upon the language of the narrator.
Plot summary Sam Doonby is a mysterious drifter who gets off a bus one afternoon in a small Texas town to change and improve the lives of all with whom he comes in contact.
During the Salvadoran Civil War, which ended in 1992, Herrera served as a left-wing freedom fighter for the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN) against the United States-supported government.
Abortion notification A 2002 United States Gallup special report mentions only 38% of the population being opposed to notifying the husband of a married woman for an abortion.
The Bhagavad Gita also includes lamentation of the degradation of a dynasty or society through "undesirable progeny" which has been interpreted by some to mean a lack of descendants qualified to perform propitiatory rites.
This Congress approved a set of demands, including the release of women from political prisons, an end to discrimination against women at work, and the introduction of painless childbirth and the right to abortion to preserve women's health.
In March 2026, Luxembourg became the second country in the world to constitutionally safeguard abortion access.
Staff are also trained on how to discourage pregnant women from accessing abortion, and how to discourage young women from using emergency contraception, birth control pills, or IUDs.
Austin Petersen Austin Petersen, presidential candidate for the Libertarian Party in 2016 and Republican candidate for senator in 2018, is a believer and advocate for a consistent life ethic, meaning that he opposes both abortion and the death penalty.
Jackson Women's Health Organization, which effectively overturned the constitutional right to abortion that had been established by Roe v.
The general value system of Hinduism teaches that the correct course of action in any given situation is the one that causes the least harm to those involved.
The Association had released earlier statements in 1963 and 1968 favoring the reform of restrictive abortion laws.
Others have objected to wrongful life claims on conceptual grounds, including the question of whether there exist rights and duties with regards to non-existent persons.
The case had come to be known as the "Bourne Judgment" and set the precedence in several subsequent abortion cases.
Background The first Rock for Choice concert was organized by L7 and music editor Sue Cummings of the LA Weekly, who brought their idea for a pro-abortion rights benefit concert modeled on Bob Geldof's Live Aid.
This was the first official display of the sculpture, as a protest of the church's teachings regarding contraception.
Completely Pro-Life: Building a Consistent Stance on Abortion, The Family, Nuclear Weapons, The Poor.
The first two were held on 3 March on popular initiatives for Switzerland to join the United Nations and to reduce working hours.
The Safe Access to Abortion Services Act, 2017 (French: Loi de 2017 sur l'accès sécuritaire aux services d'interruption volontaire de grossesse) is an act of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario relating to the legal protection of access to abortion.
Heartbeat International teaches its affiliated members to make their advertising look as though they are full-service reproductive health clinics that provide referrals for birth control or abortion.
Sex og Politikk offers a sex education/sexuality education class called "Uke Sex" to many schools all across Norway.
The party participated in an electoral coalition with GERB and the Union of Democratic Forces since elections in 2021.
While considering the prospect that non-Hispanic whites will be less than 50% of the US population by 2044; Bhattacharya pointed out the racist hypocrisy in the statement "Diversity equals white genocide", discussing how the "alt right loves to evoke genocide while harbouring Holocaust deniers".
Featured artists Artists featured in the Rock for Choice concerts included: References External links Feminist Majority Foundation: What Is Rock For Choice?
Under the Dublin Declaration's reasoning, standard care for threatening conditions such as ectopic pregnancies or eclampsia would remain the same, and does not constitute abortion, therefore is not within the scope of abortion bans.
Victoria: In November 2015, Victoria became the second state to pass legislation, the Public Health and Wellbeing Amendment (Safe Access Zones) Act 2015, to limit protests outside abortion clinics and 150 metre buffer zones are now enforced.
The lack of national data means that his bureau resorts to conducting a yearly survey called the "Abortion Surveillance Report".
Clinical response In response to this statute, many abortion providers have adopted the practice of inducing fetal demise before beginning late-term abortions.
In the twelfth century, in the Decretum Gratiani, Gratian, and the medieval canon law generally, merely followed the prevailing scientific view of the period that quickening represented the time at which the fetus was "vivified," defined as the time at which it was "ensouled." A century later, St.
Heartbeat International is an international anti-abortion association that supports the largest network of crisis pregnancy centers (CPC) in the world, with over 2,000 affiliates in 50 countries.
On 2021, the party attempted to change its name to "Brasil 35", a modification made to attract the Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro after he left his original Social Liberal Party and failed to create his own Alliance for Brazil, and mark the transition of the party to conservatism.
In the late 1960s she worked with Simone de Beauvoir on women's rights in France, was a founding member of Choisir la Cause des Femmes (CHOISIR), and especially focused her activism on the legalization of abortion.
One such example comes from the utilitarian perspective of Peter Singer who argues that abortion of healthy fetuses is not justified, but that disability-selective abortions are justified if the total amount of happiness will be greater by doing so.
Groups calling themselves abolitionist include the Oklahoma-based organization Abolitionists Rising, Abolish Human Abortion, and Operation Save America.
Many pregnancy centers have the ultimate goal of converting women through a born-again experience to "save the mother, save the baby".
After the legalization of abortion in the state, it took nearly 12 years for the second Mexican state Oaxaca, to decriminalize it.
The Sixth Ecumenical Council determined for the whole Church that anyone who procured abortion should bear all the punishments inflicted on murderers.
It is currently focusing on an effort to get the AFL-CIO to organize a national emergency labor conference to build defense of reproductive justice.
If the person lacks the capacity to give informed consent to the termination, the medical professional can obtain permission from a person lawfully authorised to give consent on the person's behalf.
Religious law There are no prohibitions of abortion in the Confucian texts, nor mention of it in the earliest Vedas.
The film uses 16 short film segments and a wraparound film to weave together each filmmaker's specific response to the Supreme Court decision.
In 2013 during the 113th Congress, Representative Trent Franks introduced a bill named the "Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act" (H.R.
Between the start of 2011 and May 31, 2019, almost 500 abortion restrictions were created across 33 states, accounting for more than one third of abortion restrictions enacted since Roe v.
Many were also outraged at the invasion of privacy and the medical problems resulting from abortions taking place illegally in medically dangerous circumstances.
Are the cells of the trophectoderm, which are synchronically unified with the cells of the ICM at this time as an embryo, also unified as part of a single human being via the soul?
These "morality" prosecutions were suspended to show foreigners a good image during the 1936 Summer Olympics, but then resumed vigorously after Pope Pius XI had denounced Nazism in his 1937 encyclical Mit brennender Sorge.
14024 for being responsible by working with the Government of the Russian Federation by acting as an observer in Russia’s sham referendums for purported annexation of the Russia-occupied regions of Ukraine in September 2022.
See also Abortion in Australia Late termination of pregnancy References External links "Abortion Law Reform Act 2019".
He was then Professor of Divinity at Oxford University, and this work characterised him amongst liberal Anglicans as a significant figure in the effort to make the Anglican Church's moral stance on homosexuality more accepting.
Facts On 27 April 1938, a 14-year-old girl had been raped by a group of Royal guardsmen at Horse Guards Parade near Whitehall and the assailants were subsequently sentenced at the Old Bailey.
Eclipse of Reason is most heavily criticized for its idealization of the “World of Reason” and for creating a dichotomy that may not exist in between the two hypothetical worlds.
It has also been endorsed by the Vatican and has premiered at the Landmark E Street Cinema during the 2013 March for Life, an annual anti-abortion march protesting abortion in the United States.
For, though the opinion of Aristotle, or similar speculations, regarding the time when the rational soul is infused into the embryo, were practically accepted for many centuries still it was always held by the Church that he who destroyed what was to be a man was guilty of destroying a human life.
The All-Poland Women's Strike or Polish Women's Strike (Polish: Ogólnopolski Strajk Kobiet, OSK) is a women's rights social movement in Poland, established in September 2016.
By 1940, the section had already possessed data on some 41,000 homosexuals, both suspected and convicted.
Bush reinstated the policy, stating, "It is my conviction that taxpayer funds should not be used to pay for abortions or advocate or actively promote abortion, either here or abroad.
Misinformation and disinformation related to abortion often stems from political, religious and social groups, particularly on social media, as well as crisis pregnancy centers.
It automatically received access and positive treatment in the pro-government yellow press and television, where only the Progressives and their allies have such a privilege.
Vivienne Liley, "Division and fragmentation in the work of three Gualdeloupean novelists: Mic'hele Lacrosil, Jacqueline Manicom and Simone Schwarz-Bart" (PhD thesis, Queen Mary, University of London, 1993).
Suchanow said in an interview to Le Monde that the initiative comes from Poland, "In Poland we know how to make revolutions" ("En Pologne, nous savons comment faire les révolutions").
Jackson Women's Health Organization decision was officially handed down on June 24, 2022, the NMRJ organized protests with civil disobedience in a number of states including Arizona, California, New York, and Washington.
Common examples of non-invasive testing are ultrasound and cell-free placental DNA tests, which was developed and implemented in the United States and Western Europe in late 2011.
Barroso went on to empathize with the religious argument, but justified his position by contrasting the Golden Rule with the violence of incarcerating women for this decision.
The Reproductive Health Care Reform Bill was then introduced to the Parliament's upper house, the New South Wales Legislative Council, by the NSW Labor upper house leader Penny Sharpe on 20 August 2019.
Thus the progression towards existence of a potential person usually lies mainly in the maturation of previous people to develop the will and ability to become potential parents.
Her disappearance drew a lot of attention with Kenyans mobilising on social platforms such as Twitter, under the Hashtag #FindCarolineMwatha to draw attention on the matter.
Euthanasia Archbishop Williams stated that he remained opposed to voluntary euthanasia despite seeing his mother's painful months of decline and dementia.
The reform bill sought to amend section 65 of the Crimes Act 1958, which had codified the common law offences relating to abortion.
On 14 February 2022, Dragan Jovanović announced that BS will participate in the 2022 Serbian parliamentary elections as part of the SNS-led coalition and their "Together We Can Do Everything" ballot list.
The march began at 10:00 am at the Santa Ana Cemetery, in homage to the women who died because of clandestine abortions (unsafe abortions), and ended at 2:00 pm at Largo das Heroínas.
In the name of God was involved in three activities during the World Social Forum: A conference in which several artist from Uganda, Kenya, and other countries spoke regarding their use of theatre, painting, and sculpture to highlight local and global issues.
Although it is very uncommon, women undergoing surgical abortion after this gestational age sometimes give birth to a fetus that may survive briefly.
FEC, for most practical purposes, it cut deeply into the law, reverting it to its pre-McConnell state in which only speech expressly advocating the election or defeat of a candidate could be constitutionally subject to limits and prohibitions on financing.
The amended bill was then returned to the Legislative Assembly as the Abortion Law Reform Bill on 26 September 2019.
Different women who have had abortions and suffered harmful effects from the procedure give testimony later in the film.
Since persons, as usually defined, are multicellular individuals, it is difficult to maintain scientifically that a person has come into existence before the eight-cell stage.
The report revealed that in 2019 there had been 6,666 terminations in the State under the Act's provisions, of which 21 were on grounds of risk to life or health.
The intent of the Chicago Method is to dissuade women from obtaining abortion services at the facility.
Some of the most notable achievements of Memphis Hardline were organizing the movement's first annual gathering and founding the long-standing Coalition to Abolish the Fur Trade (CAFT).
"The Catholic 'Consistent Life Ethic' and Attitudes Toward Capital Punishment and Welfare Reform." Sociology of Religion.
A female of any age who consents to, or assists in, the performance of an abortion on herself is not guilty of an offence against the section.
The party was founded in December 1996 by members of the political satire television programme Canaletto.
The harm consists in the fact that "when I die, I am deprived of all of the value of my future", and is being deprived of all the valuable "experiences, activities, projects, and enjoyments" that they would otherwise have had.
He gained media notoriety for scolding fellow MPs for being rude to each other and attempting to ban depictions of nudity in the media.
Specifically, the sculptures are a reaction against teachings of the Christian church regarding contraception and sexual education, and as a general criticism of the leadership of George W.
Hutter, Jörg: "Die Rolle der Polizei bei der Schwulen- und Lesbenverfolgung im Nationalsozialismus" [1].
She also led advocacy opposing violence against women, raising awareness of femicide in the country.
The stage show was premiered in an October to early November run in 2022 at the Arlene and Robert Kogod Cradle in Washington, D.C., part of the Arena Stage complex.
The Sisters of Life is a Catholic female religious order dedicated to protecting and enhancing the sacredness of human life.
the process of informed consent to the reading of a fixed script created and mandated by politicians not doctors." See also Pain in babies Prenatal development Texas Senate Bill 5 References External links "Oversight Hearing on Pain of the Unborn" from U.S.
The Workers' Party (PT) crisis during the Dilma Rousseff government, precipitated and accelerated by the political-economic crisis of 2014, strengthened Bolsonarist ideology and the Brazilian new right, which are part of the context of the rise of New Right populism at an international level.
In 2019, FOR SA spoke in support of a pastor who allegedly told high school students that gay people were akin to murderers and paedophiles and "just as bad as Hitler".
Critics accuse him of spreading conspiracy theories and holding views perceived as antisemitic or pro-Russian.
According to a 2013 United Nations report, 93 per cent of countries allow abortion where its purpose is to save a woman's life.
A resolution by the Council of Europe has found several violations of the European Social Charter in the situation: right to protection of health (art.
Jovanović was elected on Serbian Progressive Party's (SNS) list in 2016, and after serving as an independent member of the assembly for six months, Jovanović launched Better Serbia in July 2017.
The casualties mount even though safe, WHO-approved abortion pills, legal in more than 60 countries, have been available for over a decade.
It's not for me to exploit my position to push a change." Abortion He has indicated opposition to abortion writing that, for himself, "it is impossible to view abortion as anything other than the deliberate termination of a human life." He is a lifetime member of the anti-abortion group SPUC.
Defence A registered medical practitioner who terminates a pregnancy in accordance with the provisions of the Abortion Act 1967 does not commit this offence.
Suchanow described the tactics for the continuation of the protests as decentralised, up to grassroots initiatives and creativity.
Advances in technology Evictionists believe that advances in technology will continue to improve the medical ability to preserve a living fetus after removal from its mother.
However, this decision, based on Germany's Basic Law, which protected the unborn child's right to life and stated a legal obligation for mothers to carry their babies to term, granted circumstantial exceptions if they were legally/constitutionally sound.
In the United States, federal funding for abortion through Medicaid, the public health insurance program for low-income residents, is banned except for cases of incest, rape, and life endangerment due to the Hyde Amendment.
After having served their prison terms, many of those prosecuted were sent to concentration camps (usually the camp at Dachau, which had a special "priest block").
September 19, 2022 Around 10,000 people gathered for the 2022 march in Warsaw, as well as thousands more in towns across Poland.
In his speech Pro Cluentio, delivered in 66 BC, Cicero refers to a case he had heard of in which a woman from Miletus was sentenced to death for having aborted her pregnancy, upon receiving bribes from those who stood to inherit her husband's estate if he produced no heir.
After the death of Albert II of Germany in 1439, his then-unborn son Ladislaus the Posthumous inherited his father's sovereign rights.
Meanwhile, the European Court of Human Rights complicated the question even more through a landmark judgment (case of A.
Despite the prevalence of illegal abortions in Myanmar due to economic difficulty, many Buddhists consider it against their religious beliefs.
The Court considered that the defense of the unborn human being's right to life necessarily implies prohibition.
Magaly Quintana Pereyra (28 May 1952 – 5 May 2019) was a Nicaraguan feminist historian and activist.
Doctors for a Woman's Choice on Abortion state that the majority of surgical abortions in Britain are already performed with general anesthesia, which also affects the fetus.
As a result, at least 27 States banned the procedure as did the United States Congress which voted to ban the procedure during the 104th, 105th, and 106th Congresses.
History Before 1 April 1991, section 5(1) of the Abortion Act 1967 provided that nothing in that Act affected the provisions of the Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929.
Clergy opposed to the regime or holding views the Nazis found suspect (for instance pacifism) were particularly targeted, with the false charge of homosexual conduct serving to conceal the real political cause of their prosecution.
From 1936 to 1938 SS official Josef Meisinger was the director of the section at the Gestapo Central Headquarters.
The selective abortion of female fetuses is most common in areas where cultural norms value male children over female children for a variety of social and economic reasons.
On 6 February 2019, 37-year-old Caroline Mwatha Ochieng’, a Kenyan human rights activist and founder of the Dandora Community Center (which investigates and documents cases of police killings in Dandora), went missing.
By 2000, David Ormerod opines that a definition of "born alive" taken from the 1991 case is not of universal application and that an example of a case where it was not applicable was Re A (conjoined twins), where a conjoined twin who never drew breath was considered to have been born alive.
Repeal A referendum to repeal the Women's Health and Human Life Protection Act was placed on ballot for the November 2006 statewide election, due to a successful petition drive by the organization South Dakota Healthy Families.
The event took place near the Kremlin and was led by FSSPX Superior General Bernard Fellay, with participation from traditional Russian Catholics.
Amendment In 2025, an amendment to the Act made its way through parliament that seeks to expand access to abortion services provided through the public health system.
In this proposal, the previous exceptions for abortion were eliminated (unviability of the fetus, pregnancies that put the mother's life at risk and pregnancies resulting from rape).
Theoretically, security of the person would be breached if the government limits a person's ability to make an income, by denying welfare, taking away property essential to one's profession, or denying licenses.
Molly Smith, Artistic Director of Arena Stage, commissioned eight playwrights to write monologues in response to this action.
Mizuko Mizuko (水子), literally "water child", is a Japanese term for an aborted, stillborn or miscarried baby, and archaically for a dead baby or infant.
He is also described as being a member of the śārim (Hebrew: שָׂרִים "princes"), and a Hazzan (חַזָּן master of heavenly song).
In the Edo period, when famine sometimes led the poverty-stricken to infanticide and abortion, the practice was adapted to cover these situations as well.
Kamm's work spans across many issues in bioethics, normative ethics, and the philosophy of death, including: the moral justification of abortion, the ethics of war, physician-assisted suicide, the trolley problem and the doctrine of the double effect.
CMHNTM asserts that it is independent of political and religious ideology; however, its membership includes Christian fundamentalists, sympathizers of the Christian right, and the Fujimorist political formation Popular Force.
Provisions The act establishes a safe access zones with a radius of 50 metres around abortion clinics and safe access zones with a radius of 150 metres around the homes of staff.
Medical abortions are an alternative to surgical (also called procedural or instrumentation) abortions such as vacuum aspiration or dilation and curettage.
Later term abortions are not punishable if indicated medical reasons, such as possible harm to the woman from continued pregnancy, or a severely deformed fetus.
Publications and public speeches Paula Avila-Guillen has been published op-Eds and academic articles related to sexual and reproductive rights, health and public policies.
On April 23, Barrett issued another preliminary injunction saying that surgical abortions could proceed if a provider determines that delaying the procedure would cause the pregnancy to become viable, and thus prevent access to an abortion.
The film focuses on the limbs of the fetus while in the womb then proceeds to show the abortion in graphic detail.
The film's cast includes Alyssa Milano, Virginia Madsen, Gina Torres, Milana Vayntrub, Jennifer Holland, Sean Gunn, Molly C.
Efforts to study Christianity and sexuality The same year as he made the above comments, and as a practical consequence of the views he expressed, Williams founded the Institute for the Study of Christianity and Sexuality (which in 1996 became the Centre for the Study of Christianity and Sexuality).
Morgentaler, a 5–2 majority of the Supreme Court of Canada held that the abortion provisions of the Criminal Code were unconstitutional.
An additional study that analyzed data for 36 crisis pregnancy center websites in North Carolina found that 31 out of 36 made misinformation available to those accessing their site.
Though women wish for safe abortions, fears of legal and social repercussions may lead to more unsafe abortions.
The fraternity combines the monastic life with itinerant preaching of penance and conversion, in obedience and submission to the authentic and timeless Magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church, subject to the Roman Pontiff, always under the guidance and authority of the local Ordinary.
Some view the memorial service as the temples' way of benefiting from the misfortune of women who have miscarried or had to abort a pregnancy.
A 2008 systematic review of the medical literature on abortion and mental health found that high-quality studies consistently showed few or no mental-health consequences of abortion, while poor-quality studies were more likely to report negative consequences.
Although the subject of abortion was heavily discussed in relation to the RH Law, the law does not legalize abortion.
The right of member states to enact legislation that limit the right to conscientious objection to abortion was upheld by the European Court of Human Rights in March 2020.
To make matters worse, contraception is very hard to obtain for most women and if they do obtain it, it usually does not work properly.
Gloria Purvis, a Black Catholic and talk show host, spoke at the 2020 conference on the anti-abortion movement engaging with African Americans.
Only pharmacists employed by a hospital may administer or supply a drug or drugs for an abortion after 24 weeks, and then only at the "written direction of a registered medical practitioner".
Popular misinterpretations Several sources use the following quotes from Hindu texts regarding the morality of abortion: Bhagavad Gita, 2.13 "Just as the embodied soul continuously passes from childhood to youth to old age, similarly, at the time of death, the soul passes into another body.
However, these countries vary greatly in the circumstances under which abortion was to be permitted.
That Act directs that "any enactment creating an offence by directing it to be felony shall be read as directing it to be an offence".
In the Greater Key of Solomon, Sandalphon is designated "the left-hand feminine cherub of the Ark of the Covenant".
Stoicism maintained that the living animal soul was received only at birth, through contact with the outer air, and was transformed into a rational soul only at fourteen years of age.
Europe In Europe, abortion law varies by country, and has been legalized through parliamentary acts in some countries, and constitutionally banned or heavily restricted in others.
Regardless of their personal objections, medical practitioners and nurses have a duty to perform or assist in performing an emergency abortion if the pregnant woman's life is in danger.
The film was started as a thesis project by Stephen Fell and Will Thompson, students at Rice University.
These immature cells could then be exposed to carcinogens and hormones over time, resulting in a greater potential risk of breast cancer.
The boundaries are determined by what it means to be loyal to Jesus Christ." However, in a later interview with Time magazine in June 2007, he stated that he had not changed his own mind, although he is now constrained from expressing personal views at variance with the corporate view of the Church.
It passed final stages in the Dáil on 5 December, where it was approved by 90 votes to 15, with 12 registered abstentions.
The Women's March for the Decriminalization of Abortion took place on 18 March 2017 in Luanda, Angola.
Also, in some countries, laws have been passed to restrict the practice of abortion based upon the gender of the fetus.
The most significant changes allowed the Higher Court to renounce a patient's right to appeal, and to fine physicians who did not report patients who they knew would qualify for sterilisation under the law.
Prohibition of Abortion Although most Islamic scholars permit abortions, there have been views going back to the early centuries that it is prohibited entirely.
Mantras, often the Heart Sutra and the 25th chapter of the Lotus Sutra, known as the "Avalokiteśvara Sutra", are performed, as are calls of praise to Jizō.
Further developments In 2018, London Health Sciences Centre said they had no plans to make use of the legislation.
For example, one poll sponsored by the organization showed that 35% of voters who identified as pro-life did not believe Roe v.
Teratogenicity and ongoing pregnancy Before taking medication for abortion, individuals should be advised about the potential harmful effects of misoprostol if the abortion is not successful.
The minister considered it unconstitutional the interpretation that interrupting a pregnancy of anencephalic fetus is a crime according to the Penal Code of Brazil: Aborto é crime contra a vida.
Oceania New Zealand In New Zealand, Conscientious Objection in Abortion is supported by legislation and employment was protected against discrimination, however, in 2020, this protection was partially removed where it causes unreasonable disruption to an employers services.
The Reich Central Office for the Combating of Homosexuality and Abortion (German: Reichszentrale zur Bekämpfung der Homosexualität und der Abtreibung) was a government bureau central to Nazi Germany's persecution of homosexuals and tasked with enforcing laws which criminalized abortion.
According to the conspiracy theory, these efforts will culminate in domination of the world economy.
Later, Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin started sending urgent messages back to the Soviet Navy warning that an operation was imminent.
The group supposedly included poets and scientists Christopher Marlowe, George Chapman, Matthew Roydon and Thomas Harriot.
Libs of TikTok's reposted video has been promoted by Russian and European disinformation networks, such as Tsargrad TV.
In 2021, the press club Concordia filed an official complaint against the broadcaster at the communications authority of Austria (Kommunikationsbehörde Austria).
Other variations of the legend focus more strongly on the alleged role of a woman, who was already mentioned in 1992 in the Vril Project by Jürgen-Ratthofer and Ettl and also later at Holey was mentioned: a medium named Maria Oršić.
In this essay, he criticises contemporary society's moral attitudes as being based on a "discontinuous, speciesist imperative".
These efforts were believed to try to change how the public in Sweden viewed its government and the EU.
Buchanan praised Musk for plans to scale back Twitter's content moderation, but said his account remained shadowbanned even after the purchase.
Further, the work of media literacy will also include the skills needed to analyze propaganda and sources, so students can clarify what is fake news.
In February 2009, Tracey was arrested while a student at The College of New Jersey after he attempted to approach Ann Coulter, who had spoken at the college's campus in Ewing.
As of 2025, he was working at the Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic as a member of a research group headed by Pavel Jungwirth.
Bankruptcies On April 17, 2022, three companies owned by Jones filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S.
On September 16, 1941, the Davenport Times of Iowa reported that no other "public utterance by a figure of prominence in American life in a generation [...] brought forth such unanimous protest from the press, the church and political leaders".
Released on vinyl and CD, this EP includes the band's longest song to date "Conspiranoia", clocking in at eleven minutes; it was released as a single on April 5, 2022, alongside a music video created by Cage Claypool, the son of Primus vocalist and bassist Les Claypool.
Notable guests on RCR have included New Zealand First leader Winston Peters, NZ First MPs Shane Jones and Tanya Unkovich, ACT Party leader David Seymour, ACT MP Cameron Luxton, anti-vaccination activist Dr Matt Shelton, National Party ministers Mark Mitchell and Erica Stanford.
History Konstantin Malofeev hired former Fox News news director John "Jack" Hanick (Russian: Джек Хэник born 1950), who, with producer Roger Ailes, co-founded Fox News, was its news director from 1996 to 2011 and moved to Moscow in 2013 to help Malofeev launch the channel.
In August 2017, Henrik Palmgren said that hackers had taken down the Red Ice website and were going to release names of 23,000 subscribing members.
In February 2002, he characterized the position that "God had no part in the process [of the evolution of mankind]" as the "standard scientific theory".
On 1 May 1776, Weishaupt and four students formed the Perfectibilists, taking the Owl of Minerva as their symbol.
She says she had little interest in science before meeting other skeptics, including magician James Randi, while at university.
Conspiracy theories There are several hypotheses about his death: Escobar committed suicide by shooting himself below the right ear.
This is the anti-expectations album." In February 2009, it was announced that writer Stephen King would play a major role in the album.
The capitalization distinction is not rigidly observed; it is not unusual to capitalize the term even when it is being used in the more general sense, although the reverse (uncapitalized usage connoting the conspiracy humor) is rare.
In private correspondence, he referred to Trump as a "demonic force" and wrote, "I hate him passionately".
Infowars, and in particular Jones, has advocated numerous conspiracy theories, particularly around purported domestic false flag operations by the U.S.
Balkan Info's team has interviewed more than 400 prominent individuals including Milan Gutović, Nele Karajlić, Ljubodrag Simonović, Nebojša Pavković, Draško Stanivuković, Muamer Zukorlić, Ajs Nigrutin and many more.
According to this belief, the official elected government is subservient to the shadow government, which is the true executive power.
Moreno thought that a blockade against Montevideo would not be effective, for the Montevidean naval supremacy over Buenos Aires.
Cooper believed that aliens "manipulated and/or ruled the human race through various secret societies, religions, magic, witchcraft, and the occult", and that even the Illuminati were unknowingly being manipulated by them.
It was decided that Warburg who spoke German, had to travel to Germany and ask Hitler how much money he needed to become head of state.
August 2016 – Fourth nomination for an International Emmy Award for its coverage of the 70th anniversary session of the United Nations General Assembly.
The work premiered on 19 September 2007 in the Purcell Room at the Southbank Centre in London; the orchestral parts were played by the ensemble Radius.
While historians and literary scholars overwhelmingly reject alternative authorship candidates, including Oxford, public interest in the Oxfordian theory continues.
Platform and agency responses As major fires burned in and around Los Angeles in January 2025, officials from city agencies and national partners pursued a coordinated strategy to counter falsehoods by issuing timely updates, flagging fake imagery and directing residents to verified resources.
Haarsma joined the faculty of Calvin University, where she served as a professor and chair of the physics and astronomy departments.
Virus origins During the 2014 outbreak in Liberia, an article in the Liberian Observer alleged that the virus was a bioweapon designed by the US military as a form of population control.
The proposal has four key elements: reorganization of mobility, (re)naturalization of the city, de-commodification of housing, and de-growth.
Reception Derek Pearcy reviewed On the Edge for Pyramid #15 (Sept./Oct., 1995) and stated that "All in all, the On the Edge product line is one of the most varied and well-supported trading card games out there.
In 2015, Yeni Şafak claimed that his former prime minister İsmet İnönü was in charge of planning the murder.
Confusion in classical period inscriptions suggests that the name was already ancient and unfamiliar to contemporary scribes.
McAdams filed suit for breach of contract and in 2018 the Wisconsin Supreme Court ordered the university to reinstate him.
Albrechtsen did not deny the misquote, but responded by accusing Media Watch of inherent left-wing bias and of deliberately leading a witch-hunt against contrary views.
After Luigi Mangione, the suspect in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson, was arrested, Piker supported him and praised the tactic of the propaganda of the deed on his stream but avoided breaking Twitch's terms of service rules regarding glorification of violence.
A goal of this platform was to avoid the censorship, restrictions, and rules found on many "Big Tech" social media platforms.
For the second half, she found the visuals and audio design to have improved, with a focus on visual themes such as clasped hands, and the use of highly detailed and more realistic art during stressful moments in the story.
In 2017, a former editor-in-chief and Chinese Communist Party Committee Secretary of CNS until February 2015, Liu Beixian, was charged with taking bribes during the anti-corruption campaign under Xi Jinping and expelled from the CCP.
The cabal consisted of operators of major news server newsgroups, allowing them to wield greater control over Usenet.
The UN as a satanic enemy is a theme in apocalyptic Christian media, such as the 1990s–2000s series Left Behind, in which the UN is run by the Antichrist, as well as Pat Robertson's 1991 New World Order and Hal Lindsey's 1994 book Planet Earth 2000 A.D.: Will Mankind Survive?.
Lidell said that the occultist Aleister Crowley had been initiated into the witch-cult in 1899 or 1900, after being introduced to it through Allan Bennett, a Golden Dawn friend of his.
Other theories spreading online during the pandemic alleged that the New World Order had engineered the virus to impose quarantines and travel bans to soften an eventual descent into martial law.
In 2019, ID2020 started a new digital identity program in collaboration with the government of Bangladesh and Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization.
An original Assassin's Creed title for the PlayStation Vita was announced to be in development during Gamescom 2011, and it was said that it would feature a new story with new characters.
This tool is intended to guide community discussion about how the 10-Minute Neighborhood concept can improve livability and explore the policy changes necessary to achieve that vision.
While clearly Protestant, the Rosicrucians were anything but anticlerical, were pro-monarchic and held views clearly conflicting with the Illuminati vision of a rationalist state run by philosophers and scientists.
In July 2020, Mason had several of his videos on YouTube debunking COVID-19 conspiracy theories falsely flagged and taken down.
On Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating out of 100 to reviews from professional publications, it received an average score of 80, based on 23 reviews, indicating generally favourable reviews.
O'Keefe selectively edited and manipulated his recordings of ACORN employees and distorted the chronologies.
On 15 December 2014 during the Sydney Lindt café siege, coverage of the unfolding incident took 16 of the 20 most watched programs on the Foxtel platform.
Chairmen of the Steering Committee Criticism There have been long standing concerns about lobbying, since senior policymakers meet with corporate lobbyists, and in the case of the 2015 meeting even with senior figures at Transparency International.
Introduction Launched in October 2011, Exaro, under its motto "Holding Power to Account", claimed to specialise in "carrying out in-depth investigations".
The River Lyn through the town had been culverted to gain land for business premises; this culvert soon choked with flood debris, and the river flowed through the town.
In 2005 the Hamburg-based Alfred Toepfer Foundation awarded him its annual Shakespeare Prize in recognition of his "concise and accessible presentation of scientific knowledge".
Plot The Doctor and his companion Belinda Chandra arrive on New Year's Day 2007 and meet 8-year-old Conrad Clark.
Plait's work has also appeared in the Encyclopædia Britannica Yearbook of Science and the Future and Astronomy magazine.
It also owned Disinformation Books, which focused on current affairs titles and books exposing alleged conspiracy theories, occultism, politics, news oddities, and purported disinformation.
Bush has the legal authority to use military commissions" and that "President Bush's choice stands on firm legal ground." Sunstein scorned as "ludicrous" an argument from law professor George P.
The party ran again in the 2022 Australian federal election, this time as the Informed Medical Options Party.
The podcast series has been used by lawyers researching Alex Jones in relation to his various Sandy Hook lawsuits.
During subsequent years, the group was generally vilified by conservative and religious critics, who claimed that the Illuminati continued underground and were responsible for the French Revolution.
Reporters described how federal emergency managers and local departments used social channels and briefings to rebut specific rumours, including claims about lasers and targeted ignition, and to clarify that early imagery often misleads during fast-moving disasters.
4) The conspiracy theories are not attacked with ridicule or aggressive deconstruction, and interactions are not treated like an argument to be won; this approach can work with the general public, but among conspiracy theorists it may simply be rejected.
Such conspiracy theories may claim that Jesus actually had a wife and children, or that a group such as the Priory of Sion has secret information about the true descendants of Jesus; some claim that there was a secret movement to censor books that truly belonged in the Bible, etc.
In particular, Dawkins and Gould have been prominent commentators in the controversy over sociobiology and evolutionary psychology, with Dawkins generally approving and Gould generally being critical.
Similarly, a Frontiers in Oncology paper discussing a laboratory mouse dying of lymphoma after being injected with the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine was claimed to prove the existence of turbo cancer.
In episode 1798 (“Adam & The Robot”, 11 September 2025), Curry briefly said he had “yesterday thought [he] would stop doing this show” during an on-air exchange with co-host John C.
In reviewing histories from the Progressive Era, Hofstadter noted that the progressive historians tended to assume that reality was always hidden and ignored, being determined by bribes, rebates, and secret business deals.
Between 2019 and 2020, the Involuntary Medication Objectors (Vaccination/Fluoride) Party applied to rename itself to the Informed Medical Options Party at the federal level.
False allegations of sex crimes and murder committed by the fictional paedophile ring made by Beech later became the basis for the Metropolitan Police's Operation Midland, a £2 million probe which closed in 2016 with no charges brought.
On December 14, 2024, retired businessman and pastor Will Duffy paid to bring believers in the concept of a flat earth to Union Glacier Camp in Antarctica for them to witness day-long illumination.
He noted that Kordić's first book on relative clauses is: a valuable and thorough study of the grammar of relative constructions, drawing theoretical-linguistic inspiration from a number of sources and citing statistical results based on a large representative corpus.
Misinformation education In 2020, Richards created an inverted pyramid chart assessing conspiracy theories from "Grounded in Reality" to "Detached from Reality", which according to journalist David Farrier "went bonkers on Twitter".
Those bombings were called off by someone in the civilian political sphere officially "In order to reduce the appearance of a major military operation which would indicate U.S.
The Roman Catholic Church, in possession of the Shroud since 1983, has allowed several public viewings and encourages devotions to the image, but takes no official position on the icon's authenticity.
A fine of £100,000 ($155,000 in January 2012) was eventually imposed in November 2011, reversing an initial decision to revoke Press TV's licence.
Not only was it right about the right wing then, it is more accurate than ever today." 2016 reemergence In 2016, Hillary Clinton said she still believed in the "vast right-wing conspiracy", adding that it was "even better funded" 18 years later.
Therein, Neil Levy, in "Radically Socialized Knowledge", argues that conspiracy theories, conceived of as conflicting with officially endorsed accounts, "should be treated with prima facie scepticism" because they conflict with the views of the relevant epistemic authorities.
Also popularizing the idea was the hit US television show, The X-Files, in the series' story arc, Mythology of The X-Files.
Not only is it an inspired concept, but it’s also an enlightening treatise on the fine art of backstabbing.
The album has been classified as hard rock or heavy rock, industrial rock, psychedelic metal, progressive metal, progressive rock and stoner rock.
Following this report, the device was investigated by Trading Standards and found to be a scam and the matter had been referred to City of London Police Fraud Squad.
low vaccination rates causing an epidemic) may provoke anxiety, which is associated with conspiracism and could increase belief in conspiracy theories instead.
Officials have said the facilities are emergency FEMA camps for the housing of civilians displaced by natural disasters.
From 2015 to December 2024, Jarry has been co-hosting the Body of Evidence podcast with cardiologist Christopher Labos, examining various health claims (such as vitamins curing cancer) through scientific lens.
It was the first mobile game in the series to feature a fully explorable 3D environment, and took place alongside the events of Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood.
References External links George Johnson's home page Interviews/Discussions on Bloggingheads.tv New York Times author index page
The Sunday Times journalist Eleanor Mills walked out before a Press TV interview in 2010 after discovering she was not being interviewed by Sky News, as she had falsely believed.
He survived sepsis thanks to antibiotics, a treatment that was not available to his grandmother, who died of an infection following an insect bite in 1930.
Some non-academic reviewers also found the theories unconvincing and criticized Hancock's complaints about 'mainstream archaeology' as one-sided and evocative of conspiracy theories.
Many conspiracy theories relate to supposed clandestine government plans and elaborate murder plots.
XNCR transmitted to a larger geographical area after 1945, and its programs became more regular and formalized with broadcasts of news, official announcements, war bulletins, and art and literary programs.
Vamos a Conocernos: Brief information regarding the geography, culture and history of Latin American countries.
However, RIA Novosti's own report about the move speculated it was an attempt to consolidate state control over the media sector and The Guardian news outlet stated that this was also a move by Putin to propagate a more pleasant image of Russia abroad.
In some instances, anti-vaccine rhetoric has been traced to state-sponsored internet troll activities designed to create social dissension.
According to Neiwert, the autonomous march in Kentucky, organized by former National Alliance leader Robert Ransdell, was subject to particular derision due to the presence of two unidentified individuals in Ku Klux Klan uniforms.
Broadcast scope China Global Television Network and China Radio International broadcast in more than 40 languages.
In September 1970, Shepard was hired by John Ehrlichman, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs, onto his Domestic Council staff.
History Rossiya Segodnya incorporates the former RIA Novosti news service and the international radio service Voice of Russia (formerly Radio Moscow).
Link to “15-minute cities” and local traffic policies From late 2022, the phrase “climate lockdown” was repurposed to attack the urban-planning concept of the 15-minute city, incorrectly framing it as a scheme to confine residents within zones or to restrict free movement.
In 1998, the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry awarded show host Art Bell their mocking "Snuffed Candle Award", citing his work "for encouraging credulity, presenting pseudoscience as genuine, and contributing to the public's lack of understanding of the methods of scientific inquiry".
With the group becoming a major disinformation hub during the COVID-19 pandemic, its revenue reached $6.8 million in 2020, $15 million in 2021, counting among its new donors LimeWire's founder Mark Gorton, and $23.5 million in 2022.
This network covered anti-Semitic conspiracy theories and the white genocide conspiracy theory, as well as historical revisionism about the Third Reich (although it ridiculed American neo-Nazism by calling it controlled opposition).
The Urban Institute estimated that as of June 2022, large institutional investors owned roughly 574,000 single-family homes nationwide, representing about 3.8 percent of the approximately 15.1 million single-family rentals and far below the total stock of single-family homes.
He was one of the first researchers to have drawn attention to the efforts by white supremacist and antisemitic groups to recruit farmers in the Midwestern United States in the 1970s and 1980s.
Activities The association, which is present in most regions of France, offers many activities: militant, intellectual, cultural and sporting.
There is, however, no record of a cartographical globe in the Middle Ages before the Erdapfel of Martin Behaim from 1492.
Ambassador to Italy 1977–1981 David Gergen, Harvard Kennedy School professor, adviser to Nixon, Ford, Reagan, Clinton, commentator for CNN Jamie S.
In respect to the relation with Spain, Moreno thought that a premature declaration of independence would not be appropriate, and advised to wait for the revolution to strengthen and to see the final outcome of the Peninsular War.
For each incident, Nickell reviews the contemporaneous written accounts, explores various natural explanations, explains the cultural environment surrounding the events, and speculates on the motivations of the affected religious community.
Writing in The Sage Handbook of Propaganda, Daniel Aguirre and Caroline Ávila state that Telesur was among the media outlets created and established under chavismo "that amplify the propaganda messaging that Chávez directly articulated and was later channeled by pro-government media".
The player runs through several buildings, killing people such as police officers, a child pornographer and journalists.
Springfield’s city structure classifies the mayor’s position as part-time, with operational responsibilities largely managed by a city manager.
Rob Rue is an American politician serving as the mayor of Springfield, Ohio, a position he assumed in 2024 after previously serving as city commissioner and assistant mayor.
Carrier appears in the 2020 film Marketing the Messiah, where he discusses several topics including biblical canon creation, the Pauline sect, the dating of Paul's letters and the Gospels, Gospel authorship and redactions over time, and his interpretation of the Gospels as allegory.
Despite taking up just one line in the pilot script, director Marc Munden has described Lee's distinctive yellow bag as “a sort of jumping off point for the rest of the colour palette” for the show.
Personal life Raised in West Caldwell, New Jersey, he graduated from James Caldwell High School in 2006.
The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail, by Michael Baigent, Richard Leigh and Henry Lincoln (1982) is seen by many as the source of that plotline in The Da Vinci Code.
Of the claims that Freemasonry exerts control over politics, perhaps the best-known example is the New World Order theory, but there are others.
The furtive fallacy is an informal fallacy of emphasis in which historical outcomes are asserted to be the result of hidden (furtive) misconduct or wrongdoing by decision makers.
Established in March 2016, "Ending the Fed" was responsible for a false story in August 2016 that incorrectly stated Fox News had fired journalist Megyn Kelly—the story was briefly prominent on Facebook on its "Trending News" section.
Grossman writes that its appearance on the alt.usenet.cabal FAQ reflects conspiracy accusations as old as the Internet itself.
A pre-broken window also had to be fabricated because stunt glass is not fabricated in sizes large enough for the window frame.
Includes Kiwi Gemstone, account of Danny Casolaro's mysterious death, Com-12 Briefing Documents, Interview with Stephanie Caruanaa, etc.
Similarly, the Great Reset Initiative is an economic recovery plan drawn up by the World Economic Forum (WEF) in response to the COVID-19 pandemic that prioritizes sustainable development.
In The Science of Ghosts (2012), Nickell relates several archetype ghost stories—the girl in the snow, Elvis, phantom soldiers, and haunted lighthouses, castles, ships, and theaters.
In the midst of Mitchell's grieving, Mac tries to relieve the situation by finding an online video of Mitchell's grandfather participating in a drum ceremony at Ottawa’s National Aboriginal Day festival.
Etymology The American Heritage Dictionary traces the passage of the words bunk (noun), debunk (verb), and debunker (noun) into American English in 1923 as a belated outgrowth of bunkum.
Some say the common good overrides individual rights, and equate it to vaccination and food fortification.
In 2018, due to his use of that scheme, Clifford was declared a vexatious litigant in Alberta and made subject to strict court access restrictions.
"Conspiracy Theories and Interior Design" (alternate title "Conspiracy Theories and Soft Defenses") is the ninth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series Community, and the 34th episode of the series overall.
The lack of satellite data in 1952 meant the weather could not be forecast as reliably as it can be today.
Richards has created TikToks on, and spoken to news outlets about, misinformation and conspiracy theories on the app: including videos promoting QAnon and other antisemitic conspiracy theories; and misleading videos related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Sabri first went to Romania and then to Greece, where he published an anti-Kemalist newspaper in which he violently attacked the new Turkish regime and its founder, Kemal Atatürk (1881–1938).
They all feature Power, Resistance, Special Abilities, Alignments, Attributes, and Control Arrows (an inward arrow and 0–3 outward arrows).
Xinhua established its first overseas affiliate in 1947 in London, with Samuel Chinque as publisher.
In response, RCR co-founder Claire Deeks defended the accuracy of the advertisement and accused the Authority of acting like a "kangaroo court." References External links Official website
The channel started broadcasting on 12 April 2015 with Andrei Afanasiev (Russian: Андрей Афанасьев, born 1988 or 1989), who graduated from both MGIMO and Complutense University of Madrid and was a former RT employee from 2010 to 2014, as the news anchor.
Many of these critics have emphasized that they do not accept or do not believe that there is enough evidence to support the diversity of conspiracy theories that have arisen in regard to the group and that they disapprove of what they regard as their unpleasant associations and connotations.
In 2020-2021 it was reported that EADaily was involved in inciting the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh.
Assassin's Creed: Initiates Assassin's Creed: Initiates was a community-oriented project launched on 1 September 2012 which concerned the universe of the franchise, its database, plot elements and dossiers of the characters.
This was "sharply condemned" by Serbia's Ministry of Culture and Information, which called for sanctions, as well as by MP Azra Jasavić of neighbouring Montenegro, where the newspaper is also published.
In a 2012 divorce court deposition, he attributed neurological issues to "a worm that got into my brain and ate a portion of it and then died", in addition to mercury poisoning from eating large quantities of tuna.
Media attention In 2018, Bennett posed for her graduation photo from the university holding an AR-10 long gun in front of the university sign.
In 2024, Cook published The Quiet Damage, a book which profiles five QAnon believers, and how those beliefs impacted their families.
According to Estulin's book, the secretive Bilderbergers have been making major political, economical and social decisions since their first gathering in 1954.
In June 1946 and again in May 1947, Palmer had published fantastical letters from Crisman, who claimed to have battled inhuman underground monsters in Burma.
External links Quotations related to Fake news at Wikiquote Aspen Institute Commission on Information Disorder Final Report (2021).
The immediate effect was an anti-Spanish clampdown, in what, however, has been called a "labyrinthine affair".
Track listing Personnel Les Claypool – vocals, bass guitar Larry LaLonde – electric guitar Tim "Herb" Alexander – drums == References ==
Until 2015's Assassin's Creed Syndicate, the franchise was structured around single-player content, and while centering on open world spaces and incorporating several role-playing elements, the games were more action-adventure and stealth-oriented.
It also airs the FIM MotoGP World Championship, and will add the UEFA Champions League and Formula 1 in 2021.
Aaronovitch completed his education at the Victoria University of Manchester, graduating in 1978 with a 2:1 BA (Hons) in history.
In 2008, the Disinformation Company itself was accused of spreading propaganda (such as 9/11 "Truth" material) by Louis Proyect.
They go alongside the Power Structure of the player's Illuminati and bestow a valid Special Ability or something similar.
only through her steadfast belief that society itself can be improved while managing her irresponsible coworkers while seeking out a coveted promotion along the way.
Verb meaning "SMOFing" (or "smoffing") is used as a verb to refer to discussing the details or personalities involved in running a convention; when organizers talk amongst themselves about something related to fandom, they are SMOFing.
Huntington, former director of Harvard’s Center for International Affairs, former White House Coordinator of Security Planning for the U.S.
The Tartarian Empire or Great Tartaria is a group of pseudohistorical conspiracy theories, including ideas of a "hidden past" and "mud floods", which originated as pseudoscientific Russian nationalism.
History The Involuntary Medication Objectors (Vaccination/Fluoride) Party was first registered at the federal level by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) on 26 October 2016.
The New York Times reported he assisted in raising at least $650,000 from Julie Fancelli, a Publix grocery chain heiress who is a follower of InfoWars, to finance Trump's rally on the Ellipse, including $200,000 of the total amount deposited in one of Jones's bank accounts.
The word epsilonism was established as a term for the general phenomenon, and is usually used by people who disapprove of it.
In 2012, he left the Libertarian Party, rejoined the Republican Party, and endorsed and voted for Mitt Romney and Donald Trump.
Fuentes repeatedly criticized TPUSA and its founder, Charlie Kirk, accusing them of betraying Trump's agenda by supporting mass legal immigration, foreign aid to Israel, and LGBTQ inclusion.
Sports Servus TV airs ice hockey on Sunday nights, with the Austrian Hockey League in Austria and the Deutsche Eishockey Liga in Germany.
Goertzel's belief is that AGI will be a net positive for humanity by assisting with societal problems such as, but not limited to, climate change.
History Epsilon is the fifth letter of the Greek alphabet, and has a modern history as a symbol for freedom and Greece.
In January 2020, he was the most viewed live streamer on the platform DLive; however, following the January 6 attack, DLive permanently suspended his channel.
On April 4, 2016, McAdams issued a 4-page letter to President Lovell, formally rejecting his demands and calling them "compelled speech." McAdams filed a lawsuit against Marquette, alleging the suspension and pending dismissal amounted to a breach of contract.
The university released a statement that a cease and desist order had been issued against advertising the event, as Bennett had not attempted to register it with the university.
1963: the Kennedy assassination According to Aynesworth, he was scheduled to interview a scientist at Southern Methodist University on November 22, 1963.
Dentith, Keeley, and Basham favor minimalist definitions, defining "conspiracy theories" as theories involving conspiracies as a significant cause.
It owns and operates Gaia TV, a subscription video on-demand service consisting of original and licensed alternative media documentaries, including those on wellness, spirituality and conspiracy theories.
Is coronavirus really overwhelming our nation or is our nation overwhelming us with lies and killing our economy and us?" Complaints, investigations and criticisms The AVN has been the subject of several complaints to (and investigations by) Government departments and medical authorities.
Steins;Gate was nominated for the 43rd Seiun Award in the Best Media category in 2012, but lost to Puella Magi Madoka Magica.
He separates his Propaganda Model from conspiracy in that he is describing institutions following their natural imperatives rather than collusive forces with secret controls.
Anglican Bishop of London Henry Compton was strongly opposed to Roman Catholicism, and in 1669 published an English translation of The Secret Instructions.
Researchers describe the narrative's growth as an example of conspiracism built on “possibility” rather than evidence, linking unconnected events to suggest an imminent threat.
Discovery and content According to versions of its text, an employee of Boeing Aircraft Company discovered a copy inside a surplus IBM copier purchased at auction from McChord Air Force Base in July 1986.
Anne Morrow Lindbergh, married to Charles Lindbergh, encouraged him to put more emotion into his public speaking in general, but he dissembled from practicing, disliking rehearsal because he thought, in his words, that he "seem[ed] to lose spirit and feeling in the second reading".
Surgical masks may also help reduce exposure of others to the wearer's saliva and respiratory secretions.
Starting in March 2012, an additional title was published, Atomic Robo Presents Real Science Adventures, in which all writing was done by Brian Clevinger, but there were five different stories or chapters of stories, continued each issue, each drawn by a different artist.
That Freemasonry is a Jewish front for world domination or is at least controlled by Jews for this goal.
By August 2006, the task force consisted of 12 people, including two pathologists, a toxicologist, an ethicist, a mental health expert, and specialists in infectious, parasitic, environmental and chronic diseases.
The juiced ball theory made a resurgence in the late 2010s, as a noticeable uptick in offensive output, especially home runs, was observed.
In February 2023, Conspiracy Watch wrote that Baud "is both in the denial of war crimes and in the systematic defense of Vladimir Putin".
The 2024 romantic-comedy Fly Me to the Moon depicts the creation of a fictionalized version of the Apollo 11 mission in case the actual one is not successful.
Beard had argued that Franklin Roosevelt secretly and intentionally maneuvered the country into World War II.
The movement opposes the French Zionists, who he accused of playing a game contrary to the interests of France and the French Jewish community.
The study suggested hypothetical disease mechanisms linking mRNA vaccines to various pathologies through immune suppression.
Work Johnson is the author of nine books, including The Cancer Chronicles (2013), The Ten Most Beautiful Experiments (2008) and Strange Beauty: Murray Gell-Mann and the Revolution in 20th-Century Physics (1999), and writes for a number of publications, including The New York Times.
Examples may include such conspiracy theories as those concerning the Kennedy assassination, 9/11, and the spread of AIDS.
The video was soon revealed to be a United States Air Force F-15 jet filmed by a YouTube airplane enthusiast in Wales filming the jet within the Mach Loop three months before.
Show developer David Benioff said he was inspired to explore this concept by "the famous story of when Robert E.
Season 7 Armaan Kohli was arrested from the set of the show when a complaint filed by British singer-actress Sofia Hayat for allegedly assaulting her during their stay in the show.
Season 1 (2017) Season 2 (2018) Season 3 (2019) Soundtrack Compilation soundtracks have been released for the first three seasons, as well as score albums featuring the show's original score by Eskmo.
Vulgarity and depiction of racism The show further lampooned the controversy surrounding its use of profanity, as well as the media attention surrounding the network show Chicago Hope's single use of the word "shit", with the season five premiere "It Hits the Fan".
Production Director Anna Hall said that she wanted to document the work of social workers because other services such as doctors and the police were frequently the subject of documentaries, and social workers were only heard from when things went wrong.
It also stars Priyamani, Sharad Kelkar, Neeraj Madhav, Sharib Hashmi, Dalip Tahil, Sunny Hinduja and Shreya Dhanwanthary.
The memorial was closed off to the public for several months during filming, as the production crew claimed to have permits from the Ministry of Culture and Media and the municipality.
In addition, Milloy received almost $100,000 a year from Philip Morris USA during the time he was arguing that secondhand smoke was not carcinogenic.
Sweden Al Jazeera has been criticized for repeatedly spreading disinformation about Sweden, such as accusing the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare of kidnapping Muslim children and having them raised by homosexual parents.
Parker and Stone usually reply to such controversies by regarding themselves as "equal opportunity offenders".
(BCCL) lodged a complaint against Goswami and Prema Sridevi, a journalist with Republic TV, under the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act, 2000 accusing them of copyright infringement.
On 6 September 2021, Times Now was criticised for a report using video that suggested a Pakistan Air Force jet was hovering over Afghanistan's Panjshir Valley.
Directed by Hazim Al-Sha'arawi, the show is hosted by a young Saraa Barhoum and a large costumed character, who perform skits and discuss life in Palestine in a talk show fashion with call-ins from young children.
According to Nielsen, the premiere episode of the second season drew 6.08 million viewers in the U.S.
Fox News suggested that, because he was still suffering from the effects of his stroke, Hayes was hospitalized and not in a position to make a rational decision to leave the show.
The announcement of Confederate was followed by anger and criticism on social media with some describing it as slavery fan fiction.
Some time later fact checkers including France 24 announced that it was a gameplay footage from a video game called ARMA 3.
Plot When the Griffin family decide to go for a hike in the local woods, Chris and Stewie get lost while chasing after a floating butterfly.
Nahoul (July–February 2008) Nahoul is a bumblebee character with a high-pitched voice who co-hosted Tomorrow's Pioneers with Saraa following Farfour's death.
Peter stalls for time during the search (as he just wants to feel the victim's daughter's breasts), eventually resulting in a gruesome death when the bomb explodes, prompting Peter to flatly admit that he actually has no psychic powers whatsoever.
MSNBC host Joy Reid commented on the show, saying: "It plays to a rather concrete American fantasy: slavery that never ends, becoming a permanent state for black people.
BCCL alleged that the two, previously employed with Times Now, that it owns and operates, had used its intellectual property (IP) in telecasting certain audio tapes that were in their possession during their time at the channel.
News State Maharashtra Goa, a Free To Air (FTA) Marathi-language news channel for the audience of Maharashtra and Goa was launched in 2022.
So I had to learn a lot of heavy duty lines." Dimple Kapadia plays the parallel lead role of Anuradha Kishore, who competes against Samar to become the prime minister.
The show rose quite a few questions in Dutch parliament about the depiction of Her Majesty the Queen.
But our experience on Thrones has convinced us that no one provides a bigger, better storytelling canvas than HBO." Joining as executive producers would be Nichelle Tramble Spellman, Malcolm Spellman, Carolyn Strauss, and Bernadette Caulfield.
Filming Filming for the series took place in the Northern Californian towns of Vallejo, Benicia, San Rafael, Crockett and Sebastopol during the summer of 2016.
VPRO was reprimanded by the minister of culture, narrowly escaping having its broadcasting hours cut.
That same year, Aaj Tak also came under criticism for propagating a false claim that the Indian Army had retaliated against Pakistan following attacks against Indian personnel in Kashmir.
Rejecting Putin's statement that Ukraine is "artificial," the historian Sergey Radchenko said: "Countries are created as a result of a historical process ...
On the afternoon of July 18, 2016, a group of delegates sought to force a roll-call vote on the proposed convention rules package adopted by the Rules Committee.
In 2024, Firstpost reported a claim from The Economic Times that Sheikh Hasina had alleged American involvement in regime change in Bangladesh, which was later disputed by Hasina's son, Sajeeb Wazed, who claimed that Hasina had never made such a statement.
Mishra tweeted a Google forms link (which is still active and can be accessed from the original article) asking for details such as the name, mobile number and email-ID of the respondents, calling them to join the Hindu Ecosystem.
Discussing the furore around the show, Atkinson has also stated that three quarters of the cast were Jewish and did not consider the concept controversial.
Prior to launching India TV, Sharma was previously the anchor of Aap Ki Adalat on Zee News and Janata Ki Adalat on Star News (now ABP News).
Former White House director of management and administration Marcia Lee Kelly was named convention president and CEO in April 2019.
I want to be able to use the position that I've created with my hard work as an actor and be able to back the stories, people and talent." Writing Sudip Sharma began writing Paatal Lok in the beginning of January 2017.
Programming TV9 Bharatvarsh broadcasts news programs covering national and international news, politics, business, sports, and entertainment.
Schippers' Televisiepraktijken - sinds 1962; bonus material includes and the television plays De ondergang van de Onan (April 1976) and Echo's uit het Alpendal (August 1976).
Supporting People around Lim Soo-ho Kim Min-kyu as Joo Gyeok-chan, a North Korean agent, who is prone to violence.
The show spoofs elements of mid-20th century American sitcoms and is driven by Hitler's inability to get along with his neighbours.
Reliance Industries already had indirect control of the TV18 network by virtue of investments it made in Network18 starting from January 2012.
21st Century Fox hired the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison to conduct an investigation into Walsh's allegation; that firm also conducted an investigation into the allegations against Ailes.
Thomas Oppermann, leader of coalition partner SPD's Bundestag faction, criticised the decision: "I think this decision is wrong", he said.
In an interview with Indian Express, Gaurav Solanki stated "Tandav, which will be majorly shot in Delhi, is centred around the power corridors of Indian politics.
However, in an interview given after his clash with Robinson, he said he believed it was the fault of the BBC's London-based staff rather than BBC Scotland itself.
After Bryce breaks his knee at the homecoming game and causes him to lose his college scholarships, Zach assaults Bryce at the river pier, breaking one of his legs and an arm.
In 2025, it passed off an unrelated image from a 2021 video as being that of the perpetrator of the 2025 Pahalgam attack.
Rudi Carrell: das Image eines Stars in der Geschichte des deutschen Fernsehens [Rudi Carrell: the image of a star in the history of German television] (in German).
Charlotte: Monday, August 24 Morning session The official business of the 2020 Republican National Convention, including the formal nominations of President Trump and Vice President Pence, was held in Charlotte, North Carolina.
It was widely acclaimed for its skillful depiction and retelling of the Civil War events, and also for drawing huge numbers of viewers into a new awareness of the historical importance of the conflict.
Later that day, BuzzFeed News published the entire 35-page dossier with a disclaimer that it was unverified and "includes some clear errors".
The executive director of the Jewish Community Centre of Kraków, Jonathan Ornstein, a Jewish source used in the film, said: "I am furious at the way the BBC has exploited me as a source.
We Report – You Decide.'" The issue had come up in 2008 during the Presidential campaign, and had largely disappeared from the media spotlight until Dobbs picked up the issue again.
However, it stated that the documentary had fallen short in assessing other shortcomings of the Modi administration, and in understanding the links between religious majoritarianism and gender and caste.
Synopsis The show revolves around Hathiram Chowdhary (Jaideep Ahlawat) a cynical police officer who gets assigned to investigate a high-profile case.
Malcolm Spellman stated "Me and Nichelle are not props being used to protect someone else", adding there would be "no whips and no plantations" in this show.
The same was confirmed by the creator duo Raj and DK, however they did not quote the controversy over Tandav.
Although ABP Network's regional language channels were also rebranded, they remained airing at 4:3 standard definition.
Thereafter on 31 May 2013, Firstpost took over a satirical website Fakingnews.com for an undisclosed amount.
India: The Modi Question is a 2023 two-part documentary series aired by BBC Two about the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his relationship with the Muslim minority in the country.
Two volumes of these messages were leaked publicly, containing alleged messages showing close links between Dasgupta and Goswami.
Upon arriving at the lot, the camera crew was let off the bus so they could record Trump and Bush disembarking and meeting with Arianne Zucker, who portrayed Nicole Walker on the soap opera and appeared alongside Trump in the episode in which he guest starred.
Tomorrow's Pioneers also gained attention from Disney, who ordered that the first co-host, Farfour, be written out of the show due to his strong resemblance to Mickey Mouse.
He predicted that if the United States stopped supplying weaponry to Ukraine, the war would "be over within a few weeks" and suggested that the U.S.
Jung Yi-seo as Shin Gyeong-ja, the president of the Dormitory Student Council who frequently sleep walks.
It described the portrayal of the Gujarat violence as "comprehensive", and called the documentary "sharp".
In 2022, it misreported a farmers protest in Balochistan, Pakistan, against the government's decision to buy onions and tomatoes from Afghanistan and Iran, as 'Sunni' farmers destroying tomatoes because they came from 'Shia' Iran as aid.
NDTV said that "replicating the quality of the first season is itself a marvel, and the Times of India said that season 2 justified its long wait.
Several days later, Al Jazeera director-general Wadah Khanfar issued a letter stating that the program violated the channel's code of ethics and saying that he ordered its programming director to take steps to ensure that such an incident would not recur.
Porter as dangerously misleading, since not only does he miss obvious signs of her suicidal ideations but says he cannot report her sexual assault to the police without her identifying the assailant.
The channel falsely claimed he had blocked traffic on the Srinagar–Jammu highway, but reports clarified that the actual cause was a landslide.
The channel published fabricated last tweets by the actor on the channel, claiming that they were made by him a few days before his death and then deleted.
Despite internal warnings labeling the act as "high risk", the BBC aired the set without delay or intervention, later admitting to "errors … both in the lead-up to and during Bob Vylan's appearance".
The complaint described the post as part of a "criminally motivated campaign" to mislead the public and defame Rahul Gandhi.
The ban was criticised by opposition politicians as censorship, and described as an assault on freedom of the press by commentators and human rights groups.
In contrast, the Indian National Congress leader Rahul Gandhi waited until 2015 to come to that platform.
Israeli leadership later said its soldier probably fired the round by mistake, while Al Jazeera insists she was deliberately targeted.
The fourth case involved two white mothers in Keighley who reported that their daughters were victims of a child sex abuse ring, mostly comprising British Asian men.
Confrontation between Arnab Goswami and Uddhav Thackeray Two Republic TV staff and a taxi driver were arrested on 8 September 2020 for allegedly trespassing on a farmhouse of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in Raigad district.
Regular programming on the channel La Une was interrupted for a news bulletin claiming that the Flemish parliament had issued a unilateral declaration of independence from the Kingdom of Belgium, mimicking the Belgian secession from the Netherlands some 175 years earlier.
The National Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) reprimanded the channel for a bias in their coverage of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation on 23 June 2016 for violating the Code of Ethics and Broadcasting Standards.
He thought the beginning of the episode with the fake epidemic for television ratings was unique before shifting to another episode about Mr.
He added that the criticism was designed by western and occupying powers to oppose Islam and the Palestinian cause.
Palestinian Media Watch has characterised the show's messages as "hostile", while others have argued that criticism of the show adds to negative stereotyping of Muslims in general.
Schippers with Wim van der Linden, Gied Jaspars, and Ruud van Hemert and broadcast by the VPRO in 1972-1973.
On December 15, 2009, PTC filed an indecency complaint about the episode "Business Guy" two days after its air date, citing a scene that included a lap dance as a possible violation of federal law regarding broadcast decency.
Reception of Trump's speech Philip Rucker and David Fahrenthold of The Washington Post found Trump's speech to be "relentlessly gloomy," and observed that Trump painted himself as an agent of change, while he cast Clinton as a defender of the status quo.
New Jersey governor and former presidential candidate Chris Christie called the speech "awful" and "selfish." New York Representative Peter T.
What had been originally rousing and at times bellicose songs such as the southern "Bonnie Blue Flag" or the northern "Battle Cry of Freedom" now suddenly sounded like heart-warming, lyrical melodies due to Schwab's interpretations.
In fact, that episode was highlighted in the Fox special TV's Funniest Moments that was broadcast on June 1, 2007.
Octavia Nasr firing In 2011, Chief Middle East correspondent Octavia Nasr was fired after a tweet saying she was "Sad to hear of the passing of Sayed Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah...
In 2013, News18 India launched, on channel 520 on the UK's Sky TV platform News18, a live version of the parent channel.
Trump also repeatedly attacked President Barack Obama and the Democratic presumptive nominee, Hillary Clinton, arguing that the country and world had become less safe during their time in office.
The government ban on the documentary has been frequently circumvented; clips from the documentary circulated on WhatsApp, Telegram, and Twitter, and VPNs were used to circumvent the ban.
Van Kooten and De Bie were trying to fight the populist tendencies of some of the other parties with their parody, but things turned out a bit differently: the Tegenpartij became so popular that it might well have gained several seats in parliament if it had actually taken part in elections.
United Kingdom UK officials, like their US counterparts, protested against Al Jazeera's coverage of the 2003 invasion of Iraq.
The term was also widely used at the time of the Citizenship Amendment Act protests and the 2020–2021 Indian farmers' protest, with the claim that the protests and the farmers were not being represented fairly and were instead being vilified as Khalistani supporters.
Aftermath for Michele Santoro Forza Italia, Berlusconi's party, sued RAI because of Santoro's show on six separate counts, which led to Santoro's dismissal.
Brent Bozell III wrote that he believed the episode "Holy Crap" promoted anti-Catholicism, and was the only episode that was animated by Film Roman to face controversy.
Climate change denial South Park has repeatedly mocked the concept of "climate change" and pushed forward "climate change denialist talking points".
Reception In its original American broadcast, "The Fool Monty" was viewed by an estimated 6.63 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/7 share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.
Recurring guest voice actors Lori Alan, writer Danny Smith, writer Alec Sulkin and writer John Viener also made minor appearances.
See also Final Solution, a 2004 documentary on the 2002 Gujarat violence Notes References External links India: The Modi Question, Part 1 ― BBC India: The Modi Question, Part 2 ― BBC India: The Modi Question at IMDb
October 2012: Jimmy Savile abuse scandal In early October 2012, it was found that a Newsnight investigation into allegations of sexual abuse by the late Jimmy Savile had been shelved shortly before it was due to be broadcast.
The Black Information Link (Blink), run by The 1990 Trust, campaigned for the rescheduled broadcast on 26 August 2004 to be pulled.
It covers a series of controversial policies, including the revocation of Kashmir's autonomy and a new citizenship law.
It centres on Adolf Hitler and Eva Braun, who live next door to a Jewish couple, Arny and Rosa Goldenstein.
She said that far-right parties had taken the film to be an endorsement of their views, while the left had seen the film as racist, both of which she denied.
Until Today) is an Indian Hindi-language television news channel owned by the TV Today Network, a part of the New Delhi-based media conglomerate India Today Group.
Malviya had posted an edited video of an incident from 2020–2021 Indian farmers' protest that violated Twitter policy towards fighting the spread of doctored media.
Season 11 Zubair Khan attempted suicide to get out of the show and was hospitalized for consuming pills after host Salman Khan blasted him for using abusive language against women of the house.
In its reply to an order to show cause, Al Jazeera said that all its maps are generated by internationally known software used by global news providers.
I am really proud of the team because you don't really pull off stuff like this in one day." The shooting was completed in May 2019.
The magazine was originally launched as a news-focused publication and later broadened its scope to include reporting and analysis across politics, business and public affairs.
Tribes of Europa is a German sci-fi television series created by Philip Koch that premiered on Netflix on 19 February 2021.
In 2009, the BBC brought the DMI project in-house and started work on a digital system to be known as Fabric.
2015 itself marked the 150th Anniversary year of the publication of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll, which the documentary was commissioned to celebrate.
Reception The website has misreported news on multiple occasions, according to fact-checkers including Alt News and Boom.
He also said: "Most Americans have no idea why Putin invaded Ukraine." Some American and European journalists disputed this and said that they had repeatedly been denied interviews with Putin and that some had been expelled or banned from Russia.
In 2023, it falsely claimed Pakistan denied airspace to India's plane carrying relief aid for Turkey.
It also featured a controversy when a joke about Fox News started a brief feud with political commentator Bill O'Reilly.
The channel also distributes content through digital platforms such as its website and social media channels.
Republic TV "removed the video from its website and YouTube account" after receiving the complaint but refused to comply with the NBSA order, instead filing an appeal.
That included protests from the American Life League and from Schiavo's family, who were upset over Family Guy's parody of Terri's case.
Another host, Abhisar Sharma, who challenged Modi's public safety strategies on ABP News, was fired that same day.
The police named Goswami and four others from ARG Outlier Media (that owns Republic TV) in their 1800-page supplementary charge sheet submitted in the Esplanade Metropolitan Magistrate Court.The court noted that false evidence supported the argument when it issued the order earlier.
To some the show appeared to be 'anti-television' (a hidden protest against TV productions being too polished and error free.) There were four episodes plus a Christmas special, Waar heb dat nou voor nodig.
Hannity and Fox & Friends host Steve Doocy have supported the practice, as did Carlson and Ingraham in late-March; on his March 30 episode, Carlson stated that "Of course masks work.
At the request of Kan, Israel was allocated to the second semi-final as the rehearsal date for the first one coincides with Yom HaShoah; the country was drawn to perform in the second half of the show.
Temporarily anozinizing our episode will NOT stop us from keeping Thetans forever trapped in your pitiful man-bodies.
Aroon Purie is the current chairman and editor-in-chief and Dinesh Bhatia is the current CEO of India Today Group.
The former Financial Times editor Lionel Barber — who interviewed Putin in July 2019 — told Politico Magazine he believed that Putin leveraged Carlson's sympathy for Russia.
The programme proved controversial, with Hayim Pinner, secretary general of the Board of Deputies of British Jews describing the pilot as "in very bad taste," adding that the Board was opposed to "any trivialisation of the Second World War, Hitler or the Holocaust".
Aaj Tak has won the award for the "Best Hindi News Channel" 19 times, since 2001 at the Indian Television Academy Awards.
Jisoo as Eun Yeong-ro (20 years old), a freshman at Hosu Women's University in the English Literature Department and daughter of Eun Chang-su who is the director of the ANSP.
This caused controversy among the viewers and they accused Bigg Boss of partiality as both the housemates were involved in the fight but only one was ejected and the other was kept.
Amit Malviya is an Indian politician serving as the national convener of the IT cell of the Bharatiya Janata Party.
Synopsis The story is set in 2074, 43 years after a mysterious global technological failure caused nations to slip into anomie and fracture into dystopian warring tribal microstates.
In January 2019, a weekly English-language print edition of Firstpost began, and then ended in June 2019, with publication of Firstpost continuing online.
The incident was among the worst religious violence since India became an independent country in 1947.
See also Mass media in India List of news channels in India References Further reading Batabyal, Somnath (13 February 2012).
Social media backlash accused him of promoting divisive narratives against minorities and backward classes, urging a deeper understanding of the historical context of reservations for marginalized upliftment.
Representatives of Comedy Central insist that the episode was changed as a tribute to Hayes following his departure.
Madhu Trehan, a sibling of Arun Poorie and a graduate of Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, was the creator of Newstrack and also served as one of its anchors.
By December 22, there were at least 30 active petitions to the Blue House demanding the cancellation of the drama's broadcast.
The Cleveland 2016 Host Committee, who "facilitated construction of the 'cloakroom" space' for Republican lawmakers, which consisted of an "exclusive office, lounge and gathering space" built on the Cleveland Cavaliers practice court, received $923,100 from the Friends of the House 2016 LLC".
However, some negative numbers included the fact that 18% called Trump's speech "terrible," which was the highest number recorded in that category by CNN since it first started to ask the question in 1996.
However, some commentators also point out the crassness was intentional, and an element of the parody – among these is David Hawkes, professor of English, who cites Heil Honey, I'm Home!
Series creator Seth MacFarlane and composer Walter Murphy were nominated for their work on the song's lyrics and music.
In March 2019, a Kozhikode district court ordered the channel to pay a compensation of ₹50 lakh (US$59,000) to Malabar Gold in a defamation suit, after it broadcast edited visuals alleging the company of having celebrated Pakistani Independence Day.
His article also provoked strong reactions: the issue sold out quickly, at the same time that some readers canceled their subscriptions.
JTBC then continued, "the synopsis of Snowdrop was leaked in the early stages of production, malicious narratives that falsified the plot were circulated continuously and repeatedly.
In February 2025, Aaj Tak became the first news channel globally to reach 70 million subscribers on YouTube.
Aftermath for Enzo Biagi Enzo Biagi began a controversy with the RAI, and initially his show, Il fatto (The Fact) was moved to a late time, then moved to the channel Rai 3 and in the end cancelled.
Some suggested the woman was a stereotypical housewife of the past who left most political decisions to her husband, others that she was under-informed about the issues yet apparently too lazy to research them on her own.
Russia–NATO relations Putin conveyed to Carlson that Russia has no intention of attacking NATO members Poland or Latvia unless they attacked Russia.
NBC executives confirmed on the evening of October 8 that Bush's job was safe and he would address the controversy on the October 10 episode of Today.
Two days later, CNN published a story entitled, "How CNN found the Reddit user behind the Trump wrestling GIF", which labeled Reddit user "HanAssholeSolo" as the creator of the viral video.
Against the backdrop of political upheaval, the pair's story unfolds and the two develop a romantic relationship.
First of all, when we completed the film in 1989, we were operating under a very tight schedule and budget.
Viewership Television Streaming The episodes of Snowdrop were released weekly on Disney+ in Asia-Pacific regions simultaneously with the television airings.
Media houses and news entities alleged as Godi media include Zee News, Times Now, India Today, Republic Bharat, Republic TV, Aaj Tak, ABP News, Sudarshan News, CNN-News18, India TV, the TV Today Network, NDTV, Firstpost and others.
The row saw the BBC publish pieces such as Campbell wanted source revealed, detailing forcefully written diary entries made available in the Hutton Inquiry, leading to Campbell's resignation.
Matthew is a 17-year-old with 96 prior offences, whose case worker is trainee Omar; Matthew is white and Omar is Muslim.
Writing in 2025, Kenan Malik argued that Hall and other women had been bringing attention to child grooming for decades, in response to academic Matthew Goodwin's assertion that the issue was not in the media until 2011.
He nevertheless foolishly throws the cat aside before leaving, causing it to be actually be run over by another vehicle.
The CAG further said in its report that, "We had no assurance about the competitiveness of the rates quoted by these channels and the need and usefulness of these proposals.
Nickelodeon and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) was flooded with complaints over its "anti-American" content.
Tandav is a tale of manipulation that exposes the layers of human greed, ambition, love, vulnerability, and violence.
Using post-truth discourse, Republic TV has sparked communal tensions by broadcasting Islamophobic rhetoric, including the love jihad conspiracy theory.
Following Farfour's success, Palestinian Information Minister Mustafa Barghouti lobbied to have the show shut down, although this ban was later lifted, and in 2008, United States Representative Joe Crowley submitted House Resolution No.
The magazine began with a circulation of about 5,000 copies and grew to 15,000 by the end of the Emergency in January 1977.
Notices by the News Broadcasting and Digital Standards Authority In June 2022, the News Broadcasting and Digital Standards Authority said Zee News' headlines on Umar Khalid 'gave an impression that the accused had already been declared guilty' and asked them to take down the segments.
Twitter and YouTube blocked posts linking to the documentary on their platforms following legal demands from the Indian government.
These assertions were based on misleading data and unverified claims, including allegations of preferential treatment and undue benefits for Muslim aspirants.
The speech came despite Pompeo having warned other diplomats against "improperly" taking part in politics.
Večernji list's Denis Derk asked the Croatian public, "Are we ashamed that Bakić's monument is the backdrop for the European apocalypse?", while Jutarnji list's Jurica Pavičić described the landscape of a dystopian future as an unintentional allegory of modern-day Croatia.
Republic TV did not abide by the order yet again; incidentally, Goswami was the convener of the committee that drafted the code, years back.
The publication reports favourably on the Bharatiya Janata Party and has published misinformation on many occasions.
With a few exceptions, the government has made sure that the media outlets seek government approval for their reporting and in exchange, the channels are rewarded with contracts to host advertisements of government schemes and products of corporate entities.
The controversy led to Media Matters airing ads critical of Dobbs and of CNN, and to Jon Stewart mocking Dobbs on the satirical Comedy Central television series The Daily Show.
The channel has been widely criticised for blatant anti-Muslim communal broadcasting and has been considered to be a part of pro-Modi government news outlets in India dubbed the "Godi media".
Trump then announced that the convention would be moved to Jacksonville, Florida, but subsequently cancelled the Jacksonville convention plans on July 23.
Reception In April 2017, Chavhanke was arrested for allegedly inciting communal hatred through multiple episodes of a flagship program.
The story follows a broad swath of characters on both sides of the Mason-Dixon Demilitarized Zone – freedom fighters, slave hunters, politicians, abolitionists, journalists, the executives of a slave-holding conglomerate and the families of people in their thrall.
MTV Latin America's Mexican feed pulled the episode from broadcast in Mexico, sparking controversy among South Park fans in the country, many of whom viewed the decision as censorship.
The parents said that the gang were targeting girls aged 11–12, flattering them with gifts, and then drugging and raping them.
Music The theme song of the documentary is the instrumental "Ashokan Farewell", which is heard twenty-five times during the film.
The change was also replicated on other regional news channels operated by MCCS such as Bengali-language Star Ananda and Marathi-language Star Majha, which were renamed as ABP Ananda and ABP Majha, respectively.
News Epicentre and Epicentre Tonight: two late news shows focusing on topics that get lost in the heat and the noise of daily debates, presented by Deputy Political Editor Marya Shakil and Senior Editor Shreya Dhoundial respectively starting from 6 February 2018.
Derek O'Brien, a member of Parliament had raised the topic of online hate in the Rajya Sabha, India's upper house.
In December 2021, the magazine reported an increase in circulation following changes in distribution during and after the COVID-19 lockdowns.
On April 22, 2007 he returned to TV with a program called RT – Rotocalco Televisivo (Television Magazine), but after seven episodes he could not continue due to his worsening health.
On July 24, 2010, MacFarlane gave a live performance of the song at the 2010 San Diego Comic-Con, to an audience of nearly 4,200 attendees.
The series caused considerable controversy, particularly because of a scene in which the then-reigning Queen Juliana of the Netherlands was mocked.
Moitra accused the channel of false reporting and submitted a breach of privilege motion against Zee News and Sudhir Chaudhary.
Mahua Moitra filed a criminal defamation case against Sudhir Chaudhary, after which Chaudhary, on his daily prime time show, accepted that only a part of Mahua Moitra's speech was broadcast and showed his regrets.
In 2015, The Caravan reported on censorship in Firstpost over criticism of political leaders such as Arun Jaitley.
The organizers provided skeleton staffs of union workers for hospitals, water and electric utilities, and airports.
The Supreme Court further held that the National Assembly had not been prorogued and had to be reconvened by the speaker immediately and no later than 10:30 a.m.
Aftermath On 30 January 2008, Napolitano asked Franco Marini to attempt to form a caretaker government, with the goal of avoiding a snap election until a new electoral system could have been in place.
Following this, Congress would attempt to remove Tello from her position on the JNJ in early September 2023, approving an expedited investigation against the JNJ.
In 2000, the Canadian Alliance and Progressive Conservatives discussed forming a coalition government with the Bloc Québécois if, together, their three parties had won a majority of the seats in the 2000 election.
Former deputy prime minister John Manley, in an op-ed in The Globe and Mail, demanded that Dion resign immediately as Liberal leader.
Some of the militias were Kata'ib Hezbollah, Asaib Ahl al-Haq, Badr Organization (militia wing), Kata'ib al-Imam Ali and Quwat al-Shaheed al-Sadr (militia wing of the Islamic Dawa Party), which are all part of the PMF.
On 3 April 2021, Jordanian authorities arrested 19 people, including Prince Hamzah, who was put under house arrest.
That day, no murders were reported in the country and Bukele cited that as evidence that his policies were effective.
The Dorr War: Treason, Rebellion, & the Fight for Reform in Rhode Island (Arcadia, 2015) brief popular survey.
He, along with his sons and advisers, went to the market square and publicly proclaimed Mary queen; according to an eyewitness's recollection, he threw his hat in the air and laughed so hard that tears ran down his face.
PAD demonstrators occupied the runways of and closed down airports in the southern cities of Hat Yai, Phuket and Krabi.
Background In 1992, the previous coalition between Fianna Fáil and the Progressive Democrats, also headed by Albert Reynolds, collapsed.
The MCCARTHY Shutdown Act (a backronym of My Constituents Cannot Afford Rebellious Tantrums, Handle Your Shutdown Act) is a proposed United States federal law which (if passed) would prohibit members of Congress from being paid during a government shutdown among other provisions.
Options considered As a result of these rumours and arguments, the belief strengthened among the British establishment that Wallis could not become a royal consort.
15 November Attempting to save his government, Reynolds requested that Whelehan prepare a memorandum on the Smyth case, which was delivered on 15 November 1994.
Background Prorogation is a political process which marks the end of a parliamentary session, and also refers to the time between the end of one parliamentary session and the start of another.
In January 2021, the Centre Party-led government collapsed after a corruption investigation in which the Centre Party was accused of requesting financial support of up to €1 million within a year in return of the €39 million loan to Hillar Teder's real estate development in Tallinn.
Background Ousting of Imran Khan A political crisis began in Pakistan in 2022 when the opposition Pakistan Democratic Movement tabled a no-confidence motion against Imran Khan.
——— (1968), German Politics and the Spiegel Affair: A Case Study of the Bonn System, Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press (reviews at JSTOR: The American Historical Review, The Western Political Quarterly).
He also said that the court would have to consider the extent to which it is permitted to issue directions to holders of other constitutional posts, such as that of the speaker of the assembly.
The Court declared the 8 March 2023 publication of Decrees 340, 341, and 342 legally invalid and voided all actions taken under them.
As early as August 8, Staaff was able to inform Hammarskjöld that the government's proposal on infantry training time could now count on such support from the Liberal Party that it had the backing of a majority in the Riksdag.
Sipilä's government retained a majority in Finland's parliament as the Finnish Reform Movement continued as a member of the coalition.
On the night of 11 September 2025, armed members of the Viv Ansanm gang entered Labodrie and began shooting indiscriminately, they then set the entire village on fire.
The house of Advocate Latif Khosa, former Governor of Punjab, was attacked by armed men after he made a speech against the interim government in Punjab and the trial of civilians in military courts.
The recalculation saw the votes of all parties change, with the biggest drop for DPS–Peevski, and also that Velichie had passed the threshold, which meant other parties' seat totals were reduced.
Crisis On 30 June 1953, Oliver Lyttelton, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, gave a speech in London in which he made a "passing reference" to the possibility "...of still larger measures of unification and possibly still larger measures of federation of the whole East Africa territories".
The most severely affected cities were Lahore, Rawalpindi, Sargodha, Gujranwala, Faisalabad, and Multan, with variable numbers of cases reported in each place.
Although the vote was detrimental to Șova (79 to 67), PSD senators made use of a provision in the Rules of the Senate, ignoring the Constitution.
Journalist Rospide Petion was killed on his way home from the Radio Sans Fin in Port-au-Prince on 10 June 2019 by an unknown gunman.
This left a perfect 30–30 split in the council, with the Committee of Freedom losing their majority and paralyzing the government.
Grocery and wine merchant James Pillar, known as 'Pa' or 'Papa', pleaded guilty to buggery, and was sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment, the judge noting that Pillar was named in the trials of all the other men.
South Africa passed His Majesty King Edward the Eighth's Abdication Act 1937, which declared that the abdication took effect there on 10 December, meaning abdications took place on three separate dates across the Commonwealth.
Unexpectedly, the most surprising insurgent group proved to be the ultranationalist Liberal Democratic Party led by Vladimir Zhirinovsky.
The Republicans and the DFL disagreed over how much would be spent on state healthcare programs and public schools, and what sources of revenue would be used for this funding.
Signs near the entrance of the Statue of Liberty ferry posted on October 1 to inform tourists of the closure and provide information on another option of sightseeing tour by ferry.
He also has lost the support of many senior Pakistanis." Analysis Concerns about the way in which Khan was arrested have led some political commentators, lawyers, and journalists to criticize the arrest.
Transition under the SCAF regime Following Hosni Mubarak's resignation on 11 February 2011, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF) under Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi assumed control of the country.
On February 12, 1934, SDAPÖ and its paramilitary wing (Republikanischer Schutzbund) started an armed rebellion against Dolfuss, which was later joined by the Communist Party of Austria (KPÖ), which had already been banned by the government in 1933 and was operating underground.
Helen La Lime, the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Haiti, said that some of the gunmen holed up in two buildings in Port-au-Prince.
Earlier protests Gruevski called for protests on 26 February with the words "all those who plan to sit at home and to watch TV believing that someone else will do their job to protect their country, are mistaken" against the formation of a new coalition government.
Whether this controversial opinion is true or not, few doubt that Ratu Sir George Cakobau was pleased to be able to reappoint the government dominated by indigenous Fijians.
He re-entered Venezuela on 4 March, via Simón Bolívar International Airport in Maiquetía, and was received at the airport by diplomats and in Caracas by a crowd of supporters.
Following further negotiations, held in London, the Namirembe conference recommendations were adopted as the Buganda Agreement of 1955 and Mutesa returned triumphant to Buganda.
See also 2012 Montenegrin parliamentary election 2016 Montenegrin parliamentary election == References ==
3) scrapped the "genuinely seeking work" clause in unemployment benefit, increased dependants' allowances, extended provision for the long-term unemployed, relaxed eligibility conditions, and introduced an individual means test.
On the Red Sea coast, these patterns of displacement intersect with the decline of artisanal fishing.
Jubaland On 10 November, Jubaland suspended cooperation with the federal government, citing constitutional violations.
Named the "December Agreement" (Decemberöverenskommelsen), the deal effectively lets a minority coalition govern without needing to form a parliamentary majority through a loyal opposition, with the only requirement being to become the larger of the two main blocks.
"Today there was justice", said Victor Ponta, after securing 235 votes in favour of his motion, four more than he needed.
Shortly after midnight on 10 April, the National Assembly voted and passed the no-confidence motion with 174 votes, a majority, removing Khan from office, and making him the first prime minister in Pakistan to be removed from office through a no-confidence motion.
The constitution of Venezuela limits the scope of the military courts to crimes of a military nature.
These opinions were not consistently adhered to through the 1980s, but since 1990 all funding gaps lasting longer than a few hours have led to a shutdown.
Litigation DAP chairman and Bukit Gelugor MP Karpal Singh issued a notice that he will file a lawsuit against the sultan and the new Barisan Nasional state government for acting beyond the state Constitution.
As Thierry Truel notes, "most of the dispatches sent to the prefects [...] are intended to remind them of the legal frameworks within which they can act, without falling under the blade of possible legal actions brought by republican opponents".
However, the BJP declined to form the government on 10 November because it was unable to attain a majority.
Confident of his re-election, he immediately appealed, the second judgment being able to take place only after the ballot.
Reagan vetoed a proposed appropriation bill that contained fewer spending cuts than he had proposed, the first veto of his administration.
On the following days, PD and M5S started working on an agreement framework, while left-wing party Free and Equal (LeU) announced that it would support a potential M5S–PD cabinet.
ECOWAS threatened economic sanctions should Niger change the constitution within six months of a national election, sent a commission led by the Nigerian President to consult with Niamey, and placed Niger on its upcoming meeting agenda, beside the coups in Guinea-Bissau, Guinea, and Mauritania.
The attackers, who had come from Savien, entered the town using canoes and met little resistance from the police.
Shiv Sena also requested the Supreme Court order the new government to prove majority in the legislative assembly.
PM Zandanshatar, who was one of the few prominent figures unseated in the 2024 elections, had a relatively weak political positioning after securing the premiership in June.
The crisis came to redefine the role of governor general throughout the Dominions of the British Empire, becoming a major impetus in negotiations at Imperial Conferences held in the late 1920s that led to the adoption of the Statute of Westminster 1931.
Additionally, the investigation targeted an organized group of lobbyists and state officers attempting to influence state institutions for their own enrichment.
Civic Democratic Alliance and Christian and Democratic Union – Czechoslovak People's Party then left the government.
Imran Khan spoke to the nation via video link, urging the judiciary and establishment to put an end to the "farce" and "think about the country".
Ivey was accompanied by one of Abrego Garcia's lawyers and a member of the union that Abrego Garcia belongs to, who also wished to meet with him.
A fifth election in November of that year saw the victory of the right-wing bloc, returning Netanyahu to lead the thirty-seventh government of Israel.
Humala was then imprisoned at the Piedras Gordas prison, later being transferred to a military prison in Chorrillos and then Ancón II until the end of his sentence.
Choibalsan's enthusiastic cooperation with NKVD agents in interrogating and torturing fellow Mongolians as part of the investigation raised his status in Soviet eyes and led to his later being made Mongolia's leader.
United Kingdom Until the passage of the Fixed-Term Parliaments Act in 2011, government shutdowns in the United Kingdom were impossible due to parliamentary convention.
The Act is an amendment to the Anti-Deficiency Act, which governs federal procedures during a lapse in annual appropriations.
Many of the injured were taken to the Saint-Nicolas hospital in Saint-Marc, where the survivors also fled.
As a result, four more House of Representative members under similar circumstances resigned their seats to re-contest them at by-elections.
See also 2010s in political history 2018 Karnataka Legislative Assembly election 2019 Karnataka Legislative Assembly by-elections == References ==
On 6 February, the Houthis declared themselves in total control of the Yemeni government, dissolving parliament and installing a Revolutionary Committee led by Mohammed Ali al-Houthi to lead the state in an interim capacity.
Mastella's decision arrived a few days after the Constitutional Court of Italy had cleared the hurdle for the holding of referendum on amending the electoral system: the reforms proposed would have made it harder for smaller parties like Mastella's to win seats.
Their demands were diverse but typically included dignity, bread, freedom, democracy, and social justice.
In 2022, their control of Croix-des-Bouquets extended to the prison, the voting station, and the only route connecting Port-au-Prince to the north of the island.
Gang activity On 17 March, a UNICEF aid container carrying critical items for infants and mothers was looted in that port, in the context of a healthcare crisis where 60% of the hospitals are unable to operate nationally due to medical supply and fuel shortages.
Names Ochlocracy comes from Latin ochlocratia, from Greek ὀχλοκρατία (okhlokratía), from ὄχλος (ókhlos, "mass", "mob", or "common people") and κράτος (krátos, "rule").
The entrance towards the D-Chowk (Islamabad) was blocked by hundreds of personnel from the Capital Territory Police not allowing protesters to come close by launching tear gas shells at the protesters.
Jordan is a constitutional monarchy but the king holds wide executive and legislative powers; he may dismiss the parliament and prime minister at will, personal freedoms are curtailed, and there are frequent crackdowns on political opposition.
Morales said he was open to dialogue not only with the governors but with mayors and different social sectors.
The Radio Pakistan premises in Peshawar were also targeted, with protesters setting fire to the main building and destroying dozens of historical audio recordings.
Critics have asserted that it would take half a year to organise the large number of by-elections which would ensue if all MPs who had crossed the floor were expelled.[6] The injunction was lifted on 8 August, after public protests ensued.
After the creation of a large coalition of majority (the so-called Alliance of National Unity), led by the former prime minister Viktor Yanukovych and composed of the Party of Regions, Socialists and Communists, Viktor Yanukovych became prime minister.
The DUP's vote share dropped almost 7% and lost three seats; despite this, unionists won two more seats than nationalists—37 seats to 35—and a marginally higher share of the vote.
The Arab League issued a statement urging Tunisia to "restore stability and calm and the state’s ability to work effectively to respond to the aspirations and requirements of the people".
Intergovernmental organizations Secretary General of the Andean Community of Nations Freddy Ehlers condemned the violence in Bolivia and called for dialogue between the government and opposition.
This court was described as a "court of law"; it would have a "Judicial Committee" of ten members which could make recommendations, but the decision of the "court" would be determined by a majority vote of members present.
Because the Orthodox church supported the king, the Venizelist movement took on an anti-clerical character.
Several members of King Bhumibol Adulyadej's Privy Council have asked protesters to seek a peaceful resolution to the situation.
Edwin Nand, a local journalist for Fiji TV, was imprisoned for 36 hours after he interviewed Dorney.
Hadi al-Amiri and Qais al-Khazali, leaders of Badr Organisation and AAH respectively, rejected the results, alleging "fraud" in the elections.
President Sirisena met with a Tamil National Alliance (TNA) delegation whom he asked to abstain from a vote of no confidence if it were moved.
In December 2020, the United States Office of Foreign Assets Control announced sanctions against Jimmy Chérizier, a former officer who became a gang leader, Fednel Monchery, and Joseph Pierre Richard Duplan, two officials in the Moise administration, for their alleged involvement in the massacre.
United Nations envoy Tiebilé Dramé said on 9 March that the UN was placing Rajoelina "under its protection in a diplomatic residence".
This uptick in gang violence also comes at a time when Haiti faces severe food and healthcare shortages.
Those convicted included YouTubers Adil Raja and Syed Akbar Hussain, journalists Wajahat Saeed Khan, Sabir Shakir and Shaheen Sehbai, commentator Haider Raza Mehdi, and analyst Moeed Pirzada.
The shutdown caused the furlough of 1,600 employees and cost the government $700,000 (equal to $2.2 million in 2024), mostly as a result of lost labor.
These names were revealed to be fictional and speculations that Milan Šrejber is the real sponsor behind these names showed up in media.
This was a formal arrangement, since the two Ministers held little power in a cabinet increasingly dominated by the Communist Party.
Civiletti's first opinion held that all government work must stop if Congress did not agree to pay for it.
The dispute began following the sudden death of the incumbent Member of Parliament for Nukufetau, Lotoala Metia, on 21 December 2012, resulting in both the government and opposition having seven representatives in Parliament.
Reports indicated that many victims remained unaccounted for days after the attack, while the Haitian national police have declined to comment publicly on the killings.
Cohen proposed devolving greater functions from the Protectorate to Buganda, but conditional on Buganda formally accepting its status as a "component part" of the wider Protectorate.
Gray confronted Senate majority leader Harry Reid and asked him to consider supporting the House bill which passed a day earlier, arguing that D.C.
A well-known Thai royalist scholar Sulak Sivaraksa decried Prayut's using the lèse-majesté law and called for the prime minister's removal from office.
As the results dropped in, relatively peaceful protests were organized in the University Square of Bucharest.
As a result, the 1924 customs union treaty was now compromised, and was no longer viable due to conflicting interests regarding accession to the EEA.
The group systematically practices murder, rape, mass abduction and the forced recruitment of children, making them one of Haiti's cruelest gangs.
Conflict between the Chamber and the president Prorogation of the Assembly and manifesto of the 363 (17–18 May) Marshal Mac Mahon recalled the duke Albert de Broglie to the presidency of the Council and the latter formed a right-wing government that marked the return to the moral order.
Mohamed Fazeen, another Raajje TV journalist, was arrested for "defying police orders" and was arrested the following day.
With Belgium liberated but the King still in captivity, Leopold was declared officially "unable to rule" in accordance with the constitution and his brother, Prince Charles, Count of Flanders, was elected regent.
On 2 April, the President, Viktor Yushchenko, following a meeting with Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych and Speaker of the Parliament Oleksandr Moroz, signed the first decree dismissing Ukraine's Parliament sparking another political and constitutional crisis in Ukraine.
22 March: The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Bulawayo, Pius Ncube, called for mass public protests to bring pressure to bear on President Robert Mugabe to resign.
Malawi became a republic within the Commonwealth, on 6 July 1966, when Banda became its first President.
Kim denied allegations that Yoon had ordered the military to storm the National Assembly to prevent lawmakers from convening and passing a resolution nullifying martial law.
The Greek president and Turkish vice president of the House of Representatives to be elected by the House as a whole and not, as at present, the president by the Greek members of the House and the vice president by the Turkish members of the House.
Also at that time, DNA changed his quality in this case from suspect to defendant, the premier relying on the right to silence, so that he didn't give any statement to the prosecutor.
Candidates Nominations opened on 29 March 2022 for the assembly election and closed on 8 April 2022.
Civiletti issued a revised opinion on January 18, 1981, that softened some aspects of the shutdown, allowing work that protects human safety or property to continue.
2) Ordinance 2021 enacted in March 2021 is an ordinance that emphasizes the issue of untrue news regarding the COVID-19 pandemic.
Reactions European Union European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker sent a letter of congratulations to Giuseppe Conte, adding "I am convinced that Italy will be able to play an important role in addressing European challenges".
The crisis began when President Vizcarra dissolved the Congress of Peru, citing a constitutional provision after its de facto rejection of a vote of confidence.
In the meanwhile, de Gaulle had met the German chancellor Konrad Adenauer on 14 September 1958 at his home in Colombey-les-Deux-Églises; he had sent a memorandum to US President Dwight D.
The second MacDonald ministry was formed by Ramsay MacDonald on his reappointment as prime minister of the United Kingdom by King George V on 5 June 1929.
Corzine maintained that the gap could not be filled by any other means due to the state's constitution and a ruling of New Jersey's Supreme Court.
The shutdown lasted nine days, until the legislature passed, and the governor signed, a 'lights-on' temporary authorization of spending, followed by a compromise budget agreement.
Arias indicated he intended to propose a reconciliation government headed by Zelaya combined with political amnesty.
Foreign In an official statement, United Nations secretary-general António Guterres said he "welcomed" the creation of the Transitional Presidential Council and urged "all Haitian stakeholders to continue making progress in putting in place transitional governance arrangements".
A new government was formed by the Maha Vikas Aghadi, a new alliance of Shiv Sena, the Indian National Congress, and the Nationalist Congress Party, under Uddhav Thackeray.
Overview The proposed amendments were: The veto rights of the Republic of Cyprus' Greek president and Turkish vice president to be abandoned.
After joining the party, he was given the ticket of Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh by Shivraj Singh Chouhan.
Secretary of State in Ohakea and the Australian Foreign Minister in Wellington, before returning to Auckland.
Rajoelina said on 31 January that he was taking control of the country due to the failure of Ravalomanana and the government to fulfil their responsibilities.
Amendments to the Parliament Act 1911 were made to prolong the life of the 1910 parliament following the outbreak of the First World War, and also that of the 1935 parliament due to the Second World War.
The torture video was shown to journalists on 29 March 2019, who were then allowed to convey its contents to the general public through written descriptions and drawings.
This also contradicted Lindner's assertion that the end of the government was a "calculated break" on the part of Scholz.
In correspondence with the customs union, a similar referendum was to be held in Liechtenstein at a similar time.
In the aftermath of the vote, Minister for Regional Affairs Mariastella Gelmini and Minister of Public Administration Renato Brunetta left FI.
The Court dismissed the Interim Cabinet led by Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama that had governed Fiji since the coup.
Javier Corrales, a Latin American politics professor at Amherst College in Massachusetts, said "without a popular mandate, [the government] are pushing forward some of the most objectionable aspects of their agenda".
That evening, Wong was arrested for sedition for writing several articles, including on the 1BLACKMalaysia campaign.
In Islamabad blocked one of the main highways in and out of the capital, people also lit fires and threw stones during this early event.
Vote on the education reform bill and the expulsion of Centre from government Later that day, the parliament voted on a government-proposed bill which was to make at least 50% of primary education be conducted in Estonian among other things.
This meant that HDZ finally succeeded in gaining the majority in the 50-seat assembly, which enabled the party to appoint their mayor, who was afterwards approved by Tuđman.
At the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, Bercow said he would "fight with every breath in [his] body" to prevent the suspension of Parliament, as he believed Parliament's right to sit and debate was sacrosanct.
The Supreme Court of El Salvador prohibited the President from calling the Legislative Assembly and also prohibited all public forces, including the Ministry of Defense, from exercising functions other than those allowed by the Constitution.
The ongoing war in Sudan is an example of a power vacuum in the aftermath of the Sudanese revolution.
Johnson, then a member of the opposition frontbench, was another high-profile supporter of the impeachment motion and wrote an opinion piece in The Daily Telegraph which accused Blair of "treating Parliament and the public with contempt".
Similarly, the government added in article 5 that all members must pursue the accelerated deployment of the international security force.
When asked about it later, however, the bishop claimed he had not heard of Wallis at the time he wrote the speech, and that it was an expression of disappointment at the King's conspicuous failure to attend church services regularly.
John Alexander On 6 November, Fairfax Media reported that Liberal MP John Alexander might hold British citizenship by descent, through his British-born father who migrated from the United Kingdom to Australia in 1911 at the age of three.
Shiv Sena, the NCP, and the INC rounded up their MLAs after Fadnavis' oath and kept them sequestered in various hotels and buses to prevent horse-trading.
A government crisis began on 21 June 2021 in Sweden after the Riksdag ousted Prime Minister Stefan Löfven with a no-confidence vote.
The importance of this was highlighted in Jackson v Attorney General, in which the lawfulness of the Parliament Act 1949 was questioned.
During an investigation by the National Assembly on 5 December, Army Chief Park An-su said he had been handed the text of the martial law notice only on the night of its declaration and was unaware of soldiers being deployed to the Assembly.
They were, however, stopped by the Gendarmerie by order of the government and threatened with the use of armed force.
The second war lasted until October 23, 2020, when all parties agreed to a permanent ceasefire and negotiations.
Thereafter, the Independent National Electoral Commission announced that National Assembly elections would take place on 20 August, and no referendum would be voted upon.
Initial legal investigations The DPK sought then Defense Minister Kim Yong-hyun's impeachment for proposing martial law to Yoon, and intended to file a criminal complaint against him.
Other tapes had apparent seconds-long deletions—obscuring key words—but Sirica decided that further analysis was tangential.
Sobotka decided not to resign after the ceremony, and on 5 May 2017 he announced that he would instead dismiss Babiš from government.
Muqtada Al-Sadr gave a speech that condemned the attack and ordered all armed operations and all protests to end in Al-Khadraa.
On the other hand, the 1992 Liechtenstein referendum on the same topic was accepted by 55.8% of voters.
See also 1975 Australian constitutional crisis Lascelles Principles Easter Crisis of 1920 2008–09 Canadian parliamentary dispute Notes References Further reading Esberey, J.
"'How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Autocracy': Kais Saied's "Constitutional Self-Coup" in Tunisia".
On 21 November 2021, PNL's negotiations with the PSD and the UDMR have been finally closed with a positive outcome for the forming of a new government.
On Friday, 6 December 2024, gang members affiliated with Felix killed at least 60 people, and more than 50 more were killed the following day when Felix's child died.
was originally declared insane, prompting many to theorize whether the fire was set on purpose to destroy evidence.
Political disintegration Central government split and first Mobutu coup Lumumba's appeal for Soviet support split the government and led to mounting pressure from Western countries to remove him from power.
Furthermore, the Court of Appeal found the trial judge to have erred in confusing the issue of whether the government has lost the confidence of the majority of the house with the issue of whether the Sultan has the power to dismiss the government.
Nasarudin rebutted the Prime Minister's statement and claimed his decision was due to the mood of his constituents.
Misinformation Since the drone strike, various media channels and movements have encouraged conspiracy theories related to the assassination attempt.
It however stipulated that no candidate could be proposed more than three times, and that MPs must be present to vote during the sessions.
According to Villanueva, Benavides had a direct relationship with Popular Force leader Keiko Fujimori in order to end the Cocktails case against her.
On 24 September, the Congress of People's Deputies voted to hold simultaneous parliamentary and presidential elections by March 1994.
This intransigence prompted Cohen to hand him a letter at a final meeting on 30 November 1953 confirming that, under the provisions of Article 6 of the 1900 Agreement, the British Government was withdrawing its recognition of him as the legitimate ruler of Buganda.
Doctors' strike Situation in hospitals, poor payroll and lack of staff pushed the doctors to launch an ample program of protests aimed to alarm the minister Eugen Nicolăescu over collapse of Romanian health system.
This was the first big defeat for both Johnson and the Conservatives since the 2019 Brecon and Radnorshire by-election, also a Liberal Democrats gain.
On April 17, asked if he would bring back Abrego Garcia, Trump said that he was "not involved in it ...
PTI planned to hold a sit-in at D-Chowk, Islamabad until the date for the dissolution of assemblies and new general elections were announced.
Speaker of Parliament Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula received the Phala Phala report from former Chief Justice Sandile Ngcobo, chairman of the Section 89 panel, on the 30 November 2022.
The Salem Witch Trials in colonial Massachusetts during the 1690s, in which the unified belief of the townspeople overpowered the logic of the law, also has been cited by one essayist as an example of mob rule.
In a ceremony at the Palais de la Nation in Léopoldville, King Baudouin gave a speech in which he presented the end of colonial rule in the Congo as the culmination of the Belgian "civilising mission" begun by Leopold II.
See also 2022–2025 Pakistan political unrest No-confidence motion against Imran Khan 2025 political crisis in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 2022 Pakistan economic crisis 1953 Pakistani constitutional coup Military coups in Pakistan References Ahmad, Javid (2022-04-07).
Reactions International Colombia: The Colombian foreign ministry asked Haiti to provide "special protection" to the 18 ex-Colombian soldiers convicted of the assassination of Jovenel Moïse who remained in their cells during the jailbreak.
'Ram has come, Ram has gone') is a Hindi expression referring to turncoats, who switch parties in the context of a legislative body.
By mid-2025, planned district-level elections had been postponed, with pilot direct elections rescheduled for Mogadishu in October 2025.
Day 2 At 5 in the morning of January 2, 2005, the rebels ambushed a patrol car of the Green Squadron of the Peruvian Police near the police station, reportedly killing police officers Carlos Cahuana Pacheco, Luis Chávez Vásquez, Ricardo Rivera Fernández and Abelardo Cerrón Carbajal.
The President of the Republic whose vacancy is the subject of the request may personally exercise his right of defense or be assisted by a lawyer, for up to sixty minutes.
Unlike the Democrats, these Republicans are seeking more funding cuts and are generally opposed to a new deal between Republicans and Democrats for Homeland Security funding.
The sudden rise in letters to Graham Brady, chairman of the 1922 Committee, which made this vote possible was partially as a result of an incident before the Platinum Jubilee National Service of Thanksgiving, where Johnson was booed by crowds outside St Paul's Cathedral.
"The Transition to National Armies in the Former Soviet Republics, 1988–2005." Oxfordshire, UK: Routledge.
Left-wing parties called on their members to join the nationwide demonstrations, with the Socialist Party being the only main alliance member of the NFP to not explicitly call on its supporters to participate.
That evening, Truss said she was "sorry for the mistakes that have been made", but added that she remained "committed to the vision" and would lead the Conservatives into the next general election.
Kenyon subsequently became a co-author of Of Pandas and People which rebranded creation science as intelligent design.
Thurtle (2007), referencing Walter Benjamin, claims that the work owes more to the "storytelling" genre than to strictly scientific enquiry.
Lyell's response is recorded in his archive, held at the University of Edinburgh's Heritage Collections, who have also created a dedicated website to Lyell's work.
Mullett also described the book as scholarly but noted that the book contains a "slough of misrepresentation".
Although Greenworld has so far only been published in Japan, Dixon has expressed interest in getting an English-language version published.
On the Interpretation of Nature (or Thoughts on the Interpretation of Nature, French: Pensées sur l'interprétation de la nature) is a 1754 book written by Denis Diderot.
The percentage of students who held the view that there was a conflict between religion and evolution was reduced by about half.
Dr Tatiana receives letters from various creatures about their sex lives, and responds by explaining the biology of sex to creatures concerned.
Wolf-Meyer assessed Man After Man in 2019 as "humanity’s ultimate humiliation in the face of the world they had created".
Goldberg (1997) The virtue of human universals and cooperation: A review essay of Matt Ridley's The Origins of Virtue See also Animal Faith Evolutionary ethics Evolution of morality
Chapter 5: Welcome to the Anthropocene Kolbert uses the extinction of graptolites and other clades to explain glaciation as a mechanism for extinction.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
This competition produces a constraint that tends to mold organisms into forms that are more adapted to their environments – forms that would otherwise not spontaneously persist.
The solution of this chicken-and-egg problem, according to Deacon, is the subtle evolutionary process of co-evolution.
However, if current emission intensities remain as they are today, by 2060, there will no longer be a region above 3.5.
Writing to colleague Asa Gray in 1860, Darwin commented that he remembered well a "time when the thought of the eye made me cold all over, but I have got over this stage of the complaint, & now small trifling particulars of structure often make me very uncomfortable.
She argued that because biology and botany were fields dominated exclusively by men, the interpretation of natural facts was inherently skewed toward a male perspective.
The molecular evidence showed that DNA changes more often than what was originally expected and no real pattern was found.
The series was inspired by a course of 'Darwin Seminars' which took place at the London School of Economics−LSE in London in the late 1990s.
By 1980, evidence of the KT boundary and high iridium levels had been independently reported on at dozens of other sites, moving Alvarez's hypothesis toward a global hunt for the impact crater, in competition with several other scientists such as Jan Smit.
Yule stating that "Oceans of Kansas offers a well researched and often engaging account of the paleobiology of the Western Interior Seaway...".
The book contains a very useful summary of Majerus' work on melanism in ladybirds and a review of the peppered moth story, including observations on moth behavior which sparked controversy.
By showing how completely extant animals might be misunderstood if known only from skeletal remains, All Yesterdays shows that our own conceptions of extinct animals are likely equally mistaken.
In mindware “the human ape found a brain programming language to bond across time and place—symbolic culture.
Fisher later acknowledged Darwin's influence by dedicating The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection to Major Leonard Darwin, Charles Darwin's son.
Essay "Dinomania" is a review of Michael Crichton's novel Jurassic Park and Steven Spielberg's blockbuster film of the same name.
Laden concludes that "A Troublesome Inheritance is itself troubling, not for its politics but for its science.
Williams, containing papers written by biologists arguing against the view of group selection as a major force in evolution.
It went through three editions (1933, 1945, 1966) and for many years constituted a very authoritative work and the definitive coverage of the subject.
For decades the most enlightened writers in the fields of science and religion had accepted that much of the Old Testament, and Genesis in particular, had to be read in a metaphorical sense...
Pratt wrote on the second edition that "This edition needs to be seen anew, despite much of the same text and many of the same illustrations.
Darwin starts with dogs and cats, discussing the similarities between wild and domesticated dogs, and musing on how the species changed to accommodate man's wishes.
Maynard Smith and Szathmáry identified several properties common to the transitions: Smaller entities have often come about together to form larger entities, e.g.
Within a few centuries, Johnnie's descendants have consumed the planet entirely and leave the Solar System.
Wrangham argues that humans have domesticated themselves by a process of self-selection similar to the selective breeding of foxes described by Dmitry Belyayev, a theory first proposed by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach in the early 1800s.
Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex is a 2002 popular science book by the British evolutionary biologist Olivia Judson written in the role of her alter ego, agony aunt Dr Tatiana.
The Creationists: From Scientific Creationism to Intelligent Design is a history of the origins of anti-evolutionism by Ronald Numbers.
- by Simon Conway Morris The disparity of the Burgess Shale arthropod fauna and the limits of cladistic analysis - by Stephen Jay Gould
The more they farm, the more their population rises and the more they are obliged to farm, because only by farming can they feed the extra mouths." References External links Yale Press.edu: Short summary of the book Edge.org: Biography of Colin Tudge Archived 2003-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
Importance of the book The experiments with the peppered moths, as described in this book, are arguably the most dramatic and best known case of adaptive evolution.
Details In the Presence of Dinosaurs focuses predominantly on the dinosaurs of North America over the course of five different time periods and details the flora, fauna, geology and geography of each time period in a manner akin to a naturalist's viewpoint.
In that book, Deacon notes that much of the mystery surrounding language origins comes from a profound confusion about the nature of semiotic processes themselves.
However, some of Benton's classification differs from that in the Tree of Life Web Project, especially regarding the relationship of early amphibian groups (Batrachomorpha and Reptiliomorpha).
The politically conservative magazine National Review voted Darwin's Black Box one of their top 100 non-fiction books of the century.
Everhart, Adjunct Curator of Paleontology at the Sternberg Museum of Natural History and past President of the Kansas Academy of Science.
But they have to live in an unnatural environment, and are both likely to have problems in developing healthy social relationships, both are liable to suffer from isolation and boredom, and both live in a limited amount of physical space.
The concept of extended phenotype has been generalized in an organism-centered view of evolution with the concept of niche construction, in the case where natural selection pressures can be modified by the organisms during the evolutionary process.
It was originally published in hardcover in Great Britain by HarperCollins Publishers, under the title Life: An Unauthorised Biography.
Content The first edition of The Dinosauria includes 29 chapters organized into two sections, the first on "Dinosaur Relationships, Biology, and Distribution" and the second on "Dinosaur Taxonomy".
The third considers the evolution of dominance, which Fisher believed was strongly influenced by modifiers.
The controversial conclusion is that willed action can alter our evolutionary history and genetic composition, by changing the environment to which we have to adapt.
It is a book you can lay on the table and let visitors leaf through and chat about, enjoying the pictures and the fine prose at the same time." A review in BioScience calls it "an accessible and elegantly designed volume that most biologists will want to buy.
Richard Dawkins in Unweaving the Rainbow (1998) references Medawar's review as "devastating", and characterises The Phenomenon of Man as "the quintessence of bad poetic science".
"Skeptic of the conflict" Swamidass concludes his book by stating that he is a "skeptic of the conflict" between science and Genesis.
Vertebrate Paleontology and Evolution is an advanced textbook on vertebrate paleontology by Robert L.
The tone is lighthearted but not overdone, with humorous shifts of facial expressions and postures as the world changes with each page turn.
Darwin and the Science of Evolution (UK title: Charles Darwin: The Scholar Who Changed Human History; French: Darwin et la science de l'évolution) is a 2000 illustrated biography of Charles Darwin, and a monograph on his theory of evolution.
At the rear of the book is a phylogenetic classification which combines both the Linnaean hierarchy and the cladistic arrangement, and has been used as a guideline for the Wikipedia pages on living and extinct vertebrate taxa.
Eyes have convergently evolved several times, as Dawkins discusses in "The Forty-Fold Path to Enlightenment" in Climbing Mount Improbable.
Morris introduces his section on geology with the frank statement that Bible-believing Christians face "a serious dilemma" because contemporary geologists present "an almost unanimous verdict" against the biblical account of creation and the Flood.
Latest publishing The latest edition, the fifth edition, was cowritten with Michael Morales and Eli C.
Whitcomb and Morris instead published with the smaller Presbyterian and Reformed Publishing Company, whose owner Charles H.
Darwin's Cathedral: Evolution, Religion, and the Nature of Society (ISBN 9780226901350) is a 2002 book by David Sloan Wilson which proposes that religion is a multi-level adaptation—i.e., a product of cultural evolution developed through multi-level selection.
Peter Jackson's 2005 film King Kong featured a complete ecosystem on the film's version of Skull Island populated with descendants of Mesozoic animals.
Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth is a book about natural history by British paleontologist Richard A.
A few points will suffice to show how similar Deloria is to outspoken creationist author Duane Gish or any of his ilk." Michael D.
The book was reviewed in the British Quarterly Review, Journal of Mental Science and the Quarterly Journal of Science.
Brandon Ogbunu refers to it as "one of the few evolution books that could truly be taught anywhere." See also Sean B.
The book was negatively reviewed in the British Medical Journal claiming "we are not sufficiently impressed by [the] author's arguments".
Beginning in the early twenty-first century, several increasingly devastating wars take place in Europe, which result in the United States and China becoming the two dominant superpowers on Earth.
He provides numerous examples of this both at the individual level and at the societal level, eventually discussing examples of self-deception in the history of the United States and Israel.
The Australopithecines separate man from the great apes, and the genus Homo is almost certainly an offshoot of the early australopithecines, upright apes of the wooded savannah (see human taxonomy).
Summary Better-World Philosophy is organized into nine sections, each outlining an aspect of Moore's sociological and ethical system.
He touches upon his personal life, reflecting on his father, the chemist Sune Bergström, with whom he had a relatively distant relationship, and on his own marriage and son.
Barrett's Metaphysics, Materialism and the Evolution of Mind – Early Writings of Charles Darwin (1980).
Universal acid Dennett writes about the fantasy of a "universal acid" as a liquid that is so corrosive that it would eat through anything that it came into contact with, even a potential container.
Following the 1859 publication of Origin of Species Darwin set out to produce evidence for his theory of natural selection.
The final chapter of part II dismisses directed mutation, the inheritance of acquired traits and Teilhard's "Omega Point", and insists that other controversies and hypotheses (like the unit of selection and Panspermia) have no dire consequences for orthodox Darwinism.
The Symbolic Species is a multi-disclipinary book that at the time of publishing was seen as groundbreaking.
He also looks at the relationship between science and race in the 19th century United States and the emergence and influence of scientific racism.
Baker, writing in Civil War History, described Lincoln and Darwin as "a profound comparison of the two men's perspectives and ...
In 1999, philosopher Michael Ruse wrote that Lewontin, by publishing the book, had "thereby establish[ed] himself (if there had been hitherto doubt) as the dominant figure in the genetics of evolution".
When possible, footage of actual live animals was used but other creatures, such as mammoths, had to be recreated through computer graphics.
See also March of Progress (illustration) References External links Wonderful Life Archived 2021-02-24 at the Wayback Machine - by Stephen Jay Gould The Cambrian "Explosion": Slow-fuse or Megatonnage?
An International Conference on Creationism, held every fifth year in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, produces papers of "considerable scientific and mathematical sophistication", and the movement attracts younger scholars with PhDs in the sciences, including even a few in geology.
Reception The idea of autoevolutionism has been described as a "minority opinion at the fringes of official circles of thoughts and of the mainstream." A review by multiple authors in the Origins of Life and Evolution of Biospheres journal noted: There are a few valid points in A.
"Otherlands" & Thomas Halliday on climate change Halliday indicates that humankind bears a huge responsibility in the trajectory of our contemporary climate change.
The text fancifully traces a fish in the water who “got tired of swimming” all the way up in its evolution to a human boy who can fly...The spare text is deceptively simple: there's a lot of science behind statements such as “One day there was a BOOM!
Evolution of the Vertebrates, subtitled "A History of the Backboned Animals Through Time", is a basic paleontology textbook by Edwin H.
Website An accompanying website to the series was launched in 2003, intended to act as a "stand-alone resource in its own right".
Influence The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change has been retrospectively described as a "landmark book".
However, there are also "Forced Moves" or "Good Tricks" that will be discovered repeatedly, either by natural selection (see convergent evolution) or human investigation.
It reflects well the state of dinosaur paleontology at the time of its publication, and is ordered and easily accessible.
Huxley, Thomas Henry (1859), "Time and Life: Mr Darwin's Origin of Species", Macmillan's Magazine, 1: 142–148.
Today's atmosphere has a similar composition as during the Oligocene (an epoch ranging from 34 million to 23 million years ago during the Palaeogene period shown within the table above).
Background Darwin had been working for two years writing his "big book", provisionally titled Natural Selection, when on 18 June 1858 he received a parcel from Alfred Wallace, who was then living in Borneo.
The book is then divided into three parts by era, first of which is The Rise of Life, which covers the Precambrian and the Paleozoic Era.
Others whose writings as prominent scientists were listed in the book's bibliography were Sir Arthur Eddington, Ernst Haeckel, Sir Julian Huxley, Sir James Jeans and A.
Combining perspectives from neurobiology, evolutionary theory, linguistics, and semiotics, Deacon proposes that language, along with the unique human capacity for symbolic thought, co-evolved with the brain.
Charles's wife Emma Darwin's correspondence was published by Charles and Emma's daughter (Frank's sister) Henrietta Litchfield in 1905/1915 as Emma Darwin: A Century of Family Letters.
Some of the illustrations in Man After Man have been turned into internet memes; particularly widespread is an illustration depicting a "woodland-dweller" attacking a "tundra-dweller", with the added text "Season's Greetings".
The book is a journey through 65 million years of palaeontological records, from the extinction of the dinosaurs to just before present.
"...pressure that humanity is placing on the planet." International Union for Conservation of Nature.
All of the Burgess animals, Gould argues, were exquisitely adapted to their environment, and there exists little evidence that the survivors were any better adapted than their extinct contemporaries.
Reception Subsequent to its publication, All Yesterdays has proven influential on the modern culture of palaeoart.
It mentions that "Aryan" culture was most likely the result of interaction, adoption, and adaptation among those who brought Indo-European languages to India and those who were already well-settled inhabitants of the region, and that Sanskrit and the Vedas developed in the Indian subcontinent.
The philosophical tool is commonly used in scientific discourse, and Behe notes that understandings of cellular structure and other aspects of microbiology were not much understood when Charles Darwin was alive.
A study at Arizona State University used the book as part of a two-week module, within an introductory biology course, focusing on science, evolution, and religion.
The first part, "A Guide to the Interpretation of Bone Accumulations in African Caves," details the processes and effects on how taphonomy occurs.
The negative user responses outweighed the positive ones, with some users being concerned that much of the programme appeared to be conjecture and that Robert Winston, or the programme as a whole, were dumbing down the science or "patronising" viewers.
See also Last and First Men, book of Olaf Stapledon All Tomorrows, book of C.M Kosemen Man After Man, book of Dougal Dixon Human evolution References Dixon, Dougal (2002-03-14).
Ayala and Bruce Alberts, highlight developments in evolutionary biology and its relevance to the study of emerging infectious diseases, the 2006 discovery of the transitional fossil Tiktaalik, and the application of evolutionary theory in many areas of science and engineering beyond biology.
It was not until one century later that feminists were working from inside the natural sciences, and could address Darwin's androcentricity.
The Design Revolution: Answering the Toughest Questions about Intelligent Design is a 2004 book by William A.
The book is written in question/answer format from Dembski's point of view as one of the conceptual leaders in the movement.
Reception The New Dinosaurs became a bestseller upon its release and like its predecessor After Man, The New Dinosaurs garnered positive reviews from critics.
When viewers meet the boy at the end, they also spot the pet fish that must have triggered his imaginative musings.
Essentially, Singer claims that although humans possess selfish, competitive tendencies naturally, they have a substantial capacity for cooperation that has also been selected for during human evolution.
Paul called the creature "perhaps the worst beast in the book" and "unbelievable", pointing out that he thought it was infeasible that pterosaurs would evolve into giraffe-like animals before the more dominant and already terrestrial dinosaurs.
On the other hand, extension of domestication packages along the North–South axis – as required in the case of the American and African continents – was much more difficult owing to severe imbalances of climate.
Summary The book is an expansion of the Jacob Bronowski Memorial Lecture in Natural Philosophy which Sagan gave at the University of Toronto.
- discusses the links of the Pioneer Fund to the distribution and positive reviews for the book Horowitz, Irving Louis (Jan–Feb 1995).
A Troublesome Inheritance: Genes, Race and Human History is a 2014 book by Nicholas Wade, a British writer, journalist, and former science and health editor for The New York Times.
Behe claims the underlying complexity and biochemical mechanisms of the systems are vastly under-appreciated, and identifies other, similar systems.
He knew that his readers were already familiar with the concept of transmutation of species from Vestiges, and his introduction ridicules that work as failing to provide a viable mechanism.
The book received generally positive reviews upon release and garnered the nickname "The Dinosaur Bible".
It is just a thoughtful, readable, and very stimulating book." Reviews In his review of The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change, Donald J.
Gerhard Lenski, in Social Forces, admitted that sociologists had too often ignored non-human societies, and thought the book should be required reading.
He concludes that game theory (the mathematical study of strategy) and experiments in psychology offer hope that self-interested people will make short-term sacrifices for the good of others, if society provides the right conditions.
How many other empirical studies have led directly on to a fundamentally revised view about the history of life?
Depending on how much CO2 is emitted, the Earth could very well be heading towards Eocene-temperature levels far faster than any underlying long term paleontology-cycle would suggest.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
Dobzhansky suggested that the preservation of extensive variation would allow populations to evolve rapidly as environmental conditions change.
I am confident that most of the signatories have not read my book and are responding to a slanted summary devised by the organizers." Wade added that he had asked the letter's main authors, Graham Coop and Michael Eisen, for a list of errors so that he could correct future editions of the book.
Although he avoids drawing any specific political points, Ridley ends his book by arguing for a smaller state operating on a more local level.
While preparing the text of The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication in 1866, Darwin began to explore topics related to human ancestry, sexual selection, and emotional life.
Part biography, part history of science and social documentary, this book takes readers on Darwin's journey of discovery.
References External links Supplementary Information to Dinosaurs: The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages by Thomas R.
a thrilling story that Gould tells in a way that no one else could equal." Some of the anatomical reconstructions cited by Gould were soon challenged as being incorrect, most notably Simon Conway Morris' 1977 reconstruction of Hallucigenia.
The release of the new edition was celebrated with an event hosted at Conway Hall in London on 11 September that same year, which included a joint talk with Dixon and British paleontologist and science writer Darren Naish.
The invention of engines that can surpass the speed of light has made it possible for the colony to explore far and wide; the second part finds them studying a planet orbiting the star Praesepe over 500 light years away.
He argues that this mindset contradicts the principles found in the Golden Rule, which encourages treating others as one would like to be treated.
Ashkenazi Jews The second major argument, which takes up the final chapter, sets out to explain why Ashkenazi Jews have a mean IQ so much higher than that of the population in general, as well as a higher rate of some genetic disorders such as Tay-Sachs disease.
Is it really inanity, or is it just plain laziness — or perhaps cynical awareness of the ignorance and stupidity of the target audience — mostly Muslim creationists.
Prior to this, a limited version of the exhibition (featuring 8 models rather than the 19 dioramas featured in the 1987 version) had been at the Newquay Zoo in Cornwall in 1983, in Japan in 1984 and in various locations within the United States from 1985 to 1986.
At the rear of the book is a classification list which includes every genus known at the time of publication, along with locality and stratigraphic range.
Some other taxonomic choices, such as the assignment of some genera to specific groups and the use of original clades (such as "minmids" and "paxceratopsians") also received some criticism.
Doughty, Innovation Journal Dinosaur in a Haystack Hooking Leviathan by Its Past Dinomania Cordelia's Dilemma Of Tongue Worms, Velvet Worms, and Water Bears Happy Thoughts on a Sunny Day in New York City Dousing Diminutive Dennis's Debate& Audio from the Prologue - MP3
Everhart also covers the discovery of the fossils and geographic records as well as the competition between E.
It was the first substantial textbook to argue the case for Darwinian selection applying to all aspects of animal coloration.
Pannekoek's pamphlet emerged amid discussions about the interrelation between the laws of natural selection and the laws of social development, as well as debates with the then-popular ideas of social Darwinism.
It was published still in the year of his death, with Éditions du Seuil, the publishing house of Catholic intellectual Jean Plaquevent (1901–1965).
The Journal of Mental Science found his mixture of science and theology untenable but praised Clair for his sincerity in accepting the evidence for evolution.
a worthy addition to the numerous individual studies of either man", and praised Lander for providing a new means of understanding and appreciating each man.
The book received anonymous reviews by biologist Alfred Russel Wallace that were generally supportive.
In particular, the first Ukrainian translation appeared in Winnipeg, published by the Ukrayinski Robitnychi Visti (1920).
Systematics and the Origin of Species from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist is a book written by zoologist and evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr, first published in 1942 by Columbia University Press.
Intelligent Thought: Science Versus the Intelligent Design Movement is a 2006 book edited by John Brockman and published by Vintage Books.
He gives detailed examples of warning coloration and mimicry, discussing how these are produced by selection.
The British Quarterly Review commented that: We congratulate the author on the ground of his conscientious and the scientific treatment of a profound and intricate problem.
Centuries later, officers Snowy, Ahmed, Sidewise, Bonner and Moon awaken and soon realize that human civilization has long collapsed.
Sections of the book dealing with punctuated equilibrium, primarily chapter nine, have been posthumously reprinted as a separate volume by Belknap Harvard.
The human species contributes to this disruption—even without intending to—because of our innate capabilities to alter the planet at this stage of our cultural evolution; for instance, we now can harness energy from beneath the Earth's surface.
The reason is that people already have moral judgments of real world cases such as abortion and euthanasia, so there is no intuition left.
The Faith Instinct: How Religion Evolved and Why It Endures is a 2009 book about the evolution of religious behavior by New York Times science reporter Nicholas Wade, in which the author argues that religious behaviours have evolved through natural selection.
It is impossible to separate thought from matter that thinks." However, in describing this dynamic as a function of the historical process of evolution, the essay is among the most explicit and comprehensive documents on the ontology of Marx and Engels.
Gould begins with the ancient Greek philosopher Anaximander, showing that the ideas formed a tradition leading to the French naturalist Charles Bonnet.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
The Psychical Kinship The second section discusses the mental and emotional similarities between humans and nonhuman animals.
The Princeton Field Guide to Dinosaurs is a reference work on dinosaurs written by the paleontologist and paleoartist Gregory S.
The two planets eventually make peace with each other, launching a wide-scale colonization initiative.
Introduction The book is part of the Sciences et techniques series (formerly belonging to Sciences series) in the "Découvertes Gallimard" collection.
Hand waving about the creative power of the organism makes a nice-sounding philosophical position but a poor scientific theory".
According to the translator's note, Harvard philosopher William James intended to write the introduction to the book's English translation, but died in 1910 prior to the completion of the English edition in 1911.
Nature cares for the species rather than for the individual; it lets the individual reproduce and then die.
He rebuts the claim that evolution cannot create complexity: since natural selection is non-random, it can create complex adaptations by selecting for advantageous variations.
On Knight's role in the story, Ottaviani wrote: As I was reading about Cope and Marsh, I ran across Knight as something of a bit player in their lives.
Humans are novel in their ability to decouple these social and personal bonds from direct sensory contact.
Ghiselin observes that Dawkins is "not content with rebutting creationists" but goes on to press home his arguments against alternative theories to neo-Darwinism.
There could not have been a worse time than the mid-1970s for the inauguration of human sociobiology.
He follows Huxley in his account of man's embryonic development, and then considers the evidence of vestigial organs, which he (and Huxley) called rudiments (p11).
Adaptations may have sacrificed muscle strength for higher intelligence and less aggressive human behaviours.
The book was welcomed by critics in journals such as Nature and newspapers including The New York Times.
References External links Google Books - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs Macmillan Publishers - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs
"Thus in the important matter of cranial capacity, men differ more widely from one another than they do from the apes; while the lowest apes differ as much, in proportion, from the highest, as the latter does from man" (p95).
The most common interpretations of the Book of Genesis read as Adam and Eve being the first two humans to ever exist, with all of humankind descending from that single, divinely created couple.
Ghiselin, writing in The New York Times, comments that Dawkins "succeeds admirably in showing how natural selection allows biologists to dispense with such notions as purpose and design".
Moore rejects the supposed infallibility of nature arguing that morality must be created consciously.
Gould argues that during this period just after the Cambrian explosion there was a greater disparity of anatomical body plans (phyla) than exist today.
It was originally published in 2001 as five comic books, and republished as into a single graphic novel in 2003.
Relation to other works The Scopes Trial was the subject of a comprehensive study previously written by L.
He strips any local conditions peculiar to Earth from these milestones which he calls thresholds, in the hope that these thresholds will be applicable to an alien evolution in an alien planetary system.
Though clearly inspired by evolution, the fanciful story is not an attempt to accurately represent the scientific process, as an author's note confirms.
Eventually, they discover many Macrolife survivors from many previous cycles of the universe, who help them to conquer time itself.
The book rejects reductionist biology and takes influence from Michael Polanyi and vitalist philosophy.
Chapter 10: The New Pangea Kolbert points out that there is an evolutionary arms race, in which each species must be equipped to defend against their potential predators and need to be more fit than their competition.
Notwithstanding the title, the book includes the complex evolutionary records of most continents within its pages – thoroughfully described by Agustí and breathtakingly illustrated by Antón.
The Blood of the Nation: A Study in the Decay of Races by the Survival of the Unfit was the title of a number of publications by the American eugenicist David Starr Jordan, the president of Stanford University.
The collection of essays, written between 1973–1977, became a best-seller and propelled Gould to national prominence.
The final chapter, "Who were the hunters and who the hunted", concludes that australopithecines found in the three caves were brought in by carnivores, contrary to Raymond Dart's Osteodontokeratic culture hypothesis, which proposed that the bones were brought in by the australopithecines themselves.
However, many species, whose larvae are armed with these bristles, have evolved to utilize them as a defense mechanism against any perceived threat.
Both Discodoris lilacina and Tomoberthella martensi will often drop their entire mantle skirt when handled, leading to Discodoris lilacina also being called Discodoris fragilis.
It concludes by urging readers to compare the book with Darwin's Descent of Man and with Wallace's Darwinism.
Selection against the weed may occur by killing a young or adult weed, separating its seeds from those of the crop (winnowing), or both.
Not all puffers are necessarily poisonous; the flesh of the northern puffer is not toxic (a level of poison can be found in its viscera) and it is considered a delicacy in North America.
Overview There is a strong evolutionary pressure for prey animals to avoid predators through camouflage, and for predators to be able to detect camouflaged prey.
Other animals are victims of parasites that are known to alter the behavior of their host to complete their lifecycle, which results in the host's death.
He resumed his camouflage research in World War II, in the course of which he worked with Everett L.
In rodents, the response is sometimes induced by additionally pinching or attaching a clamp to the skin at the nape of the neck.
Wilkinson, unlike Kerr, had little difficulty fitting in with the naval establishment, and was put in charge of a large-scale program of painting ships in disruptive patterns that became known as "Dazzle camouflage".
In one form, first described by Lincoln Brower in 1967, weakly-defended members of a species with warning coloration are parasitic on more strongly-defended members of their species, mimicking them to provide the negative reinforcement learning required for warning signals to function.
Occurrence The giant California sea cucumber (Parastichopus californicus) will often eviscerate due to rough handling, temperature shock, or other stressful treatments.
The effect on predators Phagomimicry Phagomimicry is the defensive behaviour in which expelled chemicals mimic food, deceiving some organisms to eat it instead.
Six years later, he exhibited another comparable painting that, viewed with the unaided eye, depicted the famous transatlantic flight of Charles Lindbergh, but when viewed through an optical instrument that Bittinger had invented, appeared instead to be the Mona Lisa.
When the caller is unfamiliar, the response call is an atypical eagle alarm call, with a frequency transition at onset.
For this purpose, a light spinning rod and various artificial lures, such as spoon lures and spinners, are used.
Environmental selection may support a smaller chick size if those chicks were born in an area that allowed them to grow to a larger size, even though under normal conditions they would not be able to reach this optimal size for migration.
The sickle-cell variant survives in the population because the heterozygote is resistant to malaria and the malarial parasite kills a huge number of people each year.
By using the traditional linkage analysis, these asthma correlated genes were able to be identified in small quantities using genome-wide association studies (GWAS).
Beddard did however briefly mention other methods, including the "alluring coloration" of the flower mantis and the possibility of a different mechanism in the orange tip butterfly.
One habitat is rocky sea-side cliffs, where the plants are bushy with broad leaves and expanded inflorescences; the other is among sand dunes where the plants grow prostrate with narrow leaves and compact inflorescences.
Woodlice or pillbugs (Armadillidae) curl themselves into "pills" not only for defense, but also to conserve moisture while resting or sleeping, because they must keep their pseudotrachaea ("gills") wet.
However, he lacked evidence and explanations for some critical components of the evolutionary process.
This phenomenon is particularly conspicuous when it takes the form of mast seeding, the production of large numbers of seeds by a population of plants.
Diver (1929) found banding morphs in Cepaea nemoralis could be seen in prefossil shells going back to the Mesolithic Holocene.
Non-human apes have similar blood groups to humans; this strongly suggests that this kind of polymorphism is ancient, at least as far back as the last common ancestor of the apes and man, and possibly even further.
Varki among those who had used the term up to 2003 suggested the following definition: "The body of information describing an organism's phenotypes, under the influences of genetic and environmental factors".
The brains of pregnant females carrying male fetuses may be shielded from the masculinizing effects of androgen through the action of sex hormone-binding globulin.
Plant mimicry can broadly be divided into reproductive mimicry that deceives pollinators into providing their service without rewarding them in return, and protective mimicry that deceives herbivores into not eating the plant.
In the case of the slender crayfish, deceptive signallers largely ignored their own strength when escalating or evading aggression.
Evolution has tailored these stereotyped behaviours to allow animals to communicate both conspecifically and interspecifically which allows for a broader connection in different niches in an ecosystem.
A gene is said to be polymorphic if more than one allele occupies that gene's locus within a population.
Tenebrionidae (darkling beetles) - larvae of Asbolus verrucosus have been observed to autohaemorrhage while they feign death.
In unionid freshwater bivalves, there are lake, small river, and large river forms of several species.
Jacobson NL, Weller SJ (2002) A cladistic study of the Arctiidae (Lepidoptera) by using characters of immatures and adults.
The concept of phenotype can be extended to variations below the level of the gene which affect an organism's fitness.
Cott described many kinds of camouflage, and in particular his drawings of coincident disruptive coloration in frogs convinced other biologists that these deceptive markings were products of natural selection.
Though volatiles of any kind have an attractive effect on natural enemies, this effect is stronger for damaged plants than for undamaged plants, perhaps because induced volatiles signal definitive and recent herbivore activity.
The pied raven had large areas of white feathering, most frequently on the head, the wings and the belly, and its beak was light brown.
Investigating genes involved in wing development and morphogenetic activity has led to the discovery that Hh has a primary role in the morphogenetic signaling center of the foci.
directly useful for absorbing heat, Poulton argues, but "By far the most widespread use of colour is to assist an animal in escaping from its enemies or in capturing its prey; the former is Protective, the latter Aggressive [resemblance, i.e.
Because none of these sight records mentioned the unique black-and-white pattern and a small number of diluted, all-whitish ravens have been observed in recent decades in the Faroe Islands, none of these are officially recognised as pied ravens.
Zoology Kerr interrupted his medical studies to join an Argentinian expedition to study the natural history of the Pilcomayo River.
This technique minimizes the outflow of latex or resin beyond the cut and allows herbivores to freely feed above the damaged section.
Animal coloration provided important early evidence for evolution by natural selection, at a time when little direct evidence was available.
Use in protests Computer vision dazzle makeup has been used by protestors in several different protest movements.
The ink is extracted from the ink sacs during preparation of the dead cephalopod, usually cuttlefish, and therefore contains no mucus.
The active strategy was described as a "phantom echo" that might therefore represent "auditory crypsis" with alternative theories about interfering with the bats' echolocation ("jamming").
Function During evisceration in some species, several hundred Cuvierian tubules (part of the respiratory tree) may be expelled.
essentially the same as one widely practised during the Great War for the concealment, not of caterpillars, but of caterpillar-tractors, [gun] battery positions, observation posts and so forth." == References ==
Sheppard found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
The effects of climate change can lead to a mismatch between the seasonal coat coloration of arctic animals such as snowshoe hares with the increasingly snow-free landscape.
Pufferfish can also have many varied structures of caltrop-like dermal spines, which account for the replacement of typical fish scales, and can range in coverage extent from the entire body, to leaving the frontal surface empty.
It uses a Polaroid photograph of him, with the material of acrylic polymer paint and silk screen printing to produce a camouflage pattern over the face surrounded by black.
Gaping is part of the shark agonistic display, and is also found in snakes such as the cottonmouth, and in birds ranging from seagulls to puffins to roosters.
In either case, the variation in larval type generally involves the production of larvae that differ in feeding mode and/or developmental time.
Autotomy in sea gastropod External links The dictionary definition of autotomy at Wiktionary Physiological and Biochemical Zoology Focused Collection: Caudal Autotomy and Regeneration in Lizards: Patterns, Costs, and Benefits
Laboratory tests showed that even when provided with a non-toxic alternative prey item, the dusky rat and the grassland melomys will still eat cane toads.
Some mimetic populations have evolved multiple forms (polymorphism), enabling them to mimic several different models and thereby to gain greater protection.
Fishing (angling) for sea trout is usually carried out at night using fly-fishing techniques, but only when the rivers are running clear.
Yen Shen-Horn designates 19 unique types, separated by wing patterns which allow the ability to mimic a large variety of lepidopterans.
More detailed information can be determined using exome sequencing, which provides the specific sequence of all DNA in the coding region of the genome, or whole genome sequencing, which sequences the entire genome including non-coding regions.
Hence, the male birds, although appearing yellow to humans, actually have a violet-tinted plumage that is seen by females.
Pirate perch (Aphredoderus sayanus) may exhibit chemical crypsis, making them undetectable to frogs and insects colonizing ponds.
With this subfamily's notorious obscurity, and the relative variation between species and subspecies, the relationships between members is still quite indeterminate.
There is some evidence for this in birds, where birds that catch fish at a medium depth, rather than at the surface or on the seabed, are more often coloured in this way, and the prey of these birds would see only the underside of the bird.
Apatosaurus and Diplodocus Female Apatosaurus and Diplodocus had interconnected caudal vertebrae that allowed them to keep their tails elevated to aid in copulation.
Since the harbour seal resides in an aquatic environment, the display behaviours expressed are slightly different from those seen in terrestrial mammal species.
Implemented most often in the face of an imminent attack by a predator, unkenreflex is characterized by the subject’s contortion or arching of its body to reveal previously hidden bright colors of the ventral side, tail, or inner limb; the subject remains immobile while in unkenreflex.
In the case of countershaded mammals with dark (often brownish) upper parts and lighter (often buff or whitish) under parts, such as in the house mouse, it is the Agouti gene which creates the difference in shading.
Some plants simply tolerate a low level of herbivory by natural enemies for the service they provide in ridding the plant of more serious herbivores.
Among pill millipedes, volvation is a protection against both external threats and against dehydration.
The term poecilogony was coined by Alfred Mathieu Giard to describe a polymorphism in larval development in marine invertebrates.
In other cases, the larval type is genetically determined - a good example is the polychaete Streblospio benedicti, where some mothers release small planktotrophic eggs and other mothers release large lecithotrophic eggs.
Genes involved in this process may differ between species, but common to all plants is that systemically induced defences occur as a result of changes in gene expression.
Male fireflies from several different genera are attracted to these "femmes fatales", as the predatory females can identify the male's species and emit the appropriate signals.
Lepidoptera larvae also tie leaves together and feed on the inside of the leaves to decrease the effectiveness of the phototoxin hypericin in St.
Another adaptation associated with intravertebral autotomy is that skin flaps fold over the wound at the site of autotomy to readily seal the wound, which can minimize infection at the autotomy site.
Reproduction River trout spawn between October and January in the Northern Hemisphere, and introduced populations in the Southern Hemisphere spawn between May and June.
This could be confusing, since the orange, used in the racecourse obstacles, could be blending with grass.
Ultrasound causes flying lacewings to fold their wings and drop, an effective maneuver for evading capture by bats.
Apart from Thayer's "bizarre" flamingos, Forbes calls Thayer's opposition to Batesian mimicry "extreme".
Once they have been mapped out, cloned, and identified, it can be determined whether a mutation represents a new gene or not.
The effect of the marking and movement is to produce the deceptive appearance of a head at the wrong end of the body.
Examples across the electromagnetic spectrum Problems and Limitations As this type of camouflage hinders electromagnetic radiation, radio-communications and GPS are also hindered.
The ground attack A-10 Thunderbolt II l was sometimes painted with a camouflage scheme that included both disruptive coloration and automimicry in the form of a false canopy on the underside.
Wilkinson successfully promoted the false idea that Kerr's camouflage sought invisibility rather than image disruption.
Some species within the Arctiinae have the word "tussock"' in their common names because they have been misidentified as members of the Lymantriinae subfamily based on the characteristics of the larvae.
For example, the tropical flounder Bothus ocellatus can match its pattern to "a wide range of background textures" in 2–8 seconds.
Massachusetts Cicadas describes behavior, sightings, photos, "how to find" guide, videos and distribution maps of New England and U.S.
Description Depending on the supply of food, river trout measure 20 to 80 cm (0.66 to 2.62 ft) in length; exceptionally, they may be up to 1 m (3 ft 3 in) long and weigh up to over 13 kg (29 lb), although they usually attain an average weight of up to 2 kg (4.4 lb).
Mendelian inheritance Traits that are determined exclusively by genotype are typically inherited in a Mendelian pattern.
These sequestered iridoid glycosides then confer chemical protection against bird predators to the butterfly larvae.
For instance, when some trees experience herbivory, they release compounds that make their vegetation less palatable.
Plot summary Technical Fairy, First Class gives the troops "A Lecture On Camouflage" with the aid of Private Snafu.
In the taxonomic nomenclature of zoology, the word "morpha" plus a Latin name for the morph can be added to a binomial or trinomial name.
This is because predators attack imperfect mimics more readily where there is little chance that they are the model species.
As a result, animals have certain environmental and social cues that they can use to decide when is the most beneficial time to show such behaviours; they use these triggers to minimize cost (predator avoidance) and maximize gain (mate attraction).
Kerr again influenced British camouflage in the Second World War, this time through his pupil Hugh B.
Genotypes often have much flexibility in the modification and expression of phenotypes; in many organisms these phenotypes are very different under varying environmental conditions.
Dakin photographed model birds, much as Thayer and Cott had done, and argued that the shoulders and arms of battledress should be countershaded.
For example, tree growth has been observed to decline the year before the emergence of a brood because of the increased feeding on roots by the growing nymphs.
These are expelled slightly away from the cephalopod in question, which will often release several pseudomorphs and change colour (blanch) in conjunction with these releases.
According to an article in a popular magazine in 1921, he “painted an airplane wing with the German cross upon it, which when viewed by our [U.S.] army through binoculars equipped with a red filter, discloses itself to be not the German cross, but the red, white and blue of the Allies.
A biological pigment, also known simply as a pigment or biochrome, is a substance produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption.
Until then, mimicry in plants was studied infrequently, both because it is uncommon and because botanists considered mainly physical factors in plant ecology.
Farming of brown trout has included the production of infertile triploid fish by increasing the water temperature just after fertilisation of eggs, or more reliably, by a process known as pressure shocking.
On the contrary, when a given allele is low in frequency (p → {\displaystyle \to } 0) it will increase in frequency in the future, avoiding its extinction and maintaining polymorphism at the locus.
The philosopher Kristina Šekrst uses the findings to show that if this is held to involve self-deception, then belief is implied to be present, meaning at least Mitchell's third level of deception.
As they describe, the nomenclature for this subfamily is currently unstable and is subject to further revision.
Orthoptera Bushhoppers, such as Dictyophorus spumans, Phymateus viridipes and Phymateus leprosus – their haemolymph contains cardiac glycosides, sequestered from milkweed on which they feed.
Among animals, self-decoration is found in decorator crabs, some insects such as caddis flies and the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
Each species of cephalopod produces slightly differently coloured inks; generally, octopuses produce black ink, squid ink is blue-black, and cuttlefish ink is a shade of brown.
By emitting a small, measured amount of blue light, the aircraft's average brightness better matches that of the sky, and the aircraft is able to fly closer to its target before being detected.
Angling with natural lures (worms, maggots, grasshoppers) is discouraged in most rivers because it is difficult to throw back trout that are below the minimum landing size uninjured when they have ingested this food so quickly and deeply.
The endophallus and cornua portions of the genitalia of male honey bees (drones) also autotomize during copulation, and form a mating plug, which must be removed by the genitalia of subsequent drones if they are also to mate with the same queen.
He was able to show that the caterpillars were sensitive to the background colours and that it was perceived even when they were blinded, and was among the earliest to suggest extraocular photoreception.
He concluded that differential bird predation was a major factor responsible for the decline in carbonaria frequency compared to typica in Cambridge during the study period, and described his results as a complete vindication of the peppered moth story.
In autosomal conditions, the sex of the offspring does not play a role in their risk of being affected.
Significance The fossil represents the first known evidence that thorny bamboo existed in Asia during the Ice Age.
An example is feigned injury to get or divert attention; for example, a parent mockingbird feigning an injury to attract a predator away from its defenceless offspring Fourth-level deception: includes recognition of other animals' beliefs, i.e., second-order thinking.
To be effective defensive agents, the sequestered chemicals cannot be metabolized into inactive products.
The decorator crabs attach plants, animals, small stones, or shell fragments to their carapaces to provide camouflage that matches the local environment.
At night, they feel more confident to come out into the main river flow and can often be seen "running" (migrating upstream) in the shallow runs during the months of May to November.
When a parasitoid wasp approaches eggs that are covered by the fungus, the fungus prevents the wasp from harming the eggs about 90% of the time.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
trutta bones from an archaeological site in Italy, and ancient DNA extracted from some of these bones, indicate that both abundance and genetic diversity increased markedly during the colder Younger Dryas period, and fell during the warmer Bølling-Allerød event.
Herbivore sequestration of plant defensive compounds The field of chemical ecology has elucidated additional types of plant multitrophic interactions that entail the transfer of defensive compounds across multiple trophic levels.
When predators are flooded with potential prey, they can consume only a certain amount, so by occurring at high densities prey benefit from a safety in numbers effect.
Thayer's original argument, restated by Cott, was that nature did the exact opposite with countershading that an artist did with paint when creating the illusion of solid three-dimensionality, namely counteracting the effect of shade to flatten out form.
The biologist Steven Vogel commented that: The zoologist Hugh Cott had the final word in Adaptive Coloration in Animals (1940), a definitive synthesis of everything known about camouflage and mimicry in nature.
Incorporating these varieties or their genes into commercial maize production could increase the efficacy of nematode treatments.
Thayer notes that a few species with strong defences such as hedgehogs, porcupines, echidnas, pangolins and "some armadillos" are exceptions, along with some beasts which "enjoy a like security by virtue of their gigantic bigness", including the elephants, rhinoceroses, and hippopotamuses.
Many alternative theories were accordingly considered by biologists, threatening to undermine Darwinian evolution.
This pattern is found in many species of mammals, reptiles, birds, fish, and insects, both in predators and in prey.
Taking sex determination as the example, in humans the determination is genetic, by the XY sex-determination system.
A good example is the Indian white admiral (Limenitis procris) which has five forms, each geographically separated from the other by large mountain ranges.
In such cases, plants have been demonstrated to induce defences upon contact from the ovipositing of insects.
Evidence for this includes the occasional responsive movement, scanning of the environment and animals in tonic immobility often taking advantage of escape opportunities.
Vein cutting is when a herbivore creates small openings along the length of the leaf vein, while trenching refers to the creation of a cut across the width the leaf allowing the individual to safely consume the separated portion.
Both the Campbell monkey and the cotton-top tamarin have demonstrated abilities similar to vervet monkeys' ability to distinguish likely direction of predation and appropriate responses.
This is supported by the last sightings which occurred in the absence of a regular breeding population of piebald birds, and the observations of H.
The law has been criticised by members of the Trinidad and Tobago Police Service as the law was intended to stop impersonation of the Defence Force soldiers but led to occasions where toys with camouflage accessories were being confiscated as illegal.
However, once model and mimic have become closely similar, some degree of mutual protection becomes likely.
This results in a number of occasions at military-themed festivals where the police opted not to enforce the law.
Ultrasound avoidance in other insects In praying mantises, ultrasound avoidance behaviors are non-directional turns or power dives that are very effective in preventing capture by bats.
Coccinellidae (ladybird, ladybug or lady beetles) – An alkaloid toxin in the haemolymph is exuded through the joints of the exoskeleton, triggered by mechanical stimulation (such as predator attack).
These dauer larvae are a stress-resistant, non-feeding, long-lived stage, enabling the animals to survive harsh conditions.
Families prominent in this respect include the following: Adults of some species also have urticating scales, and some species shed some of their urticating hairs as defense for their pupae and eggs.
Caro gained his bachelor's degree in zoology at Cambridge University in 1973, and his doctorate in psychology at the University of St Andrews in 1979.
Context Charles Darwin published On the Origin of Species in 1859, arguing that evolution in nature must be driven by natural selection, just as breeds of domestic animals and cultivars of crop plants were driven by artificial selection.
Bioluminescence is common among marine animals, so counter-illumination may be widespread, though light has other functions, including attracting prey and signaling.
The slow-developing larvae do not grow much during the first year, but grow rapidly during the early part of the second summer and remain a second winter within the ant colonies.
The ambiguous uses of camouflage—drawing attention when a fashionable look and doing the opposite in military use—fascinated Warhol.
For example, the predatory cichlid Nimbochromis livingstonii lies on its side on the bottom sediments until approached by scavengers attracted to what appears to be a dead fish, whereupon H.
Armitage Department of Systematics and Ecology, University of Kansas Alarm calls of Belding's ground squirrels to aerial predators: nepotism or self-preservation?
It has the distinctive behavior of cultivating fungus on females' hind legs, which is used to protect their eggs from parasitic wasps.
Mimicry of distasteful members of the same species Automimicry was first reported by the ecologist Lincoln Brower and colleagues, who found that monarch butterflies reared on cabbage were palatable to blue jays.
His students were mostly females, who would later go on to create decorative household works, jars with lids, urns and such.
In recent times, Trinidad and Tobago officials have taken a more relaxed approach towards the matter though importation of any camouflage patterned items remains illegal.
In his 1909 book Concealing-Coloration in the Animal Kingdom, he correctly described and illustrated countershading with photographs and paintings, but wrongly claimed that almost all animals are countershaded.
Díðrikur á Skarvanesi, the Faroe painter, painted the Fuglar series, a number of portrayal of birds.
In nature the visible and invisible dance back and forth with each other, depending on how much we have learned to see.
Based on perceived threat, crickets took action to save themselves or attempted to preserve their offspring.
Punnett's 1915 Mimicry in Butterflies rejected selection as the main cause of mimicry, while Poulton supported it.
The fecal shield is a structure formed by the larvae of many species of beetles in the leaf beetle family, Chrysomelidae.
One such plant defensive strategy is the use of latex and resin canals that contain sticky toxins and digestibility reducers.
Unlike the supergene, epistatic genes do not need to be closely linked or even on the same chromosome.
For example, a polymorphic variant of the gene encoding the enzyme CYP4A11, in which thymidine replaces cytosine at the gene's nucleotide 8590 position encodes a CYP4A11 protein that substitutes phenylalanine with serine at the protein's amino acid position 434.
The evolutionary zoologist James Mallet notes that this discovery "rather illogically" followed rather than preceded the accounts of Batesian and Müllerian mimicry, which both rely on the existence and effectiveness of warning coloration.
Other species such as elephants will also mourn the death of loved ones and experience grief, often rubbing their trunks against remains and burying them with dirt.
Dubatolov VV (2008) Construction of the phylogenetic model for the genera of the tribe Arctiini (Lepidoptera, Arctiidae) with the SYNAP method.
Cott concluded that the effect was concealment "so long as the false configuration is recognized in preference to the real one".
American troops in Europe in the winter of 1944 to 1945 improvised snow capes and helmet covers from white cloth such as bed linen.
Subsequent research has provided evidence for only two functions of moth sounds, neither of which involve "auditory crypsis".
In scientific studies of biological mimicry the imitating species is called the mimic, while the imitated species (protected by its own toxicity, foul taste or other defenses) is known as the model.
Countershading, the use of different colors on upper and lower surfaces in graduating tones from a light belly to a darker back, is common in the sea and on land.
This is then transferred to the stigma of the next flower the male tries to inseminate, resulting in pollination.
There are relatively few examples of animal behaviour which might be attributed to the manipulative type of deception that occurs in humans, i.e.
In small streams, brown trout are important predators of macroinvertebrates, and declining brown trout populations in these specific areas affect the entire aquatic food web.
Defeating counter-illumination camouflage An animal camouflaged by counter-illumination is not completely invisible.
These secretions, along with the aposematic coloring common among the amphibians which display unkenreflex, serve as a warning to nearby predators that the amphibian may be poisonous.
41, ISBN 0-12-597180-X {{citation}}: |author= has generic name (help)CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Mimicry A large majority of Chalcosiine moths engage in mimicry complexes with a large variety of butterflies and moths.
Many diurnal species see the benefit of a "longer day", allowing for a longer hunting period which is detrimental to their nocturnal prey trying to avoid them.
Temperature-dependent sex determination has been proposed as an explanation for the extinction of the dinosaurs.
Using Painter's technique they studied the polytene chromosomes and discovered that the wild populations were polymorphic for chromosomal inversions.
And as of 2018, multiple countries are phasing out legacy camouflage systems with multi-spectral systems.
He has also noted that his frequent photographing spots are the beaches like Gyllyngvase, around Falmouth, Cornwall, where he is based, with the further West locations of Helford estuary and Kynance Cove being among his preferred ones.
Herbivores are believed to have evolved to evade detection on the part of the nematodes, whereas the plants have evolved to release highly attractive chemical signals.
In tournament species, the reproductive success of the small group of competition winners is predominantly higher than that of the large group of losers.
Such sums, a healthy amount of money for the impoverished Faroe farmers, made shooting a pied raven a profitable enterprise.
Self-decoration camouflage is a method of camouflage in which animals or soldiers select materials, sometimes living, from the environment and attach these to themselves for concealment.
Traits attractive to natural enemies can be physical, as in the cases of domatia and nectaries; or chemical, as in the case of induced plant volatile chemicals that help natural enemies pinpoint a food source.
Salicylic acid is a phytohormone that is one of the essential hormones for regulating plants' immune systems.
The camera shifts back to the Fairy, who points that to fool the enemy, one must blend in with the natural surroundings.
As an example, several species of bark beetle introduce blue stain fungi of the genera Ceratocystis and Ophiostoma into trees before feeding.
This may be a form of deimatic behaviour, colloquially known as a startle display or threat display, as it enlarges the appearance of the animal, and for those with teeth it shows the threat that these represent.
Post-war Later in the 20th century, as disruptively patterned uniforms became widespread, winter variants of patterns such as Flecktarn were developed, the background colour (such as green) being replaced with white to form a Schneetarn (snow camouflage pattern).
Attack protection Inking has been shown to protect species of squids against predatory fish attacks, as well during the capture phase as during the consummatory phase, due to visual and chemical effects of the ink released.
Smaller avian species tend to be harmed more significantly by the destruction of habitat, and bigger species are often endangered more so by human hunting and invasive species.
Kozur (1996) pointed out that the presence of Hindeodus in a certain area seems to not be controlled by the depth of the water or distance to the shore, but more dependent on the presence of competitor species (such as Gondelellids) that are better adapted to survive in that environment.
Preservation Usually the only part of Sunella that is preserved is the carapace, but rarely (only twenty-two times in Sunella cf.
It is hypothesized that the extinction was caused by dense aerosols from strong volcanic activity in areas such as the Siberian Trap.
This in turn rules out an atmosphere containing more than traces of oxygen, which would have produced an ozone layer that would have shielded the lower atmosphere from UV radiation.
Depositional environment The sediments were eroded from the Canadian Cordillera, and were transported eastward by river systems and deposited in fluvial channel and floodplain environments.
In popular culture Agomphus is featured as an edible creature in the game Tasty Planet: Back for Seconds.
Synthesised evidence has produced slushball Earth models where the stratigraphic record does not permit postulating complete global glaciations.
Anoxic conditions correlate better with biotic crises than phases of cooling, suggesting anoxia may have played the dominant role in extinction.
This suggests that evolutionary constraints on the number of S and M elements are stronger than those for the P elements, and thus are less likely to change.
It follows Roth and a group of scientists, activists, and researchers who travel around the world exposing the extinction of sharks.
To improve the accuracy of the age of the zircon, several variously-aged pieces of zircon were organized into a timeline based on when they crystallized.
Four to six species are currently recognized, although from the 1930s to 1970s the number of species was thought to be much higher.
Muller, independently published similar hypotheses to explain Raup and Sepkoski's extinction periodicity in the same issue of the journal Nature.
This confirms the assumption of the linkage between the age of volcanic rocks within the Siberian Traps, along with rock samples from other southern regions to the Permian–Triassic mass extinction event.
Kelly and Frank Dahille analyzed global geological evidence suggesting that one or more giant asteroids impacted the Earth, causing an angular shift in its axis, global floods, firestorms, atmospheric occlusion, and the extinction of the dinosaurs.
OAE1a, as with other OAEs, exhibited widespread deposition of black shales rich in organic matter incapable of being decomposed on the seabed, as the anoxic conditions prohibited habitation of most microbial decomposers.
It is overlain by the Punchbowl Formation (east) and Castaic Formation (west), both of the Miocene and Pliocene epochs.
It is placed as one of the "Big Five" most severe mass extinction events in Earth's history, with likely around 40% of marine species going extinct, though the degree of severity is contested.
The Saint Christophe Formation can be correlated with the Sassauna Formation found in Graubünden and calcareous flysch found in the Engadine.
A 2016 drilling project into the peak ring of the crater strongly supported the hypothesis, and confirmed various matters that had been unclear until that point.
Genera include some of the longest snakes known such as Vasuki, measuring at least 11–15 metres (36–49 ft) long, and the Australian Wonambi and Yurlunggur.
Oxygen in its O2 form, meanwhile, was present in the atmosphere at just 0.001% of recent atmospheric levels.
The cat gap is a period in the fossil record of approximately 25 million to 18.5 million years ago in which there are few fossils of cats or cat-like species found in North America.
(Werner and Rage, 1994, Rage and Werner 1999; Cretaceous, Cenomanian; Sudan) ?Madtsoiid (Rage and Prasad, 1992; Cretaceous, Maastrichtian; India) ?Madtsoiid (Rage, 1991; Paleogene, early Paleocene Santa Lucía Formation; Bolivia) ?Madtsoiidae indet.
The second peak’s start is close to the base of the ludensis-gerhardi graptolite biozone, during the recovery interval.
More precise radiometric dating by Hodych & Dunning (1992) has shown that the Manicouagan impact occurred about 214 million years ago, about 13 million years before the Triassic–Jurassic boundary.
The Parasaurolophus model was used for Charonosaurus (even though the legs of Charonosaurus were shorter than those of Parasaurolophus).
Some writers have attempted to explain this event in terms of climate or sea level change – perhaps arising due to a build-up of glaciers; however, such factors alone do not appear to be sufficient to explain the events.
However, more recent research estimates give mean annual temperatures values of 12 or 15°C, which are consistent with previous paleobotanical data.
The lithofacies characteristics of the unit suggest an outer continental shelf environment, below the normal wave base.
After the event, conodont abundance surged during the interval of biotic recovery from the Šilalė mass rarity.
They are never found in shallow water facies, or in deep water that was presumably home to cold water fauna.
These deposits are later assigned a Maastrichtian to lowermost Tertiary age, though recent radiometric revisions in age of older strata could suggest a slightly older age.
Further research on the recently identified primitive therapsid of the Xidagou Formation (Dashankou locality) in China of Roadian age may provide more information on this topic.
Madagascar Within centuries of the arrival of humans around the 1st millennium AD, nearly all of Madagascar's distinct, endemic, and geographically isolated megafauna became extinct.
Banded iron formation Banded iron formations are composed of thin alternating layers of chert (a fine-grained form of silica) and iron oxides (magnetite and hematite).
Bernard unit Internal Valais Versoyen unit Large outcrops of the Couches de Saint Christophe crop out north of Bourg-Saint-Maurice.
It comprises eight extinction "datum points"—the first four being regularly spaced, every 30,797 years, and linked to the Milankovic obliquity cycle.
For example, this is already resulting in coral bleaching on various coral reefs worldwide, which provide valuable habitat and maintain a high biodiversity.
The opposite event, marine transgression, occurs when flooding from the sea covers previously-exposed land.
Although the vegetation did become more spatially specialized, the amount of prairie and grass available increased, which would have been good for horses and for mammoths, and yet they became extinct.
The Mahantango Formation in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Maryland also record the Taghanic event.
The Medea hypothesis is a term coined by paleontologist Peter Ward for a hypothesis that contests the Gaian hypothesis and proposes that multicellular life, understood as a superorganism, may be self-destructive or suicidal.
Ocean acidification began shortly after the negative δ13C excursion and lasted for approximately 0.85 Myr.
In the Powder River Basin, it contains important economic deposits of coal, uranium, and coalbed methane.
In 2007, Underhill continued to present evidence that he argues does not support the impact hypothesis.
At Tanis, unlike any other known Lagerstätte site, it appears specific circumstances allowed for the preservation of moment-by-moment details caused by the impact event.
The OAE is associated with large igneous province volcanism and an extinction event of marine organisms driven by global warming, ocean acidification, and anoxia.
In the case of the kākāpō, a critically endangered New Zealand parrot, the sole means of defense against predators is crypsis, involving minimal movement.
Sedimentological impact Profound sedimentary changes occurred at the beginning of the Lau event; these are probably associated with the onset of sea level rise, which continued through the event, reaching a high point at the time of deposition of the Burgsvik beds, after the event.
Some major regressions of the past, however, seem unrelated to glaciation episodes, with the regression that accompanied the mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous being one example.
Tunguska event A verneshot has been proposed as an alternate explanation for the Tunguska event, widely regarded as the result of an atmospheric explosion of a small comet or asteroid.
On December 11, 2008, CNN premiered a sequel to Planet in Peril, called Planet in Peril: Battle Lines.
Due to the spectacular nature of this proposed mechanism, the scientific community has largely reacted with skepticism to this hypothesis.
This weathering may have buffered the warming effects of large igneous province volcanism and helped to cool the Earth back to its pre-OAE1a state.
The small hypercarnivorous canids were soon joined by and ultimately replaced by numerous species from other families which also had evolved more specialized meat-eating teeth and skulls.
The formation straddles the Cretaceous-Paleogene (K-Pg) boundary, which divides it into an upper, Early Paleocene member and a lower, Late Cretaceous member.
Calcareous nannoplankton that lived in the deep photic zone suffered, with the decrease in abundance of the taxon Mitrolithus jansae used as an indicator of shoaling of the oxygen minimum zone in the Tethys and the Hispanic Corridor.
Shiva and mass extinction The proposed Shiva crater and other possible impact craters along with the Chicxulub crater have led to the hypothesis that multiple impacts caused the massive extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous period.
Little mixing of different plant assemblages occurred throughout this transition; floral assemblages were highly discrete and conservative and gave way to new ones without any transitional floras intermediate in composition with regards to the preceding one and succeeding one.
A 2021 study also found that only around 3% of the planet's terrestrial surface remains ecologically and faunally intact—areas that still have healthy populations of native species and minimal human footprint.
Evidence and projects The location of the impact was unknown when the Alvarez team developed their hypothesis, but later scientists discovered the Chicxulub Crater in the Yucatán Peninsula, now considered the likely impact site.
The nimravids were large cat-like animals that occupied this ecomorphic niche in the ecosystem until 26 Mya.
It is subdivided into an upper, coal-bearing member that consists of the Ardley coal zone, and a lower member that lacks significant coal.
The causes may involve the interplay of climate change, competition between species, unstable population dynamics, and hunting as well as competition by humans.
While his assertion was not initially well-received, later intensive field studies of fossil beds lent weight to his claim.
Numerous fossils are known from the unit, mostly ammonites and bivalves, but also marine vertebrates such as mosasaurs, plesiosaurs and marine turtles.
This is further evidence of a major blow to ecosystems of the time – such deposits can only form in conditions similar to those of the early Cambrian period, when life as we know it was only just becoming established.
Causes Global warming OAE1a ensued during a hot climatic interval, with the global average temperature being around 21.5 °C.
Nadir crater is a buried impact crater on the Guinea Plateau in the Atlantic Ocean, 400 kilometres (248 miles) off the coast of Guinea.
If the impact crater hypothesis is correct, based on the size of the ring structure, it has been suggested by Frese's team that the impactor could have been four or five times wider than the Chicxulub impactor, which is believed to have caused the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.
Using data on chondrichthyan diversity, Koot showed that there was little substantial decline in diversity until the middle of the Guadalupian.
True tetrapods (defined as four-limbed vertebrates with digits) survived and experienced an evolutionary radiation following the Kellwasser extinction, though their fossils are rare until the mid-to-late Famennian.
Nannoconids that were highly calcified suffered significant decline during OAE1a, likely as a consequence of ocean acidification, although this causal relationship is disputed by other authors.
It was formed at or near the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary about 66 mya around the same time as the Chicxulub crater.
This hypothesis is supported by the presence of lingual cartilage found in conodonts that resembles those found in extant cyclostomes (Hagfish and Lamprey) which are also predators.
With the recent use of cladistics to unravel phylogeny, various analyses have posited Madtsoiidae as a likely clade within Serpentes, or possible paraphyletic stem group outside Serpentes and within a more inclusive Ophidia.
The extinction event was accompanied by widespread oceanic anoxia; that is, a lack of oxygen, prohibiting decay and allowing the preservation of organic matter.
Political activist Tucker Carlson wrote that the SAA was an "elitist, closed-minded cabal" linked to the "collapse of the American idea." The YouTube community has further increased visibility of YDIH into popular discussion with many dozens of videos discussing the topic.
The metaphor refers to the mythological Medea (representing the Earth), who kills her own children (multicellular life).
The entire genome of the species has been sequenced from surviving tissue, with the hope of being able to revive the species using genome engineering and in vitro fertilization.
Indeterminate theropod and pterosaur remains have been recovered from the formation, as well as dinosaur eggs.
Although the site has shifted since its formation because of sea floor spreading, the formation is approximately 600 kilometres (370 miles) long by 400 km (250 mi) wide.
Taxonomy Thoracosaurus had traditionally been thought to be related to the modern false gharial, largely because the nasal bones contact the premaxillae.
The Fort Union Formation is a geologic unit containing sandstones, shales, and coal beds in Wyoming, Montana, and parts of adjacent states.
Trilobites that inhabited the outer edges of shelf environments and slope environments, on the other hand, were minimally impacted by the event.
A second negative δ7Li excursion occurred synchronously with a strontium isotope minimum, demarcating another peak in silicate weathering.
Roughly ~460 gigatons (Gt) of organic carbon and ~1,200 Gt of inorganic carbon were likely sequestered by this lake over the course of the TOAE.
North America One of the earliest studies to link insect extinctions to recent climate change was published in 2002, when observations of two populations of Bay checkerspot butterfly found that they were threatened by changes in precipitation.
Several early Paleocene lava flows are present in the upper part of the Denver Formation at North and South Table Mountain near Golden, Colorado.
This formation represents the first known discoveries to science of Triceratops (a partial cranium with horns) and Tyrannosaurus (a tooth), as well as the type locality for another well-known dinosaur, Ornithomimus.
The Black Peaks Formation is a geological formation in Texas whose strata date back to the Late Cretaceous.
Environmental tolerance After the eruption of El Chichón, the fern Pityrogramma calomelanos was observed to regenerate from rhizomes buried by ash, even though the plants' leaves were destroyed.
It is classified as a minor extinction event, rather than a major event like the famous Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event that brought about the end of the Mesozoic Era.
Species that rely on cold weather conditions such as gyrfalcons, and snowy owls that prey on lemmings that use the cold winter to their advantage may be negatively affected.
The documentary attributes blame to the private sector of the economy; the desire to increase profits leads to a disregard for the natural environment.
Description Lithologies The Guaduas Formation consists mainly of shales with intercalated sandstone beds.
Frequent false rings observed in the dendrochronology of the stumps were deduced to have been caused by sudden drops in temperature during the growing season to between 6–10 °C (43–50 °F) suggestive of more sub-arctic summer conditions.
The episodes feature Hancock visiting archaeological sites and natural features which he claims show evidence of this.
Enhanced hydrological cycling caused clastic sedimentation to accelerate during the TOAE; the increase in clastic sedimentation was synchronous with excursions in 187Os/188Os, 87Sr/86Sr, and δ44/40Ca.
The δ13C curve slightly lags conodont extinctions, hence the two events may not represent the same thing.
Timing In the Kosov quarry in Bohemia, the extinction is observed during the latest lundgreni biozone and over the course of the flemingii biozone interval.
"Dinosaur-bearing hyperconcentrated flows of Cretaceous Arctic Alaska—Recurring catastrophic event beds on a distal paleopolar coastal plain".
A mother Tyrannosaurus rex tends to her eggs, and two Triceratops spar over territory in the woods just beyond the water's edge.
The Dresbachian extinction event, about 502 million years ago, was followed by the Cambrian–Ordovician extinction event about 486.85 million years ago.
In 2016, a scientific drilling project drilled deep into the peak ring of the Chicxulub impact crater, to obtain rock core samples from the impact itself.
It has been suggested that this was caused by climate change associated with the earliest polar glaciations and a major fall in sea levels, or by competition with taxa dispersing from Asia.
Hindeodus is differentiated from other conodonts by having P elements with large fixed cusps located at the anterior end of the blade and usually grow primarily by adding new denticles only to the posterior end of the element.
The first season of the series, produced by ITN Productions, was released on Netflix in November 2022.
He therefore supposes that they were constructed by theorized civilisations destroyed by the Younger Dryas impact event, or else the survivors of the event and their immediate descendants.
Attenborough revisits the East African Virunga Mountains, where he interacted with mountain gorillas for his documentary series Life on Earth (1979).
20 Ma was marked by an increase in origination intensity, and 18 Ma showed a decrease in extinction intensity and a large increase in origination intensity.
The granitoid has an unusually low density and P-wave velocity compared to typical granitic basement rocks.
"We assign Hainina to the Kogaionidae (superfamily incertae sedis); it differs from Kogaionon in having ornamented enamel, while the enamel is smooth in Kogaionon".
This event has been argued by some authors to have affected many taxa, including embryophytes, marine metazoans, and tetrapods.
They report from a wide variety of locations including Alaska, Brazil, Madagascar, Southeast Asia, and Yellowstone National Park, examining the effects of population growth, rising temperatures, poaching and illegal wildlife trade, among others, on the global environment.
The amplitudes of the ~405 Ka long eccentricity cycle were at their lowest point of the entire Přídolí during the Šilalė Event.
Vertebrate paleofauna Indeterminate ankylosaurids, albertosaurines, pachycephalosaurids, ornithomimids, lambeosaurs, and saurolophines are known from Alberta.
The mammal genera Deccanolestes, Sahnitherium, Bharattherium, Indoclemensia, Indotriconodon and Kharmerungulatum have been recovered from several localities.
A thin layer of mobile material beneath a solid crust is easy to understand in the context of icy moons, but is not a common occurrence on the rocky bodies of the Solar System.
Dinosaur remains are among the fossils that have been recovered from the Cretaceous portion of the formation.
There may in fact have been two closely spaced events here, as shown by the presence of two distinct anoxic shale layers.
The widely accepted cause of the freshwater influx is meltwater from retreating ice sheets as laid out in a 1989 paper in Nature led by geochemist Wallace Smith Broecker and collaborators.
The predominantly shale with coalbed formation dates to the Late Cretaceous and Paleogene periods; Maastrichtian-Paleocene epochs, and has a maximum thickness of 1,090 metres (3,580 ft).
Plot In the Pacific Northwest, at the end of the Maastrichtian stage, a Quetzalcoatlus spots an unguarded T.
The crater is around 9.2 km (5.7 mi) in diameter, and formed around 66 million years ago, close to the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary when a small asteroid struck the ocean floor.
The sandstones were deposited mainly in fluvial channel environments, with siltstones, carbonaceous shales and coals accumulating in overbank settings.
450 Ma – Late Ordovician microfossils of scales indicate the earliest evidence for the existence of jawed fish or Gnathostomata.
The traps evolved along the then eastern continental margin of India, following rifting of Gondwanaland.
In March 2010, an international panel of scientists endorsed the asteroid hypothesis, specifically the Chicxulub impact, as being the cause of the extinction.
Mammaliaforms and their closest relatives, the buck-toothed tritylodonts, together make up the group Mammaliamorpha.
bouchardi is known to have been a pioneer species that colonised areas denuded of brachiopods in the northwestern Tethyan region.
This could be the oldest evidence of a hibernation-like state in a vertebrate animal and indicates that torpor arose in vertebrates before mammals and dinosaurs evolved.
These rocks have been studied in detail by numerous geologists and are considered to represent the type example of a Paleoproterozoic glaciation.
The species Taphrosphys congolensis is known from Angola while Taphrosphys ippolitoi was found in the Ouled Abdoun Basin in Morocco.
1–752, ISBN 978-1862392656 Weishampel, David B.; Dodson, Peter; Osmólska, Halszka (2004), The Dinosauria, 2nd edition, Berkeley: University of California Press, pp.
It was preceded by the less-documented (but probably more extensive) End-Botomian mass extinction around 517 million years ago, and the Dresbachian extinction event about 502 million years ago.
However, analysis of the boundary layer sediments failed to find 244Pu, a supernova byproduct which is the longest-lived plutonium isotope, with a half-life of 81 million years.
Genesis These volcanic rocks were formed from the eruptions over the Kerguelen hotspot in the early Cretaceous.
Archaeologists and other experts also criticised the program for delegitimising the achievements of Indigenous peoples.
For comparison, the Martian moon Phobos has a diameter of 22 km (14 mi), and Mount Everest is just under 9 km (5.6 mi).
Other marine invertebrates Further taxa to be starkly affected include the brachiopods, ammonites, conodonts, acritarch and graptolites.
Impact physicist Mark Boslough published a commentary in the magazine Skeptic with the conclusion that many attributes of the series are pseudoscience.
The persistence of anoxia through the Early Triassic may explain the slow recovery of marine life and low levels of biodiversity after the extinction, particularly that of benthic organisms.
Last Day of the Dinosaurs is a 2010 Discovery Channel television documentary about the K-T extinction, which resulted in the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs.
The group publishes research about real geological phenomenons with alternative explanations that diverge from scientific consensus.
The Dresbachian is a Maentwrogian regional stage of North America, lasting from 501 to 497 million years ago.
(1998) noted an interesting phenomenon, that being how the Manicouagan, Rochechouart, and Saint Martin craters all seem to be at the same latitude, and that the Obolon' and Red Wing craters form parallel arcs with the Rochechouart and Saint Martin craters, respectively.
Plants are relatively immune to mass extinction, with the impact of all the major mass extinctions "insignificant" at a family level.
On Faial Island, the decline of Prunus lusitanica has been hypothesized by some scholars to have been related to the tree species being endozoochoric, with the extirpation or extinction of various bird species drastically limiting its seed dispersal.
It makes the feature the second of the largest confirmed impact structures on Earth, and the only one whose peak ring is intact and directly accessible for scientific research.
In 2002 the Denver Formation was included as part of a larger unconformity-bounded unit named the D1 sequence, in order to facilitate basin-wide studies and avoid confusion arising from the lateral and vertical facies changes that occur within the Denver Basin.
Synonyms Sunella nanchengensis (Huo, 1965) Luella (Huo, 1965) Chiella (Huo, 1965) Sunella nanchengensis Sunella nanchengensis (Huo, 1965) is a probable sexual dimorph of S.
They argue that what had been interpreted as a Cambrian-Ordovician extinction is instead an artifact resulting from a gap in the stratigraphic record.
This was not highly plausible because every other element was exceptionally preserved on the same bedding plane, so it was unlikely that apparatuses were preserved incompletely.
Other Volcanic activity has also been promoted as a possible cause of the cat gap as well as other extinctions during this time period.
Passenger pigeon The passenger pigeon was a flocking species that was once a species widespread in North America.
Ferruginous anoxic conditions can be distinguished from euxenic conditions by a DOP less than about 0.7.
Fishing has had a devastating effect on marine organism populations for several centuries even before the explosion of destructive and highly effective fishing practices like trawling.
Proposed by Luis and Walter Alvarez, it is now widely accepted that the extinction was caused by a huge asteroid or bolide that impacted Earth in the shallow seas of the Gulf of Mexico, leaving behind the Chicxulub crater.
The new genus, Slimonia, could be differentiated from other known species of Pterygotus most apparently by the lack of large cheliceral claws, otherwise a defining characteristic of Pterygotus.
The End-Ediacaran extinction, also called the Kotlin Crisis, is a mass extinction believed to have occurred near the end of the Ediacaran period, the final period of the Proterozoic eon.
The species Lepidopteris ottonis evolved a reliance on asexual reproduction amidst the environmental chaos of the TJME.
The Cenomanian-Turonian boundary event, also known as the Cenomanian-Turonian extinction, Cenomanian-Turonian Oceanic Anoxic Event (OAE 2), and referred to also as the Bonarelli Event or Level, was an anoxic extinction event in the Cretaceous period.
There is no evidence that [Chatterjee is] presenting of it actually being a crater", and described the oval shape of the structure as unlikely for an impact crater.
Lithology The Wapiti Formation consists of interbedded sandstones, siltstones, shales and mudstones, with thin conglomerates, coal seams and bentonite beds.
As the balance shifts between the global cryosphere and hydrosphere, more of the planet's water in ice sheets means less in the oceans.
Taghanic onlap The period of global warming that caused the Taghanic event melted ice caps, causing sea levels to rise.
Ordovician and Silurian Rutgersella and Devonian Protonympha have been interpreted as surviving vendobionts, comparable with Ediacaran Dickinsonia and Spriggina, respectively.
It is classified as a pan-dermatemydid due to the contact between the inguinal buttress and the eighth peripheral bone.
Biotic effects The crisis primarily affected graptolites, benthic organisms, and microphytoplankton.
Anoxia may have persisted under a "haline mode" in which circulation was driven by subtropical evaporation, although the "haline mode" is highly unstable and was unlikely to have represented Late Permian oceanic circulation.
At 3 °C (5.4 °F), there are more highly vulnerable species (205) than moderately vulnerable species (140).
Deposition of this largely sedimentary succession extended from approximately 2.5 to 2.2 billion years ago (Gya), during the Siderian and Rhyacian periods of the Paleoproterozoic era.
The Willow Creek Formation is a stratigraphic unit of Late Cretaceous to Early Paleocene age in the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin of southwestern Alberta.
Balkanatolia acted as a staging ground for Asian taxa that immigrated into Europe following the extinction of its own mammal fauna during the Grande Coupure.
Taphrosphys is an extinct genus of bothremydid pleurodiran turtle that was discovered Angola, Morocco and the United States.
Events The Dresbachian extinction event during the Late Cambrian was the second of two severe extinctions during the first period of the Paleozoic era; the first being the End-Botomian extinction event during the Middle Cambrian.
Invertebrates The fossil record of insects can be difficult to study, due to the generally smaller and more delicate nature of their bodies.
This isotopic excursion is also known from the Jočionys-299 borehole in eastern Lithuania, as well as in coeval deposits in the Appalachian Basin of North America and has also been termed the Šilalė Low.
Rex is hunting when his acute sense of smell alerts him to the intruder and he runs back to the nest.
The Couches de Saint Christophe occupy the following nappes: External Valais Moûtiers unit Roc de l'Enfer unit Petit St.
The closest sister group of the Pterygotioidea, Adelophthalmoidea, also contains a large amount of species, over 40, and is the second most diverse eurypterid superfamily.
The similarity between the geochemical data of Rajmahal volcanos and lavas of the Kerguelen Plateau confirms this.
This is the only time that a single species or genus of land animal dominated the Earth to such a degree.
Methanogens A hypothesis published in 2014 posits that a genus of anaerobic methanogenic archaea known as Methanosarcina was responsible for the event.
The hundreds of fish remains are distributed by size, and generally show evidence of tetany (a body posture related to suffocation in fish), suggesting the suffocation of an entire population.
The crater was discovered by Antonio Camargo and Glen Penfield, geophysicists who had been looking for petroleum in the Yucatán during the late 1970s.
As oxygen accumulates an ozone layer is established, and photochemical reactions involved in the destruction and reformation of ozone impart a mass independent isotope signature into atmospheric oxygen.
The moa, large flightless ratites, were thriving during the Late Holocene, but became extinct within 200 years of the arrival of human settlers, as did the enormous Haast's eagle - their primary predator - the omnivorous adzebills and at least two species of large, flightless geese.
Both species have shorter cardinal spines than Caudicaella bispinata also Caudicaella bispinata is more similar to Isoxys than other sunellids which led to its assignment to Isoxys in Zhang et al.
Description Agomphus is identified as a kinosternoid turtle by features such as costiform processes, a thickened, cross-shaped plastron, and the absence of extragular scutes.
Despite the closure of Olson's Gap, the presence of an extinction event at the Kungurian–Roadian boundary was still disputed.
Lithology The Rajmahal volcanics are predominantly tholeiitic basalt, quartz tholeiite, olivine tholeiite and alkali basalt.
The raptorial appendages were composed of twelve segments, with the 9 segments furthest from the body each bearing a pair of upward-facing (endite) spines with the last segment bearing a terminal spine.
Forty-five minutes after impact, the ejecta cloud rolls into Mongolia from the east, increasing the temperature by several degrees every second until it reaches 300 °F (150 °C).
modern rivers with large channels that are tens to hundreds of meters wide" "[The Event flood deposits are] indicative of a westward or inland flow direction that is opposite of the natural (ancient) current of the ...
Due to the relatively shallow water at the impact site, the rock that was vaporized included sulfur-rich gypsum from the lower part of the Cretaceous sequence, and this was injected into the atmosphere.
In marine organisms, relatively modest but sustained increases in CO2 concentrations hamper the synthesis of proteins, reduce fertilization rates, and produce deformities in calcareous hard parts.
The evolution of increased competitive ability (EICA) hypothesis was first proposed by Bernd Blossey and Rolf Nötzold in 1995 as a way to explain the success of invasive, non-indigenous species (in particular, plants).
"Short day" breeders cycle when the length of daylight shortens (fall) and are in anestrus in spring and summer.
Bernard Weiner proposed a detailed account of the attributional approach to learned helplessness in 1986.
The terms "primitive" and "advanced", etc., are not properly used in referring to a species or an organism as any species or organism is a mosaic of primitive and derived traits.
Black garden ants Midden formation in insects was first observed in black garden ants, Lasius niger.
Evolution of co-operation Co-operation is any group behavior that benefits the individuals more than if they were to act as independent agents.
Therefore, infectious heredity plays an important role in evolution, for example in the formation of the female placenta.
The founder effect occurs when a small founding population is moved to a new area and propagates the future population.
Darwin recognised the importance of red algae, and he reviewed other organisms that could have helped to build the reefs.
Psychiatry, thus, involves the diagnosis and treatment of what Lilienfeld (1879: 280) termed "physiological social pathology", and may be classed as a subfield of sociophysiology, called "pathological sociophysiology" by Zeliony (1912: 405).
However, when presented with simulated stranger and neighbour intruders during their female's fertile period, males exhibited an equal response to both stimuli, likely in order to protect their paternity.
In population genetics, the Balding–Nichols model is a statistical description of the allele frequencies in the components of a sub-divided population.
Parallelism and convergence Parallel and convergent evolution lead to homoplasy when different species independently evolve or gain apparently identical features, which are different from the feature inferred to have been present in their common ancestor.
In such structures we can retrace and follow the evolutionary process by which the environment produced structures, especially nervous systems and brains, which generate adaptive behavior.
Different names have been used to designate the corresponding systems, in particular: paleo-inspired, antiqua-inspired, antiquity-inspired or archaeomimetic.
In parallel, recent advancements in fabrication techniques, computational imaging, and simulation tools have opened up new possibilities to mimic nature across different architectural scales.
Red Queen hypothesis The Red Queen hypothesis states that both host and parasite have to change continuously to keep up with each other's adaptations, like the description in Lewis Carroll's fiction.
Use of term in robotics There is also use of the term 'microbivore' to qualify the concept of robots autonomously finding their energy in the production of bacteria.
First one conducted in Moffitt Cancer Center on patients with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer showed outcomes that "show significant improvement over published studies and a contemporaneous population." This study met with some criticism.
Another explanation for the neoteny in domesticated animals can be the selection for certain behavioral characteristics.
The autocatalytic cycle begins with the aldol reaction of 1 with formaldehyde to make glyceraldehyde (2).
References OSU media release on discovery http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/us/AP-Ancient-Bee.html (New York Times registration required) AAAS News release.
A gorilla's forearm and wrist bones lock together to be able to sustain the weight of the animal and create a strong supporting structure.
A prevalent way of creating predicted distribution maps for different species is to reclassify a land cover layer depending on whether or not the species in question would be predicted to habit each cover type.
In a protein-coding sequence of DNA, a site is synonymous if a point mutation at that site would not change the amino acid, also known as a silent mutation.
MHC genes code for receptors that identify foreign pathogens in the body so that the immune system may respond and destroy them.
In 1930 he graduated from the University of Pécs with a PhD in Palaeontology, Geology and Geography.
Fossilized leaves characteristic of more mesic landscapes, faunal community compositions, and increase "C4" or arid-adapted plant contribution to herbivore carbon intake, all suggest that the Miocene world was more lush than the Pliocene.
Nonallelic/ectopic gene conversion Recombination occurs not only during meiosis, but also as a mechanism for repair of double-strand breaks (DSBs) caused by DNA damage.
Other studies have disputed this and suggested the Haramiyida were not crown group mammals, but were part of an earlier offshoot of Mammaliaformes instead, either closely related or unrelated to Multituberculates.
Insects Pollinators, like butterflies, show behavioral response(s) to supernormal stimuli through intersexual communication.
He sought to find a compromise between science and religion and wrote, in 1957, Evolutionary theory and Christian belief, on the relationship between Christian faith and evolutionary theory.
Human life history Lummaa's research into the life history and evolution of contemporary humans has been widely covered by the press.
Identifying which of the six perturbations is occurring is critical in identifying the actual underlying mechanism driving peramorphosis or paedomorphosis.
Dry adhesion Leg attachment pads of several animals, including many insects (e.g., beetles and flies), spiders and lizards (e.g., geckos), are capable of attaching to a variety of surfaces and are used for locomotion, even on vertical walls or across ceilings.
In cuisine Animal feces-made food include but are not limited to Kopi luwak, insect tea, and Black Ivory Coffee.
Systematics Eritherium is the oldest known representative of the Proboscidea, although it remains unassigned to any family within this order.
permanent), since any DNA repair mechanism would have no source from which to recover the original undamaged sequence.
RNA is capable of both catalysis and replication and could have been central to the origins of heredity and life itself.
Fire ants use their strong bite to get a grip on prey, then inject a toxin via their stinger and carry the prey back to their territory.
Mesowear analyses require large sample populations (>20), which can be problematic for some localities, but the method yields an accurate depiction of an animal's average lifelong diet.
Lithopanspermia is the proposed transfer of organisms in rocks from one planet to another through planetary objects such as in comets or asteroids; it remains speculative.
Paley, writing long before Charles Darwin published On the Origin of Species in 1859, held that the complexity of living organisms was evidence of the existence of a divine creator by drawing a parallel with the way in which the existence of a watch compels belief in an intelligent watchmaker.
A number of catfish, including those in the families Doradidae and Pimelodidae, such as Platydoras and Pimelodus, also possess specialized drumming muscles attached to their swimbladders in order to produce sound.
Even within the red deer species, there is variation between sub-species and breeds in wallowing behaviour.
Their work has generated substantial interest and further research into major transitions, including a devoted issue of papers to the subject in 2016 in the journal Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B.
He was the Associate Director for Scientific Activities at the National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis during the life of the NSF award (2008-2021) and the Director of the Center for the Dynamics of Social Complexity (DySoC) (2018-2022).
The simplest means to identify duplications in genomic resequencing data is through the use of paired-end sequencing reads.
Thus the duty of the socio-physiologist is to give a description of the nervous processes of groups which have resulted in changes in the [physical and social] environment.
Hypnic jerk The sudden startled arm-jerking response sometimes experienced when on the verge of sleeping is known as the hypnic jerk.
He studied at both Oxford and Cambridge in the 1980s (his doctoral advisor being Richard Dawkins), and later worked at Emory University.
Haramiyida is a possibly paraphyletic order of mammaliaform cynodonts or mammals of controversial taxonomic affinites.
Compartmentalization with membranes was not yet completed and translation of proteins was not precise.
Zeitschrift für Anatomie und Entwicklungsgeschichte (Zeitschrift für die gesamte Anatomie), Berlin, Verlag von Julius Springer, 1931, Bd.
Invasive species Hybrid swarms can pose a significant threat to an ecosystem when they involve invasive species, as invasive hybrids are frequently able to easily outcompete native species.
Because more closely associated individuals are more likely to interact with each other, information is assumed to travel along social ties.
Scientific activity For many years engaged in the study of fetal pathologies of the nervous system, he develops methods of their diagnosis.
A recent study suggests hard food, or at least some types, may not contribute significantly to microwear textures.
Turner's current research focuses on the emergence of super-organismal structure and function in mound-building termites of southern Africa (Macrotermes).
There is however some controversy about whether this is a true case of wolf in sheep's clothing mimicry.
Using data from genetic markers such as ISSRs and RAPDs as well as the predictive potential of statistics, studies have developed models to infer what processes drove the lack of equilibrium.
One Arabian horse has been recorded with 40 whorls on his body, although the average horse has around six.
Several factors affect this relationship, including handling time (the time required for a predator to consume its prey), selective feeding behaviors, and learning.
Human female sexual selection is indicated by sexual dimorphism, especially in traits that serve little other evolutionary purpose, such as the presence in men of beards, overall lower voice pitch, and average greater height.
Working until his last day as a professor of genetics, Dobzhansky died (from heart failure) on December 18, 1975, in Davis, California.
The term has been used interchangeably with "appeasement signals." Calming signals, or appeasement signals, are communicative cues used by dogs to de-escalate aggressive encounters or to prevent the development of aggressive encounters completely.
It was also shown that Montmorillonite clay could provide a surface for phosphorimidazolide-mediated oligonucleotide formation with lengths of 20-50 bases.
Vertebrates including several species of frog put on warning displays; some of these species have poison glands.
Aneuploidy Aneuploidy occurs when nondisjunction at a single chromosome results in an abnormal number of chromosomes.
Her philosophical contribution is now being rediscovered as part of the recovery of women in the history of philosophy.
Botanical career Between 1871 and 1873, Bennett wrote a series of papers on fertilisation in plants that brought him to the attention of Charles Darwin, who encouraged his efforts.
See also Evolutionary faunas, the third of which corresponds to the Mesozoic–Cenozoic radiation == References ==
Mary Jane West-Eberhard (born 1941) is an American theoretical biologist noted for arguing that phenotypic and developmental plasticity played a key role in shaping animal evolution and speciation.
Though August Weismann did propose his theory of programmed death, it was met with criticism and never gained mainstream attention.
Two rice (Oryza sativa) ecotypes are adapted to very different water regimes of the upland and lowland ecosystems in China.
This was surprising, because it had been assumed that butterflies and moths first emerged alongside flowering plants in the Cretaceous.
Ordinal based selection The ordinal based selection methods include the tournament and ranking selection.
Semantics and definitions While this type of application has been known for a long time, the concept itself was coined by teams from the French National Centre for Scientific Research, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Bern University of Applied Sciences from the term Bioinspiration.
The phenomenon known as Hybridization of the Habitat echoes this idea, explaining that disturbances in a natural habitat can lead to species which typically do not hybridize and backcross to do so with relative ease.
Each of the inventions and hybrids are explained: In the old days, hatching eggs would take 3 weeks.
Of these three model species, the success and behavior of Sapium sebifurum agreed most closely with the postulates of the EICA Hypothesis, according to the researches conducting the study.
The nocturnal bottleneck hypothesis is an evolutionary biology hypothesis to explain the origin of several mammalian traits.
"Using mitochondrial DNA to test the hypothesis of a European post-glacial human recolonization from the Franco-Cantabrian refuge".
As time went on biologists like Gould moved away from wedding punctuated equilibrium to allopatric speciation, particularly as evidence accumulated in support of other modes of speciation.
Between the two World Wars, Soviet biological research managed to connect genetics with field research on natural populations.
The occurrence of homoplasy is viewed by some biologists as an argument against Gould's theory of evolutionary contingency.
In many cases, the closest available mate is a mother, sister, grandmother, father, brother, or grandfather.
No differences in the relative durations of behavioral patterns within a single dust bath were found.
Saint Roch in the Middle Ages was said to have been cured of a plague of sores by licking from his dog.
He included precise, quantitative evidence on effective natural selection in laboratory and free populations.
Kirchner claimed that Lovelock and Margulis had not presented one Gaia hypothesis, but four: CoEvolutionary Gaia: that life and the environment had evolved in a coupled way.
Hence, homozygote and heterozygote genotypes for the sickle-cell disease allele show malaria resistance, while the homozygote suffers from severe disease phenotype.
The next step was to evaluate the size of the skull in the two different discovery groups, and in this study they found no difference between the two, the first indication that they may in fact be of the same species.
The Avida-ED software runs as a web application in the browser, with the user interface implemented in JavaScript and Avida compiled to JavaScript using Emscripten, making the software broadly compatible with devices commonly used in classrooms.
Because animal behavior can only be inferred from idiosyncratic human experiences, as the own mind is the only accessible source which does not necessarily need to overlap with the experiences animals have, the projection from the human mind to the animal mind cannot be justified.
As a biological rule, the principle can be formalised and generalised to apply to reproducing organisms in general, including animals and plants.
The effect on predators Phagomimicry Phagomimicry is the defensive behaviour in which expelled chemicals mimic food, deceiving some organisms to eat it instead.
Interest in sexual systems goes back to Charles Darwin, who found that barnacles include some species that are androdioecious and some that are dioecious.
Prior to this, scientists thought that only humans manufactured and used tools, and that this ability was what separated humans from other animals.
Life Croizat was born in Torino, Italy to Vittorio Croizat (aka Victor Croizat) and Maria (Marie) Chaley, who had emigrated to Turin from Chambéry, France.
A selection limit is a term from animal breeding and quantitative genetics that refers to a cessation of progress even when continued directional selection is being applied to a trait, such as body size.
In this work, he departed from the contemporary style with a distinct de-emphasis on rare and accidental birds.
The term bionic then became associated with "the use of electronically operated artificial body parts" and "having ordinary human powers increased by or as if by the aid of such devices".
The Malthusian hypothesis is also limited by social change about family size, as some people prefer a smaller family owing to economic restrictions.
The fragmentation of the supercontinent Pangaea has been related to an increase in both marine and terrestrial biodiversity.
In "The New Principle of Biology: An Essay on the Theory of Symbiogenesis" Kozo-Polyansky posited many novel theories and observations that had yet been developed by other biologists.
Shape definition Sharp: A sharp cusp terminates to a point and has practically no rounded area between the mesial and distal phase I facets, Round: a rounded cusp has a distinctly rounded tip (apex) without planar facet wear but retains facets on the lower slopes.
Between 1996 and 2003, she worked at the University of St Andrews, University of Otago, the Natural History Museum, London, and the University of Canterbury successively.
Darwin's finches Lack's most famous work is Darwin's Finches, a landmark study whose title linked Darwin's name with the Galapagos group of species and popularised the term "Darwin's finches" in 1947, though the term had been introduced by Percy Lowe in 1936.
By 2011, the findings by the same researcher were simply "Dogs are not paedomorphic wolves." In other animals Neoteny has also been observed in many other species in the wild.
Description Ballooning is a behavior in which spiders and some other invertebrates use airborne dispersal to move between locations.
These are 10 to 20 km south of Grand Daoui, where in 1996 (Phosphatherium) and 2002 (Daouitherium) two early proboscideans were described.
Adaptive mutation, also called directed mutation or directed mutagenesis is a controversial evolutionary theory.
Epigenetic alterations Mutations are distinctly different from epigenetic alterations, although they share some common features.
A study done examining glucose tolerance of individuals born during a famine in the Netherlands in 1944-1945 favors the “thrifty phenotype” hypothesis.
Whorls on Thoroughbred horses may be physical indicators of a predisposition to perform repetitive abnormal behaviours, i.e.
This hypothesis proposes that natural selection can only explain adaptation for a limited range of conditions, for instance when populations are genetically homogeneous.
Through experimentation and improved phylogenetic testing capabilities, we now see that the ability to produce fertile hybrid offspring varies by genus, within the plant kingdom.
The sound producing organ, the tymbals, are connected to the abdomen, and as a consequence their calls are amplified significantly; cicadas have been recorded to emit sounds of around 100 decibels, which is enough to cause hearing loss after 15 minutes.
It could be, therefore, that the EICA Hypothesis is too narrow in scope, and should be reworded to place an emphasis on an invasive species' ability to reallocate its resources in order to procure a fitness advantage that may or may not involve more vigorous growth and development.
Paraspecies are expected from evolutionary theory (Crisp and Chandler, 1996), and are empirical realities in many terrestrial and aquatic taxa.
Joe Brandon to produce a public response to the Discovery Institute's 2001 petition A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism.
In the cephalopods, different species of octopuses, squids, cuttlefish and the paper nautilus are deimatic.
Furthermore, a vertebrate fish, Poecilia formosa, seems to defy the ratchet effect, having existed for 500,000 generations.
Rabelais studied medicine, but was also a writer of satirical and grotesque fiction, so the truth of this statement is unclear.
Description The holotype specimen is about 26 centimetres (10 in) in length and about 11 centimetres (4.3 in) in depth.
He returned to Germany and began his studies on feather structure under Valentin Haecker (1864–1927) who had himself studied under August Weismann.
In this respect, cooperative hunting is not just a function of the species, but also of its environment.
Her name and picture (and those of 58 other women's suffrage supporters) are on the plinth of the statue of Millicent Fawcett in Parliament Square, London, unveiled in 2018.
Condensation to form liquid oceans is theorised to have occurred as early as the Moon-forming impact.
Chetverikov led a team at the Nikolai Koltsov Institute of Experimental Biology in Moscow, and in 1926 produced what should have been one of the landmark papers of the modern synthesis.
; enclosing crude material for nourishment in stomachal spaces, and ejecting the refuse, like Amoeba.
In evolutionary genetics, Muller's ratchet (named after American geneticist Hermann Joseph Muller, by analogy with a ratchet effect) is a process which, in the absence of recombination (especially in an asexual population), results in an accumulation of irreversible deleterious mutations.
This behavior is named after the fire-bellied toad (German: Unke; combining form: Unken-) which exhibits this reflex.
Moczek (born 8 July 1969 in Munich) is a German evolutionary biologist and full professor at Indiana University Bloomington.
In 1876 Thomas Henry Huxley, an early advocate of evolutionary theory, proposed a revised taxonomy based on a concept strongly resembling clades, although the term clade itself would not be coined until 1957 by his grandson, Julian Huxley.
Altricial species Altricial young are born deaf, blind, almost completely hairless and have very limited motor functioning.
Despite his great aptitude for the natural sciences, Leon studied and received a degree in law from the University of Turin.
Serpin superfamily Members share a high-energy, stressed fold which can undergo a large conformational change, which is typically used to inhibit serine and cysteine proteases by disrupting their structure.
It was during this time that he began to formulate a novel current of thought in evolutionary theory, opposed in some respects to Darwinism, on the evolution and dispersal of biota over space, through time.
Every time a new species (or other taxon) enters the sample, it brings over all other fossils belonging to that species in the collection (its "share" of the collection).
While the early mammals continued to develop into several probably quite common groups of animals during the Mesozoic, they all remained relatively small and nocturnal.
The life history of marine organisms like sea urchins appear to fulfill the requirements of genetic equilibrium modeling better than terrestrial species.
All the atmospheric gases other than noble gases present in the atmosphere are either made by organisms or processed by them.
The aerodynamics which usually give a bird lift during flying are thereby inverted and the bird briefly plummets toward the ground before this is quickly reversed and the bird adopts a normal flying orientation.
Auersperg discovered that the animal was using the pole as an example of "flexible tool use" by wielding the stick, then both ends of a broom, to scratch different parts of her body that were itching from insect bites.
Martin Ogle, Chief Naturalist, for NVRPA, and long-time Gaia hypothesis proponent, organized the event.
Several researchers proposed a solution to these problems by introducing space into the initial model either explicitly or in the form of a spatial segregation within compartments.
In the GSM, the rate of change Δ Q {\displaystyle \Delta Q} is inversely proportional to the mean fitness W ¯ {\displaystyle {\overline {W}}} —i.e.
Cobbe found it so watered-down that she gave up on regulation and began to campaign for the abolition of vivisection.
Rescue behaviour has been demonstrated in a very limited range of animals that include ants, primates including humans, a few bird species, such as the Australian magpie, and wild boar.
Many spiders use especially fine silk called gossamer to lift themselves off a surface, and silk also may be used by a windblown spider to anchor itself to stop its journey.
The existence of distinct families of carbonic anhydrase is believed to illustrate convergent evolution.
All other words as reported by the media were treated as fiction, second-hand and interpretations of retellings (such as if, for example, Batyr were heard to say "water" and the media reported it as "the elephant asked to drink").
Animals A population of Drosophila melanogaster (common fruit fly or vinegar fly) found inside a wine cellar has a greater alcohol tolerance than a population found outside the wine cellar.
First-year, independent young self-anointed more than adults, and male hedgehogs had more indications of self-anointing than females.
Haldane independently postulated his primordial soup theory in 1929 in an eight-page article "The origin of life" in The Rationalist Annual.
Biparental care is common in birds, where the role of the male involves finding food and defending the nest, and the maternal behaviors involve caring for the chicks in the nest.
By virtue of their high degree of homology, the new gene copies that came into existence following the gene duplication naturally tend to either unequal crossover or unidirectional gene conversion events.
The vocalizations are most commonly used by adult females around birthing season; the female will direct the call towards an unrelated mother and her offspring as an attempt to initiate friendly contact.
Williams formalised the argument to create a mathematical theory of evolutionary decision-making, based on the framework outlined in 1930 by R.
This response, though faint, fleeting and hardly discernible in humans nonetheless clearly manifests itself.
The reviewer, too, objects to Bates's illustration of "transition forms between Heliconius Melpomene and H.
Skinner coined the term operant conditioning to refer to the modification or development of specific voluntary behavior through the use of reinforcement and punishment.
Critics Russian paleontologist Stanislav Drobyshevsky and science journalist Sergey Sokolov published very detailed and devastated critics on the Saveljev´s book "Возникновение мозга человека" (Human brain genesis).
It studies the relationships between genetic variation and environmental gradients within a species.
Kohler argued that Thorndike's puzzle-boxes presented no other method of escape except the method presented by the experiment as "correct", and in doing-so the cognitive problem solving abilities of the animal are rendered useless.
Natural selection allowed for the spreading of the sickle-cell gene in areas of high numbers of mosquitoes carrying malaria; those that weren't as susceptible to malaria were much more likely to live than those that were.
Nuptial tubercles have been described as an honest signal of the general health of the male bearer, in common with other biological ornaments.
Kretzoi studied Arts and natural sciences at the then Pázmány Péter University, Budapest from 1925 to 1929.
A burrow is a hole or tunnel excavated into the ground by an animal to construct a space suitable for habitation or temporary refuge, or as a byproduct of locomotion.
However, other factors may interfere with the realization of genetic gains before loss of genetic variation causes a selection limit.
Morowitz was a longtime consultant for NASA, and served on the committees that planned the quarantine procedures for Apollo 11 and the biology experiments the Viking probe carried to the surface of Mars.
Consequentially, cooperative hunting most likely evolved in areas with scarce prey distribution, and patterns of this behavior are likely to vary with seasonal fluctuation of available resources.
Spontaneous absolute asymmetric synthesis is a chemical phenomenon that stochastically generates chirality based on autocatalysis and small fluctuations in the ratio of enantiomers present in a racemic mixture.
In dimorphic sexual systems, individual plants within a species only produce one sort of flower, either hermaphrodite or male, or female.
Similarly, this can be seen in proteins as tolerance to a wide range of solvents, ion concentrations or temperatures.
Species from Dolichoderinae and Myrmicinae subfamilies are also used for anting however, not as common as Formicinae.
Resident males treat familiar neighbours that had been moved to the opposite boundary to the shared boundary as equally aggressive as strangers.
Methods that account for biases in codon usage and transition/transversion rates are substantially more reliable than those that do not.
In 2006, Nature listed it as one of the top five science blogs, and Mark Pallen has called it "the definitive blog on the evolution versus creationism debate".
The female Asian forest tortoise (Manouria emys) has been reported to guard a nest site for a short period after egg laying but this instinct is very short lived.
The mother feeds these altricial young by a process known as maternal dermatophagy, in which she will feed pieces of her skin to her young.
Darwin noted the horrors of death and destruction, and FitzRoy carefully established that mussel beds were now above high tide, giving clear evidence of the ground rising some 9 ft (2.7 m), which he confirmed a month later.
Somatic evolution is the accumulation of mutations and epimutations in somatic cells (the cells of a body, as opposed to germ plasm and stem cells) during a lifetime, and the effects of those mutations and epimutations on the fitness of those cells.
From 2015-2020 she was also a Morgridge Family Fellow (Stanford Graduate Fellowship in Science and Engineering).
He is a distinguished university professor at the University of Maryland and professor emeritus of molecular biology and genetics at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.
She was a postdoctoral fellow from 1990-1992 in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of California, Irvine (UCI) with Richard Lenski where she worked on the long-term E.
However, the 325 signatures collected in the first four hours can be compared to the Discovery Institute's gathering of 400 signatures of self-identified scientists, most in irrelevant fields, in four years.
Chetverikov influenced several Russian geneticists who later came to work in the West, such as Theodosius Dobzhansky and Nikolay Timofeev-Ressovsky, both of whom continued to work in a similar style.
Reinforcement's ubiquity is unknown, but the patterns of reproductive character displacement are found across numerous taxa and is considered to be a common occurrence in nature.
Because mongooses and mustelids occupy similar ecological niches, they had led to similarity in form and behavior.
On 24 August Henslow wrote to Darwin: ...that I consider you to be the best qualified person I know of who is likely to undertake such a situation—I state this not on the supposition of yr.
Later editions In March 2018, Breakdown Press published a new edition of the book, updated to reflect modern science relating to evolution.
A new generation of solutions is thereby created, the children, who will constitute the next population.
The mechanic reaction to the environment through instincts without own intentions goes back to the mechanistic view Knickenberg is portraying of animals.
They prefer to strike prey that is both warm and moving; their pit organs between the eye and the nostril contain infrared (heat) receptors, enabling them to find and perhaps judge the size of their small, warm-blooded prey.
Adaptive therapy is an evolutionary therapy that aims to maintain or reduce tumor volume by employing minimum effective drug doses or timed drug holidays.
In areas of low prey density, predators are adapted to be more motile, engage in filter feeding, or use attractants such as chemical lures.
Significance The fossil of Archaeolepis consists of wings with scales that are similar to those in lepidopterans.
They were attempting to create software for INTEC (a company that they started) that would be made for "people's souls".
In this dark and surreal atmosphere, the film explores resilience and the search for a better world, amidst a devastated landscape filled with mysteries that will never be explained.
In his 2005 review in The Space Review of Alien Planet, a 2005 TV special based on Expedition, space historian Dwayne A.
In a potential future, Professor X recovers the remnants of Cerebro and uses them to send messages to the past X-Men.
In the television series Earth: Final Conflict (1997–2002), the Atavus species traveled to Earth in the distant past and ruled over it, using Neanderthal men as slaves and a food source.
The Big Question is a five-part science documentary television series broadcast in the United Kingdom on the Five channel, beginning January 2004 and continuing into 2005.
Chikkun Kingdom) is an action video game that was released by Hudson Soft for Game Boy on April 22, 1994 in Japan.
A renegade faction of the Imperial Guard — mainly made up of Borderers, but also including Fang, Hussar, Quasar, and Warstar — become traitors, deciding to serve Lord Samédàr, Deathbird, and the Brood in a conspiracy to overthrow Shi'ar Princess-Majestrix Lilandra.
The main concern was to have the music help progress the plot in the scenes without dialogue, for instance, conveying the emotions of Caesar's relationships with Will and Charles.
One example of how unintelligent the captain was depicted initially is that he was seen to wear his hat upside-down, only to fix it before he challenges AUTO.
The series is about human evolution and is narrated by biologist George McGavin and anatomist Alice Roberts.
The novel was adapted to film the same year, under the same title, by Alexander's friend Nicholas Meyer who had optioned the story after reading the early pages.
These include "Teasing" and "Flat Pack", which were both nominated for Best Music for Children's Television in 2019 and 2020 respectively.
Lisa Kennedy of The Denver Post gave the film three and a half stars out of four, saying "It captures the wonder (and more gently, the anxiety) of discovery time and time again.
in 1970 as Because It Is Absurd: On Earth as It Is in Heaven by Elisabeth Abbott) Histoires perfides (1976; tr.
Genera Stümpke's book classifies 138 species of rhinograde in the following fictitious genera: The names generally refer to particular forms or functions of the nasorium of animals in that genus, typically providing vernacular names for clarity.
United States was a 2003 decision in the United States Court of International Trade that determined that for purposes of tariffs, Toy Biz's action figures were toys, not dolls, because they represented "nonhuman creatures".
The Flight Alpha Flight Original Recruits Re-formed (Volume 2) "All-New, All-Different" Alpha Flight (Volume 3) Fall of X (Volume 5) Alpha Flight temporal copies Beta Flight Gamma Flight Omega Flight == References ==
Inspiration for Nebogipfel Since the 1970s there has been some discussion among scholars about a possible source of inspiration for Nebogipfel, since he is the root of the stock character of the time-travelling scientist.
The miniseries was republished again in 1994 as two double-size books, with the name Machine Man 2020.
Darwinia is a 2005 real-time tactics and real-time strategy video game for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.
However, when Harcourt, Brace and World brought out my own selection of favourites, The Nine Billion Names of God, it was mysteriously changed to "Encounter at Dawn".
The series is based on the 2013 animated film The Croods, taking place before the events of the film.
He returns to his own time after completing his mission and again goes to the future to reunite with Weena.
David Watson replaced Roddy McDowall as Cornelius, as McDowall was unavailable due to a scheduling conflict.
Action News Philadelphia spoke to the widow of a man named James Joseph Morasco and identified him as a Philadelphia carpenter who had died in 2003, aged 87.
Vib-Ripple is notable for allowing the player to import photographs to be used as the game's playing field.
Squibbon (voiced by Richard Binsley) is an evolved squid that stowed away on the TimeFlyer on CG's first mission.
X-Corp (volume 1) A business delegation representing the nation of Krakoa debuted as part of Reign of X in 2021.
They said that they had been led to believe that "the movie was being made to be shown as an educational film on Australian broadcast television and possibly elsewhere", and had only been alerted to the true nature of the movie shortly before its release.
The concept of the game is to simulate an ecosystem; players may modify the genetics of the plants and animals that inhabit the virtual world.
Their first guest appearance was Lenore Zann, the voice of Rogue from X-Men: The Animated Series and now currently voicing the character in X-Men '97.
Gameplay Release and reception Super Genjin 2 was released for the Super Famicom in Japan on July 28, 1995.
Behind the Planet of the Apes is a 1998 American television documentary directed by Kevin Burns and David Comtois who also co-wrote it with Brian Anthony and produced by Foxstar Productions.
A fed up Farnsworth resolves to leave Earth and takes the rest of the crew with him to an abandoned planet to live in solitude.
New "cocoon masters" are now cited as "beasthunters" and are the prominent force of monster raising, with the player playing one named Kahu who visits the Temple of Kemuel in the hopes of becoming a beasthunter and having adventures like the old cocoon masters he's idolized.
Dickinson states he got the idea for his "pseudo-scientific monograph" after looking at one of Ursula K.
During this phase players in order can: take one token from the table ad place it, by the rules, on their own or another player's animal.
The book is published by Faber and Faber, which has also published the sequels More Flanimals, Flanimals of the Deep and Flanimals: The Day of the Bletchling.
The game was nominated for the "Best Graphics (Artistic) on GameCube" and "Best Game No One Played on GameCube" awards at GameSpot's Best and Worst of 2002 Awards, both of which went to Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem and Sega Soccer Slam, respectively.
Space has been the setting for many stories involving the likes of The Brood, such as the story arc where the villainous species was first introduced.
Film novelizations (1973-1974) Novelized adaptations of Planet of the Apes films written by Jerry Pournelle, David Gerrold and John Jakes.
Concept and creation Cerebro first appeared in X-Men #7 (September 1964), created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.
See also "The Sentinel", another story by Clarke with some similar ideas "The Red One", a short story by Jack London "Les Xipéhuz", a novella by writing duo J.-H.
Some of the people featured include physicists Michio Kaku and Stephen Hawking, paleontologist Jack Horner, NASA chief scientist James B.
If the hominid is scared for too long, its dopamine will deplete and it will descend into a state of hysteria.
Pal originally considered casting a middle-aged British actor like David Niven or James Mason as George.
Scientists in Arctic Scandinavia had accumulated enough evidence to suggest that golden eagles were the main predators of reindeer calves, but an attack had never been witnessed.
Reception Splice received generally positive reviews, gaining an aggregate review score on Metacritic of 86 for iOS and Android.
Sanders and includes the following participants (alphabetized by last name): Critical reception Neil Genzlinger of The New York Times noted, "Documentaries about prehistory and paleoanthropology are usually interesting, sometimes even thought-provoking.
Website An accompanying website to the series was launched in 2003, intended to act as a "stand-alone resource in its own right".
Jansen said, "We all had our little cabin where we could sleep and have some privacy if we wanted to, which also allowed us to have our spouses, children, friends or whatever just coming around.
Launched during the era of concerns over Y2K bugs, the ad implied that HAL's behavior was caused by a Y2K bug, before driving home the point that "only Macintosh was designed to function perfectly".
According to Day, the life of Darwin IV "makes the point that alien life, if it is detected, will challenge our abilities to understand and even comprehend it".
Series overview Episodes Season 1 (2015) Season 2 (2016) Season 3 (2017) Season 4 (2017) == References ==
Then, in the next generation, my clan will understand a little more, and will be able to stretch even further".
Poole resigns the game once HAL indicates a certain path to checkmate; however, the move which HAL suggests Frank might make is not forced.
As the series progresses, the investigators realize that the sinkholes are a spacetime portal to the same location in 10,000 BC.
Gameplay Jade Cocoon 2 centers its gameplay around monster collection, breeding, and strategic combat.
Synopsis Set in a future ravaged by environmental destruction, the film follows the life of a humanoid creature named Animalia, whose dream is to reach the ocean, a place she only knows through old recordings.
Every three levels is followed by the creature editor, in which the player may add an upgrade to their organism in four categories: perception, attack, defense, and movement.
The experiments found that the subjects took three to four days to overcome motion sickness and balance issues.
In the United States, tiles have officially been sighted as far west as Kansas City, Missouri, as far north as Boston, Massachusetts, and as far south as Richmond, Virginia.
Just go do your own movie." The other two novels have not been adapted for the screen, although actor Tom Hanks has expressed interest in possible adaptations.
Man After Man: An Anthropology of the Future is a 1990 speculative evolution and science fiction book written by Scottish geologist and palaeontologist Dougal Dixon and illustrated by Philip Hood.
Enhanced pattern-matching skills comparable to some forms of autism combine with this "hyperthreading" to make them invaluable in developing unusual and often very effective approaches to solving complex problems.
The bones of Snaiad creatures are usually black, brown, or green and can catch fire at high temperatures, as they are composed of a hypercompressed hydrocarbon rather than hydroxyapatite, like those of earth tetrapods.
Among other things, there was a surge of internet memes based on the book, primarily on YouTube and Twitter, as well as fan art based on the creatures in the book.
In the 2002 movie adaptation of The Time Machine, the Eloi are depicted as identical to modern humans with a hunter-gatherer lifestyle and sport primitive-style clothing and appear to be an ethnic amalgamation of various ethnic groups but maintain the English language as an intellectual exercise.
These swarms display complex behavior arising from self-organization and can incapacitate any intelligent threat by a powerful surge of electromagnetic interference.
Film In 1982, Rankin/Bass Productions released a made-for-TV animated film The Flight of Dragons, aspects of which were based on Dickinson's book.
Action takes place both in Victorian England and on Mars, as the time machine displaces the duo through space (in addition to time).
The fingers terminate in curved, retractable claws, which can be extended at will (such as when threatened).
The evolutionarily famous dodo (Raphus cucullatus) is a now-extinct bird that lived on the island of Mauritius.
Instead of collecting gun upgrades as in most games of this genre, the player's eater enhances itself by eating other creatures and assuming their abilities and defenses.
The first steps to beginning the project were taken in 2004 or 2005, when Kösemen, still a student, began drawing alien creatures.
Teddy's characterization in this comic hearkens back to his rough rider days more than his days as the President of the United States—he is portrayed more as an adventurer than as a statesman.
Nova often includes interviews with scientists doing research in the subject areas covered and occasionally includes footage of a particular discovery.
Examples of topics covered include the following: Colditz Castle, the Drake equation, elementary particles, the 1980 eruption of Mount St.
Meanwhile, a group of heroes come to obtain a shard of the M'Kraan Crystal and defeat the traitorous guards, Shi'ar soldiers, and Deathbird in the process.
Kornbluth's "The Little Black Bag"), and as the 42nd best all-time science fiction novelette in a 1999 Locus poll (tied with Edmond Hamilton's "What's It Like Out There?").
Background The Harmonized Tariff Schedule in US law distinguished between two types of action figures for determining tariffs: dolls, which are defined to include human figures, and toys, which include nonhuman "creatures".
Emily Wiseman as Helena (season 3), James' daughter and Gavin's half-sister who opposes the Reisander Group Episodes Series overview Season 1 (2021) Season 2 (2022–23) Season 3 (2024) Production Development On January 15, 2020, La Brea was given a pilot order by NBC.
The next day, the crew wakes up to find both Leela and Amy kidnapped by caveman-like robots, but the following day, they find that Leela and Amy are free, because the robot cavemen have since evolved into a completely civilized, modern robot society.
Whereas HAL was characterized as being "male", SAL is characterized as being "female" (voiced by Candice Bergen in the film) and is represented by a blue camera eye instead of a red one.
This virus is used to empower Donald Pierce's Reavers, a group of techno-organic infected humans serving Apocalypse's regime.
Throughout its development, some television executives had very different and conflicting ideas of what the series should be.
AUTO crushes WALL-E using the Holo-Detector, but McCrea rises from his chair, activates the manual override and deactivates AUTO.
Another patch (version 1.3) was released in September 2005, which includes the option (enabled by default) of clicking icons or using keyboard shortcuts to create units instead of using the gesture system.
Jack Seale of The Guardian praised the series' cinematography and visual effects with some exceptions, noting that "footage of animals that are real (...) and sequences conjured from scratch on a computer are nearly indistinguishable".
Evan says that all humans only "evolved" from other humans, and that they all come from Adam and Eve.
They are only addressed as "man" and from the few scenes where they show any visibility, they vaguely resemble modern humans.
Creatures, vehicles and buildings created using the game's other editors can be selected and placed throughout the world.
Enemies The enemies in Chimera Beast are mostly animals, some with equivalent Earth versions and some without.
Mountains resting at the end of the coast prevent most of the rain's moisture from reaching a long line of scrubby rainshadow deserts.
An unrelated game with the same name was released in 2009 for iOS devices as a sequel to Spore Origins, featuring similar gameplay to its predecessor.
The book served to highlight some of the vast amount of creature artwork created by Wētā Workshop for the film, much of which depicted creatures that had not made their way into King Kong.
An additional, selectable option from the main menu is the "Endurance" mode, where the player grows much slower.
However, Day also stated that the Darwinian creatures are thought-provoking and that their strangeness is a good departure from the typical science fiction approach of making alien life look much like Earth life (such as using humanoid aliens).
Reminding Holopainen of Once and Oceanborn, it features the first duel between him and guitarist Emppu Vuorinen in about 15 years.
I'm experimenting with a means of continuing this process in the same lifetime." – the dialogue foreshadowing the fate Ellis St.
At that time, a speech synthesis demonstration was being performed by physicist John Larry Kelly Jr., by using an IBM 704 computer to synthesize speech.
You could press 'pause' at any second and hang the frame on your wall." Richard Corliss of Time named it one of the Top 10 Best Movies of 2011.
She also notes that the stone tools found in China seem more primitive than those elsewhere, and infers that they were made exclusively by Homo erectus.
Unfortunately, it lacks variety and sounds more like a mini-game stretched out to become longer and, consequently, tedious." References External links Sparkle 3 on www.nintendo.com
Chronology Chronological order of The Croods' franchise history: Dawn of the Croods (2015–2017) The Croods (2013) Dawn of the Croods series finale (2017) The Croods: A New Age (2020) The Croods: Family Tree (2021-2023) References External links Official website
Joseph had in store for Gwyllm once Cathy pulls the lever on Mathers' machine, reversing his evolution.
The more he tries, the more primitive he gets, hooting and banging the beer on the bench, disrupting the trial.
And the scatological part, where they had somebody throwing shit, which stuck to my forehead—that’s not even funny." References External links "Go God Go" Full episode at South Park Studios "Go God Go" at IMDb
These experiences inspired The Bridge over the River Kwai, about the notorious Death Railway, which became an international bestseller.
In an epilogue, set in 3001, the original monolith discovered on the Moon in 1999 has been placed in the plaza of the ancient United Nations Building.
Gameplay The player takes control of Vibri, a simple, vector-shaped rabbit from the game's predecessor Vib-Ribbon.
Perry's skill is demonstrated by his rapid reprogramming of an off-course satellite, averting a disaster that could have destroyed Los Angeles.
Home consoles Rumors appeared online in May 2010 that the game would be ported to the PlayStation Network and Xbox Live Arcade services.
Other characters from the first Jade Cocoon also appear, like Kikinak, who became a rich shopkeeper thanks to Levant.
"Archeology" was released worldwide on YouTube in March 2025, while "Humpty Dumpty", "Green Bottles", "Flying Saucer", "Tea Party", "Pea Pod Sausages", "Old MacDonald", "Honk", "Lollipop Song", "Cinderella", and "Make Mum Laugh" will be released as Minisodes on Disney+ on May 20, 2026.
Production Announced in 2007, the production teams based at the BBC Natural History Unit in Bristol and BBC Wales spent three years shooting over 70 stories in some of the most remote locations on Earth spanning about 40 countries.
DreamWorks soon found that Harmony was not the best fit for animating scenes that contained multiple characters at once.
They come across a planet that is very similar to their own homeworld, and is inhabited by a species of intelligent but primitive humanoids.
She is a former leader of the Lazarus Project who traveled to 1988 to find the cause and stop the creation of the sinkholes that were created as a result of the Lazarus Project.
While Bacon wrote in Screen Rant that a writer writes any superhero as very powerful which could be pointed by fans to add their favourite character into the ranks of Omega-level mutants and writers might come under immense pressure from it.
Clarke witnessed the IBM 7094 demonstration during a trip to Bell Labs in 1962 and referred to it in the 1968 novel and film 2001: A Space Odyssey, in which the HAL 9000 computer sings "Daisy Bell" during its gradual deactivation.
He asks: "What happened to make the human brain take off?" The ability of a brain to run complex simulations is a powerful evolutionary advantage.
Throughout the game's operation, special events become available to all players for a limited amount of time, with new ones added after each subsequent update.
The name Yendred (or "Yendwed", as pronounced by one of the students, who has a speech impediment) is simply "Dewdney" reversed.
Chikkun Kingdom at The Bonk Compendium (covering all games and references to Bonk series) GB Genjin Land - Viva!
Gameplay Darwinia mixes elements from strategy, action, puzzle, hacker and God games alike, meaning that it does not fall under a specific video game genre.
The virus greatly weakened Summers, forcing him to dedicate most of his power to holding off the infection.
Animals can perish due to illness, injury, and even old age, so learning what will help them thrive with consideration to their living environment is key to not only building a solid tribe, but winning the game as well.
It is the sequel to Super Bonk and the fifth platform game in the Bonk series, and the second game in the series overall never to be released outside Japan.
Highlights Radio Events in the Darwin season are broadcast on the broadcaster's flagship voice programming channel, Radio 4 and its arts and culture channel, Radio 3.
3000 Mya: photosynthesis The second station describes the evolution of the molecular mechanism for photosynthesis.
Splice is no longer available for download on Android, Windows, Linux, iOS, iPadOS as well as the Mac App Store.
Finally, Iso took the opposite of the usual approach of linking ideas together before building the story in order to make the most of all the ideas that were adopted.
The final version of Man After Man, published as a book in 1990, was instead focused on future climate change through the eyes of future human descendants genetically engineered to adapt to it and was a project Dixon was reluctant to be involved in.
References External links Greenworld on Dougal Dixon's website "Anatomy of an Alien V / Greenworld I" at Sigmund Nastrazzurro's blog Furahan Biology and Allied Matters, featuring images from Greenworld and a segment of the planet's 1997 appearance in Natural History of an Alien.
According to Michael Hollister in his book Hollyworld, the path beyond the infinite is introduced by the vertical alignment of planets and moons with a perpendicular monolith forming a cross, as if the astronaut is about to become a new saviour.
The documentary discusses the ideas and works that led to the production of the films and franchise, including two television series, one live action and one animated for children.
Moses Nebogipfel takes up residence in a house neglected after the deaths of its former inhabitants.
A group of penguins has been confined to a barren island, while most of humanity has moved to floating islands.
Julia begins to display strange and abusive behavior toward her family until she's injured in a car crash, leaving Jack to consult Xymos where project manager Ricky is struggling with the nanobots.
References External links Official website for David Attenborough's First Life First Life at BBC Online First Life on the Eden website First Life at the BBC Press Office website (see "Nature" panel on right hand side of page) David Attenborough's First Life at IMDb
Imagining a post human cityscape where the dark past, present and future ecologies collapse, the Bronx Zoo, the New York City sewer system, Newtown Creek and the Gowanus Canal reveal their cryptic secrets.
The song is sung repeatedly in Stewart Parker and Jimmy Kennedy's play Spokesong (1975); a work which was staged in London's West End in 1977 and on Broadway in 1979.
Normally it proceeds in a cycle from hot to cold and back again, but on a 2 it stays the same, and on a 1 it moves in the opposite direction to the expected one.
Prevented from escaping, John explains that he wanted to leave as he is becoming a danger to himself and the crew.
Spore Origins (also known as Spore Mobile) is the mobile device spin-off of Spore, and focuses on a single phase of the larger game's gameplay - the cell phase.
Cast Reception A Matter of Faith was initially released to 25 movie theaters and its widest release was to 52 theaters.
The new human species is highly sensitive to all varieties of herpes and cannot be viably born to a mother who has ever been infected with any of the virus's many forms, including Epstein-Barr and the chickenpox, thus eliminating 95% of the female population.
Selected episodes have also been adapted into picture books, including "The Beach", which won the Australian Book Industry Awards for Book of the Year and Children's Picture Book of the Year (Ages 0–6) in 2020.
Instead the institute responded by creating a website, Hoax of Dodos, characterizing the documentary as "revisionist history," and a "hoax" filled with inaccuracies and misrepresentations.
See also Charles Darwin Foundation Galapagos National Park Lonesome George References External links Galápagos at BBC Online GalapagosTV: the video blog
Plot Three scientists, Altman, Bertrond, and Clindar, are crewing a spaceship on a survey of the Milky Way.
He rescues Weena and the Eloi, returns to his own time, and then to Weena's time to be reunited with her.
Track listing Reception David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter wrote "John Paesano’s full-bodied orchestral score propels things along with a robust emotional charge".
The documentary describes the human species and its relationship with the natural world by showing the remarkable ways humans have adapted to life in every environment on Earth.
While in the Northern Forest, a creature known as a "Squibbon" has stowed away on the Timeflyer, accidentally transporting C.G.
Gameplay Players in Space Odyssey are tasked with creating solar systems and larger stellar bodies in a virtual galaxy.
Machine Man and Red Hulk arrive in Sharzhad, where they find Shah in the disguise of Arabian Knight.
Watchit he is glad Alex has gone to a place where he can find peace, and Philby would like to hire her as a housekeeper.
The overall commissioning editor for the season is Martin Davidson, the BBC's commissioning editor for specialist factual (in-house).
In July 2019, during X-Men relaunch of the Krakoan Age, Jonathan Hickman provided an official definition in House of X #1 and listed fourteen omega-level mutants alongside their respective omega power.
On July 9, 2017, executive producer Hay replied on Twitter to a question about whether the fourth season would be the last season, saying that it "most likely" would be.
Evo: The Last Gasp of the Dinosaurs is a German-style board game for three to five players, designed by Philippe Keyaerts and published by Eurogames.
At the beginning, in between the animation, and at the end, there are black and white live-action sequences, displaying the fictional animator, orchestra, conductor and filmmaker, with many humorous scenes about the fictional production of the film.
Floyd follows a suggestion that he simply try to call Bowman on the radio, and later has a strange dream in which he sees a small monolith floating at the foot of his bed.
Sindelar poked fun at Perry's adventures in colonial America and the California Gold Rush and felt the Eloi appear and act too much like contemporary American young people.
It was also released in a 2-movie pack alongside its sequel The Croods: A New Age on DVD and Blu-Ray by Universal Pictures Home Entertainment in 2021.
Mathers suffers guilt for his role in developing a super-destructive atomic bomb, and hopes his new discovery will benefit the human race.
His friend William Jerome, another songwriter, remarked lightly: "It's lucky you didn't bring a bicycle built for two, otherwise you'd have to pay double duty." Dacre was so taken with the phrase "bicycle built for two" that he soon used it in a song.
Human Planet was originally screened in the UK on BBC One each Thursday at 8pm over eight weeks, starting from 13 January 2011.
During the establishment of the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning, Bamfs infest the school after Beast accidentally opens a portal to their home reality.
Evan shouts out that Tyler is using her, and that he is only dating her to steal her virginity and push her further away from God.
The first two levels of the video game act as an introduction and allow the player to familiarize themselves with the controls.
The player begins with a protist, and through eating and consuming, progresses through two other stages until it becomes an animal.
An alternative edit of the programme entitled The Link debuted on the History Channel on 25 May 2009 in a two-hour slot.
Life on Our Planet is an American television nature documentary miniseries released on Netflix and produced by Amblin Television and Silverback Films.
After the real Arabian Knight is freed from his imprisonment, Red Hulk and Machine Man continue their fight with Magus until Reginald Fortean arrives and ends the fight.
The comic makes many references to other comics and film - including Back to the Future, Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, Maus, and Watchmen - and parodies many tropes of science fiction and pulp story-telling.
In earlier turns, and in later turns in which the game does not end, the players bid for new mutations; their (successful) bids are subtracted from their score.
31-year-old Wendy Duffield from London compounded the controversy further when she told a newspaper said "the only thing that wasn't faked was the orgasm".
Blindsight contributes to this debate by implying that some aspects of consciousness are empirically detectable.
A major notable period in the X-Men's history began in 2012s All-New X-Men when Beast used time-travel to bring the original five 1960s X-Men into the present.
These bots can control up to four of the characters, allowing between one and four human players in any game mode.
Reception Like its predecessors After Man and The New Dinosaurs, Man After Man received generally positive reviews, though the science of the book was criticised in a greater extent than that featured in the preceding works.
Though they had not made the film with sequels in mind, its success led them to consider the prospect.
This focus is communicated through an exploration of views of dinosaurs and related animals that are unusual and sometimes even confusing to viewers, but which are well within the bounds of behaviour, anatomy and soft tissue that we see in living animals.
Additionally, Bonk uses his head to smash his enemies, propeller seeds allow Bonk to fly, and for the first time can carry flowers on his head in his continuing battle against his arch nemesis King Drool.
Complementing the Adventure Creator is the Planet Creator, which is accessed from within the Adventure Creator.
Production In May 2024, Silverback Films announced that the 'next iteration' of Life on Our Planet would be a four-part miniseries focused on the 'rise and fall of the dinosaurs' spanning 170 million years.
Trace fossils of multicellular organisms from an even earlier period, the Ediacaran biota, are also examined.
Featured organisms Epona Pagoda Tree: A thin-trunked, green, sessile photosynthetic animal that appears like a tree surrounded by large, disk-shaped "leaves" which are evolved limbs.
The way we did it in 2001?" Working with visual effects supervisor Dan Glass, Trumbull used a variety of materials for the creation of the universe sequence.
The game plays similarly to Angry Birds Epic, also developed by Chimera Entertainment, with the exception that a player is slinging birds toward the enemies to defeat them instead of using weapons.
The work depicts domestic and agricultural animals and plants, and how they may appear in the future, as a result of genetic engineering.
After 40,000,000 years of domination, the Qu leave the galaxy, leaving the altered humans to evolve on their own in the environments and worlds they were left with under the effects of natural selection.
On being compared to the musical works of Jerry Goldsmith and Danny Elfman, who scored the previous instalment, and its impact on the tonal and primitive quality, Doyle opined that the musical approach would be fresh.
It was described as "a fast-paced, science fiction action role-playing game in which the player battled across alien worlds to save the galaxy from the mutated forces of Darkspore".
It is the sequel to the 2011 film Rise of the Planet of the Apes, which began 20th Century Fox's reboot of the original Planet of the Apes series.
They land their shuttle on a temperate, lushly forested planet which they name Soror (Latin for sister).
Conventional reservoir Oil and gas are generated naturally at depths of around 4 or 5 km below Earth’s surface.
Backstop resources theory states that as a heavily used limited resource becomes expensive, alternative resources will become cheap by comparison, therefore making the alternatives economically viable options.
Crude oil production has since risen sharply from 2009 through 2014, so the rate of US oil production in October 2014 was 81% higher than the average rate in 2008.
For rough comparisons, one million Btu is approximately equal to a thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
If one considers the lower heating value instead of the higher heating value, the value for one BOE would be approximately 5.4 GJ (see tonne of oil equivalent).
Oil Embargo The Baghdad Resolutions were important because Egypt broadcast claims of US aircraft support on June 6.
The Emir has promoted the idea that Kuwait should focus its energies, in terms of economic development, on the financial industry.
Data from the DOE showed substantial price hikes across fuel types, while oil firms implemented adjustments and officials attributed the increases to global market pressures despite a slight slowdown in per-barrel price growth.
A number above 50 indicates that political developments may lead to higher oil exports, while a value below 50 indicates lower exports.
Moreover, it was predicted that the oil field would produce an estimated of 30 million barrels for 15–20 years.
German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said "this is not our war, we have not started it." Trump rebuked his NATO allies, calling their decision a "very foolish mistake" and said that the United States does "not need the help of anyone" in the war.
But 1892 was the last year that Pennsylvania wells provided a majority of the oil produced in the U.S., and in 1895, Ohio surpassed Pennsylvania as an oil producer.
Distilled shale oil and oil shale gas were collected through 300-millimetre (12 in) perforated pipes.
Though oil production can be slowed, it can not be stopped completely, and even the lowest possible production level resulted in greater supply than demand.
In 2011, the OPEC Fund's then Director-General Suleiman Jasir Al-Herbish was invited to join the UN Secretary-General's High-level Group on SEforAll, which was charged with developing the Action Agenda that was presented to the 2012 Rio+20 Summit.
Prior to the new dock's arrival, the existing dock had been in continuous use and was unable to accommodate the smaller boats despite available labour.
The lower gasoline prices are a result of PEI's not charging the Provincial Sales Tax of 10% unlike in Nova Scotia where the Harmonized Sales Tax of 14% is charged.
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
This includes the "Big Three", which refers to the top three companies in the oil industry: Petron, Shell, and Caltex.
Bases for the formulation of the theory Carrying capacity limit and demographic explosion The sustainable capacity of the Earth without oil, according to some estimates, is between 500 and 2,000 million people.
President Nicolás Maduro reorganized his economic cabinet in 2016 with the group mainly consisting of leftist Venezuelan academics.
In response, producers in the region formed the Oil Creek Association to restrict output and maintain a minimum price of $4 per barrel.
Africa Algeria Algeria is an oil and natural gas producer, and one of the European Union's largest suppliers of LNG.
Alternative transport, most notably the Cuban "camels", immense 18-wheeler tractor trailers retrofitted as passenger buses meant to carry hundreds of Cubans each, flourished.
The Economics Department and the Technical Affairs Department jointly form the Arab Center for Energy Studies, established in 1983.
Governments start biofuel planting programs, while nations with established biofuel industries, such as Brazil, are able to mitigate the effects of fuel shortages.
Member states As of 2022, the OPEC Fund has 12 member states: Ecuador reactivated its membership in June 2014 after a 22-year absence.
So the biggest field in the world is Ghawar, with 80 billion in it perhaps, you step outside from this trend to Safaniya with 35 perhaps, Hanifah about 12 and Shaybah 15, and you come on down.
US oil production The charts below gives an example of the application of the Hubbert Linearization technique in the case of the US Lower-48 oil production.
1980s-1990s Construction of the centralised field facilities at Champion-7 began in 1980 until 1983.
Hungary: On February 22, 2026, Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó signaled a more cautious approach toward halting electricity supplies to Ukraine, stepping back from earlier threats of a total cutoff.
Iran: 'regular' gasoline has an octane rating of 87 RON, which is the most prevalent type of gasoline available throughout the country.
Prelude The AIOC was the United Kingdom's "single largest overseas asset" and a "source of national pride" in the British post-war era of Clement Attlee and Ernest Bevin.
However the crisis was brought to a stop after the ship Nevaska Lady on 11 November 2017 with 40,000 metric tonnes of fuel which was reported as being sufficient for twenty days.
Without structural changes in global monetary policies, consumer behavior, and production models, overconsumption will likely continue accelerating alongside economic expansion.
These declarations eliminated certain size and weight restrictions on vehicles carrying gasoline, and the hours during which they are allowed to deliver.
The impacts of the conflict are similar to the 1970s energy crisis, including acute supply shortages, currency volatility, inflation, and heightened risks of stagflation and recession.
In August 2023, The New York Times and The Washington Post described Held as a "landmark" climate case.
In the grant system, the license will be granted to the company or joint venture that shows the highest interest and ability for the exploration of the license.
After Hurricane Katrina, the energy committees in both the Senate and the House hold hearings about the sudden rise in gasoline prices, the first time that they have gone over $3 per gallon.
Production decline curve analysis is important in determining the value in oil and gas wells in oil and gas economics.
Other notable speakers have included former United States Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin, United States Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman, former Colorado Senator Gary Hart; former United States Secretary of Commerce Donald L.
Third, a number of oil-producing countries lacked the capital and technical expertise to run the oil production, as well as needed access to North American and European markets.
Iraq plans to increase its oil productive capacity to 4 million barrels (640 thousand cubic metres) per day in 2000 and 6 million bbl (950 thousand m3) per day in 2010.
That same year, the Humble Oil Company (today Exxon Corporation) was formed by Ross Sterling and Walter William Fondren in Humble, Texas.
The operation was given on a context where China dominated crude oil importations, with approximately 400 million tons as of 2017 as stated by Sinopec, one of China's biggest oil companies.
He was finally captured in 1994 in Khartoum, Sudan, and is serving life sentences for at least 16 other murders.
Legal legislative principles and texts The company follows the legal responsibilities of EU law and is compliant with the relevant national and EU legislative texts for different resources including electricity, natural gas, and energy efficiency.
Refineries produce many products from crude oil, including gasoline, kerosene, diesel, heating oil, aviation fuel, bitumen and others.
The area developed after a road was constructed to link up with a pilot station that was to be built at Watsons Bay (Old South Head Road).
The concept is known colloquially as "rocket and feather pricing" or "rockets and feathers", an analogy which describes the price rising rapidly like a rocket, but falling slowly like a feather.
Montreal becomes the first Canadian city to hold a major downtown, weekday street closure for automobiles.
World Hydrocarbon Markets: Current Status, Projected Prospects, and Future Trends, (1983), By Miguel S.
Garin said fuel supply remained adequate, with about 50 days of inventory and ongoing deliveries, but stated that price controls were not permitted under existing law.
In July of the same year, the series appeared on a list of the all time top 50 anime, according to Wizard Magazine.
Mr Hughes said forensic accountants Worrells Solvency & Forensic Accountants had approached all creditors including himself seeking further funds.
Tierney made unabashed reference to that legendary wager as he gave his apologetic for embarking upon this redux of it: I didn't try to argue with [Simmons] about Saudi Arabia, because I know next to nothing about oil production there or anywhere else.
See also Energy crisis 1970s energy crisis 1973 energy crisis 1979 energy crisis 1980s oil glut == References ==
Due to development of the tense situation the general public started panic buying causing the reserves to deplete faster than expected.
The BOE is used by oil and gas companies in their financial statements as a way of combining oil and natural gas reserves and production into a single measure, although this energy equivalence does not take into account the lower financial value of energy in the form of gas.
It is updated quarterly and made freely available to the public via the index website and Twitter feed.
It is approximately 42 gigajoules or 11.630 megawatt-hours, although as different crude oils have different calorific values, the exact value is defined by convention; several slightly different definitions exist.
On the other hand, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown called for international action and said Britain had to be "selective" in supporting biofuels, and depending on the UK's assessment of biofuels' impact on world food prices, "we will also push for change in EU biofuels targets".
Canadian Crude Edmonton Par and Western Canadian Select (WCS) "are benchmarks [sic] crude oils for the Canadian market.
However, Australian unions criticized the deal, highlighting the UAE's poor human rights and labor record, including modern slavery under the kafala system.
petrodollar as a main currency in crude oil transactions, whose hegemony has led the market since the dollar standard was first established in 1971, replacing the gold standard and giving the United States the power to manage most of the world's currency supply (around ~60%).
Proven oil reserves are those quantities of petroleum which, by analysis of geological and engineering data, can be estimated with a high degree of confidence to be commercially recoverable from a given date forward from known reservoirs and under current economic conditions.
The King agreed to this 50/50 splitting of Aramco's oil profits instead of nationalizing Aramco's oil facilities on Saudi soil.
300 Army personnel were eventually trained to drive fuel tankers and were placed on standby to help maintain essential supplies.
Sources This article uses text from Internal Revenue Code, Section 613(b), and Publication 535 (2013), Business Expenses which are in the Public Domain as works of the US Federal Government == References ==
Numbered terms The engineering term P90 refers to 90 percent engineering probability, is a commonly accepted specific definition by Society of Petroleum Engineers, it does not take into account anything except technical concerns.
Additionally, as of 2006, there are more than 296,000 natural gas stripper wells in the lower 48 states.
Petron (Mandaluyong) Petro Gazz Phoenix (Davao City) Jetti (Pasay) Seaoil (Pasig) Flying V (TWA, Inc.; Quezon City) Unioil (Pasig) Clean Fuel (Pasig) Foreign List of gas station chains ran by companies which are headquartered outside the Philippines.
In 2011, it had so many problems that rations on electricity were put in place to help ease blackouts.
Drake strikes oil Drake began drilling for oil in Titusville near Oil Creek, but at first met with little success.
The plane first stopped in Algiers, where Carlos left the plane to meet with the Algerian Foreign minister Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
Energy Intelligence Group publishes a handbook which identified 195 major crude streams or blends in its 2011 edition.
Paddington Reservoir Gardens In 2006 architects Tonkin Zulaikha Greer and landscape architects JMD Design began work to conserve, restore and reuse the space of the then derelict Paddington Reservoir.
Oil wells are generally classified as stripper wells when they produce 15 barrels per day or less for any twelve-month period.
Commercially, light crude oil sells for a higher price of petroleum than does heavy crude oil, because the fractional distillation of light crude oil produces greater percentages of gasoline and diesel fuel per unit of petroleum.
Each afternoon, the prices for the next day are released to the public and the media, allowing consumers to make an informed decision whether to fill up today or tomorrow, safe in the knowledge that prices cannot change.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
From 1994 to 2006, approximately 177,000 marginal wells were plugged and abandoned, representing a number equal to 42 percent of all operating wells in 2006, costing the U.S.
The local plan identifies unbalanced development between the east and west sides of the Belait River and stresses the need to research the ecological impact on forest swamp areas and explore the potential of the Belait River as an internal port to support economic activities in the region.
In September 2025, Reuters reported that Russia was seeing certain fuel grade shortages, with the reduced refinery runs caused by the drone attacks and high borrowing costs leading to private filling stations being unable to stockpile fuel according to retailers and traders.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
Relinquished licenses can be re-attributed in next licensing rounds, or even kept as relinquished if the government believes there is little interest on that area for the petroleum exploration.
The OPEC Basket, including a mix of light and heavy crude oil products, is heavier than both Brent crude oil, and West Texas Intermediate crude oil.
The allowance encouraged people who were taxed at a high marginal rate to invest in, perhaps risky, oil ventures.
Many large economies, like the EU, US and China, were unable to support 2005 levels of growth, and China almost fell into its own financial crisis during its 2015 stock market bubble and crash.
Extraterrestrial argument The presence of methane on Saturn's moon Titan and in the atmospheres of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune is cited as evidence of the formation of hydrocarbons without biological intermediate forms, for example by Thomas Gold.
Imagawa intended The Day the Earth Stood Still to be the second to final chapter in the conflict between the Experts of Justice and Big Fire.
Tourism Algeria's tourism industry, which contributes only about 1 percent of GDP, lags behind that of its neighbors Morocco and Tunisia.
OPEC From 1980 to 1986, OPEC decreased oil production several times in an attempt to maintain oil's high prices.
Vicious circle With more than 50% of all consumers in Sofia refusing to pay their bills, Toplofikacia ran into debt with the Bulgarian energy provider Bulgargas.
The discovery of massive oil fields in Saudi Arabia threatened to scuttle the cartel, as control of the oil fields by two companies could undermine existing supply management schemes.
Montana's Supreme Court heard oral arguments on July 10, 2024, its seven justices taking the case under advisement.
Derived units For multiples of the tonne of oil equivalent, it is more usual to speak of millions of tonnes of oil equivalent and kilotonnes of oil equivalent (ktoe).
The France, Germany, and Italy agreement France, Germany and Italy have an oil-sharing agreement in place that allows them to buy oil from each other in the event of an emergency.
Also, the electrical power service contract for residential charging stations can be independent of household consumption under a commercial rate, which can save up to 40% on electricity compared to consolidating billing in the same meter.
For light oils and rich gas condensates the ultimate GOR of export streams is strongly influenced by the efficiency with which the processing plant strips liquids from the gas phase.
Yamaki had intended to use a star system and feature characters from Yokoyama's works with the same appearance but different personalities, but Imagawa wanted to keep the characters as they were.
The country is the fifth largest oil producing nation in Africa, which has helped drive its strong growth in the later 20th century.
The time to reach this break-even point is called energy payback period (EPP) or energy payback time (EPBT).
Fico specifically linked his opposition to the suspension of oil transit through the Druzhba pipeline, characterizing the situation as a deliberate provocation by Ukraine.
In Crimea, Russian occupation officials limited gasoline sales to 20 liters per customer and imposed price caps.
The other well-known classifications (also called references or benchmarks) are the OPEC Reference Basket, Dubai Crude, Oman Crude, Shanghai Crude, Urals oil and West Texas Intermediate (WTI).
On 26 March 2018, the Chinese government issued the first long term oil trading contracts denominated in petroyuans.
Delegates of friendly countries were moved toward the door, 'neutrals' were placed in the centre of the room and the 'enemies' were placed along the back wall, next to a stack of explosives.
From 1974 through 1981, the total current account surplus for all members of OPEC amounted to US$450 billion, without scaling-up for the subsequent decades of inflation.
Electric Vehicle and EVSE Incentives by State, September 2014 New Energy Tax Credits for Electric Vehicles purchased in 2009 Overview of Tax Incentives for Electrically Chargeable Vehicles in the E.U.
Exports from the region are typically going to Asian countries, with China, India, Japan and South Korea accounting for 75% of oil and 59% of LNG exports.
In June 2008, Daniel Yergin said that markets have helped fuel a "shortage psychology" that the world is "running out of oil".
A national oil company (NOC) is a petroleum company that is fully or partly owned by the government of a sovereign nation.
John Maynard Keynes's concept of reaching saturation John Maynard Keynes was the paradigm founder of modern macroeconomics, and is widely considered today to be the most influential economist of the 20th century.
Prices are revised on the 1st and 15th day of each month, or whenever the price raises or falls on the market sufficiently to interrupt the cycle by triggering an interrupting formula.
The oil depletion allowance has been subject of interest because one method (percentage depletion) of claiming the allowance makes it possible to write off more than the whole capital cost of the asset.
This was the first rise in petrol prices in 20 years and he also set in place a sharp devaluation of the currency which he said aimed to shore up the country's failing economy, hard hit by falling oil prices which make up 95% of foreign income.
Since the giant Cantarell Field in Mexico is now in decline, the state oil company Pemex has faced intense political opposition to opening up the country's oil and gas sector to foreign participation.
Announced in December 2017, it was claimed to be backed by the country's oil and mineral reserves, and it was intended to supplement Venezuela's plummeting bolívar fuerte currency, purportedly as a means of circumventing U.S.
The state-owned company Petroecuador plays a pivotal role in the oil sector, often operating in partnership with private and foreign corporations .
On 8 April, the Energy Policy Administration Committee announced on the Royal Gazette of Thailand that diesel prices would be cut at the refinery level by 2 THB per litre, aiming to reduce fuel costs and cost of living for Thai citizens.
Madhesi protesters have stepped up attacks against Nepali media outlets, with a Kathmandu Post media van torched on 28 December.
Generally, this short period initially brings economic benefits, in terms of increased GDP growth, but might later lead to a resource curse.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
On 23 March, in response to President Trump's comments on US–Iranian negotiations, Brent crude prices fell from US$114 to US$102 per barrel.
During their five-day presentation of their case, almost all of the plaintiffs themselves testified, as did eight plaintiffs' expert witnesses on topics including climate change, renewable energy, energy policy in Montana, and children's physical and mental health.
The OVA would be preceded by The Birth of Zangetsu the Midday, The Plan to Assassinate Daisaku - the Canary Penitentiary, The Boy of Three Days, The Greatest Battle in History - General Kanshin vs.
Economic growth The state of the economy can have a considerable effect on the demand for natural gas in the short term.
Singapore and Australia made an agreement to keep their energy trade flowing, and Singapore economic officials have said that the country's refineries are maintaining stable operations and drawing on diverse supplies of crude oil.
Although events such as these can temporarily disrupt oil supplies and elevate prices, the frequent disputes and instabilities tend to limit OPEC's long-term cohesion and effectiveness.
Stripper wells are more common in older oil and gas producing regions, most notably in Appalachia, Texas and Oklahoma.
Under the Bolivarian government, poverty decreased initially when Venezuela acquired oil funds, though poverty began to increase to its highest level in decades in the 2010s.
A 2020 study published in Scientific Reports, in which both population growth and deforestation were used as proxies for total resource consumption, warns that if consumption continues at the current rate for the next several decades, it can trigger a full or almost full extinction of humanity.
Oil and gas account for approximately 22.3% of Saudi GDP and 55% of government revenue, with substantial fluctuations depending on oil prices each year.
For the more polluting vehicles, the government intends to increase the maximum malus fee to €10,000 from €8,000 in 2016 for vehicles emitting more than 191 g/km, lowering the limit from 200 g/km in 2016.
On 13 March, Saudi Arabia reduced its oil production by 20%, from 10 million barrels per day to 8 million, after the shutdown of two of Saudi Aramco's offshore fields, including Safaniya.
In fact, gas dissolution and oil volume shrinkage will happen at many stages during the path of the hydrocarbon stream from reservoir through the wellbore and processing plant to export.
Single-player mode limits the players to the fictional Western Coalition, while online modes let players play as either the Western Coalition (WC) or Red Star Alliance (RSA).
Jum'ah, President, Director and CEO of Saudi Aramco states that the world has adequate reserves of conventional and nonconventional oil sources that will last for more than a century.
The series features characters and plotlines from the manga artist's entire canon of work, effectively creating an all-new story.
The legacy fund was established to ensure that the financial windfall gained from the Bakken Oil Boom would benefit the state in the long-run, even if oil prices collapse.
As peaking is approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically, and, without timely mitigation, the economic, social, and political costs will be unprecedented.
In such cases, the swing producer switches to the punitive mode and greatly increases its product output in order to reduce prices, causing losses for other producers and making them cooperate.
The modest level of tourism is attributable to a combination of poor hotel accommodations and the threat of terrorism.
Music The score of Giant Robo was composed, arranged and conducted by Masamichi Amano and performed by the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir.
By the 1970s, there were shortages of price-regulated interstate gas, while unregulated gas within the gas-producing states (intrastate gas) was plentiful, but more expensive.
Catastrophe The use of fossil fuels allows humans to participate in takedown, which is the consumption of energy at a greater rate than it is being replaced.
The term, analogous to others such as Big Tech, Big Steel, Big Tobacco, Big Soda, and Big Pharma which describe industries dominated by a few giant corporations, was popularized in print from the late 1960s.
However, after the discovery of highly aliphatic biopolymers in algae, and that oil generating kerogen essentially represents concentrates of such materials, no theoretical problem exists anymore.
Ruling and appeal Judge Seeley's August 14, 2023 judgment ruled in favor of the youth plaintiffs, declaring the 2023 version of the MEPA limitation (HB 971) and a similar 2023 law (SB 557) to be unconstitutional.
This 50/50 deal accorded the American oil companies a tax break equivalent to 50% of their profits on oil sales, with the other 50% to be diverted to King Ibn Saud via the US Treasury.
Crude oil became the world's most actively traded commodity, with the NYMEX Division light sweet crude oil futures contract becoming the world's most liquid form for crude oil trading, as well as the world's largest-volume futures contract trading on a physical commodity.
Reserves growth also commonly occurs in previously existing fields, as the characteristics of the reservoir become better understood, as fields are extended laterally, or new oil and gas reservoirs are found in existing fields.
As requested, a bus was provided the following morning at 6:40 and 42 hostages were boarded and taken to Vienna International Airport.
The Hardisty rail terminal can load up to two 120-railcar unit trains per day "with 30 railcar loading positions on a fixed loading rack, a unit train staging area and loop tracks capable of holding five unit trains simultaneously".
The global recession of 1973–1975 proved more effective than the United Nations in ending the global demand for Rhodesian products, which made the Rhodesian recession especially severe.
The USD black market exchange rate remains to fluctuate substantially due to the devaluation of the Lebanese pound caused by sharp USD shortages within Lebanon.
Whether the DME will be successful, and whether Omani futures prices will be adopted by producers and buyers as a benchmark, remain to be seen.
According to The New York Times and the BBC, the Lebanese people celebrated the arrival of the first fuel trucks.
Bardi's book looked at cases of rapid decline across societies (including the fall of empires, financial crises, and major famines), in nature (including avalanches), and through man-made systems (including cracks in metal objects).
Other private reserves of petroleum products for an additional 130,000,000 barrels (21,000,000 m3) The state-controlled reserves and the privately held stockpiles total about 470 million barrels by 2026 (583,000,000 barrels (92,700,000 m3) in 2002).
This interrupter would be initiated on the day of the price change or the next day when rack prices in Nova Scotia would change.
From 1983 to 1985, these contracts were for 500,000 barrels of Brent Blend crude, and were increased to 600,000 barrels after 1985.
After waiting for the militants to leave, Yamani and the other nine hostages followed and were taken to the airport by Algerian Foreign Minister Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
The WTI delivery price difference between months resulted in unusually high contango; purchasing cheap physical oil to storage for later sale.
The United States imported 28 percent of its oil in 1982 and 1983, down from 46.5 percent in 1977, due to lower consumption.
During that period, he headed Iran's delegations to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), served as deputy to Minister Jamshid Amouzegar and served multiple terms on OPEC's Board of Governors, in Vienna, Austria.
Since 2013, SOFAZ owns a 2.95% stake in state-owned Russian VTB Bank until now this investment has paid USD 57.3 million in dividends to SOFAZ.
The barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) is a unit of energy based on the approximate energy released by burning one barrel (42 US gallons, 35 imp gal or about 159 litres) of crude oil.
In January 1980, he issued the Carter Doctrine, declaring: "An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States".
Background The summit was announced during the first meeting of the High-Level Ad Hoc Group for the 3rd Gas Summit on 20 May 2015.
On 29 September, Forbes reported that the issues with fuel had worsened quickly and spread across much of the country, with rising prices, rationing, long queues and pumps running dry in some cases.
Crude oil storage space became a tradable commodity with CME Group— which owns NYMEX— offering oil-storage futures contracts in March 2015.
Bill 971 exempted the DEQ from "adhering to air quality and emissions standards when authorizing or changing permits".
Similarly, Venezuela's proven reserves jumped in the late 2000s when the heavy oil of the Orinoco Belt was judged economic.
Fuel Pricing Software is a business tool intended to allow retail fuel marketers to determine the most appropriate price at which to offer fuel based on their pricing strategies.
All six of these companies are vertically integrated within the industry and operate upstream, midstream, and downstream.
MON testing uses a similar test engine to that used in RON testing, but with a preheated fuel mixture, higher engine speed, and variable ignition timing to further stress the fuel's knock resistance.
While new tanks have been added in Cushing for a storage capacity of 6.6 million barrels, by March 2015 all the tanks were fully leased through 2015.
Economic importance In the United States in 2015, 11 percent of crude oil produced comes from a marginal oil well, and over 85 percent of the total number of U.S.
It also provides processing, storage, logistics and other services to commodity producers and consumers.
Operation Desert (German: Unternehmen Wüste) was a German synthetic fuel project during World War II.
Canada also significantly increased oil production during the 2000s oil crisis, mostly in Alberta in the form of the Athabasca oil sands, though a transportation and logistics crisis in Alberta has slowed continued growth in supplies.
The production of the catalyst requires a particular melting process in which used raw materials must be free of catalyst poisons and the promoter aggregates must be evenly distributed in the magnetite melt.
Economic growth during the 1980s was nil, and the period is often called a "lost decade" for Mexico.
Gas prices have risen $1.16 a gallon in the United States since the start of the war, with prices expected to hit $5.00 a gallon if the Strait of Hormuz is not opened by Mid-April.
The OPEC Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund) is an intergovernmental development finance institution established in 1976 by the member states of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.
One European diplomat voiced that a security clause in the EU's Ukraine trade agreement could permit the Ukrainian government to halt supplies to the EU as needed based on their own sanctions.
Various critiques challenge the theoretical foundations and assert that alternative perspectives, such as those of Cornucopians, proponents of resource-based economies, and environmentalist positions, do not support the claims made by the Olduvai Theory.
Firzli, writing in a Saudi Arabian journal World Pensions Forum, warned that the escalating oversupply could have durably negative economic consequences for all Gulf Cooperation Council member states.
China's slowing economy led to many other economies slowing or falling into recession, and the end of Quantitative Easing in the United States also contributed.
It represented Labour's attempt at combating the rampant inflation which took hold in the early-1970s following the "Barber boom" and the 1973 oil crisis, by utilizing their close links with the trade union movement.
According American Indian historian Nick Estes, the Dakota Access pipeline transports 800,000 barrels of tar sands oil across 1,200 miles of land each day and traverses through 357 tributaries of the Missouri River and the Ogallala aquifer.
Brazil France France had relied to a significant extent on imported petroleum for electricity production prior to the 1973 oil price shock.
China In March 2018, China opened a futures market denominated in Yuan which could encourage the use of its currency as a petrocurrency.
Players who ordered Frontlines: Fuel of War from GameStop or Best Buy were given a special code which gave access to one of two Challenge Maps.
In September 1985, Saudi Arabia became unhappy with de facto propping up prices by lowering its own production in the face of high output from elsewhere in OPEC.
Freeze on first generation biofuel production The prospects for the use of biofuels could change in a relatively dramatic way in 2014.
See also Climate, Community & Biodiversity Alliance Verified Carbon Standard References External links Gold Standard organization
The combined gasoline-electricity fuel economy rating of the 2016 model year Volt was 77 mpg‑US (3.1 L/100 km; 92 mpg‑imp) equivalent, 82 MPGe (2.9 Le/100 km) in city driving and 72 MPGe (3.3 Le/100 km) in highway.
In March 2017, Trump signed an executive order to officially nullify Obama's Clean Power Plan in an effort, it said, of reviving the coal industry.
As SREC supply catches up to SREC demand, pricing will likely decrease, resulting in an intended deceleration in solar installations.
Background In its first period (2008–2012), the 1997 Kyoto Protocol encompassed CO2 emissions from airports and domestic aviation but not from international aviation.
Exporters have to pay the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism from 1 January 2026 until the Turkish ETS starts.
The AETF was founded to assist all potential stakeholders understand and respond to emissions trading developments both domestically and internationally.
A JI project might involve, for example, replacing a coal-fired power plant with a more efficient combined heat and power plant.
Lessons from Milnthorpe Arboretum for native establishment There is a pleasant mix of native understory species in the at Milnthorpe, such as tree ferns, māhoe (whiteywood) and coprosma.
2015: Trudeau pledges to act if elected In February 2015, Justin Trudeau announced that he would impose carbon pricing if elected.
Element Markets, LLC is a limited liability company that provides environmental asset management and compliance services to institutional clients in North America.
The tax would also affect natural gas distributors, which would pay about CA$39 million annually, and electricity distributor Hydro-Québec, which would pay CA$4.5 million annually for its Sorel-Tracy, Quebec-based thermal energy plant.
TCM deputy director Ezra Silk called the agreement "historic in the sense that the Munich Agreement was historic - a catastrophic act of appeasement meant to maintain business-as-usual arrangements." He explained: "It's widely recognized that this agreement is not even close to what is needed...
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
Estimates indicate that an IMO GHG pricing mechanism may generate up to 40-60 billion US dollars every year up to 2050.
CO2-Plume Geothermal (CPG) is a proposed technology that combines carbon capture and storage (CCS/CCUS) with geothermal energy extraction, utilising carbon dioxide (CO2) itself as a geothermal energy extraction fluid.
It is equipped with an underbody CNG tank, making it the first passenger car in the world to adopt such CNG tank position.
The exchange traded in emissions of six gases: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons.
Structural adjustment policies were most effective in countries with an institutional framework that allowed these policies to be implemented easily.
Status The policy document outlining the Energiewende was published by the German government in September 2010, six months before the Fukushima nuclear accident.
These criteria are intended to ensure that the emission reduction is a permanent reduction from the emissions that would otherwise be allowed to offset the permanent increase in emissions from the new or expanding source.
However, providing information about specific revenue uses in countries that have implemented carbon taxes has been shown to have limited effectiveness in increasing public support.
The city of Melbourne is working with the wider Australian government to make Melbourne carbon neutral by the year 2050.
This accounts for feedback loops without jumping straight to tipping points ×1(T > T*) is an indicator function that activates when temperature exceeds tipping threshold T* (e.g.
Services and products Carbon Clear offers sustainability services including energy management, carbon footprint services, strategy and target setting and climate change risks and opportunities analysis.
Controversially, the question of whether to include agriculture in the scheme was omitted from the terms of reference of the review.
Alberta-based credits A facility can purchase credits from large emitters that have reduced their emissions intensity beyond their 12 per cent target.
Emissions trading is a key element of the Kyoto Protocol and subsequent proposals to manage global greenhouse gas emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Anaerobic digestion uses a chemical process to break down organic matter with the use of microorganisms in the absence of oxygen to produce biogas.
CERs can be purchased from the primary market (purchased from an original party that makes the reduction) or secondary market (resold from a marketplace).
Effect on companies Caps will be placed on carbon emissions and every company that use carbon-based fuel to produce some sort of product will have to buy carbon permits.
New orders, September 2015 In September 2015, Volkswagen's Belgian importer, D'Ieteren, announced that it would offer free engine upgrades to 800 customers who had ordered a vehicle with a diesel engine which was likely to have been fitted with illegal software.
Simplify and expand carbon market rules, including the Clean Development Mechanism, to encourage reforestation, afforestation and sustainable forest management.
This reflects the value of the co-benefits and the perceived value of association with these projects.
In arguments for excluding these emissions, it is assumed that oil produced by EOR displaces conventionally produced oil instead of adding to the global consumption of oil.
Events such as wildfires or disease, economic pressures, and changing political priorities can result in the sequestered carbon being released back into the atmosphere.
The Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) is a non-profit organisation that facilitates funding to UK-based research and development projects developing net-zero emission technologies.
The act amended the Title Conditions (Scotland) Act 2003, by inserting a new section creating an additional personal real burden, known as a "climate change burden", which conveyancers can use in their work.
However, considering the size of its economy and its high position on emission rankings, the country could not avoid international pressure for stronger commitment.
This includes advancing mutual recognition of carbon pricing systems, creating tools to help governments navigating border carbon adjustments and carbon pricing.
In November 2018, representatives of CO2balance presented the 2018 .eu Web Award for a Better World to the Stardust Smart Cities project in Brussels.
The IPCC said that if governments were supportive, and the full range of renewable technologies were deployed, renewable energy could account for almost 80% of the world's energy supply within four decades.
See also Emissions trading Flexible mechanisms Assigned amount units Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit == References ==
Based on the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism, CEB VER establishes criteria for validating, measuring, and monitoring carbon offset projects with the option to trade carbon credits and use them for surrendering for individuals, organizations or companies that want to be carbon neutral.
They believe that such a level carries the risk of triggering a cascade of unpredictable climate feedback effects.
Provide assistance for developing nations to build capacity to fully participate in the carbon markets, and to evaluate the ecosystem services their forests provide.
Unlike the original Eclipse, however, the Eclipse Cross is not assembled in the United States as Mitsubishi closed its Diamond-Star Motors plant in Normal, Illinois in February 2016.
Livestock is known to significantly contribute to global warming, and to negatively impact global nitrogen cycles and biodiversity.
The formula C = ((Va × Ea) + (Vo × Eo)) / L How it works Corporations have multiple ways to balance their carbon liability.
In September 2019 at the UN Climate Summit, it was announced that 5 new countries were joining the coalition: Austria, Chile, Italy, Japan and Timor-Leste.
See also Carbon emissions trading Politics of global warming Economics of global warming Mitigation of global warming Greenhouse Mafia References == Further reading and external links ==
As of December 2, 2023, 95 cities and subnational governments have either formally endorsed the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty or signed the Mayors Declaration.
That therefore provides businesses and consumers with incentives to use and invest in low-emissions technologies.
These mechanisms include emissions trading, Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), and Joint Implementation (JI).
Carbon markets compensate for companies' greenhouse gas emissions and purchasing these carbon credits can remove or reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
Interim results for the period from June to mid-July showed that 35% of participants used buses and trains more, while 3% used their cars less.
The Accord goes on to note in section 8 that the collective commitment by developed countries for new and additional resources, including forestry and investments through international institutions, will approach US$30 billion for the period 2010-2012.
At COP 17 (2011), decision 12/CP.17 provided additional guidance on safeguard information and reference level modalities.
The first pre-compliance RGGI auction took place in September 2008, and the program became effective on January 1, 2009.
In practical terms, the report treated standardised products and contracts as tools to make credits easier to compare and trade across different market venues and counterparties.
The reaction rate can in principle be accelerated with a catalyst or by increasing pressures, or by mineral pre-treatment, although this method can require additional energy.
Ofgem has been appointed the scheme administrator on behalf of the Department for Energy Security & Net Zero.
In a 2013 study of 78 voluntary market-based projects, located in 23 countries in Africa, of the project developers 59% were private international businesses, 28% were international non-profit organizations, 9% were private local businesses, and 4% were local non-profit organizations.
The UK's Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research has been researching this scheme since 2003, and more recently the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce (RSA) through its CarbonLimited project.
Operations CO2balance operates as both a primary project developer and a consultant for a range of carbon management services for both private and public sector organisations.
It highlights the diversity and flexibility of emissions trading across different jurisdictions with varying geographical scope, economic profiles, and energy mixes.
The funding for the refund comes from the utility providers who pay a carbon tax for polluting the air, and the refund is the dividend portion of the carbon fee and dividend program created by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006.
The design firm aimed to produce a deluxe sedan which did without the numerous exterior features and detailing found on existing Japanese premium sedans, in favor of a more simplified, European-style appearance.
As such, approximately 85% of the United States' emissions would have been covered for the year 2000.
The Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) was a voluntary, legally binding greenhouse gas reduction and trading system for emission sources and offset projects in North America and Brazil.
The premise is that experienced companies would bring their technology to Brazil, in an effort to reduce methane gas emissions.
The following cities have plans to introduce LEZs: Aberdeen (2020), Bath (2021), Birmingham (2019), Derby, Dundee (2020), Edinburgh (2020), Manchester (2022), Newcastle (2021), and Sheffield (2021).
It is a term with growing importance as legislation globally moves to internalize the impact of CO2 emission through cost mechanisms.
Funding for the London Accord has come from the City of London Corporation, Z/Yen Group and Gresham College.
Implementation In June 2024 Denmark, a major pork and dairy exporter, announced that it will introduce a tax on livestock carbon dioxide emissions from 2030, making it the first country to do so and hoping to inspire other countries to follow.
The term commonly encompasses two broad categories: large-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation modification (SRM).
In the Uniform Price scenario with a price of 50 dollars per ton of CO2, for 5 countries the revenue can represent more than 1% of the overall governmental revenue.
Emissions trading basically refers to the trading of emissions allowances (carbon credits) between one regulated entity and a less pollutive entity.
The Liquidity Network, an initiative of the Foundation for the Economics of Sustainability is proposing to introduce a community run emissions reduction currency in the County of Kilkenny in Ireland.
In 2009, a number of governments agreed to work on allowing the Kyoto Protocol to reduce and allocate international aviation emissions through the International Civil Aviation Organization.
The species' diploid stage was initially described as Falkenbergia hillebrandii (Bornet) Falkenberg 1901 because it was thought to be a separate species.
At a nearby location, production wells would then extract the geothermally heated supercritical CO2 back to the surface, where it would be expanded in a turbine to generate electricity.
Cost implications for new coal-fired power plants Newly built coal-fired power plants can be made to immediately use gasification of the coal prior to combustion.
Pea soup fog (also known as a pea souper, black fog or killer fog) is a very thick and often greenish-yellow fog caused by air pollution that contains tarry soot particulates and the poisonous gas sulphur dioxide.
These credits are largely traded in form of Certified Emission Reduction (CER), or Emission Reduction Unit (ERU).
The ratification by Russia on 18 November 2004 satisfied the "55%" clause and brought the treaty into force, effective 16 February 2005, after the required lapse of 90 days.
Cummins was found to have installed devices designed to bypass or disable emissions controls on 960,000 Dodge and Stellantis RAM pickup truck diesel engines between 2013 and 2023.
Nuclear power Nuclear power has been used since the 1950s as a low-carbon source of baseload electricity.
As the carbon market developed, the company started to explore the possibility of implementing carbon projects in Africa, as a means to channel revenue from carbon finance into the sustainable development of some of the world's poorest communities.
United States The United States Department of Energy (DOE), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Center for Resource Solutions (CRS) recognizes the voluntary purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources (also called renewable electricity or green electricity) as green power.
See also Air pollution Chlorofluorocarbons Recycling References External links Government of Canada - One-Tonne Challenge Archived 2004-04-03 at the Wayback Machine Yukon News - Conservatives Nix One Tonne Challenge
2005 Climate Stewardship and Innovation Act Under a slightly modified title, but with similar provisions, the Act (S.
There should be a presumption in favour of timber and stone." Occupational carbon emissions Occupational carbon emissions relate to the amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere from the direct use of energy to run the building e.g.
For comparison, the IPCC states that emissions must fall by 45% by 2030 in order to reach the limit set as a goal during the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in 2018 (known as the Paris Agreement).
See also Environmental issues in Malaysia Renewable energy in Malaysia Economy of Malaysia Circular economy == References ==
The programme now operates in the United Kingdom, Australia, Chile, United Arab Emirates as well as New Zealand.
Energy efficient technology New development of LED light bulbs that utilize blue and white light has improved efficiency by over 25% since 2008.
In late October 2012, New Zealand carbon prices dropped to about NZ$1 a tonne for some types of credits.
History Anirudh Sharma, the founder of Graviky Labs, first conceived the idea of AIR-INK during an experiment at MIT, while designing a printer that could print with carbon nanoparticles.
Successful individual reductions are rewarded through lower utility costs and the value of the created personal carbon credits.
Recognising and interacting with these governance systems is considered necessary to fulfill this dimension of justice.
A complete list of measures and details can be found in the official plan (2006-2012): Quebec and Climate Change -- A Challenge for the Future.
As residential consumers move to electricity, gas grid operation and maintenance may become harder to fund.
The aim of Course 50 is to suppress CO2 emissions from blast furnaces and to capture CO2 from blast furnaces.
The functional requirements of the Registry are determined by the European Commission (through the Registry Regulations) and the UNFCCC secretariat (through various COP / MOP decisions).
Related emissions reduction proposals and initiatives Carbon Rationing Action Groups – groups in the UK and US that voluntarily cap their greenhouse gas emissions "Icecaps" – devised by George Monbiot in his book Heat: How to Stop the Planet Burning.
In 2013, the Fluid Interfaces research group, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology demonstrated the process of converting carbon residue into ink for use in an inkjet cartridge.
The pipeline connecting St Fergus to the Goldeneye field is a carbon-steel tube which is 510 millimetres (20 in) in diameter.
CDP's 2022 questionnaire on transition plans includes specific requirements for describing Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
Militaries are using and developing electric vehicles, particularly for their stealthiness, but not tanks.
As of 2018, "Embodied carbon is responsible 11% of global GHG emissions and 28% of global building sector emissions ...
Participants At the launch of The Climate Registry, the following were the participants: US States: Canadian provinces: As of September 24, 2009 all Canadian Provinces and Territories are participating in the greenhouse gas registry.
Independent analysis Independent scholarship discussing REDD+ institutions has described the FCPF (alongside the UN-REDD Programme) as one of the major multilateral platforms created to operationalise REDD+ through readiness support and pilot results-based payment arrangements.
The Forests Now Declaration was a 2007 declaration that advocates using carbon credits to protect tropical forests.
Solar Japan with Cool Earth has been expanding their solar power industry offering subsidies to improving solar powered infrastructure.
Under Joint Implementation, a developed country with relatively high domestic costs of emission reduction would set up a project in another developed country.
Invited countries and their representatives Results At the summit Biden announced that greenhouse gas emissions by the United States would be reduced by 50% - 52% relative to the level of 2005 by 2030.
Employment The renewable energy transition can create jobs through the construction of new power plants and the manufacturing of the equipment that they need, as was seen in the case of Germany and the wind power industry.
Sustainable energy production Renewable energy describes naturally occurring, theoretically inexhaustible sources of energy.
In 2024, a Channel 4 documentary highlighted these concerns alongside claims from Human Rights Watch that it was investigating a Verra carbon reduction project where Indigenous Cambodians lived in fear of homes and farmland being destroyed by armed rangers.
The Registry was the official database for Carbon Financial Instruments owned by Registry Account Holders.
the International Union of Local Authorities provided technical assistance to the municipalities engaged in this planning.
54–55 To increase soil carbon stores, climate-friendly gardeners ensure that their gardens create optimal conditions for various vigorous healthy growth of plants, and other garden organisms above and below the ground, and reduce the impact of any limiting factors.
This type of kiln is also being studied as a potential method to decarbonise shipping through both looping and single use processes.
The first generation Lexus GS began sales in the United States, Europe and selected Asian markets in 1993.
The German term Verkehrswende ("traffic transition" analogous to Energiewende, energetic transition) calls for a shift from combustion powered road transport to bicycles, walking and rail transport and the replacement of remaining road vehicles with electric traction.
While defeat devices were used worldwide, much less remedial action has been taken in other countries.
History South Pole was founded in 2006 by graduates of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) including Patrick Bürgi, Thomas Camerata, Renat Heuberger, Ingo Puhl, and Christoph Sutter, and joined by Christoph Grobbel, Marco Hirsbrunner, and Christian Dannecker as equal partners.
Then-Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, expressed at ICAP's founding ceremony: "This first-of-its-kind partnership will provide more incentives for clean-tech investment and economic growth while not letting polluters off the hook.
This, the report explained, could be solved by optimizing usage of these sources by switching from coal to gas, by preventing methane leakages, and by stopping routine flaring.
According to the report, it is possible to simultaneously ensure economic development and access affordable, sustainable energy for all, while reducing carbon emissions by half the current output.
2007–2011 The GS 460 (URS191) replaced the GS 430 in 2007 for the 2008 model year, featuring a new 4.6-liter 1UR-FE (Middle East) or a 1UR-FSE V8 engine with eight-speed automatic transmission generating 255 kW (342 hp) and 460 N⋅m (339 ft⋅lb) of torque.
Users can select any date between 2000 and 2050, beyond which population growth would no longer generate additional entitlements.
For powertrains, all variants are powered by the K15C 1.5-litre petrol MHEV paired with either a 5-speed manual (standard on GL) or 6-speed automatic (standard on GLX, optional on GL).
Cities that are fully car-free prohibit all use of private cars in the city limits, while cities that are partly car-free have car-free zones but allow some private car use in other areas.
In June 2007, the company raised an additional €150 million to expand into new markets, with Credit Suisse becoming a major investor.
In 2000, the fuel protests in the United Kingdom virtually crippled UK transport and left transport agencies only a day away from bringing the diesel railway to a standstill.
Beginning in 2019, all ICAO member states "with aeroplane operators conducting international flights are required to monitor, report and verify carbon dioxide emissions from these flights every year".
The European Commission support the coalition, for strenghten climate action and improve its international relations.
The seven, Caterpillar, Cummins, Detroit Diesel, Mack Trucks, Navistar International, Renault Trucks, and Volvo Trucks, also agreed to spend more than $1 billion to correct the problem.
The Chennai office handles several value-added operations of the bank that were earlier handled only in its Washington, D.C., office.
ecosecurities is a company specialized in carbon markets and greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation projects worldwide.
These zones are: Beijing, Chongqing, Guangdong, Hubei, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Tianjin, which represent 25% of China's total GDP.
Ultimately, all electricity consumers, not only those who make upgrades, benefit from energy efficiency programs.
C.: whitehouse.gov, retrieved June 25, 2013 Link: President Obama is taking action on climate change External links President Obama's Climate Action Plan.
However, on March 14, 2025, Trudeau's successor as prime minister, Mark Carney, removed the consumer carbon tax implemented via the Act through a prime ministerial directive that was affirmed by an order-in-council signed by the Governor General.
The remaining 10 per cent will go to support particularly affected sectors, including small businesses, schools, and hospitals.
Effect on households The cost of everything made using carbon-based fuels will increase and will be felt by everyone.
Advertising Mitsubishi sponsored the special on ABC about the solar eclipse of August 21, 2017, including photographing the Eclipse Cross along with the eclipse.
French authorities opened an inquiry in March 2016 into Volkswagen over the rigging of emission tests, with prosecutors investigating suspicions of "aggravated deception".
Several countries have closed all of their coal plants including: Belgium closed its last coal plant in 2016.
Experimental results from the same study suggest that this support is robust, as respondents were more likely to favor political programs that included the Global Climate Scheme over those that did not.
The vehicles affected by the recall in the US include the following model years: The EPA revealed on 2 November 2015 that Volkswagen had shipped additional diesel models with defeat devices, including the 2014 VW Touareg and the 2015 Porsche Cayenne.
The tax rate for gasoline in Canadian currency was 0.8 cents per litre, or about $3.50 per tonne of CO2 equivalent.
Otherwise Article 6.2 gives countries a lot of flexibility in how they can create trading agreements.
If allowances are removed through carbon retirement, this increases the scarcity and cost of allowances, contributing to the overall reduction of carbon emissions.
That's why the approach that Copenhagen is using to specify goals for emission reductions and then to allow offsets to accomplish much of that reduction is really a fake.
Greenpeace Aotearoa described the 2008 NZ ETS as "weakened and watered down" and too generous to agriculture and other big polluters.
Hydrogen Hydrogen gas is widely discussed as a fuel with potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
By the end of October 2007 CPI (LG Chem) delivered their finished battery pack prototypes, and A123 delivered theirs by January 2008.
(holding a 53% stake), Tianjin Property Rights Exchange (北方产权交易市场) (holding a 22% stake), and Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) (holding a 25% stake), was unveiled in the Tianjin Binhai New Area.
With 31.66 / 32 points in Adult Occupant Protection (AOP) and 43.00 / 49 points in Child Occupant Protection (COP).
The pilot phase allowed experimentation with sector-specific approaches suited to different regional economic contexts.
Since 1994, researchers, students, and field assistants have studied the environment of Dogu’a Tembien.
In March 2022 National Grid announced a project to introduce green hydrogen into the grid with a 200 m wind turbine powering an electrolyser to produce gas for about 300 homes.
Data Ember’s open data covers annual electricity generation data for over 200 countries and regions, and monthly electricity generation data for 85 countries and regions.
The International Carbon Action Partnership intends to work closely with it, and Brazil's membership should facilitate it.
In March 2021, in the April issue of Modern Railways magazine also reported that work was underway to extend OHL electrification to Market Harborough, but that the SPL Powerlines contractor was working in conjunction with Network Rail to extend wires beyond this to Sheffield and Nottingham.
The money will be put into the Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund, which will be directed to strategic projects or transformative technology aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the province.
In this way countries can lower the costs of complying with their Kyoto targets by investing in projects where reducing emissions may be cheaper and applying the resulting Emission Reduction Units (ERUs) towards their commitment goal.
Forestry company Ernslaw One converted 520,000 NZ units into Assigned amount units and sold them to the Norwegian Government, in a deal brokered by New Zealand carbon broker, Carbon Market Solutions Ltd.
The carboNZero programme and CEMARS programme are the world's first internationally accredited greenhouse gas (GHG) certification schemes under ISO 14065.
The tax was never passed; in February 2021 the government instead set up an emission trading scheme (ETS) where emitters can buy and sell emission credits.
It noted that failure to meet the 1.5 °C target would risk "pushing the world towards catastrophic global warming." It also added that the Paris Agreement makes no mention of oil, gas or coal.
The rationale behind a meta registry is to maintain transparency and prevent double counting and double issuance.
In July 2008, the Gold Standard Version 2.0 was released, including sets of guidelines and manuals on the GS requirements, toolkits, and other supporting documents to be used by project developers and DOEs.
The registration of the domain name "ecocho.co.uk" expired on March 10, 2009, and it was activated again for a short period of time with few variations in graphics from June 2009, until it was finally closed between 2011 and 2012.
Today, Development Business is the primary publication for all major multilateral development banks, U.N.
Awards In July 2025, the company was one of the winners of the WIPO Global Awards in the category of environment for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
However, biological stores (such as forests and kelp beds) may be temporary carbon sinks, as long-term sequestration cannot be guaranteed.
When the Climate Change Response (Moderated Emissions Trading) Act was adopted, Wright said in a radio interview "It's virtually certain our emissions will grow and the burden on the taxpayer will be uncurbed".
Diesel trains also generate soot and particulates from the engines, often clearly visible in the air.
Mechanical The Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross is currently offered as a petrol, diesel, and PHEV plug-in hybrid depending on the region.
Carbon removal projects such as forestry and carbon capture and storage are expected to have a larger share of this market in the future, compared to renewable energy projects.
Programmes There are two certification offerings for carbon footprinting: CEMARS (Certified Emissions Management And Reduction Scheme) certification is for organisations, products or services to make a measurement and reduction claim.
These supported nationally appropriate mitigation actions will be subject to international measurement, reporting and verification in accordance with guidelines adopted by the Conference of the Parties.
The CCPs include a principle on sustainable development benefits and safeguards, and ICVCM governance materials describe an Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities Committee as part of its committee structure.
The Campaign to Electrify Britain's Railway (CEBR) is an internet-based campaign group formed in 2018, whose aim is to convince the government to completely electrify the British Railway network.
The purpose of the Partnership is to address the issues of energy security, air pollution, and climate change (IEA, 2007, p.
The company headquarters is in London, UK, and the company now operates offices in the United States, Spain, France and Turkey.
Prices Prices depend on many factors, such as the vintage year the RECs were generated, location of the facility, whether there is a tight supply/demand situation, whether the REC is used for RPS compliance, even the type of power created.
Previously, plans were in place to convert the power plant to biomass firing, primarily from waste materials.
Some banks, including banks in the Czech Republic and Sweden, do not support euro-denominated debits by default.
The Program on Energy Efficiency in Artisanal Brick Kilns in Latin America to Mitigate Climate Change (EELA) is a program of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) which is implemented by Swiss contact in conjunction with its partners in nine countries in Latin America.
Mootral is a British-Swiss company that is developing a food supplement to reduce methane emissions from ruminant animals, chiefly cows and sheep, but also goats.
They are designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by essentially increasing the price of fossil fuels.
These schemes state that cap-and-trade or cap-and-tax schemes inherently impact the poor and those in rural areas, who have less choice in energy consumption options.
In recent times and in an attempt to highlight the drawbacks of carbon offsetting schemes, the term "emission reduction" or "certified emission reduction" is used to design common carbon offsets that may be certified by organizations such as Gold Standard or Verra.
The investigation even found that the standard may in fact worsen climate change: "Investigation into Verra carbon standard finds most are ‘phantom credits’ and may worsen global heating".
A meat tax is a tax levied on meat and/or other animal products to help cover the health and environmental costs that result from using animals for food.
According to these documents, during Saddam Hussein's administration in Iraq the Saudis supported the Iraqi nuclear program with $5 billion, on the condition that workable nuclear technology and possibly even nuclear weapons would be transferred to Saudi Arabia.
Another 2017 study found that the presence of oil reduced the likelihood that a democracy would be established after the breakdown of an authoritarian regime.
All subprograms issue competitive awards to universities, national laboratories, nonprofit organizations, solar companies, and state and local governments to fund research and development projects that will aid in lowering the cost of electricity generated from solar technology.
History The international platform for ventilative cooling- venticool was inaugurated in October 2012 during the 33rd AIVC Conference in Copenhagen.
It is responsible for developing and implementing policies concerning petroleum and related products.
The Joint Organisations Data Initiative (JODI) is an international collaboration to improve the availability and reliability of data on petroleum and natural gas.
It was given a statutory basis by the Ministers and Secretaries Act 1924, soon after the establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922.
The Digital Cleanup Day is an annual event to raise global awareness about the environmental impact of the digital industry.
An open-ended time limit is applied, which allows claimants three years to file a claim starting from the time they discover damage.
Additionally, the government aims to commission five indigenous SMRs by 2033, as specified by the Nuclear Energy Mission announced in 2025.
Evolution of label content The original 1959 label showed only the MSRP, equipment, and destination charge.
In 1977, when it was built at 211 Rink Avenue in the Walsh Acres neighborhood of Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada, the house was the world's most airtight house.
Australia MEPS programs are made mandatory in Australia by state government legislation and regulations which give force to the relevant Australian Standards.
It was developed in 2005 by REEEP and REN21, with funding from several European government agencies.
Current practices Since roughly the 1990s, energy service companies typically advise hotels regarding inefficient usage of energy and optimizing its usage.
With the growing gas market and the shrinking export economy, the Netherlands began to experience a recession.
(Vartan 2005) Nuclear sharing with Arab States of the Persian Gulf nuclear programs The Arab States of the Persian Gulf plan to start their own joint civilian nuclear program.
Tigergen III uses Horizon hydrogen fuels cell to convert energy from hydrogen gas into electricity which is then used to power the vehicle's electric motor.
There may be a possibility that ETDEWEB will again become accessible at some unspecified time in the future via the US DOE’s Office of Scientific and Technical Information (OSTI) systems.
The Ministry of Climate Policy and Green Growth (Dutch: Ministerie van Klimaat en Groene Groei; abbreviated KGG) was a Dutch ministry, which existed between 2024 and 2026.
This is differentiated from coasting, which means running the vehicle in idle mode by disengaging the engine from the wheels, either by disengaging the clutch or setting the transmission or gearbox to neutral position.
Energy preparedness: enhancing societal readiness and supporting regional and municipal planning for future electricity demand.
The Centre for Research on Energy Security (CeRES) is an Indian research center housed at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) focusing on Indian relations to energy and consequences on itself and the world, diplomatically, economically and socially.
Both oil ministers were angered by the price cuts, and the two led their fellow delegates to establish the Maadi Pact or Gentlemen's Agreement, calling for an "Oil Consultation Commission" of exporting countries, to which MOCs should present price-change plans.
In 2012, it was reestablished as Energy department was split from the Ministry of Infrastructure, and Environment department of reorganized former Ministry for Environmental Protection was split.
These ongoing studies help the company to manage their reservoirs, by "forecasting meltwater runoff," especially during the Spring melting season.
Availability of data Many countries publish statistics on the energy supply and consumption of either their own country, of other countries of interest, or of all countries combined in one chart.
Only low energy tasks are performed when on battery power, while higher energy tasks are performed with AC power.
So-called "duct tapes" are often not suited for sealing ducts, which explains why, in the US, the International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) requires any tape used on duct board or flexible ducts to be labeled in accordance with UL 181A or 181B.
The model helps energy producers identify optimal operating strategies and make informed short-term financial decisions that minimize system-wide costs.
Work is underway at the BARC, for the BSMR, along with a 55MWe SMR, and also a 5MWth high temperature gas cooled reactor for green hydrogen production through thermochemical sulfur-iodine cycle.
The Philippines was able to save 611 MWh of electricity during the time period, which is said to be equivalent to shutting down a dozen coal-fired power plants for an hour.
Both Fred Singer and Frederick Seitz are prominent figures in climate change denial who previously worked for the tobacco industry.
The extension of the scheme from 2027 to 2037 was declared on 1 April 2010 and is detailed in the National Renewable Energy Action Plan.
The field of building engineering physics combines the existing professions of building services engineering, applied physics and building construction engineering into a single field designed to investigate the energy efficiency of old and new buildings.
He first proposed the Energy hierarchy, and initiated the consumer assurance REAL Code (since renamed Renewable Energy Consumer Code) for microgeneration.
Norway Although Norway relies heavily on natural gas and oil for export income, the country consumes almost none of the petroleum resources that they produce.
More Kenyans are turning to solar power every year rather than making connections to the country's electric grid.
Day-ahead dispatching optimization is used to aid in the planning of systems with a significant portion of intermittent energy production in which uncertainty around future energy predictions is accounted for using stochastic optimization.
The majority of this population uses kerosene lamps and solar power costs half as much as lighting with kerosene.
He was a founding director of the Renewable Energy Association and its Director General from 2002 to 2009.
Implementation of the Joint Supplier Registration System (JSRS) to validate & certify all Suppliers to the 23 Omani Oil & Gas Operators in the country.
Thus, every year, it seeks to accomplish new projects in the field of renewable energy in conjunction with various international companies and investors.
Some regulations differ between commercial vehicles not to disengage the clutch for a downgrade, and passenger vehicles to set the transmission to neutral.
In addition to overall building standards the code defines the Climate Zones used in building, shown in this picture.
The Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage is a 1963 treaty that governs issues of liability in cases of nuclear accident.
The International Building Performance Simulation Association (IBPSA), is a non-profit international society of building performance simulation researchers, developers and practitioners, dedicated to improving the built environment.
There were further proposals to include a GND, both in the US and internationally, in the recovery program for the COVID-19 pandemic.
Udayanga Hemapala resigned on 17 April following controversy regarding coal procurement tenders, and the ministry has been placed under interim presidential oversight pending new appointments.
Loan limits With the GLGP, 100% of a loan could have a federal guarantee with a limit of the loan being 75% of project costs.
See also List of petroleum ministries Politics of Timor-Leste References External links Media related to Ministry of Petroleum and Minerals (East Timor) at Wikimedia Commons Ministry of Petroleum and Minerals – official site (in English)
Workmen should never use open flame near thatch, and nothing should be burnt that could fly up the chimney and ignite the surface of the thatch.
The two hydropower plants of Yerevan, the Gyumri HPP, Dzora HPP and other technical services were part of ArmEnergo.
The Ministry of Energy and Power Development is a government ministry, responsible for energy and electricity in Zimbabwe.
List of ministers Political Party: SPS DOS DS DSS SNS References External links Serbian Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection Serbia Energy Mining Market News Serbian ministries, etc – Rulers.org
The proposals ranged from providing backup assurances of supply to establishing an IAEA-controlled low-enriched uranium reserve or setting up international enrichment centers.
The Table that follows provides the correspondence (equivalence) between airtightness classes A to D and the new names ATC 7 to ATC 1.
Ibrahim Uwizeye, Jiji and Mulembwe Hydropower Project (PHJIMU), Hydro-Electric Plant Mpanda, Hydro-Electric Plant Kabu 16, Hydro-Electric Plant Rusumo falls, Kagu Project, Ruzizi III, Ruvyironza, Hydro-Electric Plant in Kirasa-Karonge, Peat Power Project.
Some methods of reducing emissions of the industry include lowering speeds of shipping (which can be potentially problematic for perishable goods) as well as changes to fuel standards.
Although the concept of rebound effect was developed from the original paradox theory by Jevons, the contemporary economics have traversed, to expand the scope of what is meant by rebound effects and to provide Jevons Paradox a more concise definition.
It is assumed to save up to 7% fuel in the NEDC driving cycle; in real road traffic conditions, the savings is estimated to be up to 10%.
The key enabling technologies can be categorized in machine components, machine design methods & tools, and machine control.
One of the plaintiffs' lawyers, Matteo Ceruti, also clarified that the suspension of the lawsuit was required by the Code of Civil Procedure in order to file an appeal for a regulation of jurisdiction before the Italian Supreme Court.
After being concluded, the agreement faced near total opposition from the petroleum industry, prompting U.S.
SHC 2017 in Abu Dhabi, UAE and SHC 2019 in Santiago, Chile were jointly organized with ISES' Solar World Congress.
The Member States must adopt and publish, initially every five years, a report setting the indicative Member State targets for future RES-E consumption for the following ten years and showing what measures have or are to be taken to meet those targets.
Between June 2012 and October 2015, the Myanmar Kyat depreciated by approximately 35%, from 850 down to 1300 against the US Dollar.
Such use of the economic weapon of oil embargo in the struggle against Israel had been regularly proposed at Arab Petroleum Congresses, but it took the Six-Day War for the embargo to happen.
As well as increase the availability of viable policies that can be used in order to facilitate the development of a broader national or state policy.
Partially due to CBAM the Open Coalition on Compliance Carbon Markets was created during the 2025 United Nations Climate Change Conference with the aim of creating a global carbon market.
See also Climate justice Just transition Fossil fuel divestment Climate change in Italy List of environmental lawsuits References External links Case summary at climatecasechart.com Original Writ of Summons (in Italian) Original Writ of Summons (in English) Full documentation on Greenpeace Italy
The Gas Exporting Countries Forum (GECF) joined as an eighth partner in 2014, enabling JODI also to cover nearly 90% of the global market for natural gas.
The Consortium Agreement of 1954 (Persian: قرارداد کنسرسیوم) provided Western oil companies with 50% ownership of Iranian oil production after its ratification in 1954 expiring in 1979.
(p.xiii) Reviews Winning the Oil Endgame has received many positive reviews and the Wall Street Journal called the book "Perhaps the most rigorous and surely the most dramatic analysis of what it will take to wean us from foreign oil ...
Zimbabweans in South Africa demonstrated to encourage South Africa to put pressure on the government to release arrested opposition leaders, restore internet access, and respect human rights.
The abbreviated use of the term first appeared on October 10, 1990 in the Xinhua General News Service.
According to Center for Strategic and International Studies president John Hamre, Tillerson was instrumental in the change and "a key leader in helping the group come to a consensus".
It is probably technically feasible to reduce standby power by 75% overall; most savings will be less than a watt, but other cases will be as large as 10 watts.
Location The headquarters of the ministry are located at Municipality Mukaza Kabondo district ROHERO zone Avenue du 13 October N ° 6 in Bujumbura the capital city of the country.
History M&T is an established technique that was first launched as a national program in the UK in 1980, and has since then spread throughout Europe.
Turkey In October 2021 a coal-fired power station was said by opposition MP Ali Öztunç to be still operating without filters due to company lobbying.
Recycling appliances for their original or other purposes, involves disassembly, removal of hazardous components and destruction of the equipment to recover materials, generally by shredding, sorting and grading.
MDC-T offices were attacked and torched during the protests with the MDC-T alleging that ZANU-PF supporters were responsible.
The oil company bears the mineral and financial risk of the initiative and explores, develops and ultimately produces the field as required.
The Ministry of Water Supply, Irrigation and Energy was established on 6 February 2022 with the responsibility of carrying out various works in the fields of drinking water, energy and irrigation in all the fourteen districts of Koshi Province, as specified in the division of labor regulations.
Mission Ensure an enabling environment to improve the Oil and Gas value chain, driven by modern technology, industry, best practices, stakeholders' engagement and innovations in alternative energy.
Since 2015, Switch, the developer of SUPERNAP data centers, has had a third party audited colocation PUE of 1.18 for its SUPERNAP 7 Las Vegas, Nevada facility, with an average cold aisle temp of 20.6 °C (69.1 °F) and average humidity of 40.3%.
Later on, ArmEnergo became the official body eligible to control the entire energy system of Armenia.
In 1971, the Nigerian National Oil Corporation (NNOC) was created to handle direct commercial operational activities in the oil industry on behalf of the Federal Government.
International After the Green New Deal idea was proposed by Thomas Friedman in 2007 and developed by the British Green New Deal Group, a plan for an international green new deal was advanced by the United Nations.
As of 2000, jet fuel stocks for at least 55 days of consumption were required, with half of those stocks controlled by the Société Anonyme de Gestion des Stocks de Sécurité (SAGESS) and the other half controlled by producers.
ACEEE's research programs include: Behavior and human dimensions – Researches ways individuals can change their behavior to save energy and ways these behaviors can be encouraged and amplified.
Manufacturers of specified electronic devices are obligated to attach a CEL label to their goods to inform China-based consumers of the product's energy efficiency.
At the user's request, they may mail in their old computers or arrange for pickup from the manufacturer.
NPCIL has asked for orders from private companies for construction of the reactors at their manufacturing sites.
In Mexico, the Secretariat of Energy (Spanish: Secretaría de Energia) is the government department in charge of production and regulation of energy.
The Ministry of Water, Irrigation and Energy is the governmental body of Koshi Province, Nepal, responsible for managing drinking water, irrigation, electricity, water-borne disasters (rivers and landslides) at the Provincial level.
Energy sources While being surrounded by countries that have significant hydrocarbon reserves, Armenia does not have enough fossil fuels and coal to be able to use them for producing energy.
On October 14, 2022, the TEA opened an exhibit on thorium energy at the National Museum of Nuclear Science & History in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
There are also buildings that produce more energy (for example by solar water heating or photovoltaic systems) over the course of a year than it imports from external sources.
These are also called smart energy systems (not to be confused with the Smart grid approach, as the latter only refers to the power sector).
Financing Geothermal projects in Myanmar use an estimated break even power cost of 5.3-8.6 U.S cents/kWh or in Myanmar Kyat 53-86K per kWh.
A 2017 study in Security Studies found that while there is a statistical relationship between oil wealth and ethnic war, the use of qualitative methods reveals "that oil has rarely been a deep cause of ethnic war." The emergence of the Sicilian Mafia has been attributed to the resource curse.
New dams, Tocoma (2 160 MW) and Tayucay (2 450 MW), are currently under construction between Guri and Caruachi.
This can be avoided by unplugging the appliance or using a power strip and using the switch on the power strip to cut all power to the appliance.
The meeting was a success and the participants decided on 11 July 1924 to establish a permanent organisation named World Power Conference.
The following buildings are of significance in pioneering the use of solar powered building design: MIT Solar House #1, Massachusetts, United States (Hoyt C.
The Anglo-American Petroleum Agreement or Washington Agreement (August 8, 1944) was a failed attempt by the British and American governments to establish a lasting agreement to manage international petroleum supply and demand.
However, if a fully integrated smart energy system is used, cheaper solutions in non-electricity-sectors can be used, as a cross-sectoral approach makes it possible to convert renewable electricity to energy carriers that can be stored in much more affordable types of energy storage.
The France, Germany, and Italy agreement France, Germany and Italy have an oil-sharing agreement in place that allows them to buy oil from each other in the event of an emergency.
The PCRA aims to become a center of excellence for conservation of hydrocarbons & environment protection for sustainable development on our inherent strength.
Malawi Malawi is considering creating a 22-day reserve of fuel, which is an expansion from the current five-day reserve.
Solar Hot Water for 2030 (Task 69), Solar and Heat Pump Systems (Task 44), Solar Combisystems (Task 26) solar industrial process heat, e.g.
Proponents of international trade point to the success of fair trade programs in other industries, where cooperation has led creation of sustainable jobs, and can bring affordable technology in countries where repair and reuse rates are higher.
énergie ouest suisse (eos) 60% Canton of Basel-City (Industrielle Werke Basel) 131⁄3 % BKW FMB Energie S.A.
(Note: all units sold in Canada are placed through the R-2000 program, a standard test equivalent to the HVI test).
The weather and sea-state, plus the logistics involved in transporting goods from one port to another, also have big effects.
The Icelandic Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism (Icelandic: Iðnaðarráðuneytið) is one of the cabinet-level government ministries responsible for Iceland's economy.
For this reason, the Ministry never seriously considered renewable energies because they take a longer time to deploy.
The Ministry of Energy and Minerals (MEM) is the governmental body in the Sultanate of Oman responsible for developing and implementing the government policy for exploiting the oil and gas resources in Oman.
United States Federal Federal tax Grant of 30%, which expires December 31, 2011, or a Federal tax credit of 30%, which expires December 31, 2016 are available for residential systems and businesses.
The UK went on to produce its first environmental White Paper 'This Common Inheritance' in 1990, and the budget for the EEO rose from £26m in 1990 to £59m in 1992.
The work of the AIB is relevant to all electricity customers, as the Guarantee of Origin (the instrument created in the European Directive and standardised through EECS) is a cornerstone of providing reliable disclosure information on the origin of electricity supplied to consumers.
However, estimates in the report exclude the amount of heat required for maintenance of indoor temperatures and hot water consumption, due to a lack of data.
The Cuban economy, heavily dependent on economic aid from the Soviet Union, suffered tremendously following the end of the Cold War.
By focusing on the power sector, the ministry will be able to deliver it more effective management and coordination.
Any processor that receives paint must be registered with the Paint Recycling Program and meet all applicable environmental, transportation, health & safety, and local requirements.
Ministers See also Council of Ministers (Syria) References External links Official website Ministry of Electricity on Facebook
A 2025 meta-analysis found significant gaps between Turkey's renewable energy potential and current utilisation.
Adam McGibbon, writing for The Independent, criticized Earth Hour for releasing fossil fuel companies and politicians from their responsibility to deal with climate change.
The earlier directive also required EU members to submit National Energy Efficiency Action Plans, with the first plan to be lodged by 30 June 2007.
Furthermore, without the vibrations, the aircraft requires less maintenance.Another advantage is noise reduction, which is said to be 80% less than conventional aircraft.
In 1982, the Arab League's Arab Petroleum Congress (founded in 1959) merged into OAPEC's Arab Energy Conference (founded in 1979), which has continued to meet periodically to at least 2014.
Through Saudi Arabian Basic Industries Company (SABIC), established in 1976, the ministry oversaw the operation of petrochemicals and other heavy industry projects.
The Ministry of Environment and Energy (Spanish: Ministerio de Ambiente y Energía, MINAE) is a ministry or department of the government of Costa Rica.
made from 100% sustainable raw materials such as waste cooking oil, and marine gas oil (MGO)." As of April 2022, "ammonia, methanol and methane are viable deep sea shipping fuels, while compressed and liquid hydrogen are not", according to a World Economic Forum article.
Paint is shipped to companies such as GDB International, American Paint Recyclers (Ohio), Metro Paint (Oregon), UCI Environmental (Nevada) and Kelly Moore, Visions Paint Recycling, Inc (California)& Williams Paint Recycling Company.
The government sets the price of residential gas and electricity, and as of 2018, for residential consumers, "high cost is the most important problem of Turkey's energy system".
dependence on oil." Levi is also the author of the book On Nuclear Terrorism (Harvard University Press, 2007) and coauthor with Michael E.
Complete list of Progress Reports EU commission 2015 Renewable Energy Report See also EU Renewable energy directive European Union directive EU Energy efficiency directive References External links EU National Renewable Energy Action Plans (NREAP) National Energy Efficiency Plans and Annual Reports.
Duct sealing or duct tightening At construction stage, the airtightness of individual components depends on the design (rectangular or round ducts, pressed or segmented bends, etc.) and assembly (seam type and welding quality).
Subject coverage ETDEWEB covered an extensive base of topics, the main areas included information on energy research and development along with energy policy and planning.
The Department of Climate, Energy and the Environment (Irish: An Roinn Aeráide, Fuinnimh agus Comhshaoil) is a department of the government of Ireland that is responsible for environmental policy, energy policy, and protects and develops the natural resources of Ireland.
Each of the members is represented by one representative in the management body called the executive committee.
Turntide won a 2020 Gold Edison Award and 2020 Product of the Year from Environmental and Energy Leader.
The main SHEAP offices are located close to the Lerwick Power Station along with a 12 MWh heat store.
Director Faith Morgan, together with the non-profit group The Community Solution, seeks to educate audiences about peak oil and the impact it will have on transportation, agriculture, medicine, and other industries.
There is no statewide cap on the aggregate capacity of net-metered systems.” Additionally, all utilities that are subject regulation under the Public Regulation Commission’s (PRC) jurisdiction must offer net metering.
The Solar Decathlon China (SDC) is a cooperative student competition in China focused on the design and construction of sustainable housing.
The main factors representing and influencing driving behavior include velocity, acceleration, gear, road parameters, weather, etc.
These affiliates plan and coordinate different types of activities, such as conferences, software workshops, symposia, etc.
The main objective of the Digital Cleanup Day is to limit the environmental impacts caused by the increasing use of digital technologies.
When they were offered a partnership with ARAMCO to develop the oil resources of Saudi Arabia, their partners in IPC refused to release them from the agreement.
On 20 May 2024, Abraham Belay succeeded as the minister while Aisha replaced his previous role of Defense Minister.
Overview The film is a reflection of the peak oil scenario argued by oil industry experts and political activists, including Matthew Simmons and James Howard Kunstler.
After the 2021–2023 global energy crisis, there has been several countries in East Asia and India that have signaled a commitment to building national strategic natural gas reserves such as Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, and China.
The Power Division of the Ministry of Energy is an administrative and bureaucratic department to oversee the policy matters in electricity generation, grid transmission, and power distribution nationwide.
Greenpeace report on Eni activities In July 2024, Greenpeace Italy released a report monitoring Eni's involvement in projects of hydrocarbon exploration and extraction of petroleum and gas worldwide, which cited official data from Rystad Energy's database as of November 2023.
Proponents of a UNEO argue that it would play a vital role in increasing the political importance of environmental issues in the UN, and could therefore play a vital role in solving the many environmental challenges the earth currently faces.
Energy consumption figures for a standard workload may make it easier to judge the effect of an improvement in energy efficiency.
The label includes the product's energy efficiency class (1–5) as well as information regarding its energy consumption.
When coasting with the engine running and manual transmission in neutral, or clutch depressed, there will still be some fuel consumption due to the engine needing to maintain idle engine speed.
It asked the voter to indicate whether the province should create "a publicly-owned utility administered by the Alberta Government Power Commission" or leave the electricity industry in the hands of companies already in the business, a mixture of municipal operations and private companies.
Factories may close and businesses may flee, but petroleum and precious metals remain for the taking.
Egypt and Argentina joined as Association countries in March 2022, and Ukraine was formally invited on 16 June 2022, and joined in July 2022.In July 2025, Brazil started the process to become a member country.
Today, the main aim of the ministry is to develop and maintain the governance policy of Armenia in the sphere of energy infrastructures and natural resources.
This construction is the group's first case study, and research projects have been established to help it meet the lab's ambitious goals: limiting its consumption and emissions to the values set for 2050 by the 2000-watt society vision, while considering the whole life cycle of its components.
Europe In the European Union, a strong policy of liberalisation of the European energy markets was pursued by the European Commission in the 1990s and the first decade of the 21st century.
This has triggered research on alternative insulating foam fitting the application, which include polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polybutylene (PB-1).
Organization The ministry relies on a central administration and several specialized structures covering its different areas of activity.
Automakers are required to boost fleetwide gas mileage to at least 35 mpg (14.8 km/L) by the 2020 model year.
In 2020, the Volvo Group with other truck makers including DAF Trucks, Daimler AG, Ford, Iveco, MAN SE, and Scania AB pledged to end diesel truck sales by 2040.
Saudi Arabia is an oil-based economy with strong government controls over major economic activities.
The World Energy Council hosts the World Energy Congress, which is the world's largest and most influential energy event covering all aspects of the energy agenda.
Studying international oil and gas markets to develop marketing policies for the production of oil and gas.
In August 2021, the Alliance supported the introduction of the Main Street Efficiency Act of 2021 in the House by Rep.
SolarAid is an international development charity which is working to create a sustainable market for solar lights in Africa.
Any claims above the $15 billion would be covered by a Congressional mandate to retroactively increase nuclear utility liability or would be covered by the federal government.
The centre was established as the 5th research project (Annex 5) in the context of the implementing agreement Energy in Buildings and Communities Programme (at that time called ECBCS) of the International Energy Agency.
The Summit is also portrayed as an opportunity for everyone with an interest in addressing climate change to come together to share solutions, reach agreements, and continue to make progress.
"The overwhelming need at the moment is to inspire ordinary people with a vision of a better world, to make them feel that action on climate change is utterly desirable and positive....
Federal policy – Develops policy recommendations and documents how efficiency measures can reduce energy use, air pollution, and greenhouse gas emissions while benefiting the economy.
Interregional Department of State Inspection Western Interregional State Inspection in the oil and gas complex; Southern Interregional Office of the State Inspection in the oil and gas complex.
The Unit was upgraded to a Petroleum Division within the Ministry of Mines and Power, with the expansion of the petroleum industry activities.
History According to the Decree of the President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov on July 7, 2012 "On creation of the Ministry of Energy of Turkmenistan" was the successor of the abolished department of the Ministry of Energy and Industry of Turkmenistan.
In August 2022, the Hungarian Nuclear Energy Authority authorized Rosatom to expand the nuclear power plant at Paks with two new VVER reactors with capacity of 1.2 gigawatts each.
See also Terrorism insurance Contract adjustment board Public Law 85-804 Price-Anderson Nuclear Industries Indemnity Act == References ==
Pickering was reportedly high on the list, but he withdrew himself from consideration in early 2008.
Estimation of the scale of direct effects on residential electricity, heating and motor fuel consumption has been common motivation for research of rebound effects.
After Nepal was transformed into a federal structure and the system of union, state and local government was completed in the year 2017, the three-level elections were completed and the provincial government was formed.
See also Anti-nuclear movement in the United States Contesting the Future of Nuclear Power List of books about nuclear issues Nuclear energy policy Nuclear or Not?
In government contracting, a Contract Adjustment Board is a department board at the Secretariat level in the U.S.
The Ministry of Electric Power (Burmese: လျှပ်စစ်စွမ်းအားဝန်ကြီးဌာန; abbreviated MOEP) administers Burma's electric power policies.
Due to the structure of the liability immunities, as the number of nuclear plants in operation is reduced, the public liability in case of an accident goes up.
The CETF stated its primary goals include managing telecommunication mergers and helping strengthen the broadband Internet infrastructure of California, with saving energy an indirect result of its procedures.
The main function of the Ministry of Energy and Mines include: design and implement the National policy in energy, geology and Mines; promote geological research and mining industry activities; developing and implementing policies related to electricity, minerals, petroleum and petroleum products.
The growth of the solar market in the United States, as a result of the SunShot initiative, has greatly increased the accessibility to solar powered technology and increased its general utility throughout the country, by reducing costs to consumers.
A smart grid can, for example, pre-heat or pre-cool a home so that less energy is needed during a peak time.
Low impact energy production The next priority in the hierarchy covers energy sources that are not entirely sustainable, but have a low environmental impact.
List of ministers Since 1960 the ministry was headed by the following six ministers: Abdullah Tariki (December 1960 – 9 March 1962) Ahmed Zaki Yamani (9 March 1962 – 5 October 1986) Hisham Nazer (24 December 1986 – 2 August 1995) Ali Naimi (2 August 1995 – 7 May 2016) Khalid A.
The complainant was said to have significantly damaged the doctoral candidate’s career through defamation and slander.
In 1989, Rifkin brought together climate scientists and environmental activists from 35 nations in Washington, D.C., for the first meeting of the Global Greenhouse Network.
Securing Nebraska’s Energy and Economic Future: Creating Jobs, New Economic Opportunities and Health Benefits through Productive Investments in Wind Energy and Energy Efficiency, by John A.
Parker is co-author of the book Platform Revolution, which was included among the 16 must-read business books for 2016 by Forbes and has since been published in 10 languages.
Weitzman was adopted by elementary-school teachers, Samuel and Fannie (Katzelnick) Weitzman, who gave him the name Martin Lawrence Weitzman." Weitzman graduated with a B.A.
In data compiled for the period 2005 to 2007 and excluding individual contributions of less than $200, 64 percent of Inslee's donations were from outside the state of Washington and 86 percent came from outside his district (compared to 79 percent for the average House member).
Though trailing in early polls, he won election with 52% of the vote, a three-point margin over his Republican opponent, state attorney general Rob McKenna.
ISBN 0-86861-306-1 See also Renewable energy commercialization in Australia References External links A clean energy future for Australia Australian Financial Review article Australia's energy choices Canberra Times article Clean energy future
His margin of victory was the largest in a gubernatorial election in Washington since Gary Locke's in 2000 and he also became the first Democrat in two decades to win a county in Eastern Washington, winning Whitman County.
armed forces in the 2011 Libyan civil war and against limiting the use of funds to support NATO's 2011 military intervention in Libya.
In July 2003, Currie was selected as one of eight leading gas and energy executives by the United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce to discuss the natural gas supply-demand imbalance that was occurring at the time.
He has been a senior fellow of SIEPR since 1998 and a senior fellow by courtesy at the Hoover Institution from 2001 until his retirement.
Biography Tainter studied anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley and Northwestern University, where he received his Ph.D.
Nordhaus graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover and subsequently received his BA and MA from Yale in 1963 and 1972, respectively, where he was a member of Skull and Bones.
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
IEA leadership While at the International Energy Agency, Birol has overseen several major changes in the approach of the organization.
Polenske, Roberto Guerrero Compeán, Ciro Biderman, "Regional, Economic, and Environmental Implications of Dual Ethanol Technologies in Brazil", 2009-07-13 Karen R.
Leach calls for a "level playing field that discourages more emissions, no matter where they come from" but does not "demonize" the oil sands.
His PhD is from the Energy Economics and Policy Institute at the University of Grenoble (now called Université Grenoble Alpes).
Published works The Investor Visit and Other Stories: Disruption, Denial and Transition in the Energy Business (2020).
His research interests include the economics and policy of electric markets, renewable energy investments, and energy efficiency.
Hutchinson '68A Professor of Engineering Innovation at Dartmouth College and the Faculty Director of the Arthur L.
The Democratic National Committee denied the request, but 53 of its voting members wrote an open letter protesting that decision.
Having lived his early life in the Midlands where he attended the independent King Edward's School, Birmingham, Klemperer went on to gain an engineering degree from Cambridge University, and an MBA and an economics PhD from Stanford University.
Towards the end of his career at the VU university Nijkamp faced accusations of self-plagiarism and VU-appointed investigators have criticised referencing methods in some of his work.
His book How the World Really Works: The Science Behind How We Got Here and Where We're Going was a nominee for the 2022 Balsillie Prize for Public Policy.
External links [University profile] (https://www.dii.unipd.it/category/ruoli/personale-docente?key=7FFB9E0A01C994885DFF99E6CAB2B632) [Personal website] (https://www.arturolorenzoni.it/chi-sono/) == References ==
oil import policy, regulatory reform of the natural gas industry, and oil exploration and development in non-OPEC developing countries.
Zucchet (born December 24, 1969) is an American Democratic politician, a former member of the San Diego City Council, and a former deputy mayor of San Diego.
Polenske, Xin Li, Zhiyu Chen, "Land Recycling in China and its Implication for the Regional Economy", AISRe-Associazione Italiana di Scienze Regionali, 2011-01-01 Karen R.
Past work includes dematerialization and recycling, ecological-economic modelling, construction of aggregate economic and environmental performance indicators, the growth-versus-environment debate, and spatial/international aspects of environmental policy.
Newell is often cited as an authority on climate, energy, and environmental policy issues in major media outlets like the Financial Times, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, NPR, and C-SPAN.
In his latest work for the China Council, he was co-chair of a task force on sustainable use of coal, reporting to the Premier of China.
The 3 results were then compared with 27 similar investigations, 3 each relating to 9 other 'challenges' in the areas of health and environment.
He formerly worked for San Diego State University, where he is now an associate professor, emeritus.
He also advised James Schlesinger, the first US energy secretary, around the time of the Iranian revolution.
In this spaceship economy, all waste materials will be temporarily discarded and stored in inactive reservoirs – or what he calls 'waste baskets' – before being recycled and returned to active use in the economic system at some later point in time.
In 2009, Milow ran for the Moscow City Duma as an independent candidate, but was not admitted to register.
Such an approach would allow us to include new goods in the consumer price index without worrying about whether the index of today is comparable to that of ten years ago when the good did not exist.
The plan, approved by the President and Vice President, was an important step in building US military capability in the Gulf resulting in the successful defense of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia in the 1991 Gulf War.
In 2007, Tol predicted a reduction in annual economic growth of 0.3-0.4% in the Republic of Ireland if greenhouse gases were reduced by 3% per year.
Williamson writing for The Regulatory Review, a publication of the Penn Program on Regulation, notes how "changes in the composition of goods manufactured in the U.S.
Awards Yergin was awarded the 1997 United States Energy Award for "lifelong achievements in energy and the promotion of international understanding." The International Association for Energy Economics gave Dr.
On 26 September 2019 the Open University of the Netherlands awarded him an honorary doctorate (“eredoctoraat” in Dutch).
He is known for setting out valuation techniques for natural phenomena, arguing that the environment is "under-priced" and that the benefit of environmental services may be calculated.
Climate Change From 1995 to 2001, he was a senior scientist at the International Energy Agency in Paris.
Sophie Brochu participates in the Laval University Foundation's Great Campaign (campaign leadership).
Tainter's concept of diminishing marginal returns on complexity, when applied to contemporary societies, has been termed Peak complexity.
He lives in a house with unusually thick insulation, grows some of his own food, and eats meat roughly once a week.
From 2006 to 2018, he served as the founding director of the Precourt Energy Efficiency Center, which focused on interdisciplinary research into cost-effective approaches to energy efficiency and climate mitigation.
Pindyck's teaching and research focuses on market structure, financial economics, environmental, resource, and energy economics, the role of uncertainty on investment decisions and policy formulation, and economic policy generally.
Barring continual conquest of your neighbors, which is always subject to diminishing returns, innovation that increases productivity is – in the long run – the only way out of the dilemma of declining marginal returns on added investments in complexity.
He acknowledges that this level of taxation is too low to significantly discourage fossil fuel use but argues it would help to stimulate the development of fuel-saving technology and improve the competitiveness of renewable energy sources.
He studied mathematics as an undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley and received his Ph.D.
The VU's rector, Frank van der Duyn Schouten, stated that Nijkamp had acted improperly but had not committed plagiarism.
Research Sweeney's research has focused on energy and environmental economics, electricity and gasoline market dynamics, depletable and renewable resource economics, energy demand and price modeling, environmental regulation, climate policy, and housing market dynamics.
Newell (born 1965) is an American energy economist, environmental economist, and climate policy expert who served as the seventh administrator of the United States Energy Information Administration from 2009 to 2011.
Smil stresses the need for energy prices to reflect their true costs, including greenhouse gas emissions, and promotes a decrease in the demand for fossil fuels through energy-saving measures.
He has previously served as Senior Economist for Energy and Environment on the President's Council of Economic Advisers and as Professor of Energy and Environmental Economics at Duke University.
An internal investigation at the VU determined that some of these papers were recycled versions of yet earlier papers, with other co-authors, who had not been cited properly and this might be considered a form of plagiarism.
In The Share Economy: Conquering Stagflation, Weitzman proposed that a main cause of stagflation is paying workers a fixed wage, regardless of how the company is performing.
"Skip" Laitner, Dylan Sullivan, and Nolan Moser, An Issue Brief, Washington, DC: Natural Resources Defense Council.
Milov co-authored with the late Boris Nemtsov in 2008 a report on the Putin administration's failures, which was suppressed.
People-Centered Initiatives for Increasing Energy Savings Archived 2013-03-07 at the Wayback Machine, Karen Ehrhardt-Martinez and John A.
A Thousand Barrels a Second: The Coming Oil Break Point and the Challenges Facing an Energy Dependent World (2006).
This theoretical program would start in 2033 with two aircraft and 4,000 annual flights, increasing over 15 years to nearly 100 aircraft flying hundreds of flights a week," and would cost annually to operate "roughly $2.25 billion".
"An empirical multi-country analysis of the impact of environmental regulations on foreign trade flows".
Much of Pindyck's work addressed the role and implications of uncertainty for market behavior, pricing, and production, and how various kinds of uncertainty affect irreversible investment decisions.
Brochu graduated in economics from Laval University, and she began her career in 1987 at the Société québécoise d'initiatives pétroles (SOQUIP), a state-owned company of the Government of Quebec.
As Roman agricultural output slowly declined and population increased, per-capita energy availability dropped.
He later held research and teaching positions at Kuwait University, the University of California, Berkeley, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Harvard University, and CERN.
He served on Canada's National Roundtable on the Environment and the Economy (2006–09) and since 2006 has been a research fellow at the C.D.
Copenhagen Consensus Bjørn Lomborg chose Tol to participate in his "Copenhagen Consensus" project in 2008.
Martin's Press, ISBN 9781250093547 2024, Planet Aqua: Rethinking Our Home in the Universe, Polity Pr, ISBN 978-1-509-56373-9 References External links Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Jeremy Rifkin at IMDb
Gorbachev also hated my guts and called for my assassination and imprisonment and so forth." He asserted that he had survived these threats, because he had been protected by unnamed U.S.
In 1979, Morse became Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy, and was the U.S.
Daly later went on to become a leading ecological economist as well as the economics profession's most faithful, persistent and influential proponent of the economics of Georgescu-Roegen.
He was president of the Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, a premier journal for energy intelligence, from 1988 to 1999.
After earning a llicenciatura in economics from the Autonomous University of Barcelona in 2006, she went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for graduate study, and completed a Ph.D.
Martin testified before the United States Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on the study conclusions.
For his pioneering contributions to energy research, he was honored by the International Association for Energy Economics.
Richels, and Geoffrey Blanford to prepare the "Challenge Paper" on global warming which examined three approaches devised by Lomborg for tackling the issue.
The President responded that since the attacks were in Rome and Vienna, authorities in those countries should bring the criminals to justice.
Tainter notes that in the west, local populations in many cases greeted the barbarians as liberators.
The investigation committee under Jaap Zwemmer concluded in March 2015 that Nijkamp had re-used earlier publications in new papers on a certain scale, without proper referencing and the committee qualified this as "questionable research practice".
Education Shihab-Eldin received all his academic degrees from the University of California, Berkeley: a B.Sc.
This book describes the information technologies, standards, and rules that make up platforms, and also explains how they are used and developed by the biggest and most innovative global companies.
Martin's Press, ISBN 978-1-250-25320-0 2022, The Age of Resilience: Reimagining Existence on a Rewilding Earth, St.
Goldman Sachs Currie joined Goldman Sachs in 1996, where he became managing director in 2002 before being named Global Head of Commodities Research in 2006, and a partner in 2008.
Then, at the end of 2020, Currie argued that a long-lasting bull market for commodities had started.
In his ruling, Judge Sirica said that Rifkin and his legal counsel "had made a satisfactory showing that they are likely to succeed" in their lawsuit.
Career Leach is Professor of Economics and Law at the University of Alberta where he teaches courses in environmental and energy economics, environmental law and utilities law.
Olmstead (Island Press, 5 January 2016) References External links Nat Keohane, Center for Climate and Energy Solutions
He has been a member of the faculty at Yale since 1967, in both the Economics department and the School of the Environment.
Contributions on economics of climate change Nordhaus has written on the economics of climate change.
From 1998 to 2008 he was an adjunct professor at Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy, and from 2010 to 2011 an adjunct professor at Trinity College, Dublin's Department of Economics.
Polenske, Ning Ai, "Socioeconomic Impact Analysis of Yellow-dust Storms: An Approach and Case Study for Beijing", Routledge, 2008-06-01 Karen R.
Representative Sid Morrison chose not to run for reelection representing Washington's 4th congressional district, instead mounting a campaign for governor.
In detailing its reasons for giving the prize to Nordhaus, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences specifically recognized his efforts to develop "an integrated assessment model, i.e.
Weyant is the director of the Energy Modeling Forum, an editor of Energy Economics, and a lead author of the IPCC (the work of the IPCC, including the contributions of many scientists, was recognised by the joint award of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize).
Prior to the Loan Programs Office, Shah gained prominence as an American clean energy entrepreneur, author and podcast host.
Selected publications Books Auctions: Theory and Practice, Princeton University Press, Princeton, US, 2004.
He was also the president of the Institute for Energy Policy, a Moscow-based independent think tank until 2013.
While there he was a member of the faculty of the School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University, and he wrote Climate Shock (2015), a book emphasizing the importance of risk and uncertainty for prompting action on climate change.
Eventually, this cost grew so great that any new challenges such as invasions and crop failures could not be solved by the acquisition of more territory.
He was the Scottish National Party Member of Parliament (MP) for East Lothian from 2015, until he lost his seat to Martin Whitfield of the Labour Party at the 2017 general election.
Jeff Currie is an economist and currently Chief Strategy Officer of Energy Pathways at The Carlyle Group.
Lynch said LaRouche members began to impersonate her and her researchers in telephone calls, and called her "Fat Lynch" in their publications.
The Netherland auction that took place 3 months later raised 1/4 of the revenue per head of population, and the difference has been attributed to the auction design.
Martin served as Special Assistant to Ronald Reagan for National Security Affairs, Executive Secretary of the United States National Security Council, and United States Deputy Secretary of Energy during the Ronald Reagan Administration.
Food System", United States Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Service, 2010-03-01 Karen R.
Research work Stephen Thomas is professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, and has been a researcher in the area of energy policy for over twenty-five years.
Polenske has been an advisor to international agencies, including the United Nations Development Programme, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the World Bank, as well as an economic consultant to the U.S.
Nebojsa Nakicenovic has been involved in all Assessment Reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
Finally, it proposed market oriented energy policies for the United States (deregulation of oil and gas price controls, permitting Alaskan oil exports, allowing eminent domain for coal slurry pipelines) -- all policies of which eventually came to fruition during the Reagan Presidency.
Jaccard, 2011, "Energy efficiency and the cost of GHG abatement: A comparison of bottom-up and hybrid models for the US," Energy Policy.
Saddler was the author of a book on Australian energy policy, Energy in Australia, and over 50 scientific papers, monographs and articles on energy technology and environmental policy, and is recognised as one of Australia's leading experts in this field.
Stephen Thomas is a professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, working in the area of energy policy.
His father returned from military service in World War II and, considering himself unable to care for his son, placed him in an orphanage.
Zucchet has also done work with the non-profit Environmental Defense Center in Santa Barbara while in college.
C2ES partners with business leaders — through their Business Environmental Leadership Council — to develop solutions that will accelerate a low-carbon transition, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and grow an equitable economy.
LaRouche started a campaign against the ADL and set up a group called "The Provisional Committee to Clean Up B'nai Brith".
'In the years ahead,' he wrote, 'more sophisticated software technologies are going to bring civilization ever closer to a near-workerless world.
From 1978 to 1988 he was deputy secretary general of OPEC, serving as acting secretary general from 1983 to 1988.
An accomplished rower while at Yale, he held the Club Singles course record at the Head of the Charles for 20 years after it was set in 1997.
Testimony, Analysis, and Commentary Newell has testified on multiple occasions in front of the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, most recently on global climate emissions trends and clean energy advancements.
He served as department chair from 1991 to 1996 and again from 1996 to 1999 following the merger between the EES department and the operations research department.
He finally grasped that philosophical pessimism may well be a stance favoured by a few solitary intellectuals like himself, but such a stance is normally shunned like a taboo in wider human culture: "[A] considered pessimist is looked upon as a bearer of bad news and ...
He previously served almost 10 years as a senior economist for Technology Policy for the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Ein Reiseführer für überzeugte Daheimbleiber, Wien, Ueberreuter-Verlag 2003, ISBN 3-8000-3957-5 2011: But Will The Planet Notice?.
Dubner, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2007 Study Guide Accompanying Macroeconomics, with Abel, Bernanke, Smith, and Kneebone,6th Canadian edition, Pearson Canada, 2011.
The court ruling was credited with beginning the process of regulating the release of genetically engineered organisms into the environment in the United States and around the world.
Corruption allegations Three days after becoming acting Mayor, Zucchet resigned from the City Council after he was convicted in U.S.
Siri Nippita, a gynecologist at NYU Langone Medical Center and the chief of the family planning division as well as the director of Reproductive Choice at Bellevue Hospital.
His work on the energy efficiency of Swedish housing culminated in his 1985 book Coming in from the Cold with Stephen Meyers and Henry Kelly.
Keynote speaker, 2002 World Congress of Environmental Economists Keynote speaker, 2006 World Congress of Animal Geneticists Works Books Weitzman wrote three books: The Share Economy: Conquering Stagflation; Income, Wealth, and the Maximum Principle; and Climate Shock, jointly with Gernot Wagner.
In recent presentations, Parker has spoken before groups that include the India Institute of Science, New York Climate Week, and the Hannover Messe Industrial Conference.
His father worked for the United Shoe Machinery Corporation in Rochester before the family moved to Lynn, Massachusetts.
He taught two graduate courses: Ec2680 Environmental and Natural Resource Economics and Ec2690, Environmental Economics and Policy Seminar.
In 2014, he published an update, correcting missing minus signs that had turned economic costs into benefits and adding data overlooked before; the mistakes he attributed to "gremlins".
Career He taught international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs from 1969 to 1975.
Martin set up an NSC crisis management center on the site of the Annenberg Estate where the President was staying and kept the President updated with morning, noon and evening meetings.
His PhD thesis, and independent work by Carl Christian von Weizsacker, began the study of consumer switching costs.
He "does not intend to have a cell phone ever." Smil is known for being "intensely private", shunning the press while letting his books speak for themselves.
In the mid-1990s, he created a quantitative model that describes the global interplay between the economy and the climate.
Citizens assemblies were established in each region to work alongside TIR Consulting Group's team to conceptualize and enact far-reaching initiatives to address climate change and "green" their respective economies and societies.
Also in 1989 Rifkin, with a group of environmentalists, attempted to prevent the launch of a NASA rocket that was expected to lift the Galileo space probe, claiming it carried a "very high risk" of explosion and "spraying deadly plutonium" over the territory of the USA.
He is affiliated with multiple organizations, as a director on the United States Energy Association, a trustee of the Brookings Institution, a long-term advisor to several U.S.
Public policy He was principal auction-theorist designing the UK '3G' mobile-phone license auction that raised £22½ billion in spring 2000 and was far more successful than several parallel exercises on the European continent.
From 2001 to 2007, he was an Assistant Professor and then associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management.
Weitzman was a leading economist whose research was focused largely on environmental economics, specifically climate change and the economics of catastrophes.
In 2018, Nakicenovic was inducted into the International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences.
However, a website of disgruntled ex-movement leaders lists incorrect predictions of sudden world economic collapse, war or depression in 1956, 1961–1970, 1972, 1975–1992, and 1994–2011.
He has been described by former US Secretary of Energy Steven Chu as "a leading expert on the economics of energy and environmental markets, policies, and technologies." Early life and education Newell earned a Ph.D.
When a society confronts a "problem," such as a shortage of energy, or difficulty in gaining access to it, it tends to create new layers of bureaucracy, infrastructure, or social class to address the challenge.
1974: Contacts with far-right groups, intelligence gathering LaRouche established contacts with Willis Carto's Liberty Lobby and elements of the Ku Klux Klan in 1974.
Saddler was a member of the Experts Group on Emissions Trading, appointed by the Australian Greenhouse Office, of the ABS Environmental Statistics Advisory Group, and of the ACT Environment Advisory Committee.
The Economist cited Leach's statistics in its January 1, 2011 article "Muck and brass: Canada's tar sands", which compared statements from a number of environmentalists, academics, and oil industry players, including the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP).
1993 to 1995: Senior Economist and Program Manager for Energy Efficiency and Economic Development, a program initiated by ACEEE.
Loan Programs Office Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm appointed Shah to direct the United States Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office (LPO) in March 2021.
Many of Martin's Department of energy accomplishments -including being a founder of the Human Genome project and instigator of the magnetic fusion project ITER were summarized by Deputy Secretary of Energy Dan Brouillette at a ceremony in honor of Martin in 2018.
In 2004 he was appointed a member of the scientific advisory board of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research.
Rifkin joined Prodi at a European Union conference in October 2002 to announce "a coordinated long-term plan for Europe to make the transition from fossil-fuel dependency to become the first "hydrogen economy" superpower of the 21st century".
A true energy transition will be a story of addition but also one of subtraction—in particular, reducing carbon emissions.” Notable Research, Awards, and Memberships Newell has published widely on topics such as energy innovation, climate policy, and energy efficiency.
Professional engagements Lorenzoni co-founded Galileia S.r.l., a spin-off company from the University of Padova that focused on renewable energy and energy efficiency from 2008 to 2020.
from Harvard University in 1997 in public policy, specializing in environmental and resource economics.
In December 2017 Inslee awarded $6.4 million in grant funding for apprenticeships and career connections to 29,000 youth in 11 communities.
Geoengineering Wagner was the founding co-director, joint with David Keith, of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program founded in 2017 as an interfaculty research initiative.
He has shown how uncertainty over future damages from climate change can affect policy decisions, such as the design of a carbon tax.
His most recent books include The Age of Resilience (2022), The Green New Deal (2019), The Zero Marginal Cost Society (2014), The Third Industrial Revolution (2011), The Empathic Civilization (2010), and The European Dream (2004).
A key responsibility of Martin's was to conceptualize and then negotiate with the Europeans on the issue of reducing their reliance on Soviet natural gas imports, a project that was directed personally by President Reagan.
See also New Yorkers in journalism Environmental economics Climateflation Fossilflation References External links Professional homepage
See also List of Yale University people List of American non-fiction environmental writers List of economic advisors to Donald Trump List of University of Cambridge people Predicting the timing of peak oil References External links Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Daniel Yergin at IMDb
2020s In September 2020, Yergin published The New Map: Energy, Climate, and the Clash of Nations,with a revised edition published the following year.
Several months later, in July 2007, Currie discussed with Bloomberg the potential impact rising oil prices could have on the global economy.
His home area of the district, anchored by Yakima, is relatively rural and agriculture-based, while the southeastern part is more focused on research and nuclear waste disposal, anchored by the Tri-Cities.
Born and raised in Seattle, Inslee graduated from the University of Washington and Willamette University College of Law.
Tol characterises his position as arguing that the economic costs of climate policy should be kept in proportion to its benefits.
His other innovations include the Anglo-Dutch auction, and (with Aytek Erdil) Reference-Rule Pricing for package auctions.
As a Quaker, he was a conscientious objector during World War II and joined a Civilian Public Service camp in lieu of military service.
Leach says that carbon pricing is not necessarily and unconditionally going to "achieve a better outcome" than with regulation or cap and trade.
He is ranked among the top 100 economists in the world according to IDEAS/RePEc, and is by far the most prolific economist.
Previously, Parker was Director of Dartmouth's Master of Engineering Management (MEM) program, redesigning it to focus on product management, data analysis, and AI.
In an article by Christopher Ketcham in The Intercept there are a number of critical insights and critical views of Nordhaus' methods and assumptions, which didn't recognise or value tipping-cascades or non-elastic eco and environmental risk.
He previously chaired the US Department of Energy's Task Force on Strategic Energy Research and Development.
As a UC Berkeley student and vibraphonist, he led his jazz group to victory at the Notre Dame Jazz Festival in 1967.
When the authors attempted to file a defamation lawsuit it was thrown out by Savyolovsky District Court Judge Tatyana Adamova, in a move that was applauded by Putin's lawyer, Yelena Zabralova.
Bobby Ray Inman, the CIA's deputy director in 1981 and 1982, said LaRouche and his wife had visited him, offering information about the West German Green Party.
Tol does not advocate another target, but has suggested that a carbon tax of $20/tC would be a policy in line with estimates of the cost of carbon.
Through these later years, he wrote several articles and papers, expanding on and developing his views.
Silent Spring, The Closing Circle, The Limits to Growth, and Small Is Beautiful" by the Minneapolis Tribune.
Sirica issued a ruling halting an experiment that would have involved the "first deliberate release into the environment of organisms altered by gene splicing".
The audiobook includes an epilogue narrated by Yergin reflecting on the relevance of the book’s messaging present day, more than 30 years after its original publication date.
Martin helped arrange President Reagan's international meetings coordinating with the White House Advance Office, NSC staff and the Department of State.
"Rebound, Technology and People: Mitigating the Rebound Effect with Energy-Resource Management and People-Centered Initiatives," Karen Ehrhardt-Martinez and John A.
Democratic Party leaders refused to recognize LaRouche as a party member, or to seat the few delegates he received in his seven primary campaigns as a Democrat.
Early life and career Zucchet earned a bachelor's degree in Business Economics and Environmental Studies from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and a master's degree in Environmental Economics and Policy from Duke University.
See also Andy Stirling David Elliott Energy Fair Gordon Walker World Nuclear Industry Status Report == References ==
Pindyck has shown how this option value depends on the nature and extent of the uncertainty, and how it can affect investment decisions and market structure.
[German: "City Country Climate"] 2021: Geoengineering: The Gamble, Wiley 2021, ISBN 1509543058 2024: Climate Race, Leykam; a bilingual English-German collection of a dozen monthly columns for Project Syndicate, ISBN 978-3-7011-0528-1 Personal life Wagner has been married since 2002 to Dr.
Trump's tariff policies threatened to reduce demand, and other factors included negative first quarter economic news from the U.S.
The Panther Rio is a saloon car made by British manufacturer Panther Westwinds, based on the Triumph Dolomite.
According to the company, it differed from the family saloon-class Dolomite, in being finished to "Rolls-Royce standards".
Egypt sought to bend not only international political policy but also the policies of more moderate governments, and sought to export the socialist revolution to neighboring moderate (i.e.
While Iraq officially claimed Kuwait was stealing its oil via slant drilling, its true motives were more complicated and less clear.
The worst-case scenario outlined in the report projected that the world population would peak at approximately 7.5 billion between 2035 and 2040, followed by a decline to 7 billion by 2065, 6 billion by 2090, and around 5.5 billion by 2100.
Focus The group's core focus is ensuring the resilience of fuel imports, particularly petrol, diesel and jet fuel, and other essential goods amid global market disruption.
The 2007 protest which took place at the latter end of the year, culminated in 200–300 lorries descending on Central London with the police closing off the A40 fly-over for use as a lorry park for the day.
Where food consumption has increased, it has largely been in processed ("value added") foods, sold in developing and developed nations.
Afghanistan Saudi and Islamist forces helped the Afghan Mujahideen in their struggle against the Soviets, with Saudi Arabian government providing approximately $4 billion in aid to the mujahidin from 1980 to 1990.
If the president's family members are aboard, but not the president himself, the flight can, at the discretion of the White House staff or Secret Service, use the callsign Executive One Foxtrot (EXEC1F).
However, China has to a large extent been able to meet its own demand for food, and even exports its surpluses in the world market.
Nepal accused India of imposing an undeclared blockade, which India denied, stating that the blockade was on the Nepalese side of the border, and that some Indian truck drivers were simply concerned about their safety amid protest-related clashes.
A heat engine runs by extracting thermal energy from the temperature difference between a hot and a cold reservoir; in the case of the liquid nitrogen engine, the "hot" reservoir is the air in the ambient ("room temperature") surroundings, which is used to boil the nitrogen.
On April 11, Energy Secretary Sharon Garin announced the arrival of about 329,000 barrels of diesel from Malaysia, part of a 900,000-barrel shipment procured by PNOCEC that was scheduled for delivery in three batches in April.
Also, shipping that normally goes through Port Fourchon is rerouted to the Port of Houston; Houston's port facilities are open around-the-clock with higher-than-usual throughput, with attendant higher risk of accident.
Oil field production curves can be modified by a number of factors: Production may be restricted by market conditions or government regulation.
In early October, Ukraine ceased its electricity exports to Moldova following the destruction of part of Ukraine's electricity system as a result of a mass bombing campaign of Ukrainian civilian and energy infrastructure by Russia.
After reaching $66.82, its highest point since September, the previous day, Brent finished at $63.76 and WTI ended at $59.19.
The latest peak was in 2001 when production reached 2,600 metric tons, then declined for several years.
On November 7, 1973, the Saudi and Kuwaiti governments declared Japan a "nonfriendly" country, to encourage it to change its noninvolvement policy.
Many transit authorities are working to purchase only electric buses while also restricting use of ICE vehicles in the city center to limit air pollution.
The cause was a damaged cable which caused an explosion at the electricity distribution centre and automatic shutdown of both power stations.
This threat overlapped with the concurrent Ukrainian energy crisis caused by Russian attacks on Ukrainian power infrastructure, forcing Ukraine to rely on electricity imports from neighboring countries since late 2022.
Safety However efficient the insulation on the nitrogen fuel tank, there will inevitably be losses by evaporation to the atmosphere.
The origins of the crisis have been attributed to the 1972 Conservative "dash for growth" budget initiating the inflation cycle.
Fearing the house will collapse, the sisters flee to a hollowed out tree stump that once served as their play house where Eva gives birth to a baby boy and rejoices.
However, the World Bank warns that combating inflation with rate hikes has increased the risk of a global recession.
The effect was worse in the United Kingdom, particularly on the London Stock Exchange's FT 30, which lost 73% of its value during the crash.
This policy was to provide very specific guidelines to run the Energy Task Force efficiently and effectively.
In October 2023, Bulgaria's government issued new transit fees on Russian gas which would aim to reduce Russia's revenues from selling the fossil fuel and discourage buyers of Russian gas.
Reciprocal measures Following a meeting with President of Russia Vladimir Putin in Moscow on 22 December, Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico announced that Slovakia was considering implementing reciprocal measures against Ukraine, including the suspension of emergency electricity supplies.
Minor components include calcium and aluminium oxides, which support the iron catalyst and help it maintain its surface area.
Cultural shifts especially among young people for whom acquisition of a driving licence is now seen less as a key rite of passage into adulthood, and is reflected in recent reductions in the propensity of young people to acquire driving licences.
Because of the dramatic inflation experienced during this period, a popular economic theory has been that these price increases were to blame, as being suppressive of economic activity.
The local plan identifies unbalanced development between the east and west sides of the Belait River and stresses the need to research the ecological impact on forest swamp areas and explore the potential of the Belait River as an internal port to support economic activities in the region.
Ukraine has refused to allow gas to be sent from the Sokhranovka gas pumping station through the Soyuz pipeline, declaring force majeure.
Fico himself claimed Slovakia was the only country "capable of supplying (emergency) electricity to Ukraine within 30 minutes, otherwise their power grid may collapse".
Experiments under high temperatures and pressures produced many hydrocarbons—including n-alkanes through C10H22—from iron oxide, calcium carbonate, and water.
French President Emmanuel Macron criticized the United States, Norway and other "friendly" natural gas supplier states for the extremely high prices of their supplies, saying that Europeans are "paying four times more than the price you sell to your industry.
Combination of increasing critical number and max load of lines – Shown to have no significant effect on either size of blackout.
Mining industry Western Australian-based mining companies could have potentially lost hundreds of millions of dollars, because the state is the world's largest producer of iron ore and one of the largest producers of gold and nickel, exporting $48.4 billion of minerals and energy in 2006.
The power crisis led to criticism of the Correa administration's management of the power sector as water levels of the reservoirs became depleted.
Tierney was a lifelong friend and protégé of the late Julian Simon (the winner of the Simon–Ehrlich wager), and eagerly embraced the opportunity to follow in his mentor's footsteps.
unfortunately the report has been largely dismissed by critics as a doomsday prophecy that has not held up to scrutiny." Also in 2008, researcher Peter A.
Valentin Dimitrov was initially sentenced in December 2010 to three years in prison for embezzling approximately BGN 2 million through lavish office renovations, luxury purchases (including a Jacuzzi installation), and unauthorized transfers to Austrian accounts.
Transnistria's Minister of Foreign Affairs thanked the EU on 29 January for the offered help and proposed to organize talks between Moldovan and Transnistrian "specialists" to clarify the details and conditions of the aid package.
Reaction 3: Methane + magnetite → ethane + hematite n CH4 + n Fe3O4 + n H2O → C2H6 + Fe2O3 + HCO−3 + H+ Reaction 3 results in n-alkane hydrocarbons, including linear saturated hydrocarbons, alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, aromatics, and cyclic compounds.
Governor Greg Abbott, who had originally appointed Walker, filled the vacant chairperson position by promoting PUC Commissioner Arthur D'Andrea two days later.
Proven reserves (also called measured reserves, 1P, and reserves) is a measure of fossil fuel energy reserves, such as oil and gas reserves and coal reserves.
A solar breeder is a photovoltaic panel manufacturing plant which can be made energy-independent by using energy derived from its own roof using its own panels.
The hearing's purpose was for Congress to learn about what the backup plans are in the electric utility industry in the case that the electric grid is damaged.
Gernot Wagner argued that the benefits of the Act would likely not be felt before the 2024 election, but that the act is a great long-term strategy to decouple from volatile energy markets that drive inflation.
Businesses involved in the fuel industry said in a joint statement on 29 September that they were "now seeing signs that the situation at the pumps has begun to improve".
The first is to eliminate tailpipe emissions of vehicles that are already on the road, as electric vehicles do not produce any direct emissions.
Frontlines: Fuel of War is a first-person shooter video game developed by Kaos Studios and released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox 360 in February 2008.
A Senate Committee inquiry was established to investigate the economic impacts and the state government's response to the crisis.
International sanctions were introduced after Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014, and subsequently tightened after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022; the new Nord Stream 2 pipeline's certification was later suspended.
However, the purely engineering term is also misleading in that squeezing the last bits of fossil fuel out follows the diminishing returns and at some point is so costly that it becomes highly impractical, as seen on a bell curve, which is why measures like P90 and P95 were created.
Synopsis In 2005, a global energy crisis, known as “The Long Emergency,” began when global peak oil extraction was reached.
The inflationary recession, combined with an expansionary government fiscal policy and a generous collective wage agreement among unions in 1974–1976, put Sweden on a highly inflationary path: the price index quintupled between 1972 and 1995.
A double CD containing only Jarre's original music was issued in 2010 on Tadlow Music/Silva Screen Records.
The rapidly changing industry response to decarbonization can be monitored in a weekly newsletter, several conferences, and a two day overview online course.
The turbine flash-expands liquid nitrogen that is sprayed into the high-pressure section of the turbine, and the expanding gas is combined with incoming pressurized air to produce a high-velocity stream of gas that is ejected from the back of the turbine.
Ecuador experienced rolling blackouts for two to six hours per day that lasted from November 2009 until January 2010.
Many businesses were forced to curtail or cease operations, resulting in workers being stood down or forced to take annual leave, and the government requested that businesses and householders conserve energy usage.
A few types of electric bicycles are able to re-capture a small amount of energy from braking and can re-charge the batteries while braking or traveling down hills (regenerative braking).
Because some biofuels such as ethanol contains less energy, more "tankstops" might be necessary for such planes.
The means of doing so will depend greatly on local circumstances and operational policies, but typically transmission utilities will establish localized 'power islands' which are then progressively coupled together.
Air currents vital for the distribution of solar heat across the planet whirl towards the poles, while the atmosphere starts to thin at the equator, and people migrate to more northerly and southerly cities to keep up with denser air.
Cause In October 2022, the Russian state-owned company Gazprom announced it would reduce its gas deliveries to Moldova by 30%, including Transnistria, an unrecognized separatist state supported by Russia and internationally recognized as part of Moldova.
After a request by Governor Ricardo Rosselló, the government electricity monopoly, PREPA, terminated its relationship with D.
In a severe economic crisis, the value of fiat money could dramatically decline, leading to scenarios where basic necessities, such as food, become disproportionately expensive.
Among the notable recent utopian movements are anarchoprimitivism, deep ecology, and techno-utopias such as transhumanism.
2022 January 25—Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan—The Kyrgyz capital Bishkek, Uzbek capital Tashkent, and Kazakhstan's economic center Almaty were hit by a severe power outage caused by a grid stressed by summer drought and a recent boom in cryptocurrency mining.
Overseas Filipinos Around 40,000 overseas Filipino workers were stranded in Manila as the country declared deployment ban to various Middle Eastern countries such as Bahrain, Israel, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates.
The Ministry of Power later became part of the Ministry of Technology on 6 October 1969, which merged into the Department of Trade and Industry on 20 October 1970.
When panic buying started on 24 September, there was not enough fuel in forecourt storage tanks to keep up with demand.
government to adjust its budget for changes in the economy, further mitigating the risk of rising prices.
The price must be above the cap price for three working days and be €35 per megawatt hour above an average of global liquefied natural gas prices.
OAPEC declared it would limit or stop oil shipments to the United States and other countries if they supported Israel in the conflict.
Of these, 100 million would be grants, other 100 million would be loans and another 50 million would be destined to help Moldova's most vulnerable citizens.
Peru In Peru, effects from the COVID-19 pandemic along with rising fertilizer and fuel prices as part of the economic impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine sparked the 2022 Peruvian protests, which resulted with the death of eight individuals and dozens injured.
The phrase "energy descent" has also become increasingly associated with the voluntary and deliberate choice of a society to reduce energy consumption in response to the global climate crisis.
On December 30, 2009, recognising advances in exploration and valuation technology, the SEC allowed 2P probable and 3P possible reserves to be reported, along with 1P proved reserves, though oil companies also have to verify the independence of third party consultants.
Because of the drought, water levels at the Paute River dam—which normally supplies 40% of Ecuador's power—were extremely low.
This is an example of mainstream media attention the movement received a few years after being founded.
Issues of residual capacity By March 2016 Tasmanian media were discussing the extent to which Hydro Tasmania would be able to draw upon very low water levels in dams and still create energy from the downstream power stations.
Public awareness campaigns were launched under the name "Cierre la llave" ("Turn Off the Tap"), hoping to measure how much water was being wasted.
It bottomed in 1084 when Rome's population, which had peaked under Trajan at 1.5 million, was only 15,000.
There were a few times when parts of Moldova were in blackout due to Russian shelling of critical infrastructure of Ukraine.
Ukrainian diplomats have informed the European Commission that while repair work is underway, the "uninterrupted and stable functioning" of the system is impossible as long as Russian attacks continue.
Affecting all the major stock markets in the world, particularly the United Kingdom, it was one of the worst stock market downturns since the Great Depression, the other being the 2008 financial crisis.
They get by using the skills their father taught them, though they miss the creature comforts they used to enjoy.
The project, named Disney's Grande Venezia Resort, was designed by Walt Disney Imagineering in conjunction with architectural firm Wimberly, Allison, Tong & Goo, the same firm that helped design the Grand Floridian.
In the two years from 1972 to 1974, the American economy slowed from 7.2% real GDP growth to −2.1% contraction, while inflation (by CPI) jumped from 3.4% in 1972 to 12.3% in 1974.
The country considers fast-tracking development of alternative energy sources, but there is little that can be done in the short-term to alter an economy structurally dependent on cheap foreign oil.
The fourth rate hike occurred on July 27, 2022, by 0.75 points, bringing the funds rate to a range between 2.25% and 2.5%.
Discussions on price cap proposals The EU originally proposed that a gas market correction mechanism would kick in when the price of month-ahead contracts on the Dutch Title Transfer Facility (TTF) exceeded €275 per megawatt hour and the gap between world prices was greater than €58.
If Murphy's Law were written for a market approach to electricity, then the law would state 'any system that can be gamed, will be gamed, and at the worst possible time.' And a market approach for electricity is inherently gameable.
Max infiltrates Underworld to size up Master Blaster and befriends Pig Killer, a convict sentenced to work there for slaughtering a pig to feed his children.
After Hurricane Katrina, the energy committees in both the Senate and the House hold hearings about the sudden rise in gasoline prices, the first time that they have gone over $3 per gallon.
9 April—South Africa—over 2.5 million people were left with out power in the capital Pretoria after vandalised high voltage 132 kV power lines caused seven pylons to collapse onto the N4 Highway.
The tour boat Kvitbjørn, ("polar bear"), operates in Svalbard, just a few hundred miles from the North Pole, piloting a newly developed Volvo Penta hybrid-electric propulsion system.
[1] On 30 August 2005, many gas stations raised prices by a considerable amount putting most of America over $3.00/gallon, as shown in the movie.
However, the country has been through a stress as great as the Stock Market Crash of 1929, and now knowing that relying on OPEC for most of its foreign oil imports makes the United States vulnerable, Americans will never take cheap oil for granted again.
In the meantime, fuel oil supply from Venezuela has continued, amounting to 50 million tonnes sent in two ships (in April and May) by PDVSA, in a coordinated effort with the Brazilian oil company Petrobras and the Electrical Market Management Company of Argentina (Cammesa).
The shadow transport secretary, Maria Eagle, warned of a danger of panic fuel buying, as did the AA after the government urged motorists to be ready for a strike-induced shortage.
Brent finished at $86.81 and WTI at $83.19, with the International Energy Agency reporting record demand for June and OPEC forecasting higher demand for the rest of the year along with the production cuts.
At his trial, the judge understood Marks's error, but he was still fined $50 rather than the $400 maximum fine to show the legislation had "teeth".
April to June 2023 The EU used 18% less gas than the 10 year average in the period October 2022 to January 2023, showing demand for gas has fallen.
It provides an analysis of the various problems associated with humanity's reliance on oil and other fossil fuels such as coal and natural gas.
Background and concept Fashion designer Robert Jankel founded Panther Westwinds to produce expensive and bespoke cars for the customer that wanted something entirely different.
There were other offices in Sydney, China, Rhodes, Athens and Papua New Guinea, according to the now-defunct official company website.
Despite the security provided by the loan, the Labour Party had already begun separating into social democratic and more socialist camps, causing bitter rows inside the party and with the trades unions.
Additionally, hydrocarbons from Malaysia's Asam Paya field in neighbouring Sarawak are piped into Rasau.
crude rising more than 35 percent, the biggest gain for a week since the futures contract began in 1983.
If a vehicle is stored in a poorly ventilated space, there is some risk that leaking nitrogen could reduce the oxygen concentration in the air and cause asphyxiation.
Following threats from Hungary to block the EPF fund, the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comments.
Theory updates 2009 update Following criticism regarding discrepancies in per capita energy consumption trends, Duncan published an updated analysis in 2009.
This causes $2 trillion USD of stock to become worthless, and oil workers are dismissed as the industry collapses.
Predictions for the price of oil At various points in the book, Roberts makes cautious predictions for the price of oil.
The Russian government would consider a failure to pay to be a default and the existing contract would be terminated.
An energy shortage in the 1960s resulted in the construction of the oil-fired Bell Bay Power Station.
28 March That morning David Cameron told a press conference that the fuel tanker drivers' strike has no justification and was part of a supposed Labour party plot to undermine his government.
Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) is a consulting company in the United States that specializes in advising governments and private companies on energy markets, geopolitics, industry trends, and strategy.
Olefins are thermally very unstable (which is why natural petroleum normally does not contain such compounds) and in laboratory experiments that last more than a few hours, the olefins are no longer present.
Sales Panther was optimistic about the Rio’s prospects and announced a pre-order of 100 units through H.R.
Background The explosions took place with the backdrop of the 2006 Russia-Ukraine gas crisis that same month.
Examples of proposed abiogenic methane deposits Panhandle-Hugoton field (Anadarko Basin) in the south-central United States is the most important gas field with commercial helium content.
Exemptions were issued for essential services and those with no alternatives to using their own vehicles.
The department was established in January 1974, when the responsibility for energy production was transferred away from the Department of Trade and Industry in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis and with the importance of North Sea oil increasing.
Part of the government response to the protests was a reduction in import taxes on foods including rice, flour, and fish.
For example, one 24-year-old with a car moved to Washington, D.C., for work purposes but did not take her car, and she explained: I don't need (my car).
REPowerEU On October 20, 2025, the Council of the European Union agreed on its negotiating position for a regulation under the REPowerEU roadmap to phase out Russian gas (pipeline and LNG).
Most of the new continent is uninhabitable due to thin air, but the former ocean floor has sufficient air pressure for human life.
Problem In September 2021, Great Britain suffered a fuel supply shortage for a few weeks after news reports of an ongoing lack of HGV drivers spurred panic buying of fuel.
In June 2008 the FAO hosted a High-Level Conference on World Food Security, in which $1.2 billion in food aid was committed for the 75 million people in 60 countries hardest hit by rising food prices.
He argued in 2004 that production is determined by demand as well as geology, and that fluctuations in oil supply are due to political and economic effects as well as the physical processes of exploration, discovery and production.
In an interview with developer Joe Halper, Kaos had stated that 32-player multiplayer would be supported for the console version.
Coup d'état The prime minister, who was selected by the Shah and approved by the Majlis, was overthrown on 19 August 1953, following a coup d'état orchestrated by the United Kingdom and the United States.
During the assault scene, the pressure from her screaming caused the blood vessels in her eyes to burst.
US oil production The charts below gives an example of the application of the Hubbert Linearization technique in the case of the US Lower-48 oil production.
The Ministry of Fuel and Power was created on 11 June 1942 from functions separated from the Board of Trade.
On February 2, 2000, a bill was on the Senate agenda that looked as if it might end up in a tie, requiring the vice president to cast the tie breaking vote.
According to Naudé economic stagnation makes societies less innovative and less resilient, which hinders the timely development of the technological and organizational innovations needed to prevent ecological overshoot and tackle climate change.
Background In the United Kingdom, tax on fuel for road use is made up of two elements—fuel duty and value added tax (VAT).
By including a manual transmission, short-range EVs can obtain both better performance and greater efficiency than the single-speed EVs developed by major manufacturers.
The industry has worked closely with regulators across a number of countries to establish safety protocols and to ensure that annual vehicle inspection tests on electric conversions are conducted in the same way that any other electric vehicle would be.
Agreement raises posted prices of oil delivered to Mediterranean from $2.55 to $3.45 per barrel; provides for a 2.5 percent annual price increase plus inflation allowance; raises tax rate from a range of 50-58 percent to 60 percent of posted price.
Typically, however, the vice president flies in military aircraft that are under the command of the Air Mobility Command's 89th Airlift Wing, based at Joint Base Andrews in Prince George's County, Maryland.
Being lighter than the water-saturated rocks below the water table, the oil and gas are driven by buoyancy up through aquifer pathways towards Earth's surface over time.
It trains and supports people involved with the initiatives as well as disseminating the concepts of transition towns.
Reserves growth also commonly occurs in previously existing fields, as the characteristics of the reservoir become better understood, as fields are extended laterally, or new oil and gas reservoirs are found in existing fields.
Despite being an oil exporting country and Africa's biggest oil producer, Nigeria imports almost all of its fuel since its refineries fail to cover the country's needs.
After only nine months, the spike had subsided, although the Kuwaiti oil fires set by retreating Iraqi forces were not completely extinguished until November 1991, and it took years for the two countries' combined production to regain its former level.
In the United States, Europe and Japan, oil consumption had fallen 13% from 1979 to 1981, due to "in part, in reaction to the very large increases in oil prices by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil exporters", continuing a trend begun during the 1973 price increases.
This led the Australian energy market operator AEMO to temporarily suspend operation of the east coast electricity market for the first time since its inception, and take direct control of generation and dispatch.
By 1986, daily worldwide demand for oil dropped by 5 million barrels but, non-OPEC production rose by an even-larger amount.
The Civil Aeronautics Board said fuel surcharges for passenger and cargo flights would increase to Level 19 for April 16–30, 2026, from Level 8 earlier in the month due to rising fuel costs.
Russia's foreign ministry blamed the United States for Europe's energy crisis, by pushing European leaders towards a "suicidal" step of cutting economic and energy cooperation with Moscow, which had been a reliable energy supplier to Europe since Soviet times.
CH4 + ½ O2 → 2 H2 + CO (2n+1) H2 + nCO → CnH(2n+2) + n H2O Serpentinites are ideal rocks to host this process as they are formed from peridotites and dunites, rocks which contain greater than 80% olivine and usually a percentage of Fe-Ti spinel minerals.
Normally, the dam can supply up to 1,000 megawatts (MW), but the dam's output was only 200 MW on this day.
Justine Clarke as Anna Goanna, the child who first tells Max that Savannah and the others have escaped into the Wasteland to try to make it to Bartertown.
For example, in Ghana dumsor describes the widespread expectations for intermittent unexpected power outages due to rolling blackouts.
Qatari reserve categories With the publication of the 2020 corporate bond prospectus Qatar Energy introduced the term Confirmed Reserves for its North Field gas reserves.
The insulation reduces heat flow into the stored nitrogen; this is necessary because heat from the surrounding environment boils the liquid, which then transitions to a gaseous state.
This move put immediate economic pressure on Slovakia, which relied on the pipeline for a significant portion of its gas supply and earned an estimated hundreds of millions of euros annually in transit fees from the gas flowing onward to other European destinations.
The rest of the world The oil crisis of 1973 also had similarly large negative effects on other countries that relied heavily on imported oil, such as France, Sweden, Japan, Finland, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Denmark.
In Transnistria, a breakaway region of Moldova, more than 51 families are without gas and 1,500 apartments without heating after the gas supply via Ukraine was interrupted, the authorities in Tiraspol announced.
Greenpeace and ReCommon criticized the decision in a statement, stating that dismissing the lawsuit could potentially prevent future climate litigation in Italy, while standing in contrast to the outcome of the KlimaSeniorinnen Schweiz case.
With the embargo in place, many developed countries altered their policies regarding the Arab-Israeli conflict.
The program was an attempt to depict what would happen if the highly oil-dependent country was suddenly faced with gasoline costing upwards of $7 to $8 per gallon (as opposed to the national average of around $2 per gallon when the show first aired).
References External links Varanus Island Pipeline Incident Apache Energy Media Releases National Offshore Petroleum Safety Authority Varanus Island Pipeline Incident Department of Mines & Petroleum Senate Inquiry Federal Senate
To diagnose the fault, Basslink contracted a range of specialist companies, including cable joiners from Italy and the submarine cable laying ship, Ile De Re.
With less centrifugal force generated by Earth's rotation, the equatorial bulge begins to disappear, and water starts moving towards the poles.
Consequently, Slovakia utilized its existing interconnections with Austria, the Czech Republic, and Poland, all of which had diversified their supplies with liquefied natural gas (LNG) and gas from Norway and Azerbaijan.
Energy Information Administration and USGS 2000 reports The United States Energy Information Administration projects (as of 2006) world consumption of oil to increase to 98.3 million barrels per day (15.63×10^6 m3/d) in 2015 and 118 million barrels per day (18.8×10^6 m3/d) in 2030.
Coal, which is still accessible, briefly becomes the main source of fuel, but quickly faces shortages.
The United Kingdom returned to the same market level by May 1987, but this full recovery lasted for only a few months and ended with the Black Monday crash of 1987.
The plan sets a legally binding prohibition on new Russian gas contracts from January 1, 2026, with existing long-term contracts allowed to run until January 1, 2028.
Discovered in 1979, the field played a key role in boosting the country's oil production to 250,000 barrels per day at the time.
Energy use Concern of change of weather conditions and potential increased energy usage was noted in March with the Minister for Energy Matthew Groom calling for sensible energy usage.
To compensate for falling revenue from falling exports, Russia increased the Gazprom domestic gas price by 8.5% in December 2022 and another 8% on 1 July 2023.
These tools must be transparent yet safe to avoid hijacking and interference with other ships or transport, while also being low-cost for most operators to deploy and maintain.
Cultural references The Hong Kong TVB series The Greed of Man storyline revolves around the market crash.
It took charge of coal production, allocation of supplies of fuels, control of energy prices and petrol rationing during World War II.
Of Colombia's 1,024 municipalities, 1,000 declined to change time zones and took months to come into effect.
Today, unconventional reservoirs include basin-centered gas, shale gas, coalbed methane (CBM), gas hydrates, tar sands, light tight oil and oil shale, mostly from North America.
Economic sanctions over the past two decades have hindered foreign investment in Iran’s energy sector, limiting the development of gas production capacity and power plants.
In 2014, Turner concluded that "preparing for a collapsing global system could be even more important than trying to avoid collapse." Another 2014 study from the University of Melbourne confirmed that data closely tracked the World3 BAU model.
On 3 January 2025, Gilberto Pichetto Fratin mentioned the European Union must ellobrate its price cap on gas and increase then to 60euro megawatt hour, so as to prevent from sudden energy price shock.
The government also encouraged the use of alternative fuels like Compressed natural gas and Liquefied petroleum gas.
Power shortages In the winter of 2024 Iran experienced its most severe energy crisis in decades, with frequent power outages and disruptions to natural gas supplies.
The group's mandate covers strategic oversight of supply chain resilience, evaluation of current supply conditions, and whole-of-government planning for potential market volatility.
Brent fell below $100 a barrel after comments by Trump that suggested the war would end soon, but then jumped almost 8 percent to $109.03.
Despite sanctions against the Russian Federation, SK signed a 3 trillion ($2.25 billion) deal with a Russian state-run nuclear energy company to provide components for Egypt's first nuclear power plant, although it made an awful impression on its Western allies.
The Venezuelan economy contracted and inflation levels (consumer price inflation) rose, remaining between 6 and 12% from 1982 to 1986.
These declarations eliminated certain size and weight restrictions on vehicles carrying gasoline, and the hours during which they are allowed to deliver.
Point of Use EROI expands the calculation to include the cost of refining and transporting the fuel during the refining process.
He took almost three months to write the song "Amma Thale", while all it took to write the song "Maaralente" was 90 minutes.
issued a DVD on 7 June 2005 and, as Cyber Wars, New Line Home Entertainment released the film on region 1 DVD on 11 April 2006.
Premise In 1985, Miami is kept safe under the watchful eye of Kung Fury and his Thundercops, the ultimate police force assembled from across history to defeat the villainous Kung Führer, Adolf Hitler.
Ji-man and Jung-ho see Jun-yeong approach Na-mi's building but do not recognise him and let him leave.
Plot Prabhu Shankar is a happy-go-lucky middle-class man who spends time playing carrom in the streets with his friends Sathish and Kumar among others.
Urumees forgives them and is thankful for returning his daughter, and offers them the three lakh rupees as a reward, telling them that they do not have to stay at the police station for more than an hour.
Pictures releasing the film on May 25, 2012 under its distribution deal with Alcon; FilmNation Entertainment sold rights to other international territories.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 60% based on 15 reviews.
Release Innocent Prey was not released until 9 August 1991 when it was given a VHS release in the United States by Intermedia Video.
Nada and Frank are cornered in an alley, but Frank activates an alien wristwatch, opening a portal to the alien's spaceport on Earth under Cable 54, an alien-run news network.
The film recounts his efforts at the White Sands Proving Ground in New Mexico and at the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama developing missiles for the U.S.
After seeing Reed being experimented on, Mizuki assaults Balcus and takes the Control Metal, threatening to throw it into a disposal chamber.
The responsibility of censorship proves bearable for Lyra, whom her co-workers, as well as her boss Simon, observe as a cold person unfazed by the disturbing imagery she sees on a daily basis.
Eric Bana stars as Bruce Banner and Hulk, alongside Jennifer Connelly, Sam Elliott, Josh Lucas, and Nick Nolte.
Charles Champlin of the Los Angeles Times called it "the kind of conspiratorial caper you like for its continual surprises or hate for its escalating confusions ...
After delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Tenet was released in the United Kingdom on August 26, 2020, and in the United States on September 3, 2020.
The Landlord confronts Ying-ru, who says that she cannot accept a life without change or possibility.
In the middle of their celebration, they hear chanting outside the RV and find themselves surrounded by cult members wearing black robes with hoods, including Sheriff Taylor and the couple with whom they had dinner.
The then Federal Minister of the Interior, Friedrich Zimmermann, is also included with a brief statement.
With that much money at stake, all three men (as well as J-Ron, their arrogant teammate from the high school football team, and the fourth person in on the bet) are eager to find a sexy woman with an evening to spare.
Yim Si-wan as Oh Jun-yeong/Woo Jun-yeong A man approaches Nami after accidentally picking up her smartphone.
Plot Lynch (Gary Oldman), an emotionless food connoisseur, stops a thief who stole a phone from Mimi (Elena Anaya) in a railway station.
Entertainment Tonight also visited the set during the making of the film, airing a segment in August 1989.
The weekend gross of this film in its first eleven weeks was as follows: Overseas, the film grossed ₩781,495,500 (US$713,790) in South Korea, and $2,169,164 in Spain, Hong Kong, and Thailand.
Future Shock is a 1972 American short documentary film directed by Alex Grasshoff and narrated by Orson Welles.
They suffer the theft of the only car they have, and their new car is prone to going completely out of his control...The film follows Franco and Ciccio, two bumbling driving instructors who somehow manage to teach people how to drive and get their license (Patente B) despite their incompetence.
(But who gave you your license?) is a 1970 Italian comedy film directed by Nando Cicero starring the comic duo Franco and Ciccio.
The website's consensus reads: "Do not enter." David Ehrlich of IndieWire gave the film a "D−" and wrote: "Hades might boast some decent star power, but there isn't a celebrity in the world who could save this bargain bin nonsense from feeling like a bootlegged ripoff of its own franchise.
The film was loosely inspired by an experience Smosh cast member Olivia Sui had in 2022, when she anonymously received a series of Shrek memes AirDropped to her phone while on a date with her boyfriend Sam Lerner.
"Bukalah Matamu" is the first single released from the official soundtrack, released on YouTube and all streaming platforms on 20 September 2019.
Christoph Waltz replaced Thornton in the lead role, and the late Zanuck's son Dean replaced him as producer.
Ross and Rick are both sentenced to prison, where Ross passes Rick by chance one day and stares after him in disbelief.
Oppenheimer became both the highest-grossing and longest Best Picture winning film since 2003's The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.
Cate Blanchett portrays a senior CIA agent who tries to track down and eliminate the girl and her father.
The film was eventually released on December 8, 2023, and besides being digitally remastered, was shorter than the original theatrical cut by around 50 minutes.
The Deserter's Wife (French: La femme du déserteur) is a 1991 French-Israeli co-production dramatic independent underground art film directed by Michal Bat-Adam.
"Collapsing the Interior/Exterior Distinction: Surveillance, Spectacle, and Suspense in Popular Cinema".
It also details exhibits by many people, including George Westinghouse, Nikola Tesla and Thomas Edison.
Bombshell: The Hedy Lamarr Story (referred to onscreen as simply Bombshell) is a 2017 American biographical documentary film directed, written and co-edited by Alexandra Dean, about the life of actress and inventor Hedy Lamarr.
Replying to the ban demands, John Abraham said while he respects the opinions of everyone, no one is above the Censor board and creativity should not be held at gun point.
After modifying the Jaguar C-X75 for the film, Williams F1 carried the 007 logo on their cars at the 2015 Mexican Grand Prix, with the team playing host to the cast and crew ahead of the Mexican premiere of the film.
Françoise's "exercise robot", Greg, arrives outside and Nestor lets him in without allowing the humans out.
The two continue to communicate across space using the e-mail facilities on their mobile telephones.
The film, which today is in the public domain and freely available for viewing at various online sources, was restored by the Academy Film Archive in 2018.
Based on the successful 1956 Broadway production of the same name by Betty Comden, Adolph Green and Jule Styne, the film focuses on Ella Peterson, based on the life of Mary Printz, who works in the basement office of a telephone answering service.
Werker), He Walked by Night, when the police are inspecting the contents of a murder suspect's trunk.
Plot Michi Kudo, newly moved to Tokyo, works at a plant shop with Junko Sasano, Toshio Yabe, and Taguchi, who has been missing for several days while working on a computer disk for the shop's sales.
Jaydeep had married Neha for her wealth, and concocted the murder plan to frame Neha and gain unfettered access to her wealth.
However, the film received only limited release in North America (with most of its fanbase created via the circulation of bootleg DVDs imported from Asia) until Miramax released it on DVD in late 2003.
Plot After writing a series of articles about a pedophilia scandal, the journalist Ji-won often receives threatening calls on her cell phone.
which the extra weight proves to be just enough to cause it to collapse, along with the fox, who falls to his death.
Produced, written, and directed by Wade Williams and released by his distribution company, Englewood Entertainment, it was released on VHS and in 1998 on DVD.
Background Actress Fanny Ardant and cinematographer Fabio Conversi got to know each other while filming Margarethe von Trotta's Love and Fear during 1988.
Apart from Antony, the film marks the return of actor Kannan of Bharathiraja's Kadhal Oviyam (1982) in an important role and Trupthi Ravindra in her debut.
Sean and Han's crew restore a 1967 Ford Mustang Fastback that Sean's father recovered and tune it to drift specifications, making use of the engine and other components from the wrecked S15.
Einstein tells the humans that Monique recorded a final message for them, asking that they remain human.
She moves into Gwen's home, a spacious Victorian property owned by the wealthy Phillip, who resides in a nearby guesthouse.
It is the direct sequel to Underworld: Evolution (2006) and the fourth installment in the Underworld film series.
In the Netflix series The Umbrella Academy, season 1 episode 3, a trunk shot is seen when the two hitmen open the car to reveal Klaus in the trunk.
As he lavishes a key witness against a lot of money and is hounded by a hitman (called the Cleaner), he not only sucks the FBI's anger, but also the crime syndicate Icarus, who also turns the Cleaner on his best friend, the FBI agent Sonny begin.
The Chase is a 1994 American action comedy film written and directed by Adam Rifkin and starring Charlie Sheen and Kristy Swanson.
Jackal Jayamalini Silk Smitha Telephone Satyanarayana Dham Prakashi Rao Babu Rao Jagga Rao Babu Music Music: K.
Regarding the premise of dinosaurs against the military, Black wrote that the filmmakers "somehow managed to make it boring".
However, before they can harm him further, Harlock enters the saloon and saves Tetsuro by overpowering the thug and forcing him to drink milk, which kills him by rusting him from the inside.
While Erik tries to find out why he has been brought back to life in the first place, the financial institute comptroller (Antti Aro) complains to Laura about the expenses caused by Erik and at the same time asks her the same question.
They purchase a shotgun and head towards Amarillo while being spied on by a steadily increasing number of cultists who seem to be networked throughout numerous small Texas towns.
External links The Big Bounce is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive The Big Bounce at IMDb
At the repair shop, a masked Jun-yeong fixes Na-mi's broken phone screen and gets the password from her in order to install spyware on her phone and clone it.
You can take our word for it: 'Bells Are Ringing' owes more to Miss Holliday than to its authors, its director (Vincent Minnelli), or even to Alexander Graham Bell." Awards and nominations Comden and Green won the Writers Guild of America award for Best American Musical.
After wrapping up the shoot on 22 November, the team headed to Ahmedabad and Surat for the fourth schedule.
At the 47th César Awards, it was nominated for four awards, including Best Director for Ducournau and Most Promising Actress for Rousselle.
As of February 2016, the film has grossed in Japan ($32.7 million), Hong Kong ($799,043), Italy ($1,295,875), South Korea ($696,169), Taiwan ($108,560), United Arab Emirates ($69,349), Vietnam ($350,706).
He found writing the script a challenge, as he had to create the film's plot as well as give specific reasons for each window that opened and why the point of view would shift between the characters.
He's the toughest guy I've met." Carpenter was impressed with Keith David's performance in The Thing and needed someone "who wouldn't be a traditional sidekick but could hold his own." To this end, Carpenter wrote the role of Frank specifically for David.
The filmmakers visit a "rehab camp" for young people with technology addiction outside Seattle and also meet with Danny Bowman, Great Britain's first diagnosed "selfie addict".
As the car approaches it is seen to contain a male driver and three high-spirited female passengers waving handkerchiefs towards the camera.
Smith tortures Litvenko under the supervision of Syndicate director Antoine Le Clerq, but Litvenko refuses to reopen the Agent program.
Finally the workers gain control over the robots with their own remote control device, which they had covertly assembled before, making necessary measurements on the robot assembling factory and researching the Ripple's prototype robot "Micron", whom he left damaged at his home.
The score was composed to follow Max Renn's descent into video hallucinations, starting out with dramatic orchestral music that increasingly incorporates, and eventually emphasizes, electronic instrumentation.
Blackhat was a box-office bomb, opening at number 11 and earning only $1.7 million on its opening day.
Accolades Berry earned a Blockbuster Entertainment Award for Favorite Actress – Adventure/Drama for her performance in the film in 1997.
Stephen Falken was inspired by and named after Stephen Hawking; John Lennon was interested in playing the role, but was murdered in New York while the script was in development.
Awkwafina as Ming Fleetfoot: A new Jumanji player character and Spencer's new avatar, who later becomes Eddie's avatar.
Killian, who experiences hallucinations that Ouelet dismisses as glitches, is troubled as she doesn't clearly remember her past.
Al tells her how Haskell died, but she blackmails him by threatening to turn him over to the police.
They tell Carly that she bears a striking resemblance to Naomi Singer, the previous tenant of her apartment who fell to her death from her balcony.
Jürgen is the son of a German officer who has been killed in action, and hopes to live up to his father's example.
They've been a huge inspiration for Strange World." The miracle plant Pando is named after a forest in Utah in America.
They are confronted by Smith, who is revealed to have surgically implanted subdermal titanium body armor, making him impervious to gunshots.
On the day that two of Chevalier's snuff films are to be played in court, the public gallery is forced to leave.
Complicating matters further, a parallel comedy unfolds on the same route when small-time thief Nelluru Peddareddy a.k.a.
Allegations about Robert Evans's behavior In her 2021 memoir The Beauty of Living Twice, Stone stated—without naming names—that a producer had once told her to sleep with a costar in a film.
Enraged with this knowledge, Shivam sends men to kill Siddharth, whom Rao shields, who gets caught in the crossfire and injured in the process.
Meanwhile, Jane continues her romance with Tom, and after a date, invites him into her home, where they have sex.
In the middle of the night, Paul finds Samantha staring at the window, looking at her father, and he deactivates her.
The robots and backgrounds were drawn based on computer-generated 3D models, while the dogs and wolves were drawn by hand.
Upon his release, Croker stays at the Royal Lancaster Hotel in Bayswater, London, where he celebrates with what is implied to be an orgy; his room became a favourite haunt of rock stars after the release of the film.
These were abandoned in the film crew's storage unit in Turin when filming concluded and their subsequent history is unknown.
Amy Nicholson of LA Weekly gave the film a B+, saying "Bird has made a film that every child should see.
After a night filled with nightmares, Sandra begins to wander around the desert near the Monolith car.
Kung Fury 2 is an unfinished martial arts comedy film directed by David Sandberg, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Tyler Burton Smith.
Calling it a "supposed family comedy...woefully devoid of laughs," Marsh concluded it fell just short of "asking audiences point blank to subscribe to HBO Max", and was ultimately "a vacuous and cynical experience that shoots far wide of the mark".
After a while of waiting, Brandon and Karina leave to retrieve keys for Brandon's car, while Marcus and Kareem search for Shawn.
Goddard, Wyatt, Bolton, and Meachum are arrested by Gamble, while Adam is released for contributing to the FBI's investigation.
In terms of total earnings, its largest markets are China ($18.7 million), France ($15.1 million), followed by Brazil ($6.9 million), the U.K.
Marcus and Anna find Jody and Cal, however they are soon attacked by the killer who murders Anna, while the others flee into Brandon and Karina's room.
The film was then released in Belgium on 9 August 2017 by Belga Films and in France on 16 August 2017 by Océan Films.
An energy source traveling through space strikes Mir, killing the cosmonauts and beaming itself down to Volkov.
The Pod Generation is a 2023 science fiction romantic comedy film written and directed by Sophie Barthes.
Plot Siddharth is a hacker who leads a delightful life, which includes his father, Rao, & his mother.
Hodges that these dinosaurs have been genetically rebuilt and are now the last three "carnosaurs" still in existence.
headquarters, allowing Cero to control its electronics, forcing the pillar heads to launch a protocol to evacuate to a nearby island.
At school, Oliver is bullied by his classmates due to his condition, leading to loneliness and a desire for friendship.
There is a deadly side of the Rainmaker technology - its byproduct is a toxic and radioactive aerosol which gathers in the atmosphere and can generate toxic rain which kills every living thing.
The plot focuses on the entanglement between various corporations vying for the financial control of an interactive 3-D hentai company, resulting in a power struggle that culminates in violence and espionage.
The soundtrack album was released on 11 July 2010 in a function held at HITEX convention hall, Madhapur, Hyderabad.
It is not the masterpiece its defenders claim, nor is it the completely self-indulgent folly described by its critics.
Plot Fateh Singh, an ex-special ops officer, lives a peaceful life as a dairy farming supervisor in Punjab until a village girl, Nimrit Kaur, falls prey to a cybercrime syndicate headed by Raza and Satya Prakash.
The duck, however, proves to be too much for the fox to handle, as he is constantly outsmarted and all his plans to capture him backfire at every turn.
Sator's estranged wife Kat Barton is an art appraiser who authenticated a Goya forged by her friend Arepo.
Bhairavudu goes on live television with a mask covering his face and reveals he has killed 23 people and hidden their corpses in 23 pillars of a metro bridge, and threatens the citizens to leave his brother unscathed.
Although he warns Hanna that a confrontation with Marissa will be fatal for either her or Marissa, he leaves the final decision to her and she activates the beacon.
James Mottram of The South China Morning Post wrote: "sweet, heart-warming and frighteningly prescient, Ron's Gone Wrong is one of the best animated films in recent memory".
David Rooney of Variety said Simpson's direction was "executed in the style of early David Fincher" and said Evans' performance was "gripping".
When C-Systems' test reactor malfunctions, Paul, the scientists and the prisoners all depart, allowing Eddie to furtively "fix" the system that night.
Norberg tells Ted that he plans to experiment on an ape’s head, keeping it alive, with a clear plastic dome over its cranium so that he can observe its brain function, then transfer what he learns to humans.
This is the third among Rahman's only three straight Telugu films that are not remakes or bilinguals.
Critical response Lav Diaz, writing for the Manila Standard, gave Bobo Cop a mildly positive review.
The film stars Siddharth, Lakshmi Menon and Bobby Simha, with Karunakaran and Aadukalam Naren in pivotal roles.
In custody, Niranjan manages to sell the drive containing the secret information for ₹25 crore (US$3.0 million) to Reddy's secretary.
As the members of the summit are taken hostage, Sutton and Secret Service Agent Manny Ruiz slip away with UK Prime Minister Oliver Everett, head of the International Monetary Fund Elena Romano, and First Lady of South Korea Han Minh-Seo, while Derek rescues his children and evades capture.
Release The Hearse opened in Kansas City, Missouri on March 21, 1980, followed by a release in Kennewick, Washington on March 26, 1980.
Justice and his brothers Reggie and Gaylord were all portrayed by Jackie Gleason; Reggie was a Canadian version of Reginald Van Gleason III, a popular character from Gleason's television show.
At the 2021 Toronto International Film Festival, the film won the People's Choice Award for Midnight Madness.
Looking for answers, Rachel returns to Moesko Island, finding evidence of Samara's biological mother Evelyn, who tried to drown her as an infant.
The caller offers to "make him stop" and in Stuart's confusion, he inadvertently asks for this; the caller shoots Leon dead.
They meet tour guide Uri and are joined by a backpacking couple, Norwegian Zoe and Australian Michael.
While they admitted the film felt like an advertisement for HBO Max, they praised the creative use of the characters and the acting, though they took issue with outdated references.
Globetrotting Youngster) is a 1973 Indian Tamil-language science fiction film directed and co-produced by M.
Rekonek (sometimes stylized as ReKonek) is a 2025 Philippine family drama film directed by Jade Castro under the production of Reality MM Studios and The Th3rd Floor Studios.
Little do they know that their landlord, a creepy and voyeuristic man named Gerald, has installed 13 hidden cameras throughout the house, which he uses to watch their every move.
Cast Production Development “The main idea of the movie is a confrontation between magic and the technical progress.
Jeevi of Idlebrain.com gave the film a rating of 2.75/5 and said that "The movie looks very artificial except a few scenes where the love of Naresh towards his mother is projected".
Cast Production During a European tour promoting City Lights, Chaplin got the inspiration for Modern Times from both the lamentable conditions of the continent through the Great Depression, along with a conversation with Mahatma Gandhi in which they discussed modern technology.
In the film, a man hires contract killers and tasks them with killing his brother-in-law, who he resents.
Soundtrack and score The soundtrack for the film features various tracks by Combichrist, Encephalon and Tribal Machine, while the score was composed by Scott Glasgow with additional music by Ronan Harris of VNV Nation.
The police fire upon Stuart, while a SWAT team breaks into the room that the caller was tracked to, only to find a rifle and a man's corpse.
A missed opportunity." Arjun Menon of The Indian Express gave 2/5 stars and wrote "Shakthi Thirumagan is not a graceful, patient takedown of power politics because it doesn't want to risk alienating audiences with half informed build ups and suggestive storytelling.
Spielberg first asked Sydney Pollack to direct, who got Kurt Luedtke to draft the first version of the adaptation but then bowed out; Ronald Bass was brought in by Kathleen Kennedy and Spielberg to work on the script, but they were unsatisfied with the results.
The sole survivor of a shipwreck is placed with the other patients, but he soon demonstrates abilities as a healer and starts being viewed as a miracle worker.
Charles Bramesco wrote in Vulture, "Their documentary forms a sharp image of the thornier side to investigative journalism".
Lisberger and Kushner subsequently presented their storyboards and computer animation samples to major studios—including Warner Bros., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, and Columbia Pictures—all of which declined to finance the project.
The soundtrack of the film, titled Summer Wars Original Soundtrack (「サマーウォーズ」 オリジナル・サウンドトラック, Samā Wōzu Orijinaru Saundotorakku), was released by VAP on July 9, 2009.
It then delves into Ross's background, portraying him as a well-educated aspiring entrepreneur living in Austin, Texas.
smuggling a toxin into the country would probably be easier and just as effective as hijacking) that nonetheless managed to be entertaining.
Haley is evacuated by helicopter beyond the canyon, and knowing that Nic has mastered the use of his legs, Damon attempts to discourage Nic, saying "You can't reach her".
He uses the hostages' voices and likenesses to create deepfake videos supporting his claims, leaking the doctored footage to the press, and the surge in crypto investment sends the value of his own wallet soaring.
The illusory drop had been matte-painted, and Chaplin was never in actual danger while filming this scene — in reality, he skated on a plain floor, with a ledge for him to discern when to stop.
In an interview with The Hindu, Karthik said that Jigarthanda was intended to be his directorial debut and that he incorporated some of his experiences in the film during his life at Madurai.
Megat Zahrin Megat Hisham as Trez, a former Numeros agent wielding cybernetic gauntlets who now works alongside Rizwan.
In March 2023, Roadside Attractions and Vertical Entertainment acquired North America rights and released the film in limited cinemas on 11 August 2023.
Through a series of manipulations, Ella introduces the playwright to the wishful actor and composer, who now have a chance to advance their career aspirations by contributing to The Midas Touch.
Fassbender, Schwarzenegger, and Hasselhoff were cast by February 2018, and principal photography took place from July to September 2019.
Cast Michele Valley as Woman Takis Spiridakis as Guard Liana Hatzi as Drunkard Nikos Hatzis as Tramp V.
Cast Production The film was shot in the summer of 1983 in Sydney, Australia and Dallas, Texas, under the title of Voyeur.
The film is a remake of the 2000 Hindi film Hera Pheri by Priyadarshan which itself was based on Siddique–Lal's 1989 Malayalam film Ramji Rao Speaking.
Plot In the summer of 2014, Sophie Kessler, a waitress and single mother, who lives with her diabetic mother Kristin and her son Garret in Iowa, discovers that her son is vomiting in his sleep.
In the safe house, Tony and Patty undergo a spy training program while Terrence and Nora are captured by Rey.
According to the director Žiga Virc, the intention of the film was to "tell the symbolic story of the rise and fall of Yugoslavia", as well inviting the viewer to decide what is real and what fiction.
The two began directing side by side before splitting up into separate units with Wang responsible for handling the majority of the film’s action scenes.
The American and Soviet governments develop a three-year plan to replace all detonation triggers with undetectable fakes.
Cero confronts Rizwan's group, revealing that he begun detonating Cyberaya's central reactor, which would cause a chain explosion with the nearby underwater Azurium reserves, threatening the city unbeknownst to Cyberjaya's governors who would be hiding in the island bunker.
Ending According to a "Making Of" documentary, producer Deeley was unsatisfied with the four written endings and conceived the current ending as a literal cliffhanger appropriate to an action film which left an opportunity for a sequel.
The dealership manager (played by Daniel Benzali) is a bald-headed bully who has no qualms about screwing the customer.
Meba attacks Aron and Nobita tries to help, but was accidentally teleported inside the pirates's ship due to the belt on Meba's waist fell against him, Shizuka then fights and defeats Meba, while Gian also defeats Ogon.
The first single titled "Jai Ganesha" was released on 18 September 2023 on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi.
Long presumed a lost film, the Library of Congress acquired a 35mm nitrate print in 2025, restored for public release in February 2026.
Cast Production Two characters from the novel on which the film was based were merged for the film: "Ingrid Macht" and "Agnes Everleigh" became "Ingrid Everleigh".
Pictures, Spielberg, and Eastwood all preferred their draft with LaGravenese, Beresford dropped out and Eastwood asked to direct the film and co-produce it with his production company Malpaso Productions to have more control over the movie and make the project move forward.
Hathaway manipulates the update system on Jessup's phone GPS that tracks his location, allowing him to follow his own lead and arrange a meeting with the hacker's partner at a restaurant.
He discovered Bitcoin in 2011, and from there he has been fascinated by anything that has to do with it.
In the process, Jake discovers the illicit download and Helen punishes Ozzie, making him take Melissa to her private school Shady Glen.
Yoshihiro Hagiwara produced the DVD release, and the voice actors were Chihiro Suzuki and Sumi Mutoh.
After another wild encounter, Searcher and Jaeger finally have a heart-to-heart talk and realize that they do respect each other's goals in life.
Spielberg characterized the story as "50% character and 50% very complicated storytelling with layers and layers of murder mystery and plot".
Jones admits that it does not matter if ED-209 works, because they have contracts to provide spare parts for years.
Cognizant that he will be arrested for his involvement once Ross is captured, Rick extorts Ross for hundreds of thousands of dollars by posing as both a hacker and hitman offering to dispose of said hacker, intent on providing for his family while he is in prison.
Release Distribution rights to the film were acquired by Zeitgeist Films and Kino Lorber in August 2017.
Catherine Deneuve and Isabella Rossellini did screen tests to play Francesca, but despite Spielberg's initial reluctance, Eastwood had advocated Meryl Streep for the role from the beginning.
It was released theatrically on December 25, 2022 as an entry to the 2022 Metro Manila Film Festival.
The title was revealed to be Spy Kids: Armageddon, which was the original name for the previous film installment, Spy Kids: All the Time in the World (2011).
Soundtrack The music score is composed by the lead composer, Azri Yunus, assisted by the assistant composer, Hakim Kamal.
The Leeds International Film Festival showed the film on November 20, 2009, and the English dubbed version of the film premiered at the New York International Children's Film Festival on November 20, 2010.
She finds herself falling for him, only to discover that he is none other than Sandeep Anand himself.
In June 1989, Dominique Vignet, together with the Swiss millionaire Francis von Buren, agreed to invest 30 million francs based on the rushes filmed the previous year.
Beginning of the End is generally known for its "atrocious" special effects, "and yet," writes reviewer Bill Warren, "there is something almost compellingly watchable about this goofy little movie".
The crew returned to the river less than a week later to film scenes solely set on Westminster Bridge.
However, in theatres in the U.S., it was shown in black-and-white, allegedly to 'save money duplicating prints'.
Risking his loyalty to MATA, Ejen Ali will now embarks his thrilling chase to unravel those mysterious links.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 41% of 76 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 5.6/10.
The complaints prompted several rounds of allegation, apology, rebuttal, and edits to the podcast, as well as commentary in various sources such as the public radio newspaper Current.
Guest appearances The show has regularly interviewed and has guest appearances of business executives, founders, and celebrities.
The hosts and guests play the game ahead of the episode, then talk about the experience, the community, and the context surrounding the game.
Halvorson founded Brain Traffic, a content strategy consultancy, in 2001, which pivoted to content strategy as a service in 2007.
Recognition and awards In 2012, iTunes Australia named Download This Show the best new podcast, and it has won Best Audio Program at the Australian IT Journalism Awards ("The Lizzies") many times.
Episodes Series 1 (2016–2017) Each of the nine-minute long programmes introduces the story of a product or invention that revolutionised the modern world.
He has also worked on the foundations of quantum mechanics, especially the many-worlds interpretation, including a derivation of the Born rule for probabilities.
The process involves recordings made by each presenter on their local machine in FLAC format using the software Audio Recorder.
He founded The Climate Corporation and served as its chief executive, overseeing its $1.1 billion sale to Monsanto in 2013, the first unicorn transaction in the emerging agricultural technology sector.
The show attempts to approach broad, difficult topics such as "time" and "morality" in an accessible and light-hearted manner and with a distinctive audio production style.
Leo participated in the chat during commercial breaks and often referred to the chat to give him additional information to assist with some of the callers' questions.
Since January 2009, the Tekzilla set has occupied the space previously used by Internet Superstar, a previous Revision3 show.
The first project by the new company was a documentary podcast ZigZag, which documented the early days of the company itself.
Ezarik was also hired to appear in three commercials for a national TV ad campaign for Mozy, an award-winning online backup and recovery system.
He turned down an invitation to speak at a conference sponsored by the John Templeton Foundation, because he did not want to appear to be supporting a reconciliation between science and religion.
Filmography Film Television Web Awards and nominations See also JenniCam Brooke Brodack Sousveillance List of YouTubers Bibliography Ezarik, Justine; Hargrave, C.
As a developer, he is best known for being chief technology officer for Tumblr and creating Instapaper and Overcast.
Hosts and correspondents Travis View has written extensively for the Washington Post on the subject of QAnon.
Each episode followed Josh and Chuck inside and outside the recording booth, combining the factual information of their podcast with humorous, fictional story lines that align with each podcast topic.
Background In 2014, Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas had a Twitter exchanged that led to some collaborations.
Carroll at IMDb Dark Matter, Dark Energy: The Dark Side of the Universe Archived April 30, 2021, at the Wayback Machine, lectures at The Teaching Company.
Kristina Halvorson (born July 25, 1971) is an American writer, entrepreneur, speaker, podcaster, and expert on the subject of content strategy.
Another recurring topic investigated on Search Engine is the Internet Bill of Rights, a set of universal standards concerning online liberties drafted and spearheaded by the Internet Governance Forum.
Linux Outlaws was a Linux news and technology podcast produced by Sixgun Productions and hosted by Fabian Scherschel and Dan Lynch.
That placed it second behind The Kim Komando Show (with 2.25 million weekly listeners) in the syndicated tech radio field.
Books Clark and Bryant also present two longer and more in-depth audio programs featuring interviews and portions recorded on location available for purchase as audiobooks, which are entitled The Super Stuffed Guide to the Economy and The Super Stuffed Guide to Happiness.
Episodes of Twenty Thousand Hertz have also been featured on the Radiotopia productions 99% Invisible and The Allusionist.
That same year, she initiated the first Content Strategy Consortium and was the keynote speaker at first Content Strategy Forum in Paris.
Before she began hosting Note to Self, Zomorodi was a television reporter for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
Between Season 1 and Season 2, the show's team, led by NPR's VP of Programming Eric Nuzum, Deron Triff and Series Producer Jeff Rogers, overhauled the show.
The theme tune used for each episode is Crazy Words, Crazy Tune by the Savoy Havana band, recorded in 1927 and out of copyright.
However, due to ongoing costs as a result of TWiT.tv's constant expansion, a roadmap for the introduction of podcast and web-based advertising was announced during episode 45 of This WEEK in TECH.
She also did work in robotics engineering at IBM, Morton Thiokol, United Technologies/Pratt & Whitney, Lockheed-Martin, Rolls-Royce, and the US Navy.
It is primarily broadcast on YouTube, X, and Substack, with full episodes available on Apple Podcasts and Spotify.
Media coverage and awards LugRadio received coverage in Linux Format magazine, Linux User and Developer magazine and Linux Magazine as well as online coverage by sites such as Slashdot.
Brownlee was a finalist for Best Podcaster at the 12th Shorty Awards in 2020 for his work on the show.
The podcast won "Tech Podcast of the Year" as well as "Podcast of the Year" at the 2019 Adweek Podcast Awards.
In early 2008, it was reported by a number of Search Engine listeners in China that the CBC had been rendered unavailable.
The show is aimed mainly at beginner digital photographers, though the content is suitable for all levels of photographer.
He was followed by Patrick Norton in August 2007, who worked at Ziff Davis as 'head of podcasts' and host of the IPTV show DL.TV.
In September 2011, Mann launched Roderick on the Line, a weekly conversation with musician/writer John Roderick.
Carroll teamed up with Steven Novella, a neurologist by profession known for his skepticism, and the two argued against the motion.
The members of QAA have attended various QAnon live events, including the first ever QAnon conference, as well as events relating to other subjects of their journalism.
In May 2020, host Dallas Taylor delivered a TED Talk, "What silence can teach you about sound." The talk discussed John Cage's composition 4'33", a topic which had previously been explored in an episode of Twenty Thousand Hertz.
It was announced on July 10, 2007, that Jim Louderback would become the new CEO of the Revision3 Corporation.
Many current interviews are recorded directly from industry and community events such as the KubeCon series, the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage, and the Free and Open Source Software Conference (FrOSCon), reflecting the project's ongoing focus on contemporary open-source and cloud-native technologies.
Nilay Patel () is an American editor and blogger who has been editor-in-chief of technology news website The Verge since 2014.
His work with Linux Journal, and as an advocate of free software and open-source, earned him a Google-O'Reilly Open Source Award for Best Communicator in 2005.
The presenters usually speak in a family-friendly manner about their own work in the past week, discuss community news and upcoming events, talk about command-line tools and respond to listeners' feedback.
They also talk about her transition from print journalism to video, and her famous Flickr photos of food.
The office has a large mural depicting the formation of an idea, a research library, and giant question mark-shaped conference table.
This Week in Tech–casually referred to as TWiT, and briefly known as Revenge of the Screen Savers–is the weekly flagship podcast and namesake of the TWiT.tv network.
She also participated in the fourth season of the series, titled Escape the Night: All-Stars, as the Adventurer.
Security Now was the recipient of the 2007 People's Choice Podcast Awards in the Technology category.
Based on his popular podcasts, Benjamin has been called "the king of Apple talk radio" by Philip Elmer-DeWitt of Fortune magazine and CNN.
Reception and awards Radiolab has been widely acclaimed among listeners and critics alike for its imaginative format and original use of sound design.
The founders of Substack, a newsletter platform launched in 2018, called Thompson a major inspiration for their project.
Before joining Gimlet, Vogt and Goldman hosted a technology and culture podcast called TLDR for WNYC.
The name was inspired by the audience communicating to Zomorodi that they listen to the show because they are interested in the "purposeful use of technology." Zomorodi released a book entitled "Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self" with St.
The podcast offers a subscription called The Lab with which listeners can directly support the production.
She left Marketplace in 2021 to join Launch, a venture capital firm, where she was a podcaster and investor.
He has produced a number of documentaries - some of which have aired on various programs on the CBC.
Awards and recognition Zomorodi has won numerous journalism awards including the New York Press Club Award for Journalism.
Most releases of the show were licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No-Derivatives licence, but shows released after December 2007 are under the Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported licence.
Overview The show's title refers to highest frequency that can be perceived within the human hearing range (without hearing loss).
On May 3, 2012, Discovery Communications announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire Revision3.
Zeis was the editorial director of High Yield content at Future until September 2024, working with brands such as Tom's Guide and TechRadar.
QAnon Anonymous has collaborated with a number of other podcasts, including Knowledge Fight, Boontavista and the Conspirituality Podcast.
The nomination cited its unusual social media presence, including an event where the hosts accepted phone calls from listeners for 48 hours straight.
He has also published a YouTube video series entitled "The Biggest Ideas in the Universe" which provides physics instruction at a popular-science level but with equations and a mathematical basis, rather than mere analogy.
Ezarik was known for her "300-page iPhone bill" which followed the first month of service after the introduction of the first iPhone in 2007.
In the same New York Times interview, Abumrad said, "You're trying to capture the rhythms and the movements, the messiness of the actual experience....
Meanwhile, Current Geek Weekly is a weekly discussion of geek culture stories and the companion podcast to the Current Geek podcasts still produced by Frogpants Studios.
LugRadio was a British podcast on the topic of Linux and events in the free and open source software communities, as well as coverage of technology, digital rights and politics.
After Red Herring folded, he continued to review cutting edge technology, both online and in print, for a Business 2.0 column called What’s Next.
January 10, 2008: On G4TV's Best of CES 2008, Morris joined the G4 crew to talk about some of the best gadgets seen at CES this year.
Discussions revolve around nuclear power as an alternative and potentially carbon-negative energy source.
April 25, 2010: On This Week in Tech (TWiT) episode 245 as a guest with Becky Worley, and Shira Lazar.
Distribution was handed over to Sony Music in April 2021, but the deal with Sony was very short lived.
Since then, More Perfect has not aired any more episodes, although reruns are still occasionally posted in the Radiolab feed.
The Internet and Identity In January 2008, Search Engine began reporting on the controversy between the Internet group "Anonymous" and the Church of Scientology.
After five seasons, on 30 June 2008, LugRadio announced that they would end the show at their convention, LugRadio Live UK 2008.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
In 2016, Zeldman's business association with Happy Cog ended, and he launched an independent design consultancy called Studio Zeldman.
Personal life Mann started treatment for attention deficit disorder in 2008, something which he says helped his focus.
Kim started publishing speculative fiction in 2021 and won the Shirley Jackson Award for You'll Understand When You're a Mom Someday, her second published story.
Personal life Friedberg co-hosts the All-In business and investment podcast with Chamath Palihapitiya, David O.
LugRadio Live LugRadio Live was an annual event organised by the LugRadio team and held in Wolverhampton.
Apple SVPs Eddy Cue and Craig Federighi appeared as guests on a recorded episode published February 12, 2016.
Program History The program aired on Thursdays at 11:30 a.m.(12:00 NT), and was repeated on Tuesdays at 3:30 p.m.(4:00 NT, select markets) on stations which did not air extended CBC Radio One local programs.
Search Engine's theme song is called "Ethiopia Hagere." It was written and performed in a collaborative effort between Ethiopian saxophonist Getatchew Mekurya and punk band The Ex.
Episode 27 ("Chartbreakers") was highlighted for its investigation into the manipulation of the Apple Podcasts Top Charts through a vast industry termed as "dark podcast marketing".
It airs on the National Public Radio "NPR Now" channel at SiriusXM 122, public radio stations both nationally and internationally, and the Internet in a number of podcast syndication outlets podcast.
Waveform: The MKBHD Podcast (also referred to as Waveform or WVFRM) is a technology podcast hosted by American YouTuber Marques Brownlee, alongside Andrew Manganelli and David Imel.
In 2009 they challenged Stephen Colbert to see whose team could raise $100,000 first and they "beat the pants off of" him, reaching that goal in three months.
Mann was one of the hosts on the MacBreak video podcast, and a core host on the MacBreak Weekly audio podcast.
Innovation Crush podcast In 2013, Denson launched Innovation Crush, an interview series focused on the lives and projects of some of the world's most influential innovators.
An annual segment, Email Debt Forgiveness Day, created an annual holiday on April 30 inviting listeners to send responses to old emails no matter how overdue.
Merritt received a BS in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign and pursued graduate work in communications at the University of Texas at Austin.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
Content As continued from All Things Digital, Recode focuses on technology and digital media news, particularly pertaining to the business of Silicon Valley.
It is co-hosted by Travis View (real name: Logan Strain), Julian Feeld, and Jake Rockatansky, alongside Annie Kelly (British correspondent), Liv Agar (Canadian correspondent), Brad Abrahams (Inner Earth correspondent), and Allie Mezei (QAA Legal Analyst).
In October 2013, Monsanto announced that it was acquiring The Climate Corporation for about $1.1 billion.
In July 2016, Dvorak and co-host Adam Curry won the "Best Podcast" Podcast Award for No Agenda, in the News & Politics category.
Phil Schiller and Craig Federighi also appeared on the live episodes of The Talk Show during WWDC 2016 and 2017.
In 2003, Abumrad was given a freelance assignment by WNYC to interview ABC News science reporter Robert Krulwich and the two men discovered they had a lot in common: both were alumni of Oberlin College (though 25 years apart), and both had worked at WBAI before moving on to WNYC and NPR.
In high school he led the environmental club "Students H.O.P.E." (Students Healing Our Planet Earth).
Career Her first journalism job out of college was as a staff writer for the Features section of the Oakland Tribune.
The podcast covers their attempts to obtain funding for their company, ideas for new projects, and discussions by both co-founders about the financial risk they were taking, and the effect of running the startup on their personal lives.
Rich DeMuro later appeared on the show to announce that he would take over in January with a weekly show, recorded on Saturdays, called "Rich On Tech." Laporte appeared on Friday mornings on KFI with Bill Handel, and previously on such shows as Showbiz Tonight, Live with Kelly, and World News Now.
Following a Twenty Thousand Hertz episode about audio deepfakes, host Dallas Taylor was featured in a September 2020 segment of NPR's Here & Now, discussing the topic.
Before recording started for This Week in Tech 268 on October 3, 2010, while discussing the sale of TechCrunch to AOL, Laporte mentioned that his network would "do three to four [million US$]" in advertising revenue for 2010.
Also as a child, he was an avid reader of Uncle John's Bathroom Reader, as mentioned in many podcasts, and he jokingly cites Uncle John's Bathroom Reader as the source of the majority of his knowledge.
After college he pursued a career in journalism, working as "a cub reporter" in Henry County, Georgia, and was the founding editor of The Washboard Weekly, an "edgy tabloid" in Johnson City, Tennessee.
References External links 5by5 fireside.fm Hivelogic Bacon Method Cork'd PeepCode Playgrounder Dan Benjamin on 5by5 Archived May 8, 2014, at the Wayback Machine Interview with Dan about his Network Creation Archived March 30, 2019, at the Wayback Machine
Zeis completed two years at FDU before dropping out to work as a full-time manager of a local video store, where he had been working part-time since 1997.
The hosts and guests give their reviews of the game, and read contrary and often comedic reviews of the game found online.
QAA describes QAnon as a "big tent conspiracy theory" and a "meta conspiracy theory that provides an underlying narrative for other baseless theories".
As of January 2023, Radiolab has earned 13 podcast industry award nominations, including 7 wins, including the 2013 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Science and Medicine Podcast and the 2015 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Produced Podcast.
The common topics on Linux and free software were discussed there with studio guests, articles from the RadioTux archive (podcasts, interviews) provide appropriate background information.
Carroll received an "Emperor Has No Clothes" award at the Freedom From Religion Foundation Annual National Convention in October 2014.
David Albert Friedberg (born June 6, 1980) is a South African-American entrepreneur, businessman, and angel investor.
History The company was founded in Los Angeles, California, by Jay Adelson, Kevin Rose and David Prager in April 2005.
Their adversaries were Eben Alexander, neurosurgeon and an author, and Raymond Moody, a philosopher, author, psychologist and physician.
Topics and content RadioTux focuses on developments within the Linux and open-source ecosystem, free-software community news and interviews with notable figures such as Mark Shuttleworth, Richard Stallman and Klaus Knopper.
On May 27, 2015 New Tech City changed its name to Note to Self, in response to listener suggestions.
In the projects and distros category, the Open Rights Group was awarded £1000, the Electronic Frontier Foundation was awarded £300 and the Free Software Foundation was awarded £200.
After attending the Potomac School, Thompson graduated from Northwestern University in 2008 with a triple major in journalism, political science, and legal studies.
Recordings were usually made on Monday in a live show, using IRC and releases of the show usually occur on Wednesday.
In 2021, Vogt and another producer left the show following backlash critical of the work environment.
Presenters While the show had various presenters over the years, the line-up for the final 5 seasons was Alan Pope, Mark Johnson and Martin Wimpress.
Reception Charlotte Hilton Andersen wrote in Reader's Digest that the hosts "have a knack for picking science stories that kids will find fascinating".
Bibliography Laporte has written technology-oriented books including: He has published a yearly series of technology almanacs: Laporte announced in October 2006 that he would not renew his contract with Que Publishing, and had retired from publishing books.
The talks (all of which have been previously recorded and released by TED) are supplemented by follow-up interviews with the speaker, original reporting and other segments that bring the ideas to life.
In June 2015, Mann began a 10 podcast series with John Siracusa in collaboration with Relay FM called Reconcilable Differences, which has since been extended.
The term "keyword" ties into the name of the show as something a search engine uses to categorize things of importance.
Among Searls' contributions to the Manifesto was its first thesis, "Markets are conversations"—also the title of the Cluetrain chapter he co-wrote with David Weinberger.
I've been converted." In 1985, following Steve Jobs leaving Apple, Dvorak wrote, "Maybe when the smoke clears, we will have heard the last of Steve Jobs as guru, seer, visionary and hapless victim too ...
Other work Zomorodi is the author of the books Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self and Camera Ready: How to Present Your Best Self and Ideas On Air and Online.
Radiolab and the IAU held a public naming campaign for the asteroid 2004 GU9 from June to September 2024.
People's Choice Podcast Awards 2018 People's Voice Award Winner for Best Science and Education Podcast.
According to Morris, they moved to the country on temporary visas to allow their children to attend schools overseas.
The one-on-one discussions typically revolve around nuclear energy and related topics including political policy, climate change, and nuclear medicine.
Jono Bacon and Stuart Langridge are the only two presenters who were with the show throughout, with Jono Bacon being the only presenter to appear on every show.
The logo design originated from a traditional logic gate symbol of an "AND gate" turned on its side.
He attended Sprayberry High School and studied history and anthropology at the University of Georgia.
The show has covered a large variety of topics, including R/wallstreetbets, QAnon, Geedis, "Rome, Sweet Rome", wrestling, and homelessness.
Additionally, upwards of 80 percent of listeners reported that the program's pace was exciting, and over 80 percent reported that the layering of interviews was engaging.
Prior to the show's change of format, the hosts introduced themselves with a string of catchphrases that developed from several video game encounters and humorous inside jokes.
Also in 2014, Carroll partook in a debate held by Intelligence Squared, the title of the debate was "Death is Not Final".
Ubuntu Podcast was an Ubuntu Linux news and technology podcast formed by the Ubuntu UK Local Community Team.
January 12, 2014: On This Week in Tech (TWiT) episode 440 as a guest with Marques Brownlee and John C.
The hosts are Ben Brock Johnson (the former host of Marketplace Tech) and Amory Sivertson (who formerly worked on Modern Love: The Podcast).
The show is hosted and produced by Dallas Taylor and the writer of the episode, with help from Sam Schneble.
The show initially took the same tone of discussion as podcast network Earwolf's How Did This Get Made?, a podcast celebrating bad movies, and was originally perceived as a spin-off.
The main portion of the show consists of a round-table discussion and debate, pegged loosely to a selection of the week's major technology headlines.
For the first 14 episodes of Tekzilla, Patrick's co-host was Jessica Corbin, who made a guest appearance on episode 16 confirming she has left the show.
Inbox Zero became associated with the Getting Things Done productivity strategy, and is a popular topic on Lifehacker.
Endless Thread is a podcast from Boston-based WBUR, in partnership with Reddit, that focuses on stories relating to Reddit posts.
On November 19, 2022, actor, writer, musician, and comedian Steve Martin called into Laporte's radio show to announce Leo's retirement from The Tech Guy radio show.
References External links Official ABC page Marc Fennell's Download This Show page Rae Johnston’s official website
Patel has appeared on a number of news channels, including MS NOW (formerly MSNBC), Fox News, CNN, CNN International, NPR, Sky News, NHK, G4TV, and TWiT.
She has continued her approach of engaging with audience members to gather data about the impact of technology on their lifestyles through projects like "Body Electric", which studied how taking movement breaks affect peoples' bodies.
The firm states that the approach can produce polyploid offspring that retain the full genomes of both parents and can shorten breeding cycles across major crops.
TWiT Network Before joining TWiT as an employee, Merritt had a long-standing working relationship with former TechTV colleague Leo Laporte's network, having regularly appeared on This Week in Tech as either a guest or as a relief host.
The show was a mixture of interviews and call-ins, as well as Laporte's own thoughts and opinions on current events in technology.
The show, which was first exclusively broadcast on KFI 640 AM in Los Angeles, was picked up for syndication by Premiere Networks (then Premiere Radio Networks) in February 2007.
In 2010, Carroll was elected fellow of the American Physical Society for "contributions to a wide variety of subjects in cosmology, relativity and quantum field theory, especially ideas for cosmic acceleration, as well as contributions to undergraduate, graduate and public science education".
Unlike other shows, however, Search Engine concentrates on ways in which the Internet influences other aspects of life and culture.
Education Morris graduated from Mission San Jose High School in Fremont, California in 1996 and went on to receive her BA in Mass Communication with an emphasis in Journalism from California State University, East Bay in 2000.
Tekzilla Tekzilla was an American video podcast on the Revision3 network (Tekzilla was released every Tuesday).
There is a X/Twitter account, an Instagram account, and a Facebook page for SYSK, as well as a now official Facebook group for the SYSK Army, which was created by four listeners on January 30, 2011 (and became official when linked to the SYSK Facebook page on May 10, 2017).
Episodes The first season of the show began with a short listing of the podcast's current sponsors, followed by a humorous fake advertisement (i.e.
May 26, 2013: On This Week in Tech (TWiT) episode 407 as a guest with Larry Magid and Jeff Gerstmann.
In June 2007, Gruber and Dan Benjamin began co-hosting an independent podcast featuring conversations and commentary on trends, mainly focusing on technology at thetalkshow.net.
TWiT founder and owner Leo Laporte, in an October 2009 speech, stated that it grossed revenues of $1.5 million per year, while costs were around $350,000.
Trivial Pursuit On July 7, 2021, Hasbro released a special edition of Trivial Pursuit: The Stuff You Should Know Edition.
Speakers included Chris DiBona (Google), Gervase Markham (Mozilla) and a representative from the Department for Communities and Local Government.
Media outlets have described Gruber as an Apple "fanboy" in conjunction with his writing on the website; Gruber responded in a 2011 interview that although he does not use the term fanboy, he supports Apple because he appreciates the company.
He has acted as a relief host for Laporte on TWiT, Windows Weekly, Security Now and other shows when Laporte has been unavailable.
On October 3, 2018, the podcast started releasing additional short episodes titled Short Stuff, where they cover topics that don't warrant the length of a full episode (e.g.
The last episode went ahead live at the Music Box on December 30, 2011, skipping to episode #420 for a 2-parter.
Binärgewitter (literally "binary thunderstorm") is a technology podcast that originated as a spin-off of the RadioTux Talk format around 2011.
In 2004, Aaron Swartz and Gruber worked together to create the Markdown language, with the goal of enabling people "to write using an easy-to-read and easy-to-write plain text format, optionally convert it to structurally valid XHTML (or HTML)".
The Tech Guy was a widely syndicated US radio show hosted by Leo Laporte, formerly of TechTV and later with TWiT.tv.
Weinberger and Searls co-wrote "World of Ends: What the Internet Is and How to Stop Mistaking It for Something Else".
In May 2013, one month after the sale of Instapaper, Arment announced he was selling The Magazine to Glenn Fleishman, its editor.
Live broadcasts as comprehensive programming have been transmitted from LinuxTag, the Linux World Conference & Expo and the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage.
He received his Bachelor of Science in computer science from Drexel University, and worked for Bare Bones Software (2000–02) and Joyent (2005–06).
In a 2012 Reddit posting, he commented that revenue was approaching US$4 million (equivalent to $5,720,000 in 2025).
During the first few years TWiT episodes were made available in a variety of file formats for individual download or RSS subscription.
Gunn's degrees include a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science from the University of San Francisco, a master's degree in computer science from Purdue University and a Doctor of Philosophy in mechanical engineering from Purdue.
Career Gunn's early career included work at NASA on large-scale scientific computation and global communications, with special emphasis in infrared satellite image processing, computational fluid dynamics, and global climate and weather modeling.
The show was originally conceived of as a Star Wars podcast, and a pilot episode on that theme was recorded, before it was decided to focus on video games instead.
History Leo Laporte has been doing one version or another of his technology talk show since 1990, including a syndicated show originating from KGO.
Merritt still appeared on the Frogpants Network for a segment called Tom's Tech Time on Wednesdays on the Scott Johnson/Brian Ibbott-hosted podcast, The Morning Stream.
Personal life She is married to television reporter Josh Robin, with whom she has two children and lives in New York City.
Heather's Hole, in which Heather Anne Campbell reaches into "the deep, gaping maw that is her video game collection", and retrieves a lesser known title, gaming system or piece of gaming memorabilia to discuss.
The format of the show encourages spontaneity and the conversation often diverges wildly from technology topics.
Though much of the subject matter he deals with is serious, Brown generally takes a lighthearted, tongue-in-cheek approach to his material.
It was nominated for Discovery of the Year (Russian: Открытие года) and Online Community of the Year (Russian: Интернет-сообщество года) prizes.
History Lifewire was the third standalone brand of About.com, an IAC-owned media company, which broke up its collections of DIY and how-to information into branded vertical websites, and is a competitor to sites such as Techcrunch, Techradar, PCmag.
In addition, there is a YouTube channel explaining topics in web development, and an Internet forum.
Some forum members decide to move to MacCentral Cafe as it reminds them of the single forum Stan Flack started with at the MacCentral news website.
is a software company that provides open-source platforms and cloud services for managing, monitoring, and scaling application programming interfaces (APIs) and microservices.
Its controversial opinions and perceived biases in its computer hardware rankings against AMD products have drawn criticism in the tech press.
It analyzes the interactions between digital and Internet business models, the practices of users, and their legal framework.
The permanent storage made it possible to serve more users than the previous system of deleting the cached content after 6 hours.
5000 list of private American companies with the fastest revenue growth, MacUpdate was listed 319th in 2008, 114th in 2009, and 233rd in 2010.
Events on behalf of the site were created, along with a podcast with Benjamin Gilbert and a webcomic.
APT Data Services APT Data Services was founded in London by Peter White (publisher) and Tim Palmer (editor) in 1984.
In May 2009, Digital Trends moved its headquarters from Lake Oswego into the US Bancorp Tower in Downtown Portland, Oregon.
Videography This is some selected Popular videos of Gaurav Chaudhary as known as Technical Guruji from YouTube.
Around mid 2010 it redirected to Unicluster.org (a Univa product) and by 2012 it redirected to Univa's main site.
The researchers may choose to make the details of the vulnerabilities public in 90 days since vulnerability submission or to communicate them only to the website operators.
During 2007, the web site incorporated as an LLC company, with the help of Felipe Encinas and Luis Felipe Castillo as minor partners, and stood as a media network under the unofficial name Sconf Networks.
PandoDaily, or simply Pando, was a web publication offering technology news, analysis, and commentary, with a focus on Silicon Valley and startup companies.
As of February 2025, the TechRadar masthead lists 40 staff members, not including subbrands TechRadar Pro and TechRadar Gaming.
In March 2016, two relevant informational Internet RFCs were published: RFC 7763 – "The text/markdown Media Type," Informational.
A multivariable regression study of Sci-Hub downloads in 2018 on/near university campuses (which subscribe to some, but not all, journals) and in the areas lacking PhD-granting institutions, showed that the use of Sci-Hub is driven mostly by necessity (i.e.
The loser was required to purchase a SUMOlounge Omni for the winner, as SUMOlounge was a sponsor of Sarcastic Gamer at the time.
For a virtual funeral it is used an online video conference platform, such as Zoom, Skype, Google Meet.
Gackle co-moderated Hacker News with Scott Bell (username sctb) until 2019 when Bell stopped working on the site.
Elbakyan responded to the case in an interview by accusing Elsevier of violating the right to science and culture under Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Nonetheless, the following websites and projects have adopted CommonMark: Codeberg, Discourse, GitHub, GitLab, Reddit, Qt, Stack Exchange (Stack Overflow), and Swift.
This made it an inexpensive alternative to Microsoft's Professional Developers Conference, then the main public platform where customers and outside developers could speak to Microsoft employees without the intervention of the company's PR department.
As part of the World Wide Web Virtual Library, initiated by Tim Berners-Lee and later managed by Arthur Secret.
Apart from its own staff, CleanTechnica have accepted guest contributions from others, such as California Governor (then mayor of San Francisco) Gavin Newsom.
The Portland Pattern Repository (PPR) is an online repository for computer programming software design patterns.
In 2004, rather than deleting his content, he posted a short entry entitled "Every Exit" in which he said, "It’s time for me to find a new hobby.
In late June 2015, PandoDaily switched to a subscription model, with most of their articles behind a paywall.
The website publishes a repository of web APIs, mashups, and applications, and has documented over 19,000 open web APIs and thousands of applications.
Rise and divergence As Markdown's popularity grew rapidly, many Markdown implementations appeared, driven mostly by the need for additional features such as tables, footnotes, definition lists, and Markdown inside HTML blocks.
These portable applications are intended to be used from removable storage devices such as USB flash drives.
2012, Akuma is still at the same level as in 2010, which means it has since effectively ended its service.
Many websites from around the world got involved in or mentioned the boycott making it very popular among gamers and eventually reaching IGN which contacted Electronic Arts, the publisher of the game, causing it to finally cease the idea of paid weapons.
April 19, 2002 A major influx (more than 30) of MacCentral forum members create user accounts in the MacMinute Reader Café.
Xconomy was a media company providing news on business, life sciences, and technology focusing on the regions of Boston, Boulder/Denver, Detroit, New York City, Raleigh-Durham, San Diego, San Francisco and Seattle.
In 2017, Chaudhary created a second channel, "Gaurav Chaudhary" dedicated to producing content about his personal life.
He announced that he would join the venture capital firm SOSV in December 2020 as a senior operating partner.
Along with a visual redesign, the site expanded its focus to broader geek culture topics like technology, gaming, movies, TV, and comic books.
YourMechanic currently operates in 2,363 cities within the United States, offering 719 unique services performed by certified mechanics.
Another popular feature was Siliconia, an early attempt (begun in 1995) to document the geographic locations that were attempting to brand themselves "Silicon <Something>" in order to ride the coattails of Silicon Valley.
Graham stated he hopes to avoid the Eternal September that results in the general decline of intelligent discourse within a community.
Its main authors have disclosed ownership of Tesla stock, substantial profit from referrals to Tesla, and ownership of Tesla cars.
On May 5, 2013, SemiAccurate amended this model to reduce the number of subscription tiers from three, down to two.
The iBridge Network is a Web-based mechanism for the dissemination of innovations such as research results and reports, computer software and other copyrighted works, biological research materials, and patented inventions.
A manga adaptation by Rize Shinba started serialization in 2007 and was published by Enterbrain under their B's LOG Comic imprint.
History NewsPlus app was originally launched under name of Veooz in August 2015 Since then product evolved significantly, with support for additional languages, and addition features like, magazines, direct sharing, social features.
The team relocated to Silicon Valley and renamed to Codesion.com in early 2010, and was acquired by CollabNet in Brisbane, California, in 2010.
It is an online computer and technology-related publication website that was officially launched on 1 October 2008.
Recognition Dawson was named Internet Freedom's Internet Journalist of the Year in 1999, and TBTF was listed among Forbes.com's Best of the Web for the year 2000.
Former editors Sebastian Anthony, who led the editorial side of ExtremeTech's relaunch in 2011, left at the end of 2014 to launch Ars Technica in the UK.
The OpenBSD Journal is an online newspaper dedicated to coverage of OpenBSD software and related events.
Unlike many trade publications focused on the surveillance industry, IPVM does not accept advertising from manufacturers of surveillance technology, owing to its founder's concern around the potential for advertisers to affect the publication's editorial independence.
After five years, it was replaced by Future Human in 2020, taking place at the Trinity Business School building.
An analysis of locational data from January 2022 indicated that researchers worldwide are accessing papers using Sci-Hub.
Sunset On July 8, 2020, Digital.ai announced the sunset of the CloudForge product on October 1, 2020.
JSFiddle is also widely used on Stack Overflow, the dominant question-answer online forum for the web industry.
Launched in 1988, PCMagNet in turn was the evolution of Ziff Davis' first electronic publishing venture, a bulletin board, which launched in 1985.
Forbes reported later that year that the site received more than three million unique visitors a month, with its media content generating over 140 million monthly views.
In popular culture The AllThingsD logo can be spotted during the Season 2 opening credits of the HBO series Silicon Valley, before being taken down and replaced by the Re/code logo as the intro animation progresses.
Canada, through the Canadian Heritage Information Network (CHIN), was the first country to become involved.
In December 2011, she joined the social game studio Loot Drop as a lead designer, creating the game Charmcraft Hollow (2011).
Examples of BGR's ability to be the first to report news about a gadget include the first pictures of the Android 2.0 mobile operating system in 2009 and the first reported picture of the Amazon Kindle 2 in 2008.
In June 2010, Alcatel-Lucent acquired ProgrammableWeb as part of a move by the company to align themselves closer to the developer community.
On March 24, 2016, the site was censored in South Korea by the Korea Communications Standards Commission (KCSC) due to alleged violations of South Korea's National Security Act, a law which bans "praising, sympathizing or cooperating with North Korea".
That November, Swedish design house ORSoC AB agreed to take over maintenance of the OpenCores website.
Eventually, the site came out of public beta with the name Ask Ubuntu, which was chosen through a community voting process, and was launched alongside Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat in October 2010.
In June 2016, Oracle announced that "the Java.net and Kenai.com forges will be going dark on April 28, 2017." Javapedia The Javapedia project was launched in June 2003 during the JavaOne developer conference.
Consequently, the functionality of adding new articles was implemented and the previous editors allowed to re-publish articles.
The post, made on November 11, 2004 to LiveJournal, sharply criticized the labor practices of Electronic Arts.
VMoC was reviewed by Discovery Channel, Lycos, Anbar Electronic Intelligence, Bookmark Central, Planet Science, RedOrbit, and Science NetLinks during the 1990s.
Functions On the site, source code examples with explanations are shown free of charge in English, most of which can also be edited and executed interactively in a live editor.
In April 2014, Michael Gorman was named the editor-in-chief of Engadget, alongside Christopher Trout as executive editor.
North Korea Tech has often been cited by international media, government reports, and academics researching North Korea.
Services Bitbucket Cloud Bitbucket Cloud (previously known as Bitbucket) is written in Python using the Django web framework.
The show is currently hosted by CaptainAverage (originally of Respawn Radio), MightyMutt and Yamster and offers UK-focussed gaming news and discussion.
"Disappearance" from the Internet From 4 October 2011, Mark Pilgrim's various websites (diveintomark.org, Dive into HTML5, Dive into Accessibility, Dive into Greasemonkey, Dive into Python, etc.) returned HTTP status 410 Gone.
Shutdown and relaunch The site ceased updating daily on June 26, 2009 due to most of its core staff members being laid off.
However, users can also search by tag to find software, which offers an alternative way of finding related software.
MacInTouch's moderated forums provide technical analysis, problem-solving and news from the community.
There were a number of additions to the coursework, including D3.js and Sass, which brought the total time estimate to 2,080 hours and two more certificates, data visualization, and back-end.
On November 30, 2006, Danny Sullivan left Search Engine Watch, after his resignation announcement on August 29, 2006.
Censorship The website has been banned in several Arab countries, including Egypt, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, and lately in Palestine.
The Huffington Post Media Group branding was never used in any significant public-facing capacity, but the Huffington editorial team was put firmly in control of AOL's news websites.
Reports on visits to watch manufacturers and background information on watch companies are also among the editorial topics.
The latest round brought the company's total funding to more than $150 million and estimated valuation to nearly $500 million.
It makes available to the public the intellectual property Gazettes of the Japan Patent Office (JPO).
By all accounts, the show shouldn't have worked but when the show ended, it had consistently been rated in the top 3 PlayStation-centric podcasts on iTunes for years.
Data breach reports In May 2024, the International Baccalaureate organizations faced allegations over supposed breaches in their IT infrastructure after an incident of examination leaks.
Tom's Guide uses an AI tool called Advisor, which leverages OpenAI's LLM, to analyze articles to suggest more articles to readers, according to Digiday report on the tool.
All resumes and vacancies divided by sector ("consulting, outsourcing," "Optimizing sites (SEO)», «Media", etc.).
In February, Cryptome is briefly shut down by Network Solutions for alleged DMCA violations after it posted a "Microsoft legal spy manual".
Early popularity can be attributed to features like the Gnutella "server of the moment", which allowed users to connect to a node of the decentralized network.
The site collected information about freedom of expression, privacy, cryptography, dual-use technologies, national security, intelligence, and government secrecy.
In March 2015, it was shut down and in June 2015, its website and content were acquired by Knowingly and relaunched.
M3, together with tech magazines "Computer Sweden", "PC för alla" and "MacWorld", were owned by International Data Group until 2025 when they were sold to private equity firm Regent LP.
Controversies In July 2019, UserBenchmark updated how it calculates the effective speed index on its website's CPU hardware rankings, drastically affecting the ranking positions of CPUs, which penalized AMD processors.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
Up to the end of 2019, the platform reported 272,020 fixed vulnerabilities using coordinated disclosure program based on ISO 29147 guidelines.
Launched to provide a web only product for increasingly internet-literate users, access was deliberately made free to compete with paid-for magazine subscriptions.
Users were puzzled as to how Stack Overflow acquired the rights for this relicensing of their past contributions, with some users explicitly stating that they did not intend their contributions to be licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0.
In 2005, the website and related Search Engine Strategies conference series were sold to Incisive Media for $43 million.
Similar statistics are obtained when the downloads are normalized per article rather than per journal.
Editorial focus is predominantly on Microsoft-related news, but the site also offers analysis and reporting on mobile news, tech trends, gadgets and new technological developments, as well as in-depth product reviews.
YouTube later reinstated the two videos and retracted the copyright "strikes" after a request from Verge editor Nilay Patel, although Patel acknowledged that he agreed with the legal argument that led to their removal.
Background 8-Track Heaven was founded on 20 July 1995 by Malcolm Riviera, Abigail Lavine, Russ Forster and Chip Rowe.
Despite its place as the oldest operating Android site, it has declined in recent years and is no longer actively maintained.
With up to 4,8 million visitors and 18 million page impressions, Netzwelt is one of the top five IT websites in Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
On 8 November 2019, 36Kr held its initial public offering by becoming a listed company on the Nasdaq raising $20 million.
In April 2022, the website went inactive, save for a black main page with the message "Geekologie has shut down.
According to a 2013 TechCrunch article: "Graham says that Hacker News gets a lot of complaints that it has a bias toward featuring stories about Y Combinator startups, but he says there is no such bias.
ZeroPaid's early focus was on the peer-to-peer space including file sharing, Napster, Gnutella, Usenet, and BitTorrent.
The ETC Podcast was reworked into Idiots Watching Anime, a full series version of a few episodes they did of the ETC Podcast where the two hosts watched a few episodes of Dragon Ball Z, a show they were both unfamiliar with, and discussed it with the friends who suggested the episodes.
Jeremy Ashkenas joined as lead developer, and DocumentCloud was incorporated as a nonprofit organization.
The website's owner is Dotdash Meredith, originally About.com, which launched Lifewire in 2016 as one of its spin-off vertical sites.
Each challenge consists of an authentication page with a password entry box, plus other files which are to be exploited or attacked in order to gain the correct password.
In November 2013, it was announced that PandoDaily had acquired NSFW Corp, a politics-and-humor website founded by technology journalist Paul Carr.
Critical response Jason Hill was awarded "Best Gaming Journalist" in the 2006 Sun Microsystems IT Journalism Awards.
It is the second-largest consumer technology, news and review site from the US with 68.4 million visits in September 2022.
You're able to see all computer mods based on a specific case, as well as browse dozens of completed projects.
Additional functionality is available, such as providing building guides, sharing build lists, photos, and instruction, alerts for price drops, forums, and filters for automatically adjusting pre-made lists of components.
"Scaling start-up success: YourMechanic CEO Anthony Rodio looks to drive growth in the auto services industry".
Attrition is an information security-related website, created in October, 1998, which used to be updated at least weekly by an all-volunteer staff.
The purpose of Lifewire is to offer advice and answers on common technology questions and problems in a simplified format.
Wired is a bimonthly American magazine that examines the impact of emerging technologies on culture, the economy, and politics.
M3 was influential in Sweden during the 2000s, when its tests, reviews, and investigations were frequently cited as sources in mainstream media such as Dagens Industri, Svenska Dagbladet, Expressen, Dagens Nyheter, Aftonbladet and others.
On July 20, 2013 the site was compromised, with attacker(s) both defacing the site and gaining access to "all user email addresses and hashed passwords" The site was compromised once again on July 15, 2016.
On leaving, Joshua Topolsky, former editor-in-chief, is quoted having said, "We have been working on blogging, technology that was developed in 2003, we haven't made a hire since I started running the site, and I thought we could be more successful elsewhere".
Your Turn In March 2008, Screen Play launched Your Turn, an initiative to encourage the blog's visitors to contribute their own essays on videogame culture.
MobileMagazine.com A cease and desist order on the use of the confusingly similar magazine name and website domain MobileMagazine.com was sent to Future Network USA.
Outstanding subscriptions to Mobile PC were fulfilled by subscriptions to Maximum PC, a sister technical magazine.
History and ownership Tom’s Guide was launched in September 2007, a rebrand of Gear Digest and spinoff of Tom’s Hardware, as a more generalist guide to consumer technology.
History ProgrammableWeb was founded in 2005 by John Musser and had documented 1,000 APIs by November 2008.
Uses There are two main ways that consumers use this site It allows consumers to identify "green products".
New missions More recently, HTS came out with logic challenges, which moo, HTS's official bot, proclaimed were "not meant as a challenge to overcome like the rest of HTS challenges." Instead, the logic challenges were meant to be overcome by the participant alone from solving.
In June 2006, The Inquirer published photographs of a Dell notebook PC bursting into flames at a conference in Japan; The New York Times reprinted The Inquirer's photographs.
In late April 2002, Butler announced a relaunch of the site that included a reduction in links to other sites and a further increase in original content.
Appropedia is a wiki-based website that contains content relating to sustainability, poverty, environmental degradation, and international development.
History The magazine was launched in 1993 by American expatriates Louis Rossetto with his life partner and business partner Jane Metcalfe.
1Up is Visiting each week in office by the Biggest and Most Fearsom Names in Video Game World so he can treat each Character's Ailments.
It was a top 10 technology-information site in 2017, reaching 6 million monthly US unique users each month.
In September 2025, Kong acquired OpenMeter, an open-source and SaaS platform for real-time usage-based metering and billing.
Content The newsletter included various regular features such as the Jargon Scout, edited by Dawson, which attempted to spot and catalog technology-related neologisms and, to some extent, invent them.
The owner, Seth Weintraub, also disclosed near total divestment from Tesla stock on January 14, 2020.
See also List of Internet forums CNET Maximum PC TechCrunch The Tech Report Tom's Hardware ZDNet References External links Official website
These issues spurred the creation of tools such as Babelmark to compare the output of various implementations, and an effort by some developers of Markdown parsers for standardization.
The behavior of some of these diverged from the reference implementation, as Markdown was only characterised by an informal specification and a Perl implementation for conversion to HTML.
At the editor's discretion, products with exceptional reviews may be given Silver, Gold, or Editor's Choice awards.
In 2018, the company produced the first Brandweek, event, a first-of-its-kind summit held September 23–25, 2018 in Palm Springs, Calif.
It eventually merged into the electronic ComputerWire service, and is now owned by Tech Monitor, one of the specialist titles within the New Statesman Media Group.
ReadWrite (originally ReadWriteWeb or RWW) was a Web technology blog launched in 2003, covering Web 2.0 and Web technology in general, and providing industry news, reviews, and analysis.
Common topics of news items and features included wireless technologies, peer-to-peer file sharing, upgrades and new offerings from ISPs, legal issues, regulatory issues, and security issues.
In April 2017, The Information announced the launch of Briefing, a new feature to the site consisting of a list of daily headlines with commentary on articles from other news sources.
TV Squad operated as a separate, independent site until May 2011, when AOL merged TV Squad with AOL.
The profanity filter was removed (although use of vulgar language is limited), and the identities of traditionally anonymous volunteer moderators were revealed (except two).
Any subscriber could unlock an article for 48 hours (with a limit of 20 unlocks per month) and the authors and editors generally unlocked recent articles and tweeted them to readers.
Codespaces is tightly integrated with GitHub repositories and enables on-demand coding, debugging, and testing in a full-featured development container hosted in the cloud.
The forums became a popular resource for Ubuntu and were deemed the Official Ubuntu Forums in November 2004.
Bleeping Computer is a website covering technology news and offering free computer help via its forums that was created by Lawrence Abrams in 2004.
Tracklib functions as an intermediary between record labels, publishers, copyright owners, and artists.
History The company, under the name SDNCentral (named for software-defined networking, which was the original intent for the company) was co-founded by Matthew Palmer and Roy Chua in 2012.
Its reports have drawn the ire of Chinese video surveillance equipment company Hikvision, whom IPVM revealed to have been providing surveillance equipment and technology key in the mass internment of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang.
It aims to increase the number of female entrepreneurs starting high-growth ventures through access to resources, network, and knowledge.
See also Open Hub ProgrammableWeb Open Directory Project Product Hunt Free Software Directory References External links Official website
The manga has been translated into Chinese, German, English and French; in Germany, it is published as Akihabara Shōjo.
On his third such post, a reader of his blog suggested that he start a new website dedicated exclusively to such humorous "bad code" postings.
In 2009, MozillaZine removed news section of the site due to lack of interest and since the open source project was well covered by other sources, including general and computer press.
A change was made to monthly, but as of issue 73 (November/December 2008), it returned to bi-monthly.
As of 2018 Electrek was known for its extensive, positive coverage of electric transportation in general and Tesla specifically.
Markdown is widely used for blogging, instant messaging, and large language models, and also used elsewhere in online forums, collaborative software, documentation pages, and readme files.
In 2005, Krebs launched the Security Fix blog, a daily blog centered around computer security, cyber crime and tech policy.
Authors The magazine's authors included Howard Rheingold, Douglas Rushkoff, Mark Frauenfelder, David Pescovitz, Justin Hall, Kevin Werbach, Carol Posthumus, and Steve Wallage, among others.
It was further developed by the same people who developed Acorn Arcade, the contents of which were incorporated in 2006.
The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) issued a statement condemning blocking the website, and accusing the authorities of "denying Palestinians their right to receive information from a variety of sources".
Adrian "Lono" Cherikos, who had met with Adams on Xbox Live a few months before Sarcastic Gamer was created, started writing for the site after his debut on the Sarcastic Gamer Podcast on July 13, 2007.
The talks were confirmed by Informa in a press release that same day, but described as "preliminary".
Tracklib is a Swedish music service that allows producers to sample original music and clear the samples for official use.
During this period it changed its motto to "the Independent Journal of Open Standards and Open Source".
Wiki Matrix Iterating announced the addition of a Feature Matrix in June 2007, which allows users to dynamically create customized, side-by-side feature comparisons of software solutions.
Since AnandTech's shutdown and the colossal archive of data and content was scrubbed off the internet by its publisher, Future PLC, the ex-senior editor Gavin Bonshor created BonTech Labs, in which he intends to carry on testing PC hardware via AnandTech's previous and rigorous testing methodology.
Original articles are usually published weekly on Thursdays and are available only to subscribers for two weeks, after which they become free as well.
It was also explained that Backchannel had migrated away from Medium because of the platform's shifting business model.
History and operations Jessica Lessin, a former reporter for The Wall Street Journal, founded The Information as a subscription-based news website marketed to technology-sector executives in December 2013.
The print publication "Mobile" ceased publication as of November 2005 due to undetermined reasons and the domain name MobileMagazine.com was transferred to Pilato Private Consulting.
Role The primary function of The Ubuntu Forums is for Ubuntu support, but it also has a popular community area where other topics may be discussed.
As of March 2006, Tweakers was taken over by the Dutch media conglomerate VNU, now known as The Nielsen Company.
After a user has clicked the Like button next to an application, they are offered the opportunity to tell their friends on Facebook or their followers on Twitter that they liked it.
Since its launch in 2009, it has been used primarily by journalists to find information in the documents they gather in the course of their reporting and, in the interests of transparency, publish the documents.
In 2002, The Register expanded to have a presence in London and San Francisco, creating The Register USA at theregus.com through a joint venture with Tom's Hardware.
We are no longer pursuing a relationship with him or his distribution channels." The sexual assault alligations against Takei were later rescinded.
In September 2012, the company won the TechCrunch Battlefield Disrupt San Francisco competition against other finalists Saya, Lit Motors, Prior Knowledge, Zumper, Gyft and Expert Labs.
Since then, IRE has assumed primary responsibility for maintenance and development of the platform as well as managing its grant funding.
Ali worked with academics at Cornell University to formally analyse the protocol to identify limitations and develop two new versions of this protocol known as Frequency Size Bucketization and Identifier Based Bucketization.
In 2010 The Register supported the successful launch of the Paper Aircraft Released into Space, a project they announced in 2009 that released a paper plane in the extreme upper atmosphere.
Editorial leadership and media appearances Tom's Guide editors have appeared regularly on cable news and local news stations over the years to speak about consumer technology products and issues.
In 2016, Stack Exchange added a variety of new sites which pushed the boundaries of the typical question-and-answer site.
According to Elbakyan, she experienced difficulty accessing scientific papers relevant to her research project.
References External links PandoDaily at the Wayback Machine (archive index) PandoDaily's channel on YouTube
In Human Physiology, Medvedev and Aldasheva dispute Warwick's contention that machines will become superior to humans on the grounds that "machines are man-made human organs", i.e., they extend what humans do.
In astronomy, superluminal motion is the apparently faster-than-light motion seen in some radio galaxies, BL Lac objects, quasars, blazars and recently also in some galactic sources called microquasars.
History The apparent superluminal motion in the faint nebula surrounding Nova Persei was first observed in 1901 by Charles Dillon Perrine.
After being called to Japan by Holly, Joseph's daughter and Jotaro's mother, Joseph arrives with an associate, Mohammed Avdol.
Some characters gained notoriety for their ability to break the fourth wall, manipulating gameplay elements normally only accessible to the player, such as saving.
It is mentioned in God Emperor of Dune (1981) that while history books credit Aurelius Venport with designing the first Spacing Guild ship, it was actually Venport's mistress, Norma Cenva, who gave him the design.
A notable absence from the cast was Charlie Hunnam, who could not join the project because of his scheduling conflicts with King Arthur: Legend of the Sword.
The Guide was compiled by researchers roaming round the galaxy, beaming their copy in, which was then instantly available to anybody to read.
It is revealed that the virus was engineered from Ultimo himself by the Human Engineering Life Laboratories, which was acting on the commission of the Stark Solutions corporation, which had been contracted by H.A.M.M.E.R.
Themes The Humanoids presents two overarching themes, or "big ideas": (1) The concept of an existential threat to the whole of human society from a powerful, but uncontrollable, machine intelligence, and...
Layla ignores Will's attempts to reconcile while Warren reveals her obvious feelings for him to Will.
A laser drove electrons through a gold target's nuclei, which caused the incoming electrons to emit energy quanta that decayed into both matter and antimatter.
The Science Boyzz (Analysis-Type Bots) - Two scientist robots who serve as the group's research and development duo.
In the official trailer of the video game Civilization: Beyond Earth, a sleeper ship was seen sending humans from Earth to an alien planet.
The Australian dance style the Melbourne Shuffle features heavily in the "Party Rock Anthem" music video, fused with US hip-hop dance elements.
Reception Endless Space 2 received "generally favorable" reviews upon release according to review aggregator Metacritic.
It is a story of a robot which was damaged in a spaceship accident and started performing eerie actions it was not aware of, as if it was somehow "possessed" by the spaceship crew that had perished in the same accident.
Since the advent of modern Science fiction, many variations on the theme with proposed basis in reality have been imagined.
Its only remnant in New Boston is a granite slab in a traffic island that celebrates the foundation's "active research for antigravity and a partial gravity insulator".
It grossed a domestic total of $40.7 million, ranking it 21st for 1986 in the United States; it performed slightly better than other hits of that year, such as Pretty in Pink, The Fly, Three Amigos, Little Shop Of Horrors, and About Last Night.
As the main antagonist, Hiram seems to be the personification of a misanthropic view of humanity – greedy, Machiavellian, and entirely self-serving.
While they never aired on television in the United Kingdom, twelve of the shorts were released on DVD.
Stone Monster Army The Stone Monster Army is a group of rock monsters that are reanimated by the Cloud of Monstrox's lightning.
Later in life Biefeld recounted that Einstein borrowed his class notes, but there is little evidence of anything more than a passing acquaintance between the two students.
In Pre-Crisis comics, the lasso also had the power to effectively control those who were bound within it.
Following the trend between newer generations of the main series, the designers of Sun and Moon focused on the motions on the full 3D models from X and Y in order to create livelier creatures.
The captured Sirians live on Earth in a state of virtual house arrest, with their movements restricted and monitored.
The Young Justice incarnation of the Brain appears in issues #18 and #19 of the Young Justice tie-in comic book series.
The alignment may be possible by trapping superconductor ions in a lattice structure in a high-temperature superconducting disc.
1 in the US box office with a studio-reported weekend gross of $5.3 million, although independent sources suggested that the gross was inflated and more likely between $4.5 and $4.725 million.
Intrigue happens on the trip as several factions also want to claim it, such as the planetary government.
(水爆飛行船 東京へ!, Suibaku Hikōsen Tōkyō e!) The Terrifying Electrothermal Man: Mother Blows Up and Sinks!!
The final revelation is that he has made some of his fortune by providing the hardware to run the Hells of various species; over a century he has accumulated about 70% of all the Hells.
The motif of the Virgin Mary's image was taken by Geoffrey from the 9th-century Historia Brittonum, which describes a battle "in the castle of Guinnion, in which Arthur carried the image of saint Mary the perpetual virgin on his shoulders".
Believing that the immortal creatures known as the homunculi will lead them to more clues to recover their bodies, the Elrics try to use them.
In his first suspended animation stages, his body was stored at Edward Hope's Cryo-Care facility in Phoenix, Arizona, for two years, then in 1969 moved to the Galiso facility in California.
The documentary was picked up for distribution by Netflix under the title Hope Frozen: A Quest to Live Twice, and was released on the platform on September 15, 2020.
Danielle Panabaker as Layla Williams – Will's botanokinetic, pacifistic, childhood best friend, next-door neighbor, and later girlfriend.
Knowing this, Ubisoft began production by brainstorming unique ideas to set it apart from other strategy games.
Early attempts at cryonic preservation were made in the 1960s and early 1970s; most relied on family members to pay for the preservation and ended in failure, with all but one of the corpses cryopreserved before 1973 being thawed and disposed of.
The 1991 film Terminator 2: Judgment Day and 2015 film Terminator: Genisys feature the T-1000 terminator.
A prior story revealed that Mattie Franklin and Madame Web eventually gained the gifts (power and immortality) they had in the mainstream continuity, but what became of Herd after the first attempt was not shown.
In this game, he was given more realistic human proportions, with a less rotund belly and thicker legs.
Broadcast history The season originally aired Sundays at 8:30–10:00 pm (EST) as part of The NBC Sunday Mystery Movie.
They appear in some of the most important exact solutions in general relativity, including the Kerr vacuum (which models a rotating black hole) and the van Stockum dust (which models a cylindrically symmetrical configuration of rotating pressureless fluid or dust).
Following the North American video game crash of 1983, Nintendo courted a fearful retail market by rebranding its Japanese Famicom video game console as the Nintendo Entertainment System—a new platform focused on R.O.B.
He experiences first coldness, tingling, then itching, followed by "the faintest burning" which soon intensifies to the point that "he could feel skin curling black on that agonized hand, the flesh crisping and dropping away until only charred bones remained".
The Martian tripodal Killing Machines with heat rays in Jeff Wayne's Musical Version of the War of the Worlds (1978).
The main task is to rescue and protect the daughter of Brawne Lamia (one of the main characters of Hyperion), Aenea, a messiah coming from the time period just after the first books via time travel.
Post-launch updates introduced Egyptian and medieval-themed unicorns as well as the new threat of Solar Geysers.
Volume 1 is the first of two Kill Bill films made in a single production; Volume 2 was released six months later.
As Murbella becomes the leader of a New Sisterhood composed of both the Bene Gesserit and Honored Matres, Duncan and Teg flee Chapterhouse with Sheeana and other passengers on the no-ship.
The first one is season one episode fourteen, an interview with series creator Jhonen Vasquez, which was released on August 12, 2016.
Autobots, like all transformers, need to regularly feed on Energon (a form of energy they can produce from certain fuel sources) or they will grow weaker in health and eventually die.
Following the success of Voltron: Legendary Defender, Netflix released 12 episodes of Defender of the Universe as Voltron '84 on March 24, 2017.
It is also hinted in the second book that the Tree of Thorns is actually a simulation generated by a mystical interface which connects to human brains via a strong and pulsing (as if it were alive) cord.
Robot Unicorn Attack Forever, a third game rendered in full 3D, was released on April 27, 2017 for iOS.
With the help of Buck, a survival robot, he will have to hold on until the arrival of a rescue mission.
He is picked up by a fishing boat [space mining ship] and forced to work for/with them for several months until the hold is full.
Invader Zim had a villain at its center, years before Breaking Bad and Mad Men popularized that dramatic convention for adult audiences.
See also List of German television series References External links Robbi, Tobbi und das Fliewatüüt (1972 TV series) at IMDb
During his first major battle, Static defeats the villain Sunspot and earns the attention of a criminal syndicate known as the Slate Gang.
A rebellious young member of the Children, Luz, escapes from the group's new headquarters, the futuristic city "The Corridor" (also known as Quitado), and lands in Mumbai during what appears to be a magnetic storm.
In addition to the single-player campaign, there is an Arcade mode, which includes time trials and races with other objectives.
.hack//Quantum, a three part OVA series from Kinema Citrus and the first in the anime series of .hack to be licensed by Funimation.
In the seventh book, Norby Down to Earth, Norby learns about his origins as well as the fate of the spacer McGillicuddy, who converted him to his current form.
Freehand is basically an arm attached to a rotor that flies around ZZ's house, usually enacting tasks for the Talking Heads.
Cyborg Noodle, the cyborg clone of Noodle from the virtual band Gorillaz who was created for the storyline of their album Plastic Beach (2010).
The show is noted for its guest stars consisting of largely indie music acts, and for drawing visual inspiration from 8-bit video games and H.R.
Plot summary The overarching plot of the Xeelee Sequence involves an intergalactic war between humanity and the Xeelee, as well as a cosmic conflict between the Xeelee and the Photino Birds.
The endorsement of the president ensures that Henshaw eclipses the rest of the heroes claiming to be Superman's heir.
In an essay titled Gravity – Our Enemy Number One, Babson indicated that his wish to overcome gravity dated from the childhood drowning of his sister.
On her way back to the civilization she contacts legate Tamirindus Rohm, who sends her to the Reichart Station to oversee the creation of a wormhole generator.
When all the humans are gone, Dulcie, and her counterpart on the "Other Side" Decorum, begin to reach back in time for more humans to control, so that their simulations may have more humans as playing pieces, to kill when each loses a battle.
Release The team planned to release Chrono Trigger in late 1994, but release was pushed back to the following year.
Following Kuno’s escape, individuals are no longer permitted use of the respirators which are needed to visit the Earth's surface.
Episodes The "correct" order of episodes is somewhat unclear and the episodes contain conflicting evidence as to the in-universe chronological order.
PC Snooze has pastel green skin with a deep Cockney accent, PC Snore has pastel peach skin with a Birmingham accent, and PC Nod Off has pastel lavender skin with a high Yorkshire accent.
An algorithm then converts those data points into measurements emergency medical responders can use in their rapid assessment of a patient's critical medical conditions.
Nuka Cola also appeared as a consumable, as did the laser rifle as an in-game weapon, in a later update.
The protagonist is Shelby Cheever, a spoiled, exceedingly rich teenager, who lords his wealth over everyone around him, while taking pride in being completely unproductive.
Despite his series partner Madigan's concerns to tell his family who he is, Murphy replied firmly "No" as he felt doing so would hurt them even more.
Farscape On the TV show Farscape, John Crichton is injected with bacteria called translator microbes which function as a sort of universal translator.
Deputybots - Squirebot cowboys employed by Jorah Tightwad that live in the west, specifically in the town of Nothing Hill.
In the present, the Brain tasks Madame Rouge with attacking the Doom Patrol and stealing Robotman's body for him as her initiation into the Brotherhood of Evil.
To stop the Inheritors from traveling around the multiverse, hunting all animal totems as fast as possible, Octavius identified the Master Weaver as the source of their abilities to traverse the multiverse, and killed him.
He falls under the thumb of a man named Dolman, who owned one of the five artifacts used in the Gathering ceremony before it was stolen by Osborn.
In the DVD commentary for Back to the Future, Bob Gale states that he had thought it was pronounced this way because it was how a scientific adviser for the film pronounced it.
In 1999, she left the university to form a company, AC Gravity LLC, to continue anti-gravity research.
Before losing her own memories as a result of her actions, Elda requested to be left alone outside, away from her family, so that she would not have the possibility of suffering the same fate as her sister.
As a result, the concept of Janeway Lambda one was changed to be a work of Gothic fiction set in 1840s England in which Janeway plays Mrs Lucille Davenport.
The plot concerns on a young boy named Willy, who after the destruction of his ship, gets separated from his parents and lands on an unexplored planet, where he must survive until the arrival of a rescue mission.
Due to the conflict with ROC's license, these books were available in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and the UK, but not in the US.
In 1965, Brown filed a patent that claimed that a net force on the asymmetric capacitor can exist even in a vacuum.
Reviewers generally praised the game's visuals, considering them an improvement over the previous installments.
The franchise has also influenced music, with fan-made songs, such as those by The Living Tombstone, garnering hundreds of millions of views.
Five Nights at Freddy's: Security Breach was announced with a teaser trailer on September 16, 2020, slated for initial release on PC, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation 5 in the year.
On a much larger scale, they plan to use a ghola of the now-deceased Corrino Emperor to claim the Golden Lion Throne, with the Executrix as the true leaders behind the so-called "puppet Emperor".
Plot Season One Earth astronaut John Crichton is unexpectedly hurled to an unknown part of the Milky Way galaxy via a wormhole.
In the Omniverse episode "Arrested Development," it was revealed that Billy Billions encountered Computron and his robot minions after he was accidentally sent into Dimension 12.
This version was originally an inmate of the Vault before escaping off-screen in the series' pilot episode "Breakout".
Ruby Thursday appeared as part of the "Headmen" entry in the original Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe #5, and in The Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Update '89 #3, and she received an entry in The All-New Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe A to Z: Update #4 (2007).
The suit features microphone recorders in the fingertips permitting eavesdropping and recording conversations either from a distance or through a wall.
The wings themselves, consisting of "delicate metal interleavings", are adjustable in length through a "retractor bar" or manually.
He was also the professor of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Akron, Akron, Ohio in 1906 and continued until 1911.
The medical tricorder is used by doctors to help diagnose diseases and collect bodily information about a patient; the key difference between this and a standard tricorder is a detachable hand-held high-resolution scanner stored in a compartment of the tricorder when not in use.
- Described as 'The sole City on the sleepy planetary capital of the system', and 'The place where old bureaucrats went to retire', Earth.
During an IGN interview with Tom Byron of LucasArts at E3 1999, the question of online play was brought up.
In Investiture of the Gods, Chong Yingbiao, son of the Northern Lord Chong Houhu, also wields a 1.8-zhang serpent spear.
Hope Frozen is a 2019 Thai documentary film directed and co-written by Pailin Wedel, together with Nina Ijäs, and released by 2050 Productions.
Erasure's song "Always" – which was a main part of the original game – is not in the base game and must be purchased separately for $0.99.
Broadcast The series originally aired in syndication as part of a children's block titled Amazin' Adventures, premiering on September 1, 1993 and ending on December 2, 1994 with a total of 40 episodes over the course of 2 seasons.
In addition, there is a wireless relay communicator built in the cowl, with its signals locked with quantum cryptology and bounced through a dozen different satellites (presumably the WayneComs).
Similarly, a hypothetical space travel using constant acceleration of 1 g for one year would reach relativistic speeds and allow for a round trip to the nearest star, Proxima Centauri.
Currently, it is licensed by Maiden Japan, a unit of Section23 Films, which has also released all OVAs other than Armor Hunter Merowlink.
Nielsen ratings are audience measurement systems that determine the audience size and composition of television programming in the United States, which means that the episode was seen by 0.5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds at the time of the broadcast.
His first appearance was in the 1983 book Norby, the Mixed-Up Robot, in total he appeared in 11 novels in the 'Norby' series.
patent 3,196,296 — Electric generator (1965-07-20) See also Field propulsion – Propulsion concepts and technologies == References ==
See also Species (1995), another film featuring a similar premise Demon Seed (1976) Trojan horse, the trope forming the central plot device References Further reading Davies, Kevin Jon (editor & director); Montagu, Ralph (producer) (2006).
In keeping with the Hitchhiker's Guide's tradition of being edited by random people off the street, h2g2 is an encyclopedia edited by thousands of contributors.
The quarrels quickly grew into an open war, called the Dust Wars, which essentially destroyed their society, leaving but a few splintered surviving individuals.
In addition, he has been shown to be an avid video gamer at several points in both his series and the Teen Titans.
According to Men, Li continued anti-gravity research for the Department of Defense but she stopped publishing or discussing her research findings upon attaining a top secret security clearance.
Another DVD box set for Invader Zim called the Complete Invasion Box Set was released in 2006, featuring all three of the DVD volumes boxed together, with the art of Volume One on the cover.
There was a script for a possible third film, where Johnny 5 went to college, that was written in 1989 and rewritten in 1990 but was found unsatisfactory by the producers, and the project was scrapped and canceled.
Along with Android Kikaider Robot Detective was one of the early predecessors to what would become the Metal Hero Series of programs featuring human-sized cyborg heroes.
The space rock band Hawkwind released a concept album titled The Machine Stops in 2016 based on the story by Forster.
He can also perform virtual phone calls, displaying his caller or receiver through his eyes as a hologram.
Pridwen was named as the shield of King Arthur in the chronicle called Flores Historiarum, both in the original version written by Roger of Wendover and in the adaptation by Matthew Paris.
The Danger Room appears in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order via the "Rise of the Phoenix" DLC, with the A.I.
Inquisitive and dedicated, the Endless were able to make great advances in the fields of science, which culminated in them achieving virtualization, allowing them to upload their minds into machines and giving them eternal life.
Casting and filming Following the third season of Star Trek: Voyager, the production team decided that the main cast character of Kes was to be dropped from the show.
After Technovore destroys the space station, Iron Man battles the creature in space and destroys it with his auto-destruct sequence.
Meanwhile, they meet an eight legged lizard-like alien named Flash, with whom they become friends, and together they discover the planet, its fauna, its flora...
The most recent version of .NET is .NET 10, released in November 2025, which is a long-term support (LTS) version, and is scheduled to receive updates until November 2028.
The film's sequel, titled Short Circuit 2, was directed by Kenneth Johnson and was theatrically released on July 6, 1988.
He has been cited as the man Peter might have become if he had not been raised with a sense of responsibility.
Herd dismisses Franklin with little effort but is later forced to battle the original Spider-Man and Iceman while trying to tell officials that Dolman was tampering with his mind.
Although the Xeelee master space and time and can even influence their own evolution, they ultimately fail to stop the Photino Birds.
Keeping these feelings in mind, I hope to continue composing songs which are powerful, and yet intricate...I hope that the extras like this bonus CD will help expand the world of Chrono Trigger, especially since we did a live recording.
While the goal of each battle is usually to defeat every enemy on the field, some levels have a fixed objective, such as escorting a Toad to the end of the stage.
The novel blurs the boundary between humans and robots, particularly in the characters of Ruijie and Jun.
Thankfully for high command, his demands for doing so are generally small-time, usually just involving a promise of comfortable shoes.
(Rossum's Universal Robots) written in 1920 and first performed in Czechoslovakia in 1921, in New York City in 1922 and an English edition published in 1923.
Machines have a number of advantages over human minds, including the ability to expand practically without limit and to spread into space where humans can't reach.
As Brainiac wakes up, his computer announces "Attempt #242 in progress", a reference to Brainiac's first appearance in Action Comics #242, and to the many encounters between Brainiac and Superman.
Alice Squires (voiced by Nicole Oliver) – A robot newscaster who assists Herb Herbertson on the Knighton News Network.
After Midori Shimomura awakens from her coma, she enters The World R:2 with a PC identical to Midori.
The site's creation predates Wikipedia by two years, though several commentators have noted the similarities between Wikipedia and the Hitchhiker's Guide, particularly its wild variance in reliability and quality and its tendency to focus on topics of interest to its writers.
She later partners with a large purple creature called Dibbuk (named after, but unrelated to a dybbuk) and bases herself in Las Vegas.
The 2.1 (Niven) update, released alongside the "Distant Stars" DLC in May, revamped the base game play loop and added more quality-of-life features.
.hack Conglomerate .hack Conglomerate is the current project of .hack by CyberConnect2 and various other companies and successor to Project .hack.
In the article "Rotating Cylinders and the Possibility of Global Causality Violation", Tipler showed that in a spacetime containing a "sufficiently large rotating cylinder" spinning around its axis, the cylinder should create a frame-dragging effect.
Episodes Production Rob Renzetti moved from Cartoon Network to Nickelodeon to develop his own ideas as part of Fred Seibert's and Frederator Studios' Oh Yeah!
For characters that could not use the sniper rifle, Interplay added a turret mode allowing those characters to use turrets.
magazine visited a toy fair in England to observe a playthrough of Gyromite with R.O.B., saying of the struggling demonstrator that he had "never seen anything so complicated and difficult in all my life".
The newly-arrived Hayato is forced to duel her to prevent the expulsion of two students who arrived late to the entrance ceremony because they are looking for him at the airport when he arrived.
Cryopreservation in nature Many living organisms are able to tolerate prolonged periods of time at temperatures below the freezing point of water.
A live-action Astro Boy movie was announced in 2015, to be produced by animation studio Animal Logic in collaboration with Tezuka Productions and Ranger 7 Films.
Brainiac sends Metallo to attack Superman, but due to Superman reasoning with him over his feelings for Lois Lane, he breaks free of Brainiac's control and joins Superman in his attack.
His armor is blue and his crest shows a falcon and his signature weapon is a Claymore, which has the ability to supercharge into the "Sword of Strength".
Sir Griffiths (voiced by Michael Adamthwaithe) - A teacher and old acquaintance of Principal Brickland who is portrayed with a southern drawl.
In cohesion with the classical Christian viewpoint, WALL-E shows that work is what makes humans human.
The Delta City dream of former OCP CEO, "The Old Man", lives on with the help of the Japanese zaibatsu, the Kanemitsu Corporation, which has bought a controlling stake in the organisation.
Similarly, in Gregory Keyes' series The Age of Unreason, "aetherschreibers" use two-halves of a single "chime" to communicate, aided by scientific alchemy.
An early example of a material similar to monomolecular wire deliberately used as a weapon and cutting tool is "borazon-tungsten filament" in G.
In a major scene of the book, the character John, from the low-tech and "savage" Malpais Reservation, goes to see a feelie called Three Weeks in a Helicopter.
Creamer, ABE's programmer Production Development Corman got the idea for a remake of the original film when he was being interviewed by an Italian journalist who remarked that The Hunger Games had similarities to Death Race 2000.
Post-Crisis In 1999, a post-Crisis version of Vartox was introduced by Dan Jurgens and Steve Epting.
Warwick proposes that because machines will become more intelligent than humans, machine takeover is all but inevitable.
Revival Revival would require repairing damage from lack of oxygen, cryoprotectant toxicity, thermal stress (fracturing), and freezing in tissues that do not successfully vitrify, followed by reversing the cause of death.
He ended up as a starship pilot living on the External World of Orakum and lives with three life partners; Jesaral, Anja and Dushiku.
If Lorentz symmetry can cease to be a fundamental symmetry at the Planck scale or at some other fundamental scale, it is conceivable that particles with a critical speed different from the speed of light be the ultimate constituents of matter.
In "Forest of the Dead" (2008), he claims that a few hair-dryers can interfere with the device, though he states that he is "working on that".
Harrington contacted the creator of JtHM, then-22-year-old Jhonen Vasquez, who had no animation experience at the time, and asked him to pitch an animated series to Nickelodeon.
In the opening scene of the episode, DJ Lance is shown walking on a plain white background while holding a silver radio with colorful buttons.
Over the next 100,000 years, humanity continues to advance technologically, becoming a Type III civilization.
Subsequently, androstenone, axillary sweat, and "vomodors" have been claimed to act as human pheromones.
In reality, this smell was a side effect of the explosives used by the French and British militaries during the war.
She also adds various muscles to most of the characters fearing that otherwise they may look much too thin to the point they could look unhealthy.
Merchandise A magazine was published in July 2002, corresponding with the show's "Get Streetwise" road safety campaign.
Chara told their foster brother, Asriel, of a plan to collect six human souls by killing themself, letting him absorb their soul and leave the Underground as one being.
It created almost a police procedural, detective feel that also served to make the whole thing a bit haunting and unsettling, which is great given how creepy 'Detroit Steel' already is".
See also Crash and Burn – 1990 film also released in some markets as a sequel to Robot Jox References External links Robo Warriors at IMDb
There are also scenes which depict astronauts and flight attendants walking upright in zero-gravity with the aid of "grip shoes", which use hook-and-loop fasteners to keep the wearer connected to various surfaces inside the ship.
Distant relative to Chantal Lefarge (Under the Yoke) and Frederick and Marya Lefarge (The Stone Dogs) Jennifer Feinberg: Work colleague of one of Gwendolyn's victims, she later starts to have feelings for Henry Carmaggio and the two marry at the end of the novel.
US military planned 'gay bomb' Air force looked at spray to turn enemy gay Air Force Considered Gay 'Love Bomb' Against Enemies US Military "Gay Bomb" Video (Republican National Convention blog)
In a drunken vacation mishap, Shelby accidentally ends up in a remote mining colony with no easy return, due to entering a FTL translation node without setting the coordinates.
The latter was the German member of a Japanese archeological team that discovered ruins of a lost pre-Grecian civilization on an island named Bardos, the Mycéne Empire.
Cryonics – Freeze Me (originally titled Death in the Deep Freeze) is a television documentary programme created by ZigZag Production for Five in 2006 for in their Stranger than Fiction series.
Orbitals One of the main types of habitats of the Culture, an orbital is a ring structure orbiting a star as would a megastructure akin to a bigger Bishop ring.
A second report confirms that sensitive electronic "noses" may detect infections such as pneumonia from a person's exhaled breaths.
Prime returns to the city's surface and successfully defeats Megatron and the High Guard, who defect to his side, eventually banishing them for attempting to destroy Iacon.
One of its mouths is located in Cardiff Bay, Wales and the other floats freely throughout space-time.
He created the Forbidden Power of Petrified Quake by combining two other Forbidden Powers together, allowing his Krakenbeast to generate earthquakes and petrify objects with a roar.
After meeting Jestro and the Cloud of Monstrox, Arnoldi sided with them in order to get revenge on Knightonia.
Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, 21st Century Medicine Regina Pancake, Head of Alcor Stabilisation Team, South California Tilly Nydes Robin Nydes, Alcor Member Professor Ralph Merkle, Ph.D., Georgia Tech College of Computing Dr James R.
He obtains a Panuncian, a wolf-like predator with the ability to duplicate itself, as Zed's replacement, equipping it with the Nemetrix.
After encountering Deadpool's X-Force and the Juggernaut, Cable joins forces with the former, during which Deadpool sacrifices himself to save Russell and avert Cable's future.
The Switch version supports motion controls, allowing players to use them to operate the individual throttles of the podracer's twin engines.
As she turns on the television, she finds out that she and Ren have been disqualified from the tournament.
This reveals Kassad's motivation for returning to Hyperion: he wishes to kill the Shrike in order to prevent the interstellar war it is planning.
When a representative of this heartless aspect of post-war Britain [i.e., Paul Mason] invades the sunny, rural island it becomes, briefly, as grey, polluted and miserable as the realm from which the dreamers are trying to escape.
Jason Sheehan of NPR praised Brown's vivid action scenes but wrote that this third installment is heavy on exposition.
It has been created to steal data from other computers and systems without their owners finding out.
Plot summary John Ashbery summarizes Locus Solus thus in his introduction to Michel Foucault's Death and the Labyrinth: "A prominent scientist and inventor, Martial Canterel, has invited a group of colleagues to visit the park of his country estate, Locus Solus.
Bobby finishes the race (with a bit of intervention from Loor) and sees that Zetlin is actually one of the racers, a popular sixteen-year-old called the "Z" in his fantasy.
As a 14-year-old boy, Guilford Law witnessed the "Miracle" as shimmering lights moving eerily across the ocean sky.
At Unit 701, Rong cracks the nefarious Purple cipher, and soon becomes obsessed with cracking the Black cipher.
Prin and Chay belong to a species that use the threat of Hell to control the behaviour of their population.
His speculations here jump off the extrapolation track a bit, in my opinion, but they are fascinating, and the ending of this novel takes on a certain logic of its own.
A new American hardcover edition was issued by Walker and Company in 2001 with a foreword by Lois Lowry and an afterword by the author.
An omnipresent surveillance system (known as the "Mechanism") ensures that violent crime is almost unheard-of, and genetic engineering has vastly extended human lifespans.
He gives the task of teaching Frank the local language to his daughter Loa, who falls in love with Frank.
Though his intentions (to protect the Wetchik's funds, as per his job) are originally good, he is overwhelmed by his own power after first becoming the Wetchik himself and then taking over Gaballufix's position.
Orwell became disenchanted with the restrictions and pressures involved with journalism and grew to detest city life in London.
Spielberg also hired designer Guy Hendrix Dyas to work with him and his writers on creating the visual tone for the film and conceptualize its robotic elements.
In a mixed review, Budrys criticized Thomas's portrayal of human nature and wrote that he found the plot too meandering, but applauded its characterization of artificial intelligence.
Awards and honors Awards Honors 2010 Best Novels of 2009 by Publishers Weekly and Amazon.com 2010 Best Books of 2009 by NPR and the Library Journal Editions Tinkers, New York: Bellevue Literary Press, 2009.
It also collects information from public sources such as video cameras with facial recognition and has the ability to track individuals.
The books mainly follow a mysterious character known as Nathan Brazil, who has an (initially) unknown connection to the Well World.
They sneak back into the US, and then they meet up with Mordecai, who tells them about Henry Clarke.
It appears that the link between homosexuality and creativity is less a function of genetic selection, and more a product of societal pressures and approvals.
However, all is not well, for a species of aggressive aliens known as the Posleen are attacking the Galactics.
These early attacks are part of Archos’ precursor virus, intended to measure humanity’s response to robot aggression.
Rebel escapes by taking over the body of Eucrasia Walsh, a woman who rents herself out for temporary testing of new wetware programming.
He, his tribe, and his species were faced with extinction, but for the intervention of a monolith which imbued him and his fellows with the beginnings of higher intelligence.
Andrey Smislov, while the character of Moisevitch as-such makes appearances throughout the rest of the Odyssey series and in the opening scene of the 2010 film.
Alex gives TranceBox copies of the recorded nightmares to his younger brother, Devon, and five of Devon's friends, unknowingly granting more power to Freddy.
After meeting the Star Maker, the traveller is given a "fantastic myth or dream" in which he observes the Star Maker at work.
First, Deckard visits the Seattle headquarters of the Rosen Association, which makes the androids, to confirm the accuracy of the empathy test on the new model.
Cyber bullying A survey conducted in Australia found that 42 percent of girls aged between 12 and 15 reported being intimidated or denigrated online or via mobile phone messaging.
Deciding they might need extra muscle to confront Daedra, Wilf's group recruits Conner to manufacture another crown and control another peripheral, a bodyguard for Wilf at the party; Conner is ecstatic at being able to walk again while piloting a peripheral.
We're here, we're now." Childhood DeLillo also portrays the children as being smarter and more mature than the adults in White Noise.
He believes that all what is broadcast on the radio is true." One critic adds that television does not stop at molding the thoughts of DeLillo's characters, but more invasively, television and its advertising subliminally shape their unconscious behavior.
Alice is constantly in her sister's shadow: "Whatever was yours was yours, and whatever wasn't yours was yours, too.
Later, as a prisoner, Winston sees Parsons imprisoned in the Ministry of Love, after his young daughter reported him to the Thought Police for speaking against Big Brother in his sleep.
One storyline involves Mary Choy, a high natural police detective assigned to the case to track down and arrest the murderer.
Her name derives from a combination of Fanny Brawne, the love of John Keats, and the eponymous creature of his Lamia and Other Poems.
Gibson recognised, and benefitted from, the growing public fascination with the evolving technology landscape, and used these concerns to "create an entire cultural vocabulary", merging the language of human experience with the electronic.
After immobilizing Blake, they explain to Forbin their purpose in immobilizing Colossus — their desire to take half of the Earth's oxygen, a process that will kill nearly a quarter of the human population.
Tennant suffers from a series of regression episodes, which are considered to be seizures by his doctor, who says they are caused by overexposure to a super-MRI scan.
Apparently a servant of the Geisha Bank, a powerful money center, she in fact rules the bank through the remotely operated body of her now brain-dead predecessor.
They perceive the interbreeding as mutually beneficial; in particular, it will solve what the Oankali think is the humans' fatal combination of intelligence and hierarchical tendencies.
The Matrix (1999) described a world whose population is unaware that the world containing their minds is a virtual reality simulacrum.
It is a social satire set in London and Ibiza, exploring relationships, technology, and mental health in the modern world.
The newborn star will create one or more new Alderson Points for interstellar travel, giving the Moties another usable exit from their system.
Wanting to capitalize on the wave of radiation-related anxiety sweeping Japan, in early 1954, the producer Tomoyuki Tanaka from Toho Studios approached the popular science-fiction writer Shigeru Kayama to come up with a screenplay about a radioactive kaiju monster.
Nigel Rasmussem briefly enters the game to inform her that CPOC broke into the arcade and damaged the equipment.
She is forced to undergo quarantine until the humans determine whether she is any threat to their mission—if she has "gone native." In the process, extensive trade negotiations take place between human and Tendu.
It explores online harassment and racism in Video games contrasted with the pleasure of online gaming.
Born to reasonable wealth he had signed his trust fund over to a bank in return for the long-term use of a zero-tau stasis pod.
A more mixed review appeared in the London Review of Books, and The Telegraph gave it a relatively neutral review.
In a meta commentary on the role of narrative plot in storytelling, Gladney, and the novel itself, assert that once a plot is set in motion it only moves "deathward".
They continue the story of Rick Deckard and attempt to reconcile many of the differences between the novel and the 1982 film.
Durham predicts that efforts to utilise chaotic effects will clash with Copy rights, as both Copies and weather simulations will demand increasing QIPS Exchange shares.
is never really startling or disturbing." Allusions and references Jeff Noon says Vurt originally began as an adaptation of Octave Mirbeau's The Torture Garden, an anti-authoritarian novel written at the turn of the 20th century.
Leisha is left with the revelation that trade is not linear, but rather an ecology, and that today's beggar may be tomorrow's savior.
Over the course of the three years Juna spends among the Tendu, she learns their "skin speech" language, masters much of their culture, learns something of the complex alien ecology that surrounds and sustains her, adopts Moki, a young Tendu, and comes to see herself as one of them.
It is about a girl, Leanna, who lives in 22nd century America where human clones and cyborgs are treated like second-class citizens, and what happens when she discovers that her parents are activists and that she is a clone.
Bill Graham, investigating the deaths of two scientists his agency has funded, discovers that over a dozen scientists who knew each other have died recently, either by heart attack or by suicide, after appearing to go insane.
The unwritten, second story was to tell how the Quaddies settled into what would be known as "Quaddiespace".
Tori is killed by the Factionless, and the others escape and meet Tobias's mentor, Amar, who has long been presumed dead.
Following the revelations of the previous novel, they journey past the city's boundaries to discover what lies beyond.
The notion that the universe is dominated by a communications network of superintelligences bears comparison with Olaf Stapledon's 1937 science-fiction novel Star Maker, although Stapledon's advanced civilisations are said to communicate psychically rather than informatically.
Resch, unaware of Garland's revelation, shoots Garland in the head, escaping with Deckard back to the opera singer, whom Resch murders in cold blood.
Reviews The Los Angeles Times praised "a writer [who] describes something so well—snow, oranges, dirt—that you can smell it or feel it or sense it in the room." The New Yorker enjoyed Harding's "skillful evocation [and] mosaic of memories".
There, Lacan claims that the formation and reassurance of the self depends on the construction of an Other through imagery, beginning with a double as seen in the mirror.
A tie-in to the Friday the 13th series of American horror films, it is the third in a series of five Jason X novels published by Black Flame and involves undead cyborg Jason Voorhees running amok on G7, a space station orbiting Planet #666.
Jack is taken to the Xymos research facility in Nevada's Basin Desert, where he is given a tour of the lab and introduced to the programming team (Mae, Charley, David, Rosie, Bobby and Vince).
Like the Glis, the Nijjans seem to come from an ancient time, when time and space were plastic and could be ruled by Will.
Shiva wants the backdoor to promote environmental and humanitarian causes, allowing him to manipulate governments and populations for a greater good.
Islanders live on massive, bioengineered floating islands, each supporting populations of at least 10,000.
Under the Business's plan, Thulahn would be utterly changed, if not destroyed, and its people thrust into the modern world.
Scramblers, 9-legged anaerobic aliens that inhabit Rorschach and appear to be part of it in some sense.
Title According to Stephenson, the title is a play on Necronomicon, the title of a book mentioned in the stories of horror writer H.
Steve realizes that his identity is determined by his autonomy rather than his genes or his upbringing.
Because Kayama had killed off Godzilla with a fictitious device called the Oxygen Destroyer at the end of the 1954 film, he found writing a screenplay a challenge but drafted the sequel Godzilla Raids Again in a short period of time.
Though surrounded by motorists and within sight of large buildings, Maitland is unable to escape the median strip and must struggle for survival.
Victor, an obstetrician-gynaecologist and owner of the biochemical company Chimera Inc., injects the egg implanted in his wife with an agent called Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) into chromosome six, which causes the baby to grow more neurons than usual, as a result heightening its intelligence.
I was left feeling a bit like I'd read two books: one about what a cover blurb calls "the pornography of violence" and how people react and adapt to it; and another about consensus reality, and how VR might expand or alter that reality.
Sliced Apple) by Risa Taneda was used for episode 1 through 16, which was replaced by "Yuki ni Saku Hana" (雪に咲く花; lit.
These are Byron (a lawyer, not actually homeless), Dolores, Hal (a violent alcoholic), and teenagers Jonathan and Nick.
Jóhann collaborated with José Enrique Macián on writing the narration adapted from Stapledon's novel.
She became Sovereign by decapitating her own father (a tyrannical Sovereign) and presenting it to the senate.
A large part of the political literature of five years was now completely obsolete"; ch 9) is evocative of the Soviet Union's changing relations with Nazi Germany.
When asked if the Sacred Ancestor will ever be given a larger role, Kikuchi said the character "will come out someday" and "When that happens, please expect that to be your warning that Vampire Hunter D is speeding toward an ending".
Jenna tells Ethan that she is made of Bio Gel, and he tells her that the man he attacked was a man who was selling drugs to his brother.
The computer-generated city simulation is so well-programmed that, although the inhabitants have their own consciousness, they are almost entirely unaware that they are models in a computer simulation.
In popular culture In the Japanese visual novel Eden*, the term "Felix" is used in the setting to refer to genetically engineered humans with abilities similar to those described in the book, and the connection to Heinlein's work is referred to in dialogue.
They cannot turn their phones off or not log onto the Net, because if they do they exclude themselves from their social group.
The artwork is also reflective of this "archaeological" approach, with faded and textured visual effects applied to the paintings.
Yatima matures within a few real-time days, because citizens' subjective time runs about 800 times as rapidly as flesher and gleisner time.
He also explains how Kaoru can merge consciousness with people in LOOP or watch from afar like a ghost.
They discover that the Core AIs are divided by their varying loyalty to the Core's Ultimate Intelligence (UI) project.
Summary The novel explores the social consequences of the development of a "virtual reality" technology "which enable[s] unremarkable people to enjoy the experiences of those who are more gifted or fortunate".
Plot Victor Frank and his wife Marsha, unable to have a second child due to Marsha's infertility, turn to surrogacy as an alternate method of conception.
She pretends to go along with this in order to be in a better position to warn her lover of this danger.
Samantha and Nick are on their own, so they decide to break into the system themselves in order to find information about the employees.
They try to fly a helicopter towards the Ebba Maersk, but find that their fuel is probably insufficient to reach it.
The TMA-2 monolith on Japetus in the book is located on the ground, positioned like it were a tall building, also the hemisphere the monolith is located in, is coloured white and the opposite hemisphere is black in colour.
We then meet the protagonist, a professional social engineer named James Pryce who works for Red Rook, a gray-hat security company.
Instead of the symbol/reality dichotomy of General Semantics, the Logic of Levels substitutes the concept of behaviors and instincts as complex neurological structures and feedback loops, more complex levels being built on simpler ones.
Simulacron-3 (also published as Counterfeit World) is a 1964 science fiction novel by American author Daniel F.
January Magazine stated that they were "breathless" from Cowl but that there was "just so much to take in".
Two old Cold War spies, powerful Washington lobbyists, the Mafia in New Jersey, the senator, a northern Virginia technology titan CEO, and an American-Israeli lawyer are all chasing after the money and threatening the brothers.
Charles Mosely is a former drug dealer and convicted killer recruited by the Daemon, which helps him to escape prison by transferring him first to minimum security and then releasing him altogether.
Cecily embraces it, having been an orphan longing for a family, and Jenna endures it forlornly while Rhine constantly thinks of ways to escape.
Some lines from the chapter where Rob meets a tribe of African pygmy cannibals were excised due to racist content.
The many technological advances depicted in the novel suggest that the world is undergoing ever-increasing change, following the technological singularity, a recurring subject in Vinge's fiction and nonfiction writing.
Intended to infuse the standard Vampire Hunter D formula and mythos with more Western sensibilities, it would have told an original story about D departing the Frontier to embark on a journey to a new land still ruled by the vampiric Nobility.
His suicide part way through the novel is confronting and indicates the severe consequences which can stem from cyber bullying.
As a result, owning real animals has become a fashionable and expensive status symbol, while poor people can only afford realistic electric imitations of animals.
Nothing could be further from my intention, and few things would be more distasteful to me than any attempt to laugh at Mr Darwin." Characters Higgs: The narrator who informs the reader of the nature of Erewhonian society.
The Gripping Hand is set in the year 3046 (twenty-eight years after the events of The Mote in God's Eye) and revolves primarily around two characters of the first book, Captain Sir Kevin Renner (ISN, Reserve) and His Excellency Horace Bury, Imperial Trader Magnate.
Paul Toor | Loptoor – A government employee who bears an uncanny resemblance and name similarity to a cowardly character, Loptoor, in Mendle's novel.
For instance, the New Age slogan "flower power" is referenced via its German form, Ewige Blumenkraft (literally "eternal flower power"), described by Shea and Wilson as a slogan of the Illuminati, the enemies of the hippie ideal.
The novel's title itself refers to a quest undertaken by most of the inhabitants of Carter-Zimmerman ("C-Z"), a polis devoted to physics and understanding the cosmos, along with volunteers from throughout the Coalition of Polises.
Plot summary Queen of Angels describes our world just prior to the binary millennium (2048 AD) through several parallel (and to some degree interlocking) tales.
Hrbková's translation of The Absolute at Large at Wikisource The Absolute at Large at Standard Ebooks The Absolute at Large at Faded Page (Canada) Full text (in Czech) Audiobook of David Wyllie's English translation
Some weeks earlier, Frank Hartman, a virologist and soldier, had received samples of a dangerous virus.
Rand survives an attempt on his life before he realizes that Project 79 has gained sentience and is trying to control the minds of humans and take over the world.
During a hurricane, the brides, Linden, and Vaughan move to the storm shelter in the basement and Rhine sits with Linden to look over blueprints for houses he’s designed.
The book was eventually turned into a TV movie starring Janine Turner and Antonio Sabato, Jr., called Fatal Error.
The dialogue of Star Begotten makes brief references to Wells' earlier novel, referring to it as having been written by "Jules Verne, Conan Doyle, one of those fellows", as well as the concept of Big Brother, later written into George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four (1949).
The world described in the book is dystopian, with laissez-faire economics portrayed as leading to disaster as greed trumps long-term planning.
In the twenty-sixth century, all religions and secular science consolidate into a religion based on the worship of motion whose god is Gordelpus, the Prime Mover.
Kösemen stated in 2021 that though the book had grown popular, he had almost "disowned" All Tomorrows, finding parts of it "a bit cringey".
Upon using the hack, she glitches into the middle of the tournament match, which confuses both teams and leads to the cancellation of the match.
Film adaptation An eponymous 1997 television film produced by CBS starred Kelly McGillis as Doctor Jean Ferrami, Larry Hagman and Jason Gedrick as Steve Logan, Harvey Jones, and the other clones.
Locus Solus is used as the name of a yearly music festival at Le Lieu Unique in Nantes, France dedicated to the building of experimental musical instruments.
Thomas (1989) in Fiction, #410 Review by John Gilbert (1989) in Fear, September 1989 Review [French] by Piet Hollander (1989) in Yellow Submarine, #65 Review [French] by Jonathan Dornet (1989) in A&A, #126-127 Review by John D.
It allows kids who probably would not engage openly in such behaviour an opportunity to hide behind the faceless nature of the internet and torment others.
He travels to China to recruit an old friend (and former spy) Shen Liang, but Liang refuses to believe that the Daemon network is real.
This transmedia twist creates an ever-changing and evolving medium, sending you clues to real-world places and events announced through social media accounts that the reader must discover from the story itself.
However, jitter and latency are considerable problems with this basic network when long distances are involved.
This fragmentation stagnates the plot compared to the typical novel, and for Jack's purposes, keeps death at arm's length.
It might also be a reference to computer worms (the Vurt is riddled with virtual reality serpents which propagate from game to game, like computer worms replicate themselves by hijacking computer programs).
In a 1999 interview regarding the novel, Stover describes it as follows: "It's a piece of violent entertainment that's a meditation on violent entertainment- as a concept in itself, as a cultural obsession.
The project, overseen by Digital Manga Publishing and Hideyuki Kikuchi, aimed to adapt the entire catalogue of Vampire Hunter D novels into a manga form, however it had concluded after the eighth volume due in part to an injury affecting Takaki's ability to illustrate the series.
The novel was published by Bellevue Literary Press, a sister organization of the Bellevue Literary Review.
In order to proceed with construction of the "Collector" designed to harvest the oxygen, the Martians reactivate the parts of Colossus necessary to manage human society.
One year later, a mother brings in her teenage daughter and her daughter's child to Marsha's office.
Victor then goes looking for V.J., who spends a lot of time at his father's laboratory, and sees him head under an old clock tower on the Chimera campus.
While browsing the internet from a neighbor's computer, Jenna discovers that the accident that put her in a coma was caused when she drove a car of her cliff when her friends, Kara and Locke, were also in the vehicle.
Painfully dated, but a must for the collector's library." South Korean writer Djuna cited the work as one that has significantly influenced them in their youth, at the same time noting that "It hasn’t aged well, and it’s particularly criticized for its racist depiction of Asians".
He becomes a rival of Merlin, who appears to be little more than a fraud, and gains the trust of King Arthur.
The main story is then divided between police chapters as Sue, investigation sections as Elaine, and programmer and gamer geek sections as Jack.
Rebel meets and falls in love with Wyeth, a leader whose personality was reprogrammed into a team of four complementary personas.
References External links Internet Speculative Fiction Database entry of The Clone Codes Library holdings of The Clone Codes
agrees to release Victor on the conditions that Marsha stay in the lab as a hostage, and that Victor must have a guard with him at all times.
Plot The story is roughly divided into two parts: before and after 1927, the year in which it was written.
A few other stories not set in Vermilion Sands are comparable because of their similar artistic games, especially "Sound-Sweep" (1960, on music/opera) and "Passport to Eternity" (1962, full of decadent trends and live fashions).
There are plots within plots, some going back to the dawn of humanity and beyond: plots that endanger the very survival of humanity.
On the way there, she tells Taverner that she knows he is a TV star and reveals copies of his records.
Where Stella accepts and embraces the uncertainty of life in a way that makes her drawn to philosophical thought, Mary avoids this uncertainty, regarding these spiritual questions and speculative thoughts as dangerous and unhealthy.
Mushin (無瞋) Voiced by: Tamio Ōki (Japanese); Carl Masterson (English) An old, heavily bearded head priest of the Temple of Purification.
Bass utilizes extensive biochemical and medical terminology in the narrative, and many scenes are quite clinically graphic.
He believes she is a light being but she appears completely human, until the discovery that she has no navel heightens the mystery of the young woman's origin.
The concept of solipsism is also examined prominently, with many less-wealthy Copies attending social functions called Slow Clubs, where socialising Copies agree to synchronise with the slowest person present.
Drawing parallel literary connections, Thomas Christensen (in a 1999 retrospective review) calls it "a DNA based Frankenstein's fantastic voyage-story for the last quarter of the twentieth century.
Several people are killed in a confrontation between faction members and the Factionless, including Evelyn's right-hand man, Edward.
To force Vata’s release from Islander control, Gallow destroys a floating city and kidnaps Ward Keel, the Islander Chief Justice responsible for deciding the fate of genetically unstable infants.
Jenna was in a relationship with Ethan until his death, and is now raising their child, Kayla, who was born through a surrogate.
Strathmore asks Fletcher's fiancé David Becker to travel to Seville and recover a ring that Tankado was wearing when he died.
Like some of Baum's adult novels, The Master Key features encounters with real historical figures of the period, such as King Edward VII of Britain, President Émile Loubet, Emperor Wilhelm II of Germany, and the Duke of Orléans.
Adam Walcott, who claims to have discovered a post-partum gene therapy to turn Sleepers into Sleepless.
Rong is adopted by distant relatives who study mathematics at an unnamed Chinese university, and is soon recognized for his mathematical prowess.
[and] asks readers to ponder what makes us human and if we’ll know when we’ve crossed the line, becoming something else." Publishers’ Weekly also gave the book a starred review, stating that "Dayton’s brilliant collection of stories is best described as a scientific Twilight Zone".
Set in modern Britain, its plot concerns laboratory-engineered gene mutation at the Splice of Life Patentable Biosciences lab and the chaos that follows when it goes wrong.
After several weeks the attack against her dies down, but then she learns that her friend Marshall is being targeted.
The story is told from multiple perspectives, including that of Kiera, her co-developer Claire, who is a computer science student in Paris, John, a professor of African American studies, and players of SLAY.
They allow themselves to use some genetic-engineering improvements (referred to as "geneering"), but do not generally condone the use of "bitek" (organic/bio technology) in their culture.
It is later learned that this email is for a work-at-home programmer position at Hayek Associates PLC.
The novel shows that human minds can be saved to read-only memory, preserving deceased or unwilling people's technical skills for at-will use by corporations.
China, India and the nations of Africa are now the world's leading technological powers, although they face competition from the United Aquatic Nations, a new underwater civilisation populated by water-breathing transhumans.
Dickstein travels to Luxembourg to obtain documentation on all uranium shipments from the EURATOM agency located there.
Upon meeting Rose, Rhine is told that she and Linden are perfect for each other; they have the same amount of time left.
He wrote that Jurassic Park "was a bestseller, but it was never acclaimed and isn't remembered with much fondness.
Declaring her love for Ross, together, they head off with Sebeck to witness him finish his quest and prepare for their future together.
By the time of the stories in the series, the Markovians have vanished, leaving behind the Well World, continually maintaining the new universe.
Bleiler faulted the novel for defects including "poor exposition," noted that Jevic was modeled on Nikola Tesla, and found the fictionalized account of his early life "fascinating." References Sources Chalker, Jack L.; Mark Owings (1998).
Billy has "virtualized" himself in a virtual world known as "NOD" in order to communicate secretly with Blake.
They theorize that humanity could be an unusual offshoot of evolution, wasting bodily and economic resources on the self-aware ego which has little value in terms of Darwinian fitness.
On his deathbed, George remembers his father, who was a tinker selling household goods from a donkey-drawn cart and who struggled with epilepsy.
Devon, using a bomb he found in Dream World, blows Freddy up and leaves him to the mercy of the vengeful souls of his recent victims, including Autumn.
Plot SLAY tells the story of Kiera, a black high school student who develops and maintains the online game SLAY, a VR multiplayer world where players duel using cards giving them powers based on black culture.
Although it is quickly declared off-limits by the government, Ela hires a boat and visits the crash site.
Mermen, by contrast, are genetically stable and physiologically closer to baseline humans, aside from webbed hands and feet.
Andrew Milner, a literary critic and author of Science Fiction and Climate Change, notes that this book is an early example of 'doomer' climate fiction.
In the concluding chapter of The Diothas, Edward Bellamy is the figure identified as "E—." Macnie himself believed that Bellamy had introduced too many elements of The Diothas into his later book.
At the end of the Way was a finite but unbounded cauldron of space and energy - a small proto-universe.
He tells Rob that he has accidentally "touched the Master Key of Electricity" and is entitled "to demand from me three gifts each week for three successive weeks." Rob protests that he does not know what to ask for, and the Daemon agrees to select the gifts himself.
The author goes on to state that mankind's story has always been about the lives of humans themselves, not major wars and abstract ideals, concluding by encouraging the reader to: "Love Today, and seize All Tomorrows!" Development Kösemen worked on All Tomorrows from 2003–2006.
In between their confessions and executions, Winston saw them drinking in the Chestnut Tree Café—with broken noses, suggesting that their confessions had been obtained by torture.
Elana stows away on a ship in order to accompany her father on a mission to Andrecia where intervention has been deemed necessary because a technologically advanced empire (The Imperial Exploration Corps) has invaded the planet in order to take advantage of its resources.
Preceded by Red Rising (2014) and Golden Son (2015), Morning Star was published on February 9, 2016, and debuted at #1 on The New York Times Best Seller list.
Johnny "Dread" Wulgaru (Anubis)—a half-Aboriginal Australian psychopath obsessed with rape and murder, employed as an assassin by the Grail Brotherhood.
By creating this scenario, Egan postulates a world where economic inequality can persist even in one's (virtual) afterlife.
Hork calls for Muub, Dura (called due to her experience as a star-human), Adda, Farr and a scientist to go down into the uninhabitable centre of the star in a specially constructed vessel and try and retrieve ancient weapons, supposedly left by the humans who originally created the star-human race.
Leaders Jeffrey "Jeff" Divine (born Jeffrey Ayan; formerly Ender Ayanethos) grew up in Lapeer, Michigan, in a Catholic family.
He escaped in March 2013, and remained at large for several months, until he was hacked to death by villagers on 29 August 2013.
Uthman was later succeeded by his son, Abu Ja'far Muhammad, who served until his death in 304 or 305 (917 or 918 CE).
The guided meditation then encourages the meditators to imagine themselves being on the Elohim's planet and communicating telepathically with these aliens.
The Jesuits began missionary work among the Tepehuan in 1596, establishing missions at Santiago Papasquiaro and Santa Catarina de Tepehuanes and, later, El Zape.
The NOI's division into two factions after Elijah Muhammad's death was caused in part by the fact that new leader Warith Mohammed wished to reject the Yakub myth, while national spokesman Farrakhan wanted to reaffirm it.
Many people directly attributed personal miracles to receiving a blessing from Rabbi Kaduri, such as recovery from severe illnesses and diseases, children born to couples with fertility problems, finding a spouse, and economic blessings.
This is a list of notable people who have been said to be a messiah, either by themselves or by their followers.
'seem to evoke a suffering Messiah in the perspective opened up by the Servant Songs.'" The text of 4Q541 Fragment 9 reads, 2 And he will atone for all the children of his generation, and he will be sent to all the children of 3 his [people].
April 16, 2021), also known by her followers as Mother God, was an American religious leader and the co-founder of the new religious movement Love Has Won.
Verse 10 Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.
Epidemics were known to have occurred in their region in 1594, 1601-1602, 1606-1607, 1610, and 1616-1617.
As the LORD is speaking to another Lord, Henry postulates that "two distinct divine Persons…are involved"—namely, God and Jesus.
Before becoming a religious leader, Raël, then known as Claude Vorilhon, worked as a sports-car journalist and test driver for his car-racing magazine, Autopop.
He attended Francisian Classic Gymnasium in Visoko and subsequently studied theology, but never actually became a priest.
Unlike impostors, he will truly establish peace and well-being, implementing justice and equity in a tangible, not symbolic, manner.
Hayyim ben Joseph Vital Hayyim ben Joseph Vital wrote that whoever wants to know what will happen in the end days should study the first seven days.
The bomb was planted under the wrong car and failed to kill Gaddafi but did result in the deaths of several innocent civilians.
Also Al-Majlisi (may God's mercy be upon him) in the book of Bihar Al-Anwar, named the speech of the progeny of Muhammed℗ as the "Yamani wisdom." That was also reported by the messenger of God℗, as he named Abd Al-Mutalib℗ the sacred house the Yamani Ka’aba.
Around this time, Muhammad Ahmad first met Abdallahi bin Muhammad al-Ta'aishi, who was to become his chief deputy and successor in the years to come.
For different aspects of "prison", see "prisoners of hope" in Zechariah 9:11, and the "spirits in prison" in 1 Peter 3:19.
And through them is the completion of favors and the perfection of religion and the heavenly messages are sealed.
They were often named after him, and there are many toponyms—from Istria in the west to Bulgaria in the east—derived from his name.
Background Sinasa was a village in a remote, mountainous area of Davao City, around 25 miles from city center.
Divine protection in battle Te Ua taught that the divine service and strict adherence to his instruction would make them impervious to bullets if, when under fire, they would raise their right hand and cry, "Hapa!
Vermes Pierced Messiah reading "[...]Isaiah the prophet: [The thickets of the forest] will be fell [ed with an axe and Lebanon shall f]all by a mighty one].
Arnold Potter (January 11, 1804 – April 2, 1872) was a self-declared Messiah and a leader of a schismatic sect in the Latter Day Saint movement.
In 2019, the couple founded the Church of Union, to "unify all religion under one spiritual umbrella".
The same measures were taken in the occupied territories; in French Lorraine, the Nazis forbade religious youth movements, parish meetings, and scout meetings.
Father Divine purchased his 72 Macon Avenue house from a resident who wanted to spite the neighbor he was feuding with.
Jacob falls asleep and sees a ladder set up on the Earth; the top of it reaches to heaven with angels ascending and descending on it.
James John Todd Kincannon (born June 12, 1981) is an American attorney and political activist known for his statements made regarding political issues and current events.
Manson's pen-pal Michael Channels claimed to have a Manson will dated February 14, 2002, which left Manson's entire estate and Manson's body to Channels.
While being against "globalism", Bolsonaro sought to work with various other neo-fascist, far-right, and authoritarian political parties, groups, and strategists to combat left wing politics across central and south America.
Its language reveals it to be apocalyptic; it speaks of distress that will come upon the land and of the disastrous reign of enemies.
While the surviving form of the Sibylline Oracles was likely edited by Christians, most believe that some of it originates from Greek-speaking Hellenistic Jews.
Due to his poor study skills and dyslexia partially caused by poor eyesight, he was put in special education classes and bullied by his schoolmates.
From around 1900, he traveled and wrote travel books, stories, and plays, with his plays becoming somewhat popular.
He was already deployed in Egypt due to the attempted coup there earlier, and organized a large force of infantry, but advanced at an extremely slow rate.
‘Abdullah al Himyary al Qommi as the narrator of this Ziyarat was lived in the terminal period of the minor occultation and likewise many of his letters to the twelfth Imam of Shia (Mahdi) have been narrated, according to source(s).
He contended that this would be a "biological change into a different species, casting his teachings as scientific truth in line with secular naturalism." He emphasized to his early followers that he was not speaking metaphorically, often using the words "biology" and "chemistry" in his statements.
Juhayman and 68 other militants were captured alive and later sentenced to death by Saudi authorities, being executed by beheading in public displays across a number of Saudi cities.
Content of the poems and stories The folk poems tell about King Matjaž's fights with the Turks, about the kidnapping of his wife Alenčica, or his rescue from the Turkish jail.
She and Moon together are referred to as the "True Parents" by members of the Unification Church and their family as the "True Family".
S Salusan bull – Fierce and very aggressive creature with compound eyes and multiple horns, used in bullfighting on Caladan and originating from Salusa Secundus.
The statement "and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it" is usually taken to mean that the Church will never become extinct.
Their lifestyle typically consisted of hunting animals with bows and arrows, growing root vegetables, and wearing loincloth garments.
Jafari said "This film was produced with a budget of 600,000 dollars in 15 months, which is a record in the local animation industry." The quality of Roman Princess is far ahead of other animations in Iran and is comparable with foreign works.
Birth and early life of al-Mahdi When al-Askari died without leaving an obvious heir, the traditions and predictions attributed to earlier Imams were largely the basis for the existence of the son of al-Askari as the twelfth Imam; see Twelver doctrine of occultation.
cell, Debra Dobkowski, and spent 16 months in prison before his conviction was overturned on appeal.
Love Needs Care: A History of San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury Free Medical Clinic and Its Pioneer Role Treating Drug-abuse Problems.
Pope Pius X in the encyclical E Supremi said that the distinguishing mark of the Antichrist is claiming to be God and taking his place.
It also faced opposition within and without the Theosophical Society, leading to years of upheaval, serious splits, and doctrinal schisms in Theosophy.
Potter spent his days wandering the streets in Council Bluffs wearing a long white robe and became a local oddity.
Sheikh Abbas Qomi narrates Ziyarat Ale Yasin in Mafatih al-Janan as the first Ziyarat for Imam Mahdi.
With Garvey’s rise to prominence in the 1910s, Bedward became convinced that God had only ever intended for him to be one of a sequence of prophets rather than a messiah — Aaron to Garvey’s Moses is how he termed it — paving the way for the younger man to deliver his people into the Promised Land.
Quautlatas promised divine intervention to return to an idealized past in which the plagues and suffering brought upon the Tepehuán by the Spanish would disappear.
There have been rumours of him dying, with some sources reporting that he died in 2001 and others saying he died in 2003.
Burials in Najaf have been documented as early as the Parthian and Sassanid eras and ancient Mesopotamian cities often had similar cemeteries, where there was an accumulation of tombs.
Others came forward and in 2000 two people were paid a total of 250,000 French Francs by the Victim Compensation Commission.
Song Zixian (宋子贤), a native of Tang County in the Sui dynasty, who was an expert in magic, and claimed to be able to transform into the form of Buddha and claimed to be an incarnation of Maitreya Buddha and staged a rebellion.
Thus, cosmopolitan activists around the globe, perceiving the IGOs as too ineffectual for global change, formed a world federalist movement.
Saf ibn Sayyad (Arabic: الصف بن الصياد), later known as Abdullah ibn Sa'id (Arabic: عبد الله بن سعيد), was an alleged claimant of prophethood during the time of Islamic prophet Muhammad and his companions who later disappeared after the Ridda wars.
A number of folk poems and stories about King Matjaž are known, the earliest ones originating in the western Slovene area of Tolmin from the 16th century.
It is a symbol of membership of a Johrei organisation and the member's dedication to Meishu-Sama and his teachings.
During the attack, another MUI official Ikhsan Abdullah stated that the attacker claimed to be God himself.
Henry further claims that in this psalm, David is acknowledging Christ's sovereignty and his (David's) subservience to him.
Sources Du'a Faraj which is attributed to Imam Mahdi, has been quoted in diverse compilations such as Konuz al-Nejah (Sheikh Tabarsi), Wasael al-Shia (of Sheikh Al-Hurr al-Aamili), Jamal al-Usbu (of Sayyed Ibn Tawus) and so on.
He went on to teach Johrei to his followers to allow them to achieve Messianity and spread the teachings across the world.
From 1924 he used the pen name "Abd-ru-shin" (originally "Abdruschin") of allegedly Persian-Arabic origin, which Bernhardt originally interpreted as meaning "The Son of the Holy Spirit", but which many later authors have translated as "Son of Light".
SOUST SOUST, aka Suprema Ordem Universal da Santa Trindade (Acronym in Portuguese for "Supreme Universal Order of the Holy Trinity") refers to the residence of Álvaro Thais.
According to Ayatollah Bahjat, the recitation of Dua Al-Faraj is the best act in order not to be destroyed in the end times.
Multiple scholars highlight the similarity between the Hemerobaptists and the Essenes, a Jewish sect that flourished during the late Second Temple period.
In their different ways, the Avars and Slavs in the Balkans, and the Sasanians and Muslims in the Levant and Northern Africa, had different models of governance and no appetite for posing as Romans.
In Arabic malḥama or malḥamat (plural malāḥim) can signify a fierce war with considerable atrocities and killing, a similar battle within such a war, bloody combat, or massacre or slaughter.
Although robbed of all of his possessions, including his demon-slaying sword, by bandits in the town of Meizixun, he eventually reached Thistle Mountain on 27 August 1847.
Despite initially amicable relations, in 1878 the two religious leaders had a dispute motivated by Sheikh Sharif's resentment of his former student's growing popularity.
He retreated into the mountain village of Gal, where he formed a personality cult around himself as the Messiah, adopting the moniker "Black Jesus".
Bolsonarism broke out in Brazil with the rise in popularity of Bolsonaro, especially during his campaign in the presidential election in 2018, which elected him as president.
This added proof in some scholars' eyes that the Jewish belief was that the coming Messiah would be a king who brought peace, and would be "called by Second Temple Jews the 'Son of God'".
Jones' father was a disabled World War I veteran who suffered from severe breathing difficulties due to injuries sustained in a chemical weapons attack.
Besides, the du'a of “Allahuma Kon LeWaliyyek al-Hujjat ibn al-Hassan (which means: O Allah, be, for Your representative, the Hujjat (proof), son of AlHassan)” is also as famous as Du'a al-Faraj by Shia Muslims.
His family retained leadership of the Babylonian exiles (Ezekiel 1:2), and his descendants were at the head of those who returned to Zion.
Ibn Babawayh in his work mentions a hadith of Ja'far al-Sadiq that says the uprising of Muhammad al-Mahdi will occur 5 days after the murder of Al-Nafs al-Zakiyyah.
Has Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) not said that he would be a Jew whereas I am a Muslim and he also said that he would not have children, whereas I have children, and he also said: verily, Allah has prohibited him to enter Mecca whereas I have performed Pilgrimage".
His face, with a neatly trimmed beard, matched a photo in a pamphlet found at the site entitled "Holy Coming", which identified him as the Mahdi.
Duanaire Ghearóid Iarla (The Poem-Book of Earl Gerald) is preserved in a fifteenth-century manuscript, the Book of Fermoy.
Yahweh was indicted on three counts of federal racketeering and extortion charges, of which he was found not guilty.
In 1972, Moon founded the International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences, a series of scientific conferences.
Iraqi officials, including Najaf deputy governor Abdel Hussein Attan, had claimed that the group had links with al-Qaeda, but given that Sunni jihadists are fiercely anti-Shia, this seemed unlikely.
Although the fall of Nanjing in 1864 marked the destruction of the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom, there were still several thousands of Taiping rebels continuing to resist Qing forces.
In an interview, Ben Ammi described his status as a spiritual leader: My anointing did not come until after we had arrived in Israel.
Policies Within the land that it controlled, the Taiping Heavenly Army established totalitarian, theocratic, and highly militarised rule.
The family were all known as Mughals within the British governmental records of India probably due to the high positions it occupied within the Mughal Empire and their courts.
Prophet's daughter, a professor of religion at the University of Florida, has argued that earlier variations of the concept appear in the works of Charles Fourier and Emanuel Swedenborg.
Books written by the Waqifites 'Ali ibn al-Hasan al-Ta'i al-Tatari (a companion of Musa al-Kadhim) named Musa al-Kadhim as the hidden Imam.
On April 24, 1840, Potter was given the Melchizedek priesthood and ordained to the priesthood office of elder by Joseph Smith.
Ziyarat Ale Yasin (Arabic: زیارة آل یاسین) is regarded as a well-known Ziyarat (piece of salutation) which is associated with Mahdi who is an eschatological redeemer of Islam that will reappear and he will rid the world of all wicked and bad things (evil).
Although the Taghlib tribe under Hudhayl ibn 'Imran pledged their allegiance and abandoned Christianity, the majority of the Banu Tamim clans rejected her call, which made Sajah give up hope of getting the support from the majority of her own kinsmen.
One central theme of the BBC documentary was again Alaya Rahm's sexual abuse allegations against Sathya Sai Baba.
The Tepehuán Revolt broke out in New Spain in 1616 when the indigenous Tepehuán attempted to break free from Spanish rule.
Iconography Krishna is represented in the Indian traditions in many ways, but with some common features.
"Be discouraged": from Hebrew: יָר֔וּץ, yā-rūts, "bruised", from the root word "crushed" (רָצַץ, ratsats), used to describe "crushed reed" (or "bruised reed") and "dim (כָּהָה, kahah) wick" (or "smoking flax") in verse 3, repeated here for rhetorical effect.
Practitioners claim to channel light towards patients by holding up the palms of their hands towards the recipient's body.
He worked as a stock broker for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter until August 1998, when he went on disability after being diagnosed with bipolar disorder.
'Peace upon thee, O son of Levi', Joshua replied, and Elijah told him that that meant that he and his father would have a place in the world to come.
Isaiah 53 is the fifty-third chapter of the Book of Isaiah in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament of the Christian Bible.
classified the syndrome into three major types to reflect the different types of interactions between a visit to Jerusalem and unusual or psychosis-related thought processes.
Death of Gershon Salomon On November 23, 2022, Gershon Salomon, founder of the Temple Mount Faithful, died.
See also Christian messianic prophecies Messianic prophecies of Jesus Related Bible parts: Isaiah 40, Isaiah 42 References Bibliography Würthwein, Ernst (1995).
After a long trial, with many witnesses, "Smith instructed the jury to ignore the statements made by witnesses not present on the night of the raid.
The story says that the ghosts are trapped inside the Ålleberg mountain, waiting for a new war to wake them up so they can fight to save the country.
When the House of David was told that Syria had allied itself with Ephraim, their hearts and the hearts of their people trembled ...
Yes, by Allah he has died, and his wealth has been distributed and his slave girls have been married.” He suspected those who claimed that his father did not die, of lying and said: “They are disbelievers in what Allah the Exalted has revealed on Muhammad.
The full Johannine development of the Father-Son relationship rests on an authentic basis in the Jesus-tradition (Mark 14:36; Matthew 11:25–26; 16:17; Luke 11:2).
Appearance of Yamani In Shia theology, five signs are guaranteed to occur before Imam al-Mahdi’s appearance.
The collection consists of 3,000 pieces of Japanese and Oriental art, of which 250 to 300 are on display at any one time.
Israel Knohl, an expert in Talmudic and biblical language at Jerusalem's Hebrew University, translated line 80 of the inscription as "In three days, live, I Gabriel com[mand] yo[u]".
From 1864 to 1868, upon his father's wishes, Ahmad worked as a clerk in Sialkot, where he would come into contact with Christian missionaries with whom he frequently engaged in debate.
He received the nickname "Pastor" because he was a reverend of the World Messianic Church of Brazil (IMMB).
Public speaking and religious activities In 1969, at the age of 21, Inri began his public life as a self-professed prophet and astrologer, introducing himself as "Iuri de Nostradamus".
Berger's response to David Singer Archived 2007-01-25 at the Wayback Machine "The Professor, Messiah, & Scandal of Calumnies".
For Thomas Aquinas (who also taught the Perfection of Christ), the "'Son of God' is God as known to God".
In a religious subculture of competing claims, Jones declared that the almighty God spoke solely to him and that he was the second coming of Christ and thus was the world's 'one and only true prophet' and savior.
A physical analysis of the stone found no evidence of modern treatment of the surface, and found the attached soil most consistent with the area east of the Lisan Peninsula of the Dead Sea.
He was severely beaten, his hair and beard were cut and he was sent back for trial to his city of origin, Quixeramobim.
Likewise, the Psalms record God's promise to establish the seed of David on his throne forever, while Isaiah and Jeremiah speak of the coming reign of a righteous king of the house of David.
In 1941, she married Lionel Harris and had one biological child, Judith, who later sued her mother and settled in Britain before predeceasing her.
52;7) 11Q13 states that Zion is the congregation of all the sons of righteousness, while Melchizedek is "Your Elohim" who will deliver the sons of righteousness from Belial.
According to Hussain, restrictions on the later Imams inevitably expanded the role and authority of their representatives, particularly their main agent (safir).
James the Brother of Jesus: The Key to Unlocking the Secrets of Early Christianity and the Dead Sea Scrolls (VikingPenguin).
In Shaker society, a spiritual "gift" could be a musical revelation, and they considered it important to record musical inspirations as they occurred.
Now, "he has received from the Father the Holy spirit, who was promised." (Acts 2:16-21.17.33) According to Isaiah, the messianic age was to have its anointed leader, the Messiah, who would be filled with the gifts of the spirit to be able to accomplish his saving work.
The account describes that the pregnancy of Narjis miraculously had no physical signs, similar to Moses' mother, and that Hakima Khatun was brought in as midwife only when the birth was due.
The most notable surviving early example is the Book of Revelation (written at some point in the 90s AD), also known as the Apocalypse of John, which was eventually included in the canon of the New Testament.
At that dinner, Willie Brown touted Jones as "what you should see every day when you look in the mirror" and said he was a combination of Martin Luther King Jr., Angela Davis, Albert Einstein, and Mao.
Krishnamurti eventually dismantled it in 1929, disavowing any further relationship with it and Theosophy in general.
Gesenius' Hebrew and Chaldee Lexicon to the Old Testament Scriptures: Numerically Coded to Strong's Exhaustive Concordance, with an English Index.
According to another account, al-Isfahani's attempt to institute Zoroastrian worship led Abu Tahir to have him murdered less than three months after proclaiming him the Mahdi.
On March 16, 1856, Potter received a call to serve as a missionary in Australia from LDS Church president Brigham Young.
Al-Masa'il : Ibn Nadim mentioned this work in his list, and its title is recorded in Ahmad ibn Muhammad al-Zurari message.
and the messenger is the Anointed one of the spirit, concerning whom Dan[iel] said, [Until an anointed one, a prince (Dan.
Witnesses of Ahn Sahng-hong Church of God One group, consisting of 11 out of the 13 churches, recognized Kim Joo-cheol as the successor and Zahng Gil-jah as the spiritual bride.
After being promoted he fought a long, indecisive campaign in 572–591 against the Byzantines in northern Mesopotamia.
See also Sufyani Khasf al-Bayda' Al-Yamani (Shiism) Nafs-e-Zakiyyah (Pure soul) Reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi Signs of the reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi Voice of God == References ==
The Prelude to Dune prequel series establishes it to be the fur of the Bjondax whales of Lankiveil, a planet controlled by the Harkonnens.
And I love that my work would be raised during my fasting." Birthday of Muhammad al-Mahdi According to Twelver Shias, Muhammad al-Mahdi, the final Shia Imām, was born on 15 Sha'ban.
The delegation before their departure embraced Islam and renounced Christianity without compunction.
See also Brazilian integralism Chavismo Conservatism in Brazil Diehard Duterte Supporters Fascism in Brazil Fujimorism Kirchnerism Lulism Military dictatorship in Brazil Trumpism References Works cited Further reading Boito, Armando, Jr.
In the middle of the ruins grows a 160-year-old spruce called "Big Monk." In popular culture Czech historical novelist Alois Jirásek portrayed the Blaník legend in his Ancient Bohemian Legends.
Early Krishnaite Bhakti pioneers included Nimbarkacharya (7th century CE), and his disciple Srinivasacharya but most emerged later, including Vallabhacharya (15th century CE) and Chaitanya Mahaprabhu.
Perpetrator The perpetrator was later identified as a man named Mustofa or Mustopa NR, a 60-year-old resident of Sukajaya Village, Pesawaran Regency, Lampung.
A man attempted to attack him with a hand grenade during a discourse at his home in Kotri, Pakistan.
Ann Lee's mission throughout New England was especially successful in converting groups who were already outside the mainstream of New England Protestantism, including followers of Shadrack Ireland.
In his book, al-Nu'mani wrote that, having noticed how the Shia followers were perplexed by the event of the occultation, he wanted to try and save them from this perplexity.
In his review of Want Two, Pitchfork's Stephen Deusner described the savior character as "Wainwright's own personal Jesus".
According to Bourne, the play was particularly popular, and philologist Du Cange gives mention of a similar play performed at Rouen.
Lalich sees this as a way that they increased their students' devotion, ensuring that their commitment became irrespective of what they saw.
So far, more than 400 have been explored—including the Schellenberg Ice Cave at an elevation of 1,570 m (5,150 ft), a show cave since 1925, and the Kolowrat Cave with a 300 m (980 ft) high dome.
Christian Kabbalah In some modern forms of Christian Kabbalah, based on Lurianic Kabbalah, Jesus is not literally the Son of God but rather a composite being like Adam.
Al-Tabari in his History of the Prophets and Kings chronicles that Musaylima also proposed to share power over Arabia with Muhammad.
An appeal court added four more years to his sentence in 2009, convicting him on all four charges of rape between 2001 and 2006.
We need not belabor the point, but the past hundred years or so have brought about an increase in knowledge unsurpassed in all human history.
After the fall of Constantinople Within decades after the capture of Constantinople by Mehmed II of the Ottoman Empire on 29 May 1453, some Eastern Orthodox people were nominating Moscow as the "Third Rome", or the "New Rome".
The ship was then searched twice by the officers and then again by the captain and neither a drum nor a drummer was found on board; eventually the phenomenon was put down to the legendary drum.
Detailed linguistic studies have been performed by Bar-Asher (2008), Rendsburg (2011), and Young (2013).
Certain sign of reappearance According to narrations, the murder of Al-Nafs al-Zakiyyah is one of the certain signs of reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi.
The incident led to further media criticism of the movement, which was placed under police surveillance.
Meanwhile, due to their adherence to Christian religion, the Tamim tribe also develop close relationship with the Christians of the Euphrates region and northern Syria.
Jesus' next statement, "and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." are interpreted as the foundation of the doctrine of papal infallibility.
The role of Sanhedrin had to be complete, meaning that the Hebrew calendar had to immediately change, which could cause division among the Jewish people Even if Maimonides was correct, because the scholars of Jerusalem were not present the election was invalid.
He will forever destroy the falsehood embodied in al-Masih ad-Dajjal (the false Messiah), the great falsifier, a figure similar to the Antichrist in Christianity, who will emerge shortly before Yawm al-Qiyāmah ('the Day of Resurrection').
Mazzini spoke of the need of Italy as a Third Rome to have imperial aspirations, to be realized in the Italian Empire.
After Pavlović's arrest in 2019, police and veterinarians raided his estate and found a number of dead animal remains and other malnutritioned animals roaming around the estate.
He also argued that there would be biological robots which would serve as sex-slaves, akin to those which Raël states that he encountered on his visit to the Elohim planet.
Silla, after nearly a millennium as a centralized kingdom was quickly declining, and Kung Ye instigated his own rebellion in present-day Kaesŏng in 898.
Also a prominent abolitionist, Spear organized the first Universalist antislavery convention and helped to oversee the stretch of the Underground Railroad which ran through Boston.
Rebellions Prophecies concerning Li Hong’s appearance have been used to legitimize numerous rebellions and insurgencies, all of which rallied around charismatic individuals claimed to be “Li Hong”.
The discourse between Origen and his Jewish counterpart does not seem to have had any consequences for either party.
The agreement called for establishing a committee consisting of a representative from Egypt, one from Britain, two Sudanese members, and a fifth member from a neutral nation, possibly India or Pakistan.
Originally the title Le'ul, which means "Your Highness", was only ever used as a form of address; however, in 1916 the title Le'ul-Ras replaced the senior office of Ras Bitwoded and so became the equivalent of a royal duke.
Gerald FitzMaurice FitzGerald (1335–1398), also known by the Irish Gaelic Gearóid Iarla (Earl Gerald), was the 3rd Earl of Desmond, in southwestern Ireland, under the first creation of that title, and a member of the Anglo-Norman dynasty of the FitzGerald, or Geraldines.
In the early 16th century the Kabbalist Abraham ben Eliezer ha-Levi suggested that the 'Rome' in the story was a small town in Galilee with the same name, and a bit later Moshe Alshich put the Messiah in paradise overlooking this town.
He rejected Confucianism and began propagating a fusion of Christianity, Daoism and millenarianism, which Hong presented as a restoration of the ancient Chinese faith in Shangdi.
Divine Truth teachings also focus on how to develop in love through an understanding of ethics and morality, and the respect of others’ free will.
Jews There are other verses in the old testament that Jews also believe in, and Ahmed al-Hasan has brought them up as his identifying text.
He ends the darkest, degenerating, and chaotic stage of the Kali Yuga to remove adharma and ushers in the Satya Yuga, while riding a white horse with a fiery sword.
Ann Lee (1736–1784), a central figure to the Shakers, who thought she "embodied all the perfections of God" in female form and considered herself in 1772 to be Christ's female counterpart.
Simple Gifts was composed in 1848 by Elder Joseph Brackett, on or about the time he moved to the Shaker community at Alfred, Maine.
Napoleon Bonaparte was believed to be still alive and hiding in Irkutsk, Russia, gathering an army to return and conquer the world.
Uses Music The King James Version of verse 6 from this chapter is cited as texts in the English-language oratorio "Messiah" by George Frideric Handel (HWV 56).
Motifs in multiple works are Marko and Ravijojla, Marko and his mother, Marko and Šarac, Marko shooting an arrow, Marko plowing the roads, the fight between Marko and Musa and Marko's death.
He himself often claimed to be a former member of Croatian elite counter-terrorist unit ATJ Lučko, but unit's members publicly refuted these claims, even saying that Pavlović embarrasses them.
The World Elijah Evangelical Mission (now known as Elijah's Ten Commandments Stone Country Korean Farmers) was a religious group founded in 1980 by a Chinese Korean man named Park Myung Hoo (朴鳴呼), with five levels of membership: God, Angel, General Secretary, Chief, and Director.
Between 1990 and 2001, he served eleven years of an eighteen-year sentence on a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conviction after he and several other Nation of Yahweh members were convicted of conspiracy for their ex-followers' role in more than a dozen murders.
'The Greatest Battle') is an apocalyptic war set to occur in the end times according to Islamic eschatology.
Buddhists believe that there will come a time of Dharma decline in which social order and morality will decline and the human lifespan will also decline.
References External links "Japanese court throws book at foot cult", Salon "Edited articles on the "Foot Cult" of Japan", Fullerton
Al-Nawadir: In his list, Sheikh Tusi mentioned a work by Bazanti with this title, and introduced Yahya ibn Zakaria ibn shiban as its narrator.
He led his followers into Garveyism by finding the charismatic metaphor: one the high priest, the other prophet, both leading the children of Israel out of exile.
PolitiFact.com has analyzed the elements in this false claim and debunked each one: The word Antichrist does not appear in the Book of Revelation (though it does appear in 1 John and 2 John); the Book of Revelation instead refers to The Beast.
In a 1949 book entitled Christianity after Freud, Benjamin Gilbert Sanders draws parallels between the theory of psychoanalysis and Christian religion, referring to Jesus Christ as "the Great Psychiatrist" and Christians' love for Christ as "a more positive form of the Transference".
Hence, he argued that the reformers "had to leave them in order that we might come to Christ." The ministers of the Church are described from a passage from Ephesians, and they consisted of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and doctors.
Darwin later wrote that he was convinced that he "could have written out the whole of the Evidences with perfect correctness, but not of course in the clear language of Paley.
Soteriology In the centuries leading up to the Reformation, an "Augustinian Renaissance" sparked renewed interest in the thought of Augustine of Hippo (354–430, who is widely regarded as the most influential patristic figure of the Reformation.
In 1993, during a pilgrimage to Agrigento, Sicily, he appealed to the Mafiosi: "I say to those responsible: 'Convert!
Some instances are serious expressions about God and especially His divine intervention in the affairs of mankind, commonly known as Providence.
Numbers and percentages The most basic breakdown of the above data in this page indicates that 86% of the House identify as Christian, 5% of the House identify as Jewish, 3% of the House identify with other religions, <1% of the House is unaffiliated, and 4% of the House have unknown affiliation.
Here I Stand: A Life of Martin Luther (1950) 386 pages Bayer, Oswald, Martin Luther's Theology: A Contemporary Interpretation (2008) 354 pages Brendler, Gerhard.
Burke's view that religion is the source of morality led him to view its absence as a perilous possibility.
The court under Chief Justice John Marshall decided in favor of the Cherokee: imposition of Georgia law on the Cherokee was unconstitutional.
The various editions of that work span nearly his entire career as a reformer, and the successive revisions of the book show that his theology changed very little from his youth to his death.
Trump was also a consistent viewer of televangelists Jimmy Swaggart, Billy Graham, David Jeremiah, and singer Bill Gaither, watching the former three's televised sermons hourly, often into the late evening.
Washington was an officer in the Freemasons, an organization which, at the time Washington lived, required that its members "will never be a stupid Atheist nor an irreligious Libertine", which meant that they should believe in God, regardless of other religious convictions or affiliations.
Following mounting criticism from Jewish groups, Trump's campaign responded that "Trump is right" and that the Democratic Party "has turned into a full-blown anti-Israel, antisemitic, pro-terrorist cabal".
According to him, "Religions have been basis of the tyranny of kings and sultans." He stated that religion should be in conformity with reason, science and logic.
Shakespeare's schooling Four of the six schoolmasters at the grammar school of Shakespeare's youth, King's New School in Stratford, were Catholic sympathisers, and Simon Hunt, who may have been one of Shakespeare's teachers, later became a Jesuit priest.
To this the pontiff responded in a private letter, also published in the Jesuit journal "Civilta Cattolica", denouncing antisemitism: The Supreme Pontiff....
To Darwin, natural selection produced the good of adaptation but removed the need for design, and he could not see the work of an omnipotent deity in all the pain and suffering such as the ichneumon wasp paralysing caterpillars as live food for its eggs.
He also went on to say, "Jesus I could see, that's a historical character." See also Outline of the Beatles The Beatles timeline The Beatles in India "More popular than Jesus" References External links St Peter's church website (Lennon's former church, where he met McCartney)
Rousseau's romantic fallacy that it is society which corrupts man, not man who corrupts society, places a flattering gauze between ourselves and reality.
In an interview conducted in September 1980, three months before his death, Lennon told Playboy journalist David Sheff: "People always got the image I was an anti-Christ or antireligion.
There he instituted martial law because he worried about the loyalty of the city's Creole and Spanish inhabitants.
He devotes five sections of his Historia Nova to the emperor (1.18–22) — more than Alexander Severus, who only gets half a section (1.8).
During the Revolutionary War it has been suggested that Washington was again baptized by the Baptist chaplain to the Continental Army John Gano at Valley Forge.
But, when I went to Gettysburg and looked upon the graves of our dead heroes who had fallen in defense of their country, I then and there consecrated myself to Christ.
The fusion of political Christianity with Trump's own views has been described as "Christian Trumpism".
Religion and the State should be inextricably linked, in his view, as the state was indispensable in providing justice to the people, enforcing Islamic law by enjoining good and forbidding evil, unifying the people and preparing a society conducive to the worship of God.
Other indications have been detected in the sympathetic view of religious life expressed in the phrase "thrice blessed", scholastic theology in The Phoenix and the Turtle, sympathetic allusions to English Jesuit Edmund Campion in Twelfth Night, and many other instances.
Rizal articulated that the only genuine faith was "blind faith." In short, the more people tried to explain to him what and who God was, the more he was convinced that they did not know what they were talking about.
Church leaders like Smith often attempted to avoid the topic and took a public position of neutrality during the Missouri years.
He argued that because the Church was "built up with the strong and stable matter of the gospel of liberty", it had nothing to fear from allowing other Christian groups to worship as they wished.
According to Ali, "hearts and souls have no color", and it was wrong of Elijah Muhammad to have talked of "white devils".
No going to the banks and borrowing from, in some cases, a fine banker – and in some cases, Shylocks and bad people", invoking the trope of Jews as greedy moneylenders.
I do not think the Red Indians had any right to say, 'American continent belongs to us and we are not going to have any of these European settlers coming in here'.
His years in Peru gave him personal knowledge of political violence and inequality; at times, as a missionary, he traveled by horse on difficult roads to reach isolated communities in the valleys of Lambayeque.
By connecting natural religion with a primitive state of nature, Burke suggests the anti-social and degenerating implications of deism.
He differed in important ways from the Calvinism with which he is associated, particularly concerning the doctrines of grace and predestination.
Are you the greatest?" Cheadle later declared in 2019 that he was so unhappy with Trump's "white superiority complex" and the "pro-white" Republican Party's usage of Blacks as "political pawns" that he was leaving the Republican Party.
Pio XII, Discorsi Ai Medici collected by Fiorenzo Angelini, Roma, 1959, 725 pages, Italian, medical theology and morality.
no single point in common with the perjury of the Jews." See also History of the Jews in the Roman Empire External links Jewish Virtual Library Simple to Remember (Judaism Online) website == References ==
Darwin contributed to the church, helped with parish assistance and proposed a benefit society which became the Down Friendly Society with Darwin as guardian and treasurer.
The unaffiliated are extremely under-represented, while Jews, Presbyterians, Lutherans and Episcopalians are particularly over-represented.
Reaction to the Zionist movement Nahum Sokolov, author, journalist and board member of the Zionist World Congress, came to Rome to gain support for the plan of Jewish settlement in Palestine.
If anything, 2001 shows that what some people call "god" is simply an acceptable term for their ignorance.
Downe parish Although he is commonly portrayed as being in conflict with the Church of England, Darwin was supportive of the local parish church.
This created problems inside and outside the Church but also resulted in a clearing of the air and in much attention to his utterings, which otherwise may not have materialized.
Beatification controversy The beatification of Pope Pius IX, by Pope John Paul II, revived the controversy over the Pius IX and the Jews, including unfounded claims that Pius IX had "abused" Mortara, based on accounts of Edgardo hiding under the cassock of Pius IX.
One of them, in Nissen's hand, says, "The priests declined to come because the sick person himself did not send for them." According to Halliwell, "A later annotation states that although Mozart did not receive the last rites (presumably absolution and Holy Communion), he was given extreme unction.
He embraced the Hare Krishna tradition and, in the summer of 1969, produced the single "Hare Krishna Mantra", performed by the devotees of the London Radha Krishna Temple.
Together, they left Eastern banks unable to pay specie to the British when they recalled their loans to address their economic problems in international trade.
God punishes them by casting them out of Eden and exposing them to the pain of the world, but he promises them that his Son will descend and bring about their salvation.
In 1611 and again in 1625, a decree prohibited any discussion of the matter, although it was often informally skirted by the publication of commentaries on Thomas Aquinas.
235–38) are alleged to have issued general rescripts against the religion and targeted its clergy, but the evidence for their acts is obscure and contested.
In addition, his criticism of the rabbinic interpretation of the Scriptures in part violated his own exegetical principles.
Instead, he wishes to keep Christians from either relying upon or despairing because of their own conduct or attitude.
He argues that Shakespeare probably included the allusion for the sake of topicality, trusting that his audience would have heard of Garnet's pamphlet on equivocation, and not from any hidden sympathy for the man or his cause – indeed the portrait is not a sympathetic one.
The Fundamental Accord of 1993 remains unsettled because of disputes over property rights and tax exemptions.
The qualities attributed to Providence by Washington reveal that he conceived of Providence as an "Omnipotent," "benign," and "beneficent" Being that by "invisible workings" in "Infinite Wisdom" dispensed justice in the affairs of mankind.
The reason was books were too removed from actual reality as these were written by people, interpreted by others, rewritten by people, obscured by others, etc.
They are the result of a life of inquiry & reflection, and very different from that anti-Christian system imputed to me by those who know nothing of my opinions.
Prevost suggested that the participation and co-responsibility of all the faithful could address the polarization in the church.
In March 2008, a survey conducted by Pew Research Center found that 10% of respondents believed that rumor.
Ibn Taymiyya strongly condemned this as shirk and compared it to the Meccan opponents of the Muhammad, writing:"If he says, “I ask him so that he may intercede with God for me, because he is closer to God than me.
Conversely, the thought of having to face a dreaded "Black Muslim" must have been at the very least a slightly daunting proposition for many of Ali's opponents, especially the ones he christened "Uncle Toms." Notes == References ==
If not, then we would not permit them [to live among us], for Christ commands us to be baptized and believe in Him, even though we cannot now believe so strongly as we should, God is still patient with us.
And the Baghdad vizier known as Al-’Alqami; it was he and others like him who greatly aided them against the Muslims, as well as those who were in Al-Sham’s Aleppo and other rafidha who were the fiercest collaborators in fighting Muslims.
He decided to enter the Augustinian order in the eighth grade after visits by priests of multiple different religious orders to the family home, later saying the Salesians of Don Bosco "came in second place".
See also Classical mechanics Clockwork universe theory Religious and philosophical views of Albert Einstein References Further reading Eamon Duffy, "Far from the Tree" The New York Review of Books, vol.
On July 29, Al Sharpton, a Black activist for civil rights, tweeted: "Arrived in DC from Atlanta, headed to Baltimore.
He linked the conservation of a state religion with the preservation of citizens’ constitutional liberties and highlighted Christianity’s benefits not only to the believer’s soul but also to political arrangements.
Background Not long after the death of Constantine I in 329, the Roman imperial government initiated restrictive measures against Jewish privileges and proselytism.
In September 2012, West donated $1,000 to Barack Obama's re-election campaign, and in August 2015, he donated $2,700 to Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign.
Schudrich praised John Paul II for condemning anti-Semitism as a sin, which no previous pope had done.
Its goal was complete separation of church and state; it declared the opinions of men to be beyond the jurisdiction of the civil magistrate.
While in Washington, DC, he attended Vermont Avenue Christian Church, which is now National City Christian Church.
He expressed his belief that he "probably should make it" to Heaven, affirming that he is "not a perfect candidate, but I did a hell of a lot of good for perfect people." Later that month, he reaffirmed that his prior remarks were in jest, stating, "I was just having fun.
The 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen guaranteed freedom of religion and free exercise of worship, provided that it did not contradict public order.
His guiding principle was the application of the Theodosian Code which should be done strictly and impartially administered.
Some other passages he marked offer glimpses of his devotional practices and reveal distinct tensions in his personality.
He also commented on people who saw religious or spiritual connotations in 2001: It's simply not there, religion and spirituality.
In the same interview, he also blames the poor critical reaction to 2001 as follows: Perhaps there is a certain element of the lumpen literati that is so dogmatically atheist and materialist and Earth-bound that it finds the grandeur of space and the myriad mysteries of cosmic intelligence anathema.
Astonishing, too, that the new pope deliberately abstains from solemn gestures and high-flown rhetoric and speaks in the language of the people.
Ministers at four of the churches Washington often attended wrote that he regularly left services before communion.
His identification with Independence Day implied his selection of the civil calendar, in which AH 1296 lasts from 13 March 1880 to 12 March 1881.
Discourse around Trump's relationship with Judaism in America was revived later in his first presidency.
On the other hand, Ibn Taymiyya has also been regarded by various scholars as "a literalist and reactionary" and as the "thirteenth-century scourge of reason", who saw it as his mission to purify Islam of all inauthentic outgrowths and return to the purity of Muhammad's time.
In a diary entry of 28 December 1939, Goebbels wrote that "the Fuhrer passionately rejects any thought of founding a religion.
Burke's religious thought was grounded in his belief that religion is the foundation of civil society.
When asked by Michel Ciment in an interview if he had a religious upbringing, Kubrick replied: "No, not at all." In Kubrick's interview with Craig McGregor, he said: 2001 would give a little insight into my metaphysical interests...
Two press conferences were held in the US, where both Brian Epstein and Lennon expressed their regret that Lennon's words had been taken out of context and offence taken.
After 2002, Paula White became a close confidante and unofficial pastor to Trump, his family, and his company, as he was interested in her pragmatic and informal approach to faith and devotion.
For instance, during his Table Talks, he references Mechthild of Magdeburg's The Flowing Light of the Godhead, an example of the pre-reformation piety which Luther was immersed in that associate the Devil with excrement.
48–50, and Pius XI's letter to the cardinal archbishops of Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Quebec, and Buenos Aires, pp.
In person Obama has publicly responded to questions regarding his religion on more than one occasion.
As noted in the foreword of The Occult Roots of Nazism by Rohan Butler, Goodrick-Clarke is more cautious in assessing the influence of Lanz von Liebenfels on Hitler than Joachim Fest in his biography of Hitler.
White delivered the invocation prayer at Trump's first inauguration and joined the White House staff in 2019 to work on religious outreach issues.
Kobler's claim was published in The New Judaea, the official periodical of the World Zionist Organization.
In 1912, Mortara had testified in writing that he thought Pius IX should be canonized: "I am firmly convinced, not only by the deposition I have given, but by the entire life of my august protector and father, that the Servant of God Pius IX is a saint.
Jews in Rome were required to live in a ghetto, a separated quarter of the city, and had very limited rights.
The diaries also report that Hitler believed Jesus "also wanted to act against the Jewish world domination.
how this at first sight very attractive conception fails to grasp not only the substance of Christianity but also that of true humanity.
As People's Commissar for Nationalities, Stalin was the cabinet member responsible for minority affairs.
2060 Between the time he wrote his 2060 prediction (about 1704) until his death in 1727, Newton conversed, both first-hand and by correspondence, with other theologians of his time.
They believe, with Asquith, that the poem's "bird of loudest lay" represents the composer William Byrd and that the crow is the Jesuit Henry Garnet.
He also fought his first duel, accusing another lawyer, Waightstill Avery, of impugning his character.
Others, sometimes termed Judaizers, felt that Gentile Christians needed to fully comply with the Mosaic Law.
The original Greek is lost; it is largely through Jerome's Latin and through an Armenian translation unrelated to Jerome that the substance of the original survives.
He argued that opinions of any jurist, including the school founders were not proofs, and decried the prevalent legal approach; wherein the Fuqaha confined themselves to the opinions within their legal school without seeking the Scriptures.
The religious affiliation in the United States Senate reflects the variety of religion in the United States, despite not being in line with the religious affiliation of the general population.
His December 1864 encyclical Quanta cura contained the Syllabus of Errors, an appendix that listed and condemned as heresy 80 propositions, many on political topics, and firmly established his pontificate in opposition to secularism, rationalism, and modernism in all its forms.
Visit to Israel However, amid claims that the Pope was ruining Jewish-Catholic relations, the Israeli ambassador to the Holy See stated that "the climate is good" and said he believed there was "a lot of potential for the cooperation" between the Vatican and Israel.
At Villanova, he took elective courses in Hebrew and Latin, read the writings of Saint Augustine, and discussed the work of theologian Karl Rahner with other students.
Karen Armstrong notes in A History of God that "not all psychoanalysts agreed with Freud's view of God," citing Alfred Adler, who believed God was a projection which had been "helpful to humanity", and C.G.
Historian Nathan Schur in Napoleon and the Holy Land (2006) believes that Napoleon intended the proclamation for propaganda and to build support for his campaign among the Jews in those regions.
He said in 2015 that he still attended Marble Collegiate Church, a congregation of the Reformed Church in America and the United Church of Christ; the church said in a statement to CNN that he "is not an active member"; Peale's son said that he had not seen Trump at the church for "several years".
He's a Palestinian." Trump's remarks were condemned by rights groups as antisemitic and anti-Palestinian.
Legacy Due to Gregory's immense authority, his affirmation of Pauline teaching and the application of Roman law had a significant influence on Catholic policy towards the Jews for the rest of the Middle Ages, though it was often heeded more in principle than in practice.
Along with his wife Olivia, son Dhani and close friends, members of the Radha Krishna Temple were at his bedside when Harrison died in Los Angeles on 29 November 2001.
Additionally, Holmes states that Washington's "dedication to Christianity was clear in his own mind" as to imply that Washington's own religious self-analysis should be deemed at least as noteworthy as that of critics who claim he was unorthodox.
During his time in Peru, Prevost met and appreciated Dominican priest and theologian Gustavo Gutierrez, a pioneer of liberation theology.
The work of the Reformation was endangered by the potential outbreak of religious and social disorder.
Dabney, for example, called it “not only incomprehensible but impossible.” Other beliefs Mary Calvin had a positive view of Mary, but rejected the Roman Catholic veneration of her.
His emphasis on joy (Joy of the Gospel, Rejoice and be glad) "is an antidote to the disenchantment and melancholy of the world today", the joy of "doing good with the aim of reviving the spirit of the church".
Mark Edmundson comments that in writing Moses and Monotheism, Freud, while not abandoning his atheism, perceived for the first time a value in the abstract form of monotheism—the worship of an invisible God, without Jesus or saints—practiced by the Jews.
After the incapacitated Lenin's death on 21 January 1924, the party officially maintained the principle of collective leadership, but Stalin soon outmaneuvered his rivals in the Central Committee's Politburo.
In our daily lives, we try to respect religion, but we don't give preferential treatment." Interviews by Nedra Pickler of the Associated Press found that students of all faiths have been welcome there since before Obama's attendance.
This tax continued during his reign and some historians credit the emperor Julian with abolishing this in 362.
Although suicide is considered sinful in traditional Islamic law, Ibn Taymiyya distinguished between inghimas and suicide, asserting that the former is Martyrdom.
Otzar Hatefillah, quoting Mahzor Vitri, pointedly denies this claim, offering instead Simeon ben Shetach as the probable author.
During a debate of Democratic presidential candidates on January 15, 2008, in Las Vegas, Nevada, the moderator, Brian Williams, asked Obama about the rumor that he was "trying to hide the fact that he is a Muslim".
Fontein, an Anabaptist preacher, in Amsterdam in December of 1774, who related to him that he had visited England in 1738 and had heard several anecdotes about Newton from professors or fellows at Cambridge.
This verse is referring to the fate of those who reject the message of Islam, including both the People of the Scripture (Jews and Christians) and polytheists (those who worship multiple gods).
He called for environmental protection, supporting the installation of solar panels and electric vehicles.
Musk later acknowledged the tweet as a mistake, saying "I handed a loaded gun to those who hate me and to those who are antisemitic and for that I am quite sorry" and described his tweet as very foolish.
"Clarifying divine discourse in early modern science: divinity, physico-theology, and divine metaphysics in Isaac Newton's chymistry." The Seventeenth Century 32.2 (2017): 191-215.
In numerous speeches Catholic teaching is related to various aspects of life, education, medicine, politics, war and peace, the life of saints, Mary, the mother of God, things eternal and temporal.
The World Jewish Congress subsequently praised the visit, calling it a milestone for understanding between Christians and Jews.
This led to a story in The Miami Herald just before the fight disclosing that Ali had joined the Nation of Islam, which nearly caused the bout to be canceled.
It is not our intention to curtail freedom of worship, but rather to ensure that matters of religion and those of the state do not become intertwined.
This is not to say that Johnson was passive in his religious observance; instead, he was an 18th-century evangelical, which, as he defines in his Dictionary, means "Agreeable to gospel; consonant to the Christian law contained in the holy gospel".
." The outside world was not ignorant of these developments, and even the leading members of the Communist Party USA complained about the situation.
(1986), authors compared how the religious press called Christian singer Sheila Walsh "sexy", while labeling "porn queen Madonna 'born again'".
Augustine, the greatest influence on his personal spirituality is the book, The Practice of the Presence of God, by Brother Lawrence, which is about developing an awareness of the presence of God in everyday life and continually conversing with him.
Leo has affirmed the teachings of his predecessors, including social teachings and the climate policy of Pope Francis.
His insistence of using the word of God did not preclude him from using the councils or the Church Fathers in his arguments.
An organised missionary work, Luther added, is no longer necessary, especially since the apostolate and the accompanying vocation to world mission (Matthew 28:18-20) no longer exist.
Russell asserts that, after the Second World War, modern Greek theologians have re-engaged with the Greek Fathers with the help of diaspora theologians and Western patristic scholars.
Calvin's Defensio sanae et orthodoxae doctrinae de sacramentis (A Defense of the Sober and Orthodox Doctrine of the Sacrament) was his response in 1555.
Kendall interpreted Calvin as believing that Christ died for all people, but intercedes only for the elect.
Most historians argue he was prepared to delay conflicts for political reasons and that his intentions were to eventually eliminate Christianity in Germany, or at least reform it to suit a Nazi outlook.
They are dry and formally organized because Johnson did not approve of the emotionally charged rhetoric of 17th century preachers at the pulpit.
During Annie's long illness Darwin had read books by Francis William Newman, a Unitarian evolutionist who called for a new post-Christian synthesis and wrote that "the fretfulness of a child is an infinite evil".
Mauss and Bush found that all references to Joseph Smith supporting the doctrine were made long after his death and seem to be the result of an attempted reconciliation of the contrasting beliefs and policies of Brigham Young and Joseph Smith.
"Isaac Newton, heretic: the strategies of a Nicodemite." British journal for the history of science 32.4 (1999): 381–419.
Persian Gulf War Between 1990 and 1991, a 34-nation coalition led by the United States waged a war against Saddam Hussein's Iraq, which had invaded and annexed Kuwait.
Obama was baptized into the United Church of Christ (UCC) denomination and formally joined it in 1988.
Trump made comments following a 2017 white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that were seen by critics as implying moral equivalence between the white supremacist marchers and those who protested against them as "very fine people".
Post-Beatles After the break-up of the Beatles, Lennon continued to reject religious teaching and organised religions.
However, West denied being the designer and disavowed the effort, tweeting "My eyes are now wide open and now realize I've been used to spread messages I don't believe in.
405–415, ISBN 978-1-4051-4908-2 van Wyhe, John (2008), Charles Darwin: gentleman naturalist: A biographical sketch, Darwin Online External links "Darwin Correspondence Project " Darwin and Religion: an introduction".
Jewish orphans controversy In 2005, Corriere della Sera published a document dated 20 November 1946 on the subject of Jewish children baptized in war-time France.
The idea itself may have originated from Thomas Corbet (1773–1804), an Anglo-Irish Protestant emigree who, as a member of the Society of United Irishmen, was an ally of the Republican regime, engaged in revolutionary activities against the Dublin Castle administration and served in the French Army.
In Women, Body, Illness (2003), Madonna is credited with popularizing Ashtanga Yoga as a way to blend spiritual awareness with body fitness.
Despite testimony of Jefferson's church attendance, there is no evidence that he was ever confirmed or was a communicant.
Governor Lilburn Boggs issued Executive Order 44, ordering the members of the church to leave Missouri or face death.
During this period, he also learned Italian and also participated in the October 1983 protests against the placement of BGM-109G Gryphon missiles at Comiso Airport which occurred across Europe at this time.
Representative Jim McGovern of Massachusetts said, "America's president is a racist and this is the proof.
After Trump won the 2016 presidential election, Dawkins described him as "an unqualified, narcissistic, misogynistic sick joke".
He follows the main body of the chapter with an appendix addressing the articles by York, Crouzel, and Pohlsander, "Philip the Arab and Christianity", and noting the judgments of the scholars who reviewed his draft.
He has also refused to block Russian state media on SpaceX's Starlink satellites in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Some commonplace Christian allusions, involving no physical manifestation of religion, in Quarto editions of the history cycle, were replaced with harmless references to pagan gods when the First Folio appeared.
The Council of Nicaea is the first major attempt by Christians to define orthodoxy for the whole state.
The band was threatened, their records were publicly burned, and some radio stations refused to play their songs.
He begins (at 6.41.1) by describing the pogroms which began a year before Decius's decree of 250; that is, in 249, under Philip.
Encouraged by Rome, Catholic lay people began to participate again in pilgrimages, spiritual retreats, baptisms and confessions and Catholic associations of all kinds.
Newton showed considerable interest in millenarianism, as he wrote about both the Book of Daniel and the Book of Revelation in his Observations Upon the Prophecies.
Following the Letter to the Hebrews, Benedict describes Jesus death, along with the Eucharist, in which the blood of Jesus is offered to the Father, as the perfect realization of the Day of Atonement (cf.
The theology of Pope Benedict XVI, as promulgated during his pontificate, consists mainly of three encyclical letters on love (2005), hope (2007), and "charity in truth" (2009), as well as apostolic documents and various speeches and interviews.
In an interview for The Saturday Evening Post, in August of that year, he stated that the Beatles were "completely anti-Christ.
Tridentine Mass In 2007, Benedict issued Summorum Pontificum which is widely seen as an attempt to heal the rift with the SSPX.
At 7.10.3, Dionysius implies that Alexander Severus (emperor from 222 to 235) and Philip were both openly Christian.
Representative who had recently left the Republican Party, called the statements "racist and disgusting".
The dogma of the bodily assumption of the Virgin Mary was preceded by the 1946 encyclical Deiparae Virginis Mariae, which requested all Catholic bishops to express their opinion on a possible dogmatization.
Herndon, an advocate of Darwin, said Lincoln thought the works of authors like Darwin and Spencer "entirely too heavy for an ordinary mind to digest" but he read and was "interested ...
Francis has additionally reached out to the Pentecostal churches, which some have called "a new and heretofore scarcely imaginable step forward".
His 1971 single "Imagine" suggests that religious belief can be divisive and that an obsessive concern with heaven can prevent us from living fully in the moment.
To observe, as his daughter Svetlana has, that 'Stalin did not like Jews,' does not tell us much, since he 'did not like' any group: His hatreds and suspicions knew no limits; even party members from his native Georgia were not exempt.
Its periodical, today known as New Humanist magazine, was famously seen at the top of his reading pile at the time of his death.
Taylor would be remembered by Darwin as "the Devil's Chaplain", a warning example of an outcast from society who had challenged Christianity and had been imprisoned for blasphemy.
In 1998 he issued "We Remember: A Reflection on the Shoah" which outlined his thinking on the Holocaust.
"Left" refers to the Historical Left (referred to also as Democrats) of Agostino Depretis and Francesco Crispi.
The controversy also attracted attention from outside the Jewish community with German Chancellor Angela Merkel calling on Benedict to issue a "very clear" rejection of Holocaust denial.
Buddhism Critics remembered that in March 1997 Cardinal Ratzinger predicted that Buddhism would, over the coming century, replace Marxism as the main "enemy" of the Catholic Church.
In his seminal 1930 work The Myth of the Twentieth Century, Rosenberg wrote: "We now realize that the central supreme values of the Roman and the Protestant Churches ...
In 2014, Musk described himself politically as "half Democrat, half Republican" and "somewhere in the middle, socially liberal and fiscally conservative".
He mandated a reform of monastic discipline and outlawed century old practices, by which men and women were given eternal vows and forced to stay in the convent or monastery without prior probation periods.
In particular, it was debated as to whether Gentile converts needed to be circumcised or observe the Judean dietary laws.
Rather than force a man's conscience, government should recognize the persuasive force of the gospel." Notes References Barker, Arthur.
"For the first time in mainstream culture", she brought religious symbolism into pop music, said Gail Walker from Belfast Telegraph.
In the 5th century, Martianus Capella described a world inhabited by spirits, satyrs, etc: The places inaccessible to men are populated by a crowd of Longaevi who inhabit the forests, woods and sylvan sanctuaries, lakes, springs and rivers.
Transforming the animal soul While the animal soul is still attached to worldly, physical pleasures, it is synonymous with the yetzer hara, the evil inclination.
Thetan has been described as: The thetan is immortal and is possessed of capabilities well in excess of those hitherto predicted for man.
Eventually, they lost their memory of their true nature, along with the associated spiritual and creative powers.
MacDougall and his experiments are explicitly mentioned in the 1978 documentary film Beyond and Back, and episode five of the first season of the 2011 television series Dark Matters: Twisted But True.
Philosophy In philosophy, the notion of an unconscious spirit emerged in the course of history in the context of philosophical romanticism and its mystical and neoplatonic sources.
Whilst the body and mind require a jiva to function, the jiva's awareness and existence is not dependant on anything.
1650–1716) includes the following description of the sin-eating ritual in his Letter on Leland's Collectanea, i.
According to this theory, women and the lower animals were created only in order to provide a habitat for degraded souls.
In this passage, the Apostle Paul divides men into three categories based on their responses to apostolic teaching: those who are spiritual (pneumatikos, 2.13, 15; 3.1), those who are soulish (psychikós; 2.14) and the Corinthians who are carnal (sarkivós; 3.1, 3).
The pneuma, inhaled from the outside air, rushes through the arteries till it reaches the various centres, especially the brain and the heart, and there causes thought and organic movement.
Among the Greeks Later, during the contest of Achilles and Hector in the Iliad, Zeus, weary from the battle, hung up his golden scales and in them set twin Keres, "two fateful portions of death"; this, then, is known as the kerostasia.
He first recorded his inner experiences (dreams, visions, fantasies) in the Black Books, which are basically the records of this self-experiment.
The Lutheran dogmatic tradition that followed was decidedly traducian, with Johann Gerhard, David Hollatz, Johannes Andreas Quenstedt all clearly articulating traducianism.
This belief of pre-mortal existence, the manner in which mankind existed before entering mortality is an important church doctrine, and is believed to support the existence of separate and distinct personages as seen within their doctrine of the Godhead (Mormonism).
Also, in commentaries based on the Hadith and tradition, using the two terms interchangeably is very common.
He cites the Zuozhuan (534 BCE, see below) using the lunar jishengpo 既生魄 to mean "With the first development of a fetus grows the vegetative soul".
The manuscript was not cited by Tiendelenburg, Torstrik, Biehl, Apelt, and Ross in his critical editions of the treatise On the Soul.
The film The Possession (2012), directed by Ole Bornedal, is a supernatural horror film centered around the concept of a dybbuk.
Gallery See also Allhallowtide Eternal Rest From God We Came, From God We Return Honorifics for the dead in Judaism Maa Kheru Rest in power Sit tibi terra levis List of Latin phrases References External links Media related to Requiescat in pace at Wikimedia Commons
No separate enshrinement of the mitama of a kami has taken place since the rationalization and systematization of Shinto actuated by the Meiji Restoration.
Battle with the animal soul In the Tanya In the Tanya, Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi stated that the nefesh ha'elokit is "literally a part of God above." This is supported by quoting the morning prayer "Elokai neshamah", which says "the soul You gave me is pure.
Like the physical body (ẖt), the heart was a necessary part of judgement in the afterlife and it was to be carefully preserved and stored within the mummified body with a heart scarab carefully secured to the body above it to prevent it from telling tales.
When a friend asked Zi Chan to explain ghosts, he gave what Yu calls "the locus classicus on the subject of the human soul in the Chinese tradition".
In some Jewish communities, additional devotional practices developed around this belief, including praying at the tombs of revered sages, or reciting the Song of Songs and selected Psalms (31, 32, 70, 72, and 124) for forty consecutive days.
Earth, by spontaneous generation, produces pygmies guarding the treasures beneath the mountain; water produces undines; fire, salamanders; air, sylphs.
Aristotle says that the passive intellect receives the intelligible forms of things, but that the active intellect is required to make the potential knowledge into actual knowledge, in the same way that light makes potential colours into actual colours.
Although subjects persuaded themselves they were unlikely to be biased, their introspective reports did not sway the assessments of observers.
Within this soul dualism, every human has both an ethereal hun 魂 "spiritual soul; spirit; mood" that leaves the body after death and a substantive po 魄 "physical soul; spirit; vigor" that remains with the corpse.
The duality is also seen in the healing traditions of Austronesian shamans, where illnesses are regarded as a "soul loss" and thus to heal the sick, one must "return" the "free soul" (which may have been stolen by an evil spirit or got lost in the spirit world) into the body.
The writing continues with a description of the soul's journey towards spiritual renewal and salvation.
It may be very useful to have a true belief about, say, the best way to get from London to Oxford, but such a belief does not qualify as knowledge; it is not possible for the soul to possess such factually contingent propositions for all eternity.
In Christian theological anthropology, bipartite refers to the view that a human being is composed of two distinct components, material and immaterial, body and soul.
The argument for the existence of the agent intellect in Chapter V perhaps due to its concision has been interpreted in a variety of ways.
She is to utilize all of her wiles and techniques to ensnare the prince, as anything less would not be a true test.
This phase is when he stated that the soul was located slightly above the optic chiasm, in the anterior portion of the 3rd ventricle.
When rural Taiwanese perform ancestral sacrifices at home, they naturally think of the ling-hun in the tablet; when they take offerings to the cemetery, they think of it in the grave; and when they go on shamanistic trips, they think of it in the yin world.
Sadra's ontological views about the creation of soul were sharply in contrast with the assumptions of Greek philosophers who considered the spirit as a primordial-immaterial and heavenly existent.
They define a soulmate as a distinct soul with whom an individual has shared multiple lifetimes in different roles—including those of friend, colleague, or spouse—brought together for the purpose of mutual growth or a shared mission.
(23:12–14) ...We created you from dust, then from a drop of fluid (nutfah), then a clinging form ('alaqah), then a lump of flesh (mudghah), both shaped and unshaped: We mean to make Our power clear to you.
This stands in stark contrast to the opposing doctrine known as empiricism, which posits that all knowledge is derived from experience and sensory perception.
With the human soul as its overriding subject, several general themes are treated: (1) the existence and nature of the human soul; (2) the relationship between the soul and the personal ego; (3) the relationship of one human soul to another; and (4) the relationship of the human soul to God.
2 (I gave you) milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able (to receive it), for even now you are not yet able, 3 for you are still carnal (sarkikoí).
They were associated with the Lares, Lemures, Genii, and Di Penates as deities (di) that pertained to domestic, local, and personal cult.
Aristotle holds that the soul (psyche, ψυχή) is the form, or essence of any living thing; it is not a distinct substance from the body that it is in.
It was thought to be one of the three parts of the human soul that contained the "thoughts, cogitations, desires, imaginations that were impressed upon the mind at the time of death" as well as lust and anger.
The Mahavedalla-sutta mentions three modes of self-continuity: sensual self-continuity (kama-bhava), fine-material mode (rupa-bhava), and immaterial self-continuity (arupa-bhava), the latter two take place among those who practise absorption meditations (jhana) and become brahmas.
If "Rest in peace" is used in an imperative mood, it would be "Requiesce in pace" (acronym R.I.P.) in the second person singular, or "Requiescite in pace" in the second person plural.
The heart organ played a role in mediating the exchange of the blood which was in the vein and the air in the arteries.
Also, in the Nicene Creed, the Son was generated, not created, and the Holy Ghost proceeds from the Father.
One could likewise attribute the source of the dichotomist view with Greek dichotomy (matter and spirit); some writers have argued for such a connection." New Testament Trichotomists believe that a tripartite view of man is clearly taught throughout the New Testament.
According to his account, humans were originally androgynous beings with four arms, four legs, and a single head with two faces.
Therefore, her body weight usually does not have a substantial effect on when movements are initially perceived.
So the notion shifts." In a psychostasia on an Athenian red-figure vase of about 460 BCE at the Louvre, the fates of Achilles and Memnon are in the balance held by Hermes.
As a promoter of reflective consciousness, Saint Augustine, a theologian of the 5th century and Church Father, is the initiator of an introspective approach which consists in discerning the zones of unconscious from which consciousness itself is born.
Frankfort, Kingship and the Gods, University of Chicago Press 1978 László Török, The Kingdom of Kush: Handbook of the Napatan-Meroitic Civilization, Brill 1997 George Hart, The Routledge Dictionary Of Egyptian Gods And Goddesses, Routledge 2005 == Footnotes ==
The believers with four spirits are the second in position and disbelievers and animals are last in the chain with three spirits.
Martin Luther, like Augustine, was unwilling to make a dogmatic statement but at least later in his life moved away from the medieval consensus and favored the Traducian position.
In folklore and ethnography, a spirit is an "immaterial being", "supernatural agent", the "soul of a person", an "invisible entity", or the "soul of a seriously suffering person".
We see the world piece by piece, as the sun, the moon, the animal, the tree; but the whole, of which these are shining parts, is the soul.
Traducianism contradicts the concept of the indivisibility of the soul, but this is a merging and creation of two souls.
The text references Biblical passages and stories from Greek mythology to illustrate its points, such as the story of Odysseus and Helen, and the Psalms.
Many modern theologians reject the view that the Bible teaches the doctrine of the immortal soul, and Hebblethwaite claims the doctrine is "not popular amongst Christian theologians or among Christian philosophers today".
The Modern Age During the Renaissance, Europeans refocused their attention on the ideas and achievements of classical antiquity, which became particularly manifested in art, architecture, politics, science, and literature.
The allegorical plot was intended to depict a concept of the human soul based on the traditions of Christian mysticism, to criticize the political ideas of Thomas Hobbes and his followers, and to defend the Puritan political idea of theocracy.
having no mass, no wave-length, no energy, no measurable qualities and no time or location in space except by consideration or postulate.
This difference in philosophical discussions is of little concern because of its specific applications, but in Quranic culture the distinction is debatable.
A sin-eater is a person who consumes a ritual meal in order to spiritually take on the sins of a deceased person.
Man has several spirits The discussions on the epistemology of soul have given rise to many fields of study from ethics, psychology, education, and philosophy to commentary of Qur'anic verses and relevant hadiths among which philosophical speculations have a special place.
Neoplatonism For later interpreters of Plato, the concept of anamnesis became less epistemic and more ontological.
The 21 grams experiment refers to a study published in 1907 by Duncan MacDougall, a physician from Haverhill, Massachusetts.
The intellect from outside, which became the "acquired intellect" in Islamic philosophy, describes the incorporeal active intellect which comes from outside man, and becomes an object of thought, making the material intellect actual and active.
Some thetans are said to have (mis)used this ability to "implant" others with hypnotic suggestions, forcing other thetans to "cluster" around bodies (hence body thetans).
"De la migrance ä l'errance ou les Italiens entre «La Mort du Grand Pan» et «La Procession des Morts»".
Charles Taylor dubbed this transition "the Great Disembedding": the world as a continuous cosmos, in a mythological sense, was broadly replaced by a different worldview on understanding the relationship between the self and the world.
One critical question or a common subject raised by most philosophers is whether the soul is united or divided.
Cornford quotes Pindar by saying that the soul sleeps while the limbs are active, but when one is sleeping, the soul is active and reveals "an award of joy or sorrow drawing near" in dreams.
Court cases involving ghosts Near-death experiences and out-of-body experiences References External links Mary Roach's website Roach talks about Spook with Stephen Colbert on the Colbert Report
(2012), Acharya Kundkund's Samayasara, Vikalp Printers, ISBN 978-81-903639-3-8, Non-Copyright Jaini, Padmanabh S.
Hun is connected with the idea of weeding ([yun] 芸), for with the instincts the evil weeds (in man's nature) are removed.
It is most commonly associated with Scotland, Ireland, Wales, English counties bordering Wales, and Welsh culture.
Human experience is whereby always between the body (jism) and spirit (rūḥ), and thus the individual experience is limited to imagination (nafsânî).
The term is derived from the Greek letter Θ, theta, which in Scientology represents "the source of life and life itself." Origins of the concept The concept for the thetan was first described in the early 1950s by L.
In the roleplay game Household by Two Little Mice, the Slaughs are little peoples that lives in the Basement.
All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes; We cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter." This spirit matter always existed and is co-eternal with God.
Munslow may have revived the custom after the deaths of three of his children in a week 1870 due to scarlet fever.
The kꜣ was often represented in Egyptian iconography as a second image of the king, leading earlier works to attempt to translate kꜣ as double.
That Unconscious (Unbewusste in German) appears as a combination of the "Idea" of Hegel with the "Will to live" of Schopenhauer.
While the body's perceptual faculties are deceptive, Plato also argues that the falsehoods that they communicate to the soul can be used to trigger or prompt recollection.
Place in Jain Metaphysics Everything in existence is divided into two independent, everlasting, co-existing and uncreated categories called the jiva (soul) and the ajiva (Sanskrit: अजीव non-soul).
Philosopher Henry More introduced the term into the medical setting and considered the astral spirit to be a part of the body that was separate from the "rational soul" and viewed it as the "seat of impulses".
The tripartite soul The Platonic soul consists of three parts, which are located in different regions of the body: The logos (λογιστικόν), or logistikon, located in the head, is related to reason and regulates the other parts.
MacDougall said he wished to use dogs that were sick or dying for his experiment, though was unable to find any.
As in Xenophon, Plato's Socrates frequently describes the soul in a political way, with ruling parts, and parts that are by nature meant to be ruled.
Spirit (θυμοειδές) According to Plato, the spirited or thymoeides (from thymos) is part of the soul by which we are angry or get into a temper.
As it occurs in the Faerie Queene of Spenser, "heavenly light" is associated with knights in full armour, and with the purity of the human soul, picking up on Christian mysticism's view of the soul illuminating the body.
The spirit depends for its existence on the invisible life force called ch'i, which comes into the body from heaven.
the belief that the thetan would incarnate into any animal less than human." Scientology's first phase has to do with removing "encumbrances acquired in this life and in past existences," J.
When referring to the soul it is of three types: the commanding self (ammāra bi 'l sūʾ), remniscient of the Hebrew nefes̲h̲ (physical appetite) and the Pauline idea of "flesh" (φυχή) and is always evil, its greed must be feared, and it must be restraint.
Bhedhabheda (Dvaitadvait) Darshan The Bhedhabheda Darshan, founded by Nimbarka, maintains that jivas are at once distinct and part of Brahman, a middle ground of sorts between the extremes of Advaita, utter oneness, and Dvaita, utter distinctness.
Boring, in his influential historical accounts of experimental psychology, privileged Titchener's views while giving little credit to original sources.
Three "souls" comes from widespread beliefs that the soul of a dead person can exist in the multiple locations.
Only in the Timaeus and Laws does the reward-and-punishment phase disappear; in these two texts, the punishment is said to be the reincarnation itself.
Buddhists regard the identification of an independent soul with perception as mistaken, since our perception of the world depends on the sense organs.
He also states that the blessed are called in Greek εὐδαίμονες [eudaimones], because they are good souls, that is to say, good demons, confirming his opinion that the souls of men are demons." Latin spells of antiquity were often addressed to the Manes.
Explanations of bipartite anthropology Advocates of bipartite theology may quote the Reformation theologian John Calvin in support of a bipartite view.
Moreover, in contrast to Eckhart, he did not regard the ground as incorruptible; rather, he cautioned against the potential for harmful influences from created things to lead to the ground becoming entangled in evil.
Tauler's teaching posits that the requisite grace is not bestowed upon the individual who has sufficiently qualified for it by an arbitrary decision of God; rather, it must be granted to him as soon as he fulfils all the requirements.
(This shows to support the general belief of Christians that all humanity are all brothers and sisters.) See also Plan of salvation (Latter Day Saints) Spirit world (Latter Day Saints) == References ==
He relates Socrates' ideas about Thymos and desire to how people want to be recognized within their government.
Three strategies are accountable: identifying behaviors that establish credibility, finding common ground that enables mutual understanding, and developing a trust that allows one to know when to give the benefit of the doubt.
16 For "who has known the mind of the Lord, that he should instruct Him?" But we have the mind of Christ.
It is also a source of creativity and innovation, and it drives the evolution of consciousness and culture through whole history.
Hugh of Saint Victor and Alexander of Hales alone characterize Creationism as the more probable opinion; all the other Schoolmen hold it as certain.
First he presents the point that the kind of soul which bears the image of God must be rational and intellectual from its beginning.
To God, nothing is impossible, as it is possible to God to create a new one from nothing perhaps from himself.
In Plato's theory of epistemology, anamnesis (; Ancient Greek: ἀνάμνησις, meaning "memory") refers to the recollection of innate knowledge acquired before birth.
Historical overview The Stone Age Prior to the first agricultural revolution, when people still lived in hunter-gatherer societies, shamanism possibly emerged from a belief in the afterlife.
However, this fact usually remains hidden from human consciousness because it is so overwhelmed by sensory impressions that it is unable to grasp what the uppermost part of the soul perceives.
In many cases, one of the souls is associated with body functions ("body soul") and the other one can leave the body ("free soul" or "wandering soul").
For against your will were you formed, against your will you were born, against your will you live, against your will you die, and against your will shall you give judgement and accounting before the King Who Reigns Over Kings, the Holy One, Blessed is He.
History Funerary texts with wishes for the deceased in the afterlife are as old as writing itself – the first known phonetic inscriptions were funerary texts from Ur thought to be wishes for an eternal life.
The opposite direction is taken in the Apocalypse of Peter, which describes Christ's three days' descent into Hell.
This teaching remains valid and is further confirmed, if confirmation were needed, by recent findings of human biological science which recognize that in the zygote resulting from fertilization the biological identity of a new human individual is already constituted.
Greek mythology In Plato’s Symposium, the comic playwright Aristophanes presents a myth to explain the origin of love.
In a Raeto-Romance tale, a man sees a procession of the dead and the last person is the soul of someone about to die.
It fights against the nefesh ha'elokit by flooding blood to the brain, where the nefesh ha'elokit resides.
Plato Plato used the word nous in many ways that were not unusual in the everyday Greek of the time, and often simply meant "good sense" or "awareness".
Such views suggest that framing love as a matter of destiny may discourage individuals from developing practical skills in communication and conflict resolution, while increasing the likelihood of disappointment when partners fail to meet idealized standards.
Introspection has been critiqued by many other psychologists, including Wilhelm Wundt and Knight Dunlap, who presented a non-behaviorist argument against self-observation.
Platonic philosophy The weight and importance of metempsychosis in the Western tradition are from its adoption by Plato.
Its allegory in the style of Edmund Spenser was influenced by a work of Henry More, like Ingelo one of the Cambridge Platonists, the Psychodia Platonica from 1642.
Blackstone wrote that life became a legally protected right "as soon as an infant is able to stir in the mother's womb".
The other two families are made up of men who were also born without souls, but who, like us, breathe outside the Elements.
Souls in transmigration are in impure state and liberated ones are said to be in natural or pure state.
In 2009, Hollander Jr.'s experiment was subjected to critical review by Masayoshi Ishida in the same journal.
According to Irenaeus, this teaching was a foundational pillar of the doctrine of Simon Magus, which Simon viewed as so important that he actually married a prostitute and elevated her in society in order to demonstrate the point.
The right side of the body is also believed to be male, while the left side is believed to be female, creating an additional layer to the dual identity of Kongo people.
The four last things Death Martin of Cochem explains that "there are three principal reasons why all sensible people fear death so much: First, because the love of life, the dread of death is inherent in human nature.
Corruptionism is the view that following physical death, the human being ceases to exist (until resurrection) but their soul persists in the afterlife.
At this point, the fetus would have the ability to perceive and move, the result of being given a soul.
The creation of the soul by the First Cause, when second causes have posited the pertinent conditions, falls within the order of nature; it is a so-called "law of nature", not an interference therewith.
In other words, the pre-existent world of God remains separate from and does not descend into his creation.
Their authors and principal representatives were all German members of the Dominican Order (Order of Preachers) and disseminated their teachings on the ground of the soul in German.
In the Hebrew Bible, Eliezer prays for divine guidance in finding a wife for Isaac (Genesis 24), while later rabbinic tradition recounts that Leah prayed to alter her destined match after learning that her intended partner was Esau; she was instead joined with Jacob.
The number of levels in Diyu it is said to be three, four, ten or even Eighteen "courts", each of which is ruled by a judge, collectively known as the Yama Kings.
As Ancient Orient Curator Andrey Bolshakov explains: "The notion of the ka was a dominating concept of the next life in the Old Kingdom.
This view is generally held by the contemporary magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church, most notably in the instruction Dignitas Personae.
For the Stoics, pneuma is the active, generative principle that organizes both the individual and the cosmos.
The Phi Theta Kappa honor society took the letter theta for thumos, representing the "aspiration" that they seek in their potential members.
But in his Enneads he went further than those authors, often working from passages which had been presented more tentatively, possibly inspired partly by earlier authors such as the neopythagorean Numenius of Apamea.
In other uses within the English language, it can be used to describe finality, in circumstances unrelated to death.
'Happy/Lucky Spirit') - The happy and loving side of a whole, complete spirit (mitama); this is the spirit of blessing and prosperity.
See also Plant perception (physiology) Plant perception (paranormal) Plant rights Vegetative soul == References ==
Humans have, however, free will and thus control over their own existence, as much as they are responsible for the act of procreation.
Etymology and inscriptions Manes may be derived from "an archaic adjective manus—good—which was the opposite of immanis (monstrous)".
With satirical reference to Swedenborg's Heaven and Hell, he titled this book the Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
In Jain beliefs, souls begin their journey in a primordial state, and exist in a state of consciousness continuum that is constantly evolving through Saṃsāra.
According to Hubbard, an essential part of the thetans' game was the "conquest" of matter, energy, space, and time by the life force, theta.
In Ireland on 16 March 1831 Baron Pennefather in Limerick stated that pregnancy was not alone sufficient for a delay but there had to be quickening.
Pre-existence, premortal existence, beforelife, or life before birth, is the belief that each individual human soul existed before mortal conception, and at some point before birth enters or is placed into the body.
New Age In New Age thought, the concept of soulmates has been further developed by spiritual teachers such as Mark L.
and the rest of creation (experience) individually pleasure or displeasure, pain, great terror, and unhappiness" (1.1.6).
What our mind sees directly in order to really understand things must not be the constantly changing material things, but unchanging entities that exist in a different way, the so-called "forms" or "ideas".
The Romantic approach to the "Unconscious" found a posterity even beyond philosophy, in Romantic psychology.
Reincarnation Plato's theory of the reincarnation of the soul combined the ideas of Socrates and Pythagoras, mixing the divine privileges of men with the path of reincarnation between different animal species.
Plato makes the point that the logistikon would be the smallest part of the soul (as the rulers would be the smallest population within the Republic), but that, nevertheless, a soul can be declared just only if all three parts agree that the logistikon should rule.
In fact, this is considered the natural state of a person, since in a human the brain is physically positioned above the heart (in contrast to animals, where the brain and the heart are on the same level).
Philo, a 1st-century Hellenistic Jewish philosopher, commented on the use of Πνοή, rather than πνευμα, in the Septuagint translation of Genesis 2:7.
Such is being divided from something, even two rather than one, both parents souls being that powerful.
It is frequently used to suggest the closest relationship a person can have, and is sometimes understood as an exclusive or lifelong connection.
In the Phaedrus, Plato depicts logos as a charioteer driving the two horses eros and thumos (erotic love and spiritedness are to be guided by logos).
The duality is also seen in the healing traditions of Austronesian shamans, where illnesses are regarded as a "soul loss"—and thus to heal the sick, one must "return" the "free soul" (which may have been stolen by an evil spirit or got lost in the spirit world) into the body.
While the mezuzah primarily serves as a reminder of faith and adherence to God's commandments, it is also viewed as a protective amulet against harmful spirits, including dybbuks.
The novella To Clutch a Razor (2025) by Veronica Roth features a chapter in which a young woman found wandering in the woods is possessed by a dybbuk.
See also Ancient Egyptian beliefs about the soul, in which the soul has many parts Baci, a religious ceremony in Laos practiced to synchronize the effects of the 32 souls of an individual person, known as kwan.
Scientologists believe that thetans fell from grace when they began to identify with their creation, rather than their original state of spiritual purity.
Scientology also teaches that a thetan can temporarily separate from the body in a process known as "exteriorization".
Reason (λογιστικόν) The logical or logistikon (from logos) is the thinking part of the soul, which loves the truth and seeks to learn it.
During the Renaissance time period it was used in a Platonic format to designate the "aetheric vehicle or starlike garment surrounding the soul which descended from heaven and entered the individual body".
It can also be argued that, if there is an original sin, newly created souls are bound to something that was not caused by anyone that has given origin to them, thus contradicting the same doctrine.
In pre-Socratic philosophy, it became increasingly distinguished as a source of knowledge and reasoning opposed to mere sense perception or thinking influenced by the body such as emotion.
By the spirit Adam knows right from wrong and guidance from error and he camouflages and learns and manages all of his affairs.
Maximus argues for the position that the human soul cannot develop from a pre-existing kind of soul after ensoulment.
A jiva is differentiated from God or Ishvara due to the jiva’s dependence on Ishvara; this state is an indication of eternal, ontological distinction.
Some manuscripts Codex Vaticanus 253 Codex Vaticanus 253 is one of the most important manuscripts of the treatise.
The text explains that when the soul perceives her troubles and repents, the father will cleanse her and turn her womb inward.
That is, human propagation is of the whole being, both material and immaterial aspects: an individual's soul is derived from the soul of one or both parents.
In the practice of śamatha, its principal function is to note the occurrence of laxity and excitation." It is of central importance for meditative practice in all Buddhist traditions.
This connection is often associated with love, romance, intimacy, sexuality, spirituality, or compatibility, and may also involve trust and comfort.
The word indicates a physical association with breath or blood and is also used to express the human desire for recognition.
See also Atma Siddhi Atman (Buddhism) Atman (Hinduism) God in Jainism Ratnatraya - Three Jewels of Jainism References Citation Sources Doniger, Wendy, ed.
That is intended to show that since the boy was not told the answer, he reached the truth by only recollecting what he had once known but later forgotten.
However, the former belongs only to the prophets who used it to judge when they lacked information for normal judgement, while the latter was breathed into all human beings.
This discernment is achieved through a deepening of the immediate consciousness, in which the soul directly grasps its concrete reality.
See also Abortion in the United States § History Notes External links First Fetal Movement: Quickening, American Pregnancy Association.
In 2022, the TV series Evil featured a fictional recreation of the experiment in the episode "The Demon of Death".
The concept of a soul weighing 21 grams is mentioned in numerous media, including a 2013 issue of the manga Gantz, a 2013 podcast of Welcome to Night Vale, the 2015 film The Empire of Corpses, a 2021 episode of Ted Lasso, and a 2023 issue of the manga One Piece.
The thetans have by now become so enmeshed in the physical universe that many have identified themselves totally with it, forgetting "their quadrillions of years of existence and their original godly powers, barely capable of even leaving their bodies at will".
The concepts of souls in the Philippines is a notable traditional understanding that traces its origin from the sacred indigenous Philippine folk religions.
In the 1910 Shiraz blood libel, the Jews of Shiraz, Iran, were falsely accused of murdering a Muslim girl.
Because of its red pigmentation, caused by expression of the dye prodigiosin, and its ability to grow on bread, S.
'life' or 'earth') is the personification of the Earth or the physical realm and an oriṣa in Yoruba religion.
In this case, they must sacrifice their humanity, allowing themselves to be transformed into a boar for some time, or allowing themselves to be possessed by a boar demon.
The most prevalent West African religions, both in Africa and the Americas, are often those of the Yoruba people or those that were influenced by them.
The pericope that constitutes the second narrative is usually analysed as beginning with Genesis 2:4b ("In the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens").
The Ráni, in turn, invites Brinjal to her palace, but she asks for the Ráni to pave a road between their palaces and decorate it with curtains, so that no man can see her.
The sculpture clearly influenced Velázquez's painting of the Rokeby Venus, now at the National Gallery, London.
He is killed by a missile strike in the episode "Sacrifices", written by Stargate actor Christopher Judge .
It’s a little experimental, a little goofy, and a little science-fiction-y, while also hosting a bit of Greek myth and hard boiled detective novel-style narration." The novel has also garnered many reviews from niche bloggers and verified reviews on Amazon.
Snorri Sturluson also seems to have a preference towards the aristocratic-centred cosmology as opposed to the views more likely held by the wider population.
As neighbouring Lydia came to control Phrygia, the cult of Attis was given an additional Lydian context.
Na Arean called aloud, saying, "Lift, lift." But Riiki answered, " I can no more, for heaven clings to the underworld." .
In Greek mythology, Leos (; Ancient Greek: Λεώς) may refer to the following personages: Leos, one of the ten or twelve Eponyms of the Attic phylae whose statues were at the Athenian agora near the Tholos.
By July 2009, Scott was contracted to direct the film, and screenwriter Jon Spaihts was hired to write the script based on his pitched idea for a direct Alien prequel.
Te Ao Mārama in the District Court In November, 2020, the chief district court judge, Heemi Taumaunu, announced that Te Ao Mārama would be applied to every district court in New Zealand, with the goal of bringing about transformative justice.
This form of the astral spirit, while sometimes considered to be harmful, fell into the Platonic definition as it was considered to be a remnant of the deceased in some form.
Though they were conflated into one, gods in Mesopotamia were believed to be able to "abandon" their statues.
Nilsson, Professor of Classical Archaeology, worked on the structure, origins and relationships of the Indo-European languages, and concluded that all great classical Greek myths were tied to Mycenaen centres and were anchored in prehistoric times.
There are various versions of this myth among the cultures of Polynesia, but many agree that the first gods came from them.
Political satire The original Irish places are Druimenaig and Croimglenn, and have been identified as the modern-day Dublin suburbs of Drimnagh and Crumlin.
The sixteenth-century Dutch demonologist Johann Weyer described Demogorgon as the master of fate in Hell's hierarchy.
Medieval records do not record that Strata Florida ever held a cup or bowl as a relic or that it was previously connected with Glastonbury, but both these elements became part of the Nanteos Cup legend.
See the 5th verse in the 5th translation by Edward Fitzgerald:Iram indeed is gone with all its Rose, And Jamshyd's Sev'n-ring'd Cup where no one knows; But still the Vine her ancient Ruby yields, And still a Garden by the Water blows.
According to Jains, the universe has a firm and an unalterable shape, which is measured in the Jain texts by means of a unit called Rajlok, which is supposed to be very large.
John O'Donovan, in his notes to his edition and translation of the Annals of the Four Masters, places Mag Itha along the River Finn, near Lough Swilly in the barony of Raphoe, County Donegal, where the medieval tuath of Magh Itha was.
and Vanstiphout, Herman L.J., (eds.), Dispute Poems and Dialogues in the Ancient and Medieval Near East (Orientalia Lovaniensia Analecta, 42), Peeters: Leuven, 1991, 23–46: commentary Vanstiphout, Herman L.J., "Sumerian Canonical Compositions.
Pargiter estimated 26 generations by averaging 10 different dynastic lists and assuming 18 years for the average duration of a reign, arrived at an estimate of 850 BCE for Adhisimakrishna and approximately 950 BCE for the Bharata battle.
It was said to have turned into a small pyramid, located in Heliopolis (Egyptian: Annu or Iunu), within which Atum was said to dwell.
It discusses the inhabitants of local universes and how the work of different orders of beings, including humans and angels, is coordinated within a scheme of ascension and spiritual progress.
It can be found in ancient Mesopotamian, Egyptian and Greek mythology, in the Aramaic Uruk incantation, incorporated in Mandaean incantations, as well as in Jewish kabbalah.
History Stories derived from the Codex Telleriano-Remensis characterized Huehuecóyotl as a benign prankster, whose tricks were often played on other gods or even humans, but tended to backfire and cause more trouble for himself than for the intended victims.
The tablet is 3.2 inches (8.1 cm) by 2.6 inches (6.6 cm) by 0.85 inches (2.2 cm) at its thickest point.
The left half of a large fresco in the Apostolic Room of the Vatican Palace, titled The Mass at Bolsena, was painted by the Renaissance painter Raphael.
He had reached the lower Sanaga River when a fight with family members drove him yet farther north to Piti.
In other parts of the world where a vibrant Italian community exists, traditions involving Befana may be observed and shared or celebrated with the wider community.
In some accounts, when Zeus became secure in his power, he relented and gave the Titans their freedom.
Localization The Pé de garrafa was first described by Alfredo do Vale Cabral (1884), who characterized it as a local legend of the state of Piauí.
The hero, still anonymous, is described as a man of noble birth whom envious tongues had sought to defame before the prince.
Transformation Some myths tell of a man enveloped in black robes who miraculously transforms into a creature.
In the traditional Chilote mythology of Chiloé, Chile, the Trauco is a humanoid creature of small stature—similar to a dwarf or goblin—who lives deep in the forest.
The Aztec underworld, Mictlan was protected by python-trees, a gigantic alligator and a snake, all of which spirits had to evade by physical ducking and weaving or cunning, before they could start the journey towards immortality.
A similar close parallel is found in a little-known and deeply rooted in folklore legend about the iconoclast Eastern Roman emperor Constantine V (r.
Euhemerus asserted that the Greek gods originally had been kings, heroes, and conquerors, or benefactors to the people, who had thus earned a claim to the veneration of their subjects.
The realms of Nasut and Malakut are parts of the 'world of creation' and are ruled by the same spiritual laws.
The trunk of the tree could also be represented by an upright caiman, whose skin evokes the tree's spiny trunk.
In Aymara mythology, Anchanchu or Janchanchu (Hispanic spelling, Anchancho) is a terrible demon that haunts caves, rivers, and other isolated places.
The intersex rights includes rights of inheritance, rights to marriage, and rights to live like any other male or female.
The Hymn to Enlil, Enlil and the Ekur (Enlil A), Hymn to the Ekur, Hymn and incantation to Enlil, Hymn to Enlil the all beneficent or Excerpt from an exorcism is a Sumerian myth, written on clay tablets in the late third millennium BC.
She then prayed to the gods to be taken away from mankind, and the gods answered by transforming her into a chalkis bird (a type of owl).
Bachofen presents a model where matriarchal society and chthonic mystery cults are the second of four stages of the historical development of religion.
Number and names Jewish and Christian versions Early versions do not all agree on or even specify the number of sleepers.
Rachel Darmon : « Figuration, fable et théologie dans les traités de mythographie », in Fable/ Figure.
It is shown in this position on the Copperplate map of London, dating to the 1550s, and also appears on the derivative "Woodcut" map of the 1560s.
In his Atthis, Philochorus, too, states that she is the Moon and that men sacrifice to her in women's dress, women in men's, because she is held to be both male and female.
See also Rigans montes (Aquinas) Notes References Sources Nosson Scherman, The Complete Artscroll Siddur, Artscroll Mesorah Series (1985).
Once the sultan learnt of it, he promptly ordered the Grand Vizier to be impaled, although the Grand Vizier was the son of the sultan's favourite concubine.
However, there have been novels adapted from the first three episodes as well as "Minokichi," written by Dan Danko, Tom Mason, and John Whitman.
ghostvillage.com: Dictionary of Superstitions A-Z Witchcraft & second sight in the Highlands & islands of Scotland.
Verses 1–4: In Praise of God's Royal Splendor This echoes the first two days of creation in Genesis 1, and describes God as king moving through his royal dwelling.
Mastusius seized the girls when they arrived and killed them all, and then had their blood mixed with wine in a bowl.
Description The only publicly displayed Twardowski mirror, originating from Węgrów, is cracked into three pieces and tarnished.
Among the Yoruba, the Aje leaves her body and turns into an animal, but the Hag do not leave her body, she sheds her skin and turns into a ball of fire.
One of the lead characters pretends to be Demogorgon in Johann Karl August Musäus' literary fairy tale "Rolands Knappen" ('Roland's Squires') from Volksmärchen der Deutschen (volume 1, 1782).
It would roam at night and terrifies people while they sleep and the Alû may also torment their victims for fun.
Similar yōkai In Japanese folklore or popular imagination, there are also other similar yōkai that follow the pattern of predicting doom and instructing humans to copy or view its image, but lie outside the classification of amabie/amabiko according to a noted researcher.
Conflation with the god Atys Nineteenth century scholarship wrongly identified the god Attis with the similar-sounding name of the god Atys.
A major difference is that Cleostratus and Menestratus are an established couple before disaster strucks, whereas Alcyoneus and Eurybarus only meet when Alcyoneus is being led to Sybaris, and there is no confirmation of an eventual relationship between the two.
In the nineteenth century, the poem was widely considered to be of the fifth century BC or somewhat earlier, but linguistic studies starting in the late 19th century suggest that the poem was written in the late Hellenistic period, or even under the early Roman Empire.
But using the call as a guide will further confuse the pursuer, as the sound bounces off and amplifies and can cause delirium and madness.
An interpretation of the Odyssey, for example, would show how Odysseus’s life conforms to a heroic pattern.
Once Zeus reached adulthood, the Oceanid Metis gave Cronus an emetic, which caused him to vomit out his swallowed children, now fully grown.
They argued that if crocodiles and the environment were treated with respect, there would be no attacks.
Lycophron further makes reference to Corythus to informing them about the land, and him being a spy or traitor, alluding to a version in which the Greeks found Troy thanks to Corythus' information.
Depictions of world trees, both in their directional and central aspects, are found in the art and mythological traditions of cultures such as the Maya, Aztec, Izapan, Mixtec, Olmec, and others, dating to at least the Mid/Late Formative periods of Mesoamerican chronology.
In popular culture The tree of life is mentioned explicitly in the 2006 film The Fountain; it is discussed in connection with the Hebrew Genesis book.
Very significant thing about this method is that lietuvēns’ cross has to be drawn in one step, otherwise it won’t work and lietuvēns can come even in the house, where this cross is drawn.
In order for the religious authorities to combat whatever evil forces may be threatening, or for those who rely on the religious authorities for protection, it is necessary for some religious authorities to transform and cross over to the spirit realm.
It leaves it even more ambiguous when they say they doesn't use the locker rooms, saying "I don't need a locker room to change" and "this place smells like anus", when referring to the boy's locker room.
It is a compound formed with the Old Norse word for 'gold' (gull), yet the second element–found in other personal names like Rannveig, Sölveig, or Thórveig–remains obscure.
Caeneus and Mestra, each of whom was a mate of a god (Caeneus was a rape victim of Poseidon/Neptune and Mestra was a lover of the same god), were granted manhood by the said god.
Mesoamerican codices which have this association outlined include the Dresden, Borgia, and Fejérváry-Mayer codices.
Calvin denies (contra Aquinas and without mentioning his name) that the tree served as a biological defense against physical aging.
In more recent literature of myth, such as in Bulfinch's Mythology, euhemerism is called the "historical interpretation" of mythology.
See also Tilberi, another witch-created milk thief Tremella mesenterica, another mold believed to have spewed by witches' "carriers" References Notes Bibliography Alver, Bente G.
The remains of persons impaled have, occasionally, been thought imbued with certain magical properties.
The author of the Bibliotheca mentions four (Antheis, Aegleis, Orthaea, and Lytaea), while Hyginus only mentions Antheis.
Burmese mythology is largely associated with and influenced by Buddhist mythology, Hinduism, and several other ethnic traditions.
Status and conservation Following the Neolithic Subpluvial, around 7500 to 3500 BC, the "green Sahara" became dry and the scimitar oryx's population began to decline due to a loss of suitable habitat.
Christianity Augustine of Hippo criticized sun- and star-worship in De Vera Religione (37.68) and De civitate Dei (5.1–8).
Its healing virtues in certain cases of female disorder were in great repute, and when all hopes from doctors had been given up the sufferer had only to take all nourishment, wet and dry, out of it for a few days to ensure a complete cure.
He then lost the language upon his Fall from Paradise, and constructed a form of proto-Hebrew based upon his vague memory of Angelical.
His self-mutilation, death, and resurrection represents the fruits of the earth, which die in winter only to rise again in the spring.
Very rarely in the Eddic stories are the gods described as forming a large family, instead typically acting individually or in groups of three.
Mannhardt extensively studied mostly representations of spirits associated with the harvest and the broader category, spirits of vegetation, representing the annual cycle of dying and resurrecting vegetation.
In culture Jupiter's irregular moon Harpalyke (also known as Jupiter XXII) was named after this mythological figure.
Ethical dualism contrasts with monist theories that see the good as the singular foundational principle.
Dwyfan and Dwyfach, sometimes also called Dwyvan and Dwyvach, in Welsh mythology feature in a flood legend from the Welsh Triads.
The term was also used in relation to the concept of ghosts and vampirism in the nineteenth century.
To save cattle from the attack of wolves people also tried to propitiate Tutyr with the annual "Tutyrta" holiday during the first three days of Great Lent.
Like other Sumerian disputation poems, it features two typically inarticulate things (in this case, two metals) debating over which one is superior.
Although relevant Indian texts and icons of Vaikuntha-Kamalaja are found in Nepal, hardly any exist in India except Kashmir.
It is a belief found in many indigenous Mesoamerican cultures that a person upon being born acquires a close spiritual link to an animal, a link that lasts throughout the lives of both creatures.
His fortifications, however, were made fun of by the architect Polycritus, who leaped over the ditch in derision.
Witchcraft In the early modern world, there was not always a clear separation between the idea of the werewolf and the witch.
According to the ancient text Classic of Mountains and Seas, she came from Chi River (赤水, "Red River") and gave birth to Yanju (炎居), who was Zhurong's great-grandfather.
"The Battle of Magh Tuireadh") is the name of two saga texts of the Mythological Cycle of Irish mythology.
Suida, Suda Encyclopedia translated by Ross Scaife, David Whitehead, William Hutton, Catharine Roth, Jennifer Benedict, Gregory Hays, Malcolm Heath Sean M.
Llŷr appears as the father of Brân, Brânwen and Manawydan by Penarddun in the Branwen, Daughter of Llyr, the Second Branch of the Mabinogi.
Phelps wrote about a possible connection: "It [Book of Mormon] was translated by the gift and power of God, by an unlearned man, through the aid of a pair of Interpreters, or spectacles- (known, perhaps, in ancient days as Teraphim, or Urim and Thummim)".
Other sculptures and literature from ancient Mesopotamia show that wrestling was a popular activity.
The recognition of Philomela would have taken place on stage, followed by Procne's gruesome revenge and Tereus's realization of his own cannibalism.
These images tend to portray Moloch as a bull- or lion-headed humanoid idol, sometimes with wings, with arms outstretched over a fire, onto which the sacrificial child is placed.
With his horse's help and the aid of three magical objects he stole from three quarreling men, he gets the objects and presents them to the king.
(rev.ed.), Éditions Gallimard: 1989, reprinted 1993, 481–483: translation, commentary (partial translation) Civil, Miguel, The Farmer's Instructions.
Tawûsî Melek's name is seldom mentioned openly and he is instead called Pîr Melekê Elladî ('The Pîr Angel of the Best Religion'), Pîrê Batinî ('Concealed Pîr') and Pîrê Perdê (Pîr of the Veil) in religious texts.
Redmond, Nicholas Fincher, Patrick Rourke, Elizabeth Vandiver, Raphael Finkel, Frederick Williams, Carl Widstrand, Robert Dyer, Joseph L.
Darkness then rested upon the heaven and upon the earth, and they still both clave together, for they had not yet been rent apart..
The Inner Reaches of Outer Space is a 1986 book by mythologist Joseph Campbell, the last book completed before his death in 1987.
If someone recognizes her in the tiger form, she assumes her real form and pretends to be digging for roots in the jungle.
She is often described as waving a red handkerchief through victim's doors, either because it is dyed that way or because it is soaked with blood.
Archaeology A decorated stone known as the Killycluggin Stone (from Irish Coill an Chlogáin, meaning 'the Wood of the Bell-Shaped Stone') has been interpreted by some as the cult image of Crom Cruach.
The Athenians attacked from the Museum towards the Amazonian right wing, situated on the Pnyx, Plutarch states that the tombs of the fallen from this battle could be seen then along this area.
His icons include the eponymous bull as his emblem, the Nyagrodha tree, Gomukha (bull-faced) Yaksha, and Chakreshvari Yakshi.
For all joy wants—eternity." Interpretation Martin Heidegger points out that Nietzsche's first mention of eternal recurrence in The Gay Science presents this concept as a hypothetical question rather than postulating it as a fact.
When Patrick approaches it he raises his crozier, the central figure falls face-down, with the imprint of the crozier left in it, and the surrounding figures sink into the earth.
Other than the main stone kanrodai, multiple "model" (wooden) kanrodais can be placed in different locations, unlike in Tenrikyo where only one kanrodai can be placed only at the headquarter's jiba.
No trace of such an oral tradition, which Homer's listeners would have recognized in Nestor's allusion, survived in literary epic.
The three Dark Ultras are based around the story of Faustus; Dark Faust, who is defeated by Nexus early on in the show's run, Dark Mephisto, who survives his first encounter with Nexus and goes on to become his arch-rival, and a stronger version of Mephisto named Mephisto Zwei.
Vourukasha is, consequently, the source of all waters and the two mythical rivers, Arang and Wehrot, originate there and eventually flow back there.
Rachel Darmon : "Georgius Pictorius à la recherche d'un langage mythographique", in Acta Conventus Neo-latini Uppsaliensis.
In ancient times, Laz people would leave their villages if they felt that the Germakochi was in the village.
Rusty Bones (voiced by Greg Eagles) is the ghost of a depressed blues singer who sings about his life and curses anyone who mocks him.
In works of ancient art it is seen not only on maenads and male bacchantes, but also on figures of Pan and satyrs.
History In Indo-European religion, the behavior of birds has long been used for the purposes of divination by augurs.
He lends money to those foolish enough to spend their fortune but if they do it again, he punishes them by giving them a curse of eternal poverty.
The Hesiodic Catalogue also listed seven sons and five daughters, however only the names Cretheus, Athamas, Sisyphus, Salmoneus, Perieres, Pisidice, Alcyone, and Perimede are preserved.
1012, the reference to Diana (cum Diana paganorum dea) was augmented by "or with Herodias" (vel cum Herodiade).
The war lasted 4 months and concluded with a peace treaty in Horeomosium, near the temple of Theseus.
It arrived there at the beginning of the 18th century through the Krasiński family, who reportedly donated it as a votive gift for the furnishing of a new religious house for the Bartholomites.
Shortage of support services Chief judge, Heemi Taumaunu notes that there is a lack of supportive services in many communities such that currently they "have no presence in the courtroom".
There is also a large outdoor wooden kanrodai at the Honbushin International Center in Mililani, Hawaii, United States.
Humanity is to extend the Kingdom of God beyond Eden, and, imitating the Creator-God, is to labour to bring the earth into its service, to the end of the fulfilment of the mandate.
The third edition was published by New World Library in 2002, making The Flight of the Wild Gander the third title in the Joseph Campbell Foundation's Collected Works of Joseph Campbell series.
Rose (1928) The Complete World of Greek Mythology by Richard Buxton (2004) Metamorphoses by Ovid, published ca.
Ephialtes is an anxiety disorder identified as such by John Bond in 1753, along with other authors of those times, in his treatise "An Essay on the Incubus, or Nightmare".
Simargl is said to be chained to the star Polaris in the constellation Ursa Minor (the "Little Bear") and, according to legend, if the chain ever breaks the hound will devour the world.
They constructed an ark-like vessel named Nefyd Naf Neifion, which was to carry a pair of each species.
Criticism Geoffrey Hosking and George Schöpflin argue that the Piast Concept "rested on a simple and persuasive historical myth".
With the passage of time and gradual changes in the story, the soucouyant is no longer exclusively described as an elderly woman.
The story is remembered for the killing of the fugitive Ephraimites who were identified by their accent; they said the Hebrew word shibboleth as sibboleth.
Why commit you so dreadful a crime as to slay us, as to rend your parents apart?And in the creation story from the Gilbert Islands:in the beginning there was nothing in the Darkness and the Cleaving-together save one person.
And still today, it is said that the Cegua also appears in the trees of Guanacaste, where a womanizer or night owl awaits her, under a beautiful veil.
However, in the same period supernatural intervention was accepted in European Christian culture in the form of ordeals later used during witch trials.
It is said that the miraculous bleeding of the host occurred in the hands of an officiating priest who had doubts about transubstantiation, Peter of Prague.
Online Version Chiera, Edward and Kramer, Samuel Noah., Sumerian texts of varied contents, Number 116, University of Chicago Oriental Institute Publications Volume XVI, Cuneiform series - volume IV, 1934.
Bearded man – A character similar to Jesus speaks to Shadow in a dream sequence while he is hanging from the world tree.
They were usually represented in the form of statues holding the symbols associated with a specific deity.
Thucydides reconciled this by reporting that Daulis, despite being situated in southern Greece, was populated by Thracians.
Patrick, but investigation has revealed that these were sites devoted to the worship of various Celtic gods and spirits long before the Catholic Church co-opted the location." Witchcraft In witchcraft, the anima loci is often referred to a spirit of the place, sprite, fairy, guardian.
Another such folktale appears in Slovenia, with a so called plague woman who is an outsider to a small township and dares not enter the township without some help.
In 1639, Giovanni Francesco Susini made a reduced-scale bronze copy, one cast of which is on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
Sea monsters lived in every ocean from the seven-headed crocodile-serpent Leviathan of Hebrew myth to the sea-god Koloowisi of the Zuni people of North America and the Greek monster Scylla with six snake-necks.
The Kresy was part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and the Second Polish Republic but since the latter's fall is no longer Poland but instead present-day Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania.
The first group was released at the beginning of 2016 in an acclimation enclosure and then fully released in the wild in the rainy season.
Baron Samedi (as the head of the Guede family of loa) is mentioned in the second novel in Ian Fleming's James Bond series of stories Live and Let Die.
In a passage intended to infer a moral lesson about disloyalty from the Serbian defeat at Kosovo, Mihailović identifies Miloš Kobila as the knight who on the fateful last Friday of the battle slew Murad.
The Lord's necklace of pearls and the bangles and bracelets nicely situated on His body all shone with a transcendental beauty.
In response, Old Earth creationists cite verses in the Bible where the words "whole" and "all" clearly require a contextual interpretation.
Waihinano, the pert sorceress who defies her on Maui, has been brought up by Kapo and Pua, but Hiʻiaka catches and crushes to death the soul of the Maui chief for which they both contend.
In the Middle Persian version of the Book of Giants they are referred to as kʾw, while in the Coptic Kephalaia as gigas.
Manipuri Myths Retold The Tales of Kanglei Throne Norse Mythology Poetic Edda,"collection", 13th century Prose Edda, Snorri Sturluson, 13th century Norse Mythology by Neil Gaiman (2017) Derivative works: The Blackwell Pages Trilogy by K.L.
Holy figures in Yazidism are designated by various special terms including Babçak, Xudan (lord, master, owner, holder, proprietor, protector, deity), Xas (selected, notable, special, elite) and Mêr which translates to (holy) man.
In old Turkic culture, especially in rural areas, bathrooms were at a corner of the living room of the house.
He is not associated with volcanoes in Yorùbáland in West Africa, contrary to what is believed in Cuban-style practice of Oriṣa.
The Epic of Gilgamesh in Sumerian literature features its hero Gilgamesh establishing his credibility as a leader after wrestling Enkidu.
Like the amabie, the amabiko is a three-legged or multi-legged prophesizing creature which prescribes the display of its artistic likeness to defend against sickness or death.
A manuscript of the poem, dating to the eleventh or twelfth century, contains a note attributing the poem to a Tigres or Timarchus of Caria: this could refer to Timarchus the tyrant of Miletus or the Seleucid usurper.
Myths often have a protagonist/heroic figure that represents a particular community destined to create a morally coherent world which orients the community's activities towards this end.
She is then reminded that her brother is abroad and might pass the bridge himself, so she changes her curses so as to become actual blessings: "As the tall mountains tremble, so shall the bridge tremble, and as the birds of prey fall, so shall passers fall".
He is deposed as king, and Nuada, who has had his arm replaced with one of silver by the physician Dian Cecht (whose son Miach caused flesh to grow over it), is restored.
In another narrative, she is described as returning repeatedly before the victim can recover from the blood and energy loss, thus weakening him further.
87: commentary Vanstiphout, Herman L.J., "Lore, Learning and Levity in the Sumerian Disputations: A Matter of Form, or Substance?", in Reinink, G.
The name of Herodias is not present in the text as attributed to Regino, but in the version by Burchard of Worms, written c.
'smasher of earth') in Greek mythology was a king of Athens, the founder of the polis and, in his role as god, attached to Poseidon, as "Poseidon Erechtheus".
Chinese dragons are frequently depicted with a flaming pearl or gem under their chin or in their claws.
She helped Yukio and Joanna defend Tierce from a rival school and helped Aziza and Yukio fight off the friends of the evil demi-gods.
This is apparent in the building of massive pyramid sites, which represented the axis mundi in societies.
Plutarch also visited burial places of Amazons at Megara, where he mentions a lozenge-shaped Amazon crypt is located.
She derives her title from the faculty which, like Merlin, she possessed: that of changing her form and appearance at will.
The majority of pictorial represent the amabiko/amabie as 3-legged (or odd-number legged), with a couple cases rather like an ordinary quadruped.
She is mentioned along with Angerona in one inscription, and in another her name appears in the plural.
If this custom was ignored, it was believed that Tutyr would become angry and would certainly order the wolves to exterminate the cattle and even the man himself, who had forgotten to sacrifice to Tutyr.
Eventually, someone tries to unmask the heroine's gender, until the heroine is sent on a mission where she transforms into a man by the curse of a magical being.
They murdered her and Polytechnus' son Itys, cooked him, and served him up as a meal to his father and a neighbour.
He proposed that the tigi was probably a hymn accompanied by lyre, that irshemma was perhaps one accompanied by a type of drum and that adab possibly a hymn accompanied by another form of string instrument.
The depiction of the sacrifices to Moloch are based on Flaubert's descriptions, while the entrance of Moloch's temple is modeled on a hellmouth.
In the alternate London, called Gogonooza, the London Stone is present, standing in front of a Temple of Isis.
The divine couple is wounded by the spear guided by Athena; this is the first theomachy to occur chronologically in the Iliad.
Agamemnon's father, Atreus, murdered the sons of his twin brother Thyestes and fed them to Thyestes after discovering Thyestes' adultery with his wife Aerope.
Tolkien created Sindarin names for the other planets in the solar system, as recorded in Morgoth's Ring, but did not use these elsewhere.
Each addresses specific theological objections to icons and offers defenses quoted from Scripture, the teachings of the Church Fathers, and the Incarnation of Christ.
Commentaries Due to its conciseness, many scholars have written commentaries (shuruh) on the poem: Sharh al-Kharida al-Bahiyya: The author's own commentary, providing detailed rational explanations.
Buddhists accept the existence of beings known as devas in higher realms, but they, like humans, are said to be suffering in samsara, and not necessarily wiser than us.
According to Sarah Lane Ritchie of the University of Edinburgh, the term "theistic naturalism" was first used by Dutch philosopher Willem Drees.
San Baraquiel is the last of the Seven Archangels, who are known as the seven warriors of God the Father.
- Hegel writes: ¤ 377 The knowledge of Mind is the highest and hardest, just because it is the most 'concrete' of sciences.
The traditions within Hinduism state that there are multiple paths (Sanskrit: marga) to moksha: jnana-marga, the path of knowledge; bhakti-marga, the path of devotion; and karma-marga, the path of action.
(Bible, book of James, chapter 1 verse 17: "Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning." (King James Version).
She was the youngest of three daughters born to her parents, Rebecca Cresap Radford (née Ord) and Robert Radford.
In Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism and the Abrahamic religions, it is often attributed to a divine being or an all-knowing spirit, entity or person.
After the French Revolutionary Wars, by the Treaty of Campo Formio, signed on 17 October 1797, the Austrian Netherlands was ceded in perpetuity to the French Republic by the Holy Roman Empereur Francis II in exchange for the Republic of Venice.
The Baháʼí conception of God rejects all pantheistic, anthropomorphic, and incarnationist beliefs about God.
Description The term dema comes from the Marind people of southwest Papua and has been used to refer to similar concepts in Melanesian religion and elsewhere.
He obtained an open classical scholarship at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, and then became lecturer in divinity, fellow and dean of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
This connects to the Arabic for knowledge, ilm, the last word of this term: "al-rasikhuna fi 'l-'ilm" Shi'a view Shi'a view those firmly rooted in knowledge to be Muhammad's household and (Arabic: Ahl al-Bayt) himself.
Overview The poem consists of 71 verses written in the rajaz meter, designed to facilitate the memorization of complex theological concepts.
Webb, they have described said oneness of the Godhead as social trinitarianism; Mormon critic Robert M.
Although He is not the literal creator of the earthly world, He, nevertheless, is directly involved in the process of its salvation.
Mythical theology is practiced by story-tellers, especially poets, based on narratives (mythoi) pertaining to divine matters.
Missiologist David Bosch described a transition toward understanding mission as historically and culturally embedded rather than culturally neutral, a development often associated with later intercultural approaches.
They have done greater harm to the community of Muhammad than have the warring infidels such as the Franks, the Turks, and others.
In general, the process of initiation into an intellectual tradition and the chain of disciplinary succession established thereby has traditionally been seen as essential for becoming educated in Hindu theology.
It is not the ordinary form of madness, but a behavior that is consistent with the premises of a spiritual path or a form of complete absorption in God.
Torrance, whose work in this area has influenced many theologians calling themselves critical realists.
Larson claimed in 2007 that "in less detailed forms the basics of 'Open Theism' have been taught at Loma Linda University for about fifty years, beginning at least as early as long-time professor Jack W.
However, it would also be possible to argue that human beings are partly sinful and partly righteous (partim/partim).
Tzimtzum is not only seen as being a natural process but is also seen as a doctrine that every person is able, and indeed required, to understand and meditate upon.
In fact the number of articles written regarding environmental theology increased substantially in the years after its publication.
The YouTube video created by Sam and Colby called The NEW Conjuring House: A Night Turned Demonic, attempts to debunk the situation the Smurl family lived in, allegedly proving that half of what they claimed were lies using a "spiritboard", the YouTubers were able to contact an entity named Patrick.
The Hornman performs numerous human sacrifices while wearing a hood with stag's horns attached to it.
P&F creates non-technical educational resources for clergy and laypersons of all faiths, including short-term courses and an online quarterly magazine Creative Transformation.
It was also regarded as "the guardian of both the moral laws of mankind and the physical laws of nature...
These involved medieval Zoharic notions of divine personas and male-female powers, recast in the 16th century Lurianic Kabbalah as cosmic withdrawal, exile–redemption and Divine personas.
The Catholic ideal, then, is by no means confined to the negative element of asceticism, but is of a positive nature.
Blaise Pascal and Antoine Arnauld were the best known of the defenders of Jansenius' work, who also brought moral questions into the debate.
Also, though the Angel of the Lord spoke to the Patriarchs, revealing God to them, some believe it has always been only through the Spirit of God granting them understanding, that men have been able to perceive later that God himself had visited them.
Manichaeism's legacy is the word Manichaean—relating to a dualistic view of the world, dividing things into either good or evil, light or dark, black or white.
The problem of evil suggests that an "all good" and "all powerful" God could not possibly endorse or allow evil actions to occur, for example, the Holocaust.
Exegesis The perspectives offered by the root texts of Hindu scripture on the nature of the divine, particularly in cases where the divine is conceptualised as incarnate in a human form such as Krishna, may be easily misunderstood or subject to conflicting interpretations.
The skeptical theist's response Skeptical theism provides a defense against the evidential argument from evil, but does not take a position on God's actual reason for allowing a particular instance of evil.
This what is meant when we speak of the eating of body and the drinking of the blood of Christ (John 6).
Some of the thinkers in the Muslim world came out from this movement, either inspired by or opposed to it.
But from such an order of things I will surely not attempt to prove God's existence; and even if I began I would never finish, and would in addition have to live constantly in suspense, lest something so terrible should suddenly happen that my bit of proof would be demolished.
Therefore, there is overlap in the meaning of the terms, although maghazi suggests military aspects rather than general biographical ones.
We must all learn from one another, and pull back from making any absolute claims about spiritual matters.
Amelia Rutledge writes that "theodicy, the study of justice and of the nature of evil" is the "central concern" of Morgoth's Ring.
Etymology "Divine" evolved in the late 14th century to mean "pertaining to, in the nature of or proceeding from God or a god".
Book organization The book is organized by an Introduction to the text, followed by seven chapters, then Notes for the chapters and a subject index.
Within two years, one of his uncles, Philip II of Burgundy, described by historian Robert Knecht as "one of the most powerful princes in Europe", became sole regent to the young king after Louis I of Anjou pillaged the royal treasury and departed to campaign in Italy.
"In the Bible, the earth is the feminine complement of God: the two combined to form man, who articulates their relationship, for example, in sacrifice." Rabbinical views Kabbalistic Judaism often relates to various "aspects" of God (cf.
Fukaya Tadamasa Fukaya Tadamasa (深谷忠政, 1912–2007) studied the history of Christian theology at Kyoto Imperial University.
As these religions have given precedence to orthopraxy, theological views often vary among adherents.
Emanationism is a theory in the cosmology or cosmogony of certain religious and philosophical systems, that posits the concept of emanation.
Kabbalah emerged in the 12th-14th centuries parallel to, and soon after, the rationalist tradition in medieval Jewish philosophy.
The Shvetashvatara Upanishad, for example, includes closing credits to sage Shvetashvatara, and he is considered the author of the Upanishad.
They see in the creation of Adam and Eve a literal image and likeness of the invisible Godhead, male and female, who is "clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made".
18th-century views Moses Mendelssohn, the 18th century Jewish Enlightenment thinker, used the concept of shituf as cited in Tosafot to justify any form of association of God with another entity.
Instead of the classic literal vision of God as depicted by Jewish Religious text, Spinoza envisioned God as a presence that encompassed the entire universe and beyond, a view commonly known as panentheism.
There be three principal [comparisons] that illustrate the state of monarchy: one taken out of the word of God, and the two other out of the grounds of policy and philosophy.
The term connotes a theology that is not outright polytheistic, but also should not be seen as purely monotheistic.
The concept of the monad as a universal substance is also used by Theosophists as a synonym for the Sanskrit term "svabhavat"; the Mahatma Letters make frequent use of the term.
Usul al-din can also designate a theological discipline ("principles of religion") that is studied at the Islamic universities.
Prevalent themes during this period included "the vision of God or of God's glory, the image of God in Christ and in us, and the concern with idol worship".
However, Eric Voegelin used theophilos to mean "lover of God": "In the Phaedrus, Plato has Socrates describe the characteristics of the true thinker.
Sittler Archives Recordings of Sittler at a conference at Holden Village, September 1977 Peter Bakken's quite thorough bibliography of Sittler's work
See also List of theological demons List of demons in the Ars Goetia List of occult symbols References External links Media related to Sigils of demons at Wikimedia Commons
Related problems include the problem of the existence of God, the nature of laws of nature, the problem of evil and the question of why God allows (or causes) natural disasters and tragedies to happen, and questions surrounding the notion of fate or destiny.
Hindu theology In Hindu cosmology, Navdhānya are considered to represent the Navagraha (nine planets).
See also Ahuric triad Chinese folk religion Jade Emperor Quanzhen Taoism Trimurti Trinity Taoism Taoist Canon Zhengyi Taoism References Citations Sources External links Media related to Three Pure Ones at Wikimedia Commons
In Sikhism, Sarav viāpak (literally "all-prevading god") is the omnipresence of God; since Sikhs hold God to be without form, shape, colour, gender, etc., they see God as present in every living being in the Universe.
Therefore, it is understandable that a person's first reaction to the image of a cyborg would be apprehension.
His argument culminates in the Allegory of the Cave, in which he argues that humans are like prisoners in a cave, who can only see shadows of the Real, the Form of the Good.
Theologians of civil or political theology are administrators, defining how the gods relate to daily life and the state (see imperial cult).
Due to their mortality and dependence on fate (ḳadar), they would also be subjected to the final judgment by Allāh.
Nirvana, in the Indian religions (Jainism, Hinduism, Buddhism, and Sikhism), is the concept of an individual's passions being extinguished as the ultimate state of salvation, release, or liberation from suffering (duḥkha) and from the cycle of birth and rebirth (saṃsāra).
She is an honorary fellow of Sarum College, Salisbury, and was president of the European Society of Women in Theological Research from 1989 to 1991.
Since God's simplicity does not allow for any structure – even conceptually – divine simplicity appears to entail the following dichotomy: God is absolutely simple, containing no element of form or structure.
24The God who made the world and all things in it, he, being Lord of heaven and earth, doesn't dwell in temples made with hands, 25neither is he served by men's hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he himself gives to all life and breath, and all things.
Directly quoting from Ibn Taymiyya's extracts, Islamic State (IS) would launch large-scale inghimasi operations as a novel terror tactic of suicide bombings during its 2014 insurgency across Iraq and Syria.
According to Henry Clarence Thiessen, the concept of theistic rationalism first developed during the eighteenth century as a form of English and German Deism.
The SS personnel records show that most of its members who left the churches of their upbringing, did so just before or shortly after joining the SS.
This concept has applications to the performance of Torah commandments in a public setting, as well as the gathering of Jews to protest Sabbath desecration or other willful violations of Torah law by, for example, the government.
Nous (Mind of Reason) as related the Logos (Word of God) is often also spoken of in terms conveying a sense of brightness and radiance.
Accounts of divine intervention Stories of divine intervention typically include a background story that lays out what "the situation" is and why the god in the story chooses to intervene.
The total number of verses in the most popular Hafs Quran is 6,236; however, the number varies if the bismillahs are counted separately.
In these passages, khvarenah has a seminal and germinal implication, being both fiery fluid and living seed.
Some Millennialist groups foresee an earthly collective salvation, while others believe that salvation will only be granted in Heaven.
Foreigners are allotted different inheritances and powers outside of the Israelite people according to the book of Deuteronomy and the commentary of Memar Marqah.
The concept of "gospel" is also significant in Islam, where it is referred to as the Injīl (Arabic: الإنجيل‎, romanized: Injīl, lit.
After months of investigation, Warren alleged that he had a number of audiotapes containing knocking and rapping caused by the demon.
It includes the being and becoming that occurred in the universe prior to the emergence of the concept of mind, or "persona" according to Carl Jung.
The jñānasattva (Sanskrit: ज्ञानसत्त्व), or "wisdom being", refers to the actual enlightened presence of the deity, which is ritually invited to merge with the visualized form.
Catholic doctrine teaches that God has imparted Divine Grace upon humanity and uses the vehicle of sacraments, which are carried out in faith, as a primary and effective means to facilitate the reception of his grace.
Linda Zagzebski argued against this by introducing the notion of perfect empathy, a proposed relation that God can have to subjects that would allow God to have perfect knowledge of their conscious experience.
The conception of ordination brought with it largely unspoken parallels with the Anglican and Catholic priesthood, but the overriding metaphor in James VI's 'Basilikon Doron' was that of a father's relation to his children.
In Shippey's view, the Silmarillion resolves the puzzle, letting Elves go not to Heaven but to the halfway house of the Halls of Mandos on Valinor.
Philo's largest philosophical influence was Plato, drawing heavily from the Timaeus and the Phaedrus, and also from the Phaedo, Theaetetus, Symposium, Republic, and Laws.
Incarnation of God There are many figures in Hinduism that are generally believed to be avatars; incarnations of a god in the mortal world.
In the present life this contemplation is possible only to a few privileged souls, through a very special grace of God: it is the θέωσις (theosis), μυστικὴ ἕνωσις (mystical union).
According to the Jain text, Puruşārthasiddhyupāya: Having achieved the ultimate goal, knowing everything that needs to be known, and enjoying eternal and supreme bliss, the Omniscient, Effulgent Soul rests permanently in the Highest State (of liberation).
The Burali-Forti paradox The idea that the collection of all ordinal numbers cannot logically exist seems paradoxical to many.
Hurrian One of the myths belonging to the so-called "Kumarbi Cycle" features Anu among the deities involved.
The philosophical work Narada Bhakti Sutras, written by an unknown author (presumed to be Narada), distinguishes eleven forms of love.
there is no one that knows me." Zi Gong said, "What do you mean by thus saying—that no one knows you?" The Master replied, "I do not murmur against Heaven.
The Tzimtzum formed a "space" (in Lurianic terminology, the Halal, "Vacuum") in which to allow creation to take place.
In 1977, Ruether was installed as the Georgia Harkness Professor of Applied Theology at Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary.
And Philo would have been the last to interpret the Platonic Eros in the vulgar way in which it is explained in the "De Vita Contemplativa", 7 (ii.
All divine emanations are only from the spiritual perception of creation, nullifying from the Divine view into the Ohr Ein Sof (Infinite light).
The most important deities in the Greek pantheon were the Twelve Olympians: Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Athena, Apollo, Artemis, Aphrodite, Hermes, Demeter, Dionysus, Hephaestus, and Ares.
In conclusion, Gregory condemns the practice and calls upon the religious and secular authorities in the diocese to take action against the cult's participants.
In the ceremonial magic of the Middle Ages, sigils were used in the summoning of these beings and were the pictorial equivalent to their true name.
The Orthodox Christian term theosis is roughly equivalent to the Protestant concept of glorification.
Ruether held a BA in philosophy and religion from Scripps College (1958), as well as an MA in ancient history (1960) and a PhD in classics and patristics (1965) from Claremont Graduate School in Claremont, California.
He has written over thirty books, most of them originally in English and most translated into several languages, as well as several hundred articles in journals, magazines, encyclopedias, and dictionaries of theology and of spirituality.
The Nazi Party did not wish to tie itself to a particular Christian denomination but with Christianity in general, and sought freedom of religion for all denominations "so long as they do not endanger its existence or oppose the moral senses of the Germanic race." (point 24).
However, they also presented some aggadot sequentially, giving the early form from the Jerusalem Talmud, and later versions from the Babylonian Talmud, and from a classic midrash compilation.
In the final phase of Creation, Daode Tianzun is manifested from Língbăo Tiānzūn to bring civilization and preach the Law to all living beings.
Jansenius' work was attacked by the Societas Jesu in particular, but it had other opponents as well, such as the Protestant theologian Gisbertus Voetius.
Das angebliche Epikurfragment bei Laktanz, De ira dei 13,20–21, in: Vigiliae Christianae 42 (1988), pp.
Godhead (or godhood) refers to the essence or substance (ousia) of God in Christianity — God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
This was particularly poignant through debates that arose from the World Council of Churches meeting in New Delhi in 1961, when the Indian Paul D.
Henry VIII of England declared himself the Supreme Head of the Church of England and exerted the power of the throne more than any of his predecessors.
Another translation was published in 1987 with a preface by Archimandrite (now Archbishop) Chrysostomos of Etna.
So Faustus' claims concern faith versus the necessity of penitence, not the priority of grace before human will.
Further, at least to the participants, the Shaman's actions and trance has meaning and power, either as a healer or in another spiritual sense.
First of all, the merciful, and gentle, and compassionate nature of him who is invoked, who would always rather have mercy than punishment.
The idea of the monad is also reflected in the demiurge, or the belief of one supreme being that brought about the creation of the universe.
There is also no documentary or archaeological evidence to support the Church's condemnation of cats or widespread cat-killing in the time and manner that Engels describes.
If the seeds sprout healthily, it is considered as a good sign and an indication of an upcoming good harvest.
Christian eschatology is a branch of study within Christian theology which deals with the doctrine of the "last things", especially the Second Coming of Christ, or Parousia.
This myth symbolises the equipoise of yin and yang, here the fire of knowledge (reason and craft) and earthly stability.
Their belief that God intervenes in human affairs and their approving attitude toward parts of the Bible distinguish theistic rationalists from Deists.
Such a generalizing figure, overlapping almost the entire variety of male demonic images, is the cohort in Polesia, as the main embodiment of all unclean forces.
The biblical bases for a cosmic Christology is often found in Colossians, Ephesians, and the prologue to the gospel of John.
In Wicca In traditional and mainstream Wicca, the Horned God is viewed as the divine male principality, being both equal and opposite to the Goddess.
Bahá'í: Bahá'í apologetics Muslim: Muslim apologists Conceptions of God Divine presence Divine presence God Names of God Singular God Absolute (philosophy) Brahman Emanationism God Logos More...
His conception of an ineffable God is a synthesis of Plato and Philo, as seen from a Biblical perspective.
For Jews the metal hands patterned after the 'alam (sometimes called degel) is not a relic and not associated with war.
There are many examples of tzedakah funds that operate according to Maimonides' principles above (particularly #2), including Hands on Tzedakah (working with nonprofits in the U.S.
He points out that the book almost exclusively concentrates on the Procession without reference to the work of the Holy Spirit, which he asserts is typical of Greek theology.
His "El memorial de la vida cristiana" contains instructions which take the soul from the very beginning and lead her to the highest perfection.
This is partly because the Tetragrammaton frequently appears with varying vowel points beneath the letters (unpronounced, but to be meditated upon) and different Names of God appear in small print within the final hei (ה) of the Tetragrammaton.
Marcus Terentius Varro (116–27 BCE) established a distinction between political theology (the social functions of religion), natural theology and mythical theology.
Instead, members seeking to court each other are expected to inform the captain of their local Fruit of Islam or Muslim Girls Training branch about their intentions.
The Quran is believed by Muslims to be God's own divine speech providing a complete code of conduct across all facets of life.
He alleges that a "crusade of extermination against the hapless cat" was waged throughout the 13th and 14th centuries, where all the cats in towns and cities were rounded up and burnt alive.
Later in life, she also attended San Francisco State University and earned two master's degrees: one in biology, from Southern Oregon State University, and one in Jewish education, from Hebrew College.
Rejecting the existence of original sin, it teaches that man is in himself and by nature capable of choosing good.
First, that their natural condition deemed them unable to rule themselves, and it was the responsibility of the Spaniards to act as masters.
Without doubt." Judaism Rabbi Aryeh Kaplan, who was also a physicist, was inclined toward the belief in extraterrestrial life, citing Jewish authorities including medieval philosopher Rabbi Chasdai Crescas (Ohr Hashem 4:2) and 18th century kabbalist Rabbi Pinchas Eliyahu Horowitz (Sefer HaBris).
Alternatively, some scholars argue that YHWH worship was rooted in the indigenous culture of the Kingdom of Israel and was promoted in the Kingdom of Judah by the Omrides.
Irenaeus used the phrase "knowledge falsely so-called" (pseudonymos gnosis, from 1 Timothy 6:20) for the title of his book On the Detection and Overthrow of False Knowledge, that contains the adjective gnostikos, which is the source for the 17th-century English term "Gnosticism".
During the First World War he served as a chaplain to the forces and what he witnessed led him to take a pacifist position, a subject on which he wrote extensively for the rest of his life.
This critique is analogous to the critique of Anselm's ontological argument by Gaunilo: "Just because I can imagine a perfect island does not mean that it actually exists.
(Torah Or Mi-Ketz p.64) Here, the Lower Unity perspective is ultimately false, arising out of illusionary concealment of Divinity.
Leaders have taught that God is infinitely loving, though his love "cannot correctly be characterized as unconditional." Though humanity has the ability to become gods through the atonement of Jesus, these exalted beings will remain eternally subject to God the Father and "will always worship" him.
Criticism Pre-20th century Whether or not reasoned discussion about the divine is possible has long been a point of contention.
Sacred mysteries are the areas of supernatural phenomena associated with a divinity or a religious belief and praxis.
The new method of derush (Biblical interpretation) introduced by Abtalion and Shemaiah seems to have evoked opposition among the Pharisees.
After Dharmakirti's excursions into the subject of what constitutes a valid cognition, Śāntarakṣita and his student Kamalaśīla thoroughly investigated the subject in the Tattvasamgraha and its commentary the Panjika.
Schopenhauer attributes Aseity (self-dependent) to will, as the only being by and of itself, apart from causal relationships.
It probably reached Tagalog through Malay or Maranao, where the Arabic expression is read "Alataala".
These continued to be revered through the early centuries of the common era, and many of the Greek deities inspired and were adopted as part of much larger pantheon of Roman deities.
On 7 February 1862 he issued the papal constitution Ad universalis Ecclesiae dealing with the conditions for admission to religious orders in which solemn vows are prescribed.
Greek polytheism In polytheism, that which is loved by the gods (τὸ θεοφιλές) was identified as the virtuous or pious.
Therefore: The system Ω of all [ordinal] numbers is an inconsistent, absolutely infinite multiplicity.
Photius argues against the idea that the Holy Spirit proceeds from both the Father and the Son (as proclaimed in the Western Creed under the Filioque clause) but rather, like the Son, proceeds only from the Father.
According to a well-known legend from the Talmud, the rabbis at the beginning of the Second Temple period recognized the destructive power of the yetzer hara for idolatry and decided to eliminate it.
Navdhānya means "nine grains" in several Indian languages and form an essential part of Indian cuisine.
They contend that there is a specific kind of Reformed Protestantism that is simultaneously committed to the Reformed hermeneutics originally formulated by Luther, and to "classical apologetics".
Overview For instance, here are some characteristics commonly associated with God: One — Many Transcendent — Immanent Eternal — Temporal Mutable — Immutable Merciful — Just Simple — Complex Dipolar theism holds that in each pair, both of the characteristics contain some element of good.
The Triglav may also represents the interweaving of the three dimensions of time, metaphorically represented as a three-threaded rope.
Extent and nature in the Shia tradition Shi'a Muslims seldom if ever use the six major hadith collections followed by the Sunnis because they do not trust many of the Sunni narrators and transmitters.
According to Ed Warren, the demon that inhabited the Smurls home was "very powerful" and it shook mirrors and furniture after they tried to persuade it to leave by playing religious music and praying.
Wheathampstead, Hertfordshire & Redondo Beach, California: Anthony Clarke Publishers & Oakwood Publications, 1990, ISBN 0-9618545-4-5.
"Myths Transformed" – several fragments on Morgoth, Sauron, and the problem of the origin of the Orcs.
David Melech Yisrael (Hebrew: דוד מלך ישראל; literally, "David is the King of Israel") is a Jewish song referring to King David.
He was president of the Field Studies Council from 1953 to 1957 and of the Botanical Society of the British Isles from 1951 to 1955.
Animal sacrifice and other means of atonement A number of animal sacrifices were prescribed in the Torah (five books of Moses) as part of the atonement process.
Eschatology Eschatology, literally the "study of the last", is the part of theology and philosophy concerned with the end of the world.
At the same time, writers on mystical theology have often entered into the domain of pastoral theology.
See also Tanzih Biblical literalism Bibliolatry Superstitions in Muslim societies Quranic inerrancy References External links Literalism and the Attributes of Allah by Sheikh Nuh Keller Imam Ahmad ibn Hanbal by Sheikh Nuh Keller Muslimphilosophy.com Sacred Texts.com
Access Mannix Library in East Melbourne has digitised all issues of the title and made it available via the University of Divinity's Digital Collections website and on JSTOR Open Community Collections.
Beliefs Orí Practitioners traditionally believe that daily life depends on proper alignment and knowledge of one's Orí.
"Convergent practical theology" has emerged from the combined studies and practice of missiology with organizational development since the publication of Missional Church: A Vision for the Sending of the Church in North America.
During the Russian Revolution, Shakir escaped to Kabul, where he met his future wife, Bibireyhana Veliulla.
However, "It is not the essence of the Divine to create Worlds and sustain them", as this ability is only external to the infinite essence.
According to Martin Luther, divine providence began when God created the world with everything needed for human life, including both physical things and natural laws.
Ase is divine energy that comes from Olodumare, the creator deity, and is manifested through Olorun, who rules the heavens and is associated with the Sun.
In Islamic circles, when the name of Muhammad is mentioned, it is customary to send blessings upon him to respect his high position.
Saints and their icons are often likened to Torah scrolls and are physically treated in similar ways- the tomb of a saint is like a Torah's ark, and the frames of icons are made with similar materials to Torah mantles.
But if the places are two, they will necessarily be finite, since what is infinite cannot be two in number.
The first four books of the Christian New Testament are the canonical gospels: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
It was split off from Biblica in 1969 as Elenchus Bibliographicus Biblicus, obtaining its final name in 1986.
The glory of the daimonic is in humble resurrection, though it claims more than it sets free as many foolish men are drawn into its vacuum never to return.
Islam Salah, including Quran recitation must be conducted in Classical Arabic (Qur'anic Arabic), which is the original language of the Qur'an.
In the twenty-first century, atomic theory was adopted by Islamic schools, including the Ibāḍī, to prove the existence of God.
The comparison between "David" and the new moon is based in Psalms 89:36–38, where God promises that the Davidic monarchy will be "established forever like the moon".
An analytic theologian might ask for what "broken" denotes given its connotations when used about the God of Christianity.
The shrub was accorded the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Merit in 1926, and the Award of Garden Merit in 1993.
It measures 8–18 centimeters (3.1–7.1 inches) in length and 3–5 centimeters (1.2–2.0 inches) in diameter, and contains numerous flat, somewhat round seeds that measure approximately 3 millimeters (0.12 inches) in diameter.
Its usage in reducing heat, boosting energy, and aiding in diuresis was also mentioned in Li Shizhen's Ming dynasty Compendium of Materia Medica.
Paratylenchus projectus is a plant pathogenic nematode infecting several hosts including African violet, soybean, and sunflower.
Distribution and habitat Narcissus calcicola is endemic to Portugal and is found primarily in crevices of limestone outcrops and less frequently in rocky clearings, on the edge of holm oak groves or even under forest cover.
Dracaena pethera, synonym Sansevieria kirkii, also known as the star sansevieria or the snake plant, is a succulent plant native to Tanzania and the surrounding region in East Africa.
During the growing season, spring and summer, Maranta houseplants require moist soil and fertilization every month.
The Hardy Plant Society is a British charity that promotes the cultivation of hardy herbaceous plants.
Hawaiian Polystichum also spread through long-distance dispersal, with two separate dispersal events leading to the three Polystichum now observed in Hawaii.
Iris nectarifera is a species in the genus Iris, it is also in the subgenus of Iris and in the Oncocyclus section.
Pitch pine has a high regenerative ability; if the main trunk is cut or damaged by fire, it can re-sprout using epicormic shoots.
It is native to Mexico and northern Central America, and has been introduced to Cuba and the Dominican Republic.
The fruit is an oblong drupe 8 mm (0.31 in) long, green at first, turning red, then finally black at full maturity, and contains a single seed.
In nature, banana slugs, Ariolimax columbianus, are selective in their diet and were not observed to feed on this plant.
The showy, funnel-shaped flowers are produced in an umbel-shaped inflorescence, colored red, orange or yellow, sometimes with a faint, but very sweet perfume.
External links View a map of herbarium records of this species at the Australasian Virtual Herbarium View observations of this species on iNaturalist See images of this species on Flickriver.com == References ==
Furthermore, growers can clean up plant debris to help remove the bacterium by removing any infected plants.
praecox, it has up to 20 poisonous, strap-like leaves per plant which are arching and are not leathery.
Subspecies There are two subspecies (treated as distinct species by some botanists), intergrading where they meet in northern Turkey at about 36°E longitude: Caucasian fir (Abies nordmanniana subsp.
A thornless shrub with a restrained climbing habit, reaching at most 2 m (7 ft), and with attractive evergreen leaves, it is available from commercial suppliers.
They are in the same family (Melastomataceae) as a native shrub Melastoma affine, which is known as native lasiandra.
Once established it is also quite drought hardy, though it benefits from the occasional deep watering during the summer months.
The leaf blade of the leaves is leathery, 25–75 mm or 1–3 in (and rarely 125 mm or 5 in) long, 2 to 5 millimetres wide, oblong spatulate to lanceolate, obtuse with a pointed base.
They are normally grown in part shade to full sun, in well-draining but moisture retentive soils, rich in humus.
It is occasionally grown as an ornamental tree in warm temperate climates, including New Zealand, the British Isles and California, but is not common in cultivation.
Furthermore, mastic is also essential to myron, the holy oil used for chrismation by the Orthodox Churches.
Uses The wood is hard and heavy, of a yellow/brown colour, ideal for making posts, for woodturning and as fuel.
It is closely related to Juniperus oxycedrus (Prickly Juniper) of the Mediterranean region and Juniperus brevifolia (Azores Juniper) of the Azores.
and Cynoglottis serpentinicola (Rech.f.) Holub) – North Macedonia, northeastern Greece, and Asiatic Turkey == References ==
It has also been extensively interbred with Rosa gigantea to produce Rosa × odorata and by further hybridization the tea roses and hybrid tea roses, and is the source of summer-blooming varieties and those with continuous flowering.
External links Quercus coccinea images from Vanderbilt University Archived 2011-06-06 at the Wayback Machine Interactive Distribution Map of Quercus coccinea Archived 2010-08-24 at the Wayback Machine photo of herbarium specimen at Missouri Botanical Garden, collected in Missouri in 1932
The species is covered with enlarged epidermal cells, called "bladder cells", the main function of which is to reserve water.
Cultivation Carex flacca is cultivated by plant nurseries as an ornamental plant, planted for accent or as a groundcover in gardens and public landscapes.
Cacti form a monophyletic group and apart from one species are native only to the New World, the Americas, but through parallel evolution similar looking plants in completely different families like the Apocynaceae evolved in the Old World.
Its fruits (called areca nuts or betel nuts) are chewed together with slaked lime and betel leaves for their stimulant and narcotic effects.
chinense is often pickled and served as a side dish in Japan and Vietnam to balance the stronger flavor of some other component in a meal.
In Hungary, it is confined to a single locality on Szársomlyó Hill (also known as Harsányi Hill) in the Villány Mountains.
Drimys winteri, also known as Winter's bark, foye and canelo, is a slender species of tree in the family Winteraceae, growing up to 20 m (66 ft) tall.
The name derives from the Greek word: ναρκὰο, narkào (= narcotic) and refers to the pungent and intoxicating smell of the flowers of some species (some argue that the word derives from the Persian word نرگس and is pronounced Nargis, indicating that this plant is intoxicating).
grandis, and other red-flowered species are known to be naturally pollinated by birds such as honeyeaters.
Individual flowers are reddish-purple and are occasionally replaced by bulbils (again making this a potentially invasive species).
It is grown as an ornamental plant for its scented flowers; several cultivars have been selected with flower colour ranging from white to dark blue.
This plant, often referred to as one of the "jewel" Alocasias (along with several other diminutive Alocasia types), became increasingly popular among plant hobbyists between the years 2018 to 2020.
Sesleria autumnalis, commonly known as autumn moor grass, is a species of grass within the family Poaceae.
Iris junonia is a tall growing species, with a slender and stiff stem, or peduncle, that can grow up to between 20 and 65 cm (8 and 26 in) tall.
Holm oak is not officially listed as an invasive species in the United Kingdom but is naturalised, able to naturally regenerate.
It is known as a pioneer species and is often the first tree to vegetate a site after it has been cleared away.
In typical savanna climates with warm wet and dry seasons, such as southern Florida, zoysia grasses grow during the warm-wet summer and are dormant in the drier, cooler winter months.
Although the Eastern Cape blue cycad can reproduce by suckering, more commonly reproduction requires insect pollination.
It is a variable, rhizomatous perennial, growing to 30 cm (12 in) tall and broad, with crowded clumps of evergreen, strikingly-marked oval leaves, each up to 12 cm (5 in) long.
The leaves and the cheese last about the same time, three or four days, and thus fresh leaves are a sign of a fresh cheese, while dried out leaves indicate that the cheese is past its prime.
Under ideal growing conditions, Stromanthe sanguinea will reach 4–6 ft (1.2–1.8 m) tall in about a year after emerging from its rhizome.
Odontonema callistachyum, the purple firespike, is a species of flowering plant in the family Acanthaceae.
Taxonomy The first recorded description of the species is attributed to Giovanni Antonio Scopoli, who referred to it as Phleum autumnale in the second edition of his book, Flora Carniolica, which was published in 1771.
Each plant may bear up to 30, conical, narrow, bell-shaped flowers, up to 0.75 in (1.9 cm) long, ranging in colour from deep purple to greenish brown.
References External links Pacific Island Ecosystems at Risk (PIER): Ruellia brevifolia (in Portuguese) Ruellia brevifolia (Pohl) Ezcurra (Acanthaceae): flowering phenology, pollination biology and reproduction Rev.
Begonia bowerae, the eyelash begonia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Begoniaceae, native to Oaxaca and Chiapas states of Mexico.
Native to northwestern Turkey, including the western Pontic Mountains as well as Uludağ and other mountains southeast of the Sea of Marmara.
Some botanists posit that it may date back to the Riss and Würm glaciations, while others suggest a Tertiary origin, thus rendering it one of the last vestiges of the subtropical vegetation that once dominated the region.
A tree in Lyme, Connecticut, measured in 2012, had a circumference of 18 ft 3 in; 6 m, or an average diameter at breast height of about 5.8 feet (5 ft 10 in; 1.8 m).
The leaves are broad ovate on the lower part of the stem, slender lanceolate on the upper part of the stem.
In northern Haiti, it grows along the tributaries of the Trois Rivières between Gros-Morne and Port-de-Paix, while in the south, it is found along the eastern edge of the Massif de la Hotte, between Miragoâne, Fond-des-Nègres and Fond-des-Blancs.
However, it is now considered that this plant is not indigenous to that island, and the seeds came from cultivated plants in Norfolk Island or Sydney.
In the 1990s there was confusion over this heritage cultivar and an Italian Group cultivar with pale yellow background and orange blobs (correctly called C.
Dracaena bagamoyensis, synonym Sansevieria bagamoyensis, also known as snake plant is a succulent plant native to Kenya and Tanzania.
gastonis-bonnieri have thick green leaves more or less with brownish spots and often form plantlets at leaf tips.
Cultivation A chance seedling, from the garden of Sir Peter Smithers at Vico Morcote in Switzerland, with more vigorous growth and larger flowers has been described as Magnolia "William Watson".
At low elevations near sea level: Commercial production: Australia (Queensland and New South Wales), New Zealand.
It very closely resembles the smaller related species, Dracaena serpenta and the more distichous species Dracaena phillipsiae.
Morphologically it most closely resembles Prunus sargentii but its chloroplast genome is most similar to Prunus serrulata var.
Description It is a coniferous evergreen tree, growing to 15–25 m (rarely to 30 m) in height, forming a wide, dense, conical crown.
The species require high humidity, especially when it is warm, though they are very sensitive to overwatering, where they would wilt or have scab-like bumps on their leaves.
In temperate subtropical regions- Commercial production: It is planted on the highlands of South Africa.
Tulipa linifolia, the flax-leaved tulip or Bokhara tulip, is a species of flowering plant in the tulip genus Tulipa (Clusiana group), family Liliaceae, native to Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, northern Iran and Afghanistan.
Ecology In the 19th century, it was reported as a very common weed of European wheat fields and its seeds were inadvertently included in harvested wheat seed and then resown the following season.
Young plants need shelter from cold winds; however mature specimens are hardy down to −15 °C (5 °F).
Each flower consists of a tubular purple-green to brown-green calyx and four linear or subulate (awl-shaped) red-brown petals, about twice the length of the sepals.
Euphorbia lathyris, the caper spurge or paper spurge, is a species of spurge native to Asia in western China, Kyrgyzstan and Pakistan and introduced elsewhere.
The single palm-like stem produces terminal tufts of strap-shaped, recurved leathery leaves, sometimes hair lock-shaped in the ends, and with occasional panicles of small white flowers once the plant reaches over 10 years of age.
It is native to Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay, but is now naturalized in Florida, Colombia, South Africa, and Mauritius.
In 2011, it was listed on the European Red List of Vascular Plants of the IUCN as 'Data Deficient' (DD).
Description Melica imperfecta is a perennial grass growing up to 1.2 metres (3.9 ft) in maximum height, and is classified as a bunchgrass by lacking rhizomes and corms.
Campanula means "bell-like" referring to the bell-shape of its flowers, while pyramidalis means pyramidal or conical, which refers to its conical shape.
Taxonomy The genus Clematis was first published by Carl Linnaeus in Species Plantarum in 1753, the first species listed being Clematis viticella.
The tree also makes an excellent landscape tree in moist areas, especially along roads and ditches where a good amount of water can be available.
The fruit is used to treat common colds, diabetes, asthma, headaches, diarrhea, and gallstones, while the roots are used as a diuretic.
This event was celebrated nationally on 29 May as Oak Apple Day, which continues to this day in some communities.
The standards are obovate shaped, slightly purple veined, 7–8.5 cm (3–3 in) long and 3.7–4.2 cm (1–2 in) wide.
Nematodes feed on the roots of the infected plants, taking up the virus with them as they do and allowing for the virus to travel between plants.
If the buds do open and yield a yellow-orange color, rather than white, the flower turns brown rather quickly and dies.
It grows in loose sand rather than finer-grained silty or clay-rich soils and does not tolerate water-logging.
Prunus canescens, the gray-leaf cherry (and hoary cherry, although that name is also used for Prunus incana), is a species of cherry native to China, found in Hubei and Sichuan provinces.
Host plants Buddleja – Buddleia, butterfly bush Himantoglossum hircinum – lizard orchid Scrophularia – figworts Verbascum – mulleins References Bibliography Heath, John; A.
Narcissus abcissus blooms in late spring and grows on slopes and high mountain valleys of the Pyrenees along the French-Spanish border.
It allows the plant to receive the proper airflow, which enhances the plant to grow strong and well while also preventing the plant from any potential diseases.
The plant forms dense surface roots and penetrating deep roots that are colonized by beneficial organisms such as mycorrhizal fungi.
This plant is grown as an ornamental, and it has been crossed and bred to develop a wide array of variations.
The needles are in fascicles (bundles) of three, about 6–13 centimetres (2+1⁄4–5 inches) in length, and are stout (over 1 millimetre or 1⁄16 inch broad) and often slightly twisted.
Therefore, the subspecies is considered to be ‘Nationally Critical’ according to the criteria defined by Townsend and colleagues in 2008.
Industrial and practical uses include the plant's potential as a form of biofuel, dye, pest control, plant fertiliser, soap, and as a natural form of lighting or lamp oil (typically kerosene), as well as for leather and tanning.
Iberis sempervirens, the evergreen candytuft or perennial candytuft, is a species of flowering plant in the family Brassicaceae, native to southern Europe.
Guadalupe cypress cones will open without fire, while Tecate cypress cones differ from any other species of California Cypress, in that even once disconnected from the parent tree, they will not open without heat.
Hybridization with Kentucky bluegrass During the 1990s, botanists began experimenting with producing hybrids of Texas bluegrass and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) for use as wintering foraging plant for grazing livestock and as a drought-resistant lawn grass.
Spokane, Washington, known as the "Lilac City", which holds an annual lilac festival and lilac parade.
Conservation status Red oak is not listed in the CITES Appendices, and is considered a least-concern species by the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
The flowers are very pale pink and heavily tessellated with a white throat and prominent yellow anthers.
Toxicity Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), and if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting.
The species name ilex was originally the classical Latin name for the holm oak, but later adopted as a botanical genus name for the hollies.
Pinus coulteri was discovered by Coulter on the mountains of Santa Lucia, near the Mission of San Antonio, at latitude 36°, within sight of the ocean and at an elevation between 3000 and 4000 feet above sea level.
Description It is an evergreen perennial growing to 8 metres (26 ft) in height, with an enormously expanded caudex for storing water.
In Western Asia, stocks were confirmed in Cyprus, Lebanon, the Palestine region, western Syria and western Turkey.
Description Growing to 6 m (20 ft) or more, it is an evergreen woody climber with oval leaves and clusters of pure white, waxy, intensely fragrant tubular flowers.
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory: Centre for Plant Biodiversity Research, Australian Government.
Cultivars The following cultivars have received the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit: 'Kelly's Eye' (pink) 'McDaniel's Cushion' (deep pink) 'Red Wings' (carmine red) See also Phlox stolonifera References Blanchan, Neltje (2002).
Acalypha hispida, the chenille plant, is a flowering shrub which belongs to the family Euphorbiaceae, the subfamily Acalyphinae, and the genus Acalypha.
References External links Media related to Ficus exasperata at Wikimedia Commons Antiarthritic and antioxidant effects of the leaf extract of Ficus exasperata P.
Description Mesembryanthemum crystallinum grows creeping stems, from 20–60 centimetres (8–23+1⁄2 inches) in length.
A virus-free selection was found in the 1950s and was certified and released in 1975 by the University of California as the 'Improved Meyer lemon' – Citrus × meyeri 'Improved'.
Some examples of acceptable substrate amendments for Alocasia (of all types) include perlite, pumice, small to medium orchid bark, coconut coir, coconut chips, sphagnum moss, LECA, or a combination of some or all.
Originally named Plectosphaera banksiae by Harry Swart, it was placed in the genus Phyllachora in 2001.
"The involvement of Narcissus hispanicus Gouan in the origin of Narcissus bujei and of cultivated trumpet daffodils (Amaryllidaceae)".
They are widespread in horticultural cultivation as ornamental trees, planted in gardens and parks around the world.
Branchlets at first downy, but soon become smooth, light yellowish green; later red brown, finally dark brown.
It is native to Japan, the Korean Peninsula, the Ryukyu Islands, and Taiwan, where it is common on rocky slopes and growing up the trunks of trees, especially in laurel forest, a type of cloud forest.
Nothofagus dombeyi, Dombey's beech, coigue, coihue or coigüe (from Mapudungun koywe) is a tree species native to southern Chile and the Andean parts of Argentine Patagonia.
In 1970 Elbert Luther Little published a paper where he argued that it was insufficiently distinct from Cupressus guadalupensis and therefore should be a variety with the name var.
Paeonia officinalis, the common peony, or garden peony, is a species of flowering plant in the family Paeoniaceae, native to mainly mountainous areas of Southern Europe and introduced in Central and Western Europe and North America.
Interns, aides, and other White House workers are often granted clippings of the famous plant which they grow and further distribute to friends and family.
The cultivar was named for the Caerhays estate's gardener, David Ivey, by Edgar Thurston in his book British & foreign trees and shrubs in Cornwall.
The tree is found only in the Santa Ana Mountains of Orange County and in San Diego County within Southern California, and in northern Baja California state of Mexico.
Lilium hansonii, known as Hanson's lily and Japanese Turk's-cap lily, is an East Asian species of plants in the lily family.
Betula maximowicziana, the monarch birch, is a species of birch tree native to the Kuril Islands and northern to central Japan.
The species tends to struggle without irrigation in arid climates such as the American West unless planted directly on or adjacent to a body of water such as a pond or stream.
Colchicum hungaricum, commonly known as the Hungarian crocus, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Colchicum.
In the British Isles it is popular in many parks and estates where it was introduced in the mid-19th century.
The pulchra variety has clearly more marked and partially prostrate leaves, with whitish green, buff-colored or almost reddish spots or irregular bands.
Activities The society aims to inform and encourage the novice gardener, stimulate and enlighten the more knowledgeable, and entertain and enthuse all gardeners bonded by a love for, and an interest in, hardy perennial plants.
The nymphs at their crawler stage may be transported by wind and it is possible that they, or the eggs, are sometimes carried on the legs of birds.
It should be grown in a loose potting soil, rich in organic matter and sand, and must be kept well-watered during the spring and summer.
References External links Data related to Nothofagus obliqua at Wikispecies Media related to Nothofagus obliqua at Wikimedia Commons "Nothofagus obliqua".
Verticordia nitens, commonly known as Christmas Morrison and other names, is a flowering plant in the myrtle family, Myrtaceae and is endemic to the south-west of Western Australia.
Distribution The species occurs naturally in parts of southern and central Africa, including South Africa, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Angola.
Artemisia schmidtiana, common name silver mound, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to Japan but widely cultivated as an ornamental.
The fruit is of low to zero toxicity, but may cause vomiting or diarrhea if consumed unripe or in large quantities.
The plant is also used in spells for prosperity, the flat pods (when ripe and silvery) resembling coins and therefore being seen as symbolising promises of wealth.
The best known cultivars are 'Fosteri', Foster holly, which does not require males to set fruit, and 'Savannah', with very showy red fruit.
It is a climber with large violet-purple blooms, still among the most familiar climbers seen in gardens.
Even Africa, the continent with the most native succulents, does not host many of the plants in its most dry regions.
Taxonomy For a general description of the taxonomic and nomenclature confusion, see Paghat's Garden, especially for the relationship between T.
Distribution and habitat Euonymus alatus′s native distribution extends from northeastern Asia to central China.
It bears 2 in (5.1 cm) long, nodding, tubular bell-shaped flowers that are apple green in colour, with blue anthers.
References External links Data related to Polystichum at Wikispecies Jepson Manual Treatment the Polystichum homepage
It is found at a wide range of elevations, generally in habitats that have limited competition from other plants.
Baja datura – Datura arenicola Black datura – Datura metel Hindu datura – Datura metel Leichhardt's datura – Datura leichhardtii Sacred datura – Datura wrightii Swamp datura – Datura ceratocaula Vizcaíno Desert datura – Datura arenicola Deadnettle – Lamium spp.
An ethanol leaf extract (tincture) has been shown to effectively inhibit the infection of Vero cells by HSV-1, HSV-2 and an ACV-resistant strain of the latter, in vitro.
Nothofagus obliqua, commonly known as Patagonian oak, roble, pellín, roble pellín, and hualle in its early state of growth or roble beech, is a deciduous tree from Chile and Argentina.
Ruellia brevifolia, the tropical wild petunia or red Christmas pride, is an ornamental plant in the family Acanthaceae.
Gallery References ANU Forestry Illawarra plum - Podocarpus elatus Bruneteau, Jean-Paul, Tukka, Real Australian Food, ISBN 0-207-18966-8.
See also Allium tuberosum, also known as garlic chives – Species of onion native to southwestern parts of the Chinese province of Shanxi Pickled onion – Onions pickled in a solution of vinegar or salt References External links Botanical drawing of Allium chinense at Tropicos.org "Allium chinense".
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, then updated on 3 December 2004.
It is cultivated as an ornamental in many countries and naturalized in Venezuela, Mexico, the West Indies, Ascension Island, Sri Lanka, Fiji, the Solomon Islands and the Society Islands.
Its spine-tipped leaves are 12-16mm thick, elliptical (rather than round) in cross-section, and pale to dark green depending on sun exposure.
Horticulture To produce flowers it sometimes is necessary to remove and save for propagation all side rosettes.
Seed manufacturers began marketing the first of these hybrids, often termed "heat-tolerant bluegrasses", in the first decade of the 21st century.
Hibiscus 'Albo Lacinatus' is a cultivar of Hibiscus that was hybridized no later than the late 1700s or early 1800s, making it one of the earliest Hibiscus cultivars.
From spring to early summer, the 1 inch wide, pale pink flowers are borne with yellow stamens in the center.
The plant flowers on the year's new growth, so pruning is best done in early spring, before the plant leafs out.
The eggs hatch into nymphs which crawl away from the mother along the branches to find foliage, where they start to suck sap.
The name is derived from the surname of German horticulturist Georg Arends who was responsible for nearly all hybrid cultivars sold in North America.
Ficus stephanocarpa (also meaning 'crowned fruit') as described by the German botanist Otto Warburg is a synonym.
As host plant American sycamore is the host plant of the sycamore tussock moth, a species that specializes in it, and a major host plant for the drab prominent moth.
A shrub or shrubby tree reaching 12 ft (4 m), it is hardy in USDA zones 3 to 7, and is recommended for borders, loose hedges, and foundations.
It is known to be toxic to Australian native stingless bees, such as Lipotriches (Austronomia) flavoviridis.
Lilium hansonii is named for Peter Hanson (1821–1887), a Danish–born American landscape artist who was an aficionado of tulips and also grew lilies.
The type collection was made from a Banksia integrifolia plant in Lake Tyers, Victoria (Australia) in May, 1986.
References Flora Europaea: Campanula pyramidalis Plants for a Future: Campanula pyramidalis Huxley, A., ed.
Inflorescence The almost sessile, small white flowers are fragrant, which occur from late winter to spring.
Wynter returned in 1580 with a supply of Drimys bark, and for centuries before vitamin C was isolated, "Winter's Bark" was esteemed as a preventive and remedy for scurvy— correctly so, for an infusion of D.
- Sicily, Malta, Albania, Greece, Turkey, Cyprus, Syria, Lebanon, Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco Allium sphaerocephalon subsp.
Friedrich Wilhelm Schultz gave the species its current name, Sesleria autumnalis in his book Archives de Flore.
In Central America and part of Southern Mexico, the flower is extracted in hot water and taken as tea for these medical purposes.
A large shrub or small tree, it is typically found on slopes, canyons, and streambanks at elevations from 500 to 6,000 m (1,600 to 19,700 ft).
The leaves are scale-like, 2–4 mm (0.079–0.157 in) long, blunt tipped (obtuse), green above, and green below with a white stomatal band at the base of each scale-leaf.
The species has been referred to by several heterotypic synonyms, including: Sesleria elongata, Aira alba, and Sesleria argentea var.
Zapata & Smagghe 2010 test the essential oils of bark and leaves and find that both are repellent and usable as a fumigant against Tribolium castaneum.
The colour of the flower comes from the Crozy side, but the petal form is heavily influenced by the thinner and larger C.
Intergeneric hybrid It is closely related to Fremontodendron, sufficiently to produce an intergeneric hybrid ×Chiranthofremontia lenzii Henrickson, which has yellow flowers and a reduced form of the claw.
Besides central and eastern China, Euonymus alatus also appears in Korea, in Japan, and on the island of Sakhalin in Russia.
The cultivars 'Adcock's Dwarf' and 'Bonnie Bergman' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Malus × robusta, called Siberian crab apple along with other members of its genus, is a hybrid species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
Description Cladrastis kentukea is a small to medium-sized deciduous tree typically growing 10–15 metres (33–49 ft) tall, exceptionally to 27 metres (89 ft) tall, with a broad, rounded crown and smooth gray bark.
Succulents can be propagated in a number of ways, with vegetative propagation being the most common.
Viburnum lantana, the wayfarer or wayfaring tree, is a species of Viburnum, native to central, southern and western Europe (north to Yorkshire in England), northwest Africa, and southwestern Asia.
Dracaena spathulata is a species of flowering plant in the family Asparagaceae, native to South Africa (KwaZulu-Natal), Mozambique, Zimbabwe, and Tanzania.
The iris has straight or slightly falcate (sickle-shaped), grey-green, glaucous, and sheathing leaves that can grow up to between 12 and 38 cm (5 and 15 in) long, and between 3 and 5 cm (1 and 2 in) wide.
Zephyranthes robusta, commonly known as the Brazilian copperlily, pink fairy lily or the pink rain lily, is a species of herbaceous flowering bulb in the family Amaryllidaceae.
Habitat Away from its native range, it is widely naturalised in many regions, where it is often considered an invasive weed.
Phlox subulata the creeping phlox, moss phlox, moss pink or mountain phlox, is a species of flowering plant in the family Polemoniaceae, native to the eastern and central United States, and widely cultivated.
The flowers are 8–9 cm (3–4 in) in diameter, they have a dingy-white, whitish, or pale background, which has many spots and dark veining, in black-purple, brown-purple, or brown violet, or brown shades.
Uses Culinary uses The plant is grown for its ornamental appeal but also for the edible oblong purplish fruits.
Scenic viewpoints may be created alongside scenic routes or mountain roads, often as simple turnouts or lay-bys where motorists can pull over onto pavement, gravel, or grass on the right-of-way.
In September 1983, unidentified persons uprooted 88 apple trees that were planted in Raušić near Peć.
During an area scan (i.e., an observation sweeping from left to right), the activity of the individual is coded as sedentary, moderate, or vigorous.
A more recent example of a linear park is the Berlin Mauerpark, which was built on a part of the former Berlin Wall area and its adjacent former death strip.
This southern extension was never built, but construction began on the current PIP in New York on April 1, 1947.
The shield shows a white rose encircled by a golden sun, known heraldically as a 'white rose en soleil' which is really a combination of two distinct badges.
But it turns out that the organ has nothing to do with reproduction: Fritz is a female, and the smaller primate with whom he shares a cage is a male.
It consists of Basalt Island, Bluff Island, Wang Chau, their surrounding islets, and Kam Chung Ngam (金鐘岩) in the southern part of Jin Island.
Shaman Creek is in Mount Edziza Provincial Park, which lies within the traditional territory of the Tahltan First Nation, of the Tahltan people.
In the park there is a limestone statue of the Lion, which was donated in 1886 by the Nijmegen embellishment association.
In this analysis the Coalition found that community outreach and context sensitivity were important characteristics included throughout the documented examples and were weighted considerably in determining the efficiency and effectiveness of examined policies.
The placita (Spanish for "little plaza"), as it is known in the Southwestern United States, is a common feature within the boundaries of the former provincial kingdom of Santa Fe de Nuevo México.
It runs from Helmsley in the west to Scalby Mills on the North Sea coast and measures 48 miles (77 km).
The ticketed shows are largely free or have low admission fees, and educational programming and performances are scheduled for six days a week.
In 1915, the city used some of the money for the acquisition of a piece of land on the north side of Provstevænget.
The first sections complete and open to traffic extended east of US 41 and included the interchanges with then-new I-75, and with mainline SR 120.
Karimpuzha National Park (Malayalam: കരിമ്പുഴ നാഷണൽ പാർക്ക്‌) is a 230 km² proposed National Park located at 11°16′30″N 76°25′25″E in the Nilgiri Hills area of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, in South India, IUCN category: PRO History Madras Forest Act came into force in 1882.
The park is on the site of the Roaring River Estate which belonged to the Beckford family: Peter Beckford, William Beckford.
A portrait of the library's creator Guillaume Favre is part of the Geneva Musée d'Art et d'Histoire collection.
Other possible social benefits that are claimed include decreased crime, from having more eyes on the street, and safe places where children can play and adults relax.
During February and March 1981, the planting was undertaken in Smederevo, Tuzla, Vinkovci, Zelenikovo, Trnje, Bihać, Titograd, Ulcinj, and in several local communities in Slovenia and Timok Valley.
A Legambiente survey report cites historical counts of hundreds of gardens on the island (e.g., 322 in the early 1800s and 421 after Italian unification), while a horticultural study notes that hundreds remain in use in the modern period.
From January 1990 to August 2000, CPSC received reports of 147 deaths of children younger than 15 that involved playground equipment.
The route is named for the Hudson River Palisades, a line of cliffs rising along the western side of the Hudson River.
Parklets have also been created in Mexico in Puebla de Zaragoza during the PueblaDesignFest The first Parklet on the street in London has been installed in July 2015.
Today, the road's racing past can still be seen in the name of the Speedway Terrace Historical District along North Parkway near Watkins Street.
Mimaland was built on a hilly area of 300 acres (120 ha) in Ulu Gombak near Kuala Lumpur, served by an exit to the old Gombak-Bentong road.
Trampling studies have consistently documented that impacts on soil and vegetation occur rapidly with initial use of desire paths.
Many memorial alleys and parks planted during the initiative still stand today as a good example of urban greening.
A portable charcoal grill is usually quite compact and has features that make it easier to transport, making it a popular grill for tailgating.
In July 2003, the Casino became a non-smoking establishment; closure of its smoking lounges followed in May 2006 with the passing of a new provincial law.
Flower Hill Park was formerly owned and operated by Nassau County prior to being purchased by Flower Hill.
It describes a place where there was once a row of tumbledown cottages infested with rats (raton) and dates to the 14th century or earlier, predating the London derivation.
In New South Wales, there are planned marine parks which will stretch along the coastline of the entire state.
Nielsen "wanted New Yorkers to feel delight and excitement around every turn from the moment they set foot here." To accomplish this, the plantings were arranged in specific color patterns.
Musha' lands (مشاع) are agricultural common lands owned jointly by the community and loosely taxed, as defined in the Land Code of 1858.
On June 26, 2009 King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX) named the park "Nagaraphirom", meaning "delightful park for the townspeople".
It is a Geological Conservation Review site, recognised as being nationally important for its south-western lowland heath communities and for transitions from ancient semi-natural woodland through upland heath to blanket mire.
18th century In 1689, William III moved his residence to Kensington Palace on the far side of Hyde Park and had a drive laid out across its southern edge which was known as the King's Private Road.
The initiative was officially launched on 1 April 1981, but planting of 88 trees had already started in some places soon after Tito's funeral.
Harbour The harbour authority is made up of representatives from the civil parish councils of Wembury, Yealmpton, Brixton and "Newton and Noss".
The final report was released in March 2013 along with partners at the UCLA Lewis Center for Regional Policy Studies.
While the Acts provide for subpoenas and inspection of property, there are no provisions governing interrogatories or disclosure of documents.
The Roaring River runs underground, before appearing near to Petersfield, close to the Roaring River Cave, a series of limestone caverns with a small mineral spring inside.
Grass is typically kept short to discourage insect pests and to allow for the enjoyment of picnics and sporting activities.
The largest urban parks system in Australia is the Western Sydney Parklands, which is 5,280 ha (13,000 acres) in size and 27 km (17 mi) in length.
In 1898, Roskilde inherited a large sum of money from the textile manufacturer Otto Henrich Schmeltz.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Structural design Little Island is supported by 132 pot-shaped structures, known as "tulips", which are suspended above the water.
History On 21 December 1948, Basalt Island was the site of the first commercial airliner crash in Hong Kong, in which all 35 people onboard, including five women, one child and seven crew, were killed.
Other related problems are the lack of infrastructure to maintain the conservation units and a series of impasses with indigenous leaders, as seen in the Ilha do Cardoso State Park, Superagüi National Park and Monte Pascoal National Park.
The track was called Route du Roi, French for King's Road, which was eventually corrupted into "Rotten Row".
Attractions Pavilion Construction of the Columbus Bicentennial Pavilion was the signature capital project celebrating Columbus’ bicentennial in 2012.
Shawnee National Forest was created in 1939, and in 1990, the Illinois Wilderness Act set aside seven separate parcels of land within this National Forest as relatively small wilderness areas.
Transport within the park for people lacking mobility and disabled visitors is provided free of charge by Liberty Drives, located at Triangle Carpark.
All profits were donated to the 'Local Welcome Home Fund' for returning soldiers, sailors and airmen.
Funding and management – Concerns were raised that a fourth national park in Wales would reduce the funding to the existing three.
The house of the park could also be hired for private celebrations by both private citizens as well as societies, often to celebrate royal events.
The Reform Tower, also known as the Earl Grey Tower in Stanton Moor, Derbyshire, is a monument to the 1832 Reform Act.
This was done in collaboration with the Singapore Sports Council (SSC) and the Seletar Country Club.
The design for Columbus is exclusive: a one-of-a-kind, white tensile fabric canopy structure with a 40-foot by 60-foot stage and lighting, video, and sound equipment.
Built after the 1755 Lisbon earthquake, the Passeio become an important fixture in the Lisbon landscape in the 19th century and was a meeting point for the upper echelons of Portuguese society.
Columbus Commons is also the summer home of the Columbus Symphony Orchestra and has hosted their summer performance series, Picnic with the Pops, since 2012.
The expansion to the playground contains an explorer dome, which opened on August 1; the village hired playground supplier Komplan for the new equipment's installation.
produced one of the earliest products of mass-produced cast-iron seating in America, an example of which is held by the Smithsonian Institution as inv.
Many Toronto-based festivals began to follow suit, from 1987 until its commercial redevelopment in 2005.
The other seven are Bald Knob Wilderness, Bay Creek Wilderness, Burden Falls Wilderness, Clear Springs Wilderness, Crab Orchard Wilderness, Garden of the Gods, and Lusk Creek Wilderness.
A three-part documentary series on the history of the gardens and Hunte's personal journey was also reportedly in development.
Te Urewera is an area of mostly forested, sparsely populated rugged hill country in the North Island of New Zealand, located inland between the Bay of Plenty and Hawke Bay.
They have also been popularly described as "Arab gardens", although detailed surveys note that the origin attribution is not securely documented.
Major changes began in 1950 with the passage of a new Parks Act, the transferring of responsibilities for parks to the Department of Lands and Forests, and the creation of a new three-person Parks Board.
Fenwick2 today Until 2022, Fenwick2 functioned as a social enterprise community centre offering a range of health and social care services.
In addition to its botanical features, the site retains elements of its colonial past, with stone buildings and structures that date back several centuries.
The term is used more broadly to encompass woodland, moorland, sports grounds, buildings, roads and urban parks.
The station opened on 12 March 2017 with relatively basic facilities and initially serving a limited number of lines.
This list of urban parks by size includes parks at least 404.7 hectares (1,000 acres) or 4 square kilometres (1.5 sq mi) and contained entirely within a locality's municipal or metropolitan boundary.
Biosphere Reserves The Biosphere Reserve is a collection of conservation units established by UNESCO with the aim of promoting more regional actions in the conservation of the different biomes around the world.
From time on, many scenic viewpoints have since become tourist attractions, with numerous vistas inscribed as world heritage-listed natural sites.
References Bibliography TIGER BALM GARDENS A Chinese Billionaire's Fantasy Environments, Judith Brandel & Tina Turbeville, 1998 Aw Boon Haw Foundation ISBN 962 672 052 2
In the US, wall-mounted or curbside mailboxes that are only designed for receiving incoming mail are known as "limited-service" mailboxes, while mailboxes equipped with a mechanism for notifying the postman to collect outgoing mail from the mailbox are known as "full service" mailboxes.
In the early hours of 26 January 2003 about 120 bars and other businesses on this plot of land were demolished.
Etymology The etymology of the word gardening refers to enclosure: it is from Middle English gardin, from Anglo-French gardin, jardin, of Germanic origin; akin to Old High German gard, gart, an enclosure or compound, as in Stuttgart.
Skjaldbreiður (Icelandic pronunciation: [ˈscaltˌpreiːðʏr̥] , "broad shield") is an Icelandic lava shield formed in a huge and quite protracted eruption series from about roughly 9,500 years ago.
Basalt Island or Fo Shek Chau (Chinese: 火石洲; Sidney Lau: Foh2 Sek6 Jau1) is an island of Hong Kong and administratively part of Sai Kung District.
The college, not the town, still owns it and surrounded it with buildings as a sort of collegiate quadrangle in the 1930s, although its origin as a town green remains apparent.
Later Chinese philosophers and historians cited this garden as an example of decadence and bad taste.
In the summer time, an orchestra played here, art performances and various musical concerts were held.
Tiger Balm Gardens are public gardens that existed or continue to exist in three East Asia locations.
Greenprinting is the creation of conservation scenarios that help communities make informed conservation decisions.
Martin quickly becomes aware of the degradation of being a zoo animal, while Fritz is forced to cope with life in a confusing and threatening alien society.
Infrared grills allow users to more easily adjust cooking temperature than charcoal grills, and are usually able to reach higher temperatures than standard gas grills, making them popular for searing items quickly.
According to the official decision, this initiative had "ideological, educational and commemorative character." It was stipulated that 88 trees can be planted wherever there is enough space that is publicly owned.
Name The Agricola Park (Polish: Park Agrykola) is named after the nearby Agrykola Street, which in turn was named after Karol Ludwik Agricola, an engineer who designed it in the 18th century.
Development Concept and creation The season follows the adventures of Finn the Human, a human boy, and his best friend Jake, a dog with magical powers to change shape and grow and shrink at will.
The park, set on a steeply sloping parcel, has no major amenities, and was established for passive recreational uses of the nearby population.
In 1999, the Waitangi Tribunal published a 520-page working paper which analysed the history of the region and concluded that the Crown had never intended to allow Tūhoe self-government.
This support ensures that seed users understand the importance of high quality seed of a UK origin for UK conservation work, as well as providing them with the skills needed to use the seed.
The region is isolated, with State Highway 38 being the only major arterial road crossing it, running from Waiotapu near Rotorua via Murupara to Wairoa.
History In 1850, Socrates Hotchkiss Tryon Sr., pioneer settler, established a donation land claim at the south end of the canyon.
Most of Te Urewera is in the eastern Bay of Plenty Region and northern Hawke's Bay Region, with a small part in the Gisborne District.
''Upper Circum-Bug Lands'') is a planned national park in Ukraine, located in Khmelnytskyi Oblast, in the western part of the country.
Safdie himself warned the city of this new tactic, stating that development projects in Toronto were being approved, then subsequently revised to provide a lower-quality, lower-cost development in place of an approved project.
External links Overview map of Schachten in the Bavarian Forest National Park Information and map of all surviving Schachten at waldberge.de Archived 2014-04-06 at the Wayback Machine
History The earliest written record was in 1850, when it was described in the Plymouth Gazette as a cattle fair.
Viewing points may also be found on hill or mountain tops or on rocky spurs overlooking a valley and reached via a hiking trail.
The Animal Kingdom is filled with artificial sculptures of some animals like flamingos, dinosaurs, Pegasus and many more.
Agricola Park (Polish: Park Agrykola), also known as Agrykola Park, and the North Baths (Polish: Łazienki Północne), is an urban park in the city of Warsaw, located within the district of Downtown, to the north from the Royal Baths Park.
Studies in both the United States and Taiwan have found that picnic table vandalism is most likely to occur when the picnic table has already been vandalized.
Playscapes may also offer a wide range of open-ended play options that allow people to be creative and use their imagination including sand or earth to sculpt and blocks or other materials to build with.
This mountain range, like both the La Sal Range and Henry Mountains in the same part of the Colorado Plateau, is formed about igneous intrusions that are relatively resistant to erosion.
This is a list of protected areas in Kosovo which includes 2 national parks, 11 nature reserves, 99 natural monuments and 3 protected landscapes.
The Old Stone Fort is a prehistoric Native American structure located in Coffee County, Tennessee, in the Southeastern United States.
In 1989, it was decided to cancel the pony classes following an outbreak of Equine flu (these were replaced with terrier races, which have continued ever since).
With a dynamic mix of perennials, shrubs, ornamental grasses, evergreens and annuals, there’s something beautiful to see year-round.
This episode and chapter feature Jean Pierre Polnareff leading the group to Tiger Balm Garden for his confrontation with Mohammed Avdol.
Features The park displays a set of fighter jet, airplane, battle tank, rocket launcher, amphibious tank etc.
On August 11, 2010 fifteen people were injured as a train entered a curve at the park going between 12 and 17 miles per hour (19 and 27 km/h), causing five of the six cars to tip over.
There Karl Friedrich Schinkel and Ludwig Persius built Charlottenhof Palace on the site of a former farm house and Peter Joseph Lenné was commissioned with the garden design.
These forest clearings are especially interesting because they are the only open areas in these huge forests and often have good views.
Reception At the opening of the park, architecture critic Michael Kimmelman wrote for The New York Times that the design concept "is in the theatrical vein of 18th century English garden follies".
It divides into several side valleys and extends in the direction of Belchen (Schwarzwald), via the district of Stohren towards the Schauinsland and via the Münsterhalde towards Badenweiler.
For several hundred years, Provstevænget belonged to the Provost's House (Danish_ Provstegården) and was grazed by cattle.
The volcano summit is at 1,066 m (3,497 ft), and its crater measures roughly 300 m (980 ft) in diameter.
A playground began construction in November 2016 which was completed on May 23, 2017, with the ribbon cutting ceremony being held on June 5, 2017.
Panther Den Wilderness is located in the Lick Creek quadrangle, inside Union County, just below the Williamson County border.
As the result of the denudation process only the base of those mountains were left represented by the solid crystalline type of rock.
The Haw Par Mansion, together with its private garden, is preserved as a museum at the site of the Hong Kong Garden.
Hans Watzlik created a literary monument to another fabled forest herdsman from the Lusen area in his novel Der wilde Eisengrein.
It is situated within Jean-Drapeau Park, an urban park and former grounds of Expo 67, and shares the island with the Gilles Villeneuve racing circuit, the Olympic Basin and an artificial lake with small beach.
The silver mining of the Middle Ages brought Münster, how Münstertal was called back then, great wealth.
Located in a sinkhole-like gully, on land that was once a sugarcane plantation, the garden has developed into one of Barbados's most popular horticultural attractions.
Synopsis In the year 2002, the Berlin Zoo acquires a new specimen: "Fritz", a biped from "Brecht's planet".
The bee museum is known across the borders of Baden and shows the cohabitation of men and bees from the Stone Age to the present.
Pop-Culture References Jojo's Bizarre Adventure - Seen in the fifth episode of Stardust Crusaders (the thirty-first episode of the JoJo's Bizarre Adventure anime) and Chapter 12 of Volume 3 of JoJo's Bizarre Adventure.
After the death of Helen, on 14 October 2022, Fatou became the last surviving gorilla born in the 1950s.
A free 27-minute SOPLAY/SOPARC Introduction, Practice, and Assessment Training DVD is available from Active Living Research.
The project was developed by Columbus Downtown Development Corporation (CDDC) and Capitol South Community Urban Redevelopment Corporation (Capitol South).
The Arc Corner surveyed by Mason and Dixon is also within the park, and is marked by a monument erected in 1892.
As the brook passes through, there are two sets of waterfalls created, with a drop of around 20 metres.
Characteristics The Agricola Park is placed between Baths Route, Hopfera Avenue, Agrykola Street, and the peaks of the Warsaw Escarpment.
Three provincially operated campgrounds, Falcon Creek, Falcon Beach and Falcon Lakeshore, picnic areas, a swimming beach and adjacent public boat launch, several cottage lot divisions and numerous tourist services make the community a favored entrance point to the provincial park.
The park, which stretches from the lighthouse south to Coler Hospital, was designed by landscape architect Nicholas Quennell in 1977 following the lighthouse's decommission.
It was enclosed as a deer park and remained a private hunting ground until James I permitted limited access to gentlefolk, appointing a ranger to take charge.
Craigie and his wife were drowned in Otter Tail Lake in 1872 and after long litigation the mill was torn down.
The Yale of Beaufort The Yale was a mythical beast, supposedly white and covered with gold spots and able to swivel each of its horns independently.
In addition, the design of Renaissance gardens also incorporated elements from Arabic horticultural traditions, often with a Christian reinterpretation.
The parcels of land are distributed so no one is assigned the same parcel for two consecutive periods.
In 2008, the Granite steppes of Buh became of the Seven Natural Wonders of Ukraine and later was nominated as the world wonder candidate.
Widecombe Fair is an annual fair in England, held in the Dartmoor village of Widecombe-in-the-Moor on the second Tuesday of September.
But the Neptune Grotto, finished in 1757 in the eastern part of the park, was used just as little for its intended function as the fountain facilities.
As a result, the area saw a 366 percent increase in weekday bicyclists and 540 percent increase in weekend bicyclists.
La Grange library In the villa La Grange there are some rooms for the rich library with more than 12,000 old books which today are a precious part of the Bibliothèque de Genève.
The width and severity of its surface erosion are often indicators of the traffic level it receives.
After a radical reorganization, the park was given the appearance in 2005 of a quiet, modern city park.
DuPont donated 1,234 acres to Pennsylvania and 528 acres to Delaware to form the bi-state White Clay Creek Preserve.
See also 2021 Russia–United States summit References External links Parc et Villa La Grange Parc de la Grange La Grange.
Pocket parks prevent overdevelopment in dense neighborhoods and vary the form of the built environment with islands of shade, quiet, and privacy, which may otherwise be difficult to find in urban areas.
On 11 December 2019, a Supreme Court decision put the future of some village greens at risk in England and Wales.
This constituted about one fifth of the commons, but the 1925 act did not give this right to commons in essentially rural areas (although some urban districts had remarkably rural extent, such as the Lakes Urban District), which had to wait for the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000.
Near this spot James Craigie of Aberdeen, Scotland, who came to Otter Tail County about 1868 built the first grist mill in the county in 1870.
Open play The park features several other amenities for visitors including a NEOS electronic playground.
The underlying idea is a "protection through usage", so the acceptance and participation of the population in the protection of the cultural landscape and nature is very important.
They judder slowly along ill-made roads, like carts with square wheels, and the beauty of the scenery through which they pass does not entirely distract the passenger's mind from his aching bottom and tired eyes.
The unicorn holds a shield showing the royal arms of Scotland, a lion rampant within a double tressure flory-counter-flory.
Page Street had previously ended at Fairground Street, and the extension completed all parts of the loop except one final part.
Tabular Hills walk The Tabular Hills walk loosely links the two southerly ends of the Cleveland Way National Trail, enabling walkers to walk the complete perimeter of the North York Moors National Park.
Over the centuries, the earthen fill has spilled over the rock layers, giving the walls their current mound-like appearance.
A neighborhood park primarily serves residents within about 1/4 mile of the park, without physical or social barriers to the boundaries.
Beginning in 1528, King Francis I created new gardens at the Château de Fontainebleau, which featured fountains, parterres, a forest of pine trees brought from Provence, and the first artificial grotto in France.
Developmental benefits Playscapes offer a wide range of benefits such as increasing physical activity, fine and gross motor skills & cognitive development.
The design team was made up of construction manager Corna-Kokosing, architects Moody Nolan and landscape architects EDGE Group.
Artifact Creek's watershed covers 42.5 km2 (16.4 sq mi) and is entirely in Mount Edziza Provincial Park.
In 2006, the park was purchased from Nassau County by the Village of Flower Hill – along with the portion of Stonytown Road located within Flower Hill.
Suitable plantings Larger vegetables such as bell peppers or large tomatoes tend to break the vine; smaller peppers such as cayenne peppers and tabasco pepper have lower weight and thus gravity does not stress the vine to breakage.
In the US and Canada, rural curbside mailboxes may be found grouped together at property boundaries or road/driveway intersections, depending upon conditions.
Examples include Ballincollig Regional Park (managed by Cork City Council), Millennium Regional Park (Fingal County Council), and Malahide Demesne Regional Park (also Fingal County Council).
Due to a change in inter-provincial alcohol production regulations, the Molsons plant was closed and abandoned in September 2000.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Latina and Moncloa-Aravaca); 121.1 ha.
The clients took walks in the park, had dinner, listened to a concert, often with a singer as well, watched a performance of some kind, and danced.
Academic Douglas Robillard praised the manner in which Knight illustrated many of his themes, declaring that "Knight shows a prodigality of invention in his tale, capable of sustaining a much longer novel, or even another book".
Using native plants, rolling hills, and many trees, these playscapes may represent a natural place such as a forest.
The music management company Blackhill Enterprises held the first rock concert in Hyde Park on 29 June 1968, attended by 15,000 people.
Traditionally, the park use patterns have been studied by direct observation - either in person or video recording.
South Parkway East becomes East Parkway South once again at its intersection with Airways Boulevard and Spottswood Avenue.
Located on Maharat Road, Phra Borom Maha Ratchawang Subdistrict, Phra Nakhon District behind the Grand Palace between Tha Tian (N8) and Tha Chang Wang Luang Pier (N9).
On the territory of the new garden sports grounds were arranged, a greenhouse was established and an alley of lime trees was planted.
In the Netflix series Bridgerton, season two, episode three, Jack Featherington suggests “Rotten Row, perhaps?” as a place to promenade with a lady he intends to spend time with.
The Granite-steppe lands of Buh (Ukrainian: Регіональний ландшафтний парк «Гранітно-степове Побужжя») is a regional landscape park in the north-west of Mykolaiv Oblast in Ukraine.
National Park Rangers in particular, all park rangers share a common uniform regardless of work assignment.
and is sometimes considered as a separate southern part of the Oddnýjarhnjúkur-Langjökull volcanic system which it is usually classified as being within.
They increase participation rates and decrease absenteeism, decrease bullying, decrease injury rates, increase focus and attention span and help with social skills in schools.
Personalities Hans Karl Abel (1876–1951), author, died in Mühlbach Willibald Strohmeyer (1877–1945), Catholic priest, was murdered in Münstertal at the end of the Second World War.
The slopes of the valley retained the parts of the rocky (petrofit) steppe and leftovers of the grass-rich of the Gramineae- type and shrub-rich steppes.
Additionally, many public squares were created in towns and cities across the UK as part of urban redevelopment following the Blitz.
A plaque on the wall of the Fenwick2 building reads that George Fenwick constructed the hospital "to the Glory of God and for the suffering poor of Lyndhurst and neighbourhood".
Turnerville quickly became one of the state's most popular attractions, but it was plagued by damage from adjacent Turkey Creek flooding and a fire burned down the Indian pueblo in 1935.
Landscape architects and designers are increasingly using the term to refer to areas of cities that encourage interaction and enjoyment for all ages.
They have also shaped the outdoor educational profession in other ways: in 1983, at a meeting of the Association of Experiential Education, women educators met around a picnic table at midnight to discuss the problems facing women in the field of outdoor education.
Though charcoal grills can sometimes require new cooking grids and charcoal grates, gas grills are much more complex, and require additional components such as burners, valves, and heat shields.
Neighborhood parks are largely accessible by foot, bicycle, or public transit within at least a quarter-mile radius from residences, providing easy access especially for children and senior adults.
Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions One benefit of aerobic home composting is the reduction in methane emissions, one of the most threatening greenhouse gases to the environment.
villosa at Wikimedia Commons Calflora Database: Monardella villosa (Coyote mint) Jepson Manual eFlora (TJM2) treatment of Monardella villosa USDA Plants Profile for Monardella villosa (coyote mint) University of Michigan: Ethnobotany of Monardella villosa UC Photos gallery — Monardella villosa
It is a plant of varied moist habitats, including freshwater lakes and brackish marshes and ponds, ditches, vernal pools, and wet meadows.
The weight of the stones resists the pressure from the retained soil, including any surcharges, and the friction between the stones causes most of them to act as if they were a monolithic gravity wall of the same weight.
Gallery References External links Jepson Manual (1993)—description of introduced species and non-native California distribution
Description Castilleja exserta is an annual herb about 100–450 millimetres (4–18 in) tall with a hairy stem covered in thready leaves.
and, in particular, its North American species, were divided by Sereno Watson (1873) into three parts: Lupinus, Platycarpos and Lupinnelus.
The inflorescence is a panicle up to 50 centimeters long which is often purplish in color, with grayish spikelets.
Echeveria lilacina, common name ghost echeveria or Mexican hens and chicks, is a species of succulent plants in the genus Echeveria belonging to the family Crassulaceae.
When the substance congeals, stirring ceases, and the substance is then allowed to burn completely while remaining in the ceramic skillet.
This thorny, flowering, fruit-bearing shrub is also deciduous, and grows vertically up to six feet tall.
Description The Aloe succotrina plant forms clusters of between 1–2 metres (3.3–6.6 ft) diameter, with its leaves forming dense rosettes.
He was able to deduce that most of the 165-pound (75 kg) weight of Van Helmont's willow tree derived from air.
In several locations, primary sulfides have been oxidised due to surface weathering down to about 100 meters below the surface, which resulted in significant cobalt enrichment and transformation to oxidic ore minerals, such as heterogenite.
Stamens 5 to 10 cm (2.0 to 3.9 in) long, are declinate, inserted in one continuous zone from throat to 35 mm (1.4 in) above the pericarpel and cream.
The male catkins are yellow and oval-shaped; the female catkins are longer and more cylindrical; they mature in early summer when the fruit capsules split open to release the numerous minute seeds.
Studies have also shown anti-inflammatory properties against pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-ɑ and anti-bacterial properties against macrophages and gram-postivie bacteria.
Identification Typically, the Calliandra is a low growing plant, prostrate toward upper elevation, and at lower elevation grows erect and bushy.
This is sometimes called the “pesticide treadmill”: a term coined by Robert van den Bosch to describe a self-reinforcing over-dependence on agrochemicals and inimical to natural biological controls.
A few of these collections are supplied from the production beds at Wakehurst Place with some being made available from the suitable collections seed bank at the MSBP.
The plant has a deep taproot, so it needs to have the deepest-possible pot if grown in a container and should not be waterlogged.
Dixon examined the morphology of the Ficus leucotricha and Ficus platypoda complexes and divided them into: Ficus atricha, Ficus brachypoda, Ficus cerasicarpa, Ficus platypoda.
Occurrence Heterogenite is formed by the oxidation of cobalt-sulfides and accumulated as residual deposits during a Pliocene weathering event.
However, when the stems or leaves are broken, a poisonous milky sap exudes which can cause eye injury.
Introduction to sea-buckthorn, Ontario Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Rural Affairs, August, 2022 External links United States Department of Agriculture Seaberry Profile Plants for a Future Purdue University list of articles
Description The stem of Leptosyne gigantea is a trunk up to 1 metre (3+1⁄2 feet) tall, and 4–10 centimetres (1+1⁄2–4 inches) in diameter.
In New Zealand, it is prohibited from sale, propagation and distribution under the National Pest Plant Accord.
It is the winner of the Award of Garden Merit from the California Horticultural Society in 1965, and received a First Class Certificate from the Royal Horticultural Society in 1967.
He was especially known for research into biological pest control of Lepidoptera by Metarhizium but also Beauveria bassiana.
Sensitivity Pheromone traps are very sensitive, meaning they attract insects present at very low densities.
Wood Native Americans found Screwbean wood valuable for building, for making tools and weapons, and as firewood.
The genus Heteromeles as originally published by Max Joseph Roemer was monospecific, including Photinia arbutifolia Lindl.
Cooking pots, art objects, dishware, smoking pipes, and even musical instruments such as the ocarina can all be shaped from clay before being fired.
Great Garden Companions: A companion planting system for a beautiful, chemical-free vegetable garden.
The fruit is a rough follicle about 5–10 cm (2–4 in) long and filled with many flat oval seeds, each with silky hairs.
It is endemic to California, where it occurs in the coniferous forests of the Central Coast Ranges around Monterey Bay.
Archaeologists usually undertake the task so that they can better understand how prehistoric stone tools were made.
Garrya wrightii is a species of flowering plant in the family Garryaceae known by the common names Wright's silktassel, quinine-bush, coffee berry, bearberry, feverbush, and grayleaf dogwood.
Because the torrefied straw pellets have superior structural, chemical and combustion properties to coal, they can replace all coal and turn a coal plant into an entirely biomass-fed power station.
Some species may feed extensively at ant swarms yet may not be obligate ant followers, regularly feeding away from the swarms as well.
Ribes echinellum is a shrub up to 150 cm (5 feet) tall with spines at the nodes (places where the leaves are attached to the stem).
CA State Board of Forestry and Fire Protection: "General Guidelines for Creating Defensible Space" SBCFD Homepage + Links 'Defending Your Home and Hazard Reduction' - Official Santa Barbara County Fire Department Website Santa Barbara County Fire Department: "Landscape 'Firescape' Checklist"
nilotica, the sporocarps occur in groups of four, and may consist of any combination of macrosporocarps and groups of microsporocarps (or massulae).
Distribution and habitat Asclepias eriocarpa is native to California and adjacent parts of Nevada and Baja California.
Lineated schist has a strong linear fabric in a rock which otherwise has well-developed schistosity.
Richard Bisgrove and Paul Hadley (2002), Gardening in the Global Greenhouse: The impacts of climate change on gardens in the UK, Oxford: UK Climate Impacts Programme.
Curio 'Trident Blue', known commonly as Senecio 'Trident Blue', Trident Blue Chalk and Kleinia 'Trident Blue', is a spear-shaped succulent plant that is a hybrid of Curio repens and Curio talinoides.
Description Eleocharis macrostachya is a rhizomatous perennial with bright green erect stems and straw-colored basal leaves, typically reaching heights between one half and one meter.
Ecology Pollination ecologists have reported the plant important as a honey plant for attracting large numbers of native bees.
Uses Rosa nutkana is used medicinally by a great number of indigenous peoples to treat a wide variety of ailments, and also ceremonially, in handcrafts, and as a food source.
It grows on rocky soils deficient in nutrients, cliffs and steep mountains, where it grows in full sun or partial shade.
Description Parry's grama is annual grass that grows 20–60 cm (7.9–23.6 in) tall, although sometimes to 80 cm (31 in).
Cultivation Cussonia paniculata is cultivated as an ornamental plant for planting in temperate climate gardens and in container gardens.
This extends from Santa Barbara County and the Channel Islands to San Diego County and extending into north-central Pacific coastal Baja California and its offshore islands such as Cedros Island.
Stubble-mulching refers to leaving the stubble or crop residue essentially in place on the land as a surface cover during a fallow period.
He encourages gardeners to be adaptable in their approach, according to local soil, conditions and crops grown.
Cultivation Sisyrinchium bellum prefers some moisture and good drainage, but will tolerate summer dryness.
"The Tribe Senecioneae (Compositae) in the Mascarene Islands with an Annotated World Check-List of the Genera of the Tribe: Notes on Compositae: VI".
Symphoricarpos mollis, with the common names creeping snowberry, Southern California snowberry, and trip vine, is a shrub in the honeysuckle family.
AREB1, AREB2, ABF3, and ABF1 have important roles in ABA signalling in the vegetative stage, as ABA controls the expression of genes associated with drought response and tolerance.
In very exposed positions at high altitude, it can assume a krummholz habit, growing low to the ground even when mature with a wide trunk.
Description Chrysolepis are evergreen trees and shrubs with simple, entire (untoothed) leaves with a dense layer of golden scales on the underside and a thinner layer on the upper side; the leaves persist for 3–4 years before falling.
Fremontodendron mexicanum is a rare species of shrub in the mallow family known by the common names Mexican flannelbush, Mexican fremontia, and Southern flannelbush, that is endemic to the central Peninsular Ranges in Mexico and the United States.
Fluid/vapor extraction systems depress the water table and water flows faster to the extraction well.
The flowers have bright orange or sometimes yellow ray corollas, but in cultivated plants, the flowers may be white or a variety of other colors.
Berberis nervosa, commonly known as dwarf Oregon-grape, Cascade barberry, Cascade Oregon-grape, or dull Oregon-grape, is a North American flowering plant.
Cape ivy is a scrambling herb that can become an aggressive weed once established, making it an invasive species.
The upper surfaces are colored a darker green and are glossy, glabrous (without hair) and usually moderately cupped or sub-planar.
The availability of suitable soil and a building design appropriate for local climatic conditions are two factors that make its use favorable.
The leaves are arranged alternately, 0.5–15 cm (0.20–5.91 in) long, ovate to lanceolate in shape, entire; both evergreen and deciduous species occur.
Cultivation and use of the common osier was common in England in the 18th and 19th century, with osier beds lining many rivers and streams.
This is mixed with mucus as it passes through the gut, being used to plaster the tunnel walls, forming a lining.
Depending on the variety or landrace, the plant may be fairly upright, while other forms appear bushy with many unbranching stems.
Cultivation The sea marigold is cultivated as an ornamental plant, used as a flowering groundcover and container plant.
The leaves are prepared as a tea, though rarely, as a folk medicine for pain relief in the Pallars region in the mountains of northwestern Catalonia.
Applications in environmental studies Recent studies show the usefulness of Azolla pinnata in the remediation of environmental pollutants.
Description Eriogonum crocatum is a perennial shrub less than 0.5 metres (1.6 ft) high by 0.5–1 metre (1.6–3.3 ft) wide.
The support also ensures that appropriate species and provenance seeds are used for the projects location and habitat.
Humans and nature were considered separate entities, and humans would design for ways to overcome the ‘obstacle’ of nature.
However, live mulches also may need to be mechanically or chemically killed eventually to prevent competition with the main crop.
Many thousands of women and children in England (primarily in the Luton district of Bedfordshire), and large numbers in the United States (mostly Massachusetts), were employed in plaiting straw for making hats.
Mushroom compost may also contain pesticide residues, particularly organochlorides used against the fungus gnat.
Meat from sheep which have grazed on saltbush has surprisingly high levels of vitamin E, is leaner and more hydrated than regular lamb and has consumer appeal equal to grain-fed lamb.
The new flower stalks (inflorescences) are fed on by small mammals, javelina, deer, and feral pigs, which can end the flowering effort for that season.
Fenugreek is not safe for use during pregnancy, as it has possible abortifacient effects and may induce preterm uterine contractions.
Uses The berries (drupes) of this species can be used to make lemonade flavored drinks (hence its common name).
This subgenus includes several hundreds of species (from 100 up to 500) requiring further analysis of their authenticity.
Heart-leaf milkweed was also used as a contraceptive and snakebite remedy, though without proper preparation it can cause vomiting in low doses and death in higher doses due to a mix of cardenolides in the sap.
A carbon-to-nitrogen ratio (C/N ratio or C:N ratio) is a ratio of the mass of carbon to that of nitrogen in organic residues.
The stems are usually erect, prostrate or decumbent to ascending, and are stout and corymbed branched.
It has been also found that the plant's salt glands can also absorb small amounts of cadmium (Cd) and lead (Pb).
Distribution Parry's grama prefers rocky slopes or desert grasslands between 910 m (3,000 ft) and 1,700 m (5,500 ft), although it can grow anywhere between sealevel and 2,000 m (6,600 ft).
A commercial industry has been advanced by eco-friendly contractors, manufacturers of the mechanical presses, and by cultural acceptance of the method.
Their sheer height and density can deprive other plants of sunlight and the chemicals they produce when decaying reduce the germination of competing seeds.
Companion planting is thought by its practitioners to assist in the growth of one or both plants involved in the association.
Quite indifferent to the nature of the soil, it looks especially for the sun, its flower heads closing when it is in the shade or when the weather is overcast.
Taxonomy The plant has been considered to be a subspecies of Senecio oxyriifolius, although recent studies have shown that, whilst they are closely related, they are different enough to be disparate species.
References External links Garden Organic website Short DIVERSEEDS video on Garden Organic and the Heritage Seed Library Archived 3 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine
Like other related Castilleja plants, this species is a hemiparasite, deriving some of its nutrients directly from the roots of other plants by infiltrating them with haustoria.
speciosa needs to be mowed or cut back in June or July to assure that it will be regrowing rapidly when monarch reproduction reaches its peak.
Description It is a small to medium-size tree, reaching 8–10 metres (26–33 ft) tall and with a trunk diameter of up to 50 cm.
(2000), Manzanitas of California, Lawrence, Kansas: University of Kansas, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, ISBN 0-933994-22-2 Wells, Philip V.
The South Carolina populations were found in 1957 and 1981, and the first is protected at Steven's Creek Heritage Preserve.
The pointed oval or lance-shaped leaves are up to 2.5 centimetres (0.98 in) long, green, and sometimes hairy.
Taxonomy The World Checklist of Selected Plant Families, maintained by Kew Garden in London, accepts the following four species: Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin.
External links Calflora Database: Heuchera caespitosa (Urn-flowered alumroot) — formerly Heuchera elegans.
Very young animals survived, passing immunity to their offspring in due course and eventually producing a virus-resistant population.
Synthetic Rubber Plastics Plastic mulch used in large-scale commercial production is laid down with a tractor-drawn or standalone layer of plastic mulch.
Pityopsis ruthii is listed under the Endangered Species Act by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and only grows along The Hiwassee and Ocoee rivers in Polk County, Tennessee.
Taxonomically, it forms part of the Purpurascentes series of very closely related Aloe species, together with Aloe microstigma, Aloe gariepensis, Aloe khamiesensis and Aloe framesii.
nutkana, including 'Cantab' (Hurst 1939), 'Mander's Nutkana #1' (1983), 'Moore's Nutkana', and 'Schoener's Nutkana' (1930).
with many tropical crops), this is not always feasible: but various measures can be taken, including better timing, application and the use of less deleterious products such as biopesticides.
They implemented their mission by providing hands-on training, on-the-ground demonstration, outreach and technical assistance.
Sisyrinchium bellum grows as a perennial plant in open places where there is some moisture, particularly grassy areas, though it can also be found in woodlands and at altitudes up to 2,400 metres (7,900 ft).
Fremontodendron 'Ken Taylor' — golden flowers with a darker orange outside petals in the spring and summer, and grows to only 5 feet (1.5 m) in height by 8–10 feet (2.4–3.0 m) in width.
Cultivation and uses Depending on the species, marigold foliage has a musky, pungent scent, though some varieties have been bred to be scentless.
In a study published in 2008, Nina Rønsted and colleagues analysed the DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal internal and external transcribed spacers (ITS and ETS), and the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3pdh) region, in the first molecular analysis of the section Malvanthera.
The fruits, known locally as pitaya, olala (only in some parts of Bolivia) or Peruvian apple, are thornless and vary in skin colour from violet-red to yellow.
Causes and mitigation With an increasing population, world food production has been subject to intensification and since the 1950s, the use of chemical pesticides.
albifrons populations, and as such populations of the Mission blue butterfly have been negatively impacted.
Many species of birds nest and roost in the trees, and small mammals find shelter in thicketlike stands.
Landraces Garcia Bolita – A light-tan-to-brown bolita from Garcia, Colorado, with a climbing "pole" habit.
Young branches are coated in stiff hairs, and older branches have reddish, yellowish, or gray shredding bark.
In the United Kingdom, according to Tara Garnett of the Food Climate Research Network, food contributes 19% of the country's greenhouse gas emissions.
They can be obtained either whole or ground, with the ground product (sold as "kutjera powder") easily added to bread mixes, salads, sauces, cheese dishes, chutneys, stews or mixed into butter.
Radionuclides: Broadley and Willey find that across 30 taxa studied, Gramineae and Chenopodiaceae show the strongest correlation between Rb (K) and Cs concentration.
Plants low to the ground or freshly planted are the most susceptible, and phytotoxicity from the produced chemicals may prevent germination of some seeds.
Lavandula angustifolia is included in the Tasmanian Fire Service's list of low flammability plants, indicating that it is suitable for growing within a building protection zone.
The various shapes and sizes of the stones used to build these walls look like stones that were found in the area lying on the ground or in the soil.
In general it is a perennial herb growing from a woody caudex and rhizome, its stem reaching about 60 centimeters in maximum height.
The charity adopted the working name "Garden Organic" in 2005 and is now the UK's leading organic growing charity.
This species requires more shade than the others of the family, as it is found near cliffs in the wild.
Spanish explorers in California called the plant romero, the Spanish term for rosemary, and that common name is still sometimes used in Mexico.
Due to antibacterial thiophenes exuded by the roots, Tagetes should not be planted near any legume crop.
Vaccinium parvifolium, the red huckleberry, is a species of Vaccinium native to western North America.
Distribution This grass is fairly widespread and can be found across the western two thirds of the United States, much of southern Canada and parts of northern Mexico.
Used as a staple food for centuries by desert dwellers, this high protein meal contains good quantities of calcium, magnesium, potassium, iron and zinc, and is rich in the amino acid lysine as well.
It is native to coastal northern California and Oregon, where it grows in chaparral, woodland, and coastal bluffs and grassland.
The mite is now established throughout New Zealand, despite predation by Stethorus bifidus and Phytoseiulus persimilis, the latter of which was deliberately introduced to counter mite pests.
Due to urbanization and increased transportation, neighboring rural landscapes and even remote villages have been delegated to functional urban regions (FURs) and are slowly losing their cultural and heritage value.
Despite its diversity, it is quite stable as a species, but hybrids may be discovered with other species of Dudleya, which can make it difficult to discern in areas where numerous species converge.
flumineus is said to need no stratification in order to germinate, while stored seed germination is aided by physical scarification or a hot-water treatment typical of many other leguminous plants.
Several species of entomopathogenic nematode are important predators of insect and other invertebrate pests.
The term includes such items as grass cuttings, dry leaves, twigs, hay, paper, sawdust, corn cobs, used livestock bedding, manure, animal waste, cardboard, pine needles or cones, etc.
See also Flora of the California chaparral and woodlands List of California native plants References External links Calflora Database: Leptosiphon androsaceus Jepson Manual eFlora (TJM2) treatment of Leptosiphon androsaceus UC CalPhotos gallery: Leptosiphon androsaceus
Early Chinese records mention that soybeans were a gift from the region of the Yangtze River delta and Southeast China.
Sercel notes that the way the Xenomorph grasps a human's face to implant its embryo is comparable to the way a parasitoid wasp lays its eggs in a living host.
It is distributed on the coasts of: Southern California and the Channel Islands; the Central Coast region; San Francisco Bay Area; and in Mexico on the northwestern Baja California Peninsula and Guadalupe Island.
Taxonomy The genera Photinia, Aronia, Pourthiaea, and Stranvaesia have historically been variously combined by different taxonomists.
Over 95% of food waste ends up at landfills where it produces methane, carbon dioxide, and other greenhouse gases through anaerobic digestion.
The plant reproduces vegetatively when branches break off the main axis, or sexually when sporocarps on the leaves release spores.
Aristolochia macrophylla, Dutchman's pipe or pipevine, is a perennial vine native to the eastern United States.
rigens This variety is distinguished by its large 4- to 8-cm flower heads with yellow or orange rays, each with a basal eye-spot.
Efforts to restore falling monarch butterfly populations by establishing butterfly gardens and monarch migratory "waystations" require particular attention to the target species' food preferences and population cycles, as well to the conditions needed to propagate and maintain their food plants.
Aleutite is both a vanadate and arsenate mineral but it can also be considered as a natural salt-inclusion phase.
Common characters include having rather small drooping flowers, with small petals and a very prominent disk which usually consists of separate segments, while the seeds are cylindrical rather than ovoid.
Heuchera maxima is a species of flowering plant in the saxifrage family, known by the common names island alum root, Channel Islands coral bells, and Jill of the rocks.
References External links Media related to Castilleja exserta at Wikimedia Commons Closeup photos — at Henry Coe State Park, S.F.
These dense compounds, such as trichloroethylene (TCE), sink in groundwater because they have a higher density than water.
Gomphocarpus physocarpus is a food of the caterpillars of Danaus butterflies, including the African monarch butterfly (Danaus chrysippus orientis).
Augustin Pyramus de Candolle moved it to Opuntia in 1828 and Joseph Paxton published it in Echinocactus in 1840.
The genus Artemisia is widespread in the Old and New Worlds, and many species have been utilized for hundreds of years in Europe, Asia, and the Americas in horticulture, cooking, and medicine.
Some plants are avoided by some beekeepers (and sought out by others) due to substances found in the nectar.
When the soil excavated in preparation for a foundation can be used, the cost and energy consumption of transportation are minimal, but this requires testing of materials for suitability.
Description Taxonomically moth bean belongs to the family Fabaceae (subfamily Papilionoideae), and genus Vigna.
Varieties Between 1945 and 1991, Soviet and German horticulturists developed new varieties with greater nutritional value, larger berries, different ripening months and branches that are easier to harvest.
The majority of species are shrubs from 0.5–5 m (1.6–16.4 ft) tall, varying from ground-hugging prostrate plants to erect shrubs; a few, notably C.
The fruit is a red-orange berry about a centimeter (0.4 inch) long, is covered densely in glandular bristles.
The plant is native and endemic to a limited area of the Sikhote-Alin mountains in Primorskiy Krai in the Russian Far East.
Edmonton EcoPark is a waste-to-energy plant which burns waste from several London boroughs to provide electricity for the National Grid.
Linanthus androsaceus) is a species of flowering plant in the phlox family known by the common name of false babystars.
Soil moisture measurement—measuring the water content of the soil, as can be expressed in terms of volume or weight—can be based on in situ probes (e.g., capacitance probes, neutron probes), or remote sensing methods.
Description Festuca rubra is perennial and has sub-species that have rhizomes and/or form bunchgrass tufts.
Related techniques Related to biological pest control is the technique of introducing sterile individuals into the native population of some organism.
Arctostaphylos species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including Coleophora arctostaphyli (which feeds exclusively on A.uva-ursi) and Coleophora glaucella.
In agriculture, cover crops are plants that are planted to cover the soil rather than for the purpose of being harvested.
Its seed has been found among apparent evidence of cereal preparation and cooking at Late Iron Age villages in Britain.
At the top of each stem is a narrow, lance-shaped or cylindrical inflorescence, featuring a single spike ranging from 5 to 40 mm long.
Some clay minerals (such as smectite) are described as swelling clay minerals, because they have a great capacity to take up water, and they increase greatly in volume when they do so.
However, research has shown that the moth bean contains considerably less of these factors compared with other legume grains, making it a more beneficial choice for consumption.
Senecio crassissimus, the propeller plant, vertical leaf or lavender steps, is a succulent species of flowering plant in the daisy family Asteraceae, and is endemic to the island of Madagascar off the east coast of Africa.
References External links Jepson Manual Treatment: Eleocharis macrostachya USDA Plants Profile — Eleocharis macrostachya (pale spikerush) Eleocharis macrostachya — U.C.
Distribution and habitat The four accepted species are found in Andean northern Chile in Antofagasta Region, Tarapacá Region, Arica y Parinacota Region, Atacama Region and Coquimbo Region.
When so used, preparations of flowers and fruits (called marijuana) and leaves and preparations derived from resinous extract (e.g., hashish) are consumed by smoking, vaporising, and oral ingestion.
Occurrence Dorrite can be found in mineral reactions that relate dorrite + magnetite + clinopyroxene, rhönite + magnetite + olivine + clinopyroxene, and aenigmatite + pyroxene + olivine assemblages in nature.
Abronia fragrans, the sweet sand-verbena, snowball sand-verbena, prairie snowball or fragrant verbena, is a species of sand verbena.
The shallow root structure also means that it is poorly adapted to areas with hot summers, such as the southern half of the United States.
If the blocks are stabilized with a chemical binder such as Portland cement they are called compressed stabilized earth block (CSEB) or stabilized earth block (SEB).
Cultivation Eriogonum crocatum has entered limited cultivation in native plant gardens and xeriscaping.
A majority of perennial and annual species from the American continent described by Watson were referred to Lupinus.
Instruments Examples of devices that can be used to measure this ratio are the CHN analyzer and the continuous-flow isotope ratio mass spectrometer (CF-IRMS).
Soil media erosion and poor plant establishment are the most common problems and can occur on any angle of sloped roof if not designed properly.
grandis can be found in California and westernmost Nevada, south of 40° 30' N latitude in the Sierra Nevada and San Bernardino Mountains.
Distribution This grass is native to Oregon and California, where it grows in many types of habitat, from mountain forests to open grassland at sea level.
Taxonomy and etymology The plant was originally described by Carl Linnaeus on page 280 of the Mantissa Plantarum Altera, October 1771.
It was the first magnolia to be scientifically described under modern rules of botanical nomenclature, and is the type species of the genus Magnolia; as Magnolia is also the type genus of all flowering plants (magnoliophytes), this species in a sense typifies all flowering plants.
Cultivation The species is cultivated in the specialty horticulture trade with limited availability as an ornamental plant: for natural landscaping, native plant, and habitat gardens; wildlife gardens; and restoration projects.
It was discovered by Alfred Lau in 1972 in the states of Chihuahua and Sonora, at an altitude of 1,460 m (4,800 ft).
In temperate regions this plant is usually grown as a half-hardy annual, though it can tolerate light frosts.
It often hybridizes with Leymus triticoides, producing the common hybrid grass Leymus x multiflorus.
The 2011 introduced a "Ladies Day" which encouraged women to dress stylishly and socialise at a fashion show and dinner from Fortnum & Mason.
He has worked on many major events, and was Head Florist for the wedding of the Danish Crown Prince in 2004.
The Resurrection men were arrested, and by an extraordinary arrangement, the police opened the premises for viewing, charging 5 shillings.
Her last book, Table Settings, Entertaining & Etiquette, was published simultaneously in the US (by Viking) and in the UK (by Thames & Hudson).
He served the National Botanic Gardens of India until January 1959 when his son, Alick Percy-Lancaster pressed him to join the family at Salisbury (Southern Rhodesia), taking with him the family's Alipore Canna Collection for enjoyment in retirement.
The Tulip Time Festival in Holland, Michigan is held in early May and is the largest tulip festival in the United States, boasting over 4.5 million tulips and drawing over 600,000 visitors each year.
Each year in March the SAF [political action committee] arranges for members come to Washington, U.S.
At the same time, Tatsuki is interested in her, and repeatedly makes that apparent, though she has constantly refused his advances, not that it stops him.
Amateur rosarians formed local rose societies, such as Portland (Oregon) in 1889, and Tacoma (Washington State) and Syracuse (New York State) in 1911.
This later led him to found a further new religion to spread the teachings he received on establishing paradise on earth and creating a new civilisation.
Though considered the frontrunner in the contest, she was defeated in an upset by Rita Johnston, a Vander Zalm loyalist.
The nursery's most successful rose cultivars include: ''Albéric Barbier' (1900), 'Paul Transon' (1901), 'Alexandre Girault' (1909), and 'Albertine'(1921).
In 2004, he was the Head Florist for the Royal Wedding of the Danish Crown Prince in Copenhagen Cathedral.
The farms and festival were founded by Dutch immigrants Cees and Johanna Tesselaar when they arrived in 1939.
He was unhappy with his work and met a florist; he found enjoyment in assisting the florist at weekends and on his holidays.
He is under pressure from his father and his two older brothers to live up to the noble Ichijoji family name.
This idea had never entered her head, as she had no stock on hand, but she was quick to grasp the opportunity and in a few weeks, had taken order for US$600 worth of tubers which she had to buy to fill.
Stutzman, however, responded that she would not comply, with her counsel citing the state's constitution in regard to "freedom of conscience in all matters of religious sentiment".
See also Gardening in Australia References External links Melbourne International Garden and Flower Show Florist Melbourne - Bud Flowers Pash Flowers: Online Flowers & Same-Day Delivery
The primary stem is placed vertically, while the secondary stem is tilted 45 degrees and scattered over a 30-degree area to the front and left.
History The history of chabana follows hand-in-hand with the history of chadō, and within that historical milieu, chabana emerged in tandem with the rise of wabi-cha around the Momoyama period.
Arrangements were often light and airy, and stressed the individual beauty of each flower itself, rather than the entire arrangement.
Appearance The normal appearance of the heraldic rose is a five-petaled rose, mimicking the look of a wild rose on a hedgerow.
And she was the one who put me in business." In 1980, the Fund for Park Avenue, took over responsibility for the maintenance and funding of Park Avenue's landscaping.
The new building, designed by architecture firm Fox & Fox, included amenities such as modern refrigeration and improved elevators and loading areas to facilitate efficient transport of flowers.
As he started to recover, he told his close followers that he had received a miraculous blessing from God and had been born again as a Messiah.
In 2019, the export value of cut flowers was €4,200 million from the EU, Colombia exports were €1,235 million, Ecuador exports were €721 million, Kenya exports were €487 million and Ethiopia exports were €180 million, while US exports were only €14 million compared to €1,052 million in imports.
The building was constructed in 1927 to serve as a central market for several of Chicago's largest florists.
New Covent Garden Market in Nine Elms, London, is the largest wholesale fruit, vegetable and flower market in the United Kingdom.
Bulgaria The emblem is both: used by the Bulgarian Social Democratic Party (BSDP) in the same version as the SI, to which the party is not affiliated, and featured in a redrawn version on the logo of the Party of Bulgarian Social Democrats (PBSD), which is a member of the SI.
It covers a site of 57 acres (23 ha) and is home to about 200 fruit, vegetable and flower companies.
In 1847, Jules Lachaume wrote a book on flowers covering a wide variety of topics relating to floristry.
In 2019 the non-profit Mount Vernon Place Conservancy, which manages the Washington Monument and surrounding parks squares of Mount Vernon Place, took over the management of the event.
This also provided the opportunity for Covent Garden and Spitalfields traders to sell their stock left over from Saturday.
Combs, the clock was constructed as a joint project between the state government and the Garden Club of Kentucky.
History IGP was founded in 1999 and acquired by Indian entrepreneur and investor Tarun Joshi in 2012.
On March 27, 2015, Judge Ekstrom ordered Stutzman to pay a $1,000 fine and $1 for court costs and fees.
The company is led by Yann Callaert, who serves as Chief Executive Officer, and his daughter Nele Ost, who is Creative Director.
More than simply putting flowers in a container, ikebana is a disciplined art form in which nature and humanity are brought together.
Gaz was hit over the head by one of the gang, eventually revealed to be Anita, although Lauren believed the culprit was Ricky.
In 2013, the Foundation donated one million dollars to the CSin3 Program, which was developed to allow farm-worker children to attend college and obtain a degree in computer science.
Spiritual awakening He was initially a follower of the Shinto offshoot Oomoto, a new religion that taught that the much anticipated Age of Light was approaching, where he became popular as a spiritual healer who practiced chinkon kishin.
Later, telegrams were sent from member to member requesting deliveries to be made in the recipient florists area.
It most commonly has yellow seeds in the center and five green barbs as backing; such a rose is blazoned as barbed and seeded proper.
As a student, she became a member of Zagreb's horticultural society, where she took gardening classes.
Psychiatric hospital and art When Bataille was around 40 years old, she is said to have started exhibiting signs of a mental disturbance.
In mid-October 1918 she contracted a flu that evolved into pneumonia as a result of the epidemic spreading across Europe though she managed to recover unlike others who succumbed to the outbreak.
Cottages (probably evolving from sheds, serving the gardens), came to be built here, but were undesirable as they remained below ground level, and so were prone to flooding.
In a joint statement before publication, they called the book "a cold and overt betrayal." Media career Burrell has appeared multiple times on the reality programme I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!, first on the fourth series in November 2004, placing second after 18 Days on the show.
The festival has been celebrated for almost fifty years, and the first edition was celebrated in 1969.
The Durham Flower Festival is an annual flower and horticulture show run by, and held at, East Durham College's Houghall Campus in Durham, County Durham, England.
He had intended to line the Abbey with trees in blossom but since the season was not favourable, he switched to field maples.
Connolly has written five books on flowers: Table Flowers (1996), Shane Connolly Wedding Flowers (1998), The Language of Flowers (2003), A Year in Flowers (2012) and Rediscovering the Meaning of Flowers (2017).
The series was screened in 1987, when he was 68, and its popularity spawned three other BBC series — The Victorian Kitchen, The Victorian Flower Garden and The Wartime Kitchen and Garden.
After a series of scandals and discontent within caucus led to Vander Zalm's resignation in 1991, McCarthy entered the 1991 leadership election to succeed him.
Gallery References External links Southport Flower Show official website Media related to Southport Flower Show at Wikimedia Commons
The origin of this art form has been traced to 16th century Japan, but it is now practiced worldwide.
Subsequently, in May 2023, the company entered into a collaboration with Bollywood actress Kajol for Mother's Day.
Only months later, Australian Labor Party (ALP) cabinet minister Carrol Bramich defected from the ALP to the Liberals, giving Jackson and Liberals a 16–14 majority in the House of Assembly.
During this period he built strong links with the gardening public, and carried out experimental breeding of ornamental flowers including tree dahlias and Watsonia plants.
Dickman and aimed to revolutionize the produce industry by delivering member networking and educational opportunities.
The tradition is believed to be very old, dating back to the first-century reign of Nongda Lairen Pakhangba , the first recorded king of Kangleipak.
Examples One of the most popular flower carpet events is the Flower Carpet biennial in Brussels in which volunteers from around Belgium convene at the Grand-Place/Grote Markt, the historic centre of the city, to weave a carpet-like tapestry out of colourful begonias or dahlias.
Between 1900 and 1930, René Barbier produced exceptional new rose cultivars, large-flowered rambling roses with strongly scented and beautifully shaped flowers.
With three categories, it is one of the largest events of its kind in the region by both scale and content.
She began studying floral design in 2014 at the Nobleman School of Floral Design in Singapore and officially transitioned into the field in November 2014.
Guidance from the Royal Horticultural Society was sought in 1954 when Mary Pope approached them for advice and help as there was a need to co-ordinate the many flower clubs being formed.
Two notable finds were the “Elegant Gallica”, previously thought to be extinct in cultivation, and the “Lafayette”, which Bell speculated was named in honor of the Marquis de Lafayette to commemorate his 1825 visit to Wyck.
Rare flowers became common, such as these local flowers from the Western Cape seen at a flower show in Clanwilliam, South Africa.
Saho Kenbuchi An athletic girl who is best friends with Mei, and who constantly beats up on Tatsuki to deter his advances on her (Mei).
Through the career she decorated Constantine Palace, Mikhailovsky Palace, Tavrichesky Palace, the Vladimir Palace, Nicholas Palace, Yusupov Palace and the Pavilion of Roses in Pavlovsk Park.
Dendrobium chrysanthum (Meitei: khongul melei) - sharing personal history before starting a relationship.
Wyck Rose Garden Haines designed the rose garden at Wyck in 1821, on the site of an 18th-century kitchen garden maintained by her mother-in-law Hannah (Marshall) Haines (1765–1828).
He has also been featured in numerous magazines like Elle, Vogue, Architectural Digest and Bloomberg, regarding floral design and garden architecture.
The Dogwood Arts Festival is a yearly arts festival in Knoxville, Tennessee, that was started in 1960.
The Harmonie Centre, also known as the Breitmeyer–Tobin Building, is an eight-story commercial building located at 1308 Broadway Street (at the corner of Broadway and Gratiot) in Downtown Detroit.
Barbier developed this new rose variety by crossing Rosa 'lucieae', (a vigorous, trailing species from Japan known for its thick purplish-red canes and glossy, dark green, foliage), and hybrid tea roses.
These shows were attended by thousands of florists and students over the years, raising standards and pushing back the boundaries of commercial floral design.
The festival begins on Wednesday for the locals and continues through Saturday drawing over 150,000 people.
A development of flower park is initiated by KFC, expanding over 35 hectare is discussed located in 30 kilometers' radius from Kigali, Rwanda's capital.
A bough pot is a vessel for holding stems of flowers and branches to decorate an interior, especially a fireplace during summer.
It was formerly known as the Marché aux fleurs et aux oiseaux Cité but was renamed for Queen Elizabeth II after a state visit in 2014.
Similar to a wedding bouquet, in the 16th century, boutonnières were used to ward off bad luck and evil spirits.
The three weekend festival includes daffodils and tulips, garden tours, performances, and activities.
Nichlas Sorren Osman Vilsmark (born 24 July 1973) is a Danish florist and teacher, living and working in London, United Kingdom.
She owned and managed a dahlia nursery farm which produced and shipped the dahlia tubers to practically every region where these flowers were cultivated and admired.
Born with the name Surayi Pendidikan, Roosilawaty adopted her stage name when she started her career as a singer and dancer.
Upon settlement, the decision would bring a $2,000 fine under the Washington Consumer Protection Act, a $1 payment for costs, and agreement not to discriminate in the future.
Bergmann teaches at their floristry school in Omotesando, runs a design consultancy Nicolai Bergmann Flowers & Design, and operates a flower themed Nomu Café.
The cypress that daily shades the grave, Is sorrow that moans her bitter lot, And faith that a thousand ills can brave, Speaks in thy blue leaves "forget-me-not".
Charlotta Christina Boberg (1816-1898), was a Swedish businesswoman who sold fruit and flowers as a månglare.
A few days later, Cave captured 13 wickets in one day, taking 7 for 31 and 6 for 33 in Central Districts' innings victory over Auckland in Palmerston North.
In June 2008, Bloomex issued a press release admitting that the company had made mistakes in the past due to unexpectedly strong sales growth, and announced new systems to improve customer satisfaction.
Biography Having worked in the floral industry for over 40 years, she has represented the UK in various floral competitions, gaining her American Institute of Floral Designers qualification and also taking part in many Chelsea Flower Shows.
Today, the general public shops throughout the area for its flowers and floral supply products alongside the retail florists and wedding and event planners.
Besides her interest in gardening, Agnes was also an active member of the Armenian Church and a skilled embroiderer.
'Polarstern', 'Super Star' or 'Fragrant Cloud', earning many rose awards - 'Fragrant Cloud' was awarded the title World's Favorite Rose in 1981.
Georgian arrangements (1714–1760) The designs in this period were formal and symmetrical and often tightly arranged with a variety of flowers.
Commissioned salesmen were first approved in 1958, allowing salesmen and wholesale companies to sell the product instead of than the growers themselves to attend their booths.
The bucket is only temporarily borrowed, and an inventory of quantities delivered to each shop is kept.
Potted flowering plants This group of flowering plants add beauty and tradition to holidays - poinsettias at Christmas, Easter lilies, potted roses for Mothers' Day, etc.
Ancient Greece The ancient Greeks, on the other hand, with their appreciation for aesthetics, celebrated flowers through art and architecture, immortalizing their beauty in mosaics, friezes, and vase paintings, where flowers were closely associated with joy and the pleasures of life.
For example, oak leaves symbolized wisdom, and were associated with Zeus, who according to Greek mythology made his decisions while resting in an oak grove.
A Dutch flower bucket is the most common container employed in the European floral industry to transport flowers.
Between this market and the flower market in Tenancingo, State of Mexico, a 2007 study identified 131 species from 93 genera and 42 families, with orchidaceae best represented.
It can, and is often, made up of many kind of flowers and is enhanced with Baby's Breath and different types of greenery, such as ivy.
History The art of creating feather flowers was mentioned as early as 1873 in a book called Art Recreations published by Shepard and Gill in Boston.
Okada was a strong proponent of culture, religion and art from around the world and read the Bible and Quran.
In April 2010, the American Institute of Floral Designers Association granted him a lifetime membership for his years of service to it.
Rosemary "Rosie" Hughes, NDSF, AIFD, GCGI, was the royal florist of Queen Elizabeth II, based in Hamilton, Leicester.
Store Located on Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré, Lachaume continues to sell a variety of flowers and bouquets, dried flowers, dried wheat bouquets, and eternal flowers.
He operated a commercial rose nursery in Scappoose, Oregon and published articles and books on rose production and cultivation.
In the long list of the prizes and honours the most notable were Dahlias (230), Gladioli (650), Canna (270), Petunien (400), Geraniums (630), Verbenen (850) and Phlox (500), appearing in Canada, USA, London, Paris, Brussels, Petersburg, Moscow, Hamburg, Dortmund, Bonn, and others.
Paraguay In Paraguay, the Revolutionary Febrerista Party (PRF) uses the logo of the SI, although turned to a right hand directed left.
Their use of "coyly self-descriptive telephone numbers" is part of founder James McCann's business model.
They have existed in some form since at least medieval times, when they were carried or worn around the head or bodice.
He was commissioned by the Royal Family to produce arrangements for the 2005 wedding of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles, the 2011 wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton and the 2023 coronation of Charles III and Camilla.
At that time the paths were still covered with tan from Eagle's old tannery."The Wyck rose garden was surveyed in 1976 by the late rosarian Leonie Bell, who identified dozens of varieties of antique roses at the site.
The word ganutell is derived from the Italian cannotiglio and in fact this craft, which can also be considered to be an art, was "imported" to Malta during the eighteenth century from mainland Europe.
This craft had its ups and downs and by the mid-twentieth century a considerable section of the Maltese population hardly knew of the existence of ganutell and only a few had mastered the various techniques of ganutell.
ernesti-augusti (fishtail palm) which has a good market in Europe, had been over-collected in the forests of Guatemala and Mexico and xateros from Guatemala crossed the Belizean border to cut the leaf.
Some sources identify the University of Missouri, Southwestern University, and Baylor University as the first universities to host homecoming festivities.
The UK's largest and longest running independent flower show, each year it attracts many celebrities from all over the world, from television and film to music and sport.
Biography Connolly was born in May 1963 in west Belfast; his father was a dentist and his mother a social worker.
All of the flowers used in the clock face are grown in greenhouses near the capitol and owned by the state.
Following Stutzman's response, Benton County Superior Court Judge Alexander Ekstrom ruled on January 7, 2015 that she could be sued in her personal capacity.
The House of Tudor that came to power at the end of the wars used a combination of their two roses: the ten-petaled Tudor double rose.
Many plant species are capable of retaining their general shape and coloration when left to dry naturally in ambient conditions.
To use wax to manufacture flowers was a new popular novelty, and Ramstedt was considered to master this new form of art to perfection and make the flowers appear unusually life like.
Pella, Iowa's Tulip Time festival, also celebrated in early May, began in 1935 in celebration of the town's heritage.
Characters Takaaki Asakura aka "Taiyou" (Japanese for 'sun') Taiyou is a cheerful boy who transfers into the all-male Kazami Dormitory of Seifu Private School after his parents move away to Naha, Okinawa for a job posting.
Examples of deeper meanings lie within the language of flowers, and how a rose may have a different meaning in arrangements.
Jackson attended The Hutchins School in Hobart, returning to Dover where he became a fruit and vegetable grower.
During the first half of the 20th century the New England region rose to prominence as a cut flower producer, cultivating many varieties of hybrid roses and carnations in greenhouses.
He also credited anonymous Chinese gardeners with the creation of the double-flowered reblooming China and Tea roses introduced into European gardens and hybridizing programs, in contrast to the prevailing belief that these roses were discovered growing wild in China by European explorers.
Construction began in 1971 south of the Thames in Battersea, on the site of the former Nine Elms Locomotive Works and Nine Elms railway station and Nine Elms loco shed, which closed on 9 July 1967 at the end of steam on the SR.
In 2015, the company acquired ArtisanGilt, an e-commerce portal for ethnic wear and fashion jewellery.
United States The tulip-festivals are being held in honour of the Dutch-American immigrants who brought the (then highly expensive) tulips to the Americas.
After returning to Finland, she founded Finland's first artificial flower factory, next to her apartment at Pieni Roobertinkatu 4-6.
Pliny notes that the statue of Marsyas was a meeting place for courtesans, who used to crown it with chaplets of flowers.
The 1967 edition of his Better Roses prints a list of eighty "highly prized cultivars" from Australia and New Zealand.
In 1941 the market became wholesale only with admission by badge at the petition of group of local florists.
While worn frequently in the past, boutonnières are now usually reserved for special occasions for which formal wear is standard, such as at proms and weddings.
At the 1959 state election, Jackson again failed to gain a majority for the Liberals, with Labor governing in minority with the support of independents.
At his peak, his was a household name in American billiards; The New York Times ranked Spinks as one of "the most brilliant players among the veterans of the game", and he still holds the world record for points scored in a row (1,010) using a particular shot type.
He was a successful exhibitor at the Royal Horticultural Society's shows, and in 1956 he joined the fruit and vegetable committee and served as a judge at its shows for nearly 50 years.
"Happy" Chandler, was particularly critical, declaring "It's amazing what some people will think of when they have nothing better to do." In a subsequent gubernatorial campaign, Chandler mocked the clock, declaring "Well, they don't say it's half past 2 in Frankfort anymore.
·2002- Participated in Butoh dancer Richard Hart's performance "2 New Dance Pieces" at Guren Theater, producing stage sets.
The language was meant to convey emotion and communicate directly to the recipient or viewer without needing the use of words.
However, if Tracy harbours any hopes for a full reunion with Robert, it won't be easy for her as he is still married to his second wife – something he has neglected to tell her.
In the case of Ecuador, the limitations have been a little more marked by the current pandemic, however, Erika Mejía continues to contribute to the economy of that country with contributions to flower growers and betting on the Ecuadorian industry.
Ricky, however, decided to wait, and was jealous when Anita decided that she wanted to lose her virginity to Dave Colburn (Elliot James Langridge).
The failure of this employment agency, the work that bankruptcy generated for her, and the multiple jobs she had to do to raise the capital that would allow her to start a new agency a few years later, are some of the events that Mejía recalls as triggers for creating a new company.
'Flaming Ruby', a dark red floribunda which replaced the notorious 'Nigger Boy' in 1963; no longer commercially available.
The legal group representing Stutzman, Alliance Defending Freedom, countered the settlement offer, stating she should not be required to violate her religious beliefs.
In addition to the ongoing production of fresh-cut floral displays for the White House, the chief floral designer oversees the annual holiday decoration of the house.
The show was cancelled during the Second World War, as the land was required by the War Office for an anti-aircraft site.
Rosen Tantau (also RosenWelt Tantau) is a rose breeding company located at Uetersen, in the District of Pinneberg in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.
Background and Royal Household career Burrell was born and raised in Grassmoor, Derbyshire, a coal-mining village.
In the 18th century, arrangements were used to decorate the houses of the wealthy families and the aristocracy." Flower symbolism is common in many cultures and can be complex.
The American Institute of Floral Designers (AIFD), established in 1965, is a non-profit organization dedicated to recognizing and promoting the art of floral design as a professional career.
With his wife, Friederike, née Schickler (married 12 July 1849, died 27 December 1892), he extended the nursery around the vegetable and flower seed trades.
As a motif, Lan's basket is popular in decorations for the Chinese New Year, and represents riches and abundance Lan's flower basket, along with the emblems of the rest of the Eight Immortals, appear in such places as on a Qing dynasty 19th century imperial dragon robe.
Anarchism Black Rose Books is the name of the Montreal anarchist publisher and small press imprint headed by the libertarian-municipalist and anarchist Dimitrios Roussopoulos.
1900s: World-class competitor Spinks was still considered a newsworthy contender over a decade later, for the World 18.2 Balkline Championship of 1909, being enumerated in "a fine list of entries" anticipated for the March event.
See also Ikebana Flower arrangement History of flower arrangement Korean culture Korean art Floristry References "Oriental Flower Arrangement" in three volumes and "Oriental Flower Arrangement 100" in four volumes by Im Wha-Kong, Seoul, 1995
Flowers The flowers commonly called black roses do not really exist in said color, instead they actually have a dark shade, such as the "Black Magic", "Barkarole", "Black Beauty" and "Baccara" varieties.
The building served as the nexus of Chicago's floral industry until the 1950s, when the industry largely left Chicago for warmer regions of the country.
This was one of the many accessories that a man could add to his clothing to make him stand out from the crowd, similar to picking a pair of well-polished shoes.
It has members from over 20 nations (as of 2010) including Japan, the United Kingdom, United States, France, Germany, Mexico, and Australia.
Other major markets include the fledgling Dubai Flower Centre and the Ota Flower Market in Tokyo, Japan.
Politics After being demobilised from the navy, Jackson was elected to the Tasmanian House of Assembly at the 1946 state election, running for the Liberal Party in the seat of Franklin.
His MA thesis, supervised by Ian McLaren and completed in 1969, was titled Planning, policy, and practice in Maori education, 1936–1968, and examined some of the reasons for the relative underachievement of Māori in education at that time as identified by the Hunn Report.
Attendees to the festival are able to see and purchase flowers of all kinds brought by growers and retailers from all over Puerto Rico.
Christian symbolism in the Advent wreath Advent wreaths are circular, representing God's infinite love, and are usually made of evergreen leaves, which "represent the hope of eternal life brought by Jesus Christ".
During his time with PMA Bryan Silbermann helped standardize PLU/UPC codes, spearheaded the Produce Traceability Initiative (PTI), began the import-export committee that became the International Trade Committee to Global Strategy and Development committees.
Chabana, however, refers specifically to the flower display in the room or space for chadō, and though it fundamentally is a form of ikebana, it comprises a genre unto its own.
Best Use of Horticulture Award - Garden that best incorporates plants incorporating color, texture, size and shape to enhance the garden's theme.
Korean flower arrangement is an indoor art, and most often uses simple Joseon dynasty whiteware to highlight Korean flowers and tree branches in elegant and unforced natural arrangements.
This had a number of advantages for candidates: Colleges were funded so courses were available and more affordable; college support for learning needs could be accessed; the standards and skills required became more transparent and accessible.
·2004- For the exhibition Kitaoji Rosanjin: Turn Your Eyes to Natural Beauty (at Ouka Shorin, Nagano), arranged withered butterbur leaves and Arashishi camellias in Rosanjin’s vessels.
References Debor, Jutta: Wilhelm Pfitzer : Erfolgreicher Züchter und Neuheitenverbreiter, in: Gärtnerbörse Gartenwelt 19(1990) Stipp, Georg: Wilhelm Pfitzer : Aus seinem Leben und Wirken, in: Gartenwelt 25 (1921) 1844-1944 : 100 Jahre Pfitzer.
Origins of Columbia Market Angela Burdett-Coutts established Columbia Market in 1869 as a covered food market with 400 stalls.
Casting In April 2009 a new character called Ricky was announced and fifteen-year-old actor Ashley Margolis would portray him in his first television role.
I presume it was about 1821 or '22, as that was the time that my parents removed to Wyck permanently, having previously only resided here in summer.
The water molecules are progressively absorbed into the small cells or pores of the molecular sieve.
Acquisitions In 1994, FTD was acquired by Perry Capital Corporation from the florists and converted into a for-profit corporation.
The nursery eventually also had 40 acres of land in Meurants Lane, Parklea; 10 acres in Greenwood Road, Kellyville; and 10 acres in Old Windsor Road, Parklea.
There are local garden festivals, regional garden festivals, national garden festivals and international garden festivals.
With flower and plant exports booming the industry desperately needed to expand to a new auction complex with ample space.
The attempts at saving flowering stock that was carried out directly against the law only met with limited success, and much stock was lost during that time.
The Shrewsbury Flower Show was an annual event held in mid-August over two days (in recent times the second Friday and Saturday of the month) at The Quarry, the main park in the town of Shrewsbury, the county town of Shropshire, England.
Freeze-dried flowers are fresh flowers that have been specially dried to preserve their natural shape and color.
The 1920s series of British Squibs films were constructed around the adventures of a London "flower girl" played by Betty Balfour.
Palms gathered by community forestry concessions in the Maya Biosphere Reserve in Northern Guatemala are certified as sustainably managed by the FSC.
These flowers were part of the cosmic dance that led to the creation of plants, animals, and human beings.
See also Madame Prévost References Clare Haru Crowston, Fabricating Women: The Seamstresses of Old Regime France, 1675–1791 Elizabeth Hyde, Cultivated Power: Flowers, Culture, and Politics in the Reign of Louis XIV
In the latter stage, the candidate prepares 5 floral designs, which are graded according to artistic and technical criteria specified in the AIFD Guide to Floral Design.
Their business struggled and that company was dissolved, with its assets going to investors James Poage and John Davis of Texas.
History The Breitmeyer–Tobin Building was built in 1906 for John Breitmeyer Sons, Florists, who were at the time the leading florists in Detroit.
The transparent top admits sunlight and prevents heat escape via convection that would otherwise occur, particularly at night.
An enraged Akbar immediately ordered Adham's execution by defenestration from the ramparts of the Agra Fort.
Protest communities The tree house has been central to various environmental protest communities around the world, in a technique, popularized, known as tree sitting.
Number mazes, in which a grid of numbers is navigated by traveling the number shown on the current square.
After the complex begun deteriorating, it was renovated in the 1960s, and reopened in 1966, featuring new swimming pools.
Multi-State mazes, in which the rules for navigation change depending on how the maze has been navigated.
Even so, it served the São Paulo population and travelers with their animals for decades, until, in 1872, the fountain was removed from Largo da Memória.
Examples See also Belvedere (structure) Eyecatchers Gazebo Aedicule, often not free-standing Baldachin (canopy) Ciborium (canopy) Cupola, on top of a dome References Literature Wolfgang Binder: Der Roma-Augustus Monopteros auf der Akropolis in Athen und sein typologischer Ort.
At the start of the game, the game master sets the number and length of wormhole chains, rivers (if any) and weapon-related parameters such as the number of arsenals and the starting size of a player's weapons kit.
A lawn jockey is a statue depicting a man in jockey clothes, intended to be placed in front yards as hitching posts, similar to those of footmen bearing lanterns near entrances and gnomes in gardens.
Castletown, Isle of Man: The Balley Cashtal Beg, a "town" of 70 doors installed throughout the main town, which represent homes for the Mooinjer veggey, as they are locally known.
Sculptural works of land art and larger site-specific outdoor installation art, especially in fragile natural habitats, use sculpture trails for low-impact accessibility.
By forming a reflected full circle, the bridge also symbolizes purity: the Chinese words for “full” and “circle” together translate to “perfection”.
Media reference Duck islands came to public prominence in the United Kingdom in May 2009, when a Member of Parliament claimed expenses to have one installed on his property.
Outdoor facilities Northside Swim Center was built around the pre-existing Northside Independent School District (NISD) Natatorium, which is an indoor facility, and opened in 2013.
Indicated by a pressure gauge on the pressure side of the filter reaching into the 'red line' area, the pool owner is alerted to the need to 'backwash' the unit.
These 'pressurization' problems are, of course, non-existent with naturally ventilated smokeproof enclosures.
Charles Daniel de Meuron who fought bravely with his soldiers at the crucial stage of the war was later elevated as a Major General and eventually as Lieutenant General of the British army, but he later returned to Switzerland.
The band of three soldiers was demolished on 23 August, and the monument's main element, the obelisk, was toppled on 25 August.
In the so-called mechanically ventilated smokeproof enclosures, the stairwell is positively pressurized relative to the rest of the building.
Clay pots are permeable for water and therefore water from inside the pot soil can evaporate through the walls out of the pot.
Gallery See also Arcade galleries in Brussels History of Brussels Culture of Belgium Belgium in the long nineteenth century References Citations Bibliography De Moncan, Patrice (1993).
The staircase is named after Vincent de Bueren, who defended Liège against an attack by the Duke of Burgundy, Charles the Bold in the 15th century.
Description The complex consists of five main terraces connected by flights of stairs and internal escalators.
On average in this study, infants learned to crawl and cruise before learning to ascend stairs independently.
When the challenge began the prize was originally $50,000 NZD, for which any participant was required to find two halves of a promissory note which had been hidden within 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) of the building.
Skelly is also popular year-round, and is occasionally used to celebrate other holidays such as Christmas by putting a giant Santa suit on him.
The Association says the Route connects "the East with West and North to South [and] is a symbol of German unity and common effort of the people of the old and new federal states for the protection of nature." Cobblestones still serve as pavement on many avenues in the former East German areas.
Like lava rock or ceramic briquettes, heat shields also vaporize the meat drippings and 'infuse' the meat with more flavor.
The Haga Tradgard gardens were indeed established and provided the royal household with many different local and exotic vegetables and fruits.
Some materials, such as PVC or fibreglass, use a cleat mounting system from behind to attach it to the building, or it may be bolted directly to the building without the use of support brackets.
Wellis swim spas feature advanced Scandinavian Insulation, efficient LED lighting, and a Smart Control System, allowing for remote adjustments.
Later, the very similar equestrian staircases were built as showpieces in palaces, for riders to climb to the upper floors on horseback.
The sabil was located at ground or street level (where it was accessible to passersby) while the kuttab was usually above it on the upper levels.
In a modular/panel system, geo-textile or rockwool plugs are pre-grown with plants 6-8 weeks prior to installation and then attached to the structure.
Gjirokastër Obelisk or Mëmëdheu ABC is an obelisk monument in Gjirokastër, Albania, and celebrates the Albanian language.
In English it means a decorative flower box or "planter", a receptacle (usually a ceramic pot or urn) or a stand upon which, or into which, plants (often in pots) may be placed, usually indoors.
Rills begin to form when the runoff shear stress, the ability of surface runoff to detach soil particles, overcomes the soil's shear strength, the ability of soil to resist force working parallel to the soil's surface.
End users of commercial barbecue grills include for-profit operations such as restaurants, caterers, food vendors and grilling operations at food fairs, golf tournaments and other charity events, as well as competition cookers.
The 9,800-acre (4,000 ha) estate, of which the park occupies 900 acres (360 ha), has long been one of the top British tourist attractions, and has motivated other large landowners to generate income from their heritage in response to rising maintenance costs.
Labirinto Della Masone (Mason Labyrinth), built by Franco Maria Ricci (1937–2020) after an idea of his friend the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges, was at one time the largest maze in the world.
A street market is held in the street and square near the loggia every Saturday morning, and it also serves as a backdrop for the annual Ħal Qormi Day.
It played a role in formal gardens (such as Persian gardens) and in palace architecture such as in the famous example of the Alhambra in Spain.
Flower boxes may also be used to line decks, patios, porches, steps, and sidewalks and they can even be hung from railings.
Film The Maze Television Scooby-Doo - numerous entries in the franchise (and its tie-in materials in other media) over its long history.
For a low-maintenance alternative to wood, the contemporary materials of vinyl, fiberglass, aluminum, and CPVC can be used.
Hammams (public bathhouses), inherited from the Roman thermae, continued to be an essential public facility in Islamic cities in addition to public fountains.
Built at the end of the colonial period, the square hosts the first, and therefore oldest, monument in São Paulo, the Piques Obelisk (Piques Pyramid), inaugurated in 1814.
Landscape curbing is made with various elements of concrete depending on the climate where it is being used.
On 18 July 2018, a 1.5-kilometer (0.93 mi) section of the highway was realigned just north of central Goshogawara as a measure to improve its level of safety and its access to the Tsugaru Expressway.
In addition, the works of Gertrude Jekyll, a British 20th-century garden designer and prolific writer, popularized the use of the herbaceous border through a revival of the British cottage garden.
Purpose Flowerpots have a number of uses such as transporting plants to new locations, starting seeds, patio and indoor cultivation of plants, and the growing of tender plants in colder regions indoors.
Automated electronic timing systems are wired to a large jumbotron-style screen to make timed results viewable during events.
In December 2022, the council notified the Buildings at Risk Register of their intention to remove vegetation from the structure and carry out some stabilisation work.
History The observation tower was built between 1888 and 1889 after Princess Stéphanie of Belgium, during a walk on the hill, expressed support for erecting a tower on the site as it was deemed suitable.
Nine stone jardinières which were originally sculptured on the staircase, but perished in time, were restored.
Route The Freihamer Allee starts at the Bodenseestraße (Bundesstraße 2) and goes under the railway line Munich-Herrsching, before passing through the Freiham estate.
This bracket improved electric fences by keeping the wire high enough above the ground and far enough away from the fence to permit grass and weeds growing beneath the wire to be mowed.
The Elm trees are of the Princeton variety, developed by Princeton Nurseries for its landscaping quality, and are resistant to Dutch elm disease, the only one of ten resistant cultivars to have trees that have reached maturity.
In 1784, Daniel Maseres, of England, invented a machine called a fire escape, which, being fastened to the window, would enable a person to descend to the street without injury.
A number of plants from the Palm House were therefore brought here for safekeeping, where space allowed.
In Washington, DC the avenues radiate from the centre running diagonally across the grid of streets, which follows typical French usage of the name (in France "boulevards" are often main roads running round the city centre).
In many American public areas, benches may be donated by persons or associations, as indicated by an affixed plaque, a common form of memorial to a deceased person (see memorial bench).
During this time, Dalkeith Hot Pool was used exclusively by the US Navy for rest and recuperation (R&R).
Garden gnomes spread to other countries in Europe in the 1840s and became particularly popular in France and Britain.
See also Baluster Guard rail Hanging strap Mobile safety steps Stanchion References External links The dictionary definition of handrail at Wiktionary Media related to Handrails at Wikimedia Commons
A mercury fountain is a fountain constructed for use with liquid metallic mercury ("quicksilver") rather than water.
School boards were established in Scotland under the Education (Scotland) Act 1872 to provide education to the general public.
Green water (free floating algae) means there are too many nutrients in the water, usually from rotting vegetation or too many fish for the space.
It will usually be relatively easy to find the way to the starting cell, but hard to find the way anywhere else.
The building is on the list of unsellable properties in the city of Karlovy Vary and was valued at 5.5 million CZK in a 1995 estimate.
Scandinavian grillhouses are usually built in octagonal or hexagonal shapes with glazed doors and large removable windows.
The world's first cornfield maize maze was a picture maze, portraying a Stegosaurus (it being the year that the film Jurassic Park was premiered).
In architecture, the term "garden room" may be used for a sunroom, conservatory, or any room with a good view of a garden, or even one decorated with a garden theme.
From the inside, the walls presented a tall face to patients, preventing them from escaping, while from outside they looked low so as not to suggest imprisonment.
See also Japan portal Roads portal References External links Media related to Category:Route 339 (Japan) at Wikimedia Commons
How used Over the past number of years fountain designers have been experimenting with interactive water features enticing the viewer in to participate.
Insulation at these times was one of the biggest concerns for the building of these orangeries, straw became the main material used, and many had wooden shutters fitted to keep in the warmth.
Ashlar () is cut and dressed stone worked to achieve a specific form, typically rectangular; a structure built from such stones; and the look created by the dressing technique.
Mímir is the Nordic god of wisdom, and his well sits at the roots of Yggdrasil, the World Tree which draws its water from the well.
The gallery is situated between the Mont des Arts/Kunstberg and the Grand-Place/Grote Markt (Brussels' main square), not far from the more monumental Royal Saint-Hubert Galleries.
South of Rodrigo de Araya Street, which marks the boundary between Ñuñoa and Macul, several light industries flank the sides of Pedro de Valdivia Avenue.
Parts of the iron technology there were borrowed from shipbuilding, so the resemblance of many designs to upturned ships in not entirely coincidental.
Creating microclimates for the propagation of more and more exotic plants for the private gardens that were becoming creations of beauty all around Europe.
In 2010, Cado Manufacturing purchased the copyrights and the entire Union Products product line, including the pink flamingo, from HMC.
History Designed by Archie Skinner, Ilkley's surveyor and water engineer, building work started in 1934, and the lido was officially opened in May 1935 as part of the Silver Jubilee celebrations of King George V.
After the Mediterranean Games, the venue went unused for a number of years before re-opening in 1983.
Additionally, this method is popular for urban horticulture on balconies of apartments and condominiums where gardeners lack the access to the ground for a traditional garden.
Chia Pets are American styled terracotta figurines used to sprout chia, where the chia sprouts grow within a couple of weeks to resemble the animal's fur or hair.
The butterfly house was so successful that Stephen Fried and Marie Fried bought all of the buildings from the town council with the Royal Swedish Land Agency retaining the land.
Nowadays Fjärilshuset is a national museum with the buildings being held privately and the land leased by Fjarilshuset Haga Tradgard AB.
Gallery See also Blue Abyss, England (planned deep pool) Deepspot, Poland (45 metres (148 ft) deep pool) Deep Dive Dubai (60 metres (200 ft) deep pool) Nemo 33, Belgium (34.5 metres (113 ft) deep pool) References External links Hotel website Pool website
Some are simple wooden shelters on land, while others are on islands in duck ponds or lakes; they can be quite ornate and/or large structures.
These flight ponds are constructed by hunters and wildfowlers to attract ducks, such as mallard, teals, bufflehead and wigeon, at dawn and at dusk.
The artwork is a memorial to the siege of Almadén by General Franco's troops; at the time, the region supplied 60 percent of the world's mercury.
Examples Riwaq arcade examples include: The Saudi Riwaq - portico expansion at the Masjid al-Haram mosque Makkah Along the main avenues of the Bazaar of Kashan, in present-day Iran.
Modular outdoor fire pits and portable fire bowls have become widely available in many materials to extend outdoor living.
The route terminates at an intersection with National Route 280, just short of Sotogahama's border with Imabetsu.
For reasons that are unclear, whirligigs in the shape of the cross became a fashionable allegory in paintings of the fifteenth and sixteenth century.
Pests and diseases, and extremes of temperature and humidity, have to be controlled, and irrigation is necessary to provide water.
James Stevens Curl notes three more-specific usages: the platform-landing reached by symmetrical flights of steps leading to the piano nobile of a building; the steps themselves; or the platform base of edifices like a market cross.
A riwaq (or rivaq, Arabic: رواق riwāq or ruwāq) is an arcade or portico (if in front of entrances) open on at least one side.
The stairs were blocked off in 1981, having been worn down for almost 80 years, and were then repaired between 1982 and 1984, in the process of which a café and art gallery were added in a previously unused inner room behind the stairs, both of which opened on the 1 August 1985.
Many copies of the vase do not correctly depict the scene, replacing Dionysus with a female figure on the wrongful assumption that a sexual act is in progress.
It was designed as a spot for bathers to swim during low tide, and had a sandy bottom until the 1960s, when it was filled with concrete.
Geoffrey of Monmouth, following the early Welsh historian Nennius, created a Christian/classical genealogy which placed Brutus of Troy, grandson of Aeneas and liberator of enslaved Trojans, as founder of Britain.
The frost weathering process can maneuver rock pieces above the ground, in addition to animal and human excavation.
Their place is taken up by the next soldiers on either side, who again engage the opponent briefly and then advance.
The Maiden Hair Fungus inspired the design by Grant Associates and consists of many levels, each with a different theme, including The Lost World, The Cavern, The Waterfall View, The Crystal Mountain, The Cloud Forest Gallery, The Cloud Forest Theatre and The Secret Garden.
A knot garden consists of a variety of aromatic and culinary herbs, or low hedges such as box, planted in lines to create an intertwining pattern that is set within a square frame and laid on a level substrate.
Though the labyrinth lost the title of the largest in the world in 2018 to the Yancheng Dafeng Dream Maze in Yancheng, Jiangsu, PRC, it is still the biggest bamboo labyrinth.
Originally built in 1820, it was part of one of the most extensive collections of citrus trees in the U.S.
Horno ( OR-noh; Spanish: [ˈoɾno]) is a mud adobe-built outdoor oven used by the Native Americans and the early settlers of North America.
Similarly, "the avenues" in San Francisco, California refers to the Richmond District and the Sunset District, the two neighborhoods on the Pacific coast, north and south of Golden Gate Park, respectively.
Tom Stoppard's 1993 play Arcadia deals specifically with the case of an ornamental hermit, investigated by one of the main characters.
One ride is especially notable in the Nokkakivi park because of its long operational history in Finnish amusement parks.
A path connecting the fortress with the Lower Town below was completely made of tombstones with the inscribed sides turned down.
In ancient Greece, cremation was usual, and the ashes were typically placed in a painted Greek vase.
Blocking water from coming out of a given hole produces a given note, which, in some embodiments, is electrically amplified by a hydrophone.
The characteristic flavor of kālua pig is imparted by the smoke from the hardwood but more importantly the use of ti leaves to wrap the meat.
History The vase reappeared in the 1598 inventory of the Villa Medici, Rome, but its origin is unknown.
In 1975, the English maze designer Randoll Coate began his life's work of creating numerous "symbolic" mazes, which combined a distinctive outer image with further internal symbols and images.
History One of the earliest uses of cast iron railings in England was in 1710–14 at St Paul's Cathedral, despite the objections of Christopher Wren, who did not want a fence around the Cathedral at all, and said that if there had to be one it should be of wrought rather than cast iron.
Designed in the mid 19th century as the first middle-class residential district outside the bastions of the fortified heart of the city, the design of Avenyn was inspired by established formal European streets like the Champs-Élysées in Paris and the Ringstraße in Vienna.
William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge and Thomas de Quincey spent much time bathing in the mountain pools of the Lake District.
As of 2021, perlite can safely be flushed down the sewer and is approved and NSF listed for use in the United States.
Prehistoric farms were of about 5 to 10 hectares (12 to 25 acres), with fields about 0.1 hectares (0.25 acres) for hand cultivation.
World's largest Presently the world's largest hydraulophone is located in the outdoor plaza of the Ontario Science Centre, one of Canada's landmark architecture sites.
Corrugated metal sheds may be better able to withstand wind and snow loads, as the corrugated shape makes the metal stronger than flat tin.
Mark trees are often mistakenly called wind chimes, but they are different instruments, though with a basic similar structure consisting of tubes of differing lengths that are meant to produce a tinkling or chiming sound.
If the current position is the last one in the chain, the marker is moved to the chain's first wormhole.
Under Danish law, owners are generally not permitted to use these houses as permanent homes; an exception is made for pensioners.
On December 28, 1972, it was declared Historical Property by the National Institute of Culture through Supreme Resolution No.
It is differentiated from a tent by its main purpose: to house vehicles and/or motorized equipment (a tent is to shelter people).
Infants tend to adopt one of several strategies closely associated with stair descent: Scooting: where the infant sits on the step and thrusts forward using their bottom to land on the next step.
For this they may sit in a room for 30 minutes with Stuart Landsborough seated behind a screen and ask questions while he visualises responses.
The cars rode on a pair of iron-plated fir rails, laid on wooden sleepers anchored into the rock of the valley wall, that were separated by a staircase of 700 steps for pedestrians.
Rills are fairly easily visible when first incised, so they are often the first indication of an ongoing erosion problem.
It is located in the market town of Montsoreau, in the Maine-et-Loire département of France, close to Saumur, Chinon, Fontevraud-l'Abbaye, and Candes-Saint-Martin.
Pool suction-drain injury, also known as suction entrapment, occurs when the drain of a wading pool, swimming pool, hot tub, or fountain sucks in a swimmer's jewelry, torso, limbs, hair or buttocks.
In his New Voyage Round the World, Dampier wrote, "and lay there all night, upon our Borbecu's, or frames of Sticks, raised about 3 foot [0.91 m] from the Ground".
It consisted of a bronze statue of the emperor on a horse, placed on a stone pedestal, with bronze sculptures of the soldiers around it.
Initially a residential street for the wealthy businessmen of the city, Avenyn passes the Stora teatern, the Neo-Renaissance theatre and opera building from 1859, and today has a major concentration of pubs, clubs and restaurants.
Though rare, this technique is displayed on the 12th century Chinese “Rainbow Bridge”, the 1913 moon bridge in the Japanese garden of the Huntington Library in California.
Hardscape is hard landscape materials in the built environment structures that are incorporated into a landscape.
The pool extends out 10 feet (3 m) past the building into the air; this portion is made of 8-inch (20 cm) thick plexiglas so swimmers can view the city below from 500 feet (150 m) above the ground.
Fiberglass shells for hot tubs appeared around 1970 and were soon superseded by cast acrylic shells.
In the 1450s, Soon ui Jeon described the first artificially heated greenhouse in his manuscript called Sangayorok.
They were produced by Pedott's San Francisco-based company, Joseph Enterprises, Inc., which was purchased by National Entertainment Collectibles Association in 2018.
They are often disabled and wheelchair accessible routes offering viewing and experiencing the art for many.
There are also safety concerns in regards to water quality, as wave pools are difficult to chlorinate.
It marks the location where the "last spike" was driven in 1908 for the completion of the North Island Main Trunk line.
The Iulia Hașdeu Castle is a folly built in the form of small castle by historian and politician Bogdan Petriceicu Hașdeu in the city of Câmpina, Romania.
However, with the rise of urban sprawl in the mid-20th century, particularly the increase in public housing in cities in the United States and Europe in the 1950s and 1960s, certain problems with fire escapes became clear.
Chatsworth House, England Disneyland Paris has a hedgemaze in Alice's Curious Labyrinth, an Alice in Wonderland themed area.
In the Nordic countries Especially in the Nordic countries, sommerhus (Danish), sommarstuga (Swedish), hytte (Norwegian), sumarbústaður or sumarhús (Icelandic) or kesämökki (Finnish) is a summer residence (as a second home).
In the 1930s, Otto Przystawik invented the novelty musical fountain feature that came to be called "dancing waters".
Under his supervision, the gardens of Magnolia on the Ashley became well known in the antebellum period for their azaleas and live oak trees.
In 1933 the town council of Stockholm took over the gardens and produced flowers for official use and for embellishment of squares and gardens.
A pergola usually refers to trellis-work that is laid horizontally above head height to provide a partial "roof" in a garden (pergolas are also used in agricultural settings).
To achieve this height in normal bridge construction, significant space from the river banks must be used for the approaches of the bridge.
Following the fall of the Soviet Union and decommunization of Poland, the monument attracted many controversies and calls for its deconstruction, being seen as a symbol of Soviet control of the country.
Straight-rail stair lifts can usually be installed within days of being ordered and, having a rail which is simply cut to length from a stock part, they are the least expensive stair lifts.
Like its name implies, it is a triangular structure that appears to be formed from three individual torii.
For example, an oki-dōrō, or movable lantern (see below) lacks a post, and rests directly on the ground.
His mower design was to be used primarily to cut the lawn on sports grounds and extensive gardens, as a superior alternative to the scythe, and he was granted a British patent on 31 August 1830.
A Grillkota (literally grill goahti) is a small structure with seating centred around an open wood or charcoal-fired grill, originating among Sámi reindeer herders in Scandinavia.
In the 1940s, the Portuguese calçada began to evolve in line with the principles of the International Style, developing abstract geometric patterns.
Ashlar masonry is related but generally distinct from other stone masonry that is finely dressed but not quadrilateral, such as curvilinear and polygonal masonry.
A fairy door is a miniature door, usually set into the base of a tree, behind which may be small spaces where people can leave notes, wishes, or gifts for the "fairies".
Montagne de Bueren (French pronunciation: [mɔ̃taɲ də byʁɛn, -ʁən]) is a 374-step staircase in Liège, Belgium.
A spot of light can be as small as a pinhole in a solargraph or as large as the oculus in the Pantheon.
Stephen was tired of the wind blowing ash onto his food when he grilled so he took the lower half of a buoy, welded three steel legs onto it, and fabricated a shallower hemisphere for use as a lid.
Gongshi (Chinese: 供石), also known as scholar's rocks or viewing stones, are naturally occurring or shaped rocks which are traditionally appreciated by Chinese scholars.
According to Campbell, the first estate with a well-known hermitage (which included a small house, chapel and garden) was Château de Gaillon, renovated by Charles Cardinal de Bourbon during the 16th century.
There were few if any flowers, but there might be statues, and some seating, especially in garden rooms or salle vertes ("green rooms"), clearings left empty.
Following Ricci's death, the puzzle of about eight hectares has remained a tourist attraction in the town of Fontanellato near Parma, Italy.
For users with shorter legs a short seat can be fitted, to make the lift more comfortable to sit on.
Up until the rise of the industrial age, when the modern water pump was introduced, water was not recirculated but was diverted from rivers and springs into the water garden, from which it exited into agricultural fields or natural watercourses.
The ages of human life in the form of male and female figures are depicted at the center of the icon and the labyrinth, on the steps of a stone pyramid.
The imperial soldiers exhausted themselves over the night by attempting to escape but only at daybreak did they realize that they were actually charging at piles of dirt.
A moon bridge (月桥), also known as “sori-bashi" (反り橋) in Japanese, or as a drum bridge (“taiko-bashi” 太鼓橋), is a highly arched pedestrian bridge.
In some cases, the water drawn from the cistern then ran down a decorative carved marble panel called a salsabil, which may also have served the purpose of aerating the water as it came from the cistern.
The surreal nature of the complex has invited interest, and, in 2020, Gucci chose it as a modeling location for its Bloom campaign.
The monument is four-sided, 6 ft (1.8 m) high and 4 ft (1.2 m) across the base, with black lettering on a white marble slab.
They are commonly constructed from metal, polycarbonate, or fabric materials, depending on the design and intended use.
However, in the late 1980s, following the 1988 Armenian earthquake, the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and the First Nagorno-Karabakh War, construction was suspended.
These were often more heavily planted with flowering plants, and this style was often used for flower gardens at the side of the house.
Initially they were often decorated with geometrical mosaics often incorporating shells, but by the end of the century could contain ambitious figure subjects.
Maintenance All types of agricultural fencing require regular maintenance to ensure their effectiveness.
In 2018, the building underwent significant restoration and was subsequently reopened to the public.
They may be composed of introduced species not native to the area, particularly in the United States.
An online database provided by greenroof.com for example had reported 80% of the 61 large-scale outdoor green walls listed as constructed after 2009, with 93% after 2007.
Invertebrate animals (such as dragonflies and water beetles) and insectivorous vertebrates such as amphibians (frogs and toads), turtles and waterbirds can colonize new ponds quickly.
An eyecatcher is something artificial that has been placed in the landscape as a focal point to "catch the eye" or gain a viewer's attention.
It was built in 1772 to commemorate the 31st year of Manuel Pinto da Fonseca's magistracy, and it is now a landmark and symbol of Qormi.
History The current Paweł Adamowicz Square was originally formed as part of the White Parade Square, sometime between 1725 and 1745, by filling the sections of the moat with the rubble from the former city walls.
From 1808 to 1813, it was used as the barracks of the French Imperial Army, while the area was occupied during the Napoleonic Wars.
Gallery See also Family coat of arms of the Proeck family Franklin stove References External links Media related to Fire baskets at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of fire basket at Wiktionary
According to the Guinness Book of Records, the world's longest herbaceous border, at 215 metres (705 ft), is at Dirleton Castle, East Lothian, Scotland.
