The track peaked at number 8 on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 2 on the Canadian 100 Hit Tracks chart.
Hooked on Classics 3 (Journey Through the Classics) is the third album in the Hooked on Classics series, performed by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra under the direction of Louis Clark.
The video, filmed in Cleveland's Phantasy Theater, was directed by David Greathouse whose work included music videos for the band, Mushroomhead.
David then performed with different UK opera companies, one of which was the Glyndebourne Festival Opera for their Summer Festival and touring company.
His appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show during her Holiday Music Extravaganza, where he sang "What Child Is This", with Mary J.
Evancho performed nearly the same songs as those on the Dream With Me CD for her first solo concert televised special, which first aired in June 2011 on PBS stations ("The Prayer" was omitted, but "Dark Waltz" and "Mi Mancherai" were added).
Career On November 8, 2019, Super Vocal released their first single, Mandarin version of the song "Into the Unknown" (未知的真相), title track of the Disney animation Frozen II.
In September 2017, Potts won the 320th episode of the South-Korean television music competition Immortal Songs: Singing the Legend, in a duet with Bae Da-hae.
A few days before his "Arnau" Concert of 29 June 2019, in Astana, Kazakhstan, there were explosions near the Kazakhstan city of Arys that caused casualties.
Professional singing career In 1999, Garðar won the principal role of Raoul, Vicomte de Chagny, in The Phantom of the Opera at Her Majesty's Theatre in London's West End.
In the early years of her performing career, MacGregor was a prolific composer for the theatre (including work for Cheek by Jowl, and Oxford Stage Company's production of Hamlet at Elsinore Castle and the Edinburgh Festival).
Since leaving the group she has toured Australia, Dubai and New Zealand as a soloist with The Morriston Orpheus Male voice choir.
On 20 September 2006 it was announced on the Amici Forever website that Jo Appleby would be leaving the group to pursue a career as a solo artist.
Her performance with the Auckland Youth Orchestra of Handle's Lascia Chi’o pianga was recognized by the For Those Who Love Opera Facebook page, which is followed by more than 280,000 people, with For Those Who Love Opera sharing her work.
Chris Brubeck was a "formidable songwriter", a first class exponent of the trombone and the bass and a pianist whose skill at the keyboard was widely underestimated.
In September 2008 Osokins joined the Royal Academy of Music, studying under the guidance of Hamish Milne.
On 6 January, his producer and composer Igor Krutoy claimed in a comment on his own Instagram account that Dimash's account had been put offline following the events.
At the England versus Scotland Six Nations Rugby Match at Twickenham on 21 March 2009, Ansell sang "God Save the Queen" at Twickenham.
The second, released by Telarc in 1996, is a 58-minute CD performed by the same artists and von Stade's elder daughter, Jenny Elkus.
As a child, Shahoian performed with the Oakland Symphony under the direction of the late Calvin Simmons.
She plans to release a classical-fusion album with hip-hop/trap influences in 2020, entitled Key of Black Minor, to be released alongside a documentary of her life.
...They wouldn't be a runaway...and just lay a real beat behind it an' the people would began to really like it.
Release Bloodlines was released and distributed by Midnight Syndicate's own label, Entity Productions, debuting at #12 on Billboard's Classical Crossover charts.
In late January 1942, Durbin and Universal settled their differences, with the studio conceding to Durbin the approval of her directors, stories, and songs.
It was released in 1988 and serves as the second and final album by Mercury to be recorded outside of Queen.
Two examples of this are Lesley Garrett's excursions into musical comedy and José Carreras's recording West Side Story, as well as Teresa Stratas' recording Showboat.
The featured single on the album is Silent Night, a collaboration with David Foster, who arranged the song, and accompanied the trio on piano, and featured vocals by Gloria Estefan.
Track listing Note: Sian Edwards conducted the Orchestra and Chorus of Welsh National Opera, with Meinir Huelyn on harp.
Loussier composed film scores and a number of classical pieces, including a Mass, a ballet, and violin concertos.
In 2006, a collection of her solo and choral work with Anúna, Celtic Dreams, was released on Valley Entertainment Records.
It was the 29th biggest-selling album of 2008 in the UK and made Rhydian the most successful male solo artist of that year.
Born in Much Wenlock, Shropshire, England, she trained at Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London.
Her first internationally released album, Pure, reached number one on the UK classical charts in 2003 and has sold more than two million copies worldwide, making it one of the fastest selling albums in her country's history.
On August 10, 2010, Evancho performed on a special YouTube quarter-final edition of the fifth season of America's Got Talent.
It was released by Really Useful Records and Polydor Records on LP (with a gatefold cover), cassette and CD.
In some contexts, the term "crossover" can have negative connotations associated with cultural appropriation, implying the dilution of a music's distinctive qualities to appeal to mass tastes.
Rigoletto, live from Mantua, 2010 RAI film version of Rigoletto, performed live on location in Mantua, Italy and broadcast simultaneously in 148 countries.
Release history – 14 March 2008 – 17 March 2008 – 25 March 2008 – 24 November 2008 (2 CD edition) References External links Mike Oldfield Discography – Music of the Spheres at Tubular.net
5 on the Billboard Classical Crossover Albums chart and was featured on the Tamron Hall Show where he shared in depth about his adoption story.
When writing, we wanted to create pieces that incorporated the multiple levels of the vampyre: the hunger, the reflection, the predators, the prey, the passion, and the fury.
Later, in the 1980s, Franchi continued to perform at a number of popular venues in the United States.
Soon after, Rushdie won a place with the Royal Choral Society with whom she has performed regularly, including her second performance of 2011 at the Royal Albert Hall, Carmina Burana.
The video marked the first time Midnight Syndicate performed live together on stage and featured cameos Mushroomhead band members Jeff Hatrix and "Schmotz".
She specialized in opera arias, art song, and semi-classical songs, which is today known as classical crossover.
The record features different versions of songs included in the chart-topping album Colours in the Dark, plus a studio version of "Into the Sun", previously only available as a live track (originally on Act I).
Aacayipsin sold two and a half million copies and earned Tarkan the "Best Male Pop Music Artist" award at the Turkey Music Awards.
Jonathan Antoine (born 13 January 1995) and Charlotte Jaconelli (born 24 August 1995), known collectively as Jonathan and Charlotte, were an English classical crossover duo from Essex.
One direction; nice, simple, sitting in a sunny field, female-voiced acoustic folk, the other towards a rarer thing, this fusion of English medieval progressive classical, chamber orchestral music, via Vaughan Williams, Cardiacs, Vernon Elliott, Henry Cow.
See also Tuscan Skies (Cieli di Toscana) References External links Cieli Di Toscana on Billboard.com Cieli Di Toscana on Ultratop.com
She took singing classes with a variety of different teachers as well as piano, dance, and acting classes.
Rahman) – 5:26 "Moroccan Roll" (Jon Cohen, Kad Achouri & Vanessa-Mae) – 3:08 "Handel's Minuet" (George Friederic Handel) – 3:50 Chart performance == References ==
Milton Brown and His Brownies, Bob Wills and His Texas Playboys, Spade Cooley and His Buckle-Busters, Adolph Hofner and His San Antonians, Tex Williams and His String Band, Grady Martin and His Winging Strings, and Billy Gray and His Western Okies all had their own albums.
Erich Kunzel had presented collectors with the most complete edition of The Sound of Music that had ever appeared on the shelves of a record shop.
In the fall of 1968, Corea began recording and touring with Miles Davis, appearing on the widely praised Davis studio albums Filles de Kilimanjaro, In a Silent Way, Bitches Brew, and On the Corner.
This album, being Bocelli's fifth pop release, peaked at number 1 on the Dutch Albums Top 100, stayed on that chart for 33 weeks, and ended up being certified Gold.
In June 2017, Safina performed "'O sole mio" with Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli at the Peoples' Friendship Palace in Tashkent, Uzbekistan.
It was released on 23 November 2009 by Syco Music in the United Kingdom, and by Columbia Records in the United States one day later.
In Germany, the album was certified 4× Platinum for shipping two million units, making it one of the best-selling albums ever in the country.
He attended the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York, and graduated with a bachelor's degree in performance.
His duet with Celine Dion, "The Prayer," originally appeared as a solo version (for Celine Dion) in the 1998 animated film Quest for Camelot, and won the Golden Globe for Best Original Song as well as being nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song.
Robin Leach wrote: "12-year-old superstar singer Jackie [Evancho] stole the night with her "Bridge over Troubled Water" sung barefoot in the water of the giant stage.
Jon Christos (born John Christodoulou 23 March 1976, Salford, England) is an English singer, local radio presenter.
Later that year around Christmas, she performed all over New York City, and with the Latshaw Pops Orchestra at The Palace Theatre in Greensburg, Pennsylvania.
Track listing "Pie Jesu" "My Lagan Love" "In Trutina" "Panis Angelicus" "Amazing Grace" "Just Wave Hello" "La Pastorella" "She Moved Through the Fair" "Ave Maria" "Dream a Dream (Feat.
Designed to be listened to first and segued into Mansion in the Mist, Bloodlines expands upon the backstory of the Haverghast family and the events that transpired before the story in The 13th Hour begins.
Deutsche Grammophon's engineering was one of the album's few weak points, probably because of the inherent difficulty of recording singers moving around on a stage.
Marsh graduated with a First-class Honours degree from Birmingham University and was awarded the Barber Scholarship to study Opera at the Royal College of Music.
She wrote the English lyrics for the song "Your Love", music by Igor Krutoy and interpreted by Dimash Qudaibergen.
Having favoured the approach and results on Sky's first two albums, in 2024 he would reflect on a certain dissatisfaction with the group's subsequent direction and musical development.
Concerts In 2017 they had concerts in several cities in Latvia (Riga, Jelgava, Rezekne, Ventspils, Liepaja, Cesis) to promote their album “Ludwig van Rammstein”.
She is the first female artist to win two consecutive Classical BRIT Awards: her second album, Second Nature, reached number 16 in the UK Albums Chart, and was Album of the Year in the 2005 BRIT Awards.
The 13th Hour is the sixth studio album by Midnight Syndicate, released June 7, 2005, by Entity Productions.
It's a magical musical journey." The trio appeared as "The Christmas Tenors" to wrap up the Open Air Concert Series put on by Varela's Victory Productions at The Villages Polo Fields.
Emma Shapplin (born Crystêle Madeleine Joliton, 19 May 1974) is a French soprano singer, composer and visual artist known for her fusion of operatic singing with electronic and pop music influences.
The band further expanded in 2016 with the addition of drummer Artūrs Jermaks and welcomed double bass player Alise Broka in 2020.
Thapa worked with the National Chamber Choir in Dublin before moving back to London, and was in the Scottish Opera's production of Kátya Kabanová.
It includes songs from the musicals The Phantom of the Opera, Tell Me on a Sunday, Evita, Cats, Jesus Christ Superstar, Starlight Express and Requiem.
Its Manhattan premiere, starring Plácido Domingo and Brightman, was filmed by the BBC and PBS for later broadcast.
In December, Forte joined Gunn, Isabel Leonard and John Fogerty in performance at the MLB Prostate Cancer Foundation 2015 New York Dinner in New York City.
She learned from a young age to play the cello and the piano and at first trained to be a concert cellist.
Under the private tutoring of Swedish tenor Gösta Winbergh of the Royal Swedish Opera and French tenor Christian Papis, Bühler enriched his classical repertoire.
2021 2020 Summer Olympics Gymnastics - Two works performed, Winter Symphony performed by Vladislava Urazova and her arrangement of Tchaikovsky's Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy by Lee Yun-seo 2021 ISU World Team Trophy in Figure Skating 'The Fire Within' performed by Rika Kihira.
He has told the media that he regards the institution of marriage as outdated, stating he would only get married for the benefit of any children he might have.
Schoenberg's contribution was restored to its first position and a new narration track was dubbed circa December 1950.
Her voice coach for 2 years while studying in Vienna in 2007 was Claudia Visca, an American soprano.
He also interpreted the role of Percy in Donizetti's Anne Boleyn at Pittsburgh Opera with John Mauceri during 2000/2001.
When asked if Bell had any objections to Presley recording his own version, Bell gave Colonel Tom Parker, Presley's manager, a copy of his 1955 Teen Records' recording, hoping that if Presley recorded it, "he might reap some benefit when his own version was released on an album".
The band gained a huge popularity in Japan, were they released a series of largely instrumental albums such as Da Makani (1988) exclusively for the Japanese market.
Christos also accompanied Davis in June 2007 at James Bond theme concerts with the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic, and the next month at Leeds Castle in Kent.
She was initially selected, but was let go soon afterwards owing to their feeling that, at age twenty, she was too old.
In addition to classical music in an American vernacular, the quartet occasionally breaks out on more traditional instrumental bluegrass tunes.
Chart performance On 24 August 2014, Stars debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart, ending Ed Sheeran's eight-week run at number one with his album x.
Discography Singles "Silent Night" (2020) Albums Christmas Serenade (Nov, 2020) as EP, Full release in 2021 Romantic Serenade (Feb, 2021) as EP See also Fernando Varela Craig Irvin Devin Eatmon References External links Official website
The label combines new recordings with re-releases of older recordings which MacGregor was able to reclaim after Collins Classics ceased trading.
The album included a re-make of the Weasels' cut "Something Wicked" from Uranus or Bust, along with eleven new tracks composed by Weäsell and Graf.
Death Vincenzo La Scola died at the age of 53 on 15 April 2011 in Mersin, Turkey due to a heart attack.
As One, one of the tracks in her album, Sanctuary is the theme song for NHK's program, Autumn's 3 Biggest Open Groove 2006.
He used his gifts to inspire and lift others and will be greatly missed." A complete obituary ran in the Southeast Missourian on November 10, 2018 and an obituary ran in the St.
Shilkret's son Arthur, the publisher for the concerto did not pursue further exploitation of the concerto, nor did his wife Barbara Shilkret, who became publisher upon Arthur's death in 1982.
Rhydian is the self-titled debut studio album by Welsh singer Rhydian, the runner-up on the fourth series of The X Factor.
In 2007, Fabri completed her bachelor's degree in psychology (B.Psy Hons.) from the University of Malta and also gained various diplomas in child psychology.
Current members Cameron Barclay Nicholas Matters Michael Edwards (MD) Andrew Waldin Thomas Weaver Ben Cody-Osborne Shaun Kohlman Ben Clark Jack Jordan Sam Ward Band Benjamin Kiehne (Piano) Trent Bryson-Dean (Drums) Note: The roster of members does change – the above list is current as at April 2023.
On 3 March, Boe performed in 'The End of the Show Show' on Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway alongside Michael Ball.
The Marcy Playground album drew little notice until a radio station in San Diego began playing "Sex and Candy" and at the same time the song was chosen by filmmaker Morgan J.
Some of his performances in the Spanish operetta include La Gran Vía (The Great Way), La revoltosa (The Rebellious), in which he played Felipe, and La verbena de la Paloma (The Fair of the Virgin of la Paloma), in which he played Julián.
Track listing "The Impossible Dream" "To Where You Are" "What If (duet with Idina Menzel)" "The Prayer" "Bridge Over Troubled Water" "There Will Be a Time" "Somewhere" "Not a Dry Eye in the House" "I Believe" "I'm Coming Home Again" "Who Wants to Live Forever" Charts == References ==
They say her voice is "one that heals," which is an accurate description considering her soothing vocals and extensive range.
After the September 11 attacks in 2001, when she was 15, Church was criticised for the remarks attributed to her by the New York Post in which she allegedly criticised "the hero status afforded to New York firefighters" in their aftermath.
In 2010 the band self-released their debut live DVD "Sterling EQ Live in Concert", which won them the SAMA Award in 2011.
Songwriting March 20, 2020, China's first male bel canto quartet, Super Vocal, performed "Qui con me (Ni De Se Cai)" ("Your Colors") on the Hunan Satellite TV singing competition Singer 2020, in both Italian and Chinese lyrics.
His Mass, Lumières: Messe Baroque du 21e Siècle (Lights: A Baroque Mass of the 21st Century), has been compared to Leonard Bernstein's Mass.
Her entry's title, "Marte", and a preview of the song were released to the public on 20 September 2019.
Members As of February 2007, the band consisted of: Lucy van Gasse (England) (soprano), born in Nailsea, Somerset.
During this period Marín lived in the Netherlands in Eindhoven, but moved back to Spain when he was twelve.
Discography Studio albums Compilation albums Awards Mo Awards The Australian Entertainment Mo Awards (commonly known informally as the Mo Awards), were annual Australian entertainment industry awards.
The "Weekly Feature Concert—New Recordings” program of Los Angeles radio station KFAC played the recording of the Genesis Suite on 7 February 1947.
Following this a partnership was established with Avex Entertainment to promote her album Key of Sea in Japan Commencing June 19, 2019, Thomas embarked on a well-received summer concert tour of the western United States.
The second issue, Classical Speed 2, was released on August 18, 2004 with tracks including "Jupiter" as the intro, and 19 other tracks, including technically non-classical compositions such as "Jazz Suite Waltz", "Amazing Grace", and "Stars and Stripes Forever".
She then competed on season 16 of America's Got Talent when she was 9, and made it to the finals with the “golden buzzer”.
References External links Holly Holyoake official site Official MySpace profile Holly Holyoake at BBC Wales Holly Holyoake International (fan site)
Seemingly, the behaviour was to be explained with a sort of revenge for the room carpeting, to which the trio was allergic.
Recently she had some performances in Mexico City and Pachuca de Soto with the Mexican Crossover tenor Oscar Aguilar.
The Herald Angels Sing"), the album contains various famous arias and hymns ("Panis angelicus", "Ave Maria (Vavilov)").
In 1996, Walt Disney Studios hired Fabian as the voice of the character of Esmeralda in the Canadian French version of the animated feature The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Almost all the members of Fairport Convention have toured the folk club circuit solo or in smaller units and the line up at Cropredy includes as many acoustic acts as electric.
He also began to build his own instruments, one of which, a mbira, was later employed by Robert Fripp.
The period orchestrations which he had championed "[did not] miss a trick to underline the syncopation in Rodgers's writing".
His progress in the field led him to move to Amsterdam, where he studied voice at Sweelinck Conservatorium with Udo Reinemann, a well-known German baritone.
"Williamson's Garage" "Daisy's Dead" "Frankfurt, I'm Sorry" "Christmas Eve" (traditional) "Resurrection" "The Miller's Daughter" (Kelly) "Bare Branches" "Strange Bedfellows" "Kiss and Tell" "Milk, Tea and Oranges" "Let the Ass Bray" == References ==
The album contains eight unreleased songs, written by Diane Warren, Luis Bacalov and Latin Grammy winner Edgar Cortazar among others, and four covers.
Later Puno graduated from the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts and went on to direct the film "Valle de Lágrimas" in 2006.
Komsky lived in Danville, California, and went to Monte Vista High School where he joined the chamber choir.
In 2006, Louwerse became the youngest ever winner of the Dame Joan Sutherland Opera Award and went on to record a debut EP entitled She Walks in Beauty.
I Will Be With You is a translation of the African version "Jy Vat My Hoër" and "Follow Your Heart" is also translated.
In an interview with Digital Spy, the band explained that the nature of being a musical theatre act means they don't consider their new album a collection of cover versions.
Initially, the band could not afford to pay Watts, who had been earning a regular salary from his gigs.
Songs such as "Sex Kills", "Sunny Sunday", "Borderline" and "The Magdalene Laundries" mixed social commentary and guitar-focused melodies for "a startling comeback".
In April and May 2011, Ansell played the role of the Prince/Beast in a national tour of Beauty and the Beast..
The music label Decca announced the official formation of the first Chinese male bel canto group named "Super Vocal” at the Decca 90 Anniversary Event.
Television appearances 1980 The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson (Episode 2405) 1980 The Mike Douglas Show 1980 Just Kidding 1981 That's Incredible 1983 The John Davidson Show Discography Recognition == References ==
On December 16, 2007, Tesolin sang with The Canadian Tenors at their Christmas Concert at the Oakville Centre for the Performing Arts.
La Voce is the ninth album by British tenor Russell Watson and his first resumption of a largely classical repertoire since overcoming brain cancer.
Reception Belgium's Side Line Magazine praised how the soundscape elements took the album further than typical horror film scores.
In this concert she sang ten songs never recorded or performed by her before, including "Senza Catene" (the Italian version of "Unchained Melody"), "Nelle Tue Mani" ("Now We Are Free", from the movie "Gladiator") and others.
The Pointer Sisters' second album, the 1974 release That's a Plenty, continued in the jazz and be-bop style of its predecessor but provided one exception that caused a great deal of interest: "Fairytale", written by Anita and Bonnie, was a country song that reached No.
On November 6, 2011, Tesolin's self-titled 3-track EP featuring "Dolce", "The Key", and "Now That I Know" was released.
Joe Satriani collaboration Joe Satriani played lead guitar on the tracks "Conflicted" and "Forgive Me".
While at university she began taking singing lessons and very quickly developed her outstanding voice.
In December 2012, Boe was featured as a guest artist for the holiday concert series of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, Orchestra at Temple Square and Bells on Temple Square.
In 2010, at the age of ten, she gained wide notice with her 2nd-place finish in the fifth season of America's Got Talent.
Classical crossover Classical crossover broadly encompasses both classical music that has become popularized and a wide variety of popular music forms performed in a classical manner or by classical artists.
Les Stentors are a 4-member vocal super group made up of operatic voices from all regions of France.
On 7 January 2017, Brightman presided over the naming ceremony as godmother of the Richard Branson's new 600-guest ship MV Seabourn Encore, the first of two new all-suite vessels for the company.
The Suite Background Shilkret conceived of the Genesis project while traveling with his friend Rex Schepp, perhaps around 1943.
Neal Evans Boyd (November 18, 1975 – June 10, 2018) was an American singer who developed an interest in opera after listening to the performances of the Three Tenors.
Being neither one thing nor the other, however, its audience was bound to be divided and it may be regarded as an experiment belonging to its time.
Nathan Smith of the Houston Press stated "Sex and Candy" was perfect crossover music, as its edgy, sexual lyrics were suitable for rock radio, while it was still "pussy enough for adult contemporary." Several media outlets compared "Sex and Candy" to the work of Nirvana with Jonah Bayer of The A.V.
In February 2007 Bawden co-wrote two tracks and recorded material with producer and songwriter, Audius Mtawarira (Delta Goodrem, Guy Sebastian, Paulini).
Discography White on Blue (2004) Secret Love (2011) Carousel (2019) Innocent Days (2023) References External links Crossfade discography at Discogs Crossfade at AllMusic
She subsequently signed a contract with Motown and this led to a brief, moderately successful, solo career.
Despite their contributions, folk metal remained little known with few representatives during the 1990s.
"Kaze No Toorimichi" was originally recorded by Joe Hisaishi, featuring the Suginami Children's Choir for the soundtrack to the 1988 film My Neighbor Totoro.
This album features duets with Barbra Streisand and Britain's Got Talent runner-up Susan Boyle, as well as twelve solo tracks.
He went on in 1944 to perform at the Teatro Lírico Cubano (Lyric Theater of Cuba), singing in La Plaza de la Catedral (The Cathedral Square), a zarzuela by Lecuona.
The album was recorded in June 2010 with the Roma Sinfonietta in the historic studio Forum Music Village, produced by Mike Hedges and was released on 22 November 2010 on Epic Records, his first release on this label.
After graduating from Sheffield University with a degree in music, she was offered a place to train with Steven Maughan at the Amsterdam Opera House and later, with Jesús León in London.
Also during the second part of the year, he performed in Croatia, Serbia, Italy, the US, Dubai, Switzerland and finally in Scandinavia.
Isobel Cooper (born 24 January 1975), known professionally as Izzy, is an English operatic pop soprano singer.
Together peaked at number 5 on the UK Albums Chart, which was followed by the duo releasing the album in the US and Canada on 30 October 2012.
Members Sabino Gaita was born on April 24, 1977, in Milan, Italy, where he studied music at the local conservatory.
In 2014, on the 10th anniversary of the publication of their first album, the group sold over 28 million albums worldwide, achieving more than 50 number one sales and receiving 160 gold records and platinum in over 33 countries.
Julian Kershaw) "Flight of the Bumblebee" (Rimsky-Korsakov) "Bohemian Rhapsody" (Freddie Mercury / Tolga Kashif) "The Gypsy Maid" (Giuseppe Verdi / arr.
With set design inspired by the album's cover art, the show featured music from the album, various cirque-type specialty acts, and pyrotechnics.
When the men faced the judges, Mel B asked them to explain the personnel change, and said it was like a second audition.
Their most popular release is their cover of the Game of Thrones theme, which has over 27 million views on YouTube.
In a 2011 interview with FEARnet, composer, Edward Douglas said: We've definitely put together something different for us (Midnight Syndicate), but we still maintain our identity.
After Corea's complaint against this policy before the administrative court was unsuccessful in 1996, members of the United States Congress, in a letter to the German government, denounced the ban as a violation of Corea's human rights.
Early life Paonessa began to take voice lessons at the young age of 10 and performed her first official recital at the age of 15.
She was dubbed "Australia's greatest operatic discovery." In the Grand Final, Bawden performed Léo Delibes' "Flower Duet" (Yanni's Aria version) which she translated to English from its French lyrics, after a judge requested that she sing in English.
During that time, Belle du Berry and David Lewis continued to work together, producing the album Quizz (2009) and performing together on stage.
Eurovision Song Contest 2011 On 27 January 2011, it was announced by the French broadcaster France Télévisions that Vassili would be the French entry at the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 to be held in Düsseldorf, Germany.
After the two groups performed at the National Concert Hall, Dublin, in April 2012, they recorded the album later in the year.
He has taught as a freelancer at the Royal Academy of Music and at the Rhythmic Conservatory in Copenhagen.
Background and release Gates of Delirium was written, produced, and mixed by Edward Douglas and Gavin Goszka.
2 on the Catalog Albums Chart, second only to Michael Bublé's 2011 Christmas album, on its second week of the season.
Craig Harvey of Movement Magazine compared the minimalistic piano lines on certain tracks to early John Carpenter scores.
Teenage music career In 2015, at thirteen years old, Lukyanets gained recognition in wider Europe when she performed a blind audition for The Voice Kids, the children's edition of The Voice of Germany, bringing one of the hosts to tears with her performance.
She was the winner of the 2013 Operalia competition and has featured in a number of productions staged at the Mariinsky Theatre, St.
Highlights of his career in 2004 and 2005 included his first appearances with English Touring Opera singing Ferrando in Così fan tutte, and at the Rossini in Wildbad Festival singing Conte Alberto in L'occasione fa il ladro.
Pzazz completed their national tour of Ireland, supporting The Celtic Tenors in late December 2005/January 2006.
On 11 July they performed at the 'Les Tombees de la Nuit' Festival in the Opera House in Rennes, Brittany.
For example, Renowned for Sound gave a somewhat negative review that awarded the album two and a half stars out of five.
However, according to the prosecutor, the case against Grachev was closed due to his active repentance.
They ended 2009 with their first Christmas special intimate show, Celebrate Christmas with Il Divo, which included a traditional repertoire of favourite festive songs with an orchestra and special guests in the United Kingdom, the United States, and Canada.
However, the album received little commercial notice, and Shocked parted ways with the label following an acrimonious lawsuit.
After Barcelona was selected to host the 1992 Summer Olympics, Mercury was approached to write a song as a theme for the forthcoming games.
On 27 February 2012, Church accepted £600,000 in damages and costs in settlement of a lawsuit arising out of the News International phone hacking scandal.
They received very good reviews both for the album and the concert in magazines such as The Wire, Rolling Stone among others.
Open Heart Symphony is a 1996 album by Spirit of the West, in collaboration with the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra.
He subsequently attended the California Institute of the Arts to study African and Indian music full-time.
However, one of the band members felt that only guitarists should be seen on stage, due to the group's reputation as a guitar-based heavy metal band.
The tambourine is a musical instrument in the percussion family consisting of a frame, often of wood or plastic, with pairs of small metal jingles, called "zills".
Roles Backline guitar technicians, audio technicians and stage crew set up and put away the backline equipment.
The choice of winding has considerable impact on the sound of the instrument, with certain winding styles often being preferred for certain musical genres.
Terminology The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians refers to this instrument as an "Electric bass guitar, usually with four heavy strings tuned E1'–A1'–D2–G2." It also defines bass as "Bass (iv).
The core is a wire which runs through the center of the string and is made of steel, nickel, or an alloy.
Instruments with a fingerboard are then played by adjusting the length of the vibrating portion of the strings.
The B-2 and C-2, introduced in 1949, allowed vibrato to be enabled or disabled on each manual separately.
In some cases, the session musician who recorded an instrumental part on the album may not be available for an entire tour.
Some Hammond staff thought Laurens Hammond was being irrational and autocratic towards Leslie, but Don Leslie later said it helped give his speakers publicity.
A less expensive alternative to gut strings is nylon strings; the higher strings are pure nylon, and the lower strings are nylon wrapped in wire, to add more mass to the string, slowing the vibration, and thus facilitating lower pitches.
Chord books are available including such chords, but many guitarists experiment to form their own distinctive chords.
The pah is played on the off-beats by higher-pitched instruments such as the clarinet, accordion or trombone.
Some rhythm sections combine electronic/digital instruments that are sequenced, pre-recorded backup tracks and live instruments (including electric, electronic and acoustic instruments).
The fingerboard, also called the fretboard, is a piece of wood embedded with metal frets that comprises the top of the neck.
The twangy sitar-like tone comes from a carefully designed and contoured bridge surface adding the necessary buzz to the guitar strings.
In the late 1700s, the tambourine had a surge in popularity in England, with some composers of salon music writing parts for tambourine, indicating as many as 30 different playing strokes or moves.
The company has a dedicated Church Advisory Team that provides a consultancy, so churches can choose the most appropriate instrument.
While other instrument solos such as guitar solos are typically accompanied by the other rhythm section instruments (e.g., bass guitar and electric guitar), for most drum solos, all the other band members stop playing so that all of the audience's focus will be on the drummer.
A drum fill is used to "fill in" the space between the end of one verse and the beginning of another verse or chorus.
A small number of players, such as Stanley Clarke and John Patitucci, have achieved virtuosic skill on both instruments.
A minor thirteenth chord (A−13, Amin13, Ami13, or Am13) contains the notes: root, ♭3, 5, 7, (9), (11), 13.
The sensor-embedded pads and plastic cymbals are mounted on a stand or on multiple stands, so that the drummer can put them in the desired position.
Digital accordions have a sensor that detects bellows pressure, which affects the loudness, sustain, and in some instruments, the timbre of the synthesized or sampled sound.
In a funk song in which the bassline already consists of percussive slapping and popping, a bass run may consist of a virtuosic display of rapid slapping and popping techniques combined with techniques such as glissando, note-bending, and harmonics.
For this soloist, the comper may use open voicings, omit passing chords, and try to play mainly in the space left by the soloist.
The Roland VK-7, introduced in 1997, attempted to emulate the sound of a Hammond using digital signal processing technology.
Cristofori's great success was designing a stringed keyboard instrument in which the notes are struck by a hammer.
During a bass run, the main vocal or melody line usually stops, and in some cases, the percussion or drums may also stop.
The exception is well-known progressions (e.g., 12 bar blues) and jazz standards such as "I Got Rhythm", known colloquially as "rhythm changes".
In this sense, it may actually be considered as an acoustic bass guitar, for it shares the same low-end range.
Motown singers and musicians often grew up with gospel music, and they carried the tambourine into pop performance.
In contrast, all of the strings are fingered for a barre chord, which requires greater technique to be allowed to ring freely.
At their simplest, these consist of passive components, such as potentiometers and capacitors, but may also include specialized integrated circuits or other active components requiring batteries for power, for preamplification and signal processing, or even for electronic tuning.
6" (on Fine Line) D'Angelo, on the 2014 album Black Messiah, on songs including "Another Life" and "The Charade".
Most luthiers and experienced players agree that a good solid top (as opposed to laminated or plywood) is the most important factor in the tone of the guitar.
A floating or trapeze tailpiece (similar to a violin's) fastens to the body at the base of the guitar.
In music for stringed instruments, especially guitar, an open chord (open-position chord) is a chord that includes one or more strings that are not fingered.
It became prized for its distinctive sound, however, and gained a place in several musical styles (most notably blues and bluegrass), and retains a niche well after the proliferation of electric amplification.
Early EUBs used magnetic pickups similar to those in electric guitars, or percussive magnetic diaghram pickups.
The electric bass was much easier to amplify to stadium-filling volumes using large bass speaker cabinets and amplifiers than an upright bass.
Some of the earliest commercial polyphonic synthesizers were created by the American engineer Tom Oberheim, such as the OB-X (1979).
Chord-playing musicians (e.g., those playing guitar, piano, Hammond organ, etc.) can improvise chords, "fill-in" melodic lines and solos from the chord chart.
Neck-through instruments extend the neck to the length of the instrument so that it forms the center of the body.
Having professional backline gear means that the sound engineers do not have to deal with modest-quality amplifiers.
The piano and harp represent the first method, where each note on the instrument has its own string or course of multiple strings tuned to the same note.
In unaccompanied solo performance, basslines may simply be played in the lower register of any instrument while melody and/or further accompaniment is provided in the middle or upper register.
Some players use their more nimble fingertips to play fast-moving solo passages or to pluck lightly for quiet tunes.
It was designed to be used in conjunction with Farfisa's amplifiers, and had a multi-pin cable that connected the controls of the accordion, with the controls of the amplifier, or the F/AR, an external reverb, preamp and power supply unit.
Many travelling musicians prefer not to transport their own gear across borders and continents for fear of damage or customs hassles.
External sound modules Many 2010s-era and 2020s-era digital accordions have an internal sound module.
A piano is a keyboard instrument that produces sound when its keys are pressed, activating an action mechanism where hammers strike strings.
At low frequencies, which depend on the size of the box, the chamber acts like a Helmholtz resonator, increasing or decreasing the volume of the sound again depending on whether the air in the box moves in phase or out of phase with the strings.
Most digital accordions need to be plugged into a keyboard amplifier or PA system to hear their sounds.
Tambourines were used in ancient Egypt, where they were known as the tof to the Hebrews, who mainly used the instrument in religious contexts.
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic/acid rock drum playing, heavy metal drummers play with emphatic beats, and overall loudness using an aggressive performing style.
The system is flexible and can be embellished to include more information (such as chord color or to denote a bass note in an inverted chord).
A solo singer can accompany themself by playing guitar or piano while they sing, and in some rare cases, a solo singer can even accompany themself just using their voice and body (e.g., Bobby McFerrin).
It is held in the hand and can be played in numerous ways, from stroking or shaking the jingles to striking it sharply with hand.
Montgomery was also possibly the first to record with the electric bass, in a session on July 2, 1953, with the Art Farmer Septet.
A standard cabinet used by bassists during this era was the heavy 8x10 cabinet, which contains eight ten-inch speakers.
Riq The riq (also spelled riqq or rik) is a type of tambourine used as a traditional instrument in Arabic music.
These hybrids also require an amplifier and sound module, of which some models have said module mounted inside the acoustic instrument along with the reeds.
However, in a jazz context, particularly in music from the 1940s bebop era and later decades, dominant chords were no longer treated as "unstable" chords.
A trigger pad could contain up to four independent sensors, each of them capable of sending information describing the timing and dynamic intensity of a stroke to the drum module/brain.
Assembly The steel-string acoustic guitar evolved from the gut-string Romantic guitar, and because steel strings have higher tension, heavier construction is required overall.
Materials for necks are selected for dimensional stability and rigidity, and some allege that they influence tone.
By 1957, the Precision Bass began to resemble the Fender Stratocaster with the body edges beveled for comfort and the pickup changed to a separate halves split coil design.
Some guitars (such as Steinbergers) do not have headstocks at all, in which case the tuning machines are located elsewhere, either on the body or the bridge.
The body is large and the waist of the guitar is not as pronounced as the auditorium and grand concert bodies.
Synthesizer-like instruments emerged in the United States in the mid-20th century with instruments such as the RCA Mark II, which was controlled with punch cards and used hundreds of vacuum tubes.
Weinstein observes that the wide array of sonic effects available to metal drummers enables the "rhythmic pattern to take on a complexity within its elemental drive and insistency".
The 1935 sales catalog for Tutmarc's company Audiovox featured the "Model 736 Bass Fiddle", a solid body electric bass guitar with four strings, a 30+1⁄2-inch (775-millimetre) scale length, and a single pickup.
Computer based software, such as Modartt's 2006 Pianoteq, can be used to manipulate the MIDI stream in real time or subsequently to edit it.
The first commercial electronic drum was the Pollard Syndrum, released by Pollard Industries in 1976.
With a capo on the first fret, the guitarist can finger the shape of the open A minor chord, but the result will be a B♭ minor chord.
Martin: steel strings and the increasing of the guitar top area; the popularity of Martin's larger "dreadnought" body size among acoustic performers is related to the greater sound volume produced.
The most common type is often called a flat top guitar, to distinguish it from the more specialized archtop guitar and other variations.
Roles In modern rock music, a rhythm guitarist specializes in rhythmic and chordal playing (as opposed to the melodic guitar solos and lead melody lines played by the lead guitar), often repeating quaver (eighth-note), half note or whole note chords.
Fills vary from a simple few strokes on a tom or snare to a distinctive rhythm played on the hi-hat, to sequences several bars long that are short virtuosic drum solos.
The tambourines of this era often had a circular hole in the frame for the thumb, as one of the moves was to spin the tambourine on the upright thumb.
Musical roles The drums and bass both supply a rhythmic pulse for the music, and the bass instrument supplies a harmonic foundation with a bassline.
For example, an electric guitar can be purchased in a six-string model (the most common model) or in seven- or twelve-string formats.
A sequence of several chords in a single measure is notated by underlining the desired chord numbers.
This was again at the request of bassist Anthony Jackson, who later asked Vinnie Fodera and Joey Lauricella of Fodera Guitars to build several instruments according to his ideas.
Configuration In addition to the six playing strings, most electric sitars have sympathetic strings, typically located on the left side of the instrument (though some do not have these).
The typical locations for inlay are on the fretboard, headstock, and on acoustic guitars around the soundhole, known as the rosette.
In sample-based synthesis, instead of sounds being created by synthesizers, samples (digital recordings of sounds) are played back and shaped with components such as filters, envelopes and LFOs.
Note that this is not a complete list of compound intervals, only those that are commonly used in jazz chords.
Death metal uses extremely fast drumming, often with rapid double bass drumming and "wall of sound"–style blast beats.
These resonance interactions attenuate or amplify the sound at different frequencies, boosting or damping various harmonic tones.
Pet Shop Boys used an offstage keyboardist at a 1991 concert Avenged Sevenfold uses offstage keyboards.
The vibration of the body of the instrument and the enclosed hollow or chamber make the vibration of the string more audible to the performer and audience.
Lyres with wooden bodies and strings used for plucking or playing with a bow represent key instruments that point towards later harps and violin-type instruments; moreover, Indian instruments from 500 BC have been discovered with anything from 7 to 21 strings.
Although called a contrabass guitar, the fact that it is tuned only an octave lower than a normal guitar makes it—in modern terminology—more an acoustic bass guitar than a contrabass instrument.
In jazz, comping (an abbreviation of accompaniment; or possibly from the verb, to "complement") is the chords, rhythms, and countermelodies that bassists, keyboard players (piano or organ), guitar players, or drummers use to support a musician's improvised solo or melody lines.
The bass guitar, also known as the electric bass, is the lowest-pitched member of the guitar family.
Drums Judas Priest used an offstage drummer playing electronic drums and triggering samples, while the official drummer played onstage.
Auditorium – Similar in dimensions to the dreadnought body shape, but with a much more pronounced waist.
They theorize that a decrease in the content of hemicellulose, crystallization of cellulose, and changes to lignin over time all result in its wood gaining better resonating properties.
The term rhythm section may also refer to the instruments in this group (named collectively the "rhythm section instruments").
However, the electric bass made a big impact on jazz in the 1970s, with the advent of jazz rock and jazz fusion.
Simmons drums are often viewed somewhat nostalgically by those who began to experiment with these early forays into electronic drums and percussion.
Like other electronic instruments, such as synthesizer keyboards, digital accordions or their sound modules are usually plugged into a keyboard amplifier and speaker or a PA system for live shows (or directly into a mixing board for recording).
Development of the vibrato system took place during the early 1940s, and was put into production shortly after the end of World War II.
The Nashville Number System is a trick that musicians use to figure out chord progressions on the fly.
Roles Some offstage performers are hired solely to play one or more instruments (e.g., synthesizer, rhythm guitar, percussion).
For a period, the Moog was banned from use in union work, a restriction negotiated by the American Federation of Musicians (AFM).
In 1978, Sequential Circuits released the Prophet-5, which used microprocessors to allow users to store sounds for the first time.
While the notes of a G7 chord are G–B–D–F, jazz often omits the fifth of the chord—and even the root if playing in a group.
Many exotic arrangements and connectors exist that support features such as midi and hexaphonic pickups.
Common extensions beyond these standard configurations include: Effects cymbals, particularly splash cymbals and china cymbals Double bass drums.
For that reason, ebony wood is better, but because of high use, ebony has become rare and extremely expensive.
The electric bass player can play all of the same types of bass lines played by its upright bass cousin.
The last B-3 and C-3 organs manufactured were built from leftover parts, and are not considered as good as earlier models.
To achieve a stylistic correct sound the accompaniment pattern should remind or imitate the original version using similar rhythms and patterns.
In 1979, Elka, an Italian organ and accordion company, developed the Elkavox and the Iorio Accorgan, both of which are electronic accordions.
Black metal, death metal and some "mainstream metal" bands "all depend upon double-kicks and blast beats".
In a heavy metal song where the bassist was ordinarily playing low notes without overdrive to accompany, for a solo, they may turn on a fuzz bass pedal and use a wah pedal to create a more pronounced tone (an approach used by Cliff Burton), and then play an upper register riff or scale run.
Modern pop, rock and jazz band rhythm sections typically consist of a drummer, a bass player, and one or more players of chordal instruments (e.g., a pianist, guitarist, etc.).
Just as with simple chords, the numbers refer to scale degrees; specifically, the scale degree number used for the bass note is that of the note's position in the tonic's scale (as opposed to, for example, that of its position in the scale of the chord being played).
In most traditional and popular music styles, the bass player is expected to be able to improvise a bassline which they base in the chord progression of a song.
In jazz organ trios, a Hammond organ player performs the basslines using the bass pedalboard or their lower manual, along with a drummer and a saxophonist.
As well, for offstage backup singers, they may be provided with a teleprompter video screen, which scrolls the lyrics down the screen.
The Persian poet Rudaki, who widely used names of the musical instruments in his poems, mentions the daf and the tambourine (taboorak) in a Ruba'i: A common use of tambourine (Daf) is by Albanians.
Goïlav, Yoan, La contrebasse: Une philosophie du jeu, histoire, pédagogie, technique / The Double Bass: A Philosophy of Playing, History, Pedagogy, Technique.
Fahey contemporary Robbie Basho added elements of Indian classical music and Leo Kottke used a Faheyesque approach to make the first solo steel-string guitar "hit" record.
Side snares are used, similarly to effects cymbals, when an additional and different sound is required.
Strap buttons are sometimes replaced with "strap locks", which connect the guitar to the strap more securely.
External pedals can be plugged into the Scandalli EWA, such as a sustain pedal, or pedals to control transposition or portamento/pitch glide effects.
A minor eleventh chord (A−11, Amin11, Ami11, or Am11) contains the notes: root, ♭3, 5, 7, (9), 11, (13).
As well, jazz compers may use altered chords that contain flattened or sharpened 5ths, sharp 11ths, flat or sharpened 9ths, and flat 13ths for some songs or soloists.
The Beach Boys (in "All I Wanna Do") Steely Dan (in "Do It Again") The 1971 album Somethin' Else recorded by Danny Davis and the Nashville Brass prominently featured an electric sitar, a first for the country music industry.
It is an electronically amplified version of the double bass that has a minimal or 'skeleton' body, which greatly reduces the size and weight of the instrument.
Farfisa made reed organs using pressurized air (e.g., Microrgan and Pianorgan) and developed the first transistor accordion, the Farfisa Transicord.
Torres' design greatly improved the volume, tone, and projection of the instrument, and it has remained essentially unchanged since.
If one wire vibrates out of synchronization with the other, they subtract from each other and produce a softer tone of longer duration.
So if the song was in G minor, the key would be listed as B♭ major, and G minor chords would appear as 6−.
Notation and improvisation The accompaniment instrumentalists and/or singers can be provided with a fully notated accompaniment part written or printed on sheet music.
With an amplifier and equalization devices, a bass player can boost the low frequencies, evening out the frequency response.
Modern jazz comping goes with more space, mostly on rhythmical interesting moments and it don't have the continual playing of trad.
In music festivals with outdoor temporary stages, the backline equipment may have to be transported to a locked, climate-controlled storage area at the end of each day, to protect it from theft, vandalism and the weather.
Some instruments have chin switches to change registers, programs, or act like a sustain pedal and provide other functions without taking the hands off the instrument.
On organs, the bass line is typically played using the pedal keyboard and massive 16' and 32' bass pipes.
Six strings The six-string double bass has both a high C and a low B, making it very useful, and it is becoming more practical after several updates.
Like acoustic drums, the pads are struck by drum sticks and they are played in a similar manner to an acoustic drum kit, albeit with some differences in the drumming experience.
Electric guitar design and construction varies greatly in the shape of the body and the configuration of the neck, bridge, and pickups.
Most of the older 5-course guitars were still in use but were also being modified to a six-coursed acoustical guitar.
The Nashville Number System is a method of transcribing music by denoting the scale degree on which a chord is built.
Vihuelas were string instruments that were commonly seen in the 16th century during the Renaissance.
The earliest known existing concertos are by Carl Ditters von Dittersdorf, who composed two concertos for the double bass and a Sinfonia Concertante for viola and double bass.
These expensive, custom-tailored instruments, as used by Phil Lesh, Jack Casady, and Stanley Clarke, featured unique designs, premium hand-finished wood bodies, and innovative construction techniques such as multi-laminate neck-through-body construction and graphite necks.
Classical and flamenco guitars historically used gut strings, but these have been superseded by polymer materials, such as nylon and fluorocarbon.
This tradition developed from the origins of New Orleans music in marching bands, which used instruments that could be carried on harnesses or with straps.
Some of the most important varieties are the classical guitar (Spanish Guitar/Nylon-stringed), steel-string acoustic guitar and Colombian tiple.
It may have a small amplifier and small loudspeakers incorporated so that it can be used at jam sessions without plugging into a PA system.
This allows the sound engineer to use a higher overall volume for the drum kit by reducing the number of "active" mics which could produce unwanted feedback at any one time.
Electronic drums are an electronic musical instrument that replicates the sound and appearance of a drum kit or other percussion instruments.
In popular music and traditional music, the accompaniment parts typically provide the "beat" for the music and outline the chord progression of the song or instrumental piece.
Outside of the United States, they were manufactured in greater numbers than the consoles, and hence were more widely used.
Challenges For offstage musicians and singers, playing and/or singing in tune and in time with the onstage performers can be challenging, since the offstage musicians are not in the same location as the onstage performers.
If a soloist starts implying a certain style or feel in his solo, whether this is Afro-Cuban music or hard-driving swing, the entire rhythm section may shift to this style to support him.
The Clash (in "Armagideon Time" and "Charlie Don't Surf") Eddie Van Halen (on "Ain't Talkin' 'bout Love" and "Primary") Rory Gallagher (in "Philby") Gary Wilson, on the 1977 album You Think You Really Know Me.
The introduction of the double-coil humbucker in the mid-1950s solved this problem through the use of two coils, one of which is wired in opposite polarity to cancel or "buck" stray fields.
Jaco Pastorius is considered to be one of the most well known exponents of jazz on the electric bass, through his work with Weather Report, Joni Mitchell, and Pat Metheny among others.
A few models, such as the Jerry Jones "Baby" sitar, lack both sympathetic and drone strings, while still retaining the distinctive buzz bridge.
It is mostly used in Carnatic music concerts (South Indian classical music) as a supporting instrument for the mridangam.
Other strings When composers instruct string section players (violin, viola, cello, double bass) to play double stops (two notes at once) or triple stops (three notes at once), they often include one or two open strings in the chord voicing, unless they are writing for a virtuoso soloist.
In jazz chords and theory, most triads that appear in lead sheets or fake books can have sevenths added to them, using the performer's discretion and ear.
Jazz chords are chords, chord voicings and chord symbols that jazz musicians commonly use in composition, improvisation, and harmony.
Propellerhead's Reason, released in 2000, introduced an array of recognizable virtual studio equipment.
Some guitarists, bassists and other stringed instrumentalists read accompaniment parts using tabulature (or "tab"), a notation system which shows the musician where on the instrument to play the notes.
45, ISBN 0-19-510232-0 Santerre, Joe (2001), Slap Bass Lines, ISBN 0-634-02144-3 External links "Bass Lines" (PDF).
Scale degrees and major chords The Nashville Number System (also referred to as NNS) is similar to (movable-do) Solfège, which uses "Do Re Mi Fa Sol La Tí" to represent the seven scale degrees of the Major scale.
watch me for the 2" The Nashville Number Fake Book by Trevor de Clercq – This book includes a detailed overview of the Nashville Number System as well as complete charts for 200 acclaimed country songs.
This voicing omits both the root and the perfect fifth (G) and raises the major ninth (D) by an octave.
Accompaniment is the musical part which provides the rhythmic and/or harmonic support for the melody or main themes of a song or instrumental piece.
Some bassists use both fretted and fretless basses in performances, according to the style of repertoire they are performing.
Motion capture kit Aerodrums is a motion capture system that allows a drummer to perform without a kit physically present.
Electronic amplification Most string instruments can be fitted with piezoelectric or magnetic pickups to convert the string's vibrations into an electrical signal that is amplified and then converted back into sound by loudspeakers.
Performance styles Many classical music composers, including Haydn, Mozart, Schubert and Beethoven, composed for the fortepiano, a rather different instrument than the modern piano.
Turning the truss rod clockwise tightens it, counteracting the tension of the strings and straightening the neck or creating a backward bow.
Although it is possible to play the chords as described here literally, it is possible to use different orderings of the same notes, known as a voicings, or even by omitting certain notes.
ISBN 9781457101441 External links Jazz Guitar Chord Dictionary Comprehensive overview of jazz chords for guitar The Jazz Resource Jazz chords and theory
Some songs lend themselves to another type of variation: the pedal point, in which the bassist holds or repeats a single note (often the tonic or the dominant) under the chord changes.
Gitterns (small, plucked guitars), were the first small, guitar-like instruments created during the Spanish Middle Ages with a round back, like that of the lute.
The motivation for this may be to reduce weight, to achieve a semi-acoustic tone (see below) or both.
They can be mounted, for example on a stand as part of a drum kit (and played with drum sticks), or they can be held in the hand and played by tapping, hitting, or shaking the instrument.
A 1980s-era dance pop band might be backed up by a rhythm section of a synth bass, electronic drums (or drum machine) and various synthesizer keyboards.
Even though electronic keyboards or organs were the standard instruments used to create sustained "pads" of sound (e.g., held backing chords) for ballads, with the introduction of digital delay pedals and other modern effects, electric guitars could produce similar "pads" or "walls of sound".
Many of the chordal alterations used in jazz are derived from minor scale modes, as opposed to the major scale modes.
A CCTV system may be set up, with cameras pointing at the stage, and TV monitors in the offstage performer area; this way, the offstage performers can see cues (head nods, hand signals) made by the lead singer or bandleader onstage.
Broadway musicals such as Jersey Boys and Rock of Ages use hidden backstage singers in vocal booths to sing harmony vocals to fill out the sound, without "crowding the stage" with extra performers.
Proponents of the use of German bow claim that the German bow is easier to use for heavy strokes that require a lot of power.
Comping musicians must know many different types of chord voicings so that they can match the mood the soloist is trying to create.
Sympathetic strings Some instruments are employed with sympathetic strings—which are additional strings not meant to be plucked.
Nepal also has a variety of tambourines, going by the names daanf, damphu (Nepali: डम्फू), hring, and khaijadi (Nepali: खैंजडी).
Nomenclature Intervals Each chord is described as a series of intervallic relationships to the root of the chord.
In theory any instrument or instruments can provide a steady rhythm: for example, in the trio led by Jimmy Giuffre the late 1950s, the clarinet, valve trombone and guitar all switched between lead and supporting roles.
The degree to which the choice of woods and other materials in the solid-guitar body (3) affects the sonic character of the amplified signal is disputed.
A group of graduate students in Boulder, Colorado, established an International Bacon Day celebration.
Goose confit is associated with the Béarn and Basque regions with their classic specialties of cassoulet and garbure, hearty and earthy dishes of confit and beans.
Before switching to vegetable oil with beef flavoring in 1990, McDonald's cooked its French fries in a mixture of 93% beef tallow and 7% cottonseed oil.
Baconnaise is a bacon-flavored, mayonnaise-based food spread that is ovo vegetarian and kosher certified.
Bacon bits are made from small, crumbled pieces of bacon; in commercial plants they are cooked in continuous microwave ovens.
Dry-cured Traditional dry cure hams may use only salt as the curative agent, although this is comparatively rare.
It is a particular speciality of delis serving Montreal-style smoked meat, where slices of the fatty cut are served in sandwiches on rye bread with mustard, sometimes in combination with other, leaner cuts.
Uses Since this piece generally consists of much skin, tendons and ligaments, it requires long cooking through stewing or braising to be made palatable.
Salumi (sg.: salume, pronounced [saˈluːme]) are Italian meat products typical of an antipasto, predominantly made from pork and cured.
Meats and other ingredients A variety of fresh meats may be used for making sausage, the most common are from beef, pork, lamb, chicken, turkey, and game.
International usage United States and territories Domestically, Spam's chief advantages were affordability, accessibility, and extended shelf life.
In a 1665 letter to the Director of New Netherland from the Island of Curaçao there is a request to send greens: "I request most amicably that your honors be pleased to send me seed of every sort, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, etc.
However, due to the use of saltpeter in food being banned, the modern approach is using German pork knuckles.
Besides the domestic manually or motor operated grinders, there are also grinders for butchery (table- or shop-grinders for example) and for the food industry.
Soppressata di Calabria enjoys protected designation of origin (PDO) status; the one produced in Acri and Decollatura is especially renowned.
When used, the recommended amount is a ratio of 4 oz for each 100 lb (1 kg for each 400 kg) of meat or 0.25% of the total weight of the meat.
In the second, the body circulates from the doorstep of a neighbour, to a horse, to the house of a peasant, to a sack, and into the hands of thieves who have stolen some bacon.
Sheep/lamb and hog are available in all packaging types due to the high demand and long length of pieces; due to the shorter length and much lower demand for beef casings they are primarily only available loose or in net packs either salted or in brine.
Confit country is divided roughly into regions where one type of meat predominates the confit preparations.
The Honey Baked Ham Company is a food retailer which sells hams, turkey breasts, and other pre-cooked entrées, side dishes, and desserts.
In southern parts of Italy such as Sicily, where fish are a more plentiful element of cuisine, involtini can sometimes be made with fish such as swordfish.
In 2012, a major change was made from the "all you can eat" bacon, which was included in the ticket price from years earlier, to a pay as you eat price structure.
Description For the price of an admission ticket, each attendee has been entitled to a T-shirt, a choice of bacon samples, and a koozie (an insulation-wrapping for a canned beverage, like beer or soda pop).
The Spam Games also occur in Guam, where locals sample and honor the best original, homemade Spam recipes.
The earliest form of the meat grinder was hand-cranked and forced meat into a metal plate that had several small holes, resulting in long, thin strands of meat.
It has been labelled as smoked tea (熏茶), smoky souchong, tarry lapsang souchong and lapsang souchong crocodile.
Chicago-based IRI reported sales of charcuterie types of packaged lunch meats reached $561 million in 2019, up 8.1% from the previous year.
Younger motsetta is described to be more fresh and tender, with a higher degree of maturation the cold cut becomes harder and more robust in flavour, making the meat darker in colour as well.
There is a "clamoring" for the bacon happy hour at Bad Decisions bar in Fells Point which includes a menu that is completely redone with bacon dishes and big bowls of bacon served on the bar (using up to 30 pounds of bacon in a two-hour period).
Composition It is generally recommended to diversify the items on a charcuterie board in terms of type (e.g.
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
While deep frying typically takes place at temperatures of 160–230 °C (325–450 °F), confit preparations are done at a much lower temperature, such as an oil temperature of around 90 °C (200 °F), or sometimes even cooler.
Tour After having worked at the Festival, some of its entertainers formed the Blue Ribbon Bacon Tour.
1989 Leuconostoc falkenbergense Wu and Gu 2021 Leuconostoc fallax Martinez-Murcia and Collins 1992 "Leuconostoc garlicum" Kim et al.
They are served with the main meal menu in view either in hot, room temperature or cold forms; when served hot they are brought out after all the guests arrive so that everyone gets to taste the dishes.
Techniques The temperature of the environment affects how quickly the piece must be completed to avoid the effects of melting; if the sculpting does not take place in a cold environment, then the sculptor must work quickly to finish the piece.
Mexico In Mexico, most cecina is of two kinds: sheets of marinated beef, and a pork cut that is sliced or butterflied thin and coated with chili pepper (this type is called cecina enchilada or carne enchilada).
Health concerns Studies have consistently found the consumption of processed meat to be linked to increased mortality, and to an increased risk of developing a number of serious health conditions including cancer, cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.
When probiotic lactobacilli are administered along with the treatment as an adjuvant, its efficacy is substantially increased and side effects may be lessened.
It is prepared using the Tongcheng pig and has been described as "the most prized ham in all of China".
According to William Roscoe Estep, Zwingli already held Reformation-oriented convictions for some time before the incident.
The differences between Tyrolean speck and bacon include different time lengths of smoking, the technique of curing it, and the fact that Tyrolean speck cures for a longer period of time than bacon does.
"Confit country" is the area of Occitan France, where goose fat is used for cooking, as opposed to olive oil, which is used in Provence, where olives were plentiful and thus cheap.
Figs and dates may be transformed into different products that can either be eaten as they are, used in recipes, or rehydrated.
Gervais is pelted with hot coals by cooks, assaulted by the crowd of servants at the feast, and dragged outside and thrown in a ditch with a dead dog, which parallels the medieval practice of hanging with dogs.
See also Media related to Pitina at Wikimedia Commons List of dried foods List of smoked foods == References ==
After being marinated the meat is left to rest in a cool place for a varying amount of time: in the case of homemade motsetta, the meat is flavoured for up to 20 days.
Properties The quality of salami is dependent on the quality of the raw materials and the level of technology used in its production.
It served Northern Italian inspired cuisine, focusing primarily on charcuterie, pizza, and seafood and emphasizing dishes that are less well known.
In Maharashtra, especially in the northern Khandesh region, vangyache bharit (वांग्याचें भरीत) as they call it is served in social gatherings including wedding ceremonies.
Sour and spicy sauces are served on the side, especially a Hmong sauce made with Thai chilies called "pepper dip".
The exact conditions depend on which nitrogen oxides are used, and what the oxidant is, as the conditions need to be carefully controlled to avoid over oxidation of the nitrogen atom.
Lactobacilli characteristically cause existing carious lesions to progress, especially those in coronal caries.
The name Leuconostoc comes from Greek adjective leukos meaning clear; and the word nostoc gelatinous colonies, Leuconostoc - colorless nostoc.
A recipe for mumbar (stuffed intenstine) appears in the 19th century Ottoman cookbook Melceü't-Tabbâhîn.
The meal will usually be rounded out with various pickles (such as mango, lime, and lemon) as well as raita, a palate-cooling yogurt dish/condiment (similar to Greek tzatziki) with many forms, including mint, mango or cucumber preparations.
This term encompasses dishes like braciole (a roulade consisting of beef, pork or chicken usually filled with Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs and eggs) and saltimbocca.
While charcuterie boards are common appetizers in restaurants today, they continue to find popularity in private gatherings like house and dinner parties due to their ease of preparation.
Manufacturers developed powered machines as electricity became more accessible, and modern electric meat grinders can process several pounds of meat easily and uniformly.
When using cure, it is very important to never exceed the recommended amount of 2.5 grams of Prague powder #1 in 1 kilogram of meat (4 ounces/100 pounds).
Meat confit Confit of goose (confit d'oie) or duck (confit de canard) is usually prepared from the legs of the bird.
A garde manger (French: [gaʁd mɑ̃ʒe]) is a cool, well-ventilated area where savory cold dishes (such as salads, hors d'œuvres, appetizers, canapés, pâtés, and terrines) are prepared and other foods are stored under refrigeration.
Varieties Soppressata di Basilicata is mainly produced in Rivello, Cancellara, Vaglio, and Lagonegro.
Huldrych Zwingli, who was present during the event, later defended the act by arguing that fasting should be a matter of personal choice, as the Bible does not mandate abstaining from certain foods during Lent.
The recipe includes crumbled bacon strips, liquid rendered bacon fat, canola oil, egg yolks, and Dijon mustard with water and lemon juice.
Around the world Australia and New Zealand The most common form sold is middle bacon, which includes some of the streaky, fatty section of side bacon along with a portion of the loin of back bacon.
Mattha is similar to Chaas, which is also called chhanch or ghol, but spicier and is known as Mohi in Nepal.
Hurdle technology uses low doses of multiple food preservation techniques in order to ensure food is not only safe but is desirable visually and texturally.
Methods Ham is produced by curing raw pork by salting, also known as dry curing, or brining, also known as wet curing.
This sausage was introduced to Malaysia and Southern Thailand by Cham refugees who migrated from conflict-stricken Indochina during the 1970s.
Its manufacture varies depending on the skill and experience of the meat manufacturer rather than a process solely based on scientific and technological means of production.
Compared to traditional pork ham, turkey ham is typically lower in calories, total fat, and cholesterol, making it a popular choice for those seeking lower-fat or pork-free alternatives.
See also Erk al sous Kharoub Qamar Al Deen Tamr Hindi Levantine cuisine References External links Media related to Jallab at Wikimedia Commons
Mattha (Bhojpuri: 𑂧𑂰𑂘𑂰, romanized: Māthā, Bengali: মাঠা, romanized: Māṭhā, Hindi: मट्ठा, romanized: Maṭṭhā) is a beverage that originates from the Indian subcontinent.
Hmong sausage is typically grilled at a low heat and served as large slices with steamed white rice or purple sticky rice (another signature Hmong dish), pan-fried with blanched cabbage, or with pho soup.
According to tradition, they are prepared in the dry season around December–March and consumed in greater quantities during the monsoon/wet season, when fish is scarce.
The main advantage of IC is its ease and the simultaneous analysis of all the anions present in the aqueous sample.
Types by method of application Cold smoking Cold smoking differs from hot smoking in that it does not cook anything; when cold smoking is finished, the food is still raw.
The sausage is often made at home; however it has become increasingly brought at markets and even supermarkets.
See also List of meat substitutes Vegetarian hot dogs Vegetarian sausage Meat-free sausage roll Food portal == References ==
Regulations In the European Union, the labelling of pancetta is regulated under the protected designation of origin (PDO) regime.
Pellicles of protein that form prior to smoking meat (including fish and poultry) allow smoke to better adhere to the surface of the meat during the smoking process.
Choris-Pão has the sausages chopped (sometimes with onions and a dash of curry) and placed inside a Poi or the local bun, a chewier form of the western Indian Pav, and is a popular fast food sold by vendors during religious fairs or in cafés.
While another theory suggests the name came from a Turkish Cypriot street vendor called "Şef Ali" (Chef Ali), who sold a kebab called "Şef Ali kebabı,"(Chef Ali's Kebab), which eventually became "Şeftali kebabı" and then Sheftalia.
The traditional means, referred to as Zheng Shan Xiao Zhong, is to entirely process the leaves within the smoke house, equivalent to a cold smoke, though most of the smoke flavouring is instilled during the final drying phase.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
National competition The national organization of butchers, Slavakto, organizes a competition to determine the best Zeeuws spek in the country.
Nitrite-containing processed meat is associated with increased risk of developing colorectal cancer.
The Goan sausage is therefore of Iberian origin and related to the Spanish Chorizo, both of which go through a process called pimenton.
Along with hardtack and corned beef, salt pork was a standard ration for many militaries and navies throughout the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, seeing usage in the American Civil War, War of 1812, and the Napoleonic Wars, among others.
Its origin has been placed in either Tijuana or Hermosillo, as the Sonoran hot dog where it was originally served in a bolillo instead of a hot dog bun.
In addition, implementation of many further processing steps by concentration, dilution, distillation, extraction, and use of food additives has led to the many hundreds of different products on the market worldwide.
Prior to the British East Indian Company's adoption of the terms black and green to categorize teas, the tea leaves coming from the Wuyi Mountains area were referred to as bohea, with souchong (小种) referring to a different grade.
Typically, a sausage is formed in a casing traditionally made from intestine, but sometimes from synthetic materials.
In some areas it is called studen' (студень) or studenets (Ukrainian: студенець, romanized: studenets), derived from a different root with a similar meaning.
Hard-boiled eggs, bacon, shrimp, and cheeses may be used as garnishes, but large amounts of animal-based foods would be more likely in a dinner salad.
Smith, in his 2006 book The Turkey: An American Story, notes that turkey products (including turkey bacon) contain, on average, twice as much sodium as the pork products that they replace.
Medication impurities There have been recalls for various medications due to the presence of nitrosamine impurities.
Since then, bacon-focused events and gatherings celebrating the food have been reported and bacon-related exploits have been featured in the media.
In the Mid-Atlantic States, in rural regions settled by the Pennsylvania Dutch, hocks are a commonly used ingredient for making a kind of meat loaf called scrapple.
The Portland Monthly noted that "Bacon is such a quintessential breakfast staple, even vegetarians stake a claim to their own versions." A website called "Bacon Today" was started to provide updates about bacon related happenings.
Dipping products in diluted solutions or soaking them in brines containing liquid smoke followed by heating was done long before the modern industrial era using Wright's liquid smoke and pyroligneous acid precursors.
In nouvelle cuisine, which shifted the standard food presentation approach from larger platters to individually pre-portioned plates, the garde manger is often responsible for arranging food decoratively on the plates.
Around January 1980, the American Meat Institute tried to ban use of the term "turkey ham" for products that are composed solely of turkey and contain no pork.
Because of interferences with the brown color of dissolved organic matter (DOM: humic and fulvic acids) often present in soil pore water, artefacts can easily affect the absorbance values.
The meat is then separated from the bones, minced, recombined with the broth, dressed with the slices of boiled egg and herbs like parsley and cooled until it solidifies into a jelly.
It is often added to soups, such as pea and ham soup, with the meat being added to the soup prior to serving.
Common sides to accompany the Texas hot link include sliced white bread, crackers, orange cheese, onion slices and pickles.
Dyeing In Japan, the extract of smoked plums (ubai) is used as a mordant for the natural red dye derived from safflower (benibana).
In comparison with standard bacon, which is prepared with pork, the product is naturally lower in fat and calories and is commonly marketed for these qualities.
In Russia, the pâté is served on a plate or in a bowl, and is typically moulded into the shapes of animals, such as hedgehogs.
They are sometimes served as appetizers or as an ingredient in the preparation of various dishes and appetizers.
Jallab or jellab (Arabic: جلاب, romanized: jallāb) is a type of fruit syrup popular in the Levant made from carob, dates, grape molasses, and rose water.
The author says that only two couples successfully claimed the flitch in a century: The first was a sea captain and his wife, who since the day of their marriage had not seen each other till the day of the claim.
Varieties There are numerous varieties of French pâtés or terrines, including: Parfait Chicken liver parfait is a subtype of pâté.
Infused smoked salts like smoked bacon chipotle sea salt are very popular because of their flavor profiles.
Dehydration has been used widely for this purpose since ancient times; the earliest known practice is 12,000 B.C.
Some chefs and recipes utilise seasonal mashed pumpkin, squash or sweet potato for added thickness and flavour.
In 2019, the company launched its 'Beyond Burger 2.0', which was a 'meatier' design with less saturated fat than the original product.
A notable sandwich with Zeeuws spek is made in Vermaat restaurant, in IJsselstein; Ronald van der Kruk uses Zeeuws spek, bacon, katenspek (bacon which is boiled before it is smoked), and ontbijtspek ("breakfast bacon").
Speck can refer to a number of European cured pork products, typically salted and air-cured and often lightly smoked but not cooked.
Other Swedish sausages include prinskorv, fläskkorv, köttkorv and isterband; all of these, in addition to falukorv, are often accompanied by potato mash or rotmos (a root vegetable mash) rather than bread.
History Mombar originated in Ottoman cuisine, and eventually spread into Iraqi, Egyptian, and Levantine cuisine.
It is made with minced beef and tallow, marinated with garlic, salt, chillies and spices, and stuffed into cow's or buffalo's small intestines.
Hams can only be labeled "honey-cured" if honey was at least 50% of the sweetener used, is at least 3% of the formula, and has a discernible effect on flavour.
For example, in Du provost a l'aumuche a provost hides some bacon that he has stolen from a feast prepared for his master under his hat (the "aumuche" of the title, a large fur hat), but is caught and beaten after the bacon fat, melted by a nearby fire, starts to drip down his head.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
Curing is done using a spice and salt mixture containing nitrates or nitrites, which act to extend the shelf life of cured meats.
The Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America states that the product was intended to increase the sale of pork shoulder, a cut which did not sell well.
Leuconostoc is a genus of gram-positive bacteria, placed within the family of Leuconostocaceae, order Lactobacillales.
The Zurich sausage affair was interpreted as a demonstration of Christian liberty and is considered to be of similar importance for Switzerland as Martin Luther's 95 theses in Wittenberg for the German Reformation.
Boiled bacon is ready-to-eat, as is some smoked bacon, but they may be cooked further before eating.
One of the Tour's regular participants, Heather Lauer, appeared on the 2009 Tour's stop in Pittsburgh; there, for thirty dollars, participants could compete in a bacon-eating contest and (without additional cost) taste bacon-samples from vendors.
These are mainly spices and condiments, with an increasing segment of fresh fruit irradiated for fruit fly quarantine.
Slovenia In Slovenia, aspic is known as žolca (derived from the German sülze, meaning head cheese) or tlačenka in Slovene.
These may be made from tofu, seitan, nuts, pulses, mycoprotein, soya protein, vegetables or any combination of similar ingredients that will hold together during cooking.
This was followed by the introduction of a sausage-links version in the USA in October 2020 and Canada in September 2021.
Analysis of nitrite Nitrite is detected and analyzed by the Griess Reaction, involving the formation of a deep red-colored azo dye upon treatment of a NO−2-containing sample with sulfanilic acid and naphthyl-1-amine in the presence of acid.
This guild system was eliminated by Napoléon Bonaparte around the time of the turn of the 19th century.
At the time, the months-long journey from China to Europe necessitated preservation methods and the partial oxidation of this Wuyi tea, an oolong tea graded as bohea or souchong, was better able to preserve its quality.
Job requirements As with most hands-on cooking positions, a garde manger chef needs fine motor skills and physical stamina, as well as cooking skills and knowledge of food safety.
Founded by members of the Iowa Bacon Board, the festival sold 200 tickets to the first festival in 2008.
History The preserving of pork leg as ham has a long history, with traces of production of cured ham among the Etruscan civilisation known in the 6th and 5th century BC.
Another common type of pâté in Jewish cuisine, also popular in Russia and Ukraine, is vorschmack, or gehakte herring (chopped herring).
Preparation and serving Tung lamaow is made using specific cuts of beef, primarily the tougher thigh muscle, as well as fat from the cow's stomach lining and intestines.
Caesar salad, chef salad, Cobb salad, Chinese chicken salad, Michigan salad, and Pittsburgh salad are dinner salads.
Since different species of trees have different ratios of components, various types of wood do impart a different flavor to food.
This status is assigned only to selected products obtained according to traditional methods and in specific geographical areas.
Religious restrictions on pork The popularity of turkey bacon is also attributed to the fact that pork consumption is not permissible in Judaism and Islam, nor among Christian sects that consider Jewish law to still be binding.
Other methods There are many different methods for drying, each with its own advantages for particular applications.
It is the most common cut of bacon used in British and Irish cuisine, where both smoked and unsmoked varieties of bacon are found.
City ham is the name for a variety of brine-cured hams that are not dry-cured or dried, so must be refrigerated for safe storage.
Potassium nitrite and potassium nitrate additions allow the production of sausages with lower levels of sodium.
The best known cecina is Cecina de León, which is made of the hind legs of a cow, salted, smoked and air-dried in the provinces of León and Palencia in northwestern Spain, and has PGI status.
They may also be cooked in a wide variety of non-pottery terrine moulds, such as stainless steel, aluminium, enameled cast iron, and ovenproof plastic.
Meduna was one of several Friulian entrepreneurs who adapted Italian culinary tradition and created a new market and industry for salami.
Sheftalia (locally [ʃeftaˈʎa]; Greek: σεφταλιά; Turkish: Şeftali Kebabı) is a traditional sausage that originated in Cyprus.
This line of quotation stems from American poet John Godfrey Saxe, who said "Laws, like sausages, cease to inspire respect in proportion as we know how they are made" (1869).
Additionally, turkey bacon serves as a substitute for standard bacon in cases where pork consumption is forbidden by religious doctrine, such as Judaism and Islam.
Nutritional value Two strips (around 28 grams or 1 ounce) of Butterball-made turkey bacon contain 3 grams of fat and 50 calories (32% of which from fat); turkey bacon produced from Louis Rich and Mr.
Limosilactobacillus reuteri has been used as a model organism to evaluate the host-adaptation of lactobacilli to the human and animal intestine and for the recruitment of intestinal lactobacilli for food fermentations.
A scallop is a common name applied to many species of marine bivalve mollusks in the family Pectinidae, the scallops.
Their herds of sheep and pigs were so many, they could provide skins and salt meat not only for Rome, but also for most of Italy.
The smoke shed has several upper floors or lofts made of wooden slats where leaves can be laid out, allowing batches to be closer or farther from the source heat and smoke.
Other cuisines In Moroccan cuisine, paprika (tahmira) is much used in dishes such as bissara and chermoula.
See also Vallée d'Aoste Lard d'Arnad References External links Lardo in the online Culinary Heritage of Switzerland database.
Its popularity among Filipinos has led to the creation of a version with sugar and annatto—Spam with tocino seasoning, made for the overseas Filipino market in the US and Canada.
His first rift with the established religious authorities in Switzerland occurred during the Lenten fast of 1522, when he was present during the eating of sausages at the house of Christoph Froschauer, a printer in the city who later published Zwingli's translation of the Bible.
Moreover, these meals evolved and found their way to higher society with the cheese course of formal dinners in 18th and 19th century France, Great Britain, and colonial America.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, especially game, including venison and pheasant, and may also be used to insulate or flavour roast joints by being layered onto the meat.
Following the March 2011 earthquake, Spam sales in Japan declined, and Hormel shifted its focus to China, although Hormel did pledge to donate $100,000 along with cans of Spam for relief efforts.
The sausages are also crumbled or cut and added to curries, stews, chilly fry (a sautée of vegetables and meat, usually beef), and pulão or pulav for flavour and animal protein in Goan households.
In the Appalachian Mountains, it is common to add ham hocks along with chopped onion and spices to pots of pinto beans to make the meal more hearty.
Cured cooked sausages Cured sausages differ from fresh sausages by including 2 teaspoons of cure (Prague powder #1) per 10 pounds of finished product.
Beyond meats, cheeses, and breads, other components are often included to complement the flavors and textures of these foods.
Smoked salt differs from smoke-flavored salt, as the latter contains a smoke-flavored additive, and is not classified as a natural salt product.
Canned adobo sauce is the most common form in the United States of America, though its marinade or food preservative form originated in Spain.
The fruit is spherical or oblate, around 2–3 centimetres (0.79–1.18 in) long and 1.5–2 centimetres (0.59–0.79 in) in diameter.
Other Friulian butchers followed suit in the seasonal production of winter salami, including the Del Medico brothers, the Guglielmini, Suberca, Molinari, Boschetti, Forgiarini, Dozzi, Vidoni and Venturini.
Ham hocks are essential ingredients for the distinct flavor in soul food and other forms of American Southern country cooking.
A hot link (also "red link", "Louisiana red hot" or "Louisiana hot link") is a type of sausage used in the cuisine of the Southern United States, and a part of American barbecue, soul food, and Cajun and Louisiana Creole cuisines.
There is no standard recipe for Hmong sausage, but the key ingredients are coarse ground fatty pork cuts such as pork belly and pork shoulder, Thai chili peppers, lemongrass, kaffir lime leaf or lime juice, and fresh ginger root or galangal.
The local variety of chistorra available in the province of León is called Chistorra de León and is made with a larger percentage of beef.
The earliest surviving record of the flitch being awarded, from the cartulary of Dunmow Priory, dates to 1445, some time after the custom was mentioned by Langland and Chaucer.
The term is usually used in modern cuisine to mean long, slow cooking in fat at low temperatures, many having no element of preservation, such as in dishes like confit potatoes.
Nitric oxide can be created de novo from nitric oxide synthase utilizing arginine or from ingested nitrite.
These are minced together, then stuffed in large sausage casings and smoked, creating a soft large sausage, which is then aged for 3–6 months.
This minced beef is then combined with fat in a 1:5 ratio, creating a rich mixture that is packed into cleaned cow intestines.
Poland In Central, Eastern, and Northern Europe, aspic often takes the form of pork jelly and is popular around the Christmas and Easter holidays.
Salo is often chopped into small pieces and fried to render fat for cooking, while the remaining shkvarky (a type of cracklings) are used as condiments for fried potatoes or varenyky or spread on bread as a snack.
With the development of classical French cuisine under the influence of François Pierre La Varenne and his 1651 book Le cuisinier françois, the garde manger also took on fresh fruits and vegetables.
Each year, at the festival, Hans Mantinger "Gletscherhons", a master in the art of slicing speck, presents his surprise creations.
It is usually baked, fried or grilled and often accompanies other dishes, sometimes as part of tapas.
See also Salt pork Szalonna, Hungarian salt pork Lardo, Italian salt pork Charcuterie Notes References Further reading Viktoriya Popovych, There Is No Ukraine Without Salo: An Analysis of the Cultural and Social Significance of Salo in Ukraine, Compass, 2023, vol 3, issue 1, pp.
Notable Japanese ice sculptors include Yukio Matsuo, author of "Ice Sculpture: Secrets of a Japanese Master," Mitsuo Shimizu, author of several Japanese books on ice sculpture, and Junichi Nakamura, winner of multiple world ice sculpting titles.
Blamed for causing the 'stink' when creating a sourdough starter, some species are also capable of causing human infection.
In cuisine As an ingredient, fatback is a preferred fat for various forms of charcuterie, particularly sausages and forcemeats for pâtés and terrines.
It is made from caul fat, or omentum, the membrane that surrounds the stomach of pig or lamb, to wrap the ingredients rather than sausage casing.
Lardo di Colonnata is included in the Ark of Taste catalog of heritage foods and has been a protected geographical indication (PGI) since 2004.
He was a member of the Hungarian Armed Forces Association and one of the founders of the Hungarian Industry Association.
In 1964, he graduated from UC-Davis with a degree in winemaking and grape growing, and a mission to find an appropriate place to grow Pinot noir outside of Burgundy.
King set up a business in "King Street" Sydney, including glass and other merchandise that he had brought with him.
Local authorities The local administration in Qana is headed by a Municipal Council composed of 15 members and headed by Dr.
He passed the final period of the Spanish Civil War in 1939 working in an airplane factory, helping construct Polikarpov planes for the aerial forces of General Francisco Franco.
However, the 1838 census records the exceptionally wealthy Gligore as an ethnic Romanian and a squire (fecior de neam), meaning he could trace his lineage to the highest-ranking boyars, and enjoyed boyar privilege.
James King (1800 – 29 November 1857) was a Scottish-Australian who was important in the establishment of the wine industry in Australia.
delbrueckii species has been domesticated for winemaking and other human uses about 1900 and 4000 years ago respectively.
See also List of Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée wines Wine label History of Wine French wine Footnotes References J.
Irvine became influential in the wine business in the Great Western area, buying two thirds of local produce in the early 1890s and distilling a considerable amount into brandy.
Prince Juan Jorge de Bagration-Mukhrani (born 18 August 1977) is a Spanish-born Georgian prince and member of the House of Mukhrani of the Bagrationi dynasty and a distant relation to the Spanish royal family.
Dubourdieu specialized in winemaking processes for white wines, and has been called "wine's most famous scientist".
Amy and her husband Joel are partners in Palisades Wine Company in Calistoga where they make their wines.
Champagne's AOC also requires vintage Champagnes age 3 years before disgorgement, but most top producers hold bottles on lees for 6–8 years.
Disgorging The lees removal process is called disgorging (dégorgement in French), traditionally a skilled manual process where the crown cap and lees are removed without losing much of the liquid, and a varying amount of sugar added.
In 1949, he gave one of his red wines to Émile Peynaud, a French oenologist who was collaborating with Casa Ferreirinha at the time.
Moreover, Lornet makes a wine from the rare Trousseau grape he calls Trousseau des Dames, a unique Vin de Paille and some Macvin.
1 In the opening chorus, "Ach Gott, wie manches Herzeleid" (Ah, God, how much heartache), the cantus firmus is in the bass, which is doubled by the trombone, as in Ach Herr, mich armen Sünder, BWV 135.
He emigrated to Australia at the age of 21, initially spending time at the Palmer River Goldfields in the colony of Queensland.
By 2007, McNab Ridge was part of a cooperative venture named Coro Mendocino, with a number of local wineries producing red blends under the Coro label, all with Mendocino-grown grapes.
Another disadvantage from a time perspective but an advantage in other regards such as gentleness, is that by its nature pressing with a basket press is very slow.
The Trifon Zarezan celebration is also known by various other names: The day of the wine makers, St.
He was born into a prosperous family with origins in the high-ranking boyardom, either in his father's village of Budișteni, Muscel County, or in nearby Pitești, Argeș County.
Most Christian churches, including the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, have adopted the New Julian calendar since 1968.
Since 1994, he has owned Orfila Vineyards and Winery, an award-winning vineyard in the San Pasqual Valley, in Escondido, California.
He co-founded Silk & Textile Printers Pty Ltd and later founded Sheridan, a home furnishings brand that became a leading name in Australian textiles.
Thomas Henry Fiaschi (Italian: Tommaso Enrico Fiaschi; 31 May 1853 – 17 April 1927) was an Italian-Australian surgeon.
It took her six years of research and planning to prepare the right procedure and the correct concoction.
She left Hattingley Valley in 2022 and currently works as an independent consultant winemaker, releasing her first wines in 2024 (from the 2009 vintage).
There are several potential causes of a stuck fermentation; the most common are an excessively high temperature killing off the yeast, or a must deficient in the nitrogen food source needed for the yeast to thrive.
Bill Harlan (born 1940) is an American entrepreneur and vintner who founded and owns Harlan Estate, Promontory and BOND wineries in the Oakville AVA of the Napa Valley, California.
That same year, he appeared in Kit Kittredge: An American Girl, for which he won the Young Artist Award Best Performance in a Feature Film – Young Ensemble Cast with his co-stars.
A coaching stop and hostelry, the inn lay about 7 miles north of Ellisland Farm, Burns's home before the family moved into Dumfries.
If he buys already fermented wine in barrels or en-vrac—basically in bulk containers, he may age the wine further, blend in other wines or simply bottle and sell it as is.
His paternal grandmother, Infanta María de las Mercedes of Spain was a member of the Spanish royal family and the German House of Wittelsbach; she was the daughter of Prince Ferdinand of Bavaria, granddaughter of Alfonso XII of Spain, and niece of Alfonso XIII of Spain.
Achievements Matthiasson has been named Winemaker of the Year by both Food and Wine Magazine and the San Francisco Chronicle, and is a co-author of the California Code of Sustainable Winegrowing.
Excessive phenols in base wine result in partial oxidation, which impairs the flavor and aroma of the final product.
A guidebook written by Theodosius between 517 and 527 CE titled The Layout of the Holy Land identifies Khirbet Kana and indicates that two of the vessels were still at the location.
If the analyst uses the Plato tables (maintained by the American Society of Brewing Chemists) they report in °P.
Other compounds involved The metabolism of amino acids and breakdown of sugars by yeasts has the effect of creating other biochemical compounds that can contribute to the flavor and aroma of wine.
The central broad-wave soil-climatic zone is located on ordinary and southern micellar-carbonate chernozems.
He was also on the advisory board of the Instituto dos Vinhos do Douro e do Porto from its beginning, and played a leading role in the Association of Port Wine Companies.
Charles Louis Back is the third-generation owner of South African wine and cheese producer Fairview, in Paarl in the Western Cape province.
To macerate is to soften by soaking, and maceration is the process by which the red wine receives its red color, since raw grape juice (with the exceptions of teinturiers) is clear-grayish in color.
In the early 1990s, he moved from Saint John to Bedford, Nova Scotia; he lives in Gaspereau, Nova Scotia.
A 1982 resolution he supported, asserting Argentina's claims on the Falkland Islands, resulted in a policy embarrassment for the OAS after Falklands War ended in disaster.
Christian Bizot (1928 – 7 July 2002) was a French winemaker, the head of the Bollinger Champagne house, and the fifth generation to run the family business.
In years where the harvest is exceptional, a vintage (millesime) is declared and the wine must mature for at least three years.
In an interview with The Sydney Morning Herald he stated he had been influenced to enlist by the Italian defeat at the Battle of Adwa and his support for the principles of Young Italy, believing that it would be "dishonorable to allow the slaughtered sons of Italy to go unrevenged".
Career at SRI Bennion started his career at Stanford Research Institute (SRI) where he specialized in Magnetic Circuits.
The most important metric among winemakers are digital blends and a taste index which predicts 100-point scores of consumer critics such as Robert Parker.
Torulaspora delbrueckii is the most studied species of the genus Torulaspora that comprises eight species to date, including T.
CNBC-18 (a TV channel) made a short story for the International Women's Day 2019 for special telecast.
Biography Cullen was born on 22 November 1922 in the Western Australian town of Bunbury as the younger son of Alfred, an English-born surgeon, and his locally born wife Elvie (née Clarke).
Measuring must weight Must weights are commonly measured in the vineyard to monitor the ripeness of the grapes, which helps select the time of harvest.
On April 25, 1826, he stopped paying his father the pension he owed, and all his properties were mortgaged.
Born the eighth of nine siblings, he was the son of Amédée de Lur Saluces, and of Eléonore de Chabannes la Palice, niece of Bertrand de Lur Saluces and the daughter of Eugène de Lur-Saluces.
Family Edward Montgomrey Martin (26 January 1807 – 3 June 1894), a first cousin of James Montgomrey of Brentford, married Ann Thornton (12 October 1809 – 31 July 1901) on 6 June 1835.
Following this advice, in 1950 Almeida visited the main French wine-growing regions of Burgundy and Bordeaux, as well as Rioja in Spain, in order to study the fermentation techniques used there, which were different from those used in Portugal.
The cylinder rotates during the process to help homogenize the pressure that is placed on the grapes.
In Côte-Rôtie, the red variety Syrah and the aromatic white variety Viognier (up to 20% is allowed, but 5–10% is more common) must be co-fermented, if Viognier is used.
With very acidic grapes like Sangiovese this process will temper some of the harshness and volatility in the wine.
Innovations proposed by Dubourdieu include organic farming, oak barrel fermentation with extended skin contact and improved bottling techniques.
However, as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the primary yeast for both beer and wine, can not utilize proline in the anaerobic conditions of ethanol fermentation it is not included in FAN (and subsequently YAN) calculations.
In 1851 he served as an apprentice winemaker for Agoston Haraszthy and then John Patchett before establishing his own winery.
See also List of Test cricket umpires List of Victoria first-class cricketers References External links Curtis Reid at ESPNcricinfo
At the time, Casa Ferreirinha was concentrating on making red Vinho Verde for the Brazilian market but Almeida felt that there was scope to use the grape varieties normally used for Port wine, which is a fortified wine, to make good unfortified table wine.
In 2018, she was honored with the Women Transforming India Awards, organized by the United Nations and NITI Aayog.
Lett grew up on a farm in Holladay, Utah earned a degree in philosophy and pre-med at the University of Utah.
Bacon installed the bed at Brownhill and showing his business acumen, charged customers and others to see it.
in 1958 and to Japan in 1960, he formed an influential K Street lobbying firm in 1962, specializing in the interests of U.S.
In this capacity, he moved quickly to repair the OAS's relationship with its most important member, the United States.
Other historical evidence from the Byzantine and Medieval periods show that Khirbet Kana was regarded as the true site of New Testament Cana from a very early period.
In late 2003 'PLW' became the subject of a heated bidding war between UK-based Allied Domecq and Swiss based Hess Group.
Other functions He was vice-president of the supervisory board of Château Ducru-Beaucaillou from 1999 to 2020.
As of late 2007 the price for a standard American oak barrel was US$600 to 800, French oak US$1200 and up, and Eastern European US$600.
The chapter which depicts the wedding also includes Petrescu's speculation about the Turnavitus' ancestry.
These steps will each have their own subtle or dramatic effect on the resulting flavors and quality of the wine.
During the course of his life he received several honours and decorations: Cross of Naval Merit with White Decoration awarded by the King of Spain for his dedication to sailing.
However, China lost to Lithuania in the quarterfinals by 26 points, eliminating them from the tournament.
In 2017, she co-founded the Académie du Chenin, an organization focused on research and promotion of the Chenin Blanc grape.
The yeast in these beers tends to settle to the bottom of the storage tank naturally, so the sediment from these beers can often be filtered without using isinglass.
Their son, Curtis Arthur Reid (1876–1912), a surveyor, played Australian rules football at the highest level in Perth (with Rovers Football Club and East Fremantle Football Club) and in Melbourne (with Melbourne Football Club).
History One of the earliest extant visual representations of the practice appears on a Roman Empire sarcophagus from the 3rd century AD, which depicts an idealized pastoral scene with a group of Erotes harvesting and stomping grapes at Vindemia, a rural festival.
Trifon is also known in other Balkan countries, it is affixed with the Orthodox calendar and is associated with the change of seasons from winter to spring.
Chapter two opens with Jesus, his mother and his disciples present in Galilee, in the village of Cana.
Previously, during her role as head winemaker at Hattingley Valley, she became the first woman to win the UKVA Winemaker of the Year twice.
He would go on to make single-vineyard wines from many other varieties including: Chardonnay, Ruby Cabernet, Riesling and Cabernet Franc.
At the end of the 1980s of the last century, the Odesa region produced 3.2 million litres of wine, and more than 10 million bottles of champagne were produced.
The second/third century theologian Origen suggested this was the third day from the last-named day in John 1:44 and the Jamieson-Fausset-Brown Bible Commentary argues that it would take Jesus three days to travel from Bethabara in Perea to Cana in Galilee.
20 November 1889; their children included Gordon, Lindsay, Keith, Kenneth, Malcolm, Neil, Marjorie (Mrs Ron Cameron) and Jean.
In 2013 “The Drinks Business” Magazine ranked him among the Top 5 Wine Consultants in the world, and in 2015 “Decanter” Magazine ranked him again in the top 5 Wine Consultants in his professional category.
Doble pasta Spanish winemaking term describing a wine that is macerated with double the normal ratio of grape skins to juice.
In the July 2009 Decanter publication of "The Power List" ranking of the wine industry's individuals of influence, Magrez placed at number 29.
The novel The Secret of Santa Vittoria and the film based on it, taking place in a wine-producing Italian town during WWII, include a grape treading scene which has a major role in the battle of wits between the townspeople and their German occupiers.
She launched the Bollinger RD vintage in 1961 and the vintage Vieilles Vignes Françaises in 1969, putting the brand on the international stage.
To help maintain the quality of vintage Champagnes, a maximum of only half the year's total harvest may be used in the production of a specific vintage.
Brix and actual dissolved solids content When a sugar solution is measured by refractometer or density meter, the °Bx or °P value obtained by entry into the appropriate table only represents the amount of dry solids dissolved in the sample if the dry solids are exclusively sucrose.
Biography After the revocation of the edict of Nantes, Pierre Joubert (Jaubert) went into exile at the age of 24, leaving La Motte-d'Aigues to reach Rotterdam in the Netherlands.
A press release indicated that the Wolfville store was unable to attract enough local customers to become profitable.
Starting in 1953, he directed the Vineyard Association, the controlling shareholder in Carmel Winery, and held this position for about thirty years.
In the 1990s, Oregon began gaining prominence as a producer of quality wine, with the state's best Pinot noirs from vineyards such as Beaux Frères, Argyle and Archery Summit displaying influence from Ponzi's winemaking style.
In time, winemakers discovered that beyond just storage convenience, wine kept in oak barrels took on properties that improved it by making it softer and, in some cases, better-tasting.
In 1985, Orfila was sued by a former subordinate, Carr Donald, over allegedly having been dismissed without cause.
In 1979 Saltram was sold to Canadian multinational spirit producer Seagram which informed Peter that he could no longer make wine on the side, so he quit his job at Saltram and worked fully for Masterson.
The increased production of amino acids leads to the develop of several flavors associated with premium Champagne including aromas of biscuits or bread dough, nuttiness and acacia.
This process can also give an added freshness and creaminess to the wine, and improve color and clarity.
Galets roulés also serve to protect the vine and minimize soil erosion during the periods of strong winds that are known in the area as mistral.
Steve Matthiasson is an American farmer, viticulturist, and winemaker known for his contributions to the low-to-moderate alcohol California wine movement.
He then conducted a commercial apprenticeship at the National Bank of Liechtenstein from 1954 to 1957.
Werner Hubert Gstöhl (3 November 1936 – 22 October 2024) was a banker, winemaker and politician from Liechtenstein who served in the Landtag of Liechtenstein from 1974 to 1978, and again from 1978 to 1982.
Lebanese Christians, and some Shia Muslims believe Qana to have been the actual location of this event.
Career Before venturing into wine, Ukkonika was an employee of Ministry of finance, where she worked for 37 years.
Champagne producers sometimes employ chaptalization in their winemaking when the wine is still in the form of must.
His maternal grandfather was Gonzalo Maria de Ulloa y Ramírez de Haro, Marqués de Castro-Serna, Count de Adanero.
He is also former coordinator of hobby and artistic activities of SZM local organization in Pezinok, high school teacher and municipal councillor.
Bottles then spend 6 months on a riddling rack before being disgorged to remove any sediment that has accrued.
Since then the vineyards at Stonyfell, which covered 70 acres (28 ha), have mostly been taken over for housing.
Lowe's 2009 Zinfandel was awarded the 'Red Wine of the Show' and the 'Wine of the Show' at the 2011 Australia / New Zealand Organic Wine Show.
Arpad was then a well-known sparkling wine producer in San Francisco and President of the California State Board of Viticultural Commissioners, and his statement was widely accepted.
In 1987, he presented a report to the legislature, Toward a New Ontario, which recommended an overhaul of the existing social assistance system.
Other good sources are fresh apple cider and unpasteurized beer that has not been filter sterilized.
Its name commemorates the event of the Wedding at Cana from the Gospel of John, thought by some Christians to have taken place on the site, during which Jesus performed his first miracle, by turning water into wine at the request or behest of Mary.
Instead of fire, a cooper may use steam to heat up the staves but this tends to impart less "toastiness" and complexity to the resulting wine.
Rosetti later recalled seeing Turnavitu himself struggling with guilt at having deserted his teaching position and his students.
Kevin John Cullen, AM (22 November 1922 – 9 February 1994) was an Australian medical doctor, researcher, and winemaker, active in Western Australia's South West.
In the economic advisors chairmanship, Dyson worked on economic issues impacting the city following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center.
However, in Portugal at that time few farms had electricity and there were no temperature-controlled fermentation vats.
The property, "Fairford" in the Adelaide suburb of Sturt on which he built a modest house and wine cellar.
He played a leading role in the improvement of white Bordeaux wines, which as late as the 1960s were sweet and of low quality, to become "serious, potentially profound dry whites".
John was the oldest of four siblings, and his mother and father Adolph had three other sons as well: Dolph, George, and Vernon.
During the 2004 Athens Olympics, Yao carried the Chinese flag during the opening ceremony, which he said was a "long dream come true".
According to the statistics of the Odesa city authorities, in Odesa alone in 1807 there were 8 vineyards with an area of more than 10 acres, from 1812 to 1818 there were 54, and in 1827 there were more than 162 of them.
Some maisons de Champagne (Champagne brands) claim to have secret recipes for this, adding ingredients such as old Champagne wine and candi sugar.
He traveled to Europe in 1891 to learn of French wine-making practices and the possibilities of a British export market.
In 1830, Jean-Louis Vignes sailed from Oahu on the trading bark "Louisa", under the command of Captain George Wood.
Business interests In 1858, Gallice's father had become a partner in Perrier-Jouët with his brother-in-law Charles Perrier.
The current church was built circa 1881, and expanded from 1897-1905, following efforts by the Franciscans to acquire the site between 1641 and 1879, when acquisition was completed.
With the outbreak of World War II, as an Italian citizen in England, he was interned as an enemy alien and later deported to Australia, where he was placed in a prison camp in New South Wales.
Base wine is a type of still wine produced in the first stage of fermentation during the production of sparkling wines and brandies.
As part of his academic responsibilities, Dubourdieu was the director of l'Institut des Sciences de la Vigne et du Vin de l'Université de Bordeaux (English: Institute of Vine and Wine Sciences of the University of Bordeaux).
Rabbi Yehezkel Landau, in Noda B'Yehuda, first edition, Yore Deah 26, for example, permits such beverages.
Wines Vignobles André Lurton, the André Lurton group of Bordeaux wine estates, covers a total of 630 hectares (1,600 acres), of which 264 hectares (650 acres) in Pessac-Légonan, and their combined annual production is 4 million bottles.
"Elizabeth David Is Dead at 78; Noted British Cookbook Writer," by Marian Burros, The New York Times, 28 May 1992.
One of the rarest wines made at Abbaye de la Boutière is called vin jaune (Yellow Wine), which is made from the Savagnin grape (also known locally as Naturé).
As the bubbles rise through the must, grape solids, including phenolic compounds prone to oxidation and browning, will tend to cling to the bubbles, creating a froth that can be removed from the wine.
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
In addition, 62 people are employed in the agriculture sector, which is approximately 7% of the labor force.
He managed or co-managed several properties in Bordeaux, including Château Reynon, Château Doisy Daëne, Château Cantegril, Château Haura, and Clos Floridène.
The practice of leaving a wine to age on its lees (or sur lie aging) has a long history in winemaking dating back to Roman winemaking.
John Staten of Field Stone Winery, Robert Mondavi, Louis Martini, Rob Davis of Jordan Vineyard & Winery, Joel Aiken, Michael Silacci of Opus One, Greg La Follette, of Marchelle Wines, and Rick Sayre of Rodney Strong Wine Estates, considered him their mentor.
This aids in polymerization of tannin into larger molecules, which could fall out of solution, not promoting protein precipitation in the mouth and thus improving mouth astringency.
That is why many studies are currently being conducted on the behavior of non-Saccharomyces yeasts and their co-inoculation in wine.
In 2012 expanded his Bordeaux holdings with Château Malleprat in Pessac-Léognan, Château Moulin d'Ulysse in Listrac-Médoc, and Clos Haut-Peyraguey, a classified growth in Sauternes.
Under French inheritance laws, vineyard holdings were often split until offspring owned no more than a single row of grapes, not enough to fill a barrel.
His success in winning international trophies has been noted by the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation.
Historically, intact grape clusters were trodden by feet but in most wineries today the grapes are sent through a crusher/destemmer, which removes the individual grape berries from the stems and breaks the skins, releasing some juice, prior to being pressed.
Differences between French and American oak American oak tends to be more intensely flavored than French oak with more sweet and vanilla overtones due to the American oak having two to four times as many lactones.
He was instrumental in designing the circuitry for Shakey the Robot, which has the distinction of being the first robot to reason about its own actions.
Their travels took them to South Africa, Germany, the United States, Austria, Bulgaria, Chile, Georgia, Greece, Italy, Mexico, and Romania.
On May 24, 2006, a 30-year re-enactment of the Judgment of Paris was held with simultaneous tastings in London and in Napa.
During this time the wine is deliberately kept in contact with its lees inside the bottle for a period ranging from a couple of months to several years.
The same while brewing beer at a brewery is known as trub – the same from secondary fermentation of wine and beer are the lees or equally, as to beer only, dregs.
Benefits Exposure to oxygen during production may improve wine, but the exposure must be limited: too much oxygen can lead to oxidation while too little can lead to reduction, either one leading to its associated wine faults.
Cazes began low key efforts to market his product to the People's Republic of China as early as 1990.
The winery has scaled its capacity since 2017 from 20,000 litres to 60,000 litres of wine production currently through 16 tanks.
Conventional alcoholic fermentation involves crushing the grapes to free the juice and pulp from the skin with yeast serving to convert sugar into ethanol.
Ukkonika started making wine on a small scale in 2000 inspired by her deceased son Godwin Ukkonika who initiated the wine making concept in the family.
A grand-nephew of André, Mark Tchelistcheff, has completed a feature-length film about André: André Tchelistcheff: The voice of wine.
His paternal grandfather, Prince Irakli Bagration of Mukhrani, was exiled from Georgia during the invasion of the Red Army, living in Germany, Italy, and finally settling in Spain.
She then spent time working at Cuvaison winery in Napa Valley and Tamar Ridge in Tasmania before moving back to the UK.
(9 February 2006) San Francisco Chronicle Barons of Barossa Australia's famous big-bodied Shiraz wines are produced by some outsize personalities.
This serves to smooth out some of the vintage variations caused by the marginal growing climate of Champagne, which is the most northerly winegrowing region in France.
It is a Name Day celebration for people with the name Trifon and derivative or similar sounding names, such as Trifon, Trifko, Trifo, Triful, Trifa, Trifka, Trufka, Trifula, Trichko, Tricho, Trichka, Trajan, Trajana, Fune, Funcho, Radka, Racho.
Khirbet Qana has been identified with the ancient village of Cana, site of Wedding at Cana of the New Testament, and referenced by Josephus.
He was interrogated and interned in the Camp of Mérignac (detention centre guarded by CSS Pichey Beaudésert).
The SGN designation can be used in the appellations Coteaux du Layon and Coteaux de l'Aubance and in both cases this requires the grape must used for the wine to have a minimum sugar content of 294 grams per liter rather than the basic level of 221 or 230 grams per liter respectively.
He remained involved in the brand's design and innovation until 1970, when he sold the company to Dunlop.
He suggested a conference in 1894 to discuss problems in the industry and supported moves to establish American root-stocks, which were resistant to phylloxera, into Victoria.
By the point of his death, Spier would be so valuable that the cost of its slaves alone would be sufficient to purchase a separate farm.
In 1985, he began allowing grapes to soak before fermentation, a technique that became popular in Burgundy and in other New World wine regions in the 1990s.
Young's Adelaide Educational Institution, and started work as secretary and accountant for Stonyfell Wines, which had been founded by Henry Septimus Clark (1836–1864) around 1860 and largely managed by his brother-in-law Joseph Crompton.
Pontbriand initiated the transition of the estate’s vineyards to organic farming in 2006 and completed their conversion to biodynamic practices in 2015.
The taxonomy of the genus Torulaspora is evolving rapidly, and the availability of molecular tools to discriminate Torulaspora species will help correcting errors in species assignments.
Later during their Indonesian tour, Prince Juan and Princess Kristine attended a gala lunch focused on establishing a cultural relationship between Indonesia and Georgia.
Phylloxera Haraszthy's management of the Buena Vista Vinicultural Society was both visionary and reckless.
Personal life In 1980, he married his wife Edita and is the father of Martin (born 1984) and Zuzana (born 1987).
Bollinger took over the presidency of the Bollinger house after the death of her husband in 1941, and directed it until 1971.
Even so, in 2008, Singer's Koshu wine "Shizen Cuvee Denis Dubourdieu" was the first Japanese wine to be accepted by the EU for import.
The Jura is an eastern French winemaking region located between Burgundy and Switzerland - and its location has meant that some unique grape varieties (e.g.
Jean-Paul Jauffret remained president of Vinexpo until 1996 before handing over to Claude Taittinger, CEO of Taittinger champagne.
In 1995 Johnston and his spouse purchased a farm 5 km West of Wellington in Prince Edward County, Ontario.
Rosetti recalls seeing the Turnavitu brothers around 1835, when Scarlat would purchase the food they shared using money he earned as a tutor.
He later pursued advanced studies at UC Davis, earning his MS in Horticulture with a focus on Pest Management of Trees and Vines in 1996.
These methods included reducing chemical inputs, using natural groundcover, and employing ambient yeast during fermentation.
On the vertical axis – the contrasts of light and shadow symbolise the co-existence of mortality and vanitas, the transitory pleasures of earthly life; the protocol of religious symbolism supersedes the social protocol.
After two years working in Italy and London, Fiaschi returned to Australia in 1879 and established a medical practice in Windsor, New South Wales.
Berkeley, California: Regional Oral History Office, Bancroft Library, University of California, 1992.
This technique, which was used widely in France and elsewhere in Europe in the 19th century, proved extremely successful and would later be adopted by many California wineries.
In 1940, Tempier and her husband, Lucien Peyraud, took charge of a Tempier family farming and wine estate in Le Castellet (Var).
In 1987, Salvador started Renteria Vineyard Management Co., with his son Oscar eventually assuming control of the operation upon Salvador's retirement.
She writes about fatness, fat acceptance, and anti-fat bias, and have given talks about sexuality, fat positivity, disability justice, and racism.
He was also head of medical services in that country, receiving several Russian and Prussian honours.
Johnson researches adolescent health and substance abuse and violence in marginalized groups including persons of color, LGBT youth, and immigrants.
In the first of these he examined and compared the opinions of ancient and modern writers on the subject.
In 1972, he was elevated to the status of a professor and head of the Psychiatry Department of the University of Ghana Medical School.
In 1976 he worked as a psychologist for prisoners in Western Australia, researching public views on punishment for crimes and court sentencing.
A former All Star Gaelic footballer who played at senior level for Dublin county team for nearly 15 years, he retired from county football in 2005 and spent another four years playing with his club Na Fianna.
After moving to New York City, Butts joined the Planned Parenthood's Board of Directors, through which she met sex researchers Masters and Johnson in the 1970s.
A radio career in iRadio and Spin 1038 followed, before she decided to step away from broadcasting to travel.
Subspecialties The field of psychiatry has many subspecialties that require additional (fellowship) training, which, in the US, are certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN) and require Maintenance of Certification Program to continue.
Charles Sidney Bluemel (17 July 1884 – 17 December 1960) was a British–American psychiatrist and pioneer of speech pathology, best known for his research on stuttering.
As a faculty member of psychology at the University of New Brunswick, she established the Muriel McQueen Fergusson Centre for Family Violence.
With Andrew Matthews, Holmes outlined three different ways that mental imagery alters emotional experiences.
He was confirmed as Dublin senior football team manager on 12 December 2019, succeeding Jim Gavin on a three-year contract.
Minuchin once wrote of Haley as his most important teacher, a man who was "forever pushing the envelope, testing the limits of new ideas" to challenge Minuchin and himself.
Sherwood, was published in 1966 as The Nature of Psychology: A Selection of Papers, Essays and Other Writings by Kenneth J.
She developed opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and meningitis, and as a result she became blind and deaf in one ear.
He served as a professor and Deputy Medical Superintendent at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore.
His residency included trainings in internal medicine, metabolic and eating disorders, and psychiatry at university hospitals in Zurich, London, and Paris.
Second Thoughts on the Theory and Practice of the Milan Approach to Family Therapy (The Systemic Thinking and Practice Series) (1st ed.).
Works His main works are: Observations on the Nature, Kinds, Causes, and Prevention of Insanity, Lunacy, or Madness, London and Leicester, 1782, 1786.
Roland Kuhn (4 March 1912 – 10 October 2005) was a Swiss psychiatrist who discovered that the drug imipramine had antidepressant properties.
Richardson and Emily Preyer Distinguished Professorship at the University of North Carolina School of Social Work and was a fellow at the Frank Porter Graham Child Development Center.
She is an advocate for inclusive education in the Dominican Republic and was UNESCO Chair on Social and Academic Inclusion for People with Disabilities and Special Education Needs at UNIBE from 2013 to 2017.
The assembled group of people decided to form an organization, and adopted the name Vancouver Area Network of Drug Users a year later.
Schwartz came from a Jewish family, but as an adult he adopted multiple beliefs from a variety of different religions.
in Educational Psychology and Counseling, Watson begun her career teaching nursing courses at the CU College of Nursing.
Publications and research He has authored more than 70 peer-reviewed articles in national and international journals and has contributed extensively to public awareness through books and articles in Kannada and English.
According to The Guardian, Singh sees her work as helping intercultural, mixed race and migrant couples.
Joy Harden Bradford (born 1979) is an African American clinical psychologist based in Atlanta, Georgia.
The Center was established in 2005, and focuses their trainings and programs on persons seeking to take personal responsibility to improve their wellness.
University education and career On finishing high school, Poulton moved to Dunedin to attend the University of Otago.
Elias is also responsible for the Catholic Christian Education Committee, and supervises the Catholic Church educational centres in Greater Damascus.
He was appointed physician in ordinary to George IV in 1823, in 1830 physician extraordinary to Queen Adelaide, and in 1833 lord chancellor's visitor in lunacy.
Career Hughes started his career in London in the 1990s before training as a psychologist and psychotherapist.
Felice Lieh–Mak (Chinese: 麥列菲菲; Jyutping: Mak6 Lit6 Fei1-fei1; born (1941-08-10)10 August 1941) is a Hong Kong physician, psychiatrist, academician, editor and retired civil servant, and emeritus professor at the University of Hong Kong.
He started to be known as Andrew Skarbek and in 1969 became clinical director of the London Clinic of Psychotherapy.
He became a lecturer at Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry in 1992, and became a professor there in 1998.
In 1989, botanists John Charles David and David Leslie Hawksworth published Lauderlindsaya, which is a genus of fungi in the family Verrucariaceae and named in Lindsay's honour.
In this work, from the Encyclopædia Edinensis, Poole acknowledges help in early life from Archibald Alison.
His first book, Insatiable Wives, won a Silver Medal in the Foreword Magazine Book of the Year in 2009.
Pasricha studies not just the characteristics of reincarnation prevalent in India, but also suggests ways they are similar or different from those of people in other countries.
While it seems counterintuitive to suppose that introverts are more aroused than extraverts, the putative effect this has on behaviour is such that the introvert seeks lower levels of stimulation.
Honours Donegal Ulster Senior Football Championship: 1972 Ulster Minor Football Championship: 1956 Dr McKenna Cup: 1963, 1965, 1967 Dr Lagan Cup: 1965, 1966, 1967 Donegal Senior Football Championship x5 Democrat Cup x3 == References ==
Because these feelings often are felt insufferable, another layer is built, the layer of defending emotions like anger, aggression, rage and defiance.
He was the author of Visions in Verse, first published in 1751; and a two volume complete collection of his works was published in 1791.
In 2014 he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.
"American Association of Colleges of Nursing, and the Department of Baccalaureate and Higher Degree Programs: Purposes, Roles and Relationships" in National League for Nursing Publications (New York: National League for Nursing, 1974).
She was the first curator at the Kitale Museum when it opened in 1973, under the supervision of Richard Leakey.
Life He was born at 106 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh on 24 June 1833 the son of Jane Graham (1807–1875), from Clonmel, Ireland and William Sibbald (1799–1877).
In 2021, as a member of the Council's committee on equalities, Morrison supported flying the Pride flag at the council's offices in Elgin, and at Secondary Schools around Moray.
Dix traveled from New Hampshire to Louisiana, documenting the condition of the poor mentally ill, making reports to state legislatures, and working with committees to draft the enabling legislation and appropriations bills needed.
He was placed on injured reserve on September 1, 1988, after tearing the connective tissue on his left foot during practice on August 31, 1988.
He was an expert communicator for the government drug education service FRANK, and co-founded the Amy Winehouse Foundation.
From December 2003 to February 2004, she was strategic business manager for Portsmouth City Primary Care Trust.
Transdiagnostic approaches Harvey was among the early proponents of transdiagnostic frameworks in clinical psychology.
Books The Shock of the Fall (HarperFiction, 2013; The Borough Press, 2014) The Heartland (also published as This Book will Change Your Mind about Mental Health ) (Faber, 2019) Audio Why Do I Feel?
He won the Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis (German Youth Literature Award) in 1996 for Als die Welt noch jung war.
Wykle put her vision into practice, going on to direct a geriatric psychiatry graduate nursing program during her early years as a faculty member of Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing.
However, these sessions were terminated after the arrest of one of the organizers, which resulted in people being afraid and refraining from participating.
Together they developed therapeutic community initiatives which laid the foundations for significant advances in psychiatric nursing.
Bell has written articles on psychology and neuroscience for several newspapers and magazines, including The Guardian, Discover, Slate, Wired UK, The Independent and The Atlantic.
Her mother, a Jehovah's Witness, attempted to "cure" her of her lesbianism after she fell in love with a girl.
Anderson nevertheless trained successfully as a nurse at Nottingham General Hospital and did psychiatric nursing at the Coppice Hospital.
A fluent Spanish speaker, for several years he undertook teaching and clinical work at university facilities in Colombia and worked as a mental health coordinator for Médecins sans Frontières in difficult conditions.
Career and activism Graham worked as an addiction counsellor and therapist, running his own drug rehabilitation company which included a weekly LGBTI addiction and recovery therapy group.
He became deeply interested in the legal status of the medical profession, and organised the Association of Surgeon-Apothecaries of England and Wales, with the object of improving the education and status of the profession.
Transdiagnostic Intervention for Sleep and Circadian Dysfunction Harvey co-developed the Transdiagnostic Intervention for Sleep and Circadian Dysfunction (also known as TranS-C or TSC) with Daniel J.
She was named by Time magazine as one of their Europeans of the Year in 2003 and in 2016 won the Irish Council for Civil Liberties Human Rights Film award for her coverage of the refugee crisis.
The following year, she returned to the university and worked in strength training as a graduate assistant.
On 20 April 2010 Indermaur was a speaker at the Rally For Your Rights event, organized by Search For Your Rights, where he criticized stop and search laws.
She was awarded the ‘100 Women Achievers of India’ in 2016 by the President of India for her work on mental health.
Additionally, Davis and University of Birmingham colleagues will work to translate prior research on alcohol-related sexual assault into real-world prevention practices.
Dr Archibald Campbell Clark FFPSG (1852–1901) was a nineteenth-century Scottish physician who made major advances in mental health care philosophies.
There he received his master's degree in science and his postgraduate diploma in clinical psychology.
She pointed out that a large proportion of existing psychiatric hospitals did not have full approval for training.
After working at Bacon Health Center, she was transferred to the Delaware State Psychiatric Hospital in 1963.
Following that additional support, Woebot has been suspected to reduce depression and anxiety symptoms within as little as the passage of two weeks.
Research Rindermann does research in educational psychology, developmental psychology, differential psychology, pedagogy, and clinical psychology.
She graduated in 2009 with a degree in English Literature and Cinema Studies from the College of Arts & Science of the New York University.
He then returned to India to study theology at De Nobili College in Pune and was ordained to the priesthood in March 1961.
He practiced psychiatry in Denver and was the owner of Mount Airy Sanitarium (1927–1953), a private psychiatric hospital.
In 1954 he returned to the United States to be trained in psychoanalysis at the William Alanson White Institute.
1999-2007 he was president of the international Society for Gestalt Theory and its Applications (GTA).
In 1858 he was elected a Fellow of the Linnean Society (FLS) and in 1861 a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Believing that art "transcended reality", Kaupas belonged to a generation of literary critics dubbed the lankininkai, after their magazine Literatūros lankai.
Lazarus, early writer in CBT Richard Lazarus Tatia Lee Harriet Lerner Marsha Linehan, founder of dialectical behavior therapy M Isaac Marks Paul R.
However by 1906 the magistrates had started to become disillusioned with the efficacy of the inebriate reformatories.
She attended Indiana University, where she was a member of Alpha Gamma Delta sorority, and she earned a degree in zoology at the University of Kentucky.
Her presentations, Expert Testimony in Cases of Child Sexual Abuse and Identification of Red Flag Sexual Grooming Behaviors: Implications for Practice, were offered live and are also available on demand.
When she arrived at Yale, Taylor was selected to become a superintendent at the Yale–New Haven Hospital while teaching.
Career David founded the management consulting firm Evidence Based Psychology in 1999 and serves as its CEO.
She started a walk-in clinic, a mobile clinic, and a telephone helpline, and her efforts were credited with contributing to lowering the suicide rate in the city.
From the age of one, she lived in an apartment in Frankfurt with her parents and her paternal grandmother, Selma, who was a widow.
In 1982, he moved to England, where he joined the Institute of Psychiatry's Addiction Research Unit.
Tuesdays with Morrie Schwartz achieved national prominence posthumously after being featured as the subject of Mitch Albom's 1997 best-selling memoir, Tuesdays with Morrie.
His role as Commissioner of Lunacy was based at 51 Queen Street and he lived at 13 Heriot Row which faces that building across Queen Street Gardens.
Publications Réseau Alternative à la psychiatrie (1977) Formations et pratiques en thérapie familiale (1985) Les pratiques de réseaux : santé mentale et contexte social (1987) Si tu m’aimes, ne m’aime pas.
Her 1977 article for Ebony magazine, "Sex Education: Who Needs It?", was the Ebony's first feature on the topic.
In 2019, he became professor and chair of psychiatry and psychotherapy at the University of Fribourg.
Career Christmas left private practice to set up the Harlem Hospital Rehabilitation Center and to teach at Columbia University.
Clemmons's work was recognized by the American Psychiatric Association, and she won the Federal Woman's Award in 1972, "for singular professional competence and qualities of human understanding".
In 2018 the Conservative-Independent administration collapsed and the SNP formed a minority administration.
Festschrift für Martin Salzer (in German), Wien: Rebell, ISBN 978-3-9500516-0-5 Monika Salzer; Peter Karner [in German] (2008), Vom Christbaum zur Ringstraße.
Life After training in clinical psychology, Hetherington worked for a period in the Creighton Royal Hospital in Dumfries about which he wrote Hetherington, 1956).
This was a time when divorced women were still stigmatized, and part of her mission in opening Rockhaven was so that women would be treated with respect.
Career Stevenson trained as a psychiatric nurse before completing a BA (Hons) in psychology and sociology at Sunderland Polytechnic.
It was awarded the 1998 British Psychological Society Book Award for significant contributions to psychology and remains a definitive text in this field, recently being reprinted for a 20th anniversary edition.
In 1957, Kuhn published the results of his observations of the antidepressant properties of Imipramine in the Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift (Swiss Weekly Medical Journal).
"Terrorism, distress and coping: High versus low impact regions and direct versus indirect civilian exposure." Anxiety, Stress, and Coping 18.3 (2005): 165-182.
Exploratory therapy, Genspect and SEGM O'Malley advocates for "exploratory therapy" in response to gender dysphoria and has written and testified about how some conversion therapy bills risk limiting access to exploratory therapy.
After training in clinical psychology she completed a PhD on depression among women at the University of Oxford (1985).
Duncan was the inaugural President of the society and served as one of its Secretaries for 46 years from 1782-1828.
References External links Jane and Littleton Mitchell Center for African American Heritage - Big Picture (2016 video)
Louis Francisque Lélut (1804–1877) was a French medical doctor and philosopher known for his works Démon de Socrate and L'Amulette de Pascal, where he stated that Socrates and Blaise Pascal were insane.
She also acquired certifications in sex and relationship therapy from the Cambridge Health Alliance of Harvard Medical School and Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS).
Academic career Spring has held faculty appointments in preventive medicine, psychology, and psychiatry, and has worked at the intersection of behavioral science and public health.
She established Positive Movement to champion sexual and reproductive health rights and build an inclusive society that does not judge people based on disabilities or HIV status.
Burns created the first federal initiatives in children's mental health services research at the National institute of Mental Health in the late 1980s.
From 2017 to 2023, Horsham was a councillor for the Clydesdale South ward on for South Lanarkshire Council.
In 1927, she moved to England because the Commonwealth Fund of America requested her to do an experiment to work on clinics for children.
As chairman of this body Burrows was most indefatigable, and had a large share in the movement which led to the passing of the Apothecaries' Act in 1815.
Asagwara served as a member of the former Premier's Advisory Council on education, poverty, and citizenship, and as a member of the Women's Health Clinic board of directors.
His prose is described as cleansing the Lithuanian tradition of poetic speech and turning it into a direction of universality and playfulness which does not seek ideological arguments to strengthen the nation's existence.
At Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, she became director of behavioral medicine and later directed the Center for Behavior and Health within the Institute for Public Health and Medicine.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.911629 Makol, B.A., Youngstrom, E.A., Racz, S.J., Qasmieh, N., Glenn, L.E., & De Los Reyes, A.
Burns died on January 28, 2024, after living at the Carol Woods Retirement Community for three years.
INTAR: The International Network Toward Alternatives and Recovery (together with Laurie Ahern & Peter Stastny).
at St Andrews in October 1769, and in May 1770 became a licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.
Keegan also won a National Football League medal in 1979, though injury prevented him from playing against Cork in the final.
Jürg Schubiger (14 October 1936 – 15 September 2014) was a Swiss psychotherapist and writer of children's books.
He is co-editor (executive editor 2000–2012) of the international multidisciplinary journal "Gestalt Theory" (de Gruyter) and of the journal "Phänomenal - Zeitschrift für Gestalttheoretische Psychotherapie" (Krammer).
The Trans Writers Union also announced a boycott of the paper due to what they characterised as advocating conversion therapy and a pattern of transphobic behavior.
She died of leukemia at the Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo, after having concealed her illness until the last six weeks of her life.
Approche systémique et psychothérapie (1989) La thérapie familiale en changement (1994) Panorama des thérapies familiales À quel psy se vouer ?
"Antipsychotics, Other Psychotropics, and the Risk of Death in Patients With Dementia: Number Needed to Harm".
Surely, the righteous are taken away from the evil to come, and we are left to struggle on under increasing difficulties.
David wrote the self-help book Emotional Agility, which was published with Penguin Random House in 2016.
Daniella Moyles is an Irish psychotherapist, broadcaster and former model from Naas, County Kildare.
In 2009, the German version of ICD-10 GM introduced the new diagnosis F45.41 "Chronic pain with mental and somatic factors".
She has represented the IPC at the Vista Conference, the Africa Continental Organisational Capacity Program for National Paralympic Committees and co-facilitated the Africa Women in Leadership workshops.
Heba Kotb (Arabic: هبة قطب; born September 19, 1967) is an Egyptian certified sex therapist and host of The Big Talk, a sexual advice show airing in Egypt.
Lord Shaftesbury (as Ashley had become upon his father's death in 1851) was the chief witness and opposed the suggestion that the certification of insanity be made more difficult and that early treatment of insanity was essential if there was to be any prospect of a cure.
Over the course of the following fourteen seasons he enjoyed much success, the highlight being in 1936 when he won an All-Ireland medal.
Articles In 2021, his article What are Attachment Styles and How Do They Influence Adult Behavior appeared in Choosing Therapy.
More recently, it was discovered that he tested drugs on patients and children without informed consent and without proper approval by the authorities during his time at the psychiatric hospital in Münsterlingen (where he was director 1971–1980), a practice that is highly unethical.
Ayesha Chundrigar (Urdu: عائشہ چندریگر) is a Pakistani animal welfare activist, entrepreneur and journalist.
In 2005, Copeland's work led to the creation of the non-profit, the Copeland Center for Wellness and Recovery which continues her work through trainings around the world.
In 1792 he became Principal Physician as successor to his father, while he also inherited his father's private asylum at Brooke House in Clapton.
He left an estate worth $2,757,000 much of which he gave in endowments to several US universities and other institutions.
Education and career Indermaur graduated from the University of Western Australia, obtaining a masters in clinical psychology in 1979 and a Doctor of Law in 1997.
He has designed a number of noted approaches to working in clinical settings, including The DICES Risk Assessment and Management System and The RAID Course for Working with Challenging Behaviour.
Helen Brew had been still at high school when she heard Bevan-Brown lecture, and was "hugely impressed".
Career From 1898 to 1914, he was one of the Commissioners in Lunacy, a UK public body established by the Lunacy Act 1845 to oversee the asylums and the general welfare of the mentally ill.
In 1895 he was appointed Chief Medical Superintendent of the newly completed asylum - Hartwood Hospital, serving Lanark.
As a result, she began researching the topic, eventually coming across a passage in the Qur'an discussing sexual relations between husbands and wives that she saw as speaking to the woman's sexual rights.
He has appeared at writers’ festivals and workshops in South Africa and, more recently, in Sydney, Australia, where he now lives with his wife and their three children.
Provence was named an All-American by The Sporting News while garnering Associated Press Third-team All-American and Gannett News Service Second-team All-American accolades in 1982.
Batten has spoken about how her friendship with Eagle ‘unlocked her art,’ and ‘crystallised her ideas.’ Eagle in turn has also acknowledged Batten for her own shift to environmental issues.
In 1985, he won another poetry competition with his poem called Scott’s first voyage, in a competition that was held by the Poetry Association of Scotland.
She had been a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Galway West constituency from 2016 until her election as president in 2025.
Emigration to the United States Kaupas and his wife emigrated to the United States, reaching New York on 18 February 1950.
and is also Professor II of Clinical Psychology at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology.
She also co-hosts The Sexy Minds podcast with Boys’ Night Out’s Tony Toni, where they talk about Filipino sexual experiences and behaviors.
Her 1995 dissertation was titled, Regulation of adult neurogenesis in the rat dentate gyrus by adrenal steroids and excitatory input.
Sudders holds a bachelor's degree with honors and a master's degree in social work from Boston University, and honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts School of Professional Psychology and Bridgewater State University.
He has also been a panelist on the BBC Radio 2 Book Club, BBC Radio 3's Free Thinking and BBC Radio 4's Open Book, Front Row, All in the Mind and the Today Programme.
Arndt also takes a conservative view on having children outside of marriage, and has questioned the dedication of mothers entering parliament.
These were acquired during his tenure as physician to Alexander I of Russia and during his travels throughout Europe when he was studying medicine.
Bryan Waller Procter (21 November 1787 – 5 October 1874), who wrote under the pseudonym Barry Cornwall, was an English poet who served as a Commissioner in Lunacy.
She founded her own consultancy firm in February 2017, joining the National Association for Education and Training Support in Bahrain that April.
From 2000 to 2004, she initiated and developed a process of developing the organisation of the Protestant Church of the Augsburg Confession, together with Michael Bünker, then director of the Religionspädagogische Akademie, and Thomas Krobath from the Kirchliche Pädagogische Hochschule Wien/Krems.
She is founder of the Ayesha Chundrigar Foundation, a non profit animal rescue organization based in Karachi, Pakistan.
In this position he established a training programme in clinical psychology and co-authored a textbook for medical students.
He was often criticized by the medical establishment for his "overly liberal" methods of treatment, as he favored allowing patients the right to express themselves via art, and discouraged the widespread practices of physical restraint and punishment of asylum patients in that day.
Early life and education Linda Lucille Wiley was born in Evansville, Indiana, and graduated from Evansville Central High School in 1963.
thesis, entitled 'Measurement of patient-nurse interaction in relation to in-patient psychiatric treatment', was supervised by Elsie Stephenson in 1967.
His league and championship career at senior level with the Mayo county team lasted fourteen seasons from 1934 until 1948.
Key publications Wells' first book Attention and Emotion: A Clinical Perspective (co-authored with Gerald Matthews) presented a critique and framework for applying cognitive psychology to the understanding of psychopathology.
Further career In 1958 Nicolas joined the staff of the General Nursing Council (GNC) for England and Wales as an inspector of nurse training schools.
He is also a Clinical Director at Somer Counseling and Psychotherapy, and serves as scientific advisor in Trauma and Dissociation Israel.
The piece was a rebuttal to the essay Remissions: Toward a Deconstruction of Phallic Univocality written by art critic and theorist Lita Barrie in 1986.
Befrienders are carefully selected volunteers, from a variety of organisations and mental health charities, who are trained to provide support and companionship to lonely, or emotionally distressed, people.
She is also the lead author on a meta-analysis of the symptoms of the prodrome to bipolar disorder, which provided a foundation for work by her and others aiming to predict the risk of onset of bipolar disorder.
Moreover, in a letter to William Montgomerie, Abbot admitted that the idea of risking all on full-time writing scared him.
He specialised in psychosis and neuropsychology and graduated with a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
(In the Netherlands, a distinction is made between arts in opleiding tot specialist (AIOS) and arts niet in opleiding tot specialist (ANIOS).
In January 2016, she got felicitated by the President of India, Pranab Mukherjee, as one of the top 100 Women Achievers of the country.
Langner (January 1, 1924 – March 16, 2026) was an American sociologist who led the Midtown Manhattan Study, which showed the cultural and economic forces that shape mental illness.
Rief's research examines the psychological factors involved in the development, maintenance and management of physical complaints, including investigations of somatic symptom disorders and placebo effects.
This work includes the examination of interventions aimed at improving these outcomes in this population, quality of housing for adults with complex needs, and collaborative care models in mental health.
Senate profile (2020) Archived 22 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine Chamber of Senators (in Spanish).
Munnelly made his senior debut for Mayo during the 1934–35 league and quickly became a regular member of the starting fifteen.
Council of Representatives Kamal entered politics by running in the 2018 Bahraini general election for the Council of Representatives, in which she ran for the second district in the Capital Governorate.
Hayes Stefan Hofmann Olivia Hooker Karen Horney, founder of feminist psychology and major theorist of conflict-based neuroses.
Harry Keegan (born 12 January 1952) is an Irish former Gaelic footballer who played as a corner back for the Roscommon senior team.
In 2005, his second novel Tingling was banned for a while since he touched upon the Omani security services.
Billig asserts that in the same year Eysenck also became a member of the comité de patronage of GRECE's Nouvelle École.
Chitra Raghavan is a clinical psychologist in New York City, specializing in domestic violence, sex trafficking, sexual harassment, rape, and other types of violent acts against humans.
She has won the Research award of the Australasian Society for Intellectual Disability four times since 1993.
Seehl published An Easy Method of Procuring the Volatile Acid of Sulphur in Philosophical Transactions in 1744.
He wrote of his "discovery" in A mite cast into the treasury of the famous city of London, being a brief and methodical discourse of the nature, causes, symptomes, remedies and preservation from the plague, in this calamitous year, 1665, digested into aphorismes.
He claimed to have studied anatomy under John Hunter, and from about 1750 he practised as a surgeon and apothecary at Redruth.
Early in 1810 Charles Philip Yorke insisted on the exclusion of strangers from the House of Commons during the debates on the Walcheren expedition.
Philippe Sylvestre Dufour (born Manosque 1622, died Vevey (Canton de Vaud) 1687) was a French Protestant apothecary, banker, collector, and writer based in Lyon.
He was a member of the Pennsylvania Prison Society and president of the Pennsylvania Humane Society.
The next year he became a physician to the Landgrave Georg II of Hesse-Darmstadt and then to Georg Wilhelm of Brandenburg.
Geoffrey Tweedale, At the Sign of the Plough: 275 years of Allen & Hanburys and the British pharmaceutical industry, 1715–1990 (1990) ISBN 0-7195-4786-5.
Because Phytanthoza iconographia was to become Ehret's first published work, he set about the project with great enthusiasm.
They were painted when the fraktur tradition in Pennsylvania was at its height, and accordingly they bear its imprint, as well as the influence of Christian devotional prints and illustrated Bibles popular during the period.
Thomas Monro] and Apothecary of Bethlem Hospital upon the Evidence before the House of Commons on Madhouses, 1816; Haslam's observations are on pp.
Other artefacts displayed at the museum were obtained from private donors, the Faculty of Pharmacy at the University of Toronto, and from the collection of the Ontario College of Pharmacy.
In addition to the eponymous disease, Parkinson is commemorated in the names of several fossil organisms, including the ammonite Parkinsonia parkinsoni, the crinoid Apiocrinus parkinsoni, the snail Rostellaria parkinsoni, and the tree Nipa parkinsoni.
The pharmacy is still part of Merck KGaA, but the original building was destroyed during World War II in the bombing campaigns, and therefore it is a new construction.
It then had several owners before it was acquired by Lord Duveen who presented it to the British National Gallery in 1934.
As writers, both wrote many poems, religious treatises, scientific and historical works and translations, and theatrical and musical pieces, including the first Dutch opera.
John Haslam (1764–1844) was an English apothecary, physician and medical writer, known for his work on mental illness.
Their children included: Alexander Thomson of Duddingston, advocate, (died 1603), who married Margaret Preston in 1594, a daughter of Samuel Preston of Craigmillar, and widow of Walter Cant.
Lucas was one of 49 physicians and chirurgeons who declared their public support for the construction of a Publick Bath in Dublin in May 1771 and named Achmet Borumborad as a well qualified individual for carrying such a scheme into existence.
His family was related to the famous lawyer José Presas y Marull, an anglophile, who served as secretary of Carlota Joaquina of Spain.
Craigie sent Mary Allen to the Moravian Boarding School for Girls in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, in 1779.
His daughter Jane married Shrewsbury goldsmith Thomas Gittins on 11 December 1599, and had at least three children by 1615: Thomas, Symon, and Elizabeth.
The bills were checked and certified by the Prince's chamberlain Robert Cary and the physician John Craig, and another bill presented in 1619 was countersigned by Matthew Lister a physician who served Anne of Denmark.
Hugh Tait, 'Wedgwood, Flaxman, and an English eighteenth-century portrait carver, Silvanus Bevan.' Proceedings of the Wedgwood Society, No 3, 1959.
Biography Olcott was trained as an apothecary, which was the precursor of the modern pharmacist profession.
540-545 With Lassone, Mémoire sur la nature de la substance saline acide que l'on retire de la cerise, de la groseille, etc., Académie royale des sciences, 1786, p.
Government in Albemarle Shortly after that, Eastchurch appointed Miller as the Interim Governor and President of the Executive Council of Albemarle, having obtained a commission.
He seems to have sold books, missals, and offertory candles to the king, although similar books were also provided by a man called by "John Foular".
Competing apothecaries and perfumers Rumler wrote to King James about George Shires or Shiers, a former servant of Master Morgan, an apothecary to the late Anne of Denmark.
In a similar vein, but with a smaller scope was one of the first publications of Lambert's brother Govert, Letters of the Marytyred Apostles (1675).
They had ten children, including the sons Joachim (1768–1801) and Hans Timm (1774–1852), who one after the other succeeded their father as the official apothecary in Malchin.
Following the war William attained wealth and landholdings, but lost much of his fortune following the restoration.
Historisch-kritische Untersuchung der Alchemie oder der eingebildeten Goldmacherkunst, von ihrem Ursprunge sowohl als Fortgange, und was nun von ihr zu halten sey.
He was a member of several secret political societies, including the London Corresponding Society and the Society for Constitutional Information.
In the nineteenth century, under William Allen and the Hanbury family, Allen & Hanburys became one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in London.
Spreul's wife died while he was in prison and he petitioned for his full release, rather than being sent to the American plantations as a slave, when in 1686 there were some concessions from the regime.
Works About 1798 he published Observations on the Tussis Convulsiva, or Hoopping-cough, as read at the Lyceum Medicum Londinense.
Biography He was a direct descendant of company founder Friedrich Jacob Merck, who had purchased the Engel-Apotheke (Angel Pharmacy) in Darmstadt in 1668.
Johann Udalric Rumler Rumler's brother or relative Johann Udalric Rumler studied at various German and Italian universities, supported by Raymund Fugger, an Imperial Count of the mercantile patriciate of the Fugger family.
Career In April 1598, Edinburgh burgh hosted a banquet for Anne of Denmark's brother, Ulrik, Duke of Holstein, at the house of Ninian MacMorran at Riddle's court.
On 11 March 1796 in that year he, and John Binns delivered lectures, as delegates from the London Corresponding Society, in Birmingham; but the meeting was broken up.
Adam Drummond of Binend (1679–1758) was a Scottish surgeon-apothecary who was appointed, jointly, as the first Professor of Anatomy at the University of Edinburgh.
On 7 May 1860 he was appointed professor of medical jurisprudence and toxicology at Queen's College, Birmingham (a predecessor college of Birmingham University).
He fought in the Battle of Campaldino (June 11, 1289), with the Florentine Guelphs against Arezzo Ghibellines; he fought as a feditore, responsible for the first attack.
Between 1756 and 1758, he studied natural sciences, physics and chemistry in Copenhagen and in 1761 he went to Uppsala and studied botany and zoology under Carl von Linné.
On qualifying, he moved to Bath, where he practised is profession from premises in Trim Street with partner Thomas West.
Scholar Suzanne Amigues suggested that this Aristophilus was the same person as the pharmakopōlēs named "Aristobulus" described by Aeschines in his Against Ctesiphon, father of the youth Aristion of Plataea who lived for a time in the house of the statesman Demosthenes.
In many of his poems, she is depicted as semi-divine, watching over him constantly and providing spiritual instruction, sometimes harshly.
Life Born on 29 September 1755, was the eldest son of John Field, an apothecary in extensive practice in Newgate Street, London, by his wife, Anne, daughter of Thomas Cromwell, grocer, who was a grandson of Henry Cromwell, lord deputy of Ireland.
Mocquet wrote and published an account of his voyages, Voyages en Afrique, Asie, Indes orientales et occidentales published in 1617.
He became a master apothecary in 1748, and in 1752 he was admitted to the Académie des sciences as a supernumerary adjoint chemist.
Johann Christian Wiegleb (December 21, 1732 – January 16, 1800) was a notable German apothecary and early innovator of chemistry as a science.
In 1450, Landucci began keeping the diary that would posthumously prove his claim to fame, diligently recording events of the day until his death.
In common with his colleagues Field afterwards received the thanks of the corporation and a piece of plate.
Samuel More (30 November 1726 – 11 October 1799) was an English apothecary and administrator associated with the Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce.
By his wife, Judith Chamberlaine, he had a son Abraham, who married Anne, daughter of Sir Richard Sandys of Northbourne Court, Kent; and a daughter, Anne, married to Sir Richard Sprignell, bart., of Coppenthorpe, Yorkshire.
All you have to do is brave the market horde to their quiet corner and shed all preconceived notions.
On 26 November 1604, Anne of Denmark appointed him to provide sweet powders, waters, perfumes and other products.
I will not cease working to recover the honor [even] of those women who have forgotten it, and perhaps I will be the catalyst for the reawakening of their intellect.
The Political Graveyard Plan of Say Burial Ground Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine, at 3rd and Arch Streets in Philadelphia Watercolor of grave marker
Normally the sight of prayer flags and the smell of incense repel me, but the store’s herbs and other products, along with the knowledgeable service, have made Tenzing Momo part of my regular routine...
He was banished by the Imperial Court to Izu Ōshima on June 26, 699, but folk tales at least as old as the Nihon Ryōiki (c.
Erculiani was very educated, despite her claims otherwise—in her works, she often cites Galen and Aristotle.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl (~27) married Sarah Perry (~22) (daughter of Philip Perry and Elizabeth Flemming; sister of John Perry Sr and aunt of John Perry, shipwrights of Blackwall Yard) at St Andrew Undershaft, City of London, on 19 Nov 1745.
In 1766 Lucas unsuccessfully opposed a bill to prevent the exportation of grain, on the ground that certain alterations made in it by the English privy council were detrimental to the rights of the Irish parliament.
He spoke effectively at the British and Westminster forums, and publicly supported the progress of the French Revolution.
In 1730, perhaps somewhat piqued by Philip Miller's issue of his Catalogus in that year, Rand printed an Index plantarum officinalium in horto Chelseiano.
He succeeded his father in his profession, and in 1807 was elected apothecary to Christ's Hospital, a post which he continued to fill until within a short time of his death.
By 1691, the club included Martin Lister, Tancred Robinson, John Watts, Nehemiah Grew, William Sherard, Samuel Doody, Leonard Plukenet, Charles Hatton, Adam Buddle, and Samuel Dale.
He bequeathed his houses in Langthorne to his sons and wife, and his apothecary's shop to his son John.
John Moffet (April 5, 1831 – June 19, 1884) was an Irish-American politician who served as a Democratic member of the U.S.
In 1754 he introduced the concept of a base into chemistry as a substance which reacts with an acid to form a salt.
In 1719 he published a scurrilous ‘Examination’ of John Woodward's ‘State of Physick and Diseases.’ A reply, entitled ‘An Account of Dr.
But it can function as more than just a pit-stop for vacationing hippies or angst-ridden teen witches if you let it—the store's staff are herbal sommeliers.
In the same year he published an edition of the Loimologia of Nathaniel Hodges, and a collection of ‘Medico-physical Essays’ on ague, fevers, gout, leprosy, king's evil, and other diseases.
During his role he punished the anti-proprietors for several offences which they had apparently committed.
He established his business on St Martin's Lane, selling in particular his Pastilles de Blois made from licorice.
Olcott then started his own apothecary business, which turned into a successful semi-jobbing business located at the corner Madison and Catherine streets.
They remarked they had "too much reason to apprehend" that it had "been of very bad consequence this war." Parr was a member of the African Company of Merchants whose purpose was to lobby in favour of the slave trade.
He served as a physician to several members of royalty and nobility but earned notoriety after several of his cures were questionable and proved deadly.
Wiegleb analyzed minerals, the formation of saltpetre on walls and the formation of silicic acid from the reaction of hydrofluoric acid and glass.
Dubbed "The Cliffs", it overlooked the Schuylkill River near Gray's Ferry, just upriver from the Bartram estate.
He published an account of his travels in 1617, Voyages en Afrique, Asie, Indes orientales et occidentales.
He was also for many years the treasurer of the London Annuity Society for the benefit of the widows of apothecaries, in Chatham place, Blackfriars, of which institution his father was the founder in 1765.
On completion of his apprenticeship he went, as was the custom of the day, for further education at a continental University.
Works In Leonard Plukenet's Mantissa, published in that year, he is mentioned as the discoverer, in Tothill Fields, Westminster, of the plant now known as Rumex palustris, and was described (p.
During the last years of her husband's life she managed the pharmacy as he was bedridden and ill, and upon his death she inherited the pharmacy and work license in accordance with existing guild regulations.
Agen in the early 17th century was at the crossroads of the religious debate revolving around the new Protestant faith.
He named the white admiral butterfly, and gave the name fritillary to another group of butterflies after the Latin word for a chequered dice box.
In his essay on The Practice and Theory of Inoculation he narrates his experience in three hundred and fifty cases, only one having died by the smallpox so induced.
2012: Bibliography of the entomological literature from the beginning until 1863 : online database – version 1.0 – Senckenberg Deutsches Entomologisches Institut.
After completing his education, he started working for a chemist and was also believed to have provided medical advice and even occasional surgery and midwifery.
Political career At the 1690 English general election Chase was returned as Member of Parliament for Great Marlow in Buckinghamshire.
Bass John in poetry After his release Bass John took as motto on his crest the words, "Sub pondere cresco" which translates as "under weight I grow" or "I thrive under burdens".
He further asserted that the venom is contained in a poison bag (gland), but the snake is only venomous when it is irritated.
After Priestley's publication of a method to make carbonated water, Henry manufactured "artificial Pyrmont and Seltzer waters" for sale in the late 1770s, imitating the famous sparkling mineral waters, e.g.
Mocquet was apparently commissioned by King Henry IV to collect items fitting for furnishing a cabinet of curiosities during his travels.
Life Samuel Doody was the eldest of the second family of his father, John Doody, who according to many sources was noted as an apothecary in Staffordshire.
She was a sister of Sir Walter Peyton of Sutton Coldfield, an adventurer with the English East India Company who served as factor (in 1614) and subsequently captain or commander (1616) of the Expedition, sailing to Bantam (Banten) and Tecoe on Java.
Alderman Sir Samuel Cooke and James La Touche also came forward, and although the views of Lucas and Latouche were practically identical, neither would withdraw.
Rumler and Chambers had come to Kenilworth in the retinue of Prince Charles during his progress when Ben Jonson's, Masque of Owls was performed.
More went on to apprentice under an apothecary in Whitechapel and afterwards opened his own business with his family inheritance.
The opinion was that of Boerhaave, Cheyne, and others, that the development of smallpox after exposure to infection could be checked by a timely use of the æthiops mineral.
He was inducted into the Leopoldina academy in 1722 and was a member of the Royal Society of London.
Bidloo's poetic review of the best Dutch writers constitutes one of the first historical presentations of this literary tradition.
Clarke eventually retired to Loughborough in Leicestershire, leaving his business to his son, William.
He later started a public course in his laboratory in 1738, in 1742 he was appointed experimental demonstrator of chemistry at the Jardin du Roi in Paris.
487-496 Observation sur les différents sels que l'on retire par la lixiviation des cendres du tamaris, pris en différents lieux, Académie royale des sciences, 1779, p.
His description of the natives of South America is sympathetic, and contains detailed descriptions of ethnological interest.
Before the text there are several occasional poems attached by other poets, including fellow Mennonite Pieter Langendijk.
Main works Le Cene (1549), a collection of stories in the manner of Boccaccio, and a number of prose comedies.
'En the ascetic'), En no Ubasoku (役優婆塞, "En the Layman") , or also under the full name En no Kimi Ozunu, where Kimi (君) is his kabane or titular name.
Garencières first came to public attention in 1647, when he claimed that sugar was bad for the health.
The lords justices refused (15 May 1749) his request to transmit it to the king, with a "Dedication to his Majesty." But on the return of Lord Harrington, Lucas waited on him at the castle on 8 October, and gave him a copy, together with a collection of his political addresses.
William Hudson FRS (1730 in Kendal – 23 May 1793) was a British botanist and apothecary based in London.
His second marriage was to Katherine Babington, widow, who was from the same line as Anthony Babington.
He is reported to have discussed this possibility over a Convivio-Medical Society dinner at the Ship Inn in Alveston.
Theophilus de Garencières (1610–1680) was a French apothecary who spent most of his life practising in England.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Goodwin, Gordon (1889).
Later, the company also started providing therapeutic drugs and chemicals such as acids, elixirs, tinctures, and essential oils.
Moyse Charas, or Moses Charas (2 April 1619 – 17 January 1698), was an apothecary in France during the reign of Louis XIV.
His pamphlet was resented by his fellow apothecaries, but was the cause of an act being passed for the inspection of medicines.
1650) was a German apothecary from Augsburg who served the English royal family in the households of Prince Henry, Anne of Denmark, King James and Charles I of England.
He possessed an estate at Roxton, Bedfordshire, the manor of Sharsted, Kent, where some of his descendants still resided as of the 19th century, a mansion in Blackfriars, London, and extensive property in Virginia and the Bermudas.
He managed numerous specimens received by post and was routinely sending collection instructions to his correspondents (he had nearly 80 in America).
He was the son of John Parkinson, an apothecary and surgeon practising in Hoxton Square in London, and the oldest of five siblings, including his brother William and his sister Mary Sedgwick.
Botany In 1711, around the time Sherard finished composing his second set of sonatas, the Duke died, and Sherard's interest in music seems to have died with him.
After witnesses were interviewed and depositions given, the House of Representative voted that Myers was the winner of the election.
He declined to recognise the legality of his restraint or to petition for his release, and was, it is said, only got out at last by a stratagem.
He is described as a 'remarkable man upon whose judgement in difficult negotiations the Company had come to rely with increasing confidence'.
History Because of the unregulated nature of pharmaceutical enterprises throughout much of the 19th century and early 20th century, drugs were sold at many establishments, including bookstores and general stores.
This house may have been intended for his own use or may have been the residence of his natural (illegitimate) children and their mother.
Honours 1776 accommodation into Leopoldina Publications Chemische Versuche über die alkalischen Salze.
As well as the publishing of his works, he had enjoyed a distinguished career as a lecturer in chemistry.
He then worked for Duke Frederik III of Holsten-Gottorp and then King Christian IV who made him his physician.
Lownes also received an allowance for travel and lodging in the Prince's service, of £5 annually, paid by Adam Newton.
Career He served as director and controller of the public schools in Philadelphia from 1860 to 1869.
Parkinson erroneously suggested that the tremors in these patients were due to lesions in the cervical spinal cord.
In 1753 he proved the chemical element bismuth to be distinct from lead, becoming the official discoverer of the element.
Fox, after practicing in Falmouth for some years as an apothecary, "acquired by marriage and his profession a small independence" and decided to try his fortune in London as a physician.
Graham served his apprenticeship in Scotland, from which country he hailed, and was admitted as a "foreign brother" of the Society of Apothecaries on 14 September 1698.
He became the royal apothecary to King Louis XIV, but moved to London to avoid persecution as a Protestant Huguenot.
References External links 'Scent bottle and account of the Prince's Apothecary', National Galleries of Scotland Lowne's bill transcribed in the HMC Calendar of Laing Manuscripts at Edinburgh University
The new bridge, situated next to the Museum of Science, is still referred to as Craigie's Bridge by many.
In April 1660, he became a freeman of Leicester and was elected Member of Parliament for Leicester in the Convention Parliament.
Spreul absented, and was with several other persons denounced and intercommuned, though nothing was laid to their charge but mere nonconformity.
In 1723 his ‘Prælectiones Pharmaceuticæ,’ lectures which had been delivered at his own house, were published with a preface by Dr.
Family He married, 2 September 1784, Esther, daughter of John Barron of Woolacre House, near Deptford, and by this lady, who died 16 January 1834, he left six sons including Barron Field and Frederick Field, and two daughters.
Despite his financial worries with the Queen, his new medical and professional positions and other remunerative civic posts, restored his personal fortune.
Association with Isaac Newton In 1654, William provided boarding to Isaac Newton as he would be attending the King's School with Edward and Arthur Storer.
These facts are proved by his will, dated 19 June 1654, and proved 20 June 1659, and by his funeral certificate in the College of Arms, both of which documents give his age as ninety-four at the time of his death.
A bystander called Gilbert Tonckes joined in and criticised hospitality in Scotland, where it was thought there were few inns offering hospitality on the English model.
The academy consisting of fifteen members would meet twice a week, Tuesdays for mathematics and Saturdays for physics.
Postgate suggested that a system of public analysts be set up charged with monitoring samples of food and drugs, supported by magisterial powers to levy fines on fraudsters.
From 1718 to 1720 he was Garde des marchands-apothicaires in Paris, then later served as inspecteur de pharmacie at the Hôtel-Dieu.
After acting for many years as apothecary to Bethlehem Hospital, London, and obtaining a practical knowledge of nervous diseases, Haslam was dismissed by the governors in 1816 after the publication of the Report of the Select Committee on Madhouses.
While the election was still pending, the death of Alderman Nathaniel Pearson in May 1749 caused a second vacancy in the representation, and Lucas and La Touche became partly reconciled in opposing Cooke and the second aldermanic candidate, Charles Burton.
Career He obtained his "Freedom" from the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries in 1715 having served his seven years' apprenticeship with Thomas Mayleigh.
Miller jailed Zachariah Gillam for customs violations and he also tried to jail George Durant, the leader of the anti-proprietary faction, which led to the Culpeper's Rebellion against him in Albemarle.
David Jackson (1747 – September 17, 1801) was an American apothecary and physician from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
He had married Mary Horwood (1819–1889) during his period in Driffield, who was an educated woman who had hoped to be a writer.
In 1815 his efforts helped obtainthe act of parliament which enforced an examination into the education and professional attainments of candidates for practising as an apothecary in England and Wales.
Sophia James (1798 – London, 10 Dec 1875) who died unmarried Charles James (London, 25 Jan 1799 – London, 12 May 1874 married Windsor 12 Aug 1828, Anne Mary Guion (London, 4 Nov 1798 – London, 12 Mar 1876), daughter of Capt.
He was a founding member of the American Antiquarian Society, and helped establish the Boston Library Society, and the Massachusetts Historical Society.
Sophie (1734–82), the daughter of Louis XV, was interested in scientific objects and had Cornette organize a scientific cabinet for her.
He claimed that oils had a hidden acid which is released while forming soap when reacting with alkali, noting that soap could dissolve minute amounts of silver.
He recorded many English folk-names for butterflies, also coining some himself, and wrote some of the first butterfly books that used English names in addition to Latin.
He examined reversible reactions, following the work of Baumé, and noted that potassium sulphate could be broken by hydrochloric acid.
The candlemaker John Clavie and his business partners were censured for exporting tallow in March 1569.
John Morgan, director-general and chief surgeon of the army hospital, to become one of several Apothecaries General in 1777, responsible for the northern district.
He was supposed to become Master of the Grocers' Company a few months before the time when he was appointed, and asked to be excused from taking office so he could fulfill his duties.
En route to the continent he took a course of anatomy in London from a fellow Scot Dr Robert Erskine of Alva, before further studies at the University of Leyden.
William Pryce (baptised 1735–1790) was a British medical man, known as an antiquary, a promoter of the Cornish language and a writer on mining in Cornwall.
Life He was the son of Joseph Fox the elder, and his wife Elizabeth Hingston; and the brother of Edward Long Fox.
Although Erculiani caught the eye of the Inquisition on numerous occasions, she managed to still be able to publish her writings by deciding to publish in Poland instead of Italy.
The town of Grantham was captured by Royalists on 23 March 1643 and on 11 April he was indicted for high treason.
John Spreull, merchant, headed a country-wide drive to collect money to pay said ransoms." Later in life John Spreul was known for trade in pearls, especially Scottish pearls.
He settled in England and was naturalised as a British subject by Act of Parliament introduced in 1783 (23 Geo.
Haslam was distinguished in private practice by his clinical sensitivity, while his scientific publications and contributions to periodicals gave him a solid professional reputation.
From 1789 to 1801 he served as a trustee of the University of the State of Pennsylvania, continuing through its merger into the University of Pennsylvania.
After the death of the king in 1610, the plans to expand the royal cabinet of curiosities were abandoned.
Legacy The Thomas Henry mixer company was launched in Berlin in 2010, taking its name and inspiration from Thomas Henry.
He served in the American Revolution and worked as a shoemaker before, in 1787, moving to Chambersburg, Pennsylvania and taking up work as an apothecary.
Works Haslam wrote: Observations on Insanity, with Practical Remarks on the Disease and an Account of the Morbid Appearances on Dissection, 1798.
He remained an apothecary for about twenty years, when he acted on his diploma, and practised only as a physician, finally retiring in 1812.
William Sole made his will shortly before his death on 15 January 1802 and left his estate to his siblings living in Cambridgeshire.
Life and work Linck was born in Leipzig where his father, Danzig-born Heinrich Linck (1638–1717), ran the family pharmacy known as "Goldenen Löwen"/"The Golden Lion".
Gideon Delaune, Robert Johnstone, and the Lombard Street goldsmith William Terry were executors of the goldsmith George Heriot, who made a bequest to found a school in Edinburgh now known as George Heriot's School.
Heinrich Emanuel Merck (15 September 1794 – 14 February 1855) was an apothecary whose descendants are the founders of Merck and Company and Merck KGaA.
It was announced in the newspapers that an answer, "published by authority," entitled The Usage of holding Parliaments and of preparing Bills of Supply in Ireland, stated from Record, would shortly appear.
After a solid education in classical letters and a period of apprenticeship, Lambert joined the apothecaries' and surgeon's guild overseeing standards and education at the Collegium Medicum.
In 1749 he started a five-year apprenticeship as an apothecary, initially with Friedrich John in Wangerin, where he served for a year as an assistant.
The common sort of people, he says, were averse to inoculation, and "disputed about the lawfulness of propagating diseases"—the very ground on which smallpox inoculation (variolation) was made illegal in 1840.
Yorke brought the matter before the House of Commons as a breach of privilege (19 February 1810), and Jones was ordered to attend the house.
645-656 Mémoire sur l'action de l'acide phosphorique sur les huiles; et sur la combinaison de cet acde avec l'esprit-de-vin, Académie royale des sciences, 1782, p.
In 1819 he was appointed teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium, later adding the titles Medizinalrat and Professor.
Botanisches Findbuch Between about 1810 and 1829 Ziz compiled a 170‑page handwritten "botanical notebook" (Findbuch) covering the wild plants of Rheinhessen, the Rheingau and the Lower Nahe.
He collaborated with Frederik Ruysch on the first volume of Jan Commelijn's "Horti Medici Amstelodamensis Rariorum" which appeared in 1697 and dealt mainly with plants from the East and West Indies.
In this paper, which was an extension of an earlier memoir on the same subject written in 1744, Rouelle pointed out that the number of known salts had increased significantly during the 17th and early 18th centuries.
John Aubrey took an interest in the horoscope for Thomas Hobbes on which Bernard collaborated with John Gadbury.
Psychologist Carl Jung wrote in his 1960 book Synchronicity that there was a "sometimes quite grotesque coincidence between a man's name and his peculiarities".
Other examples Words 17 letters subdermatoglyphic 16 letters uncopyrightables 15 letters 14 letters 13 letters 12 letters There are hundreds of eleven-letter isograms, over one thousand ten-letter isograms and thousands of such nine-letter words.
Gameplay The play goals and game experience of the Internet version resemble the board game version.
See also Wise and Otherwise References External links Entry on the Canadian Intellectual Property Office's Web site BoardGameGeek entry
The genuine Indian name "Dikshit" ("dick shit") has been repeatedly mocked in mass media, often to the offense of people bearing the name.
Werewords is a board game for 4 to 10 players designed by Ted Alspach and published by Bézier Games in 2017.
Spelling and Anagrams (a set incorporating two distinct games, Spelling and Anagrams) was also published in the 1930s.
A word polygon is a word puzzle where the solver is presented with a grid or shape with 5 to 9 letters.
Discussions on these platforms have included debate over how the language should be shared and who should be considered appropriate custodians of its tradition.
He was the subject of several anecdotes and eventually a comprehensive twelve-page biography by Robert Funt.
The ABC logo was omitted altogether when the DVD set was released, with the CBS logo behind Ludden in the original picture being enlarged.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
Historic rhymes are used by linguists to reconstruct pronunciations of old languages, and are used particularly extensively in the reconstruction of Old Chinese, whose writing system does not allude directly to pronunciation.
In In Your Face, 16 columns of letters are stacked, and the player must make words by using the visible letters in the columns.
Most spoonerisms were probably never uttered by William Spooner himself but rather invented by colleagues and students as a pastime.
Then, each following player in sequence (usually clockwise or counterclockwise) must come up with a word beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
When an open syllable (one that ends in a vowel) has [o] or [e] as its vowel, it is changed to [ɔ] and [ɛ], respectively.
The term has its origin in competitive Scrabble, where a blank tile on a player's rack may be used to form any of several possible words in conjunction with the player's other tiles.
Later writers have come to regard the book as "groundbreaking", noting that it was the first book devoted solely to the description and study of wordplay, rather than simply providing a list of puzzles.
(سلام و علیکو ائ یار قدیمی) Bgofto dokhtarak bose' va me de (بگفتو دخترک یگ بوسئ وه مه ده) maga kuri ke bābāyom nadidi?
This variant of the game is hosted on a website called Germëzhimë, a portmanteau of germë (letter) and gumëzhimë (the buzzing of a bee).
A blanagram (portmanteau of blank and anagram) is a word which is an anagram of another but for the substitution of a single letter.
The two longest continuous trivia contests in the world are the Great Midwest Trivia Contest at Lawrence University and the Williams Trivia Contest, which both debuted in the spring of 1966.
Due to the constraints, West allows himself few liberties here and there, as can be witnessed in this example: See also Abecedarium Alphabet song Alphabiography Pangram == References ==
Much of practical sananmuunnos wordplay revolves around obscene double entendre expressed by spoonerism.
The term "Šatrovački" is attested in Serbian literature since as early as the year 1900, as a secret language of gamblers in Aleksinac.
Similarly cacographic anadromes are also characteristic of Victorian back slang, where for example yob stands for boy.
[...] From the perspective of Haféz as the composer of poetry, biluminosity allows two different points of view to shed light upon each other." See also Contronym Esoteric interpretation of the Quran References External links Īhām in Encyclopædia Iranica
Reception and legacy Beyond Language was not as great a success as Language on Vacation but it still attracted favorable reviews.
Since all the other children spoke Pig Latin, we were superior because Tut was hard to speak and even harder to understand.
From the introduction inside the box lid: RSVP is played on both sides of an upright frame by two players.
A joke about the Fuller Brush Company merging with Schick razors to become the "Fuller Schick Company" (i.e.
The poem shows the flexibility of the Chinese language in many ways, including wording, syntax, punctuation, and sentence structures, which gives rise to various explanations.
"Summer" is a song by Scottish DJ Calvin Harris, released on 14 March 2014 as the second single from his fourth studio album, Motion (2014).
If the answerer uses one of the forbidden words, he/she loses, and the two players might change roles and start a new session.
Dante prized the following sonnet she had composed in this fashion: Notes References ^ This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Gumuțeasca has thousands of words and a rich vocabulary that is very different from standard Romanian.
This is due to an application of the term by Arnobius, and was never common either in Latin or English.
See also Californian English Chinook Jargon Dialect Polari Speech community References Sources Rawles, Myrtle R.
The Embossing Company, formerly Halsam Products Company, also produced a yellow-on-black Eye-Rest set.
Around that time, he was reading "The Gold-Bug" by Edgar Allan Poe and noticed a line containing the English letter distribution.
The 1988 Parker Brothers game Scattergories is a reimplementation of Guggenheim, with a 20-sided die being used to generate random letters.
The purpose of verlan is to create a somewhat secret language that only its speakers can understand.
Alias is a Finnish board game, where the objective is to define words so that other players can guess them.
One essay describing a modern revival of Tut on TikTok characterizes the practice as subject to “secrecy and gatekeeping,” and reports that some participants argue it should remain within African-American descendant communities due to a history of cultural appropriation.
"Single-Snaps" are linear combinations of letters that form one word, while "Multi-Snaps" are combinations that form two or more words.
A sobriquet is distinct from a pseudonym in that it is typically a familiar name used in place of a real name without the need for explanation; it may even become more familiar than the original name.
Merriam-Webster's Befudiom is a word game where teams are challenged to guess selected idioms by acting, shouting, drawing, or spelling them out.
Several studies have investigated the use of this memory mnemonic as a form of an imagery-based memory system within the process of learning a second-language.
In combination with a refrain, it forms a limerick song, a traditional humorous drinking song often with obscene verses.
Tobias Hagge, another German musical comedian, notes that there was also a song popular around 1930, about a woman named Veronika, whose ability to make asparagus grow gives rise to a double entendre.
The passage from the official language to Riocontra occurs as mentioned mainly through the inversion of the syllables, but also with the change of the last vowel and truncation and elision in the last vowel of the neologism formed.
The term charade was borrowed into English from French in the second half of the eighteenth century, denoting a "kind of riddle in which each syllable of a word, or a complete word or phrase, is enigmatically described or dramatically represented".
After decades of history and predecessors, it was widely popularized by the 1972–1978 PBS children's show Zoom.
The r move The pronunciation of the letter "r" at the end of an inverted word risks merging with the next word or even not being pronounced, so it is placed between the two syllables once inverted to make the pronunciation more fluid.
"If you are not certain of any fact," Wittgenstein notes, "you cannot be certain of the meaning of your words either" (OC §114).
Augustine's well-known abecedarian psalm against the Donatists is the earliest known example of medieval rhythmical verse.
Jackbox also produced Dictionarium, with the key difference that the words are all made-up instead of picked from an unabridged dictionary.
Chrząszcz was translated into English by Walter Whipple as Cricket (whose Polish equivalent, świerszcz, is also considered difficult to pronounce for non-Polish speakers).
Originally available over Internet Relay Chat, the game has since been developed into a number of variants, as a download, playable through a browser, via Twitter or through Facebook.
Bait Bazi (Urdu: بیت بازی) is a verbal game and a genre of Urdu poetry played by composing verses of Urdu poems.
The members also write SF poems using other short poetry forms, such as waka, senryū, sijo, kanshi, etc.
Italian authorities hoped the filmmakers corrected the location errors in the novel, to limit the amount of explaining they will have to do for confused tourists.
The only known perfect pangrams of the English alphabet use abbreviations or other non-dictionary words, such as "Blowzy night-frumps vex'd Jack Q." or "Mr.
Edwin Fitzpatrick, the fictional Victorian palindromist to whom Bergerson credited many of the book's palindromes, proved to be a popular character among logologists.
National Scrabble Association The National Scrabble Association has published a set of rules for competitive Anagrams play in tournament setting.
Bengali Notable Bengali books of tautogram features include 'Keshta Kabir Kashtagulo', 'Keshta Kabir Conference' and 'Keshta Kabi' written by Iqbal Sardar Nazmul Kabir.
It aired on The Family Channel (now ABC Family) in 1994, replacing the interactive version of Trivial Pursuit.
Obbligato in music traditionally means a passage is "obligatory" but has also been used to mean "optional".
The magazine also covers closely related forms of wordplay, including calculator words and written charades.
When a player has no cards left in their hand, the round ends and the other players each tally the point value of the cards they hold.
Chicktionary was developed by Blockdot, a Dallas, Texas based developer of games and branded entertainment applications.
The individual can develop a mnemonic peg system in order to remember this association by thinking of a duck with a pot on its head.
Metaphysical poetry as a style was prevalent in the time of English playwright William Shakespeare, who admonished pretension with the phrase "Better a witty fool than a foolish wit".
Šatrovački was initially developed by Roma and various marginal subcultures and criminal groups in Yugoslavia, who employed it as a device of secret communication.
In 2017, a taxi driver filmed protesting against changes to taxi licensing in Melbourne, Australia gave his name as "Tsim Booky" to the Channel 9 Today Show; tsimbouki (τσιμπούκι) refers to fellatio in modern Greek.
For example, a crossword requires players to use clues to fill out a grid, with words intersecting at specific letters.
"Pê" dialect This "dialect" is more like Kongarian (a language game spoken with Hungarian) than the other "dialects" of Língua do Pê.
The humor derives from implying that an assumption (which might otherwise be expected to be controversial or at least non-evident) is so obvious as to be part of the lexicon.
For example, if Aesop's chosen letter was "O", then a player acting as a lion may safely say they have eaten a sheep, but will be punished if they have eaten a fox.
An eodermdrome is a form of word play wherein a word (or phrase) is formed from a set of letters (or words) in such a way that it has a non-planar spelling net.
Paper and pencil games In a paper and pencil game, players write their own words, often under specific constraints.
ŋ́gɔ́zɪ́ wṹ lêm "Ngozi died" becomes: ńtgɔ́tzɪ́ twṹ tlêm or ńtʊ́gɔ́tɪ́zɪ́ tṹwṹ tílèm Here we have some RTR and nasal vowels.
Vice News noticed a heavy police presence in the "high-crime" area where police vigorously pursue misdemeanor violations using tactics such as tailing drivers until they make a mistake, or searching a stopped vehicle for violations that may be unrelated to the reason for the police stop.
In this tradition, possessive pronouns are also capitalized if one is quoting God; "My" and "Mine" are capitalized, which should not be done when a human speaks.
Reception Evan Killham of GamesBeat gave the game a score of 85 out of 100, citing many positives but conceding the requirement for the game to be continually connected to the internet a problem.
A person is said to "suffer" from RAS syndrome when they redundantly use one or more of the words that make up an acronym or initialism with the abbreviation itself.
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
The interactive fiction game Ad Verbum, contains a series of rooms which are described and interacted with, in tautograms.
Awards In 2010, Anomia was the winner of the Mensa Select Game of the Year award and the American Specialty Toy Retailing Association Best Toy For Kids award.
A Slib of Lorey (translation: A bit of folklore) by Edna Sanders English to Boontling by Judy Belshe-Toernblom.
This contrasts with rhyming slang from which the rhyming portion has been clipped, which is part of the lexicon.
A section in the rulebook was titled "How to arrange a Lexicon drive" for the organisation and execution of a party or tournament based on Lexicon.
History Reputed to have originated as a Victorian word game, Anagrams has appeared in many versions since then.
Pictoword also won the Gold Winner awrd at Serious Play Conference Awards' "12 Serious Games Designed for Use in Grades K-12 Education" in 2022.
Green letters indicate that the letter is correctly placed, yellow letters indicate that it is in the wrong spot, and grey letters indicate that it is not in the word.
A team has the option before playing or passing on the first topic offered up to three times during the game.
Bush and Al Gore, two candidates for President of the United States, during the first presidential debate for election year 2000.
It has been said that, since the inhabitants of Totoi were good wood artisans who traded with their products, Totoiana could have been created so that other merchants could not understand them.
As a result, the reader is freed from the obsession to find the 'right answer' through speculation and instead can concentrate on enjoying nuances and being awed by how the slightest shift in perception creates a new meaning.
History Kangaroo words were originally popularized as a word game by Ben O'Dell in an article for The American Magazine, volume 151, during the 1950s, later reprinted in Reader's Digest.
However, George Cadar, a member of the Romanian Association of Semiotic Studies, claims to have recorded a similar form of speech far from Alba County, although he did not elaborate on this.
An entry unique among the group is worth 2 points, whereas an entry shared with another player scores 1 point.
Pat Myers of The Washington Post wrote that, despite being a lifelong promoter of The Washington Post, she found herself in "the thrall of the New York Times Spelling Bee game".
Description Acronymble is a game for 3–8 players that challenges players to move their token around a game board by creating acronyms (known as "noodles") from a random sequence of letters.
Taken together, it means "Symbols in the bowl-like depression on the edge of a long steep sea inlet confused an eccentric person".
A trial exhibit from the 2007 "Scooter" Libby trial included the term, in Libby's daily schedule for June 10, 2003, which showed that Libby had a 6:00 pm "Strategery Meeting" scheduled to last 90 minutes.
Words are required to be regular words of the language played by the participants, and not include proper names or trademarks.
The first published reference to it was in 1851, in Henry Mayhew's London Labour and the London Poor.
The poem was originally written by Hu Mingfu (胡明复) and published by linguist Yuen Ren Chao in Volume 11 of The Chinese Students's Monthly in 1916.
ngware becomes rengwa) See also Costermonger (British street vendors from whom back slang originates) Pig Latin References External links Victorian Web Article John Burkardt's list of back slang words at Florida State University
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
Sonia Sanchez's 1968 play The Bronx is Next includes a scene in which a White police officer arrests a Black person for running while Black.
Etymology Pseudonym comes from the Greek ψευδώνυμον pseudṓnymon 'false name', from ψεῦδος pseûdos 'lie, falsehood' and ὄνομα (ónoma) 'name'.
The longest German heterogram is "Heizölrückstoßabdämpfung" (heating oil recoil dampening) which uses 24 of the 30 letters in the German alphabet, as ä, ö, ü, and ß are considered distinct letters from a, o, u, and s in German.
The New York Times Spelling Bee, or simply the Spelling Bee, is a word game distributed in print and electronic format by The New York Times as part of The New York Times Games.
Some famous examples of that include Samuel Clemens, writing as Mark Twain, Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr.
British journalist Christopher Hitchens published an essay in The Nation in 2000 titled "Why Dubya Can't Read", writing: I used to have the job of tutoring a dyslexic child, and I know something about the symptoms.
Story Houry, Sam's Dot Publishing (an anthology of scifaiku) Dwarf Stars: 30 Stellar Short-Short Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Poems from 2004, edited by Deborah P.
Longest examples In the book Language on Vacation: An Olio of Orthographical Oddities, Dmitri Borgmann tries to find the longest such word.
Some common examples are gros ([ɡʁo], "fat") which becomes gravos ([ɡʁavo]); bonjour ([bɔ̃ʒuʁ], "hello"'), which becomes bavonjavour ([bavɔ̃ʒavuʁ]); and pénible ([penibl], "annoying"), becomes pavénaviblave ([pavenaviblav]).
Turn-taking In some editions of the game, such as the Milton Bradley and Selchow & Righter versions, only the player whose turn it is may form words.
They also have a choice between the conventional "WordZap" mode and the "WordHai" mode, which permits players to create 3-letter words from a set of 21 tiles.
For instance, consider a hypothetical news headline: "The White House loses its balance." In this case, "The White House" is used metonymically to represent the U.S.
He also suggests an alternative term, asogram, to avoid confusion with lines of constant value such as contour lines, but uses isogram in the article itself.
In 2008, Parker Brothers released a self-contained version of the game with the dice sealed inside a plastic unit and featuring an integrated timer.
(e.g.: If a contestant guessed all three words in part one and there was 7 seconds left, each word would be worth $110) Naming all three passwords this time added $10 for each second left.
CBS replaced Heart on March 26, 1973, with the youth-oriented The Young and the Restless, causing Password and Jeopardy!
The metre of Mickiewicz's sonnet is the Polish alexandrine (tridecasyllable, in Polish "trzynastozgłoskowiec"): 13(7+6) and its rhymes are feminine: [anu] and [odzi].
The word redrum (i.e., "red rum") is used this way for murder in the Stephen King novel The Shining (1977) and its film adaptation (1980).
Examples The English language has a very large number of single-word anadromes, by some counts more than 900.
One of Harris' trademark gigantic synth hooks doesn't hurt its digestibility, either." Robbie Daw of Idolator viewed the track as "a shameless bid at nabbing an 'Umbrella'/'California Gurls'/'Blurred Lines'-like Song Of The Summer anthem".
In Monty Python's Life of Brian, there is an extensive use of Dog Latin as a tool for creating gag names.
The "father" of the Irish bull is often said to be Sir Boyle Roche, who once asked "Why should we put ourselves out of our way to do anything for posterity, for what has posterity ever done for us?".
Sallows has made an extensive computer search and conjectures that there exist only three pure (i.e., no dummy text) English reflexicons.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
The major system is more complicated to learn than simple rhymes or alphabetic pegs, because it associates numbers 0-9 with a specific letter or sound, then larger numbers can combine to create words out of the sounds.
Some assert that the jargon was created by the women, children, and young men in the hop fields and sheep-shearing sheds as a means of recreation, and that it spread through the community as the children continued using it when they grew up.
Mercer made many palindrome submissions to Notes and Queries but did not always claim authorship even when he had indeed penned the palindromes.
Published by JudyBelshe@aol.com ISBN 978-0-9655530-2-5 External links Boontling: An American Lingo History of Boontling at the Anderson Valley Museum Mendocino Middle School Boontling Dictionary Haddock, Vicki.
Q-Less is a single-player word puzzle game in which the player rolls 12 dice and uses the resulting letters to form connected words in a crossword-style arrangement.
A vocabularyclept poem is a poem which is formed by taking the words of an existing poem and rearranging them into a new work of literature.
Similarly, in the episode "Donnie Fatso", a call comes through for a "Yuri Nator" (urinator) from Fat Tony, which is revealed to be an actual bar patron which was misunderstood as a prank call.
In March 2019, criminologist Scot Wortley released a study that found that the RCMP in suburban Halifax, Nova Scotia performed street checks five times more often on Black people than white people.
The poem can be interpreted as an objection to the romanization of Literary Chinese, demonstrating the author's critique of proposals to replace Chinese characters with Latin letters – a move that could potentially lead to the marginalization or elimination of traditional Chinese script.
Origin Balderdash is based on an earlier game, Fictionary, of essentially similar gameplay, varying in that obscure words are found in an unabridged dictionary instead of the definitions and meanings provided on cards.
See also Wordle Natural language processing Semantics Word2vec References External links Official website
Two teams compete over multiple rounds to reach 60 points by guessing items listed on a Topic Card within a time limit.
Personal names (Mark/mark, Will/will), place-names (China/china, Turkey/turkey), company names (Fiat/fiat), names of publications (Time/time) etc.
[Italics in original] Bullinger gives the following example: one may say to another, “You are like a beast.” This would be simile, tamely stating a fact.
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
Other uses Sarah Palin used the term in a 2010 interview with Bill O'Reilly on his television show, The O'Reilly Factor.
Gameplay Each player is dealt ten cards from a pool of 52, each depicting a letter and a point value.
Some common examples are Pig Latin; the Gibberish family, prevalent in the United States and Sweden; and Verlan, spoken in France.
The game has been used in schools to simulate the spread of gossip and its possible harmful effects.
Variants on the alternade include the rebade (a hybrid of a rebus and an alternade), and the subade.
Coxeter cites Vish in his discussion of definitions in mathematics: Vish illustrates the important principle that any definition of a word must inevitably involve other words, which require further definitions.
A common difficulty with language games is that they are usually passed down orally; while written translations can be made, they are often imperfect, thus spelling can vary widely.
There are other examples of vowelless sentences in Czech and Slovak, such as prd krt skrz drn, zprv zhlt hrst zrn, meaning 'a mole farted through grass, having swallowed a handful of grains'.
In popular culture A variant of Ubbi Dubbi was popularized as the signature speech pattern of the cartoon character Mushmouth from the animated series Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids (1972), voiced by Bill Cosby.
There are four possible cards: The usual play Nonsense Word: The players must add a nonsense word to their noodle.
See also Strč prst skrz krk, Czech and Slovak tongue twister and shibboleth References External links ""Chrząszcz brzmi w trzcinie" - J.
Bush's statements were also notorious for their ability to state the opposite of what he intended, including his remarks on the estate tax: "I'm not sure 80% of people get the death tax.
When users believe that they will be rewarded by acquiring a favorable reputation, they are more likely to behave in accordance with the site's policies.
Greg Barlow, the president of the company, stated that the game was "a favorite" within the staff, adding that it would "make a great addition" to the website's selection of games.
Like his earlier single "Feel So Close" and his later single "My Way", Harris returns as a vocalist on "Summer".
Players take turns forming words on the board or, instead of playing a word, may also choose to swap tiles with the pool of currently unused tiles or pass their turn.
An essential feature is the use of full cardinal number names such as "one", "two", etc., in recording character counts.
The root appears 4 times in Genesis 42:7-8 (Jonathan Sacks, The Koren Shalem Humash with Rashi and Onkelos.
Gameplay The game is played by one player from each of the two teams drawing a card (one between the two of them) and looking at the five words on the card.
If a complete word is formed in this way, the player who called the final letter of it loses the round.
A rerelease by Mill Creek, which acquired the rights to the Fremantle game-show DVD sets following BCI's collapse, corrected this error.
It was not a "true" one-syllable article in that some characters were not homophonic, leading Chao to modify the poem over time, leading to its canonical form where every syllable uses /shi/.
The game also ends if three scoreless moves (i.e., passes or tile exchanges) are played in succession, unless the score is zero-zero.
Historic rhymes One example of a historic rhyme (i.e., one that was a true rhyme but is now an eye rhyme) is the following: The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
Other examples are the YAML language, which stands for "YAML ain't markup language" and PHP language meaning "PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor".
The rules used by experienced players can be more stringent, such as allowing the use of only one poet's verses or of one theme.
An example is trousers and its diphthong, ou, which is replaced with wo in the back slang version reswort.
Hans Reichenbach used a similar sentence ("John where Jack had...") in his 1947 book Elements of Symbolic Logic as an exercise for the reader, to illustrate the different levels of language, namely object language and metalanguage.
Jamieson Cox of Time magazine felt that the song "doesn't have much lyrical meat on its bones, but coming on the heels of one of the most severe winters in recent memory, listeners are likely hungry for anything that suggests a warmer, sunnier season.
References Bibliography Aldofre e Nigiova Di Nobru, "Il Riocontra illutostra", Giulio è in Audi editore, 2017 See also Jargon Verlan Vesre Furbesco Farfallino alphabet
Notable games In 2008, 1,330 children and celebrities set a world record for the game of Telephone involving the most people.
The player who passed then flips the timer, and the other player has one minute to give clues to their team, to try to get them to guess each of the five words on the card, where each word in the giver's clues counts as one of the words bid.
The game was nominated for "Best Educational Game" and "Best Puzzle Game" at The Independent Game Developers' Association Awards 2018.
It concluded not only that Borgmann's etymology may be incorrect, but also that the hill does not even exist.
Therefore, the passage is barely comprehensible when read aloud in modern Mandarin without context, but easier to understand when read in other Sinitic languages, such as Cantonese.
Other recognition A copy of Buyword is held in the "Sid Sackson Portal" collection of the Strong National Museum of Play (object 107.873).
In popular culture A game of Anagrams is played in the Alfred Hitchcock 1941 thriller film Suspicion.
Rules may permit or forbid proper nouns (such as names, places, or brands) or other types of words (such as slang).
Rombauer, Captain Blood Returns Raphael Sabatini, Flush Virginia Woolf, Paradise Lost John Milton, Clans of the Alphane Moon Philip K.
Discerning the various layers of meanings would be a challenge to the reader, who has to focus on and keep turning over the passage in his mind, applying his erudition and imagination to perceive alternative meanings.
Price died in 1990, and three years later, Sloan and Stern sold Price Stern Sloan, including Mad Libs, to the former Putnam Berkley Group, which is now known as Penguin Random House.
The word anadrome comes from Greek anádromos (ἀνάδρομος), "running backward", and can be compared to palíndromos (παλίνδρομος), "running back again" (whence palindrome).
A twin kangaroo is a kangaroo word that contains two joey words (for example: container features both tin and can, magister features both master and mister).
Lewis Corner of Digital Spy rated "Summer" three-and-a-half out of five stars, calling it "a bright and vibrant banger destined to soundtrack the warmer months".
Even though vesre has spread to other countries, and can be heard in Peru, Chile and Ecuador, Spanish speakers outside the Río de la Plata area are usually less inclined to use it.
In the days of the Stuarts it was very popular, and is frequently mentioned in the writings of the time.
Neither Piron, nor Marmontel, nor La Motte disdained this ingenious exercise, and early in the 19th century the fashion was revived.
According to the Financial Times, the phrase "mental losses" seemed to be a malapropism of "missile launches".
Charms include: Word Check - ensure all words are legal prior to declaring Bananas Smart Dump and Smart Peel - place Dumped and Peeled tiles automatically to form a word, if the opportunity exists Mini Dump - only one tile is dumped, as opposed to three.
Eberhard was also actively engaged in opposing the Waldensians and wrote a book entitled Liber Antihaeresis (c.
A few typical examples of such compounds: Avyayībhāva (adverbial) Avyayībhāvas ('indeclinable') are adverbial compounds composed of an indeclinable element (an adverb, etc.) and a noun, together expressing an adverb or another indeclinable (avyaya) element.
Praxiphanes (Greek: Πραξιφάνης) a Peripatetic philosopher, was a native of Mytilene, who lived a long time in Rhodes.
According to Ibn Khallikan, Ibn al-Shajari studied philology and poetry in Baghdad under the tutelage of Abu Mu'ammar ibn Tabataba.
The manual opens with a discussion of the fundamental ideas of metre and the chief rules of prosody, and ends with a detailed analysis of the metres of Horace.
"Evidence for Performances of Republican Comedy in Fourth-century Rome." Classical Quarterly 62.1: 415–422.
It is among the first character dictionaries which examined the evolution of characters in detail, and streamlined the "six category" approach to analyzing Chinese writing.
In his criticism, Amoghavarsha I writes that old Kannada is appropriate in "ancient poems" but is insipid in works of the present time, like an "association with an old woman".
Yudhishthir Mimansak , Sanskrit Vyakaran Shastra Ka Itihas,Part-1, Ramlal Kapoor Trust, Hariyana, Third edition 1973 External links online edition
Career Erman and his school at Berlin had the difficult task of recovering the grammar of the Egyptian language and spent thirty years of special study on it.
According to Wittgenstein, philosophical problems arise when language is forced from its proper home into a metaphysical environment, where all the familiar and necessary landmarks and contextual clues are removed.
He later acknowledged the limitations of this work, affirming that he should have looked beyond the results and should not have considered these results as answers, but as the key to arrive at the answers.
From 1978 to 1997, he worked at the Institute of Slavic and Balkan Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Abū Manṣūr Mauhūb al-Jawālīqī (Arabic: أبو منصور الجواليقي) (April 1074–17 July 1144) was an Arab grammarian born in Baghdād, where he studied philology under Khātib al-Tibrizī (1030 – 1109) and became famous for his handwriting.
During the Almohad reforms, he assisted the Almohad authorities in banning any and all religious books written by non-Zahirites during the reign of Abu Yaqub Yusuf, and oversaw the outright burning of such books under Yusuf's son Abu Yusuf Yaqub al-Mansur.
Bohuslav Havránek (30 January 1893 – 2 March 1978) was a Czech philologist, Bohemist, Slavist and literary historian.
In late October 2018, a memorial containing his name alongside over 6,000 others was erected at Kommunarka.
From 1919 to 1952, he was a Professor of cuneiform research and ancient Oriental history at the Charles University in Prague.
The transmitted texts vary slightly in content, owing to the omissions and emendations of later commentators.
In book I he discusses the eight parts of speech; in II the elementary ideas of grammar and of style; in III poetry, quantity, and meters.
Indeed, translation studies are not only based on language issues, but also on cultural contexts between people.
Scholarship Böhtlingk was one of the most distinguished scholars of the nineteenth century, and his works are of pre-eminent value in the field of Indian and comparative philology.
Since the book is supposedly based on a Vita by Suetonius, it is also often titled Vita Suetonii vulgo Donatiana ["The Life [of Virgil], [actually] by Suetonius, [but] commonly called 'by Donatus'"], or Vita Suetoniana-Donatiana.
They felt that linguistics had to deal with present-day reality and it should concentrate on the relation between language, class, and the proletariat consciousness to create a socialist society.
Non-Hindu texts and traditions on grammar emerged after Patañjali, some of which include the Sanskrit grammar text of Jainendra of Jainism and the Chandra school of Buddhism.
Notable differences Some of the differences between the texts are simply varying spelling conventions: *w and *u̯, for example, are only different symbols to indicate the same sound, a consonantal *u, so that *wóĝhom and *u̯óǵʰom are actually the same reconstruction.
Synopsis Universae Philologiae is an early work on comparative linguistics by Gottfried Hensel (Godofredus Henselius; 1687–1767), a rector in Hirschberg (Jelenia Góra), Lower Silesia.
Rutherford (1881); Lobeck devotes his attention chiefly to the later, Rutherford to the earlier usages noticed by Phrynichus.
According to Katan, culture is a shared model of the world, a hierarchical model of beliefs, values and strategies which can guide action and interaction of people.
Awards and prizes Medal “Veteran of Labour” Honoured Science Worker of the Russian Federation Monographs Notes Bibliography Morozova, E.
Both works bear witness to the emergence of the science of Arabic philology, and to the close intellectual contact between the Abbāsid and Umayyad seats of power at Baghdād and Cordoba, respectively.
English bahuvrihis often describe people using synecdoche: flatfoot, half-wit, highbrow, lowlife, redhead, tenderfoot, long-legs, and white-collar.
ISBN 1-877275-34-4.; (2009) Third Edition, edited with a new introduction by James McGilvray, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-70817-3 Aarsleff, Hans (1982).
Between 2010, and 2013, the documentary resources were collected, and the pedagogical material was designed.
It has been suggested that one other text that survives might be Robert's work from his and Hermann's private collaboration: a translation of Euclid's Elements known as "Adelard II", which is usually attributed to Adelard of Bath and sometimes to Robert of Chester.
On 25 January 1938, he was tried in a closed session of the Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the USSR and pleaded not guilty.
The reliability of the source is important, and legitimate knowledge can only come from the Sabda of reliable sources.
This work of Sadr is written in the traditional form of a commentary, where he gives his own text and then comments on the same.
It describes the language as current in his time, specifically the dialect and register of an elite of model speakers, referred to by Pāṇini himself as śiṣṭa.
Skepticism towards translation of cultures Some anthropologists raise objections to translation of cultures.
La sabiduría árabe antigua reflejada en los proverbios de al-Maydānī: traducción y análisis paremiológico de un corpus seleccionado (PDF) (Doctoral thesis).
Naṣr bn ʿĀṣim al-Laythī or al-Duʾalī (Arabic: نصر بن عاصم اليثي; died 708/709) was an Arabic grammarian from Basra.
Shiksha is the oldest and the first auxiliary discipline to the Vedas, maintained since the Vedic era.
Etymology Nirukta (Sanskrit), states Monier-Williams, means "uttered, pronounced, explained, expressed, defined, loud".
According to Cicero, who expressed a poor opinion of his powers as an orator, Stilo was a follower of the Stoic school.
Among Palaemon's ascribed works is a Song on Weights and Measures (Carmen de Ponderibus et Mensuris) now dated to between the late 4th and early 6th centuries.
Lived during the Abbasid period, a period of flourishing of Arabic grammar, linguistic theory, literary criticism, lexicography, etc.
The Neuägyptische Grammatik (1880) dealt with texts written in the vulgar dialect of the New Kingdom (Dyns.
The sixty-six stories cover a wide range of themes, subjects, and styles, including gothic horror, picaresque adventures, and comic, erotic, and moral tales.
Much social, geographical and historical information has been thus inferred from a close reading of Pāṇini's grammar.
In 986, Emperor Taizong of Song ordered Xu Xuan and other editors to publish an authoritative edition of the dictionary, which became the Shuowen Jiezi Xichuan (説文解字繫傳).
The Laghushabdendushekhara (Sanskrit: लघुशब्देन्दुशेखर; IAST: Laghuśabdenduśekhara) is a commentary by 18th century grammarian Nāgeśa Bhaṭṭa on the Siddhāntakaumudī of Bhaṭṭoji Dīkṣita.
External links Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum: complete texts and full bibliography Text of Aphthonius in the Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum.
Bibliography Together with Sima Xiangru, Yang was one of the most famous and illustrious figures of the entire Han dynasty.
Abu Salma Hammad ibn Salamah ibn Dinar al-Basri (Arabic: حماد بن سلمة بن دينار البصري; died 167 AH/783 CE), the son of Salamah ibn Dinar, was a prominent narrator of hadith and one of the earliest grammarians of the Arabic language.
The spiritual meaning of the word with its universe of signification, and its scope of signification, contains an interpretation of meaning that derives from the Christian spirit and is thus a guide to life...
These practices are mostly supported by a strong and consolidated fan base, although larger non-professional translation projects normally apply crowdsourcing models and are controlled by companies or organizations.
Abi Ishaq's work was considered influential upon later grammarians, as he was quoted as an authority by Sibawayh in his seminal work on Arabic grammar seven times.
Succeeding his father, he was appointed to the Naqib office, acting as the head of the Alids in the area.
Theology and thought Joseph Schacht described him as the "solitary representative of historical writing in Mecca in the XIXth century".
He was a specialist in phonology, accentology, historical grammar and lexicography, philosophy of language and history of linguistics.
5th century CE), was an Indian-Hindu linguistic philosopher and poet, known for his contributions to the fields of linguistics, grammar, and philosophy.
Perceived homoeroticism Some historians, including the queer historian John Boswell, have identified what they consider to be a homoerotic or homosexual subtext in Alcuin's writings.
Phonology Vedic differs from Classical Sanskrit to an extent comparable to the difference between Homeric Greek and Classical Greek.
Professor John Earle (Anglo-Saxon Literature, 1884) thinks he aimed at correcting the apocryphal, and to modern ideas superstitious, teaching of the earlier Blickling Homilies.
It sought mainly to help speakers of Koine Greek understand the language of Homer, and other great poets of the past.
Terentianus, surnamed Maurus (a native of Mauretania), was a Latin grammarian and writer on prosody who flourished probably at the end of the 2nd century AD.
Nonetheless, the following additions recommended by the Conference were approved in 1927: ⟨ˑ⟩ could now indicate full length when there is no need to distinguish half and full length.
In the later years of his life, he dedicated his time to teach literature at Baghdad, and he composed a handful of poetry alongside his literary works.
Al-Shihabi was promoted to the rank of secretary-general of the Syrian Council of Ministers in addition to second terms as the governor of both Aleppo and Latakia.
In the accompanying letter he named the translator as "Robert of Ketton from England, who is now archdeacon of the church of Pamplona" (Roberto Ketenensi de Anglia, qui nunc Pampilonensis ecclesiae archidiaconus est).
In between his study of Qur'an reading in his hometown of Mecca and in Basra, he also travelled to learn more about the practice in the Kufan school and in Medina.
Al-Farahidi is referenced throughout Al-Kitāb always in the third person, in phrases such as "I asked him", or "he said".
During his trip he observed and studied the characteristics of the Turkish dialects, ethnography, folk poetry and folk customs of Turkish and other local peoples.
The authorship and date of the oldest Unadi-Sutras (known as the Panchapadi-Unadi-Sutras) is uncertain; some authors would attribute them to Pāṇini himself, others to his predecessors, such as Śākaṭāyana, Āpiśali, or Kātyāyana.
He collaborated with Anna Wierzbicka on Natural semantic metalanguage research and is credited by her with reviving the notion of Leibniz's "alphabet of human thought", or Lingua Mentalis.
Wilbur Samuel Howell, The Rhetoric of Alcuin and Charlemagne, New York, Russell and Russell, 1965 (1941); ed.
"Notes on Some Old Manuscripts of the Adab al-kātib of ibn Qutayba, the Kitāb aṡ-Ṡināʿatayn of Abū Hilāl al-ʿAskarī, and the Maṯal as-sāʾir of Ḍiyāʾ ad-Dīn ibn al-Aṯīr".
His interests also take in semantics, lexicology, lexicography, pragmatics, syntax, inflection, neologism phonology, theories of text and translation, semiotics and the theory of literature.
He held opinions on grammatical and morphological matters, some of which are preserved in his works, others through later scholars discussing or transmitting his positions.
The Book of Han devotes a full two-part chapter to both Yang and Sima, an honor surpassing that of even the most famous generals and ministers.
2015 References External links Arabic-English Dictionary of Qur'anic Usage A Dictionary of Egyptian Arabic: Arabic - English
During more than half of the dialogue, Socrates makes guesses at Hermogenes's request as to where names and words have come from.
A later conviction for publicly lecturing against inviting the United States to enter the war on the United Kingdom's side resulted in six months' imprisonment in Brixton Prison (see Bertrand Russell's political views) in 1918 (he was prosecuted under the Defence of the Realm Act).
2007 Arabic Mustawayāt al-ʻArabīyah al-muʻāṣirah fī Miṣr : baḥth fī ʻalāqat al-lughah bi-al-ḥaḍārah.
From 1917 to 1929, he worked as a high school professor at grammar schools in Prague (in Truhlářská and Dušní streets).
removes the vowel), inserts the vowel *e in a position which does not necessarily match that of the original vowel, and appends an accented thematic vowel (or accents any existing final thematic vowel).
The system thus established is extremely detailed as to śikṣā (phonology, including accent) and vyākaraṇa (morphology).
He was said to be tutor to the children of the governor of Arabian and Persian Iraq, Ziyad ibn Abih.
Ibn al-ʻAlāʼ studied under Ibn Abi Ishaq and among his own pupils were Al-Khalil ibn Ahmad al-Farahidi, Yunus ibn Habib, Al-Asma'i and Harun ibn Musa.
But unlike its contemporaries, it took as its exemplars for such theories not the foremost orators of Greek and Roman antiquity, but Moses and the leading figures of the Hebrew Bible.
El-Said Muhammad Badawi (Arabic: السعيد محمد بدوي, romanized: Al-Saʿīd Muḥammad Badawī; 1929 – March 16, 2014) was a scholar and linguist and author of many works, both in English and in Arabic, dealing with various aspects of the Arabic language.
Compared to previous machine translation systems, which were symbolic systems manually coded by computational linguists, these systems were statistical, which allowed them to automatically learn from large textual corpora.
Feferman's proposal results in a radical restriction of logical terms as compared to Tarski's original proposal.
brute Certain mechanical factors of language function, such as response to stimuli, are evident in both humans and animals; however, Chomsky cites several 17th-century Cartesian experiments that show that the creative aspect of language is specific only to human beings.
The literary evidence that the science of Vyākaraṇa existed in Vedic times abound in the Brahmanas, Aranyakas and Upanishads, states Moriz Winternitz.
Writings The identification of the writings of Michael Synkellos is complicated by the existence of three or four 9th-century writers named Michael who were identified by their office of synkellos.
The denasal diacritic was clarified as being partially denasal: a fully denasal [m], for example, would simply be written [b].
Their work predicted the concept of universal grammar, suggesting that universal grammatical rules may be extracted from all living languages.
While he lived among the Bedouin Qarmatians, he recorded in his book Tahdhib al-Lughat their way of living and learned their idioms and expressions.
The Old English Version of the Heptateuch, Ælfric's Treatise on the Old and New Testament and His Preface to Genesis.
Moreover, until Russell and Whitehead's Principia Mathematica (3 vols.) appeared in 1910–1913, the dominant approach to mathematical logic was still that of George Boole (1815–1864) and his intellectual descendants, especially Ernst Schröder (1841–1902).
Sir Alfred Jules "Freddie" Ayer ( AIR; 29 October 1910 – 27 June 1989) was an English philosopher known for his promotion of logical positivism, particularly in his books Language, Truth, and Logic (1936) and The Problem of Knowledge (1956).
Fifteen works by al-Maydānī are known, of which the most famous is the paremiological Majmaʿ al-amthāl, which remains the "most popular collection of classical Arabic proverbs".
versuum Aeneidos principalium: another teaching aid, using question and answer to dissect the first lines of each of the twelve books of the Aeneid.
Because this arrangement no longer made it clear that the ◌͇ diacritic simply marked a consonant as alveolar and was not specific to labio-alveolars, the nonsibilant alveolar slit fricatives [θ͇], [ð͇] were added to the alveolar column of the consonant table.
As part of his reconstruction, Kircher filled the missing gaps with the hieroglyphs he believed would best fit the text according to his understanding of their meaning.
Collections Split into two levels (ground floor and basement), the museum presents its information via touchscreens accompanied by recordings (headphones), along with games and objects that illustrate the various subjects.
The explanations are not repeated here; details can be found at extIPA or in the relevant phonetic articles.
With the financial support of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Budapest Jewish community he spent five years in Constantinople studying Turkish language and culture.
To take advantage of large, unlabelled datasets, algorithms were developed for unsupervised and self-supervised learning.
His most notable students were: Sibawayh, Yunus ibn Habib, Abu ʿUbaidah, Abu Zayd al-Ansari and Al-Asma'i.
All of the manuscripts of Cato's treatise De agri cultura also include a copy of Varro's De re rustica.
Descendants Following on from his father, Messer Leon's son also became a noted rabbi, physician and author, and defender of the value of the secular disciplines of the Renaissance to Jewish philosophy culture and study.
Dictionarium quatuor linguarum (The Dictionary of Four Languages) is a 16th-century book by the German polymath Hieronymus Megiser that includes a multilingual dictionary and a multilingual grammar of Italian, Slovene, German, and Latin.
The three commentaries on Yaska's Nirukta text are by Hindu scholars named Durgasinha (also known as Durga) who likely lived before the 6th-century CE, Skanda-Mahesvara who may be two scholars who probably lived before the 5th-century CE, and Nilakantha who probably is from the 14th-century.
Notes This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William (1870).
His famous commentaries include the Bŗhadāraņyakopanişad-bhāşya-vārttika and the Taittirīya-vārttika.
Deciphering of the Hittite language To solve the mystery of the Hittite language, Bedřich Hrozný focused on a text passage that reads: nu NINDA-an ezzatteni watar-ma ekutteni.
The area where Danilov and his team worked was the village of Beliki in the region of Poltava, in the summer of 1927.
Notes References Further reading Anne Grondeux (2001), Le Graecismus d'Évrard de Béthune à travers ses gloses Anne Grondeux (2010), Glosa super Graecismum Eberhardi Bethuniensis Capitula I–III: de figuris coloribusque rhetoricis Friedrich Wilhelm Bautz (1975).
Katyayana is identified as the Vārttikakāra of Indian linguistics, who wrote commentaries on Pāṇini's Aṣṭādhyāyi.
While research in the 1960s concentrated on limited language pairs and input, demand in the 1970s was for low-cost systems that could translate a range of technical and commercial documents.
Though there were several schools of Grammar before Panini also, of which Panini gives reference in his work.
It provides insights into the intellectual and cultural life of the German-speaking regions during the late Renaissance and the Reformation, a period of significant social, religious, and political change.
Another aspect of this universality is generative grammar, a Chomskyan approach, which is one finite, ubiquitous aspect of language that provides the "organic unity" of which Humboldt wrote.
In the preface to the first volume he regrets that, except for Alfred's translations, Englishmen had no means of learning the true doctrine as expounded by the Church Fathers of the Latin Church.
Hava Tirosh-Rothschild, Between Worlds: The Life and Thought of Rabbi David ben Judah Messer Leon, pp.
This book contains one of the most complete lists of types of dactylic hexameters in antiquity, including the teres versus, which may (or may not) be the so-called "golden line." Diomedes wrote about the same time as Charisius and used the same sources independently.
Fortunatianus being a common name in the African provinces, it is probable that the author was a countryman of Juba, Terentianus Maurus and Victorinus.
After the fall of Northern Qi, Zhitui became an official of the Northern Zhou, and moved his family to Guanzhong.
a prominent philologist of his time, known for his talents and the transmitting of philological knowledge.
But the main contributions of Patañjali lies in the treatment of the principles of grammar enunciated by him.
The works of both grammarians are valuable, but whereas much of Charisius has been lost, the Ars of Diomedes has come down to us complete (although probably abridged).
Burnell believed that most non-Pāṇinian systems of Sanskrit grammar were traceable to this school of grammar, believed to be the oldest and reputed to be founded by Indra himself.
He became an admirer of the Warring States period Chu poet Qu Yuan, and an imitator of his own Shu forebear Sima Xiangru.
991, ISBN 0631149651 {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) Lejay, Paul (1911), "Priscianus" , in Herbermann, Charles (ed.), Catholic Encyclopedia, vol.
Alphabet The author of the First Grammatical Treatise proposes that long vowels be marked with an acute accent, e.g.
Hanley, associate director for LANE, developed a system for recording sound on aluminum discs using automobile batteries as a power source.
The rime dictionary is a type of dictionary arranged by tone and rime, in which the pronunciations of characters are indicated by fanqie spellings.
The humanists had interpolated other materials into the Vita Vergili to add details and fill in gaps, and these interpolations are collectively called Donatus auctus ["the augmented Donatus"].
To avoid the possibility of confusion the extIPA symbol was changed to reversed ⟨𝼃⟩, and the opportunity was taken to add analogous letters for voiced [𝼁] and nasal [𝼇].
Auraicept na n-Éces : the scholars' primer ; being the texts of the Ogham tract from the Book of Ballymote and the Yellow Book of Lecan, and the text of the Trefhocul from the Book of Leinster (Repr.
Abu al-Hasan would therefore become a faithful disciple of al-Kisai, and he showed great interest in grammar and philology.
Overview The most common texts orthotes onomaton appears in are Plato's works Cratylus, Protagoras, and The Republic.
2019 The Shalom Spiegel Institute Summer Seminar in Medieval Hebrew Poetry dedicated to the work of Abraham Ibn Ezra.
It can be considered the first book ever printed in Greek, since it bears a Greek title-page and the text contains large parts in the language.
German publications on the occasion of the 1150th anniversary of his death: Hans-Jürgen Kotzur, ed., Rabanus Maurus: Auf den Spuren eines karolingischen Gelehrten.
Biography Helimski graduated in 1972 from the Department of Structural and Applied Linguistics at Moscow State University.
These are written in the form of a dialogue, and in two of them the interlocutors are Charlemagne and Alcuin.
Avotins "The sophist Aristocles and the grammarian Phrynichus", Parola del Passato 33 (1978), 181–91 J.
It is a commentary on and rearrangement of 700 sutras composed by Narendra and includes around 900 rules.
This helped to advance understanding of how the fields of internal languages are demarcated and he assisted the development of the empirical study of linguistics.
His scholarship on the philologist Sībawayh’s grammar, Al-Kitāb, led to his appointment as tutor to the son of the humanist caliph Ḥakam II, the crown prince Hishām II.
The Wafayat al-Ayan (Obituaries of Eminent Men) by Ibn Khallikan contains a similar account with additional information: Great diversity of opinion exists about his name, surname and genealogy.
After the subsequent coup of Adib Shishakli, al-Shihabi was designated as Syria's ambassador to Egypt.
1498), more usually called Judah Messer Leon (Hebrew: יהודה מסר לאון), was an Italian rabbi, teacher, physician, and philosopher.
For the first time, labial sounds were shown on the left and laryngeal ones on the right: ⟨ř⟩ was added for the Czech fricative trill and ⟨ɛ̈⟩ replaced ⟨ä⟩, following their approval in 1909.
He posited that language and cognition are linked and that by understanding grammar one can attain spiritual liberation.
He lived in the taifa principality of "Dénia and the Eastern Islands" (طائفة دانية والجزائر الشرقية) under the rule of Emir Mujahid al-Amiri al-Muwaffaq (الأمير مجاهد العامري) (1044-1014) and he travelled to Mecca and Medina.
On 1 October, in the Butyrka prison, he requested in writing that the NKVD halt severe interrogation methods against him, arguing that they made him issue false statements that confused the investigation against him.
Works Kitab al-Tafsir (كتاب التفسير; Book of Interpretation) Yaqin al-Bulagha' (يقين البلغاء; The Certainty of Eloquent Men) al-Tasrif (التصريف; Morphology) See also List of pre-modern Arab scientists and scholars == References ==
Gustav Bergmann (Austrian German: [ˈbɛrɡman]; May 4, 1906 – April 21, 1987) was an Austrian-American philosopher.
लौकिक or classical) As per another legend, it is one of the eight forms of marriage where the bride's father receives a pair of kine from the groom.
It was generally accepted that creative poets often embed and express double meanings, ellipses and novel ideas to inspire the reader.
Danilov's influence on the new linguistic movement likewise brought him into conflict with the exponents of Marrism, who used the term "danilovščina" (даниловщина), coined by Jakubinskii, to denounce Danilov's ideas as a dangerous tendency for the development of new linguistics.
For example, a human brain seems to exhibit a capacity for thought when none of its neurons exhibit any such capacity.
Tiberius and Claudius both felt he was too dissolute to allow boys and young men to be entrusted to him.
Listing of pronouns ("pronoun" is not an accurate translation but is commonly used as the list includes 'he', 'she', 'it', but also 'all' (from which the group gets its name), 'that').
Ivanov's dictionary, which was at his home at the time of his arrest and execution in 1937, has never been seen since.
Death and legacy Erman said that the so-called pseudo-participle(also known as old perfective or stative) had been, in meaning and in form, a rough analogue of the Semitic perfect, though the original employment of the pseudo-participle was almost obsolete in the time of the earliest known texts.
Seeing this difficulty, there was a need to invent such a method in which all sutras necessary for the achievement of a particular experiment are available at one place.
de metris omnibus explicit liber iiii ("here ends the 4th book of Aelius Festus Aphthonius's de metris omnibus").
The pair lived in the Sui dynasty (581–618), and their work ensured the long-term survival of the Shuowen.
ad-Du'ali's large-dot system addressed both of these, resolving readers' confusion and making clear how to read and write Arabic words.
He rejects mind-brain identity theories, as well as functionalism, eliminativism and other forms of reductionism.
At his time he was one of the most recognised scholars of the Turkish folk literature and Turkish dialectology.
Influence of the Tower of Babel myth The book proposes to present all the world's languages known at the time together with their various writing systems.
At the University of Vienna, he studied Akkadian, Aramaic, Ethiopian, Sumerian and Sanskrit, as well as the cuneiform used in Asia Minor, Mesopotamia and Persia.
7, Albany: State University of New York Press Ṭaghrī-Birdī (Ibn), Abū al-Maḥāsin Yūsuf (1956) [1929].
Other prominent examples are Greek mythological figures like Aphrodite from avrat, or Artemis from tertemiz.
Late Middle Ages A group of Middle English Bible translations were created: including the Wycliffean Bibles (1383, 1393) and the Paues' New Testament, based on the Vulgate.
The young linguists of Jazikofront, together with Danilov, shared the conviction with Marrists that Indo-European linguistics was an obsolete approach to the study of language, but their conclusions about what should replace it were different.
Data can be exported in CSV format and is available through online databases and public repositories, including an open-access GitHub repository.
Praxiphanes also wrote a works titled On Friendship, On Rare Words, On the Universe, On Poems, and commentaries on Homer's Odyssey, Hesiod's Works and Days, Sophocles' Oedipus at Colonus, and Plato's Timaeus.
These definitions refer only to items taught in the grammar or its ancillary texts such at the Dhātupāṭha; this fact is made clear in P.
Works Kitab al-Amaly (كتاب الأمالي; Book of Dictations) Commentary on the Jumal of Ibn Jinni Commentary on the Tasrif al-Muluki Hamasa See also List of pre-modern Arab scientists and scholars == References ==
Life Ibn Salamah was born roughly in 82 AH (701/702 CE) and died of natural causes in 167 AH (783/784 CE).
Kavirajamarga (Kannada: ಕವಿರಾಜಮಾರ್ಗ) (850 C.E.) is the earliest available work on rhetoric, poetics and grammar in the Kannada language.
He notes that missionaries will inevitably accompany the host and attempt to convert the "Saracens".
Beginning in 1945, he was professor at the Charles University in Prague, later becoming head of the Department for the Czech Language, then Phonetics, then General Linguistics, and finally Dean of the Faculty of Arts.
According to the Indian tradition, the purpose of a vārttika is to enquire into what has been said (ukta), what has not been said (anukta), and what has not been said clearly (durukta).
The field grew probably because almost a quarter of words in the Vedic texts composed in the 2nd-millennium BCE appear just once.
Ignác Kúnos (originally Ignác Lusztig; 22 September 1860 in Hajdúsámson, Hungary – 12 January 1945 in Budapest, Hungary) was a Hungarian linguist, turkologist, folklorist, a correspondent member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.
Having learned the Qur'an by the age of ten in his village, El-Nakhas, Sharqiyya Governorate, he attended Al-Azhar University for his secondary schooling.
Uttering the nāda induces the same mental state or sphoṭa in the listener - it comes as a whole, in a flash of recognition or intuition (pratibhā, 'shining forth').
Later in the Tang dynasty (618–907), Li Yangbing (713–741) prepared an edition, though this version is lost as well.
Kircher's approach to translation was to assume (incorrectly) that hieroglyphs were ideographs rather than representations of sound, and that they communicated ideas without grammar or syntax.
In 1151, Robert's bishop, Lope de Artajona, sent him as his delegate to a conference to resolve the disputed boundary between the dioceses of Pamplona and Zaragoza.
The period following the death of the Abbasid caliph Hārūn al-Rashīd (809) until the accession of al-Maʾmūn (813) was one of unrest that greatly affected the churches of Palestine.
A former Moroccan soldier, M'barek Daoudi, who served more than 33 years in the Moroccan army and retired in 2008, said in an interview that he witnessed the execution of two Sahrawi women in the Amgala area on 12 February 1976.
Conflicts In 1735 and 1736, at the start of the salmon season, there were again insults thrown and mass struggles between the fishermen of Neudorf, Hüningen and Kleinhüningen.
During the meeting, the Ethiopian camp was flown over by Italian reconnaissance aircraft which made some low-flying flights for intimidating purposes.
Iptihar Abduresit The Congress also maintains representatives in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Kyrgyzstan, Japan, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
The Miss Stone Affair (Bulgarian: Афера „Мис Стоун“, Macedonian: „Афера Мис Стон“) was the kidnapping of American Protestant missionary Ellen Maria Stone and her pregnant Bulgarian fellow missionary and friend Katerina Cilka by the pro-Bulgarian Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization.
Part 7 was succeeded by the Terrorism (Northern Ireland) Act 2006, which in turn was succeeded by the Justice and Security (Northern Ireland) Act 2007.
Three Stars There is three stars on top of the emblem which represent three independent states which existed in or throughout the East Turkestan territory.
Dissenting Opinions Vice-President Badawi, Judge Klaestad (with Judge ad hoc Fernandes), and Indian Judge ad hoc M.
An area of 544 square kilometers (210 sq mi) was affected, including all or part of the German border districts of Bitburg, Our, Saarburg, and Prüm, the population of which was 31,188 people.
… [W]hen the Dancing Molly got safely out the group of Virginians chivalrously gave three cheers for the pirate's wife and daughters.
Per Roosevelt's request, Universal Pictures edited the sequence out of its newsreels to quell a political crisis.
Radio Prague, 4 October 2004 Souboj nad Železnou oponou (Duel Above The Iron Curtain), 2000 article by Tomáš Soušek (in Czech) 23 March 1953 article from Life Magazine, pages 29 – 31, (via Google Books)
Fourteen policemen died at the scene and two died on the way to the hospital; another 16 policemen were hurt, Xinhua state news agency reported.
Casualties and aftermath The retreat of the Polisario forces was met with fierce resistance from Mauritanian troops, particularly near the settlement of Bennichab on June 9.
The fishermen pursued the boat, attacked it with stones, and finally set two fishermen to stand guard with spears while the others robbed the Antelope party.
Two bodies were recovered, thirteen more persons were declared missing and presumed dead several days later.
Prelude After the end of the Second World War, the United States created military bases in West Germany, and their military planes often flew over the territory of Czechoslovakia.
In a February 2025 poll of 871 registered voters in Florida who were active by the University of North Florida found that 58% of overall respondents opposed renaming the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America, 31% supported it, 10% said they were not sure and 1% refused to answer the question.
A US intelligence monitoring group stated that the ETIM planned to carry out terrorist attacks during the week before the opening ceremonies of the Olympic games.
Police investigators reported that they had recovered documents calling for a holy war, a homemade firearm, and nine explosives, whose design was similar to the explosives found in a raid on an ETIM facility in January 2007.
At this moment, the two forces engaged each other with heavy gunfire, and the Cypriots opened fire on the Egyptian C-130H aircraft with a 106 mm anti-tank M40 recoilless rifle, striking it in the nose and killing the three crew on board.
Criticism expressed that Bildt did not put sufficient pressure on the Ethiopian government to release Schibbye and Persson.
Dredging by Nicaragua within the San Juan River itself was allowed to continue, as Nicaragua has sovereignty over the river proper.
Anderson documents a fourth account by a Virginian deserter, named Denis Kaninguen, and speculates that Kaninguen was one of Tanacharison's followers.
It subsequently split into the modern states of Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, North Macedonia and Montenegro between 1991 and 2006.
Though America and China were allies, skirmishes between armed Chinese and foreigners became more and more common and would continue long after World War I.
With the transformation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia into Serbia and Montenegro and the dissolution of that country in 2006, Serbia is considered its legal successor.
20th century Since then, the Chams rebelled a number of times against Vietnamese domination, with the most important rebellions occurring in the 19th century with the Katip Sumat uprising, the first and only jihadist war in Vietnamese history to date, and the Ja Thak Wa uprising.
Two other Croatian-Australian members of the HRB had been recruited for the Bugojno incursion but police action prevented their participation.
Many scholars maintain that Ming China (1364–1644) possessed no administrative control in Tibet, while some scholars indicated that Imperial Chinese superiority continued after Yuan and lasted until Qing.
The Court held that there is no source of international law that explicitly authorises or prohibits the threat or use of nuclear weapons but such threat or use must be in conformity with the UN Charter and principles of international humanitarian law.
Background to Conflict, Barnes & Noble Books (ISBN 0-389-20148-0) Diego Aguirre, Jose Ramón (1991), Guerra en el Sáhara, Ed.
The Young Kashgar Party (Chinese: 青年喀什噶爾黨) was a Turkic nationalist Uighur political party which existed from 1933 to 1934.
WTO dispute resolution favored Canada, both in a 1997 panel decision and in a subsequent decision by the WTO Appellate Body.
It is marked by the Philippines publicizing of altercations involving China and Filipinos including fishermen and personnel of coast guard and the navy.
UK and NI government discussions about name change Ahead of the renaming of the Irish Free State to simply Ireland in 1937, the British Prime Minister and the Home Secretary discussed the matter with the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, Lord Craigavon when he was in London in July 1937.
16257, issued in 2013 for more than €1.5 billion, which ordered Congo to pay for public works contracts dating back to the 1980s.
Settlement On 16 February 2026, four Chagossians (including Misley Mandarin, acting as self-declared First Minister of a Chagossian Government-in-Exile) landed on Île du Coin, becoming the first Chagossians to reside on the islands since the expulsions of the 1960s and 1970s.
The Chechens suffered another heavy defeat, and Gelayev decided to lead his men to take shelter in the Pankisi Gorge, 25 miles south of the Russian-Georgian border.
See also List of International Court of Justice cases References External links Case concerning the Application of the Convention of 1902 governing the Guardianship of Infants (Netherlands v.
On October 1, 1955, Chinese Communist Party Chairman Mao Zedong designated Xinjiang a "Uyghur Autonomous Region", creating a regionwide Uyghur identity which overtook Uyghurs' traditionally local and oasis-based identities.
The declaration became an issue when the question was raised whether the statement was binding on Norway.
Renaming in English Change in official English spelling The renaming of cities is often specifically from English to Indian English in connection with that dialect's internal reforms.
The official title of the case was Australia — Measures Affecting Importation of Salmon, Dispute DS18.
The Association of Catfish Farmers of America represented these American domestic producers to file lawsuits against the mass imports of Vietnamese catfish starting in 2001.
response The US responded by activating Task Force 71 (TF-71) to protect future flights over those international waters.
By this time, the fighters were running out of fuel and, as the defence system dictated, started to land at the nearest available airfield.
Most Spanish language placenames in the Falkland Islands are quite different in origin from their English language equivalents, and many have religious resonances.
With dusk approaching the Marines began to withdraw and again came under fire from the VC, the Marines then called in an artillery and mortar barrage and four 105mm shells and 21 81mm mortar rounds hit the VC positions.
Rebiya Kadeer, a Uyghur human rights activist, called for an independent UN investigation into the raid, while Alim Seytoff, executive chairman of the World Uighur Congress, claimed the Chinese government has yet to produce evidence to substantiate the camp's connections to terrorism.
In mid-April 1949, Belgium surprisingly waived any interest in most of the previously claimed areas.
In 1941, the government published a German edition of Finnlands Lebensraum, a book supporting the idea of Greater Finland, with the intention of annexing Eastern Karelia and Ingria.
The kidnapping was successful, but was witnessed by Dikko's secretary, who notified the authorities.
Frederick Steinbeck, suffering of his gunshot wounds, remained immobile, and shortly died from his wounds.
Facts In 1987–1988, the United States destroyed three offshore oil platforms owned by the National Iranian Oil Company as a part of Operation Praying Mantis in retaliation for the collision of the USS Samuel B.
He announced that Guinea’s “deepest desire [was] to remain in the franc zone,” with freedom of capital movement between the two countries.
The phrase "peace, order and good government", they thought, should be understood as referring not just to the inhabitants of BIOT but to the governance of the region.
The United States would play a significant role in Japan's acceptance of a global moratorium on commercial whaling due to its domestic laws.
The British government responded by sending HMS Endurance with 22 Royal Marines to expel the Argentines, but they were held off to avoid increasing the tension.
See also First East Turkestan Republic Second East Turkestan Republic Timur Beg Young Bukharians Young Khivans Young Turks == References ==
The United Kingdom claimed that Jersey had historically exercised legal and administrative jurisdiction over them.
The wall was built in six stages, and the area behind the wall was expanded from a small area near Morocco in the north to most of the western and central part of the country gradually.
However, the actual control of Morocco covers only about 80% of Western Sahara, the portion west of the Berm wall.
Sir Julian Pauncefote, the British ambassador at Washington, having failed to obtain an assurance that British vessels would not be interfered with, laid a formal protest before the United States government.
It has been called the "Jacuzzi of Despair" because it is warmer at 18 °C (65 °F) compared to the surrounding water at 4 °C (39 °F).
The Moroccan Army's 6th Motorized Infantry Regiment, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Mohamed Ghoujdami, was called in as reinforcements but did not arrive until after the cessation of hostilities.
Protests broke out in Shanghai, which ultimately forced the Chinese government to make an apology and pay $25,000 to the United States.
In December 2015, Ecuador stated that it had reached a deal with Sweden which would allow him to be interviewed in the embassy.
Before, the exact route of the barrier had not been determined, and it had been alleged by opponents that the barrier route would encircle the Samarian highlands of the West Bank, separating them from the Jordan valley.
History According to its former members, the Uyghurstan People's Party was founded in or a few years before 1967 or 1968.
He was then dismissed from university but completed his physics degree via independent study, and went on to receive a master's degree in Politics and Sociology from Gazi University in Turkey and a degree in Computer Science in Munich, Germany.
All of these rebellions were eventually suppressed by the Vietnamese government, and the Cham population was significantly reduced.
Marines had been working to disarm illegal checkpoints set up by KLA fighters who were slow to comply with the demilitarization agreement.
Incidents The incidents embraced two regions in Nagorno-Karabakh (Tartar Rayon, Agdam Rayon) and one region out of it (Goranboy Rayon).
However, proper documentation that would have ensured that the cargo could not be inspected was not provided.
A large number of dual names have been conferred not by the NZGB, but were negotiated as part of Treaty of Waitangi claims settlements and then enacted by Parliament.
In 2021, the New Zealand Geographic Board voted to standardise the orthography of dual place names, and is in the process of updating names which use parentheses to the more common forward slash.
The Court's decision reflects a growing reliance on international law to confront the climate crisis, alongside similar proceedings at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.
Under the agreement, Morocco annexed the northern two-thirds of Western Sahara as its Southern Provinces, and Mauritania annexed the southern third as Tiris al-Gharbiyya.
On this issue, the court found that "the civilian population affected by the present conflict is extremely vulnerable.
Uyghur linguist Ibrahim Muti'i opposed the Second East Turkestan Republic and the Ili Rebellion because it was backed by the Soviets and Stalin.
Former ETR education minister Seypidin Azizi and former ETNA officer Batur Asharkhinov, both speaking in retrospect decades after the ETR's dissolution, gave conflicting eyewitness accounts of the colour of the star and crescent.
The report also noted that "Russian claims the missile had been fired by Ukrainian soldiers and that a Ukrainian fighter jet had been flying close to the passenger jet were false".
The Viking was on a scheduled commercial flight from London via Hamburg to RAF Gatow in the British Sector of Berlin.
The Jean Baptiste Say was hit several times by cannon fire and the captain was forced to ground her on Laem Lamphu Rai.
More than 2,000 people were forcefully relocated to Mauritius between 1967 and 1973, so that Diego Garcia could become a United States military airbase.
Many Chinese geographical entities (and associated entities named after geographical names) thus had their English names changed.
Six Moroccan observation posts or bases were taken by the Polisario, the Moroccan soldiers were surprised, but the attack was finally repulsed and the Polisario suffered heavy losses because of the Moroccan air force.
Duterte previously insisted that publicizing China's actions would provoke it to be more aggressive.
As of 2011, the Section 44 powers effectively no longer exist (see above), and police must "reasonably" suspect an individual of involvement in terrorism before intervening.
Accordingly, at 15:00 Armenian troops allegedly opened fire from Agdam Rayon, killing one Azeri soldier.
Reception, awards and festival screenings Stealing a Nation was awarded the 2004 Royal Television Society Award in the category "Single Documentary - General".
The Arabic word Shaṭṭ (شط) meaning delta, could also be an etymology of Chittagong, the Ganges delta, Shaṭṭ Al-Ghānj (شط الغانج).
The Morrison incident (モリソン号事件, Morison-gō Jiken) of 1837 occurred when the American merchant ship Morrison, headed by Charles W.
The T-33 air incident was just one of at least eight that occurred between Albania and foreign powers from 1948 to the late 1970s.
Travellers can cross the Malaysia–Singapore border for the purposes of family, business, and recreational trips.
The examination and identification of the bodies was conducted at the Netherlands Army medical regiment training facility in Hilversum and was coordinated by a Dutch forensic team.
The document included information on crimes committed against Serbs in Gospić, Sisak, Pakrac, Karlovac, Osijek, Paulin Dvor and during the operations Operation Flash, Operation Storm and Operation Medak Pocket.
Former militant leader François Sargentini claimed that Aleria deepened the division between autonomists and independentists and communist activist Dominique Bucchini said that the incident "worked like a trap", diverting efforts and highlighting excesses, like xenophobia.
Febiger, in order to visit the scene of the wreck and to try (unsuccessfully) to get foreign officials in Taiwanfu (Taiwan's capital), where he arrived on 18 April) to act.
Unanimously, related environmental treaties such as the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and the Convention to Combat Desertification also impose relevant obligations to protect the climate.
Abu Hafs al-Urduni (1973–2006), third Emir of the Mujahideen in Chechnya, was likely the "Abu Hafsi" reported to have been "running financial operations in the gorge," and to have supervised the building of a hospital for fighters, but to have escaped to Chechnya before being apprehended.
2nd General Assembly From 24 to 27 November 2008, the World Uyghur Congress has successfully held its Second Assembly in Munich, Germany.
Under the JCPOA, some of the sanctions against Iran were lifted in exchange for Tehran accepting some limitations on its nuclear program.
Earle, accompanied by Clarence Miller, met with Zaragoza who apologized, explaining his men were "evidently ignorant of the first laws of war." Within an hour of their arrest, the whaleboat had returned to Dolphin.
According to the Prime Minister of Lebanon, Najib Mikati, the soldier will be prosecuted by the Defense Ministry for his actions.
After several warnings, four of the activists were arrested by the Spanish regulars who guard the territory, three of the assailants managed to escape to Moroccan territory.
During the battle, two UNIFIL peacekeepers were killed: Stephen Griffin, a 21-year-old private from the 46th Irish Battalion (and a native of Rahoon in County Galway), and Sevati Sovonaivalu of the Fijian Army.
Eventually, the hunters who were involved in the fight were told to report to Flagstaff for a hearing in court, which they refused to do at first.
Judgment On 1 July 1952 the ICJ ruled that it had no jurisdiction in the issue of Mr Ambatielos' trial, but had jurisdiction to decide whether or not the UK is obliged to enter into an arbitration process under the Greco-British Treaty of Commerce and Navigation.
The school had had an obligation to report the allegations to the police prior to arranging her departure.
The Attack on Lebouirate was a significant military engagement that took place during the ongoing Western Sahara conflict between the Moroccan government and the Polisario Front.
11 February: The SPLA stated it had launched bombardments on Moroccan positions located in the Grarat Alfarsik and Udey Damràn regions, in the Mahbes sector.
In the book he explained that the American flag had been fired upon by a foreign government and that the next contacts with Japan "had better be left to the stronger and wiser action of the American Government".
There were two major issues under Article 36 that were being disputed by the two parties: the question of the nationalities of the individuals being executed as well as the meaning of the phrase "without delay".
See also East Turkestan independence movement East Turkestan Liberation Organization 2008 Uyghur unrest Politics of the People's Republic of China == References ==
A checkpoint was set up by the Gardaí and the Irish Army on Flagstaff Road in the townland of Cornamucklagh, some 700 metres inside County Louth in the Republic.
The raid also resulted in the death of one Chinese paramilitary officer, Huang Qiang, age 21, and the injury of another officer.
At least two shots from fortress hit the Inconstant, but more effective action was prevented by a lack of training at the fort.
Marine Corps Sergeant Onnie Clem later reported: "Up on the bridge there was a machine gun spraying the hatch.
Muslim ethnic groups in different regions are treated differently by the Chinese government with regard to religious freedom.
Murphy's bombs were responsible for at least a few deaths on the Mexican side of the border, but nobody was killed on the American side.
Geography The Gulf of Mexico's eastern, northern, and northwestern shores lie along the US states of Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas.
In March 2025, the foreign ministers of the G7 countries issued a condemnation of China's "illicit, provocative, coercive and dangerous actions" and formally supported the results of the 2016 South China Sea Arbitration ruling that favored the Philippines.
In May she stood guard off Pointe a Pitre, Guadeloupe, trying to keep the Vichy French government from getting Jeanne d'Arc to sea.
This financial crisis was discussed at the meeting of the leadership of IMRO in Kyustendil, Bulgaria, that summer.
Activists distributing leaflets often faced resistance and attacks from unknown persons, private security or police officers.
Surprisingly, there were also "anti-aircraft ramps," although these were not utilized during the raid.
The court explained that Article IX applied because Russia and Ukraine had a dispute over whether genocide is occurring in Donetsk and Luhansk.
The resulting emissions and activity would be recorded by Project Ibex aircraft on the Iranian side of the border.
Event Dubbed "Grand Slam", the flight was to leave the base in Peshawar and overfly the Soviet Union.
Prior to travelling to Korea, the ship's crew purchased stocks of cotton textiles, tinware, mirrors and glassware from British trading firm Messrs.
The court found that in the 1971 ordinance, the Commissioner had exceeded his authority, and the ordinance was made ultra vires.
Curran was released on January 11, 1958, while the plane was placed in the Gjirokastër Fortress museum.
This refusal led to the ILO's supervisory functions, in particular the Committee of Experts, ceasing to operate properly for more than a decade.
The communications that this activity generated within the National Security network were monitored by the EC-121's parent unit, VQ-1, which sent Deep Sea 129 a "Condition 3" alert by radio at 13:44, indicating it might be under attack.
While they had both lived in the United States since they were four and five, respectively, neither had obtained U.S.
An article from the Geopolitical Monitor argues that Malaysia's recent behavior could be a sign for the beginning of a foreign policy shift, in which Malaysia has shifted from appeasement politics to a non-alignment policy when dealing with China.
However, the Greek Justice Minister refused to grant the required permission to enforce the judgment in Greece.
See also Sahrawi refugees References Further reading Hodges, Tony (1983), Western Sahara: The Roots of a Desert War, Lawrence Hill Books (ISBN 0-88208-152-7) Thompson, Virginia and Adloff, Richard (1980), The Western Saharans.
The 2011 Incheon fishing incident occurred on December 12, 2011, at the island Socheongdo in Incheon, South Korea.
The Moroccan government’s Green March took place on 6 November 1975, in which 350,000 unarmed Moroccans converged on the city of Tarfaya in southern Morocco and waited for a signal from King Hassan II of Morocco to cross the border in a peaceful march.
Two unidentified vessels then arrived in the area, apparently to rescue the disabled Taiwanese vessel, prompting MCS-3001 to disengage and leave.
The Kyrgyz rebels, led by Id Mirab, revolted in the Tian Shan mountains as part of the wider Kumul Rebellion in Xinjiang, until they were quickly defeated by government forces led by Ma Shaowu, the Hui military commander of Kashgar, with some minor assistance of the Soviet Union.
On 12 February 1976 the Moroccan army occupied Al Mahbes, a community 50 kilometres (31 mi) from the Algerian border that commanded the route to Tindouf.
The bombing, although unintentional, is noted for being the first aerial bombardment of the continental United States by a foreign power in history.
The implications of the ruling are that it shows that the US and European Union have used loopholes and creative accounting to continue dumping products on developing markets, hurting impoverished developing country farmers.
According to some accounts, on November 6, Montgomery was caught trying to steal some ponies from a group of Navajo hunters so three of the natives assaulted him in the usual manner.
Pakistan's claims were dropped, without recourse to appeal, and the outcome was seen as a decision highly favourable to India.
Relations with Angola During the movement for Angolan independence in the 1960s, the situation became more complex.
Strategy The transparency initiative seeks to frame China as a "bully" of its smaller neighboring countries in the context of the South China Sea dispute.
Under the Ming tributary system, Japan could present tribute to the Chinese imperial court and be rewarded in the form of gifts by the emperor.
The Pakistani government alleges that he is a spy for the Research and Analysis Wing, India's intelligence agency, and was arrested in the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
On 27 December 2011, a court in Ethiopia sentenced the Swedish journalists to 11 years in prison on charges of supporting terrorism after they illegally entered the country with Somalis.
L5 followed suit and both submarines dispatched a boat with one officer and one sailor each to go aboard the burning Irene.
They have been described as well organized, experienced and as having an important role in offensives against President Bashar al-Assad's forces in Syria's northern regions.
The Lobster War (also known as the Lobster Operation; Portuguese: Guerra da Lagosta; French: Conflit de la langouste) was a dispute over spiny lobsters that occurred from 1961 to 1963 between Brazil and France.
The al-Hamma Incident (Hebrew: תקרית אל-חמה) refers to an event on 4 April 1951 that resulted in the death of seven IDF soldiers at the hands of Syrian military forces.
Vietnam War Student North Vietnamese MiG pilots were sent to China and the Soviet Union for up to three years for training.
The Israeli version was that Syrian troops had entered Al-Hamma and disarmed the local police before firing on the Israeli police.
In June, 1817, Gregor MacGregor, a Scottish adventurer styling himself the "Brigadier General of the United Provinces of New Granada and Venezuela, and General-in-Chief of the Armies of the Two Floridas", came to Amelia Island.
The former master of the captured Texan ship Colombia was on board the Montezuma throughout the incident and he claimed that the Mexicans opened fire after the Ingham discharged a lee gun as a signal to communicate.
All I had was a loincloth." 15 or 20 others were recaptured and taken aboard one of the torpedo boats, where they were executed by firing squad as punishment for trying to escape.
According to the survey, 30% did not know, 28% of Israelis opposed any annexation and 15% supported annexing Area C alone.
The ministerial appointees include two persons recommended by the Minister of Māori Development and representatives of Te Rūnanga o Ngāi Tahu, the New Zealand Geographical Society, the Federated Mountain Clubs of NZ, and Local Government New Zealand.
After the withdrawal of Yugoslav troops, KFOR was tasked with ensuring security, facilitating the return of refugees, and preventing reprisals between ethnic Serbs and Albanians.
That was codified by administrative order in September 2012, which mandated use of that term by departments, subdivisions, agencies and instrumentalities of the Philippine government.
Swedish authorities overrode the Dutch decisions and placed the child under a protective public care order, based on the fact that Marie was residing in Sweden with maternal grandparents.
Equipment Airbases involved were operated jointly by the CIA and IIAF and protected by land mines and razor wire.
See also United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon Israel–Hezbollah conflict (2023–present) 2026 Lebanon war References == External links ==
Pavlović was released from prison in 1990 and was killed in controversial circumstances during the Croatian War of Independence on 18 September 1991.
With him arrived another prominent Uyghur leader Mahmut Muhiti from eastern Xinjiang (Turpan, Kumul) who had agreed to become Minister of Defense in the TIRET Government, accepting the offer of Prime Minister Sabit Damolla.
Notes and references Books Affairs, United States Congress House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on International Security and Scientific (1980).
In 1916, in the midst of the National Protection War, Mongol prince Babojab launched an attempt for Manchu and Mongol independence.
Furthermore, the statement also called all parties to maintain peace, stability and trade in accordance with the UNCLOS declarations, which means that Malaysia will continue the diplomatic approach with other states, including China.
The Air battle over Merklín was an air-to-air engagement between Czechoslovak and USAFE air units over the Czech village of Merklín, in the Bohemian Forest, on 10 March 1953.
Background This battle followed the first battle of Amgala, which pitted the Moroccan army against the Algerian army for the first time from 27 to 29 January 1976.
After the opinion on preliminary matters was handed down, Nauru and Australia negotiated a settlement.
beef." "We are hopeful that Japan’s decision will help lead other markets around the world toward science-based policies," Perdue added.
After that groundwater levels on many places reached pre-reservoir filling levels, on some places reached even higher.
Incident Seven Chinese fishing boats were spotted by a patrol boat from the South Korea Coast Guard.
In addition to offering a right of return for the Sahrawi refugees, the Sahrawi government in exile expressed a willingness to grant Sahrawi citizenship to Moroccan settlers and their descendants in a prospective independent state.
The National Army was inactive in Kashgar and Aksu from 1946 to 1949 until the arrival of People's Liberation Army (PLA) units in Xinjiang.
It called on both States to negotiate in good faith to complete the objectives of the 1977 Budapest Treaty, which the Court declared was still in force, while taking account of the factual situation that had developed since 1989.
Thus, highlighting the Philippines' attempt to offset the disparity in capabilities it has compared to China.
In 2022, UHRP supported the Uyghur Policy Act, which would have created a special coordinator for Uyghur Issues at the U.S.
It remains the only case in which a Convention drafted by the Hague Conference on Private International Law was the principal subject of interpretation by a court with worldwide jurisdiction.
The reparation should thereby consist of a restitution in kind, or if this is impossible, the payment of a sum that corresponds to the value as compensation.
Brazil claimed that lobsters are like oysters in that they cling to the bottom of the ocean and so were part of the continental shelf.
While Pakistan said that the plane was unarmed and the debris was within Pakistani territory, India maintained that warnings had been given to the Atlantic and that its flight trajectory meant it could have fallen on either side of the border.
The Esmeralda's captain was ordered to stop by any means an eventual annexation of Panama by the United States.
Facts A Greek shipowner, Nicolas Eustache Ambatielos, had commissioned nine ships at an agreed price and delivery date from the British government.
In this proposal, known as the Agreement of Benicàssim (Acord de Benicàssim), both the left-wing and right-wing parties reached a consensus regarding the symbols of the territory and soon-to-be autonomous community of Spain.
Following the fall of South Vietnam and intensifying persecution, many Chams resettled in the United States and sought to revive and protect the Cham culture while dealing with a much larger and more populous Vietnamese American community that was not fond of Champa's independence movement either.
Due to the blockade, Captain Downes was afraid his ship would be seized as it was illegally carrying over a million dollars in Spanish gold, something Cochrane's spies had informed him of some time prior.
Upon reaching the Sabine River, Jones patrolled the area for a few days for slavers before crossing into Mexican waters disguised as a merchantman.
This led initially to a relatively rapid fall in the lake level over hundreds of years to then continue falling at a lower pace.
In the last two decades of the 20th century, Uyghurs in Turpan were treated favourably by China with regard to religion; while Kashgar and Hotan were subject to more stringent government control.
As to the alleged violation of the Treaty of the Uruguay River, Uruguay's legal defense team asserted that discussions over the building of the mills were conducted, and that Argentine officials offered no objections.
Current status The United Kingdom has administered South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands separately from the Falklands since the islands were made a British dependent territory in their own right in 1985.
In 2014 European Parliament election in Slovakia, Škripek gained the sole OĽaNO mandate by preferential votes.
Its primary purpose should be to foster in individual consciences, in families, in the Church and in civil society a recognition of the meaning and value of human life at every stage and in every condition.
Those convicted of violating the legislation would be fined CA$5,000 and could face a six-month prison sentence with up to CA$10,000 for multiple offences.
Other prominent authors who have written in support of the consistent life ethic include Frank Pavone, John Dear, Ron Sider, James Hedges, Tony Campolo, Joel Hunter, Wendell Berry, and Shane Claiborne.
Following Lucifer's death at the hands of Beelzebub and Belial, Sandalphon takes over his role as the Supreme Primarch and vows to protect the Sky Realm in his stead.
See also March for Life and Family (Warsaw, Poland) March for Life (Washington, D.C., U.S.A.) March for Life (Prague) Walk for Life West Coast (San Francisco, Calif., U.S.A.) References External links Paris March for Life official website
Kim Reynolds' proclamation", while Reynolds was said to be "pleased that her proclamation remains in full effect and that surgical abortions will not be exempted from this suspension of non-essential and elective surgeries".
See also Abortion in the Czech Republic March for Life and Family March for Life (Washington, D.C.) Walk for Life West Coast References External links Official website
Heartbeat staff are also encouraged to create two websites, one that has an explicitly Christian message, and one that looks like Planned Parenthood.
And thus consequently he goes on to make the case that unless the embryo has a rational soul from the beginning, man would not beget man.
The next set referendums was held on 22 September, with a popular initiative on adding surplus gold reserves to the country's pension fund and a counter-proposal, as well as a federal law on the electricity market.
Rubella during pregnancy can lead to miscarriage (spontaneous abortion), and if it does not, there is a risk of severe disability due to congenital rubella syndrome.
Minister Dias Toffoli voluntarily abstained from voting due to a self-declared conflict of interest, as he previously presented a favorable opinion towards interrupting the pregnancy in such cases, during his term as Attorney General of Brazil.
make reasonable medical efforts under the circumstances to preserve both the life of the mother and the life of her unborn child".
In December 1996, Nathanson was baptized by John Cardinal O'Connor in a private Mass with a group of friends in New York's St.
In 2019, the Conference celebrated its twentieth anniversary and featured a keynote address by Timothy Cardinal Dolan of New York, Cardinal O’Connor’s successor.
Center for Reproductive Rights, CRR Between 2014 and 2016, Avila-Guillen worked as Advocacy Advisor for Latin-America in the Center for Reproductive Rights.
Since the cell strains in use originate from abortions, there has been opposition to the practice and the resulting vaccines on religious and moral grounds.
Carhart found that the 2003 act "departs in material ways" from the Nebraska law and that it pertains only to a specific abortion procedure, intact dilation and extraction.
The National Right to Life Committee (NRLC) was founded in 1967 as the Right to Life League to coordinate its state campaigns under the auspices of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.
In the monologue by Sarah Ruhl, a student shares experience about speaking in favor of abortion at a Catholic school.
In February 2006, the Legislature passed the Women's Health and Human Life Protection Act, which was signed into law by Governor Mike Rounds on March 6, 2006.
For example, Webster's Dictionary defined "pregnant" (or "pregnancy") as "having conceived" (or "the state of a female who has conceived"), in its 1828 and 1913 editions.
Additionally, even though the abortion ban existed, the combination of son preference and availability of sex-selective technology led to an increasing number of sex-selective abortions and boys born.
Sex og Politikk is a non-governmental organisation in Norway that promotes sexual health and rights domestically and internationally.
According to Aude Bertrand-Mirkovic, children in the prenatal stage are human persons but do not need legal personhood, as their rights can be protected by objective law.
Better Serbia won a narrow victory in Jovanović's home community of Topola in the concurrent 2020 Serbian local elections, defeating the Serbian Progressive Party by sixteen seats to fifteen.
M-312 called for the formation of a committee "to review the declaration in Subsection 223(1) of the Criminal Code which states that a child becomes a human being only at the moment of complete birth".
The film serves to combat critics to The Silent Scream who argue that, although Nathanson claimed the film relied only on imagery and not pejorative speech, the film was heavily reliant on upon the language of the narrator.
Plot summary Sam Doonby is a mysterious drifter who gets off a bus one afternoon in a small Texas town to change and improve the lives of all with whom he comes in contact.
During the Salvadoran Civil War, which ended in 1992, Herrera served as a left-wing freedom fighter for the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN) against the United States-supported government.
Abortion notification A 2002 United States Gallup special report mentions only 38% of the population being opposed to notifying the husband of a married woman for an abortion.
The Bhagavad Gita also includes lamentation of the degradation of a dynasty or society through "undesirable progeny" which has been interpreted by some to mean a lack of descendants qualified to perform propitiatory rites.
This Congress approved a set of demands, including the release of women from political prisons, an end to discrimination against women at work, and the introduction of painless childbirth and the right to abortion to preserve women's health.
In March 2026, Luxembourg became the second country in the world to constitutionally safeguard abortion access.
Staff are also trained on how to discourage pregnant women from accessing abortion, and how to discourage young women from using emergency contraception, birth control pills, or IUDs.
Austin Petersen Austin Petersen, presidential candidate for the Libertarian Party in 2016 and Republican candidate for senator in 2018, is a believer and advocate for a consistent life ethic, meaning that he opposes both abortion and the death penalty.
Jackson Women's Health Organization, which effectively overturned the constitutional right to abortion that had been established by Roe v.
The general value system of Hinduism teaches that the correct course of action in any given situation is the one that causes the least harm to those involved.
The Association had released earlier statements in 1963 and 1968 favoring the reform of restrictive abortion laws.
Others have objected to wrongful life claims on conceptual grounds, including the question of whether there exist rights and duties with regards to non-existent persons.
The case had come to be known as the "Bourne Judgment" and set the precedence in several subsequent abortion cases.
Background The first Rock for Choice concert was organized by L7 and music editor Sue Cummings of the LA Weekly, who brought their idea for a pro-abortion rights benefit concert modeled on Bob Geldof's Live Aid.
This was the first official display of the sculpture, as a protest of the church's teachings regarding contraception.
Completely Pro-Life: Building a Consistent Stance on Abortion, The Family, Nuclear Weapons, The Poor.
The first two were held on 3 March on popular initiatives for Switzerland to join the United Nations and to reduce working hours.
The Safe Access to Abortion Services Act, 2017 (French: Loi de 2017 sur l'accès sécuritaire aux services d'interruption volontaire de grossesse) is an act of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario relating to the legal protection of access to abortion.
Heartbeat International teaches its affiliated members to make their advertising look as though they are full-service reproductive health clinics that provide referrals for birth control or abortion.
Sex og Politikk offers a sex education/sexuality education class called "Uke Sex" to many schools all across Norway.
The party participated in an electoral coalition with GERB and the Union of Democratic Forces since elections in 2021.
While considering the prospect that non-Hispanic whites will be less than 50% of the US population by 2044; Bhattacharya pointed out the racist hypocrisy in the statement "Diversity equals white genocide", discussing how the "alt right loves to evoke genocide while harbouring Holocaust deniers".
Featured artists Artists featured in the Rock for Choice concerts included: References External links Feminist Majority Foundation: What Is Rock For Choice?
Under the Dublin Declaration's reasoning, standard care for threatening conditions such as ectopic pregnancies or eclampsia would remain the same, and does not constitute abortion, therefore is not within the scope of abortion bans.
Victoria: In November 2015, Victoria became the second state to pass legislation, the Public Health and Wellbeing Amendment (Safe Access Zones) Act 2015, to limit protests outside abortion clinics and 150 metre buffer zones are now enforced.
The lack of national data means that his bureau resorts to conducting a yearly survey called the "Abortion Surveillance Report".
Clinical response In response to this statute, many abortion providers have adopted the practice of inducing fetal demise before beginning late-term abortions.
In the twelfth century, in the Decretum Gratiani, Gratian, and the medieval canon law generally, merely followed the prevailing scientific view of the period that quickening represented the time at which the fetus was "vivified," defined as the time at which it was "ensouled." A century later, St.
Heartbeat International is an international anti-abortion association that supports the largest network of crisis pregnancy centers (CPC) in the world, with over 2,000 affiliates in 50 countries.
On 2021, the party attempted to change its name to "Brasil 35", a modification made to attract the Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro after he left his original Social Liberal Party and failed to create his own Alliance for Brazil, and mark the transition of the party to conservatism.
In the late 1960s she worked with Simone de Beauvoir on women's rights in France, was a founding member of Choisir la Cause des Femmes (CHOISIR), and especially focused her activism on the legalization of abortion.
One such example comes from the utilitarian perspective of Peter Singer who argues that abortion of healthy fetuses is not justified, but that disability-selective abortions are justified if the total amount of happiness will be greater by doing so.
Groups calling themselves abolitionist include the Oklahoma-based organization Abolitionists Rising, Abolish Human Abortion, and Operation Save America.
Many pregnancy centers have the ultimate goal of converting women through a born-again experience to "save the mother, save the baby".
After the legalization of abortion in the state, it took nearly 12 years for the second Mexican state Oaxaca, to decriminalize it.
The Sixth Ecumenical Council determined for the whole Church that anyone who procured abortion should bear all the punishments inflicted on murderers.
It is currently focusing on an effort to get the AFL-CIO to organize a national emergency labor conference to build defense of reproductive justice.
If the person lacks the capacity to give informed consent to the termination, the medical professional can obtain permission from a person lawfully authorised to give consent on the person's behalf.
Religious law There are no prohibitions of abortion in the Confucian texts, nor mention of it in the earliest Vedas.
The film uses 16 short film segments and a wraparound film to weave together each filmmaker's specific response to the Supreme Court decision.
In 2013 during the 113th Congress, Representative Trent Franks introduced a bill named the "Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act" (H.R.
Between the start of 2011 and May 31, 2019, almost 500 abortion restrictions were created across 33 states, accounting for more than one third of abortion restrictions enacted since Roe v.
Many were also outraged at the invasion of privacy and the medical problems resulting from abortions taking place illegally in medically dangerous circumstances.
Are the cells of the trophectoderm, which are synchronically unified with the cells of the ICM at this time as an embryo, also unified as part of a single human being via the soul?
These "morality" prosecutions were suspended to show foreigners a good image during the 1936 Summer Olympics, but then resumed vigorously after Pope Pius XI had denounced Nazism in his 1937 encyclical Mit brennender Sorge.
14024 for being responsible by working with the Government of the Russian Federation by acting as an observer in Russia’s sham referendums for purported annexation of the Russia-occupied regions of Ukraine in September 2022.
See also Abortion in Australia Late termination of pregnancy References External links "Abortion Law Reform Act 2019".
He was then Professor of Divinity at Oxford University, and this work characterised him amongst liberal Anglicans as a significant figure in the effort to make the Anglican Church's moral stance on homosexuality more accepting.
Facts On 27 April 1938, a 14-year-old girl had been raped by a group of Royal guardsmen at Horse Guards Parade near Whitehall and the assailants were subsequently sentenced at the Old Bailey.
Eclipse of Reason is most heavily criticized for its idealization of the “World of Reason” and for creating a dichotomy that may not exist in between the two hypothetical worlds.
It has also been endorsed by the Vatican and has premiered at the Landmark E Street Cinema during the 2013 March for Life, an annual anti-abortion march protesting abortion in the United States.
For, though the opinion of Aristotle, or similar speculations, regarding the time when the rational soul is infused into the embryo, were practically accepted for many centuries still it was always held by the Church that he who destroyed what was to be a man was guilty of destroying a human life.
The All-Poland Women's Strike or Polish Women's Strike (Polish: Ogólnopolski Strajk Kobiet, OSK) is a women's rights social movement in Poland, established in September 2016.
By 1940, the section had already possessed data on some 41,000 homosexuals, both suspected and convicted.
Bush reinstated the policy, stating, "It is my conviction that taxpayer funds should not be used to pay for abortions or advocate or actively promote abortion, either here or abroad.
Misinformation and disinformation related to abortion often stems from political, religious and social groups, particularly on social media, as well as crisis pregnancy centers.
It automatically received access and positive treatment in the pro-government yellow press and television, where only the Progressives and their allies have such a privilege.
Vivienne Liley, "Division and fragmentation in the work of three Gualdeloupean novelists: Mic'hele Lacrosil, Jacqueline Manicom and Simone Schwarz-Bart" (PhD thesis, Queen Mary, University of London, 1993).
Suchanow said in an interview to Le Monde that the initiative comes from Poland, "In Poland we know how to make revolutions" ("En Pologne, nous savons comment faire les révolutions").
Jackson Women's Health Organization decision was officially handed down on June 24, 2022, the NMRJ organized protests with civil disobedience in a number of states including Arizona, California, New York, and Washington.
Common examples of non-invasive testing are ultrasound and cell-free placental DNA tests, which was developed and implemented in the United States and Western Europe in late 2011.
Barroso went on to empathize with the religious argument, but justified his position by contrasting the Golden Rule with the violence of incarcerating women for this decision.
The Reproductive Health Care Reform Bill was then introduced to the Parliament's upper house, the New South Wales Legislative Council, by the NSW Labor upper house leader Penny Sharpe on 20 August 2019.
Thus the progression towards existence of a potential person usually lies mainly in the maturation of previous people to develop the will and ability to become potential parents.
Her disappearance drew a lot of attention with Kenyans mobilising on social platforms such as Twitter, under the Hashtag #FindCarolineMwatha to draw attention on the matter.
Euthanasia Archbishop Williams stated that he remained opposed to voluntary euthanasia despite seeing his mother's painful months of decline and dementia.
The reform bill sought to amend section 65 of the Crimes Act 1958, which had codified the common law offences relating to abortion.
On 14 February 2022, Dragan Jovanović announced that BS will participate in the 2022 Serbian parliamentary elections as part of the SNS-led coalition and their "Together We Can Do Everything" ballot list.
The march began at 10:00 am at the Santa Ana Cemetery, in homage to the women who died because of clandestine abortions (unsafe abortions), and ended at 2:00 pm at Largo das Heroínas.
In the name of God was involved in three activities during the World Social Forum: A conference in which several artist from Uganda, Kenya, and other countries spoke regarding their use of theatre, painting, and sculpture to highlight local and global issues.
Although it is very uncommon, women undergoing surgical abortion after this gestational age sometimes give birth to a fetus that may survive briefly.
FEC, for most practical purposes, it cut deeply into the law, reverting it to its pre-McConnell state in which only speech expressly advocating the election or defeat of a candidate could be constitutionally subject to limits and prohibitions on financing.
The amended bill was then returned to the Legislative Assembly as the Abortion Law Reform Bill on 26 September 2019.
Different women who have had abortions and suffered harmful effects from the procedure give testimony later in the film.
Since persons, as usually defined, are multicellular individuals, it is difficult to maintain scientifically that a person has come into existence before the eight-cell stage.
The report revealed that in 2019 there had been 6,666 terminations in the State under the Act's provisions, of which 21 were on grounds of risk to life or health.
The intent of the Chicago Method is to dissuade women from obtaining abortion services at the facility.
Some of the most notable achievements of Memphis Hardline were organizing the movement's first annual gathering and founding the long-standing Coalition to Abolish the Fur Trade (CAFT).
"The Catholic 'Consistent Life Ethic' and Attitudes Toward Capital Punishment and Welfare Reform." Sociology of Religion.
A female of any age who consents to, or assists in, the performance of an abortion on herself is not guilty of an offence against the section.
The party was founded in December 1996 by members of the political satire television programme Canaletto.
The harm consists in the fact that "when I die, I am deprived of all of the value of my future", and is being deprived of all the valuable "experiences, activities, projects, and enjoyments" that they would otherwise have had.
He gained media notoriety for scolding fellow MPs for being rude to each other and attempting to ban depictions of nudity in the media.
Specifically, the sculptures are a reaction against teachings of the Christian church regarding contraception and sexual education, and as a general criticism of the leadership of George W.
Hutter, Jörg: "Die Rolle der Polizei bei der Schwulen- und Lesbenverfolgung im Nationalsozialismus" [1].
She also led advocacy opposing violence against women, raising awareness of femicide in the country.
The stage show was premiered in an October to early November run in 2022 at the Arlene and Robert Kogod Cradle in Washington, D.C., part of the Arena Stage complex.
The Sisters of Life is a Catholic female religious order dedicated to protecting and enhancing the sacredness of human life.
the process of informed consent to the reading of a fixed script created and mandated by politicians not doctors." See also Pain in babies Prenatal development Texas Senate Bill 5 References External links "Oversight Hearing on Pain of the Unborn" from U.S.
The Workers' Party (PT) crisis during the Dilma Rousseff government, precipitated and accelerated by the political-economic crisis of 2014, strengthened Bolsonarist ideology and the Brazilian new right, which are part of the context of the rise of New Right populism at an international level.
In 2019, FOR SA spoke in support of a pastor who allegedly told high school students that gay people were akin to murderers and paedophiles and "just as bad as Hitler".
Critics accuse him of spreading conspiracy theories and holding views perceived as antisemitic or pro-Russian.
According to a 2013 United Nations report, 93 per cent of countries allow abortion where its purpose is to save a woman's life.
A resolution by the Council of Europe has found several violations of the European Social Charter in the situation: right to protection of health (art.
Jovanović was elected on Serbian Progressive Party's (SNS) list in 2016, and after serving as an independent member of the assembly for six months, Jovanović launched Better Serbia in July 2017.
The casualties mount even though safe, WHO-approved abortion pills, legal in more than 60 countries, have been available for over a decade.
It's not for me to exploit my position to push a change." Abortion He has indicated opposition to abortion writing that, for himself, "it is impossible to view abortion as anything other than the deliberate termination of a human life." He is a lifetime member of the anti-abortion group SPUC.
Defence A registered medical practitioner who terminates a pregnancy in accordance with the provisions of the Abortion Act 1967 does not commit this offence.
Suchanow described the tactics for the continuation of the protests as decentralised, up to grassroots initiatives and creativity.
Advances in technology Evictionists believe that advances in technology will continue to improve the medical ability to preserve a living fetus after removal from its mother.
However, this decision, based on Germany's Basic Law, which protected the unborn child's right to life and stated a legal obligation for mothers to carry their babies to term, granted circumstantial exceptions if they were legally/constitutionally sound.
In the United States, federal funding for abortion through Medicaid, the public health insurance program for low-income residents, is banned except for cases of incest, rape, and life endangerment due to the Hyde Amendment.
After having served their prison terms, many of those prosecuted were sent to concentration camps (usually the camp at Dachau, which had a special "priest block").
September 19, 2022 Around 10,000 people gathered for the 2022 march in Warsaw, as well as thousands more in towns across Poland.
In his speech Pro Cluentio, delivered in 66 BC, Cicero refers to a case he had heard of in which a woman from Miletus was sentenced to death for having aborted her pregnancy, upon receiving bribes from those who stood to inherit her husband's estate if he produced no heir.
After the death of Albert II of Germany in 1439, his then-unborn son Ladislaus the Posthumous inherited his father's sovereign rights.
Meanwhile, the European Court of Human Rights complicated the question even more through a landmark judgment (case of A.
Despite the prevalence of illegal abortions in Myanmar due to economic difficulty, many Buddhists consider it against their religious beliefs.
The Court considered that the defense of the unborn human being's right to life necessarily implies prohibition.
Magaly Quintana Pereyra (28 May 1952 – 5 May 2019) was a Nicaraguan feminist historian and activist.
Doctors for a Woman's Choice on Abortion state that the majority of surgical abortions in Britain are already performed with general anesthesia, which also affects the fetus.
As a result, at least 27 States banned the procedure as did the United States Congress which voted to ban the procedure during the 104th, 105th, and 106th Congresses.
History Before 1 April 1991, section 5(1) of the Abortion Act 1967 provided that nothing in that Act affected the provisions of the Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929.
Clergy opposed to the regime or holding views the Nazis found suspect (for instance pacifism) were particularly targeted, with the false charge of homosexual conduct serving to conceal the real political cause of their prosecution.
From 1936 to 1938 SS official Josef Meisinger was the director of the section at the Gestapo Central Headquarters.
The selective abortion of female fetuses is most common in areas where cultural norms value male children over female children for a variety of social and economic reasons.
On 6 February 2019, 37-year-old Caroline Mwatha Ochieng’, a Kenyan human rights activist and founder of the Dandora Community Center (which investigates and documents cases of police killings in Dandora), went missing.
By 2000, David Ormerod opines that a definition of "born alive" taken from the 1991 case is not of universal application and that an example of a case where it was not applicable was Re A (conjoined twins), where a conjoined twin who never drew breath was considered to have been born alive.
Repeal A referendum to repeal the Women's Health and Human Life Protection Act was placed on ballot for the November 2006 statewide election, due to a successful petition drive by the organization South Dakota Healthy Families.
The event took place near the Kremlin and was led by FSSPX Superior General Bernard Fellay, with participation from traditional Russian Catholics.
Amendment In 2025, an amendment to the Act made its way through parliament that seeks to expand access to abortion services provided through the public health system.
In this proposal, the previous exceptions for abortion were eliminated (unviability of the fetus, pregnancies that put the mother's life at risk and pregnancies resulting from rape).
Theoretically, security of the person would be breached if the government limits a person's ability to make an income, by denying welfare, taking away property essential to one's profession, or denying licenses.
Molly Smith, Artistic Director of Arena Stage, commissioned eight playwrights to write monologues in response to this action.
Mizuko Mizuko (水子), literally "water child", is a Japanese term for an aborted, stillborn or miscarried baby, and archaically for a dead baby or infant.
He is also described as being a member of the śārim (Hebrew: שָׂרִים "princes"), and a Hazzan (חַזָּן master of heavenly song).
In the Edo period, when famine sometimes led the poverty-stricken to infanticide and abortion, the practice was adapted to cover these situations as well.
Kamm's work spans across many issues in bioethics, normative ethics, and the philosophy of death, including: the moral justification of abortion, the ethics of war, physician-assisted suicide, the trolley problem and the doctrine of the double effect.
CMHNTM asserts that it is independent of political and religious ideology; however, its membership includes Christian fundamentalists, sympathizers of the Christian right, and the Fujimorist political formation Popular Force.
Provisions The act establishes a safe access zones with a radius of 50 metres around abortion clinics and safe access zones with a radius of 150 metres around the homes of staff.
Medical abortions are an alternative to surgical (also called procedural or instrumentation) abortions such as vacuum aspiration or dilation and curettage.
Later term abortions are not punishable if indicated medical reasons, such as possible harm to the woman from continued pregnancy, or a severely deformed fetus.
Publications and public speeches Paula Avila-Guillen has been published op-Eds and academic articles related to sexual and reproductive rights, health and public policies.
On April 23, Barrett issued another preliminary injunction saying that surgical abortions could proceed if a provider determines that delaying the procedure would cause the pregnancy to become viable, and thus prevent access to an abortion.
The film focuses on the limbs of the fetus while in the womb then proceeds to show the abortion in graphic detail.
The film's cast includes Alyssa Milano, Virginia Madsen, Gina Torres, Milana Vayntrub, Jennifer Holland, Sean Gunn, Molly C.
Efforts to study Christianity and sexuality The same year as he made the above comments, and as a practical consequence of the views he expressed, Williams founded the Institute for the Study of Christianity and Sexuality (which in 1996 became the Centre for the Study of Christianity and Sexuality).
Morgentaler, a 5–2 majority of the Supreme Court of Canada held that the abortion provisions of the Criminal Code were unconstitutional.
An additional study that analyzed data for 36 crisis pregnancy center websites in North Carolina found that 31 out of 36 made misinformation available to those accessing their site.
Though women wish for safe abortions, fears of legal and social repercussions may lead to more unsafe abortions.
The fraternity combines the monastic life with itinerant preaching of penance and conversion, in obedience and submission to the authentic and timeless Magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church, subject to the Roman Pontiff, always under the guidance and authority of the local Ordinary.
Some view the memorial service as the temples' way of benefiting from the misfortune of women who have miscarried or had to abort a pregnancy.
A 2008 systematic review of the medical literature on abortion and mental health found that high-quality studies consistently showed few or no mental-health consequences of abortion, while poor-quality studies were more likely to report negative consequences.
Although the subject of abortion was heavily discussed in relation to the RH Law, the law does not legalize abortion.
The right of member states to enact legislation that limit the right to conscientious objection to abortion was upheld by the European Court of Human Rights in March 2020.
To make matters worse, contraception is very hard to obtain for most women and if they do obtain it, it usually does not work properly.
Gloria Purvis, a Black Catholic and talk show host, spoke at the 2020 conference on the anti-abortion movement engaging with African Americans.
Only pharmacists employed by a hospital may administer or supply a drug or drugs for an abortion after 24 weeks, and then only at the "written direction of a registered medical practitioner".
Popular misinterpretations Several sources use the following quotes from Hindu texts regarding the morality of abortion: Bhagavad Gita, 2.13 "Just as the embodied soul continuously passes from childhood to youth to old age, similarly, at the time of death, the soul passes into another body.
However, these countries vary greatly in the circumstances under which abortion was to be permitted.
That Act directs that "any enactment creating an offence by directing it to be felony shall be read as directing it to be an offence".
In the Greater Key of Solomon, Sandalphon is designated "the left-hand feminine cherub of the Ark of the Covenant".
Stoicism maintained that the living animal soul was received only at birth, through contact with the outer air, and was transformed into a rational soul only at fourteen years of age.
Europe In Europe, abortion law varies by country, and has been legalized through parliamentary acts in some countries, and constitutionally banned or heavily restricted in others.
Regardless of their personal objections, medical practitioners and nurses have a duty to perform or assist in performing an emergency abortion if the pregnant woman's life is in danger.
The film was started as a thesis project by Stephen Fell and Will Thompson, students at Rice University.
These immature cells could then be exposed to carcinogens and hormones over time, resulting in a greater potential risk of breast cancer.
The boundaries are determined by what it means to be loyal to Jesus Christ." However, in a later interview with Time magazine in June 2007, he stated that he had not changed his own mind, although he is now constrained from expressing personal views at variance with the corporate view of the Church.
It passed final stages in the Dáil on 5 December, where it was approved by 90 votes to 15, with 12 registered abstentions.
The Women's March for the Decriminalization of Abortion took place on 18 March 2017 in Luanda, Angola.
Also, in some countries, laws have been passed to restrict the practice of abortion based upon the gender of the fetus.
The most significant changes allowed the Higher Court to renounce a patient's right to appeal, and to fine physicians who did not report patients who they knew would qualify for sterilisation under the law.
Prohibition of Abortion Although most Islamic scholars permit abortions, there have been views going back to the early centuries that it is prohibited entirely.
Mantras, often the Heart Sutra and the 25th chapter of the Lotus Sutra, known as the "Avalokiteśvara Sutra", are performed, as are calls of praise to Jizō.
Further developments In 2018, London Health Sciences Centre said they had no plans to make use of the legislation.
For example, one poll sponsored by the organization showed that 35% of voters who identified as pro-life did not believe Roe v.
Teratogenicity and ongoing pregnancy Before taking medication for abortion, individuals should be advised about the potential harmful effects of misoprostol if the abortion is not successful.
The minister considered it unconstitutional the interpretation that interrupting a pregnancy of anencephalic fetus is a crime according to the Penal Code of Brazil: Aborto é crime contra a vida.
Oceania New Zealand In New Zealand, Conscientious Objection in Abortion is supported by legislation and employment was protected against discrimination, however, in 2020, this protection was partially removed where it causes unreasonable disruption to an employers services.
The Reich Central Office for the Combating of Homosexuality and Abortion (German: Reichszentrale zur Bekämpfung der Homosexualität und der Abtreibung) was a government bureau central to Nazi Germany's persecution of homosexuals and tasked with enforcing laws which criminalized abortion.
According to the conspiracy theory, these efforts will culminate in domination of the world economy.
Kenyon subsequently became a co-author of Of Pandas and People which rebranded creation science as intelligent design.
Thurtle (2007), referencing Walter Benjamin, claims that the work owes more to the "storytelling" genre than to strictly scientific enquiry.
Lyell's response is recorded in his archive, held at the University of Edinburgh's Heritage Collections, who have also created a dedicated website to Lyell's work.
Mullett also described the book as scholarly but noted that the book contains a "slough of misrepresentation".
Although Greenworld has so far only been published in Japan, Dixon has expressed interest in getting an English-language version published.
On the Interpretation of Nature (or Thoughts on the Interpretation of Nature, French: Pensées sur l'interprétation de la nature) is a 1754 book written by Denis Diderot.
The percentage of students who held the view that there was a conflict between religion and evolution was reduced by about half.
Dr Tatiana receives letters from various creatures about their sex lives, and responds by explaining the biology of sex to creatures concerned.
Wolf-Meyer assessed Man After Man in 2019 as "humanity’s ultimate humiliation in the face of the world they had created".
Goldberg (1997) The virtue of human universals and cooperation: A review essay of Matt Ridley's The Origins of Virtue See also Animal Faith Evolutionary ethics Evolution of morality
Chapter 5: Welcome to the Anthropocene Kolbert uses the extinction of graptolites and other clades to explain glaciation as a mechanism for extinction.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
This competition produces a constraint that tends to mold organisms into forms that are more adapted to their environments – forms that would otherwise not spontaneously persist.
The solution of this chicken-and-egg problem, according to Deacon, is the subtle evolutionary process of co-evolution.
However, if current emission intensities remain as they are today, by 2060, there will no longer be a region above 3.5.
Writing to colleague Asa Gray in 1860, Darwin commented that he remembered well a "time when the thought of the eye made me cold all over, but I have got over this stage of the complaint, & now small trifling particulars of structure often make me very uncomfortable.
She argued that because biology and botany were fields dominated exclusively by men, the interpretation of natural facts was inherently skewed toward a male perspective.
The molecular evidence showed that DNA changes more often than what was originally expected and no real pattern was found.
The series was inspired by a course of 'Darwin Seminars' which took place at the London School of Economics−LSE in London in the late 1990s.
By 1980, evidence of the KT boundary and high iridium levels had been independently reported on at dozens of other sites, moving Alvarez's hypothesis toward a global hunt for the impact crater, in competition with several other scientists such as Jan Smit.
Yule stating that "Oceans of Kansas offers a well researched and often engaging account of the paleobiology of the Western Interior Seaway...".
The book contains a very useful summary of Majerus' work on melanism in ladybirds and a review of the peppered moth story, including observations on moth behavior which sparked controversy.
By showing how completely extant animals might be misunderstood if known only from skeletal remains, All Yesterdays shows that our own conceptions of extinct animals are likely equally mistaken.
In mindware “the human ape found a brain programming language to bond across time and place—symbolic culture.
Fisher later acknowledged Darwin's influence by dedicating The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection to Major Leonard Darwin, Charles Darwin's son.
Essay "Dinomania" is a review of Michael Crichton's novel Jurassic Park and Steven Spielberg's blockbuster film of the same name.
Laden concludes that "A Troublesome Inheritance is itself troubling, not for its politics but for its science.
Williams, containing papers written by biologists arguing against the view of group selection as a major force in evolution.
It went through three editions (1933, 1945, 1966) and for many years constituted a very authoritative work and the definitive coverage of the subject.
For decades the most enlightened writers in the fields of science and religion had accepted that much of the Old Testament, and Genesis in particular, had to be read in a metaphorical sense...
Pratt wrote on the second edition that "This edition needs to be seen anew, despite much of the same text and many of the same illustrations.
Darwin starts with dogs and cats, discussing the similarities between wild and domesticated dogs, and musing on how the species changed to accommodate man's wishes.
Maynard Smith and Szathmáry identified several properties common to the transitions: Smaller entities have often come about together to form larger entities, e.g.
Within a few centuries, Johnnie's descendants have consumed the planet entirely and leave the Solar System.
Wrangham argues that humans have domesticated themselves by a process of self-selection similar to the selective breeding of foxes described by Dmitry Belyayev, a theory first proposed by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach in the early 1800s.
Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex is a 2002 popular science book by the British evolutionary biologist Olivia Judson written in the role of her alter ego, agony aunt Dr Tatiana.
The Creationists: From Scientific Creationism to Intelligent Design is a history of the origins of anti-evolutionism by Ronald Numbers.
- by Simon Conway Morris The disparity of the Burgess Shale arthropod fauna and the limits of cladistic analysis - by Stephen Jay Gould
The more they farm, the more their population rises and the more they are obliged to farm, because only by farming can they feed the extra mouths." References External links Yale Press.edu: Short summary of the book Edge.org: Biography of Colin Tudge Archived 2003-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
Importance of the book The experiments with the peppered moths, as described in this book, are arguably the most dramatic and best known case of adaptive evolution.
Details In the Presence of Dinosaurs focuses predominantly on the dinosaurs of North America over the course of five different time periods and details the flora, fauna, geology and geography of each time period in a manner akin to a naturalist's viewpoint.
In that book, Deacon notes that much of the mystery surrounding language origins comes from a profound confusion about the nature of semiotic processes themselves.
However, some of Benton's classification differs from that in the Tree of Life Web Project, especially regarding the relationship of early amphibian groups (Batrachomorpha and Reptiliomorpha).
The politically conservative magazine National Review voted Darwin's Black Box one of their top 100 non-fiction books of the century.
Everhart, Adjunct Curator of Paleontology at the Sternberg Museum of Natural History and past President of the Kansas Academy of Science.
But they have to live in an unnatural environment, and are both likely to have problems in developing healthy social relationships, both are liable to suffer from isolation and boredom, and both live in a limited amount of physical space.
The concept of extended phenotype has been generalized in an organism-centered view of evolution with the concept of niche construction, in the case where natural selection pressures can be modified by the organisms during the evolutionary process.
It was originally published in hardcover in Great Britain by HarperCollins Publishers, under the title Life: An Unauthorised Biography.
Content The first edition of The Dinosauria includes 29 chapters organized into two sections, the first on "Dinosaur Relationships, Biology, and Distribution" and the second on "Dinosaur Taxonomy".
The third considers the evolution of dominance, which Fisher believed was strongly influenced by modifiers.
The controversial conclusion is that willed action can alter our evolutionary history and genetic composition, by changing the environment to which we have to adapt.
It is a book you can lay on the table and let visitors leaf through and chat about, enjoying the pictures and the fine prose at the same time." A review in BioScience calls it "an accessible and elegantly designed volume that most biologists will want to buy.
Richard Dawkins in Unweaving the Rainbow (1998) references Medawar's review as "devastating", and characterises The Phenomenon of Man as "the quintessence of bad poetic science".
"Skeptic of the conflict" Swamidass concludes his book by stating that he is a "skeptic of the conflict" between science and Genesis.
Vertebrate Paleontology and Evolution is an advanced textbook on vertebrate paleontology by Robert L.
The tone is lighthearted but not overdone, with humorous shifts of facial expressions and postures as the world changes with each page turn.
Darwin and the Science of Evolution (UK title: Charles Darwin: The Scholar Who Changed Human History; French: Darwin et la science de l'évolution) is a 2000 illustrated biography of Charles Darwin, and a monograph on his theory of evolution.
At the rear of the book is a phylogenetic classification which combines both the Linnaean hierarchy and the cladistic arrangement, and has been used as a guideline for the Wikipedia pages on living and extinct vertebrate taxa.
Eyes have convergently evolved several times, as Dawkins discusses in "The Forty-Fold Path to Enlightenment" in Climbing Mount Improbable.
Morris introduces his section on geology with the frank statement that Bible-believing Christians face "a serious dilemma" because contemporary geologists present "an almost unanimous verdict" against the biblical account of creation and the Flood.
Latest publishing The latest edition, the fifth edition, was cowritten with Michael Morales and Eli C.
Whitcomb and Morris instead published with the smaller Presbyterian and Reformed Publishing Company, whose owner Charles H.
Darwin's Cathedral: Evolution, Religion, and the Nature of Society (ISBN 9780226901350) is a 2002 book by David Sloan Wilson which proposes that religion is a multi-level adaptation—i.e., a product of cultural evolution developed through multi-level selection.
Peter Jackson's 2005 film King Kong featured a complete ecosystem on the film's version of Skull Island populated with descendants of Mesozoic animals.
Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth is a book about natural history by British paleontologist Richard A.
A few points will suffice to show how similar Deloria is to outspoken creationist author Duane Gish or any of his ilk." Michael D.
The book was reviewed in the British Quarterly Review, Journal of Mental Science and the Quarterly Journal of Science.
Brandon Ogbunu refers to it as "one of the few evolution books that could truly be taught anywhere." See also Sean B.
The book was negatively reviewed in the British Medical Journal claiming "we are not sufficiently impressed by [the] author's arguments".
Beginning in the early twenty-first century, several increasingly devastating wars take place in Europe, which result in the United States and China becoming the two dominant superpowers on Earth.
He provides numerous examples of this both at the individual level and at the societal level, eventually discussing examples of self-deception in the history of the United States and Israel.
The Australopithecines separate man from the great apes, and the genus Homo is almost certainly an offshoot of the early australopithecines, upright apes of the wooded savannah (see human taxonomy).
Summary Better-World Philosophy is organized into nine sections, each outlining an aspect of Moore's sociological and ethical system.
He touches upon his personal life, reflecting on his father, the chemist Sune Bergström, with whom he had a relatively distant relationship, and on his own marriage and son.
Barrett's Metaphysics, Materialism and the Evolution of Mind – Early Writings of Charles Darwin (1980).
Universal acid Dennett writes about the fantasy of a "universal acid" as a liquid that is so corrosive that it would eat through anything that it came into contact with, even a potential container.
Following the 1859 publication of Origin of Species Darwin set out to produce evidence for his theory of natural selection.
The final chapter of part II dismisses directed mutation, the inheritance of acquired traits and Teilhard's "Omega Point", and insists that other controversies and hypotheses (like the unit of selection and Panspermia) have no dire consequences for orthodox Darwinism.
The Symbolic Species is a multi-disclipinary book that at the time of publishing was seen as groundbreaking.
He also looks at the relationship between science and race in the 19th century United States and the emergence and influence of scientific racism.
Baker, writing in Civil War History, described Lincoln and Darwin as "a profound comparison of the two men's perspectives and ...
In 1999, philosopher Michael Ruse wrote that Lewontin, by publishing the book, had "thereby establish[ed] himself (if there had been hitherto doubt) as the dominant figure in the genetics of evolution".
When possible, footage of actual live animals was used but other creatures, such as mammoths, had to be recreated through computer graphics.
See also March of Progress (illustration) References External links Wonderful Life Archived 2021-02-24 at the Wayback Machine - by Stephen Jay Gould The Cambrian "Explosion": Slow-fuse or Megatonnage?
An International Conference on Creationism, held every fifth year in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, produces papers of "considerable scientific and mathematical sophistication", and the movement attracts younger scholars with PhDs in the sciences, including even a few in geology.
Reception The idea of autoevolutionism has been described as a "minority opinion at the fringes of official circles of thoughts and of the mainstream." A review by multiple authors in the Origins of Life and Evolution of Biospheres journal noted: There are a few valid points in A.
"Otherlands" & Thomas Halliday on climate change Halliday indicates that humankind bears a huge responsibility in the trajectory of our contemporary climate change.
The text fancifully traces a fish in the water who “got tired of swimming” all the way up in its evolution to a human boy who can fly...The spare text is deceptively simple: there's a lot of science behind statements such as “One day there was a BOOM!
Evolution of the Vertebrates, subtitled "A History of the Backboned Animals Through Time", is a basic paleontology textbook by Edwin H.
Website An accompanying website to the series was launched in 2003, intended to act as a "stand-alone resource in its own right".
Influence The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change has been retrospectively described as a "landmark book".
However, there are also "Forced Moves" or "Good Tricks" that will be discovered repeatedly, either by natural selection (see convergent evolution) or human investigation.
It reflects well the state of dinosaur paleontology at the time of its publication, and is ordered and easily accessible.
Huxley, Thomas Henry (1859), "Time and Life: Mr Darwin's Origin of Species", Macmillan's Magazine, 1: 142–148.
Today's atmosphere has a similar composition as during the Oligocene (an epoch ranging from 34 million to 23 million years ago during the Palaeogene period shown within the table above).
Background Darwin had been working for two years writing his "big book", provisionally titled Natural Selection, when on 18 June 1858 he received a parcel from Alfred Wallace, who was then living in Borneo.
The book is then divided into three parts by era, first of which is The Rise of Life, which covers the Precambrian and the Paleozoic Era.
Others whose writings as prominent scientists were listed in the book's bibliography were Sir Arthur Eddington, Ernst Haeckel, Sir Julian Huxley, Sir James Jeans and A.
Combining perspectives from neurobiology, evolutionary theory, linguistics, and semiotics, Deacon proposes that language, along with the unique human capacity for symbolic thought, co-evolved with the brain.
Charles's wife Emma Darwin's correspondence was published by Charles and Emma's daughter (Frank's sister) Henrietta Litchfield in 1905/1915 as Emma Darwin: A Century of Family Letters.
Some of the illustrations in Man After Man have been turned into internet memes; particularly widespread is an illustration depicting a "woodland-dweller" attacking a "tundra-dweller", with the added text "Season's Greetings".
The book is a journey through 65 million years of palaeontological records, from the extinction of the dinosaurs to just before present.
"...pressure that humanity is placing on the planet." International Union for Conservation of Nature.
All of the Burgess animals, Gould argues, were exquisitely adapted to their environment, and there exists little evidence that the survivors were any better adapted than their extinct contemporaries.
Reception Subsequent to its publication, All Yesterdays has proven influential on the modern culture of palaeoart.
It mentions that "Aryan" culture was most likely the result of interaction, adoption, and adaptation among those who brought Indo-European languages to India and those who were already well-settled inhabitants of the region, and that Sanskrit and the Vedas developed in the Indian subcontinent.
The philosophical tool is commonly used in scientific discourse, and Behe notes that understandings of cellular structure and other aspects of microbiology were not much understood when Charles Darwin was alive.
A study at Arizona State University used the book as part of a two-week module, within an introductory biology course, focusing on science, evolution, and religion.
The first part, "A Guide to the Interpretation of Bone Accumulations in African Caves," details the processes and effects on how taphonomy occurs.
The negative user responses outweighed the positive ones, with some users being concerned that much of the programme appeared to be conjecture and that Robert Winston, or the programme as a whole, were dumbing down the science or "patronising" viewers.
See also Last and First Men, book of Olaf Stapledon All Tomorrows, book of C.M Kosemen Man After Man, book of Dougal Dixon Human evolution References Dixon, Dougal (2002-03-14).
Ayala and Bruce Alberts, highlight developments in evolutionary biology and its relevance to the study of emerging infectious diseases, the 2006 discovery of the transitional fossil Tiktaalik, and the application of evolutionary theory in many areas of science and engineering beyond biology.
It was not until one century later that feminists were working from inside the natural sciences, and could address Darwin's androcentricity.
The Design Revolution: Answering the Toughest Questions about Intelligent Design is a 2004 book by William A.
The book is written in question/answer format from Dembski's point of view as one of the conceptual leaders in the movement.
Reception The New Dinosaurs became a bestseller upon its release and like its predecessor After Man, The New Dinosaurs garnered positive reviews from critics.
When viewers meet the boy at the end, they also spot the pet fish that must have triggered his imaginative musings.
Essentially, Singer claims that although humans possess selfish, competitive tendencies naturally, they have a substantial capacity for cooperation that has also been selected for during human evolution.
Paul called the creature "perhaps the worst beast in the book" and "unbelievable", pointing out that he thought it was infeasible that pterosaurs would evolve into giraffe-like animals before the more dominant and already terrestrial dinosaurs.
On the other hand, extension of domestication packages along the North–South axis – as required in the case of the American and African continents – was much more difficult owing to severe imbalances of climate.
Summary The book is an expansion of the Jacob Bronowski Memorial Lecture in Natural Philosophy which Sagan gave at the University of Toronto.
- discusses the links of the Pioneer Fund to the distribution and positive reviews for the book Horowitz, Irving Louis (Jan–Feb 1995).
A Troublesome Inheritance: Genes, Race and Human History is a 2014 book by Nicholas Wade, a British writer, journalist, and former science and health editor for The New York Times.
Behe claims the underlying complexity and biochemical mechanisms of the systems are vastly under-appreciated, and identifies other, similar systems.
He knew that his readers were already familiar with the concept of transmutation of species from Vestiges, and his introduction ridicules that work as failing to provide a viable mechanism.
The book received generally positive reviews upon release and garnered the nickname "The Dinosaur Bible".
It is just a thoughtful, readable, and very stimulating book." Reviews In his review of The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change, Donald J.
Gerhard Lenski, in Social Forces, admitted that sociologists had too often ignored non-human societies, and thought the book should be required reading.
He concludes that game theory (the mathematical study of strategy) and experiments in psychology offer hope that self-interested people will make short-term sacrifices for the good of others, if society provides the right conditions.
How many other empirical studies have led directly on to a fundamentally revised view about the history of life?
Depending on how much CO2 is emitted, the Earth could very well be heading towards Eocene-temperature levels far faster than any underlying long term paleontology-cycle would suggest.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
Dobzhansky suggested that the preservation of extensive variation would allow populations to evolve rapidly as environmental conditions change.
I am confident that most of the signatories have not read my book and are responding to a slanted summary devised by the organizers." Wade added that he had asked the letter's main authors, Graham Coop and Michael Eisen, for a list of errors so that he could correct future editions of the book.
Although he avoids drawing any specific political points, Ridley ends his book by arguing for a smaller state operating on a more local level.
While preparing the text of The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication in 1866, Darwin began to explore topics related to human ancestry, sexual selection, and emotional life.
Part biography, part history of science and social documentary, this book takes readers on Darwin's journey of discovery.
References External links Supplementary Information to Dinosaurs: The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages by Thomas R.
a thrilling story that Gould tells in a way that no one else could equal." Some of the anatomical reconstructions cited by Gould were soon challenged as being incorrect, most notably Simon Conway Morris' 1977 reconstruction of Hallucigenia.
The release of the new edition was celebrated with an event hosted at Conway Hall in London on 11 September that same year, which included a joint talk with Dixon and British paleontologist and science writer Darren Naish.
The invention of engines that can surpass the speed of light has made it possible for the colony to explore far and wide; the second part finds them studying a planet orbiting the star Praesepe over 500 light years away.
He argues that this mindset contradicts the principles found in the Golden Rule, which encourages treating others as one would like to be treated.
Ashkenazi Jews The second major argument, which takes up the final chapter, sets out to explain why Ashkenazi Jews have a mean IQ so much higher than that of the population in general, as well as a higher rate of some genetic disorders such as Tay-Sachs disease.
Is it really inanity, or is it just plain laziness — or perhaps cynical awareness of the ignorance and stupidity of the target audience — mostly Muslim creationists.
Prior to this, a limited version of the exhibition (featuring 8 models rather than the 19 dioramas featured in the 1987 version) had been at the Newquay Zoo in Cornwall in 1983, in Japan in 1984 and in various locations within the United States from 1985 to 1986.
At the rear of the book is a classification list which includes every genus known at the time of publication, along with locality and stratigraphic range.
Some other taxonomic choices, such as the assignment of some genera to specific groups and the use of original clades (such as "minmids" and "paxceratopsians") also received some criticism.
Doughty, Innovation Journal Dinosaur in a Haystack Hooking Leviathan by Its Past Dinomania Cordelia's Dilemma Of Tongue Worms, Velvet Worms, and Water Bears Happy Thoughts on a Sunny Day in New York City Dousing Diminutive Dennis's Debate& Audio from the Prologue - MP3
Everhart also covers the discovery of the fossils and geographic records as well as the competition between E.
It was the first substantial textbook to argue the case for Darwinian selection applying to all aspects of animal coloration.
Pannekoek's pamphlet emerged amid discussions about the interrelation between the laws of natural selection and the laws of social development, as well as debates with the then-popular ideas of social Darwinism.
It was published still in the year of his death, with Éditions du Seuil, the publishing house of Catholic intellectual Jean Plaquevent (1901–1965).
The Journal of Mental Science found his mixture of science and theology untenable but praised Clair for his sincerity in accepting the evidence for evolution.
a worthy addition to the numerous individual studies of either man", and praised Lander for providing a new means of understanding and appreciating each man.
The book received anonymous reviews by biologist Alfred Russel Wallace that were generally supportive.
In particular, the first Ukrainian translation appeared in Winnipeg, published by the Ukrayinski Robitnychi Visti (1920).
Systematics and the Origin of Species from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist is a book written by zoologist and evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr, first published in 1942 by Columbia University Press.
Intelligent Thought: Science Versus the Intelligent Design Movement is a 2006 book edited by John Brockman and published by Vintage Books.
He gives detailed examples of warning coloration and mimicry, discussing how these are produced by selection.
The British Quarterly Review commented that: We congratulate the author on the ground of his conscientious and the scientific treatment of a profound and intricate problem.
Centuries later, officers Snowy, Ahmed, Sidewise, Bonner and Moon awaken and soon realize that human civilization has long collapsed.
Sections of the book dealing with punctuated equilibrium, primarily chapter nine, have been posthumously reprinted as a separate volume by Belknap Harvard.
The human species contributes to this disruption—even without intending to—because of our innate capabilities to alter the planet at this stage of our cultural evolution; for instance, we now can harness energy from beneath the Earth's surface.
The reason is that people already have moral judgments of real world cases such as abortion and euthanasia, so there is no intuition left.
The Faith Instinct: How Religion Evolved and Why It Endures is a 2009 book about the evolution of religious behavior by New York Times science reporter Nicholas Wade, in which the author argues that religious behaviours have evolved through natural selection.
It is impossible to separate thought from matter that thinks." However, in describing this dynamic as a function of the historical process of evolution, the essay is among the most explicit and comprehensive documents on the ontology of Marx and Engels.
Gould begins with the ancient Greek philosopher Anaximander, showing that the ideas formed a tradition leading to the French naturalist Charles Bonnet.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
The Psychical Kinship The second section discusses the mental and emotional similarities between humans and nonhuman animals.
The Princeton Field Guide to Dinosaurs is a reference work on dinosaurs written by the paleontologist and paleoartist Gregory S.
The two planets eventually make peace with each other, launching a wide-scale colonization initiative.
Introduction The book is part of the Sciences et techniques series (formerly belonging to Sciences series) in the "Découvertes Gallimard" collection.
Hand waving about the creative power of the organism makes a nice-sounding philosophical position but a poor scientific theory".
According to the translator's note, Harvard philosopher William James intended to write the introduction to the book's English translation, but died in 1910 prior to the completion of the English edition in 1911.
Nature cares for the species rather than for the individual; it lets the individual reproduce and then die.
He rebuts the claim that evolution cannot create complexity: since natural selection is non-random, it can create complex adaptations by selecting for advantageous variations.
On Knight's role in the story, Ottaviani wrote: As I was reading about Cope and Marsh, I ran across Knight as something of a bit player in their lives.
Humans are novel in their ability to decouple these social and personal bonds from direct sensory contact.
Ghiselin observes that Dawkins is "not content with rebutting creationists" but goes on to press home his arguments against alternative theories to neo-Darwinism.
There could not have been a worse time than the mid-1970s for the inauguration of human sociobiology.
He follows Huxley in his account of man's embryonic development, and then considers the evidence of vestigial organs, which he (and Huxley) called rudiments (p11).
Adaptations may have sacrificed muscle strength for higher intelligence and less aggressive human behaviours.
The book was welcomed by critics in journals such as Nature and newspapers including The New York Times.
References External links Google Books - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs Macmillan Publishers - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs
"Thus in the important matter of cranial capacity, men differ more widely from one another than they do from the apes; while the lowest apes differ as much, in proportion, from the highest, as the latter does from man" (p95).
The most common interpretations of the Book of Genesis read as Adam and Eve being the first two humans to ever exist, with all of humankind descending from that single, divinely created couple.
Ghiselin, writing in The New York Times, comments that Dawkins "succeeds admirably in showing how natural selection allows biologists to dispense with such notions as purpose and design".
Moore rejects the supposed infallibility of nature arguing that morality must be created consciously.
Gould argues that during this period just after the Cambrian explosion there was a greater disparity of anatomical body plans (phyla) than exist today.
It was originally published in 2001 as five comic books, and republished as into a single graphic novel in 2003.
Relation to other works The Scopes Trial was the subject of a comprehensive study previously written by L.
He strips any local conditions peculiar to Earth from these milestones which he calls thresholds, in the hope that these thresholds will be applicable to an alien evolution in an alien planetary system.
Though clearly inspired by evolution, the fanciful story is not an attempt to accurately represent the scientific process, as an author's note confirms.
Eventually, they discover many Macrolife survivors from many previous cycles of the universe, who help them to conquer time itself.
The book rejects reductionist biology and takes influence from Michael Polanyi and vitalist philosophy.
Chapter 10: The New Pangea Kolbert points out that there is an evolutionary arms race, in which each species must be equipped to defend against their potential predators and need to be more fit than their competition.
Notwithstanding the title, the book includes the complex evolutionary records of most continents within its pages – thoroughfully described by Agustí and breathtakingly illustrated by Antón.
The Blood of the Nation: A Study in the Decay of Races by the Survival of the Unfit was the title of a number of publications by the American eugenicist David Starr Jordan, the president of Stanford University.
The collection of essays, written between 1973–1977, became a best-seller and propelled Gould to national prominence.
The final chapter, "Who were the hunters and who the hunted", concludes that australopithecines found in the three caves were brought in by carnivores, contrary to Raymond Dart's Osteodontokeratic culture hypothesis, which proposed that the bones were brought in by the australopithecines themselves.
However, many species, whose larvae are armed with these bristles, have evolved to utilize them as a defense mechanism against any perceived threat.
Both Discodoris lilacina and Tomoberthella martensi will often drop their entire mantle skirt when handled, leading to Discodoris lilacina also being called Discodoris fragilis.
It concludes by urging readers to compare the book with Darwin's Descent of Man and with Wallace's Darwinism.
Selection against the weed may occur by killing a young or adult weed, separating its seeds from those of the crop (winnowing), or both.
Not all puffers are necessarily poisonous; the flesh of the northern puffer is not toxic (a level of poison can be found in its viscera) and it is considered a delicacy in North America.
Overview There is a strong evolutionary pressure for prey animals to avoid predators through camouflage, and for predators to be able to detect camouflaged prey.
Other animals are victims of parasites that are known to alter the behavior of their host to complete their lifecycle, which results in the host's death.
He resumed his camouflage research in World War II, in the course of which he worked with Everett L.
In rodents, the response is sometimes induced by additionally pinching or attaching a clamp to the skin at the nape of the neck.
Wilkinson, unlike Kerr, had little difficulty fitting in with the naval establishment, and was put in charge of a large-scale program of painting ships in disruptive patterns that became known as "Dazzle camouflage".
In one form, first described by Lincoln Brower in 1967, weakly-defended members of a species with warning coloration are parasitic on more strongly-defended members of their species, mimicking them to provide the negative reinforcement learning required for warning signals to function.
Occurrence The giant California sea cucumber (Parastichopus californicus) will often eviscerate due to rough handling, temperature shock, or other stressful treatments.
The effect on predators Phagomimicry Phagomimicry is the defensive behaviour in which expelled chemicals mimic food, deceiving some organisms to eat it instead.
Six years later, he exhibited another comparable painting that, viewed with the unaided eye, depicted the famous transatlantic flight of Charles Lindbergh, but when viewed through an optical instrument that Bittinger had invented, appeared instead to be the Mona Lisa.
When the caller is unfamiliar, the response call is an atypical eagle alarm call, with a frequency transition at onset.
For this purpose, a light spinning rod and various artificial lures, such as spoon lures and spinners, are used.
Environmental selection may support a smaller chick size if those chicks were born in an area that allowed them to grow to a larger size, even though under normal conditions they would not be able to reach this optimal size for migration.
The sickle-cell variant survives in the population because the heterozygote is resistant to malaria and the malarial parasite kills a huge number of people each year.
By using the traditional linkage analysis, these asthma correlated genes were able to be identified in small quantities using genome-wide association studies (GWAS).
Beddard did however briefly mention other methods, including the "alluring coloration" of the flower mantis and the possibility of a different mechanism in the orange tip butterfly.
One habitat is rocky sea-side cliffs, where the plants are bushy with broad leaves and expanded inflorescences; the other is among sand dunes where the plants grow prostrate with narrow leaves and compact inflorescences.
Woodlice or pillbugs (Armadillidae) curl themselves into "pills" not only for defense, but also to conserve moisture while resting or sleeping, because they must keep their pseudotrachaea ("gills") wet.
However, he lacked evidence and explanations for some critical components of the evolutionary process.
This phenomenon is particularly conspicuous when it takes the form of mast seeding, the production of large numbers of seeds by a population of plants.
Diver (1929) found banding morphs in Cepaea nemoralis could be seen in prefossil shells going back to the Mesolithic Holocene.
Non-human apes have similar blood groups to humans; this strongly suggests that this kind of polymorphism is ancient, at least as far back as the last common ancestor of the apes and man, and possibly even further.
Varki among those who had used the term up to 2003 suggested the following definition: "The body of information describing an organism's phenotypes, under the influences of genetic and environmental factors".
The brains of pregnant females carrying male fetuses may be shielded from the masculinizing effects of androgen through the action of sex hormone-binding globulin.
Plant mimicry can broadly be divided into reproductive mimicry that deceives pollinators into providing their service without rewarding them in return, and protective mimicry that deceives herbivores into not eating the plant.
In the case of the slender crayfish, deceptive signallers largely ignored their own strength when escalating or evading aggression.
Evolution has tailored these stereotyped behaviours to allow animals to communicate both conspecifically and interspecifically which allows for a broader connection in different niches in an ecosystem.
A gene is said to be polymorphic if more than one allele occupies that gene's locus within a population.
Tenebrionidae (darkling beetles) - larvae of Asbolus verrucosus have been observed to autohaemorrhage while they feign death.
In unionid freshwater bivalves, there are lake, small river, and large river forms of several species.
Jacobson NL, Weller SJ (2002) A cladistic study of the Arctiidae (Lepidoptera) by using characters of immatures and adults.
The concept of phenotype can be extended to variations below the level of the gene which affect an organism's fitness.
Cott described many kinds of camouflage, and in particular his drawings of coincident disruptive coloration in frogs convinced other biologists that these deceptive markings were products of natural selection.
Though volatiles of any kind have an attractive effect on natural enemies, this effect is stronger for damaged plants than for undamaged plants, perhaps because induced volatiles signal definitive and recent herbivore activity.
The pied raven had large areas of white feathering, most frequently on the head, the wings and the belly, and its beak was light brown.
Investigating genes involved in wing development and morphogenetic activity has led to the discovery that Hh has a primary role in the morphogenetic signaling center of the foci.
directly useful for absorbing heat, Poulton argues, but "By far the most widespread use of colour is to assist an animal in escaping from its enemies or in capturing its prey; the former is Protective, the latter Aggressive [resemblance, i.e.
Because none of these sight records mentioned the unique black-and-white pattern and a small number of diluted, all-whitish ravens have been observed in recent decades in the Faroe Islands, none of these are officially recognised as pied ravens.
Zoology Kerr interrupted his medical studies to join an Argentinian expedition to study the natural history of the Pilcomayo River.
This technique minimizes the outflow of latex or resin beyond the cut and allows herbivores to freely feed above the damaged section.
Animal coloration provided important early evidence for evolution by natural selection, at a time when little direct evidence was available.
Use in protests Computer vision dazzle makeup has been used by protestors in several different protest movements.
The ink is extracted from the ink sacs during preparation of the dead cephalopod, usually cuttlefish, and therefore contains no mucus.
The active strategy was described as a "phantom echo" that might therefore represent "auditory crypsis" with alternative theories about interfering with the bats' echolocation ("jamming").
Function During evisceration in some species, several hundred Cuvierian tubules (part of the respiratory tree) may be expelled.
essentially the same as one widely practised during the Great War for the concealment, not of caterpillars, but of caterpillar-tractors, [gun] battery positions, observation posts and so forth." == References ==
Sheppard found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
The effects of climate change can lead to a mismatch between the seasonal coat coloration of arctic animals such as snowshoe hares with the increasingly snow-free landscape.
Pufferfish can also have many varied structures of caltrop-like dermal spines, which account for the replacement of typical fish scales, and can range in coverage extent from the entire body, to leaving the frontal surface empty.
It uses a Polaroid photograph of him, with the material of acrylic polymer paint and silk screen printing to produce a camouflage pattern over the face surrounded by black.
Gaping is part of the shark agonistic display, and is also found in snakes such as the cottonmouth, and in birds ranging from seagulls to puffins to roosters.
In either case, the variation in larval type generally involves the production of larvae that differ in feeding mode and/or developmental time.
Autotomy in sea gastropod External links The dictionary definition of autotomy at Wiktionary Physiological and Biochemical Zoology Focused Collection: Caudal Autotomy and Regeneration in Lizards: Patterns, Costs, and Benefits
Laboratory tests showed that even when provided with a non-toxic alternative prey item, the dusky rat and the grassland melomys will still eat cane toads.
Some mimetic populations have evolved multiple forms (polymorphism), enabling them to mimic several different models and thereby to gain greater protection.
Fishing (angling) for sea trout is usually carried out at night using fly-fishing techniques, but only when the rivers are running clear.
Yen Shen-Horn designates 19 unique types, separated by wing patterns which allow the ability to mimic a large variety of lepidopterans.
More detailed information can be determined using exome sequencing, which provides the specific sequence of all DNA in the coding region of the genome, or whole genome sequencing, which sequences the entire genome including non-coding regions.
Hence, the male birds, although appearing yellow to humans, actually have a violet-tinted plumage that is seen by females.
Pirate perch (Aphredoderus sayanus) may exhibit chemical crypsis, making them undetectable to frogs and insects colonizing ponds.
With this subfamily's notorious obscurity, and the relative variation between species and subspecies, the relationships between members is still quite indeterminate.
There is some evidence for this in birds, where birds that catch fish at a medium depth, rather than at the surface or on the seabed, are more often coloured in this way, and the prey of these birds would see only the underside of the bird.
Apatosaurus and Diplodocus Female Apatosaurus and Diplodocus had interconnected caudal vertebrae that allowed them to keep their tails elevated to aid in copulation.
Since the harbour seal resides in an aquatic environment, the display behaviours expressed are slightly different from those seen in terrestrial mammal species.
Implemented most often in the face of an imminent attack by a predator, unkenreflex is characterized by the subject’s contortion or arching of its body to reveal previously hidden bright colors of the ventral side, tail, or inner limb; the subject remains immobile while in unkenreflex.
In the case of countershaded mammals with dark (often brownish) upper parts and lighter (often buff or whitish) under parts, such as in the house mouse, it is the Agouti gene which creates the difference in shading.
Some plants simply tolerate a low level of herbivory by natural enemies for the service they provide in ridding the plant of more serious herbivores.
Among pill millipedes, volvation is a protection against both external threats and against dehydration.
The term poecilogony was coined by Alfred Mathieu Giard to describe a polymorphism in larval development in marine invertebrates.
In other cases, the larval type is genetically determined - a good example is the polychaete Streblospio benedicti, where some mothers release small planktotrophic eggs and other mothers release large lecithotrophic eggs.
Genes involved in this process may differ between species, but common to all plants is that systemically induced defences occur as a result of changes in gene expression.
Male fireflies from several different genera are attracted to these "femmes fatales", as the predatory females can identify the male's species and emit the appropriate signals.
Lepidoptera larvae also tie leaves together and feed on the inside of the leaves to decrease the effectiveness of the phototoxin hypericin in St.
Another adaptation associated with intravertebral autotomy is that skin flaps fold over the wound at the site of autotomy to readily seal the wound, which can minimize infection at the autotomy site.
Reproduction River trout spawn between October and January in the Northern Hemisphere, and introduced populations in the Southern Hemisphere spawn between May and June.
This could be confusing, since the orange, used in the racecourse obstacles, could be blending with grass.
Ultrasound causes flying lacewings to fold their wings and drop, an effective maneuver for evading capture by bats.
Apart from Thayer's "bizarre" flamingos, Forbes calls Thayer's opposition to Batesian mimicry "extreme".
Once they have been mapped out, cloned, and identified, it can be determined whether a mutation represents a new gene or not.
The effect of the marking and movement is to produce the deceptive appearance of a head at the wrong end of the body.
Examples across the electromagnetic spectrum Problems and Limitations As this type of camouflage hinders electromagnetic radiation, radio-communications and GPS are also hindered.
The ground attack A-10 Thunderbolt II l was sometimes painted with a camouflage scheme that included both disruptive coloration and automimicry in the form of a false canopy on the underside.
Wilkinson successfully promoted the false idea that Kerr's camouflage sought invisibility rather than image disruption.
Some species within the Arctiinae have the word "tussock"' in their common names because they have been misidentified as members of the Lymantriinae subfamily based on the characteristics of the larvae.
For example, the tropical flounder Bothus ocellatus can match its pattern to "a wide range of background textures" in 2–8 seconds.
Massachusetts Cicadas describes behavior, sightings, photos, "how to find" guide, videos and distribution maps of New England and U.S.
Description Depending on the supply of food, river trout measure 20 to 80 cm (0.66 to 2.62 ft) in length; exceptionally, they may be up to 1 m (3 ft 3 in) long and weigh up to over 13 kg (29 lb), although they usually attain an average weight of up to 2 kg (4.4 lb).
Mendelian inheritance Traits that are determined exclusively by genotype are typically inherited in a Mendelian pattern.
These sequestered iridoid glycosides then confer chemical protection against bird predators to the butterfly larvae.
For instance, when some trees experience herbivory, they release compounds that make their vegetation less palatable.
Plot summary Technical Fairy, First Class gives the troops "A Lecture On Camouflage" with the aid of Private Snafu.
In the taxonomic nomenclature of zoology, the word "morpha" plus a Latin name for the morph can be added to a binomial or trinomial name.
This is because predators attack imperfect mimics more readily where there is little chance that they are the model species.
As a result, animals have certain environmental and social cues that they can use to decide when is the most beneficial time to show such behaviours; they use these triggers to minimize cost (predator avoidance) and maximize gain (mate attraction).
Kerr again influenced British camouflage in the Second World War, this time through his pupil Hugh B.
Genotypes often have much flexibility in the modification and expression of phenotypes; in many organisms these phenotypes are very different under varying environmental conditions.
Dakin photographed model birds, much as Thayer and Cott had done, and argued that the shoulders and arms of battledress should be countershaded.
For example, tree growth has been observed to decline the year before the emergence of a brood because of the increased feeding on roots by the growing nymphs.
These are expelled slightly away from the cephalopod in question, which will often release several pseudomorphs and change colour (blanch) in conjunction with these releases.
According to an article in a popular magazine in 1921, he “painted an airplane wing with the German cross upon it, which when viewed by our [U.S.] army through binoculars equipped with a red filter, discloses itself to be not the German cross, but the red, white and blue of the Allies.
A biological pigment, also known simply as a pigment or biochrome, is a substance produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption.
Until then, mimicry in plants was studied infrequently, both because it is uncommon and because botanists considered mainly physical factors in plant ecology.
Farming of brown trout has included the production of infertile triploid fish by increasing the water temperature just after fertilisation of eggs, or more reliably, by a process known as pressure shocking.
On the contrary, when a given allele is low in frequency (p → {\displaystyle \to } 0) it will increase in frequency in the future, avoiding its extinction and maintaining polymorphism at the locus.
The philosopher Kristina Šekrst uses the findings to show that if this is held to involve self-deception, then belief is implied to be present, meaning at least Mitchell's third level of deception.
As they describe, the nomenclature for this subfamily is currently unstable and is subject to further revision.
Orthoptera Bushhoppers, such as Dictyophorus spumans, Phymateus viridipes and Phymateus leprosus – their haemolymph contains cardiac glycosides, sequestered from milkweed on which they feed.
Among animals, self-decoration is found in decorator crabs, some insects such as caddis flies and the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
Each species of cephalopod produces slightly differently coloured inks; generally, octopuses produce black ink, squid ink is blue-black, and cuttlefish ink is a shade of brown.
By emitting a small, measured amount of blue light, the aircraft's average brightness better matches that of the sky, and the aircraft is able to fly closer to its target before being detected.
Angling with natural lures (worms, maggots, grasshoppers) is discouraged in most rivers because it is difficult to throw back trout that are below the minimum landing size uninjured when they have ingested this food so quickly and deeply.
The endophallus and cornua portions of the genitalia of male honey bees (drones) also autotomize during copulation, and form a mating plug, which must be removed by the genitalia of subsequent drones if they are also to mate with the same queen.
He was able to show that the caterpillars were sensitive to the background colours and that it was perceived even when they were blinded, and was among the earliest to suggest extraocular photoreception.
He concluded that differential bird predation was a major factor responsible for the decline in carbonaria frequency compared to typica in Cambridge during the study period, and described his results as a complete vindication of the peppered moth story.
In autosomal conditions, the sex of the offspring does not play a role in their risk of being affected.
Significance The fossil represents the first known evidence that thorny bamboo existed in Asia during the Ice Age.
An example is feigned injury to get or divert attention; for example, a parent mockingbird feigning an injury to attract a predator away from its defenceless offspring Fourth-level deception: includes recognition of other animals' beliefs, i.e., second-order thinking.
To be effective defensive agents, the sequestered chemicals cannot be metabolized into inactive products.
The decorator crabs attach plants, animals, small stones, or shell fragments to their carapaces to provide camouflage that matches the local environment.
At night, they feel more confident to come out into the main river flow and can often be seen "running" (migrating upstream) in the shallow runs during the months of May to November.
When a parasitoid wasp approaches eggs that are covered by the fungus, the fungus prevents the wasp from harming the eggs about 90% of the time.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
trutta bones from an archaeological site in Italy, and ancient DNA extracted from some of these bones, indicate that both abundance and genetic diversity increased markedly during the colder Younger Dryas period, and fell during the warmer Bølling-Allerød event.
Herbivore sequestration of plant defensive compounds The field of chemical ecology has elucidated additional types of plant multitrophic interactions that entail the transfer of defensive compounds across multiple trophic levels.
When predators are flooded with potential prey, they can consume only a certain amount, so by occurring at high densities prey benefit from a safety in numbers effect.
Thayer's original argument, restated by Cott, was that nature did the exact opposite with countershading that an artist did with paint when creating the illusion of solid three-dimensionality, namely counteracting the effect of shade to flatten out form.
The biologist Steven Vogel commented that: The zoologist Hugh Cott had the final word in Adaptive Coloration in Animals (1940), a definitive synthesis of everything known about camouflage and mimicry in nature.
Incorporating these varieties or their genes into commercial maize production could increase the efficacy of nematode treatments.
Thayer notes that a few species with strong defences such as hedgehogs, porcupines, echidnas, pangolins and "some armadillos" are exceptions, along with some beasts which "enjoy a like security by virtue of their gigantic bigness", including the elephants, rhinoceroses, and hippopotamuses.
Many alternative theories were accordingly considered by biologists, threatening to undermine Darwinian evolution.
This pattern is found in many species of mammals, reptiles, birds, fish, and insects, both in predators and in prey.
Taking sex determination as the example, in humans the determination is genetic, by the XY sex-determination system.
A good example is the Indian white admiral (Limenitis procris) which has five forms, each geographically separated from the other by large mountain ranges.
In such cases, plants have been demonstrated to induce defences upon contact from the ovipositing of insects.
Evidence for this includes the occasional responsive movement, scanning of the environment and animals in tonic immobility often taking advantage of escape opportunities.
Vein cutting is when a herbivore creates small openings along the length of the leaf vein, while trenching refers to the creation of a cut across the width the leaf allowing the individual to safely consume the separated portion.
Both the Campbell monkey and the cotton-top tamarin have demonstrated abilities similar to vervet monkeys' ability to distinguish likely direction of predation and appropriate responses.
This is supported by the last sightings which occurred in the absence of a regular breeding population of piebald birds, and the observations of H.
The law has been criticised by members of the Trinidad and Tobago Police Service as the law was intended to stop impersonation of the Defence Force soldiers but led to occasions where toys with camouflage accessories were being confiscated as illegal.
However, once model and mimic have become closely similar, some degree of mutual protection becomes likely.
This results in a number of occasions at military-themed festivals where the police opted not to enforce the law.
Ultrasound avoidance in other insects In praying mantises, ultrasound avoidance behaviors are non-directional turns or power dives that are very effective in preventing capture by bats.
Coccinellidae (ladybird, ladybug or lady beetles) – An alkaloid toxin in the haemolymph is exuded through the joints of the exoskeleton, triggered by mechanical stimulation (such as predator attack).
These dauer larvae are a stress-resistant, non-feeding, long-lived stage, enabling the animals to survive harsh conditions.
Families prominent in this respect include the following: Adults of some species also have urticating scales, and some species shed some of their urticating hairs as defense for their pupae and eggs.
Caro gained his bachelor's degree in zoology at Cambridge University in 1973, and his doctorate in psychology at the University of St Andrews in 1979.
Context Charles Darwin published On the Origin of Species in 1859, arguing that evolution in nature must be driven by natural selection, just as breeds of domestic animals and cultivars of crop plants were driven by artificial selection.
Bioluminescence is common among marine animals, so counter-illumination may be widespread, though light has other functions, including attracting prey and signaling.
The slow-developing larvae do not grow much during the first year, but grow rapidly during the early part of the second summer and remain a second winter within the ant colonies.
The ambiguous uses of camouflage—drawing attention when a fashionable look and doing the opposite in military use—fascinated Warhol.
For example, the predatory cichlid Nimbochromis livingstonii lies on its side on the bottom sediments until approached by scavengers attracted to what appears to be a dead fish, whereupon H.
Armitage Department of Systematics and Ecology, University of Kansas Alarm calls of Belding's ground squirrels to aerial predators: nepotism or self-preservation?
It has the distinctive behavior of cultivating fungus on females' hind legs, which is used to protect their eggs from parasitic wasps.
Mimicry of distasteful members of the same species Automimicry was first reported by the ecologist Lincoln Brower and colleagues, who found that monarch butterflies reared on cabbage were palatable to blue jays.
His students were mostly females, who would later go on to create decorative household works, jars with lids, urns and such.
In recent times, Trinidad and Tobago officials have taken a more relaxed approach towards the matter though importation of any camouflage patterned items remains illegal.
In his 1909 book Concealing-Coloration in the Animal Kingdom, he correctly described and illustrated countershading with photographs and paintings, but wrongly claimed that almost all animals are countershaded.
Díðrikur á Skarvanesi, the Faroe painter, painted the Fuglar series, a number of portrayal of birds.
In nature the visible and invisible dance back and forth with each other, depending on how much we have learned to see.
Based on perceived threat, crickets took action to save themselves or attempted to preserve their offspring.
Punnett's 1915 Mimicry in Butterflies rejected selection as the main cause of mimicry, while Poulton supported it.
The fecal shield is a structure formed by the larvae of many species of beetles in the leaf beetle family, Chrysomelidae.
One such plant defensive strategy is the use of latex and resin canals that contain sticky toxins and digestibility reducers.
Unlike the supergene, epistatic genes do not need to be closely linked or even on the same chromosome.
For example, a polymorphic variant of the gene encoding the enzyme CYP4A11, in which thymidine replaces cytosine at the gene's nucleotide 8590 position encodes a CYP4A11 protein that substitutes phenylalanine with serine at the protein's amino acid position 434.
The evolutionary zoologist James Mallet notes that this discovery "rather illogically" followed rather than preceded the accounts of Batesian and Müllerian mimicry, which both rely on the existence and effectiveness of warning coloration.
Other species such as elephants will also mourn the death of loved ones and experience grief, often rubbing their trunks against remains and burying them with dirt.
Dubatolov VV (2008) Construction of the phylogenetic model for the genera of the tribe Arctiini (Lepidoptera, Arctiidae) with the SYNAP method.
Cott concluded that the effect was concealment "so long as the false configuration is recognized in preference to the real one".
American troops in Europe in the winter of 1944 to 1945 improvised snow capes and helmet covers from white cloth such as bed linen.
Subsequent research has provided evidence for only two functions of moth sounds, neither of which involve "auditory crypsis".
In scientific studies of biological mimicry the imitating species is called the mimic, while the imitated species (protected by its own toxicity, foul taste or other defenses) is known as the model.
Countershading, the use of different colors on upper and lower surfaces in graduating tones from a light belly to a darker back, is common in the sea and on land.
This is then transferred to the stigma of the next flower the male tries to inseminate, resulting in pollination.
There are relatively few examples of animal behaviour which might be attributed to the manipulative type of deception that occurs in humans, i.e.
In small streams, brown trout are important predators of macroinvertebrates, and declining brown trout populations in these specific areas affect the entire aquatic food web.
Defeating counter-illumination camouflage An animal camouflaged by counter-illumination is not completely invisible.
These secretions, along with the aposematic coloring common among the amphibians which display unkenreflex, serve as a warning to nearby predators that the amphibian may be poisonous.
41, ISBN 0-12-597180-X {{citation}}: |author= has generic name (help)CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Mimicry A large majority of Chalcosiine moths engage in mimicry complexes with a large variety of butterflies and moths.
Many diurnal species see the benefit of a "longer day", allowing for a longer hunting period which is detrimental to their nocturnal prey trying to avoid them.
Temperature-dependent sex determination has been proposed as an explanation for the extinction of the dinosaurs.
Using Painter's technique they studied the polytene chromosomes and discovered that the wild populations were polymorphic for chromosomal inversions.
And as of 2018, multiple countries are phasing out legacy camouflage systems with multi-spectral systems.
He has also noted that his frequent photographing spots are the beaches like Gyllyngvase, around Falmouth, Cornwall, where he is based, with the further West locations of Helford estuary and Kynance Cove being among his preferred ones.
Herbivores are believed to have evolved to evade detection on the part of the nematodes, whereas the plants have evolved to release highly attractive chemical signals.
In tournament species, the reproductive success of the small group of competition winners is predominantly higher than that of the large group of losers.
Such sums, a healthy amount of money for the impoverished Faroe farmers, made shooting a pied raven a profitable enterprise.
Self-decoration camouflage is a method of camouflage in which animals or soldiers select materials, sometimes living, from the environment and attach these to themselves for concealment.
Traits attractive to natural enemies can be physical, as in the cases of domatia and nectaries; or chemical, as in the case of induced plant volatile chemicals that help natural enemies pinpoint a food source.
Salicylic acid is a phytohormone that is one of the essential hormones for regulating plants' immune systems.
The camera shifts back to the Fairy, who points that to fool the enemy, one must blend in with the natural surroundings.
As an example, several species of bark beetle introduce blue stain fungi of the genera Ceratocystis and Ophiostoma into trees before feeding.
This may be a form of deimatic behaviour, colloquially known as a startle display or threat display, as it enlarges the appearance of the animal, and for those with teeth it shows the threat that these represent.
Post-war Later in the 20th century, as disruptively patterned uniforms became widespread, winter variants of patterns such as Flecktarn were developed, the background colour (such as green) being replaced with white to form a Schneetarn (snow camouflage pattern).
Attack protection Inking has been shown to protect species of squids against predatory fish attacks, as well during the capture phase as during the consummatory phase, due to visual and chemical effects of the ink released.
Conventional reservoir Oil and gas are generated naturally at depths of around 4 or 5 km below Earth’s surface.
Backstop resources theory states that as a heavily used limited resource becomes expensive, alternative resources will become cheap by comparison, therefore making the alternatives economically viable options.
Crude oil production has since risen sharply from 2009 through 2014, so the rate of US oil production in October 2014 was 81% higher than the average rate in 2008.
For rough comparisons, one million Btu is approximately equal to a thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
If one considers the lower heating value instead of the higher heating value, the value for one BOE would be approximately 5.4 GJ (see tonne of oil equivalent).
Oil Embargo The Baghdad Resolutions were important because Egypt broadcast claims of US aircraft support on June 6.
The Emir has promoted the idea that Kuwait should focus its energies, in terms of economic development, on the financial industry.
Data from the DOE showed substantial price hikes across fuel types, while oil firms implemented adjustments and officials attributed the increases to global market pressures despite a slight slowdown in per-barrel price growth.
A number above 50 indicates that political developments may lead to higher oil exports, while a value below 50 indicates lower exports.
Moreover, it was predicted that the oil field would produce an estimated of 30 million barrels for 15–20 years.
German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said "this is not our war, we have not started it." Trump rebuked his NATO allies, calling their decision a "very foolish mistake" and said that the United States does "not need the help of anyone" in the war.
But 1892 was the last year that Pennsylvania wells provided a majority of the oil produced in the U.S., and in 1895, Ohio surpassed Pennsylvania as an oil producer.
Distilled shale oil and oil shale gas were collected through 300-millimetre (12 in) perforated pipes.
Though oil production can be slowed, it can not be stopped completely, and even the lowest possible production level resulted in greater supply than demand.
In 2011, the OPEC Fund's then Director-General Suleiman Jasir Al-Herbish was invited to join the UN Secretary-General's High-level Group on SEforAll, which was charged with developing the Action Agenda that was presented to the 2012 Rio+20 Summit.
Prior to the new dock's arrival, the existing dock had been in continuous use and was unable to accommodate the smaller boats despite available labour.
The lower gasoline prices are a result of PEI's not charging the Provincial Sales Tax of 10% unlike in Nova Scotia where the Harmonized Sales Tax of 14% is charged.
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
This includes the "Big Three", which refers to the top three companies in the oil industry: Petron, Shell, and Caltex.
Bases for the formulation of the theory Carrying capacity limit and demographic explosion The sustainable capacity of the Earth without oil, according to some estimates, is between 500 and 2,000 million people.
President Nicolás Maduro reorganized his economic cabinet in 2016 with the group mainly consisting of leftist Venezuelan academics.
In response, producers in the region formed the Oil Creek Association to restrict output and maintain a minimum price of $4 per barrel.
Africa Algeria Algeria is an oil and natural gas producer, and one of the European Union's largest suppliers of LNG.
Alternative transport, most notably the Cuban "camels", immense 18-wheeler tractor trailers retrofitted as passenger buses meant to carry hundreds of Cubans each, flourished.
The Economics Department and the Technical Affairs Department jointly form the Arab Center for Energy Studies, established in 1983.
Governments start biofuel planting programs, while nations with established biofuel industries, such as Brazil, are able to mitigate the effects of fuel shortages.
Member states As of 2022, the OPEC Fund has 12 member states: Ecuador reactivated its membership in June 2014 after a 22-year absence.
So the biggest field in the world is Ghawar, with 80 billion in it perhaps, you step outside from this trend to Safaniya with 35 perhaps, Hanifah about 12 and Shaybah 15, and you come on down.
US oil production The charts below gives an example of the application of the Hubbert Linearization technique in the case of the US Lower-48 oil production.
1980s-1990s Construction of the centralised field facilities at Champion-7 began in 1980 until 1983.
Hungary: On February 22, 2026, Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó signaled a more cautious approach toward halting electricity supplies to Ukraine, stepping back from earlier threats of a total cutoff.
Iran: 'regular' gasoline has an octane rating of 87 RON, which is the most prevalent type of gasoline available throughout the country.
Prelude The AIOC was the United Kingdom's "single largest overseas asset" and a "source of national pride" in the British post-war era of Clement Attlee and Ernest Bevin.
However the crisis was brought to a stop after the ship Nevaska Lady on 11 November 2017 with 40,000 metric tonnes of fuel which was reported as being sufficient for twenty days.
Without structural changes in global monetary policies, consumer behavior, and production models, overconsumption will likely continue accelerating alongside economic expansion.
These declarations eliminated certain size and weight restrictions on vehicles carrying gasoline, and the hours during which they are allowed to deliver.
The impacts of the conflict are similar to the 1970s energy crisis, including acute supply shortages, currency volatility, inflation, and heightened risks of stagflation and recession.
In August 2023, The New York Times and The Washington Post described Held as a "landmark" climate case.
In the grant system, the license will be granted to the company or joint venture that shows the highest interest and ability for the exploration of the license.
After Hurricane Katrina, the energy committees in both the Senate and the House hold hearings about the sudden rise in gasoline prices, the first time that they have gone over $3 per gallon.
Production decline curve analysis is important in determining the value in oil and gas wells in oil and gas economics.
Other notable speakers have included former United States Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin, United States Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman, former Colorado Senator Gary Hart; former United States Secretary of Commerce Donald L.
Third, a number of oil-producing countries lacked the capital and technical expertise to run the oil production, as well as needed access to North American and European markets.
Iraq plans to increase its oil productive capacity to 4 million barrels (640 thousand cubic metres) per day in 2000 and 6 million bbl (950 thousand m3) per day in 2010.
That same year, the Humble Oil Company (today Exxon Corporation) was formed by Ross Sterling and Walter William Fondren in Humble, Texas.
The operation was given on a context where China dominated crude oil importations, with approximately 400 million tons as of 2017 as stated by Sinopec, one of China's biggest oil companies.
He was finally captured in 1994 in Khartoum, Sudan, and is serving life sentences for at least 16 other murders.
Legal legislative principles and texts The company follows the legal responsibilities of EU law and is compliant with the relevant national and EU legislative texts for different resources including electricity, natural gas, and energy efficiency.
Refineries produce many products from crude oil, including gasoline, kerosene, diesel, heating oil, aviation fuel, bitumen and others.
The area developed after a road was constructed to link up with a pilot station that was to be built at Watsons Bay (Old South Head Road).
The concept is known colloquially as "rocket and feather pricing" or "rockets and feathers", an analogy which describes the price rising rapidly like a rocket, but falling slowly like a feather.
Montreal becomes the first Canadian city to hold a major downtown, weekday street closure for automobiles.
World Hydrocarbon Markets: Current Status, Projected Prospects, and Future Trends, (1983), By Miguel S.
Garin said fuel supply remained adequate, with about 50 days of inventory and ongoing deliveries, but stated that price controls were not permitted under existing law.
In July of the same year, the series appeared on a list of the all time top 50 anime, according to Wizard Magazine.
Mr Hughes said forensic accountants Worrells Solvency & Forensic Accountants had approached all creditors including himself seeking further funds.
Tierney made unabashed reference to that legendary wager as he gave his apologetic for embarking upon this redux of it: I didn't try to argue with [Simmons] about Saudi Arabia, because I know next to nothing about oil production there or anywhere else.
See also Energy crisis 1970s energy crisis 1973 energy crisis 1979 energy crisis 1980s oil glut == References ==
Due to development of the tense situation the general public started panic buying causing the reserves to deplete faster than expected.
The BOE is used by oil and gas companies in their financial statements as a way of combining oil and natural gas reserves and production into a single measure, although this energy equivalence does not take into account the lower financial value of energy in the form of gas.
It is updated quarterly and made freely available to the public via the index website and Twitter feed.
It is approximately 42 gigajoules or 11.630 megawatt-hours, although as different crude oils have different calorific values, the exact value is defined by convention; several slightly different definitions exist.
On the other hand, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown called for international action and said Britain had to be "selective" in supporting biofuels, and depending on the UK's assessment of biofuels' impact on world food prices, "we will also push for change in EU biofuels targets".
Canadian Crude Edmonton Par and Western Canadian Select (WCS) "are benchmarks [sic] crude oils for the Canadian market.
However, Australian unions criticized the deal, highlighting the UAE's poor human rights and labor record, including modern slavery under the kafala system.
petrodollar as a main currency in crude oil transactions, whose hegemony has led the market since the dollar standard was first established in 1971, replacing the gold standard and giving the United States the power to manage most of the world's currency supply (around ~60%).
Proven oil reserves are those quantities of petroleum which, by analysis of geological and engineering data, can be estimated with a high degree of confidence to be commercially recoverable from a given date forward from known reservoirs and under current economic conditions.
The King agreed to this 50/50 splitting of Aramco's oil profits instead of nationalizing Aramco's oil facilities on Saudi soil.
300 Army personnel were eventually trained to drive fuel tankers and were placed on standby to help maintain essential supplies.
Sources This article uses text from Internal Revenue Code, Section 613(b), and Publication 535 (2013), Business Expenses which are in the Public Domain as works of the US Federal Government == References ==
Numbered terms The engineering term P90 refers to 90 percent engineering probability, is a commonly accepted specific definition by Society of Petroleum Engineers, it does not take into account anything except technical concerns.
Additionally, as of 2006, there are more than 296,000 natural gas stripper wells in the lower 48 states.
Petron (Mandaluyong) Petro Gazz Phoenix (Davao City) Jetti (Pasay) Seaoil (Pasig) Flying V (TWA, Inc.; Quezon City) Unioil (Pasig) Clean Fuel (Pasig) Foreign List of gas station chains ran by companies which are headquartered outside the Philippines.
In 2011, it had so many problems that rations on electricity were put in place to help ease blackouts.
Drake strikes oil Drake began drilling for oil in Titusville near Oil Creek, but at first met with little success.
The plane first stopped in Algiers, where Carlos left the plane to meet with the Algerian Foreign minister Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
Energy Intelligence Group publishes a handbook which identified 195 major crude streams or blends in its 2011 edition.
Paddington Reservoir Gardens In 2006 architects Tonkin Zulaikha Greer and landscape architects JMD Design began work to conserve, restore and reuse the space of the then derelict Paddington Reservoir.
Oil wells are generally classified as stripper wells when they produce 15 barrels per day or less for any twelve-month period.
Commercially, light crude oil sells for a higher price of petroleum than does heavy crude oil, because the fractional distillation of light crude oil produces greater percentages of gasoline and diesel fuel per unit of petroleum.
Each afternoon, the prices for the next day are released to the public and the media, allowing consumers to make an informed decision whether to fill up today or tomorrow, safe in the knowledge that prices cannot change.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
From 1994 to 2006, approximately 177,000 marginal wells were plugged and abandoned, representing a number equal to 42 percent of all operating wells in 2006, costing the U.S.
The local plan identifies unbalanced development between the east and west sides of the Belait River and stresses the need to research the ecological impact on forest swamp areas and explore the potential of the Belait River as an internal port to support economic activities in the region.
In September 2025, Reuters reported that Russia was seeing certain fuel grade shortages, with the reduced refinery runs caused by the drone attacks and high borrowing costs leading to private filling stations being unable to stockpile fuel according to retailers and traders.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
Relinquished licenses can be re-attributed in next licensing rounds, or even kept as relinquished if the government believes there is little interest on that area for the petroleum exploration.
The OPEC Basket, including a mix of light and heavy crude oil products, is heavier than both Brent crude oil, and West Texas Intermediate crude oil.
The allowance encouraged people who were taxed at a high marginal rate to invest in, perhaps risky, oil ventures.
Many large economies, like the EU, US and China, were unable to support 2005 levels of growth, and China almost fell into its own financial crisis during its 2015 stock market bubble and crash.
Extraterrestrial argument The presence of methane on Saturn's moon Titan and in the atmospheres of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune is cited as evidence of the formation of hydrocarbons without biological intermediate forms, for example by Thomas Gold.
Imagawa intended The Day the Earth Stood Still to be the second to final chapter in the conflict between the Experts of Justice and Big Fire.
Tourism Algeria's tourism industry, which contributes only about 1 percent of GDP, lags behind that of its neighbors Morocco and Tunisia.
OPEC From 1980 to 1986, OPEC decreased oil production several times in an attempt to maintain oil's high prices.
Vicious circle With more than 50% of all consumers in Sofia refusing to pay their bills, Toplofikacia ran into debt with the Bulgarian energy provider Bulgargas.
The discovery of massive oil fields in Saudi Arabia threatened to scuttle the cartel, as control of the oil fields by two companies could undermine existing supply management schemes.
Montana's Supreme Court heard oral arguments on July 10, 2024, its seven justices taking the case under advisement.
Derived units For multiples of the tonne of oil equivalent, it is more usual to speak of millions of tonnes of oil equivalent and kilotonnes of oil equivalent (ktoe).
The France, Germany, and Italy agreement France, Germany and Italy have an oil-sharing agreement in place that allows them to buy oil from each other in the event of an emergency.
Also, the electrical power service contract for residential charging stations can be independent of household consumption under a commercial rate, which can save up to 40% on electricity compared to consolidating billing in the same meter.
For light oils and rich gas condensates the ultimate GOR of export streams is strongly influenced by the efficiency with which the processing plant strips liquids from the gas phase.
Yamaki had intended to use a star system and feature characters from Yokoyama's works with the same appearance but different personalities, but Imagawa wanted to keep the characters as they were.
The country is the fifth largest oil producing nation in Africa, which has helped drive its strong growth in the later 20th century.
The time to reach this break-even point is called energy payback period (EPP) or energy payback time (EPBT).
Fico specifically linked his opposition to the suspension of oil transit through the Druzhba pipeline, characterizing the situation as a deliberate provocation by Ukraine.
In Crimea, Russian occupation officials limited gasoline sales to 20 liters per customer and imposed price caps.
The other well-known classifications (also called references or benchmarks) are the OPEC Reference Basket, Dubai Crude, Oman Crude, Shanghai Crude, Urals oil and West Texas Intermediate (WTI).
On 26 March 2018, the Chinese government issued the first long term oil trading contracts denominated in petroyuans.
Delegates of friendly countries were moved toward the door, 'neutrals' were placed in the centre of the room and the 'enemies' were placed along the back wall, next to a stack of explosives.
From 1974 through 1981, the total current account surplus for all members of OPEC amounted to US$450 billion, without scaling-up for the subsequent decades of inflation.
Electric Vehicle and EVSE Incentives by State, September 2014 New Energy Tax Credits for Electric Vehicles purchased in 2009 Overview of Tax Incentives for Electrically Chargeable Vehicles in the E.U.
Exports from the region are typically going to Asian countries, with China, India, Japan and South Korea accounting for 75% of oil and 59% of LNG exports.
In June 2008, Daniel Yergin said that markets have helped fuel a "shortage psychology" that the world is "running out of oil".
A national oil company (NOC) is a petroleum company that is fully or partly owned by the government of a sovereign nation.
John Maynard Keynes's concept of reaching saturation John Maynard Keynes was the paradigm founder of modern macroeconomics, and is widely considered today to be the most influential economist of the 20th century.
Prices are revised on the 1st and 15th day of each month, or whenever the price raises or falls on the market sufficiently to interrupt the cycle by triggering an interrupting formula.
The oil depletion allowance has been subject of interest because one method (percentage depletion) of claiming the allowance makes it possible to write off more than the whole capital cost of the asset.
This was the first rise in petrol prices in 20 years and he also set in place a sharp devaluation of the currency which he said aimed to shore up the country's failing economy, hard hit by falling oil prices which make up 95% of foreign income.
Since the giant Cantarell Field in Mexico is now in decline, the state oil company Pemex has faced intense political opposition to opening up the country's oil and gas sector to foreign participation.
Announced in December 2017, it was claimed to be backed by the country's oil and mineral reserves, and it was intended to supplement Venezuela's plummeting bolívar fuerte currency, purportedly as a means of circumventing U.S.
The state-owned company Petroecuador plays a pivotal role in the oil sector, often operating in partnership with private and foreign corporations .
On 8 April, the Energy Policy Administration Committee announced on the Royal Gazette of Thailand that diesel prices would be cut at the refinery level by 2 THB per litre, aiming to reduce fuel costs and cost of living for Thai citizens.
Madhesi protesters have stepped up attacks against Nepali media outlets, with a Kathmandu Post media van torched on 28 December.
Generally, this short period initially brings economic benefits, in terms of increased GDP growth, but might later lead to a resource curse.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
On 23 March, in response to President Trump's comments on US–Iranian negotiations, Brent crude prices fell from US$114 to US$102 per barrel.
During their five-day presentation of their case, almost all of the plaintiffs themselves testified, as did eight plaintiffs' expert witnesses on topics including climate change, renewable energy, energy policy in Montana, and children's physical and mental health.
The OVA would be preceded by The Birth of Zangetsu the Midday, The Plan to Assassinate Daisaku - the Canary Penitentiary, The Boy of Three Days, The Greatest Battle in History - General Kanshin vs.
Economic growth The state of the economy can have a considerable effect on the demand for natural gas in the short term.
Singapore and Australia made an agreement to keep their energy trade flowing, and Singapore economic officials have said that the country's refineries are maintaining stable operations and drawing on diverse supplies of crude oil.
Although events such as these can temporarily disrupt oil supplies and elevate prices, the frequent disputes and instabilities tend to limit OPEC's long-term cohesion and effectiveness.
Stripper wells are more common in older oil and gas producing regions, most notably in Appalachia, Texas and Oklahoma.
Under the Bolivarian government, poverty decreased initially when Venezuela acquired oil funds, though poverty began to increase to its highest level in decades in the 2010s.
A 2020 study published in Scientific Reports, in which both population growth and deforestation were used as proxies for total resource consumption, warns that if consumption continues at the current rate for the next several decades, it can trigger a full or almost full extinction of humanity.
Oil and gas account for approximately 22.3% of Saudi GDP and 55% of government revenue, with substantial fluctuations depending on oil prices each year.
For the more polluting vehicles, the government intends to increase the maximum malus fee to €10,000 from €8,000 in 2016 for vehicles emitting more than 191 g/km, lowering the limit from 200 g/km in 2016.
On 13 March, Saudi Arabia reduced its oil production by 20%, from 10 million barrels per day to 8 million, after the shutdown of two of Saudi Aramco's offshore fields, including Safaniya.
In fact, gas dissolution and oil volume shrinkage will happen at many stages during the path of the hydrocarbon stream from reservoir through the wellbore and processing plant to export.
Single-player mode limits the players to the fictional Western Coalition, while online modes let players play as either the Western Coalition (WC) or Red Star Alliance (RSA).
Jum'ah, President, Director and CEO of Saudi Aramco states that the world has adequate reserves of conventional and nonconventional oil sources that will last for more than a century.
The series features characters and plotlines from the manga artist's entire canon of work, effectively creating an all-new story.
The legacy fund was established to ensure that the financial windfall gained from the Bakken Oil Boom would benefit the state in the long-run, even if oil prices collapse.
As peaking is approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically, and, without timely mitigation, the economic, social, and political costs will be unprecedented.
In such cases, the swing producer switches to the punitive mode and greatly increases its product output in order to reduce prices, causing losses for other producers and making them cooperate.
The modest level of tourism is attributable to a combination of poor hotel accommodations and the threat of terrorism.
Music The score of Giant Robo was composed, arranged and conducted by Masamichi Amano and performed by the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir.
By the 1970s, there were shortages of price-regulated interstate gas, while unregulated gas within the gas-producing states (intrastate gas) was plentiful, but more expensive.
Catastrophe The use of fossil fuels allows humans to participate in takedown, which is the consumption of energy at a greater rate than it is being replaced.
The term, analogous to others such as Big Tech, Big Steel, Big Tobacco, Big Soda, and Big Pharma which describe industries dominated by a few giant corporations, was popularized in print from the late 1960s.
However, after the discovery of highly aliphatic biopolymers in algae, and that oil generating kerogen essentially represents concentrates of such materials, no theoretical problem exists anymore.
Ruling and appeal Judge Seeley's August 14, 2023 judgment ruled in favor of the youth plaintiffs, declaring the 2023 version of the MEPA limitation (HB 971) and a similar 2023 law (SB 557) to be unconstitutional.
This 50/50 deal accorded the American oil companies a tax break equivalent to 50% of their profits on oil sales, with the other 50% to be diverted to King Ibn Saud via the US Treasury.
Crude oil became the world's most actively traded commodity, with the NYMEX Division light sweet crude oil futures contract becoming the world's most liquid form for crude oil trading, as well as the world's largest-volume futures contract trading on a physical commodity.
Reserves growth also commonly occurs in previously existing fields, as the characteristics of the reservoir become better understood, as fields are extended laterally, or new oil and gas reservoirs are found in existing fields.
As requested, a bus was provided the following morning at 6:40 and 42 hostages were boarded and taken to Vienna International Airport.
The Hardisty rail terminal can load up to two 120-railcar unit trains per day "with 30 railcar loading positions on a fixed loading rack, a unit train staging area and loop tracks capable of holding five unit trains simultaneously".
The global recession of 1973–1975 proved more effective than the United Nations in ending the global demand for Rhodesian products, which made the Rhodesian recession especially severe.
The USD black market exchange rate remains to fluctuate substantially due to the devaluation of the Lebanese pound caused by sharp USD shortages within Lebanon.
Whether the DME will be successful, and whether Omani futures prices will be adopted by producers and buyers as a benchmark, remain to be seen.
According to The New York Times and the BBC, the Lebanese people celebrated the arrival of the first fuel trucks.
Bardi's book looked at cases of rapid decline across societies (including the fall of empires, financial crises, and major famines), in nature (including avalanches), and through man-made systems (including cracks in metal objects).
Other private reserves of petroleum products for an additional 130,000,000 barrels (21,000,000 m3) The state-controlled reserves and the privately held stockpiles total about 470 million barrels by 2026 (583,000,000 barrels (92,700,000 m3) in 2002).
This interrupter would be initiated on the day of the price change or the next day when rack prices in Nova Scotia would change.
From 1983 to 1985, these contracts were for 500,000 barrels of Brent Blend crude, and were increased to 600,000 barrels after 1985.
After waiting for the militants to leave, Yamani and the other nine hostages followed and were taken to the airport by Algerian Foreign Minister Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
The WTI delivery price difference between months resulted in unusually high contango; purchasing cheap physical oil to storage for later sale.
The United States imported 28 percent of its oil in 1982 and 1983, down from 46.5 percent in 1977, due to lower consumption.
During that period, he headed Iran's delegations to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), served as deputy to Minister Jamshid Amouzegar and served multiple terms on OPEC's Board of Governors, in Vienna, Austria.
Since 2013, SOFAZ owns a 2.95% stake in state-owned Russian VTB Bank until now this investment has paid USD 57.3 million in dividends to SOFAZ.
The barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) is a unit of energy based on the approximate energy released by burning one barrel (42 US gallons, 35 imp gal or about 159 litres) of crude oil.
In January 1980, he issued the Carter Doctrine, declaring: "An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States".
Background The summit was announced during the first meeting of the High-Level Ad Hoc Group for the 3rd Gas Summit on 20 May 2015.
On 29 September, Forbes reported that the issues with fuel had worsened quickly and spread across much of the country, with rising prices, rationing, long queues and pumps running dry in some cases.
Crude oil storage space became a tradable commodity with CME Group— which owns NYMEX— offering oil-storage futures contracts in March 2015.
Bill 971 exempted the DEQ from "adhering to air quality and emissions standards when authorizing or changing permits".
Similarly, Venezuela's proven reserves jumped in the late 2000s when the heavy oil of the Orinoco Belt was judged economic.
Fuel Pricing Software is a business tool intended to allow retail fuel marketers to determine the most appropriate price at which to offer fuel based on their pricing strategies.
All six of these companies are vertically integrated within the industry and operate upstream, midstream, and downstream.
MON testing uses a similar test engine to that used in RON testing, but with a preheated fuel mixture, higher engine speed, and variable ignition timing to further stress the fuel's knock resistance.
While new tanks have been added in Cushing for a storage capacity of 6.6 million barrels, by March 2015 all the tanks were fully leased through 2015.
Economic importance In the United States in 2015, 11 percent of crude oil produced comes from a marginal oil well, and over 85 percent of the total number of U.S.
It also provides processing, storage, logistics and other services to commodity producers and consumers.
Operation Desert (German: Unternehmen Wüste) was a German synthetic fuel project during World War II.
Canada also significantly increased oil production during the 2000s oil crisis, mostly in Alberta in the form of the Athabasca oil sands, though a transportation and logistics crisis in Alberta has slowed continued growth in supplies.
The production of the catalyst requires a particular melting process in which used raw materials must be free of catalyst poisons and the promoter aggregates must be evenly distributed in the magnetite melt.
Economic growth during the 1980s was nil, and the period is often called a "lost decade" for Mexico.
Gas prices have risen $1.16 a gallon in the United States since the start of the war, with prices expected to hit $5.00 a gallon if the Strait of Hormuz is not opened by Mid-April.
The OPEC Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund) is an intergovernmental development finance institution established in 1976 by the member states of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.
One European diplomat voiced that a security clause in the EU's Ukraine trade agreement could permit the Ukrainian government to halt supplies to the EU as needed based on their own sanctions.
Various critiques challenge the theoretical foundations and assert that alternative perspectives, such as those of Cornucopians, proponents of resource-based economies, and environmentalist positions, do not support the claims made by the Olduvai Theory.
Firzli, writing in a Saudi Arabian journal World Pensions Forum, warned that the escalating oversupply could have durably negative economic consequences for all Gulf Cooperation Council member states.
China's slowing economy led to many other economies slowing or falling into recession, and the end of Quantitative Easing in the United States also contributed.
It represented Labour's attempt at combating the rampant inflation which took hold in the early-1970s following the "Barber boom" and the 1973 oil crisis, by utilizing their close links with the trade union movement.
According American Indian historian Nick Estes, the Dakota Access pipeline transports 800,000 barrels of tar sands oil across 1,200 miles of land each day and traverses through 357 tributaries of the Missouri River and the Ogallala aquifer.
Brazil France France had relied to a significant extent on imported petroleum for electricity production prior to the 1973 oil price shock.
China In March 2018, China opened a futures market denominated in Yuan which could encourage the use of its currency as a petrocurrency.
Players who ordered Frontlines: Fuel of War from GameStop or Best Buy were given a special code which gave access to one of two Challenge Maps.
In September 1985, Saudi Arabia became unhappy with de facto propping up prices by lowering its own production in the face of high output from elsewhere in OPEC.
Freeze on first generation biofuel production The prospects for the use of biofuels could change in a relatively dramatic way in 2014.
See also Climate, Community & Biodiversity Alliance Verified Carbon Standard References External links Gold Standard organization
The combined gasoline-electricity fuel economy rating of the 2016 model year Volt was 77 mpg‑US (3.1 L/100 km; 92 mpg‑imp) equivalent, 82 MPGe (2.9 Le/100 km) in city driving and 72 MPGe (3.3 Le/100 km) in highway.
In March 2017, Trump signed an executive order to officially nullify Obama's Clean Power Plan in an effort, it said, of reviving the coal industry.
As SREC supply catches up to SREC demand, pricing will likely decrease, resulting in an intended deceleration in solar installations.
Background In its first period (2008–2012), the 1997 Kyoto Protocol encompassed CO2 emissions from airports and domestic aviation but not from international aviation.
Exporters have to pay the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism from 1 January 2026 until the Turkish ETS starts.
The AETF was founded to assist all potential stakeholders understand and respond to emissions trading developments both domestically and internationally.
A JI project might involve, for example, replacing a coal-fired power plant with a more efficient combined heat and power plant.
Lessons from Milnthorpe Arboretum for native establishment There is a pleasant mix of native understory species in the at Milnthorpe, such as tree ferns, māhoe (whiteywood) and coprosma.
2015: Trudeau pledges to act if elected In February 2015, Justin Trudeau announced that he would impose carbon pricing if elected.
Element Markets, LLC is a limited liability company that provides environmental asset management and compliance services to institutional clients in North America.
The tax would also affect natural gas distributors, which would pay about CA$39 million annually, and electricity distributor Hydro-Québec, which would pay CA$4.5 million annually for its Sorel-Tracy, Quebec-based thermal energy plant.
TCM deputy director Ezra Silk called the agreement "historic in the sense that the Munich Agreement was historic - a catastrophic act of appeasement meant to maintain business-as-usual arrangements." He explained: "It's widely recognized that this agreement is not even close to what is needed...
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
Estimates indicate that an IMO GHG pricing mechanism may generate up to 40-60 billion US dollars every year up to 2050.
CO2-Plume Geothermal (CPG) is a proposed technology that combines carbon capture and storage (CCS/CCUS) with geothermal energy extraction, utilising carbon dioxide (CO2) itself as a geothermal energy extraction fluid.
It is equipped with an underbody CNG tank, making it the first passenger car in the world to adopt such CNG tank position.
The exchange traded in emissions of six gases: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons.
Structural adjustment policies were most effective in countries with an institutional framework that allowed these policies to be implemented easily.
Status The policy document outlining the Energiewende was published by the German government in September 2010, six months before the Fukushima nuclear accident.
These criteria are intended to ensure that the emission reduction is a permanent reduction from the emissions that would otherwise be allowed to offset the permanent increase in emissions from the new or expanding source.
However, providing information about specific revenue uses in countries that have implemented carbon taxes has been shown to have limited effectiveness in increasing public support.
The city of Melbourne is working with the wider Australian government to make Melbourne carbon neutral by the year 2050.
This accounts for feedback loops without jumping straight to tipping points ×1(T > T*) is an indicator function that activates when temperature exceeds tipping threshold T* (e.g.
Services and products Carbon Clear offers sustainability services including energy management, carbon footprint services, strategy and target setting and climate change risks and opportunities analysis.
Controversially, the question of whether to include agriculture in the scheme was omitted from the terms of reference of the review.
Alberta-based credits A facility can purchase credits from large emitters that have reduced their emissions intensity beyond their 12 per cent target.
Emissions trading is a key element of the Kyoto Protocol and subsequent proposals to manage global greenhouse gas emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Anaerobic digestion uses a chemical process to break down organic matter with the use of microorganisms in the absence of oxygen to produce biogas.
CERs can be purchased from the primary market (purchased from an original party that makes the reduction) or secondary market (resold from a marketplace).
Effect on companies Caps will be placed on carbon emissions and every company that use carbon-based fuel to produce some sort of product will have to buy carbon permits.
New orders, September 2015 In September 2015, Volkswagen's Belgian importer, D'Ieteren, announced that it would offer free engine upgrades to 800 customers who had ordered a vehicle with a diesel engine which was likely to have been fitted with illegal software.
Simplify and expand carbon market rules, including the Clean Development Mechanism, to encourage reforestation, afforestation and sustainable forest management.
This reflects the value of the co-benefits and the perceived value of association with these projects.
In arguments for excluding these emissions, it is assumed that oil produced by EOR displaces conventionally produced oil instead of adding to the global consumption of oil.
Events such as wildfires or disease, economic pressures, and changing political priorities can result in the sequestered carbon being released back into the atmosphere.
The Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) is a non-profit organisation that facilitates funding to UK-based research and development projects developing net-zero emission technologies.
The act amended the Title Conditions (Scotland) Act 2003, by inserting a new section creating an additional personal real burden, known as a "climate change burden", which conveyancers can use in their work.
However, considering the size of its economy and its high position on emission rankings, the country could not avoid international pressure for stronger commitment.
This includes advancing mutual recognition of carbon pricing systems, creating tools to help governments navigating border carbon adjustments and carbon pricing.
In November 2018, representatives of CO2balance presented the 2018 .eu Web Award for a Better World to the Stardust Smart Cities project in Brussels.
The IPCC said that if governments were supportive, and the full range of renewable technologies were deployed, renewable energy could account for almost 80% of the world's energy supply within four decades.
See also Emissions trading Flexible mechanisms Assigned amount units Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit == References ==
Based on the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism, CEB VER establishes criteria for validating, measuring, and monitoring carbon offset projects with the option to trade carbon credits and use them for surrendering for individuals, organizations or companies that want to be carbon neutral.
They believe that such a level carries the risk of triggering a cascade of unpredictable climate feedback effects.
Provide assistance for developing nations to build capacity to fully participate in the carbon markets, and to evaluate the ecosystem services their forests provide.
Unlike the original Eclipse, however, the Eclipse Cross is not assembled in the United States as Mitsubishi closed its Diamond-Star Motors plant in Normal, Illinois in February 2016.
Livestock is known to significantly contribute to global warming, and to negatively impact global nitrogen cycles and biodiversity.
The formula C = ((Va × Ea) + (Vo × Eo)) / L How it works Corporations have multiple ways to balance their carbon liability.
In September 2019 at the UN Climate Summit, it was announced that 5 new countries were joining the coalition: Austria, Chile, Italy, Japan and Timor-Leste.
See also Carbon emissions trading Politics of global warming Economics of global warming Mitigation of global warming Greenhouse Mafia References == Further reading and external links ==
As of December 2, 2023, 95 cities and subnational governments have either formally endorsed the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty or signed the Mayors Declaration.
That therefore provides businesses and consumers with incentives to use and invest in low-emissions technologies.
These mechanisms include emissions trading, Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), and Joint Implementation (JI).
Carbon markets compensate for companies' greenhouse gas emissions and purchasing these carbon credits can remove or reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
Interim results for the period from June to mid-July showed that 35% of participants used buses and trains more, while 3% used their cars less.
The Accord goes on to note in section 8 that the collective commitment by developed countries for new and additional resources, including forestry and investments through international institutions, will approach US$30 billion for the period 2010-2012.
At COP 17 (2011), decision 12/CP.17 provided additional guidance on safeguard information and reference level modalities.
The first pre-compliance RGGI auction took place in September 2008, and the program became effective on January 1, 2009.
In practical terms, the report treated standardised products and contracts as tools to make credits easier to compare and trade across different market venues and counterparties.
The reaction rate can in principle be accelerated with a catalyst or by increasing pressures, or by mineral pre-treatment, although this method can require additional energy.
Ofgem has been appointed the scheme administrator on behalf of the Department for Energy Security & Net Zero.
In a 2013 study of 78 voluntary market-based projects, located in 23 countries in Africa, of the project developers 59% were private international businesses, 28% were international non-profit organizations, 9% were private local businesses, and 4% were local non-profit organizations.
The UK's Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research has been researching this scheme since 2003, and more recently the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce (RSA) through its CarbonLimited project.
Operations CO2balance operates as both a primary project developer and a consultant for a range of carbon management services for both private and public sector organisations.
It highlights the diversity and flexibility of emissions trading across different jurisdictions with varying geographical scope, economic profiles, and energy mixes.
The funding for the refund comes from the utility providers who pay a carbon tax for polluting the air, and the refund is the dividend portion of the carbon fee and dividend program created by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006.
The design firm aimed to produce a deluxe sedan which did without the numerous exterior features and detailing found on existing Japanese premium sedans, in favor of a more simplified, European-style appearance.
As such, approximately 85% of the United States' emissions would have been covered for the year 2000.
The Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) was a voluntary, legally binding greenhouse gas reduction and trading system for emission sources and offset projects in North America and Brazil.
The premise is that experienced companies would bring their technology to Brazil, in an effort to reduce methane gas emissions.
The following cities have plans to introduce LEZs: Aberdeen (2020), Bath (2021), Birmingham (2019), Derby, Dundee (2020), Edinburgh (2020), Manchester (2022), Newcastle (2021), and Sheffield (2021).
It is a term with growing importance as legislation globally moves to internalize the impact of CO2 emission through cost mechanisms.
Funding for the London Accord has come from the City of London Corporation, Z/Yen Group and Gresham College.
Implementation In June 2024 Denmark, a major pork and dairy exporter, announced that it will introduce a tax on livestock carbon dioxide emissions from 2030, making it the first country to do so and hoping to inspire other countries to follow.
The term commonly encompasses two broad categories: large-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation modification (SRM).
In the Uniform Price scenario with a price of 50 dollars per ton of CO2, for 5 countries the revenue can represent more than 1% of the overall governmental revenue.
Emissions trading basically refers to the trading of emissions allowances (carbon credits) between one regulated entity and a less pollutive entity.
The Liquidity Network, an initiative of the Foundation for the Economics of Sustainability is proposing to introduce a community run emissions reduction currency in the County of Kilkenny in Ireland.
In 2009, a number of governments agreed to work on allowing the Kyoto Protocol to reduce and allocate international aviation emissions through the International Civil Aviation Organization.
The species' diploid stage was initially described as Falkenbergia hillebrandii (Bornet) Falkenberg 1901 because it was thought to be a separate species.
At a nearby location, production wells would then extract the geothermally heated supercritical CO2 back to the surface, where it would be expanded in a turbine to generate electricity.
Cost implications for new coal-fired power plants Newly built coal-fired power plants can be made to immediately use gasification of the coal prior to combustion.
Pea soup fog (also known as a pea souper, black fog or killer fog) is a very thick and often greenish-yellow fog caused by air pollution that contains tarry soot particulates and the poisonous gas sulphur dioxide.
These credits are largely traded in form of Certified Emission Reduction (CER), or Emission Reduction Unit (ERU).
The ratification by Russia on 18 November 2004 satisfied the "55%" clause and brought the treaty into force, effective 16 February 2005, after the required lapse of 90 days.
Cummins was found to have installed devices designed to bypass or disable emissions controls on 960,000 Dodge and Stellantis RAM pickup truck diesel engines between 2013 and 2023.
Nuclear power Nuclear power has been used since the 1950s as a low-carbon source of baseload electricity.
As the carbon market developed, the company started to explore the possibility of implementing carbon projects in Africa, as a means to channel revenue from carbon finance into the sustainable development of some of the world's poorest communities.
United States The United States Department of Energy (DOE), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Center for Resource Solutions (CRS) recognizes the voluntary purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources (also called renewable electricity or green electricity) as green power.
See also Air pollution Chlorofluorocarbons Recycling References External links Government of Canada - One-Tonne Challenge Archived 2004-04-03 at the Wayback Machine Yukon News - Conservatives Nix One Tonne Challenge
2005 Climate Stewardship and Innovation Act Under a slightly modified title, but with similar provisions, the Act (S.
There should be a presumption in favour of timber and stone." Occupational carbon emissions Occupational carbon emissions relate to the amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere from the direct use of energy to run the building e.g.
For comparison, the IPCC states that emissions must fall by 45% by 2030 in order to reach the limit set as a goal during the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in 2018 (known as the Paris Agreement).
See also Environmental issues in Malaysia Renewable energy in Malaysia Economy of Malaysia Circular economy == References ==
The programme now operates in the United Kingdom, Australia, Chile, United Arab Emirates as well as New Zealand.
Energy efficient technology New development of LED light bulbs that utilize blue and white light has improved efficiency by over 25% since 2008.
In late October 2012, New Zealand carbon prices dropped to about NZ$1 a tonne for some types of credits.
History Anirudh Sharma, the founder of Graviky Labs, first conceived the idea of AIR-INK during an experiment at MIT, while designing a printer that could print with carbon nanoparticles.
Successful individual reductions are rewarded through lower utility costs and the value of the created personal carbon credits.
Recognising and interacting with these governance systems is considered necessary to fulfill this dimension of justice.
A complete list of measures and details can be found in the official plan (2006-2012): Quebec and Climate Change -- A Challenge for the Future.
As residential consumers move to electricity, gas grid operation and maintenance may become harder to fund.
The aim of Course 50 is to suppress CO2 emissions from blast furnaces and to capture CO2 from blast furnaces.
The functional requirements of the Registry are determined by the European Commission (through the Registry Regulations) and the UNFCCC secretariat (through various COP / MOP decisions).
Related emissions reduction proposals and initiatives Carbon Rationing Action Groups – groups in the UK and US that voluntarily cap their greenhouse gas emissions "Icecaps" – devised by George Monbiot in his book Heat: How to Stop the Planet Burning.
In 2013, the Fluid Interfaces research group, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology demonstrated the process of converting carbon residue into ink for use in an inkjet cartridge.
The pipeline connecting St Fergus to the Goldeneye field is a carbon-steel tube which is 510 millimetres (20 in) in diameter.
CDP's 2022 questionnaire on transition plans includes specific requirements for describing Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
Militaries are using and developing electric vehicles, particularly for their stealthiness, but not tanks.
As of 2018, "Embodied carbon is responsible 11% of global GHG emissions and 28% of global building sector emissions ...
Participants At the launch of The Climate Registry, the following were the participants: US States: Canadian provinces: As of September 24, 2009 all Canadian Provinces and Territories are participating in the greenhouse gas registry.
Independent analysis Independent scholarship discussing REDD+ institutions has described the FCPF (alongside the UN-REDD Programme) as one of the major multilateral platforms created to operationalise REDD+ through readiness support and pilot results-based payment arrangements.
The Forests Now Declaration was a 2007 declaration that advocates using carbon credits to protect tropical forests.
Solar Japan with Cool Earth has been expanding their solar power industry offering subsidies to improving solar powered infrastructure.
Under Joint Implementation, a developed country with relatively high domestic costs of emission reduction would set up a project in another developed country.
Invited countries and their representatives Results At the summit Biden announced that greenhouse gas emissions by the United States would be reduced by 50% - 52% relative to the level of 2005 by 2030.
Employment The renewable energy transition can create jobs through the construction of new power plants and the manufacturing of the equipment that they need, as was seen in the case of Germany and the wind power industry.
Sustainable energy production Renewable energy describes naturally occurring, theoretically inexhaustible sources of energy.
In 2024, a Channel 4 documentary highlighted these concerns alongside claims from Human Rights Watch that it was investigating a Verra carbon reduction project where Indigenous Cambodians lived in fear of homes and farmland being destroyed by armed rangers.
The Registry was the official database for Carbon Financial Instruments owned by Registry Account Holders.
the International Union of Local Authorities provided technical assistance to the municipalities engaged in this planning.
54–55 To increase soil carbon stores, climate-friendly gardeners ensure that their gardens create optimal conditions for various vigorous healthy growth of plants, and other garden organisms above and below the ground, and reduce the impact of any limiting factors.
This type of kiln is also being studied as a potential method to decarbonise shipping through both looping and single use processes.
The first generation Lexus GS began sales in the United States, Europe and selected Asian markets in 1993.
The German term Verkehrswende ("traffic transition" analogous to Energiewende, energetic transition) calls for a shift from combustion powered road transport to bicycles, walking and rail transport and the replacement of remaining road vehicles with electric traction.
While defeat devices were used worldwide, much less remedial action has been taken in other countries.
History South Pole was founded in 2006 by graduates of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) including Patrick Bürgi, Thomas Camerata, Renat Heuberger, Ingo Puhl, and Christoph Sutter, and joined by Christoph Grobbel, Marco Hirsbrunner, and Christian Dannecker as equal partners.
Then-Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, expressed at ICAP's founding ceremony: "This first-of-its-kind partnership will provide more incentives for clean-tech investment and economic growth while not letting polluters off the hook.
This, the report explained, could be solved by optimizing usage of these sources by switching from coal to gas, by preventing methane leakages, and by stopping routine flaring.
According to the report, it is possible to simultaneously ensure economic development and access affordable, sustainable energy for all, while reducing carbon emissions by half the current output.
2007–2011 The GS 460 (URS191) replaced the GS 430 in 2007 for the 2008 model year, featuring a new 4.6-liter 1UR-FE (Middle East) or a 1UR-FSE V8 engine with eight-speed automatic transmission generating 255 kW (342 hp) and 460 N⋅m (339 ft⋅lb) of torque.
Users can select any date between 2000 and 2050, beyond which population growth would no longer generate additional entitlements.
For powertrains, all variants are powered by the K15C 1.5-litre petrol MHEV paired with either a 5-speed manual (standard on GL) or 6-speed automatic (standard on GLX, optional on GL).
Cities that are fully car-free prohibit all use of private cars in the city limits, while cities that are partly car-free have car-free zones but allow some private car use in other areas.
In June 2007, the company raised an additional €150 million to expand into new markets, with Credit Suisse becoming a major investor.
In 2000, the fuel protests in the United Kingdom virtually crippled UK transport and left transport agencies only a day away from bringing the diesel railway to a standstill.
Beginning in 2019, all ICAO member states "with aeroplane operators conducting international flights are required to monitor, report and verify carbon dioxide emissions from these flights every year".
The European Commission support the coalition, for strenghten climate action and improve its international relations.
The seven, Caterpillar, Cummins, Detroit Diesel, Mack Trucks, Navistar International, Renault Trucks, and Volvo Trucks, also agreed to spend more than $1 billion to correct the problem.
The Chennai office handles several value-added operations of the bank that were earlier handled only in its Washington, D.C., office.
ecosecurities is a company specialized in carbon markets and greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation projects worldwide.
These zones are: Beijing, Chongqing, Guangdong, Hubei, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Tianjin, which represent 25% of China's total GDP.
Ultimately, all electricity consumers, not only those who make upgrades, benefit from energy efficiency programs.
C.: whitehouse.gov, retrieved June 25, 2013 Link: President Obama is taking action on climate change External links President Obama's Climate Action Plan.
However, on March 14, 2025, Trudeau's successor as prime minister, Mark Carney, removed the consumer carbon tax implemented via the Act through a prime ministerial directive that was affirmed by an order-in-council signed by the Governor General.
The remaining 10 per cent will go to support particularly affected sectors, including small businesses, schools, and hospitals.
Effect on households The cost of everything made using carbon-based fuels will increase and will be felt by everyone.
Advertising Mitsubishi sponsored the special on ABC about the solar eclipse of August 21, 2017, including photographing the Eclipse Cross along with the eclipse.
French authorities opened an inquiry in March 2016 into Volkswagen over the rigging of emission tests, with prosecutors investigating suspicions of "aggravated deception".
Several countries have closed all of their coal plants including: Belgium closed its last coal plant in 2016.
Experimental results from the same study suggest that this support is robust, as respondents were more likely to favor political programs that included the Global Climate Scheme over those that did not.
The vehicles affected by the recall in the US include the following model years: The EPA revealed on 2 November 2015 that Volkswagen had shipped additional diesel models with defeat devices, including the 2014 VW Touareg and the 2015 Porsche Cayenne.
The tax rate for gasoline in Canadian currency was 0.8 cents per litre, or about $3.50 per tonne of CO2 equivalent.
Otherwise Article 6.2 gives countries a lot of flexibility in how they can create trading agreements.
If allowances are removed through carbon retirement, this increases the scarcity and cost of allowances, contributing to the overall reduction of carbon emissions.
That's why the approach that Copenhagen is using to specify goals for emission reductions and then to allow offsets to accomplish much of that reduction is really a fake.
Greenpeace Aotearoa described the 2008 NZ ETS as "weakened and watered down" and too generous to agriculture and other big polluters.
Hydrogen Hydrogen gas is widely discussed as a fuel with potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
By the end of October 2007 CPI (LG Chem) delivered their finished battery pack prototypes, and A123 delivered theirs by January 2008.
(holding a 53% stake), Tianjin Property Rights Exchange (北方产权交易市场) (holding a 22% stake), and Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) (holding a 25% stake), was unveiled in the Tianjin Binhai New Area.
With 31.66 / 32 points in Adult Occupant Protection (AOP) and 43.00 / 49 points in Child Occupant Protection (COP).
The pilot phase allowed experimentation with sector-specific approaches suited to different regional economic contexts.
Since 1994, researchers, students, and field assistants have studied the environment of Dogu’a Tembien.
In March 2022 National Grid announced a project to introduce green hydrogen into the grid with a 200 m wind turbine powering an electrolyser to produce gas for about 300 homes.
Data Ember’s open data covers annual electricity generation data for over 200 countries and regions, and monthly electricity generation data for 85 countries and regions.
The International Carbon Action Partnership intends to work closely with it, and Brazil's membership should facilitate it.
In March 2021, in the April issue of Modern Railways magazine also reported that work was underway to extend OHL electrification to Market Harborough, but that the SPL Powerlines contractor was working in conjunction with Network Rail to extend wires beyond this to Sheffield and Nottingham.
The money will be put into the Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund, which will be directed to strategic projects or transformative technology aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the province.
In this way countries can lower the costs of complying with their Kyoto targets by investing in projects where reducing emissions may be cheaper and applying the resulting Emission Reduction Units (ERUs) towards their commitment goal.
Forestry company Ernslaw One converted 520,000 NZ units into Assigned amount units and sold them to the Norwegian Government, in a deal brokered by New Zealand carbon broker, Carbon Market Solutions Ltd.
The carboNZero programme and CEMARS programme are the world's first internationally accredited greenhouse gas (GHG) certification schemes under ISO 14065.
The tax was never passed; in February 2021 the government instead set up an emission trading scheme (ETS) where emitters can buy and sell emission credits.
It noted that failure to meet the 1.5 °C target would risk "pushing the world towards catastrophic global warming." It also added that the Paris Agreement makes no mention of oil, gas or coal.
The rationale behind a meta registry is to maintain transparency and prevent double counting and double issuance.
In July 2008, the Gold Standard Version 2.0 was released, including sets of guidelines and manuals on the GS requirements, toolkits, and other supporting documents to be used by project developers and DOEs.
The registration of the domain name "ecocho.co.uk" expired on March 10, 2009, and it was activated again for a short period of time with few variations in graphics from June 2009, until it was finally closed between 2011 and 2012.
Today, Development Business is the primary publication for all major multilateral development banks, U.N.
Awards In July 2025, the company was one of the winners of the WIPO Global Awards in the category of environment for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
However, biological stores (such as forests and kelp beds) may be temporary carbon sinks, as long-term sequestration cannot be guaranteed.
When the Climate Change Response (Moderated Emissions Trading) Act was adopted, Wright said in a radio interview "It's virtually certain our emissions will grow and the burden on the taxpayer will be uncurbed".
Diesel trains also generate soot and particulates from the engines, often clearly visible in the air.
Mechanical The Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross is currently offered as a petrol, diesel, and PHEV plug-in hybrid depending on the region.
Carbon removal projects such as forestry and carbon capture and storage are expected to have a larger share of this market in the future, compared to renewable energy projects.
Programmes There are two certification offerings for carbon footprinting: CEMARS (Certified Emissions Management And Reduction Scheme) certification is for organisations, products or services to make a measurement and reduction claim.
These supported nationally appropriate mitigation actions will be subject to international measurement, reporting and verification in accordance with guidelines adopted by the Conference of the Parties.
The CCPs include a principle on sustainable development benefits and safeguards, and ICVCM governance materials describe an Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities Committee as part of its committee structure.
The Campaign to Electrify Britain's Railway (CEBR) is an internet-based campaign group formed in 2018, whose aim is to convince the government to completely electrify the British Railway network.
The purpose of the Partnership is to address the issues of energy security, air pollution, and climate change (IEA, 2007, p.
The company headquarters is in London, UK, and the company now operates offices in the United States, Spain, France and Turkey.
Prices Prices depend on many factors, such as the vintage year the RECs were generated, location of the facility, whether there is a tight supply/demand situation, whether the REC is used for RPS compliance, even the type of power created.
Previously, plans were in place to convert the power plant to biomass firing, primarily from waste materials.
Some banks, including banks in the Czech Republic and Sweden, do not support euro-denominated debits by default.
The Program on Energy Efficiency in Artisanal Brick Kilns in Latin America to Mitigate Climate Change (EELA) is a program of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) which is implemented by Swiss contact in conjunction with its partners in nine countries in Latin America.
Mootral is a British-Swiss company that is developing a food supplement to reduce methane emissions from ruminant animals, chiefly cows and sheep, but also goats.
They are designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by essentially increasing the price of fossil fuels.
These schemes state that cap-and-trade or cap-and-tax schemes inherently impact the poor and those in rural areas, who have less choice in energy consumption options.
In recent times and in an attempt to highlight the drawbacks of carbon offsetting schemes, the term "emission reduction" or "certified emission reduction" is used to design common carbon offsets that may be certified by organizations such as Gold Standard or Verra.
The investigation even found that the standard may in fact worsen climate change: "Investigation into Verra carbon standard finds most are ‘phantom credits’ and may worsen global heating".
A meat tax is a tax levied on meat and/or other animal products to help cover the health and environmental costs that result from using animals for food.
He took almost three months to write the song "Amma Thale", while all it took to write the song "Maaralente" was 90 minutes.
issued a DVD on 7 June 2005 and, as Cyber Wars, New Line Home Entertainment released the film on region 1 DVD on 11 April 2006.
Premise In 1985, Miami is kept safe under the watchful eye of Kung Fury and his Thundercops, the ultimate police force assembled from across history to defeat the villainous Kung Führer, Adolf Hitler.
Ji-man and Jung-ho see Jun-yeong approach Na-mi's building but do not recognise him and let him leave.
Plot Prabhu Shankar is a happy-go-lucky middle-class man who spends time playing carrom in the streets with his friends Sathish and Kumar among others.
Urumees forgives them and is thankful for returning his daughter, and offers them the three lakh rupees as a reward, telling them that they do not have to stay at the police station for more than an hour.
Pictures releasing the film on May 25, 2012 under its distribution deal with Alcon; FilmNation Entertainment sold rights to other international territories.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 60% based on 15 reviews.
Release Innocent Prey was not released until 9 August 1991 when it was given a VHS release in the United States by Intermedia Video.
Nada and Frank are cornered in an alley, but Frank activates an alien wristwatch, opening a portal to the alien's spaceport on Earth under Cable 54, an alien-run news network.
The film recounts his efforts at the White Sands Proving Ground in New Mexico and at the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama developing missiles for the U.S.
After seeing Reed being experimented on, Mizuki assaults Balcus and takes the Control Metal, threatening to throw it into a disposal chamber.
The responsibility of censorship proves bearable for Lyra, whom her co-workers, as well as her boss Simon, observe as a cold person unfazed by the disturbing imagery she sees on a daily basis.
Eric Bana stars as Bruce Banner and Hulk, alongside Jennifer Connelly, Sam Elliott, Josh Lucas, and Nick Nolte.
Charles Champlin of the Los Angeles Times called it "the kind of conspiratorial caper you like for its continual surprises or hate for its escalating confusions ...
After delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Tenet was released in the United Kingdom on August 26, 2020, and in the United States on September 3, 2020.
The Landlord confronts Ying-ru, who says that she cannot accept a life without change or possibility.
In the middle of their celebration, they hear chanting outside the RV and find themselves surrounded by cult members wearing black robes with hoods, including Sheriff Taylor and the couple with whom they had dinner.
The then Federal Minister of the Interior, Friedrich Zimmermann, is also included with a brief statement.
With that much money at stake, all three men (as well as J-Ron, their arrogant teammate from the high school football team, and the fourth person in on the bet) are eager to find a sexy woman with an evening to spare.
Yim Si-wan as Oh Jun-yeong/Woo Jun-yeong A man approaches Nami after accidentally picking up her smartphone.
Plot Lynch (Gary Oldman), an emotionless food connoisseur, stops a thief who stole a phone from Mimi (Elena Anaya) in a railway station.
Entertainment Tonight also visited the set during the making of the film, airing a segment in August 1989.
The weekend gross of this film in its first eleven weeks was as follows: Overseas, the film grossed ₩781,495,500 (US$713,790) in South Korea, and $2,169,164 in Spain, Hong Kong, and Thailand.
Future Shock is a 1972 American short documentary film directed by Alex Grasshoff and narrated by Orson Welles.
They suffer the theft of the only car they have, and their new car is prone to going completely out of his control...The film follows Franco and Ciccio, two bumbling driving instructors who somehow manage to teach people how to drive and get their license (Patente B) despite their incompetence.
(But who gave you your license?) is a 1970 Italian comedy film directed by Nando Cicero starring the comic duo Franco and Ciccio.
The website's consensus reads: "Do not enter." David Ehrlich of IndieWire gave the film a "D−" and wrote: "Hades might boast some decent star power, but there isn't a celebrity in the world who could save this bargain bin nonsense from feeling like a bootlegged ripoff of its own franchise.
The film was loosely inspired by an experience Smosh cast member Olivia Sui had in 2022, when she anonymously received a series of Shrek memes AirDropped to her phone while on a date with her boyfriend Sam Lerner.
"Bukalah Matamu" is the first single released from the official soundtrack, released on YouTube and all streaming platforms on 20 September 2019.
Christoph Waltz replaced Thornton in the lead role, and the late Zanuck's son Dean replaced him as producer.
Ross and Rick are both sentenced to prison, where Ross passes Rick by chance one day and stares after him in disbelief.
Oppenheimer became both the highest-grossing and longest Best Picture winning film since 2003's The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.
Cate Blanchett portrays a senior CIA agent who tries to track down and eliminate the girl and her father.
The film was eventually released on December 8, 2023, and besides being digitally remastered, was shorter than the original theatrical cut by around 50 minutes.
The Deserter's Wife (French: La femme du déserteur) is a 1991 French-Israeli co-production dramatic independent underground art film directed by Michal Bat-Adam.
"Collapsing the Interior/Exterior Distinction: Surveillance, Spectacle, and Suspense in Popular Cinema".
It also details exhibits by many people, including George Westinghouse, Nikola Tesla and Thomas Edison.
Bombshell: The Hedy Lamarr Story (referred to onscreen as simply Bombshell) is a 2017 American biographical documentary film directed, written and co-edited by Alexandra Dean, about the life of actress and inventor Hedy Lamarr.
Replying to the ban demands, John Abraham said while he respects the opinions of everyone, no one is above the Censor board and creativity should not be held at gun point.
After modifying the Jaguar C-X75 for the film, Williams F1 carried the 007 logo on their cars at the 2015 Mexican Grand Prix, with the team playing host to the cast and crew ahead of the Mexican premiere of the film.
Françoise's "exercise robot", Greg, arrives outside and Nestor lets him in without allowing the humans out.
The two continue to communicate across space using the e-mail facilities on their mobile telephones.
The film, which today is in the public domain and freely available for viewing at various online sources, was restored by the Academy Film Archive in 2018.
Based on the successful 1956 Broadway production of the same name by Betty Comden, Adolph Green and Jule Styne, the film focuses on Ella Peterson, based on the life of Mary Printz, who works in the basement office of a telephone answering service.
Werker), He Walked by Night, when the police are inspecting the contents of a murder suspect's trunk.
Plot Michi Kudo, newly moved to Tokyo, works at a plant shop with Junko Sasano, Toshio Yabe, and Taguchi, who has been missing for several days while working on a computer disk for the shop's sales.
Jaydeep had married Neha for her wealth, and concocted the murder plan to frame Neha and gain unfettered access to her wealth.
However, the film received only limited release in North America (with most of its fanbase created via the circulation of bootleg DVDs imported from Asia) until Miramax released it on DVD in late 2003.
Plot After writing a series of articles about a pedophilia scandal, the journalist Ji-won often receives threatening calls on her cell phone.
which the extra weight proves to be just enough to cause it to collapse, along with the fox, who falls to his death.
Produced, written, and directed by Wade Williams and released by his distribution company, Englewood Entertainment, it was released on VHS and in 1998 on DVD.
Background Actress Fanny Ardant and cinematographer Fabio Conversi got to know each other while filming Margarethe von Trotta's Love and Fear during 1988.
Apart from Antony, the film marks the return of actor Kannan of Bharathiraja's Kadhal Oviyam (1982) in an important role and Trupthi Ravindra in her debut.
Sean and Han's crew restore a 1967 Ford Mustang Fastback that Sean's father recovered and tune it to drift specifications, making use of the engine and other components from the wrecked S15.
Einstein tells the humans that Monique recorded a final message for them, asking that they remain human.
She moves into Gwen's home, a spacious Victorian property owned by the wealthy Phillip, who resides in a nearby guesthouse.
It is the direct sequel to Underworld: Evolution (2006) and the fourth installment in the Underworld film series.
In the Netflix series The Umbrella Academy, season 1 episode 3, a trunk shot is seen when the two hitmen open the car to reveal Klaus in the trunk.
As he lavishes a key witness against a lot of money and is hounded by a hitman (called the Cleaner), he not only sucks the FBI's anger, but also the crime syndicate Icarus, who also turns the Cleaner on his best friend, the FBI agent Sonny begin.
The Chase is a 1994 American action comedy film written and directed by Adam Rifkin and starring Charlie Sheen and Kristy Swanson.
Jackal Jayamalini Silk Smitha Telephone Satyanarayana Dham Prakashi Rao Babu Rao Jagga Rao Babu Music Music: K.
Regarding the premise of dinosaurs against the military, Black wrote that the filmmakers "somehow managed to make it boring".
However, before they can harm him further, Harlock enters the saloon and saves Tetsuro by overpowering the thug and forcing him to drink milk, which kills him by rusting him from the inside.
While Erik tries to find out why he has been brought back to life in the first place, the financial institute comptroller (Antti Aro) complains to Laura about the expenses caused by Erik and at the same time asks her the same question.
They purchase a shotgun and head towards Amarillo while being spied on by a steadily increasing number of cultists who seem to be networked throughout numerous small Texas towns.
External links The Big Bounce is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive The Big Bounce at IMDb
At the repair shop, a masked Jun-yeong fixes Na-mi's broken phone screen and gets the password from her in order to install spyware on her phone and clone it.
You can take our word for it: 'Bells Are Ringing' owes more to Miss Holliday than to its authors, its director (Vincent Minnelli), or even to Alexander Graham Bell." Awards and nominations Comden and Green won the Writers Guild of America award for Best American Musical.
After wrapping up the shoot on 22 November, the team headed to Ahmedabad and Surat for the fourth schedule.
At the 47th César Awards, it was nominated for four awards, including Best Director for Ducournau and Most Promising Actress for Rousselle.
As of February 2016, the film has grossed in Japan ($32.7 million), Hong Kong ($799,043), Italy ($1,295,875), South Korea ($696,169), Taiwan ($108,560), United Arab Emirates ($69,349), Vietnam ($350,706).
He found writing the script a challenge, as he had to create the film's plot as well as give specific reasons for each window that opened and why the point of view would shift between the characters.
He's the toughest guy I've met." Carpenter was impressed with Keith David's performance in The Thing and needed someone "who wouldn't be a traditional sidekick but could hold his own." To this end, Carpenter wrote the role of Frank specifically for David.
The filmmakers visit a "rehab camp" for young people with technology addiction outside Seattle and also meet with Danny Bowman, Great Britain's first diagnosed "selfie addict".
As the car approaches it is seen to contain a male driver and three high-spirited female passengers waving handkerchiefs towards the camera.
Smith tortures Litvenko under the supervision of Syndicate director Antoine Le Clerq, but Litvenko refuses to reopen the Agent program.
Finally the workers gain control over the robots with their own remote control device, which they had covertly assembled before, making necessary measurements on the robot assembling factory and researching the Ripple's prototype robot "Micron", whom he left damaged at his home.
The score was composed to follow Max Renn's descent into video hallucinations, starting out with dramatic orchestral music that increasingly incorporates, and eventually emphasizes, electronic instrumentation.
Blackhat was a box-office bomb, opening at number 11 and earning only $1.7 million on its opening day.
Accolades Berry earned a Blockbuster Entertainment Award for Favorite Actress – Adventure/Drama for her performance in the film in 1997.
Stephen Falken was inspired by and named after Stephen Hawking; John Lennon was interested in playing the role, but was murdered in New York while the script was in development.
Awkwafina as Ming Fleetfoot: A new Jumanji player character and Spencer's new avatar, who later becomes Eddie's avatar.
Killian, who experiences hallucinations that Ouelet dismisses as glitches, is troubled as she doesn't clearly remember her past.
Al tells her how Haskell died, but she blackmails him by threatening to turn him over to the police.
They tell Carly that she bears a striking resemblance to Naomi Singer, the previous tenant of her apartment who fell to her death from her balcony.
Jürgen is the son of a German officer who has been killed in action, and hopes to live up to his father's example.
They've been a huge inspiration for Strange World." The miracle plant Pando is named after a forest in Utah in America.
They are confronted by Smith, who is revealed to have surgically implanted subdermal titanium body armor, making him impervious to gunshots.
On the day that two of Chevalier's snuff films are to be played in court, the public gallery is forced to leave.
Complicating matters further, a parallel comedy unfolds on the same route when small-time thief Nelluru Peddareddy a.k.a.
Allegations about Robert Evans's behavior In her 2021 memoir The Beauty of Living Twice, Stone stated—without naming names—that a producer had once told her to sleep with a costar in a film.
Enraged with this knowledge, Shivam sends men to kill Siddharth, whom Rao shields, who gets caught in the crossfire and injured in the process.
Meanwhile, Jane continues her romance with Tom, and after a date, invites him into her home, where they have sex.
In the middle of the night, Paul finds Samantha staring at the window, looking at her father, and he deactivates her.
The robots and backgrounds were drawn based on computer-generated 3D models, while the dogs and wolves were drawn by hand.
Upon his release, Croker stays at the Royal Lancaster Hotel in Bayswater, London, where he celebrates with what is implied to be an orgy; his room became a favourite haunt of rock stars after the release of the film.
These were abandoned in the film crew's storage unit in Turin when filming concluded and their subsequent history is unknown.
Amy Nicholson of LA Weekly gave the film a B+, saying "Bird has made a film that every child should see.
After a night filled with nightmares, Sandra begins to wander around the desert near the Monolith car.
Kung Fury 2 is an unfinished martial arts comedy film directed by David Sandberg, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Tyler Burton Smith.
Calling it a "supposed family comedy...woefully devoid of laughs," Marsh concluded it fell just short of "asking audiences point blank to subscribe to HBO Max", and was ultimately "a vacuous and cynical experience that shoots far wide of the mark".
After a while of waiting, Brandon and Karina leave to retrieve keys for Brandon's car, while Marcus and Kareem search for Shawn.
Goddard, Wyatt, Bolton, and Meachum are arrested by Gamble, while Adam is released for contributing to the FBI's investigation.
In terms of total earnings, its largest markets are China ($18.7 million), France ($15.1 million), followed by Brazil ($6.9 million), the U.K.
Marcus and Anna find Jody and Cal, however they are soon attacked by the killer who murders Anna, while the others flee into Brandon and Karina's room.
The film was then released in Belgium on 9 August 2017 by Belga Films and in France on 16 August 2017 by Océan Films.
An energy source traveling through space strikes Mir, killing the cosmonauts and beaming itself down to Volkov.
The Pod Generation is a 2023 science fiction romantic comedy film written and directed by Sophie Barthes.
Plot Siddharth is a hacker who leads a delightful life, which includes his father, Rao, & his mother.
Hodges that these dinosaurs have been genetically rebuilt and are now the last three "carnosaurs" still in existence.
headquarters, allowing Cero to control its electronics, forcing the pillar heads to launch a protocol to evacuate to a nearby island.
At school, Oliver is bullied by his classmates due to his condition, leading to loneliness and a desire for friendship.
There is a deadly side of the Rainmaker technology - its byproduct is a toxic and radioactive aerosol which gathers in the atmosphere and can generate toxic rain which kills every living thing.
The plot focuses on the entanglement between various corporations vying for the financial control of an interactive 3-D hentai company, resulting in a power struggle that culminates in violence and espionage.
The soundtrack album was released on 11 July 2010 in a function held at HITEX convention hall, Madhapur, Hyderabad.
It is not the masterpiece its defenders claim, nor is it the completely self-indulgent folly described by its critics.
Plot Fateh Singh, an ex-special ops officer, lives a peaceful life as a dairy farming supervisor in Punjab until a village girl, Nimrit Kaur, falls prey to a cybercrime syndicate headed by Raza and Satya Prakash.
The duck, however, proves to be too much for the fox to handle, as he is constantly outsmarted and all his plans to capture him backfire at every turn.
Sator's estranged wife Kat Barton is an art appraiser who authenticated a Goya forged by her friend Arepo.
Bhairavudu goes on live television with a mask covering his face and reveals he has killed 23 people and hidden their corpses in 23 pillars of a metro bridge, and threatens the citizens to leave his brother unscathed.
Although he warns Hanna that a confrontation with Marissa will be fatal for either her or Marissa, he leaves the final decision to her and she activates the beacon.
James Mottram of The South China Morning Post wrote: "sweet, heart-warming and frighteningly prescient, Ron's Gone Wrong is one of the best animated films in recent memory".
David Rooney of Variety said Simpson's direction was "executed in the style of early David Fincher" and said Evans' performance was "gripping".
When C-Systems' test reactor malfunctions, Paul, the scientists and the prisoners all depart, allowing Eddie to furtively "fix" the system that night.
Norberg tells Ted that he plans to experiment on an ape’s head, keeping it alive, with a clear plastic dome over its cranium so that he can observe its brain function, then transfer what he learns to humans.
This is the third among Rahman's only three straight Telugu films that are not remakes or bilinguals.
Critical response Lav Diaz, writing for the Manila Standard, gave Bobo Cop a mildly positive review.
The film stars Siddharth, Lakshmi Menon and Bobby Simha, with Karunakaran and Aadukalam Naren in pivotal roles.
In custody, Niranjan manages to sell the drive containing the secret information for ₹25 crore (US$3.0 million) to Reddy's secretary.
As the members of the summit are taken hostage, Sutton and Secret Service Agent Manny Ruiz slip away with UK Prime Minister Oliver Everett, head of the International Monetary Fund Elena Romano, and First Lady of South Korea Han Minh-Seo, while Derek rescues his children and evades capture.
Release The Hearse opened in Kansas City, Missouri on March 21, 1980, followed by a release in Kennewick, Washington on March 26, 1980.
Justice and his brothers Reggie and Gaylord were all portrayed by Jackie Gleason; Reggie was a Canadian version of Reginald Van Gleason III, a popular character from Gleason's television show.
At the 2021 Toronto International Film Festival, the film won the People's Choice Award for Midnight Madness.
Looking for answers, Rachel returns to Moesko Island, finding evidence of Samara's biological mother Evelyn, who tried to drown her as an infant.
The caller offers to "make him stop" and in Stuart's confusion, he inadvertently asks for this; the caller shoots Leon dead.
They meet tour guide Uri and are joined by a backpacking couple, Norwegian Zoe and Australian Michael.
While they admitted the film felt like an advertisement for HBO Max, they praised the creative use of the characters and the acting, though they took issue with outdated references.
Globetrotting Youngster) is a 1973 Indian Tamil-language science fiction film directed and co-produced by M.
Rekonek (sometimes stylized as ReKonek) is a 2025 Philippine family drama film directed by Jade Castro under the production of Reality MM Studios and The Th3rd Floor Studios.
Little do they know that their landlord, a creepy and voyeuristic man named Gerald, has installed 13 hidden cameras throughout the house, which he uses to watch their every move.
Cast Production Development “The main idea of the movie is a confrontation between magic and the technical progress.
Jeevi of Idlebrain.com gave the film a rating of 2.75/5 and said that "The movie looks very artificial except a few scenes where the love of Naresh towards his mother is projected".
Cast Production During a European tour promoting City Lights, Chaplin got the inspiration for Modern Times from both the lamentable conditions of the continent through the Great Depression, along with a conversation with Mahatma Gandhi in which they discussed modern technology.
In the film, a man hires contract killers and tasks them with killing his brother-in-law, who he resents.
Soundtrack and score The soundtrack for the film features various tracks by Combichrist, Encephalon and Tribal Machine, while the score was composed by Scott Glasgow with additional music by Ronan Harris of VNV Nation.
The police fire upon Stuart, while a SWAT team breaks into the room that the caller was tracked to, only to find a rifle and a man's corpse.
A missed opportunity." Arjun Menon of The Indian Express gave 2/5 stars and wrote "Shakthi Thirumagan is not a graceful, patient takedown of power politics because it doesn't want to risk alienating audiences with half informed build ups and suggestive storytelling.
Spielberg first asked Sydney Pollack to direct, who got Kurt Luedtke to draft the first version of the adaptation but then bowed out; Ronald Bass was brought in by Kathleen Kennedy and Spielberg to work on the script, but they were unsatisfied with the results.
The sole survivor of a shipwreck is placed with the other patients, but he soon demonstrates abilities as a healer and starts being viewed as a miracle worker.
Charles Bramesco wrote in Vulture, "Their documentary forms a sharp image of the thornier side to investigative journalism".
Lisberger and Kushner subsequently presented their storyboards and computer animation samples to major studios—including Warner Bros., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, and Columbia Pictures—all of which declined to finance the project.
The soundtrack of the film, titled Summer Wars Original Soundtrack (「サマーウォーズ」 オリジナル・サウンドトラック, Samā Wōzu Orijinaru Saundotorakku), was released by VAP on July 9, 2009.
It then delves into Ross's background, portraying him as a well-educated aspiring entrepreneur living in Austin, Texas.
smuggling a toxin into the country would probably be easier and just as effective as hijacking) that nonetheless managed to be entertaining.
Haley is evacuated by helicopter beyond the canyon, and knowing that Nic has mastered the use of his legs, Damon attempts to discourage Nic, saying "You can't reach her".
He uses the hostages' voices and likenesses to create deepfake videos supporting his claims, leaking the doctored footage to the press, and the surge in crypto investment sends the value of his own wallet soaring.
The illusory drop had been matte-painted, and Chaplin was never in actual danger while filming this scene — in reality, he skated on a plain floor, with a ledge for him to discern when to stop.
In an interview with The Hindu, Karthik said that Jigarthanda was intended to be his directorial debut and that he incorporated some of his experiences in the film during his life at Madurai.
Megat Zahrin Megat Hisham as Trez, a former Numeros agent wielding cybernetic gauntlets who now works alongside Rizwan.
In March 2023, Roadside Attractions and Vertical Entertainment acquired North America rights and released the film in limited cinemas on 11 August 2023.
Through a series of manipulations, Ella introduces the playwright to the wishful actor and composer, who now have a chance to advance their career aspirations by contributing to The Midas Touch.
Fassbender, Schwarzenegger, and Hasselhoff were cast by February 2018, and principal photography took place from July to September 2019.
Cast Michele Valley as Woman Takis Spiridakis as Guard Liana Hatzi as Drunkard Nikos Hatzis as Tramp V.
Cast Production The film was shot in the summer of 1983 in Sydney, Australia and Dallas, Texas, under the title of Voyeur.
The film is a remake of the 2000 Hindi film Hera Pheri by Priyadarshan which itself was based on Siddique–Lal's 1989 Malayalam film Ramji Rao Speaking.
Plot In the summer of 2014, Sophie Kessler, a waitress and single mother, who lives with her diabetic mother Kristin and her son Garret in Iowa, discovers that her son is vomiting in his sleep.
In the safe house, Tony and Patty undergo a spy training program while Terrence and Nora are captured by Rey.
According to the director Žiga Virc, the intention of the film was to "tell the symbolic story of the rise and fall of Yugoslavia", as well inviting the viewer to decide what is real and what fiction.
The two began directing side by side before splitting up into separate units with Wang responsible for handling the majority of the film’s action scenes.
The American and Soviet governments develop a three-year plan to replace all detonation triggers with undetectable fakes.
Cero confronts Rizwan's group, revealing that he begun detonating Cyberaya's central reactor, which would cause a chain explosion with the nearby underwater Azurium reserves, threatening the city unbeknownst to Cyberjaya's governors who would be hiding in the island bunker.
Ending According to a "Making Of" documentary, producer Deeley was unsatisfied with the four written endings and conceived the current ending as a literal cliffhanger appropriate to an action film which left an opportunity for a sequel.
The dealership manager (played by Daniel Benzali) is a bald-headed bully who has no qualms about screwing the customer.
Meba attacks Aron and Nobita tries to help, but was accidentally teleported inside the pirates's ship due to the belt on Meba's waist fell against him, Shizuka then fights and defeats Meba, while Gian also defeats Ogon.
The first single titled "Jai Ganesha" was released on 18 September 2023 on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi.
Long presumed a lost film, the Library of Congress acquired a 35mm nitrate print in 2025, restored for public release in February 2026.
Cast Production Two characters from the novel on which the film was based were merged for the film: "Ingrid Macht" and "Agnes Everleigh" became "Ingrid Everleigh".
Pictures, Spielberg, and Eastwood all preferred their draft with LaGravenese, Beresford dropped out and Eastwood asked to direct the film and co-produce it with his production company Malpaso Productions to have more control over the movie and make the project move forward.
Hathaway manipulates the update system on Jessup's phone GPS that tracks his location, allowing him to follow his own lead and arrange a meeting with the hacker's partner at a restaurant.
He discovered Bitcoin in 2011, and from there he has been fascinated by anything that has to do with it.
In the process, Jake discovers the illicit download and Helen punishes Ozzie, making him take Melissa to her private school Shady Glen.
Yoshihiro Hagiwara produced the DVD release, and the voice actors were Chihiro Suzuki and Sumi Mutoh.
After another wild encounter, Searcher and Jaeger finally have a heart-to-heart talk and realize that they do respect each other's goals in life.
Spielberg characterized the story as "50% character and 50% very complicated storytelling with layers and layers of murder mystery and plot".
Jones admits that it does not matter if ED-209 works, because they have contracts to provide spare parts for years.
Cognizant that he will be arrested for his involvement once Ross is captured, Rick extorts Ross for hundreds of thousands of dollars by posing as both a hacker and hitman offering to dispose of said hacker, intent on providing for his family while he is in prison.
Release Distribution rights to the film were acquired by Zeitgeist Films and Kino Lorber in August 2017.
Catherine Deneuve and Isabella Rossellini did screen tests to play Francesca, but despite Spielberg's initial reluctance, Eastwood had advocated Meryl Streep for the role from the beginning.
It was released theatrically on December 25, 2022 as an entry to the 2022 Metro Manila Film Festival.
The title was revealed to be Spy Kids: Armageddon, which was the original name for the previous film installment, Spy Kids: All the Time in the World (2011).
Soundtrack The music score is composed by the lead composer, Azri Yunus, assisted by the assistant composer, Hakim Kamal.
The Leeds International Film Festival showed the film on November 20, 2009, and the English dubbed version of the film premiered at the New York International Children's Film Festival on November 20, 2010.
She finds herself falling for him, only to discover that he is none other than Sandeep Anand himself.
In June 1989, Dominique Vignet, together with the Swiss millionaire Francis von Buren, agreed to invest 30 million francs based on the rushes filmed the previous year.
Beginning of the End is generally known for its "atrocious" special effects, "and yet," writes reviewer Bill Warren, "there is something almost compellingly watchable about this goofy little movie".
The crew returned to the river less than a week later to film scenes solely set on Westminster Bridge.
However, in theatres in the U.S., it was shown in black-and-white, allegedly to 'save money duplicating prints'.
Risking his loyalty to MATA, Ejen Ali will now embarks his thrilling chase to unravel those mysterious links.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 41% of 76 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 5.6/10.
The complaints prompted several rounds of allegation, apology, rebuttal, and edits to the podcast, as well as commentary in various sources such as the public radio newspaper Current.
Guest appearances The show has regularly interviewed and has guest appearances of business executives, founders, and celebrities.
The hosts and guests play the game ahead of the episode, then talk about the experience, the community, and the context surrounding the game.
Halvorson founded Brain Traffic, a content strategy consultancy, in 2001, which pivoted to content strategy as a service in 2007.
Recognition and awards In 2012, iTunes Australia named Download This Show the best new podcast, and it has won Best Audio Program at the Australian IT Journalism Awards ("The Lizzies") many times.
Episodes Series 1 (2016–2017) Each of the nine-minute long programmes introduces the story of a product or invention that revolutionised the modern world.
He has also worked on the foundations of quantum mechanics, especially the many-worlds interpretation, including a derivation of the Born rule for probabilities.
The process involves recordings made by each presenter on their local machine in FLAC format using the software Audio Recorder.
He founded The Climate Corporation and served as its chief executive, overseeing its $1.1 billion sale to Monsanto in 2013, the first unicorn transaction in the emerging agricultural technology sector.
The show attempts to approach broad, difficult topics such as "time" and "morality" in an accessible and light-hearted manner and with a distinctive audio production style.
Leo participated in the chat during commercial breaks and often referred to the chat to give him additional information to assist with some of the callers' questions.
Since January 2009, the Tekzilla set has occupied the space previously used by Internet Superstar, a previous Revision3 show.
The first project by the new company was a documentary podcast ZigZag, which documented the early days of the company itself.
Ezarik was also hired to appear in three commercials for a national TV ad campaign for Mozy, an award-winning online backup and recovery system.
He turned down an invitation to speak at a conference sponsored by the John Templeton Foundation, because he did not want to appear to be supporting a reconciliation between science and religion.
Filmography Film Television Web Awards and nominations See also JenniCam Brooke Brodack Sousveillance List of YouTubers Bibliography Ezarik, Justine; Hargrave, C.
As a developer, he is best known for being chief technology officer for Tumblr and creating Instapaper and Overcast.
Hosts and correspondents Travis View has written extensively for the Washington Post on the subject of QAnon.
Each episode followed Josh and Chuck inside and outside the recording booth, combining the factual information of their podcast with humorous, fictional story lines that align with each podcast topic.
Background In 2014, Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas had a Twitter exchanged that led to some collaborations.
Carroll at IMDb Dark Matter, Dark Energy: The Dark Side of the Universe Archived April 30, 2021, at the Wayback Machine, lectures at The Teaching Company.
Kristina Halvorson (born July 25, 1971) is an American writer, entrepreneur, speaker, podcaster, and expert on the subject of content strategy.
Another recurring topic investigated on Search Engine is the Internet Bill of Rights, a set of universal standards concerning online liberties drafted and spearheaded by the Internet Governance Forum.
Linux Outlaws was a Linux news and technology podcast produced by Sixgun Productions and hosted by Fabian Scherschel and Dan Lynch.
That placed it second behind The Kim Komando Show (with 2.25 million weekly listeners) in the syndicated tech radio field.
Books Clark and Bryant also present two longer and more in-depth audio programs featuring interviews and portions recorded on location available for purchase as audiobooks, which are entitled The Super Stuffed Guide to the Economy and The Super Stuffed Guide to Happiness.
Episodes of Twenty Thousand Hertz have also been featured on the Radiotopia productions 99% Invisible and The Allusionist.
That same year, she initiated the first Content Strategy Consortium and was the keynote speaker at first Content Strategy Forum in Paris.
Before she began hosting Note to Self, Zomorodi was a television reporter for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
Between Season 1 and Season 2, the show's team, led by NPR's VP of Programming Eric Nuzum, Deron Triff and Series Producer Jeff Rogers, overhauled the show.
The theme tune used for each episode is Crazy Words, Crazy Tune by the Savoy Havana band, recorded in 1927 and out of copyright.
However, due to ongoing costs as a result of TWiT.tv's constant expansion, a roadmap for the introduction of podcast and web-based advertising was announced during episode 45 of This WEEK in TECH.
She also did work in robotics engineering at IBM, Morton Thiokol, United Technologies/Pratt & Whitney, Lockheed-Martin, Rolls-Royce, and the US Navy.
It is primarily broadcast on YouTube, X, and Substack, with full episodes available on Apple Podcasts and Spotify.
Media coverage and awards LugRadio received coverage in Linux Format magazine, Linux User and Developer magazine and Linux Magazine as well as online coverage by sites such as Slashdot.
Brownlee was a finalist for Best Podcaster at the 12th Shorty Awards in 2020 for his work on the show.
The podcast won "Tech Podcast of the Year" as well as "Podcast of the Year" at the 2019 Adweek Podcast Awards.
In early 2008, it was reported by a number of Search Engine listeners in China that the CBC had been rendered unavailable.
The show is aimed mainly at beginner digital photographers, though the content is suitable for all levels of photographer.
He was followed by Patrick Norton in August 2007, who worked at Ziff Davis as 'head of podcasts' and host of the IPTV show DL.TV.
In September 2011, Mann launched Roderick on the Line, a weekly conversation with musician/writer John Roderick.
Carroll teamed up with Steven Novella, a neurologist by profession known for his skepticism, and the two argued against the motion.
The members of QAA have attended various QAnon live events, including the first ever QAnon conference, as well as events relating to other subjects of their journalism.
In May 2020, host Dallas Taylor delivered a TED Talk, "What silence can teach you about sound." The talk discussed John Cage's composition 4'33", a topic which had previously been explored in an episode of Twenty Thousand Hertz.
It was announced on July 10, 2007, that Jim Louderback would become the new CEO of the Revision3 Corporation.
Many current interviews are recorded directly from industry and community events such as the KubeCon series, the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage, and the Free and Open Source Software Conference (FrOSCon), reflecting the project's ongoing focus on contemporary open-source and cloud-native technologies.
Nilay Patel () is an American editor and blogger who has been editor-in-chief of technology news website The Verge since 2014.
His work with Linux Journal, and as an advocate of free software and open-source, earned him a Google-O'Reilly Open Source Award for Best Communicator in 2005.
The presenters usually speak in a family-friendly manner about their own work in the past week, discuss community news and upcoming events, talk about command-line tools and respond to listeners' feedback.
They also talk about her transition from print journalism to video, and her famous Flickr photos of food.
The office has a large mural depicting the formation of an idea, a research library, and giant question mark-shaped conference table.
This Week in Tech–casually referred to as TWiT, and briefly known as Revenge of the Screen Savers–is the weekly flagship podcast and namesake of the TWiT.tv network.
She also participated in the fourth season of the series, titled Escape the Night: All-Stars, as the Adventurer.
Security Now was the recipient of the 2007 People's Choice Podcast Awards in the Technology category.
Based on his popular podcasts, Benjamin has been called "the king of Apple talk radio" by Philip Elmer-DeWitt of Fortune magazine and CNN.
Reception and awards Radiolab has been widely acclaimed among listeners and critics alike for its imaginative format and original use of sound design.
The founders of Substack, a newsletter platform launched in 2018, called Thompson a major inspiration for their project.
Before joining Gimlet, Vogt and Goldman hosted a technology and culture podcast called TLDR for WNYC.
The name was inspired by the audience communicating to Zomorodi that they listen to the show because they are interested in the "purposeful use of technology." Zomorodi released a book entitled "Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self" with St.
The podcast offers a subscription called The Lab with which listeners can directly support the production.
She left Marketplace in 2021 to join Launch, a venture capital firm, where she was a podcaster and investor.
He has produced a number of documentaries - some of which have aired on various programs on the CBC.
Awards and recognition Zomorodi has won numerous journalism awards including the New York Press Club Award for Journalism.
Most releases of the show were licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No-Derivatives licence, but shows released after December 2007 are under the Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported licence.
Overview The show's title refers to highest frequency that can be perceived within the human hearing range (without hearing loss).
On May 3, 2012, Discovery Communications announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire Revision3.
Zeis was the editorial director of High Yield content at Future until September 2024, working with brands such as Tom's Guide and TechRadar.
QAnon Anonymous has collaborated with a number of other podcasts, including Knowledge Fight, Boontavista and the Conspirituality Podcast.
The nomination cited its unusual social media presence, including an event where the hosts accepted phone calls from listeners for 48 hours straight.
He has also published a YouTube video series entitled "The Biggest Ideas in the Universe" which provides physics instruction at a popular-science level but with equations and a mathematical basis, rather than mere analogy.
Ezarik was known for her "300-page iPhone bill" which followed the first month of service after the introduction of the first iPhone in 2007.
In the same New York Times interview, Abumrad said, "You're trying to capture the rhythms and the movements, the messiness of the actual experience....
Meanwhile, Current Geek Weekly is a weekly discussion of geek culture stories and the companion podcast to the Current Geek podcasts still produced by Frogpants Studios.
LugRadio was a British podcast on the topic of Linux and events in the free and open source software communities, as well as coverage of technology, digital rights and politics.
After Red Herring folded, he continued to review cutting edge technology, both online and in print, for a Business 2.0 column called What’s Next.
January 10, 2008: On G4TV's Best of CES 2008, Morris joined the G4 crew to talk about some of the best gadgets seen at CES this year.
Discussions revolve around nuclear power as an alternative and potentially carbon-negative energy source.
April 25, 2010: On This Week in Tech (TWiT) episode 245 as a guest with Becky Worley, and Shira Lazar.
Distribution was handed over to Sony Music in April 2021, but the deal with Sony was very short lived.
Since then, More Perfect has not aired any more episodes, although reruns are still occasionally posted in the Radiolab feed.
The Internet and Identity In January 2008, Search Engine began reporting on the controversy between the Internet group "Anonymous" and the Church of Scientology.
After five seasons, on 30 June 2008, LugRadio announced that they would end the show at their convention, LugRadio Live UK 2008.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
In 2016, Zeldman's business association with Happy Cog ended, and he launched an independent design consultancy called Studio Zeldman.
Personal life Mann started treatment for attention deficit disorder in 2008, something which he says helped his focus.
Kim started publishing speculative fiction in 2021 and won the Shirley Jackson Award for You'll Understand When You're a Mom Someday, her second published story.
Personal life Friedberg co-hosts the All-In business and investment podcast with Chamath Palihapitiya, David O.
LugRadio Live LugRadio Live was an annual event organised by the LugRadio team and held in Wolverhampton.
Apple SVPs Eddy Cue and Craig Federighi appeared as guests on a recorded episode published February 12, 2016.
Program History The program aired on Thursdays at 11:30 a.m.(12:00 NT), and was repeated on Tuesdays at 3:30 p.m.(4:00 NT, select markets) on stations which did not air extended CBC Radio One local programs.
Search Engine's theme song is called "Ethiopia Hagere." It was written and performed in a collaborative effort between Ethiopian saxophonist Getatchew Mekurya and punk band The Ex.
Episode 27 ("Chartbreakers") was highlighted for its investigation into the manipulation of the Apple Podcasts Top Charts through a vast industry termed as "dark podcast marketing".
It airs on the National Public Radio "NPR Now" channel at SiriusXM 122, public radio stations both nationally and internationally, and the Internet in a number of podcast syndication outlets podcast.
Waveform: The MKBHD Podcast (also referred to as Waveform or WVFRM) is a technology podcast hosted by American YouTuber Marques Brownlee, alongside Andrew Manganelli and David Imel.
In 2009 they challenged Stephen Colbert to see whose team could raise $100,000 first and they "beat the pants off of" him, reaching that goal in three months.
Mann was one of the hosts on the MacBreak video podcast, and a core host on the MacBreak Weekly audio podcast.
Innovation Crush podcast In 2013, Denson launched Innovation Crush, an interview series focused on the lives and projects of some of the world's most influential innovators.
An annual segment, Email Debt Forgiveness Day, created an annual holiday on April 30 inviting listeners to send responses to old emails no matter how overdue.
Merritt received a BS in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign and pursued graduate work in communications at the University of Texas at Austin.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
Content As continued from All Things Digital, Recode focuses on technology and digital media news, particularly pertaining to the business of Silicon Valley.
It is co-hosted by Travis View (real name: Logan Strain), Julian Feeld, and Jake Rockatansky, alongside Annie Kelly (British correspondent), Liv Agar (Canadian correspondent), Brad Abrahams (Inner Earth correspondent), and Allie Mezei (QAA Legal Analyst).
In October 2013, Monsanto announced that it was acquiring The Climate Corporation for about $1.1 billion.
In July 2016, Dvorak and co-host Adam Curry won the "Best Podcast" Podcast Award for No Agenda, in the News & Politics category.
Phil Schiller and Craig Federighi also appeared on the live episodes of The Talk Show during WWDC 2016 and 2017.
In 2003, Abumrad was given a freelance assignment by WNYC to interview ABC News science reporter Robert Krulwich and the two men discovered they had a lot in common: both were alumni of Oberlin College (though 25 years apart), and both had worked at WBAI before moving on to WNYC and NPR.
In high school he led the environmental club "Students H.O.P.E." (Students Healing Our Planet Earth).
Career Her first journalism job out of college was as a staff writer for the Features section of the Oakland Tribune.
The podcast covers their attempts to obtain funding for their company, ideas for new projects, and discussions by both co-founders about the financial risk they were taking, and the effect of running the startup on their personal lives.
Rich DeMuro later appeared on the show to announce that he would take over in January with a weekly show, recorded on Saturdays, called "Rich On Tech." Laporte appeared on Friday mornings on KFI with Bill Handel, and previously on such shows as Showbiz Tonight, Live with Kelly, and World News Now.
Following a Twenty Thousand Hertz episode about audio deepfakes, host Dallas Taylor was featured in a September 2020 segment of NPR's Here & Now, discussing the topic.
Before recording started for This Week in Tech 268 on October 3, 2010, while discussing the sale of TechCrunch to AOL, Laporte mentioned that his network would "do three to four [million US$]" in advertising revenue for 2010.
Also as a child, he was an avid reader of Uncle John's Bathroom Reader, as mentioned in many podcasts, and he jokingly cites Uncle John's Bathroom Reader as the source of the majority of his knowledge.
After college he pursued a career in journalism, working as "a cub reporter" in Henry County, Georgia, and was the founding editor of The Washboard Weekly, an "edgy tabloid" in Johnson City, Tennessee.
References External links 5by5 fireside.fm Hivelogic Bacon Method Cork'd PeepCode Playgrounder Dan Benjamin on 5by5 Archived May 8, 2014, at the Wayback Machine Interview with Dan about his Network Creation Archived March 30, 2019, at the Wayback Machine
Zeis completed two years at FDU before dropping out to work as a full-time manager of a local video store, where he had been working part-time since 1997.
The hosts and guests give their reviews of the game, and read contrary and often comedic reviews of the game found online.
QAA describes QAnon as a "big tent conspiracy theory" and a "meta conspiracy theory that provides an underlying narrative for other baseless theories".
As of January 2023, Radiolab has earned 13 podcast industry award nominations, including 7 wins, including the 2013 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Science and Medicine Podcast and the 2015 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Produced Podcast.
The common topics on Linux and free software were discussed there with studio guests, articles from the RadioTux archive (podcasts, interviews) provide appropriate background information.
Carroll received an "Emperor Has No Clothes" award at the Freedom From Religion Foundation Annual National Convention in October 2014.
David Albert Friedberg (born June 6, 1980) is a South African-American entrepreneur, businessman, and angel investor.
History The company was founded in Los Angeles, California, by Jay Adelson, Kevin Rose and David Prager in April 2005.
Their adversaries were Eben Alexander, neurosurgeon and an author, and Raymond Moody, a philosopher, author, psychologist and physician.
Topics and content RadioTux focuses on developments within the Linux and open-source ecosystem, free-software community news and interviews with notable figures such as Mark Shuttleworth, Richard Stallman and Klaus Knopper.
On May 27, 2015 New Tech City changed its name to Note to Self, in response to listener suggestions.
In the projects and distros category, the Open Rights Group was awarded £1000, the Electronic Frontier Foundation was awarded £300 and the Free Software Foundation was awarded £200.
After attending the Potomac School, Thompson graduated from Northwestern University in 2008 with a triple major in journalism, political science, and legal studies.
Recordings were usually made on Monday in a live show, using IRC and releases of the show usually occur on Wednesday.
In 2021, Vogt and another producer left the show following backlash critical of the work environment.
Presenters While the show had various presenters over the years, the line-up for the final 5 seasons was Alan Pope, Mark Johnson and Martin Wimpress.
Reception Charlotte Hilton Andersen wrote in Reader's Digest that the hosts "have a knack for picking science stories that kids will find fascinating".
Bibliography Laporte has written technology-oriented books including: He has published a yearly series of technology almanacs: Laporte announced in October 2006 that he would not renew his contract with Que Publishing, and had retired from publishing books.
The talks (all of which have been previously recorded and released by TED) are supplemented by follow-up interviews with the speaker, original reporting and other segments that bring the ideas to life.
In June 2015, Mann began a 10 podcast series with John Siracusa in collaboration with Relay FM called Reconcilable Differences, which has since been extended.
The term "keyword" ties into the name of the show as something a search engine uses to categorize things of importance.
Among Searls' contributions to the Manifesto was its first thesis, "Markets are conversations"—also the title of the Cluetrain chapter he co-wrote with David Weinberger.
I've been converted." In 1985, following Steve Jobs leaving Apple, Dvorak wrote, "Maybe when the smoke clears, we will have heard the last of Steve Jobs as guru, seer, visionary and hapless victim too ...
Other work Zomorodi is the author of the books Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self and Camera Ready: How to Present Your Best Self and Ideas On Air and Online.
Radiolab and the IAU held a public naming campaign for the asteroid 2004 GU9 from June to September 2024.
People's Choice Podcast Awards 2018 People's Voice Award Winner for Best Science and Education Podcast.
According to Morris, they moved to the country on temporary visas to allow their children to attend schools overseas.
The one-on-one discussions typically revolve around nuclear energy and related topics including political policy, climate change, and nuclear medicine.
Jono Bacon and Stuart Langridge are the only two presenters who were with the show throughout, with Jono Bacon being the only presenter to appear on every show.
The logo design originated from a traditional logic gate symbol of an "AND gate" turned on its side.
He attended Sprayberry High School and studied history and anthropology at the University of Georgia.
The show has covered a large variety of topics, including R/wallstreetbets, QAnon, Geedis, "Rome, Sweet Rome", wrestling, and homelessness.
Additionally, upwards of 80 percent of listeners reported that the program's pace was exciting, and over 80 percent reported that the layering of interviews was engaging.
Prior to the show's change of format, the hosts introduced themselves with a string of catchphrases that developed from several video game encounters and humorous inside jokes.
Also in 2014, Carroll partook in a debate held by Intelligence Squared, the title of the debate was "Death is Not Final".
Ubuntu Podcast was an Ubuntu Linux news and technology podcast formed by the Ubuntu UK Local Community Team.
January 12, 2014: On This Week in Tech (TWiT) episode 440 as a guest with Marques Brownlee and John C.
The hosts are Ben Brock Johnson (the former host of Marketplace Tech) and Amory Sivertson (who formerly worked on Modern Love: The Podcast).
The show is hosted and produced by Dallas Taylor and the writer of the episode, with help from Sam Schneble.
The show initially took the same tone of discussion as podcast network Earwolf's How Did This Get Made?, a podcast celebrating bad movies, and was originally perceived as a spin-off.
The main portion of the show consists of a round-table discussion and debate, pegged loosely to a selection of the week's major technology headlines.
For the first 14 episodes of Tekzilla, Patrick's co-host was Jessica Corbin, who made a guest appearance on episode 16 confirming she has left the show.
Inbox Zero became associated with the Getting Things Done productivity strategy, and is a popular topic on Lifehacker.
Endless Thread is a podcast from Boston-based WBUR, in partnership with Reddit, that focuses on stories relating to Reddit posts.
On November 19, 2022, actor, writer, musician, and comedian Steve Martin called into Laporte's radio show to announce Leo's retirement from The Tech Guy radio show.
References External links Official ABC page Marc Fennell's Download This Show page Rae Johnston’s official website
Patel has appeared on a number of news channels, including MS NOW (formerly MSNBC), Fox News, CNN, CNN International, NPR, Sky News, NHK, G4TV, and TWiT.
She has continued her approach of engaging with audience members to gather data about the impact of technology on their lifestyles through projects like "Body Electric", which studied how taking movement breaks affect peoples' bodies.
The firm states that the approach can produce polyploid offspring that retain the full genomes of both parents and can shorten breeding cycles across major crops.
TWiT Network Before joining TWiT as an employee, Merritt had a long-standing working relationship with former TechTV colleague Leo Laporte's network, having regularly appeared on This Week in Tech as either a guest or as a relief host.
The show was a mixture of interviews and call-ins, as well as Laporte's own thoughts and opinions on current events in technology.
The show, which was first exclusively broadcast on KFI 640 AM in Los Angeles, was picked up for syndication by Premiere Networks (then Premiere Radio Networks) in February 2007.
In 2010, Carroll was elected fellow of the American Physical Society for "contributions to a wide variety of subjects in cosmology, relativity and quantum field theory, especially ideas for cosmic acceleration, as well as contributions to undergraduate, graduate and public science education".
Unlike other shows, however, Search Engine concentrates on ways in which the Internet influences other aspects of life and culture.
Education Morris graduated from Mission San Jose High School in Fremont, California in 1996 and went on to receive her BA in Mass Communication with an emphasis in Journalism from California State University, East Bay in 2000.
Tekzilla Tekzilla was an American video podcast on the Revision3 network (Tekzilla was released every Tuesday).
There is a X/Twitter account, an Instagram account, and a Facebook page for SYSK, as well as a now official Facebook group for the SYSK Army, which was created by four listeners on January 30, 2011 (and became official when linked to the SYSK Facebook page on May 10, 2017).
Episodes The first season of the show began with a short listing of the podcast's current sponsors, followed by a humorous fake advertisement (i.e.
May 26, 2013: On This Week in Tech (TWiT) episode 407 as a guest with Larry Magid and Jeff Gerstmann.
In June 2007, Gruber and Dan Benjamin began co-hosting an independent podcast featuring conversations and commentary on trends, mainly focusing on technology at thetalkshow.net.
TWiT founder and owner Leo Laporte, in an October 2009 speech, stated that it grossed revenues of $1.5 million per year, while costs were around $350,000.
Trivial Pursuit On July 7, 2021, Hasbro released a special edition of Trivial Pursuit: The Stuff You Should Know Edition.
Speakers included Chris DiBona (Google), Gervase Markham (Mozilla) and a representative from the Department for Communities and Local Government.
Media outlets have described Gruber as an Apple "fanboy" in conjunction with his writing on the website; Gruber responded in a 2011 interview that although he does not use the term fanboy, he supports Apple because he appreciates the company.
He has acted as a relief host for Laporte on TWiT, Windows Weekly, Security Now and other shows when Laporte has been unavailable.
On October 3, 2018, the podcast started releasing additional short episodes titled Short Stuff, where they cover topics that don't warrant the length of a full episode (e.g.
The last episode went ahead live at the Music Box on December 30, 2011, skipping to episode #420 for a 2-parter.
Binärgewitter (literally "binary thunderstorm") is a technology podcast that originated as a spin-off of the RadioTux Talk format around 2011.
In 2004, Aaron Swartz and Gruber worked together to create the Markdown language, with the goal of enabling people "to write using an easy-to-read and easy-to-write plain text format, optionally convert it to structurally valid XHTML (or HTML)".
The Tech Guy was a widely syndicated US radio show hosted by Leo Laporte, formerly of TechTV and later with TWiT.tv.
Weinberger and Searls co-wrote "World of Ends: What the Internet Is and How to Stop Mistaking It for Something Else".
In May 2013, one month after the sale of Instapaper, Arment announced he was selling The Magazine to Glenn Fleishman, its editor.
Live broadcasts as comprehensive programming have been transmitted from LinuxTag, the Linux World Conference & Expo and the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage.
He received his Bachelor of Science in computer science from Drexel University, and worked for Bare Bones Software (2000–02) and Joyent (2005–06).
In a 2012 Reddit posting, he commented that revenue was approaching US$4 million (equivalent to $5,720,000 in 2025).
During the first few years TWiT episodes were made available in a variety of file formats for individual download or RSS subscription.
Gunn's degrees include a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science from the University of San Francisco, a master's degree in computer science from Purdue University and a Doctor of Philosophy in mechanical engineering from Purdue.
Career Gunn's early career included work at NASA on large-scale scientific computation and global communications, with special emphasis in infrared satellite image processing, computational fluid dynamics, and global climate and weather modeling.
The show was originally conceived of as a Star Wars podcast, and a pilot episode on that theme was recorded, before it was decided to focus on video games instead.
History Leo Laporte has been doing one version or another of his technology talk show since 1990, including a syndicated show originating from KGO.
Merritt still appeared on the Frogpants Network for a segment called Tom's Tech Time on Wednesdays on the Scott Johnson/Brian Ibbott-hosted podcast, The Morning Stream.
Personal life She is married to television reporter Josh Robin, with whom she has two children and lives in New York City.
Heather's Hole, in which Heather Anne Campbell reaches into "the deep, gaping maw that is her video game collection", and retrieves a lesser known title, gaming system or piece of gaming memorabilia to discuss.
The format of the show encourages spontaneity and the conversation often diverges wildly from technology topics.
Though much of the subject matter he deals with is serious, Brown generally takes a lighthearted, tongue-in-cheek approach to his material.
Leaders Jeffrey "Jeff" Divine (born Jeffrey Ayan; formerly Ender Ayanethos) grew up in Lapeer, Michigan, in a Catholic family.
He escaped in March 2013, and remained at large for several months, until he was hacked to death by villagers on 29 August 2013.
Uthman was later succeeded by his son, Abu Ja'far Muhammad, who served until his death in 304 or 305 (917 or 918 CE).
The guided meditation then encourages the meditators to imagine themselves being on the Elohim's planet and communicating telepathically with these aliens.
The Jesuits began missionary work among the Tepehuan in 1596, establishing missions at Santiago Papasquiaro and Santa Catarina de Tepehuanes and, later, El Zape.
The NOI's division into two factions after Elijah Muhammad's death was caused in part by the fact that new leader Warith Mohammed wished to reject the Yakub myth, while national spokesman Farrakhan wanted to reaffirm it.
Many people directly attributed personal miracles to receiving a blessing from Rabbi Kaduri, such as recovery from severe illnesses and diseases, children born to couples with fertility problems, finding a spouse, and economic blessings.
This is a list of notable people who have been said to be a messiah, either by themselves or by their followers.
'seem to evoke a suffering Messiah in the perspective opened up by the Servant Songs.'" The text of 4Q541 Fragment 9 reads, 2 And he will atone for all the children of his generation, and he will be sent to all the children of 3 his [people].
April 16, 2021), also known by her followers as Mother God, was an American religious leader and the co-founder of the new religious movement Love Has Won.
Verse 10 Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.
Epidemics were known to have occurred in their region in 1594, 1601-1602, 1606-1607, 1610, and 1616-1617.
As the LORD is speaking to another Lord, Henry postulates that "two distinct divine Persons…are involved"—namely, God and Jesus.
Before becoming a religious leader, Raël, then known as Claude Vorilhon, worked as a sports-car journalist and test driver for his car-racing magazine, Autopop.
He attended Francisian Classic Gymnasium in Visoko and subsequently studied theology, but never actually became a priest.
Unlike impostors, he will truly establish peace and well-being, implementing justice and equity in a tangible, not symbolic, manner.
Hayyim ben Joseph Vital Hayyim ben Joseph Vital wrote that whoever wants to know what will happen in the end days should study the first seven days.
The bomb was planted under the wrong car and failed to kill Gaddafi but did result in the deaths of several innocent civilians.
Also Al-Majlisi (may God's mercy be upon him) in the book of Bihar Al-Anwar, named the speech of the progeny of Muhammed℗ as the "Yamani wisdom." That was also reported by the messenger of God℗, as he named Abd Al-Mutalib℗ the sacred house the Yamani Ka’aba.
Around this time, Muhammad Ahmad first met Abdallahi bin Muhammad al-Ta'aishi, who was to become his chief deputy and successor in the years to come.
For different aspects of "prison", see "prisoners of hope" in Zechariah 9:11, and the "spirits in prison" in 1 Peter 3:19.
And through them is the completion of favors and the perfection of religion and the heavenly messages are sealed.
They were often named after him, and there are many toponyms—from Istria in the west to Bulgaria in the east—derived from his name.
Background Sinasa was a village in a remote, mountainous area of Davao City, around 25 miles from city center.
Divine protection in battle Te Ua taught that the divine service and strict adherence to his instruction would make them impervious to bullets if, when under fire, they would raise their right hand and cry, "Hapa!
Vermes Pierced Messiah reading "[...]Isaiah the prophet: [The thickets of the forest] will be fell [ed with an axe and Lebanon shall f]all by a mighty one].
Arnold Potter (January 11, 1804 – April 2, 1872) was a self-declared Messiah and a leader of a schismatic sect in the Latter Day Saint movement.
In 2019, the couple founded the Church of Union, to "unify all religion under one spiritual umbrella".
The same measures were taken in the occupied territories; in French Lorraine, the Nazis forbade religious youth movements, parish meetings, and scout meetings.
Father Divine purchased his 72 Macon Avenue house from a resident who wanted to spite the neighbor he was feuding with.
Jacob falls asleep and sees a ladder set up on the Earth; the top of it reaches to heaven with angels ascending and descending on it.
James John Todd Kincannon (born June 12, 1981) is an American attorney and political activist known for his statements made regarding political issues and current events.
Manson's pen-pal Michael Channels claimed to have a Manson will dated February 14, 2002, which left Manson's entire estate and Manson's body to Channels.
While being against "globalism", Bolsonaro sought to work with various other neo-fascist, far-right, and authoritarian political parties, groups, and strategists to combat left wing politics across central and south America.
Its language reveals it to be apocalyptic; it speaks of distress that will come upon the land and of the disastrous reign of enemies.
While the surviving form of the Sibylline Oracles was likely edited by Christians, most believe that some of it originates from Greek-speaking Hellenistic Jews.
Due to his poor study skills and dyslexia partially caused by poor eyesight, he was put in special education classes and bullied by his schoolmates.
From around 1900, he traveled and wrote travel books, stories, and plays, with his plays becoming somewhat popular.
He was already deployed in Egypt due to the attempted coup there earlier, and organized a large force of infantry, but advanced at an extremely slow rate.
‘Abdullah al Himyary al Qommi as the narrator of this Ziyarat was lived in the terminal period of the minor occultation and likewise many of his letters to the twelfth Imam of Shia (Mahdi) have been narrated, according to source(s).
He contended that this would be a "biological change into a different species, casting his teachings as scientific truth in line with secular naturalism." He emphasized to his early followers that he was not speaking metaphorically, often using the words "biology" and "chemistry" in his statements.
Juhayman and 68 other militants were captured alive and later sentenced to death by Saudi authorities, being executed by beheading in public displays across a number of Saudi cities.
Content of the poems and stories The folk poems tell about King Matjaž's fights with the Turks, about the kidnapping of his wife Alenčica, or his rescue from the Turkish jail.
She and Moon together are referred to as the "True Parents" by members of the Unification Church and their family as the "True Family".
S Salusan bull – Fierce and very aggressive creature with compound eyes and multiple horns, used in bullfighting on Caladan and originating from Salusa Secundus.
The statement "and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it" is usually taken to mean that the Church will never become extinct.
Their lifestyle typically consisted of hunting animals with bows and arrows, growing root vegetables, and wearing loincloth garments.
Jafari said "This film was produced with a budget of 600,000 dollars in 15 months, which is a record in the local animation industry." The quality of Roman Princess is far ahead of other animations in Iran and is comparable with foreign works.
Birth and early life of al-Mahdi When al-Askari died without leaving an obvious heir, the traditions and predictions attributed to earlier Imams were largely the basis for the existence of the son of al-Askari as the twelfth Imam; see Twelver doctrine of occultation.
cell, Debra Dobkowski, and spent 16 months in prison before his conviction was overturned on appeal.
Love Needs Care: A History of San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury Free Medical Clinic and Its Pioneer Role Treating Drug-abuse Problems.
Pope Pius X in the encyclical E Supremi said that the distinguishing mark of the Antichrist is claiming to be God and taking his place.
It also faced opposition within and without the Theosophical Society, leading to years of upheaval, serious splits, and doctrinal schisms in Theosophy.
Potter spent his days wandering the streets in Council Bluffs wearing a long white robe and became a local oddity.
Sheikh Abbas Qomi narrates Ziyarat Ale Yasin in Mafatih al-Janan as the first Ziyarat for Imam Mahdi.
With Garvey’s rise to prominence in the 1910s, Bedward became convinced that God had only ever intended for him to be one of a sequence of prophets rather than a messiah — Aaron to Garvey’s Moses is how he termed it — paving the way for the younger man to deliver his people into the Promised Land.
Quautlatas promised divine intervention to return to an idealized past in which the plagues and suffering brought upon the Tepehuán by the Spanish would disappear.
There have been rumours of him dying, with some sources reporting that he died in 2001 and others saying he died in 2003.
Burials in Najaf have been documented as early as the Parthian and Sassanid eras and ancient Mesopotamian cities often had similar cemeteries, where there was an accumulation of tombs.
Others came forward and in 2000 two people were paid a total of 250,000 French Francs by the Victim Compensation Commission.
Song Zixian (宋子贤), a native of Tang County in the Sui dynasty, who was an expert in magic, and claimed to be able to transform into the form of Buddha and claimed to be an incarnation of Maitreya Buddha and staged a rebellion.
Thus, cosmopolitan activists around the globe, perceiving the IGOs as too ineffectual for global change, formed a world federalist movement.
Saf ibn Sayyad (Arabic: الصف بن الصياد), later known as Abdullah ibn Sa'id (Arabic: عبد الله بن سعيد), was an alleged claimant of prophethood during the time of Islamic prophet Muhammad and his companions who later disappeared after the Ridda wars.
A number of folk poems and stories about King Matjaž are known, the earliest ones originating in the western Slovene area of Tolmin from the 16th century.
It is a symbol of membership of a Johrei organisation and the member's dedication to Meishu-Sama and his teachings.
During the attack, another MUI official Ikhsan Abdullah stated that the attacker claimed to be God himself.
Henry further claims that in this psalm, David is acknowledging Christ's sovereignty and his (David's) subservience to him.
Sources Du'a Faraj which is attributed to Imam Mahdi, has been quoted in diverse compilations such as Konuz al-Nejah (Sheikh Tabarsi), Wasael al-Shia (of Sheikh Al-Hurr al-Aamili), Jamal al-Usbu (of Sayyed Ibn Tawus) and so on.
He went on to teach Johrei to his followers to allow them to achieve Messianity and spread the teachings across the world.
From 1924 he used the pen name "Abd-ru-shin" (originally "Abdruschin") of allegedly Persian-Arabic origin, which Bernhardt originally interpreted as meaning "The Son of the Holy Spirit", but which many later authors have translated as "Son of Light".
SOUST SOUST, aka Suprema Ordem Universal da Santa Trindade (Acronym in Portuguese for "Supreme Universal Order of the Holy Trinity") refers to the residence of Álvaro Thais.
According to Ayatollah Bahjat, the recitation of Dua Al-Faraj is the best act in order not to be destroyed in the end times.
Multiple scholars highlight the similarity between the Hemerobaptists and the Essenes, a Jewish sect that flourished during the late Second Temple period.
In their different ways, the Avars and Slavs in the Balkans, and the Sasanians and Muslims in the Levant and Northern Africa, had different models of governance and no appetite for posing as Romans.
In Arabic malḥama or malḥamat (plural malāḥim) can signify a fierce war with considerable atrocities and killing, a similar battle within such a war, bloody combat, or massacre or slaughter.
Although robbed of all of his possessions, including his demon-slaying sword, by bandits in the town of Meizixun, he eventually reached Thistle Mountain on 27 August 1847.
Despite initially amicable relations, in 1878 the two religious leaders had a dispute motivated by Sheikh Sharif's resentment of his former student's growing popularity.
He retreated into the mountain village of Gal, where he formed a personality cult around himself as the Messiah, adopting the moniker "Black Jesus".
Bolsonarism broke out in Brazil with the rise in popularity of Bolsonaro, especially during his campaign in the presidential election in 2018, which elected him as president.
This added proof in some scholars' eyes that the Jewish belief was that the coming Messiah would be a king who brought peace, and would be "called by Second Temple Jews the 'Son of God'".
Jones' father was a disabled World War I veteran who suffered from severe breathing difficulties due to injuries sustained in a chemical weapons attack.
Besides, the du'a of “Allahuma Kon LeWaliyyek al-Hujjat ibn al-Hassan (which means: O Allah, be, for Your representative, the Hujjat (proof), son of AlHassan)” is also as famous as Du'a al-Faraj by Shia Muslims.
His family retained leadership of the Babylonian exiles (Ezekiel 1:2), and his descendants were at the head of those who returned to Zion.
Ibn Babawayh in his work mentions a hadith of Ja'far al-Sadiq that says the uprising of Muhammad al-Mahdi will occur 5 days after the murder of Al-Nafs al-Zakiyyah.
Has Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) not said that he would be a Jew whereas I am a Muslim and he also said that he would not have children, whereas I have children, and he also said: verily, Allah has prohibited him to enter Mecca whereas I have performed Pilgrimage".
His face, with a neatly trimmed beard, matched a photo in a pamphlet found at the site entitled "Holy Coming", which identified him as the Mahdi.
Duanaire Ghearóid Iarla (The Poem-Book of Earl Gerald) is preserved in a fifteenth-century manuscript, the Book of Fermoy.
Yahweh was indicted on three counts of federal racketeering and extortion charges, of which he was found not guilty.
In 1972, Moon founded the International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences, a series of scientific conferences.
Iraqi officials, including Najaf deputy governor Abdel Hussein Attan, had claimed that the group had links with al-Qaeda, but given that Sunni jihadists are fiercely anti-Shia, this seemed unlikely.
Although the fall of Nanjing in 1864 marked the destruction of the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom, there were still several thousands of Taiping rebels continuing to resist Qing forces.
In an interview, Ben Ammi described his status as a spiritual leader: My anointing did not come until after we had arrived in Israel.
Policies Within the land that it controlled, the Taiping Heavenly Army established totalitarian, theocratic, and highly militarised rule.
The family were all known as Mughals within the British governmental records of India probably due to the high positions it occupied within the Mughal Empire and their courts.
Prophet's daughter, a professor of religion at the University of Florida, has argued that earlier variations of the concept appear in the works of Charles Fourier and Emanuel Swedenborg.
Books written by the Waqifites 'Ali ibn al-Hasan al-Ta'i al-Tatari (a companion of Musa al-Kadhim) named Musa al-Kadhim as the hidden Imam.
On April 24, 1840, Potter was given the Melchizedek priesthood and ordained to the priesthood office of elder by Joseph Smith.
Ziyarat Ale Yasin (Arabic: زیارة آل یاسین) is regarded as a well-known Ziyarat (piece of salutation) which is associated with Mahdi who is an eschatological redeemer of Islam that will reappear and he will rid the world of all wicked and bad things (evil).
Although the Taghlib tribe under Hudhayl ibn 'Imran pledged their allegiance and abandoned Christianity, the majority of the Banu Tamim clans rejected her call, which made Sajah give up hope of getting the support from the majority of her own kinsmen.
One central theme of the BBC documentary was again Alaya Rahm's sexual abuse allegations against Sathya Sai Baba.
The Tepehuán Revolt broke out in New Spain in 1616 when the indigenous Tepehuán attempted to break free from Spanish rule.
Iconography Krishna is represented in the Indian traditions in many ways, but with some common features.
"Be discouraged": from Hebrew: יָר֔וּץ, yā-rūts, "bruised", from the root word "crushed" (רָצַץ, ratsats), used to describe "crushed reed" (or "bruised reed") and "dim (כָּהָה, kahah) wick" (or "smoking flax") in verse 3, repeated here for rhetorical effect.
Practitioners claim to channel light towards patients by holding up the palms of their hands towards the recipient's body.
He worked as a stock broker for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter until August 1998, when he went on disability after being diagnosed with bipolar disorder.
'Peace upon thee, O son of Levi', Joshua replied, and Elijah told him that that meant that he and his father would have a place in the world to come.
Isaiah 53 is the fifty-third chapter of the Book of Isaiah in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament of the Christian Bible.
classified the syndrome into three major types to reflect the different types of interactions between a visit to Jerusalem and unusual or psychosis-related thought processes.
Death of Gershon Salomon On November 23, 2022, Gershon Salomon, founder of the Temple Mount Faithful, died.
See also Christian messianic prophecies Messianic prophecies of Jesus Related Bible parts: Isaiah 40, Isaiah 42 References Bibliography Würthwein, Ernst (1995).
After a long trial, with many witnesses, "Smith instructed the jury to ignore the statements made by witnesses not present on the night of the raid.
The story says that the ghosts are trapped inside the Ålleberg mountain, waiting for a new war to wake them up so they can fight to save the country.
When the House of David was told that Syria had allied itself with Ephraim, their hearts and the hearts of their people trembled ...
Yes, by Allah he has died, and his wealth has been distributed and his slave girls have been married.” He suspected those who claimed that his father did not die, of lying and said: “They are disbelievers in what Allah the Exalted has revealed on Muhammad.
The full Johannine development of the Father-Son relationship rests on an authentic basis in the Jesus-tradition (Mark 14:36; Matthew 11:25–26; 16:17; Luke 11:2).
Appearance of Yamani In Shia theology, five signs are guaranteed to occur before Imam al-Mahdi’s appearance.
The collection consists of 3,000 pieces of Japanese and Oriental art, of which 250 to 300 are on display at any one time.
Israel Knohl, an expert in Talmudic and biblical language at Jerusalem's Hebrew University, translated line 80 of the inscription as "In three days, live, I Gabriel com[mand] yo[u]".
From 1864 to 1868, upon his father's wishes, Ahmad worked as a clerk in Sialkot, where he would come into contact with Christian missionaries with whom he frequently engaged in debate.
He received the nickname "Pastor" because he was a reverend of the World Messianic Church of Brazil (IMMB).
Public speaking and religious activities In 1969, at the age of 21, Inri began his public life as a self-professed prophet and astrologer, introducing himself as "Iuri de Nostradamus".
Berger's response to David Singer Archived 2007-01-25 at the Wayback Machine "The Professor, Messiah, & Scandal of Calumnies".
For Thomas Aquinas (who also taught the Perfection of Christ), the "'Son of God' is God as known to God".
In a religious subculture of competing claims, Jones declared that the almighty God spoke solely to him and that he was the second coming of Christ and thus was the world's 'one and only true prophet' and savior.
A physical analysis of the stone found no evidence of modern treatment of the surface, and found the attached soil most consistent with the area east of the Lisan Peninsula of the Dead Sea.
He was severely beaten, his hair and beard were cut and he was sent back for trial to his city of origin, Quixeramobim.
Likewise, the Psalms record God's promise to establish the seed of David on his throne forever, while Isaiah and Jeremiah speak of the coming reign of a righteous king of the house of David.
In 1941, she married Lionel Harris and had one biological child, Judith, who later sued her mother and settled in Britain before predeceasing her.
52;7) 11Q13 states that Zion is the congregation of all the sons of righteousness, while Melchizedek is "Your Elohim" who will deliver the sons of righteousness from Belial.
According to Hussain, restrictions on the later Imams inevitably expanded the role and authority of their representatives, particularly their main agent (safir).
James the Brother of Jesus: The Key to Unlocking the Secrets of Early Christianity and the Dead Sea Scrolls (VikingPenguin).
In Shaker society, a spiritual "gift" could be a musical revelation, and they considered it important to record musical inspirations as they occurred.
Now, "he has received from the Father the Holy spirit, who was promised." (Acts 2:16-21.17.33) According to Isaiah, the messianic age was to have its anointed leader, the Messiah, who would be filled with the gifts of the spirit to be able to accomplish his saving work.
The account describes that the pregnancy of Narjis miraculously had no physical signs, similar to Moses' mother, and that Hakima Khatun was brought in as midwife only when the birth was due.
The most notable surviving early example is the Book of Revelation (written at some point in the 90s AD), also known as the Apocalypse of John, which was eventually included in the canon of the New Testament.
At that dinner, Willie Brown touted Jones as "what you should see every day when you look in the mirror" and said he was a combination of Martin Luther King Jr., Angela Davis, Albert Einstein, and Mao.
Krishnamurti eventually dismantled it in 1929, disavowing any further relationship with it and Theosophy in general.
Gesenius' Hebrew and Chaldee Lexicon to the Old Testament Scriptures: Numerically Coded to Strong's Exhaustive Concordance, with an English Index.
According to another account, al-Isfahani's attempt to institute Zoroastrian worship led Abu Tahir to have him murdered less than three months after proclaiming him the Mahdi.
On March 16, 1856, Potter received a call to serve as a missionary in Australia from LDS Church president Brigham Young.
Al-Masa'il : Ibn Nadim mentioned this work in his list, and its title is recorded in Ahmad ibn Muhammad al-Zurari message.
and the messenger is the Anointed one of the spirit, concerning whom Dan[iel] said, [Until an anointed one, a prince (Dan.
Witnesses of Ahn Sahng-hong Church of God One group, consisting of 11 out of the 13 churches, recognized Kim Joo-cheol as the successor and Zahng Gil-jah as the spiritual bride.
After being promoted he fought a long, indecisive campaign in 572–591 against the Byzantines in northern Mesopotamia.
See also Sufyani Khasf al-Bayda' Al-Yamani (Shiism) Nafs-e-Zakiyyah (Pure soul) Reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi Signs of the reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi Voice of God == References ==
The Prelude to Dune prequel series establishes it to be the fur of the Bjondax whales of Lankiveil, a planet controlled by the Harkonnens.
And I love that my work would be raised during my fasting." Birthday of Muhammad al-Mahdi According to Twelver Shias, Muhammad al-Mahdi, the final Shia Imām, was born on 15 Sha'ban.
The delegation before their departure embraced Islam and renounced Christianity without compunction.
See also Brazilian integralism Chavismo Conservatism in Brazil Diehard Duterte Supporters Fascism in Brazil Fujimorism Kirchnerism Lulism Military dictatorship in Brazil Trumpism References Works cited Further reading Boito, Armando, Jr.
In the middle of the ruins grows a 160-year-old spruce called "Big Monk." In popular culture Czech historical novelist Alois Jirásek portrayed the Blaník legend in his Ancient Bohemian Legends.
Early Krishnaite Bhakti pioneers included Nimbarkacharya (7th century CE), and his disciple Srinivasacharya but most emerged later, including Vallabhacharya (15th century CE) and Chaitanya Mahaprabhu.
Perpetrator The perpetrator was later identified as a man named Mustofa or Mustopa NR, a 60-year-old resident of Sukajaya Village, Pesawaran Regency, Lampung.
A man attempted to attack him with a hand grenade during a discourse at his home in Kotri, Pakistan.
Ann Lee's mission throughout New England was especially successful in converting groups who were already outside the mainstream of New England Protestantism, including followers of Shadrack Ireland.
In his book, al-Nu'mani wrote that, having noticed how the Shia followers were perplexed by the event of the occultation, he wanted to try and save them from this perplexity.
In his review of Want Two, Pitchfork's Stephen Deusner described the savior character as "Wainwright's own personal Jesus".
According to Bourne, the play was particularly popular, and philologist Du Cange gives mention of a similar play performed at Rouen.
Lalich sees this as a way that they increased their students' devotion, ensuring that their commitment became irrespective of what they saw.
So far, more than 400 have been explored—including the Schellenberg Ice Cave at an elevation of 1,570 m (5,150 ft), a show cave since 1925, and the Kolowrat Cave with a 300 m (980 ft) high dome.
Christian Kabbalah In some modern forms of Christian Kabbalah, based on Lurianic Kabbalah, Jesus is not literally the Son of God but rather a composite being like Adam.
Al-Tabari in his History of the Prophets and Kings chronicles that Musaylima also proposed to share power over Arabia with Muhammad.
An appeal court added four more years to his sentence in 2009, convicting him on all four charges of rape between 2001 and 2006.
We need not belabor the point, but the past hundred years or so have brought about an increase in knowledge unsurpassed in all human history.
After the fall of Constantinople Within decades after the capture of Constantinople by Mehmed II of the Ottoman Empire on 29 May 1453, some Eastern Orthodox people were nominating Moscow as the "Third Rome", or the "New Rome".
The ship was then searched twice by the officers and then again by the captain and neither a drum nor a drummer was found on board; eventually the phenomenon was put down to the legendary drum.
Detailed linguistic studies have been performed by Bar-Asher (2008), Rendsburg (2011), and Young (2013).
Certain sign of reappearance According to narrations, the murder of Al-Nafs al-Zakiyyah is one of the certain signs of reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi.
The incident led to further media criticism of the movement, which was placed under police surveillance.
Meanwhile, due to their adherence to Christian religion, the Tamim tribe also develop close relationship with the Christians of the Euphrates region and northern Syria.
Jesus' next statement, "and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." are interpreted as the foundation of the doctrine of papal infallibility.
The role of Sanhedrin had to be complete, meaning that the Hebrew calendar had to immediately change, which could cause division among the Jewish people Even if Maimonides was correct, because the scholars of Jerusalem were not present the election was invalid.
He will forever destroy the falsehood embodied in al-Masih ad-Dajjal (the false Messiah), the great falsifier, a figure similar to the Antichrist in Christianity, who will emerge shortly before Yawm al-Qiyāmah ('the Day of Resurrection').
Mazzini spoke of the need of Italy as a Third Rome to have imperial aspirations, to be realized in the Italian Empire.
After Pavlović's arrest in 2019, police and veterinarians raided his estate and found a number of dead animal remains and other malnutritioned animals roaming around the estate.
He also argued that there would be biological robots which would serve as sex-slaves, akin to those which Raël states that he encountered on his visit to the Elohim planet.
Silla, after nearly a millennium as a centralized kingdom was quickly declining, and Kung Ye instigated his own rebellion in present-day Kaesŏng in 898.
Also a prominent abolitionist, Spear organized the first Universalist antislavery convention and helped to oversee the stretch of the Underground Railroad which ran through Boston.
Rebellions Prophecies concerning Li Hong’s appearance have been used to legitimize numerous rebellions and insurgencies, all of which rallied around charismatic individuals claimed to be “Li Hong”.
The discourse between Origen and his Jewish counterpart does not seem to have had any consequences for either party.
The agreement called for establishing a committee consisting of a representative from Egypt, one from Britain, two Sudanese members, and a fifth member from a neutral nation, possibly India or Pakistan.
Originally the title Le'ul, which means "Your Highness", was only ever used as a form of address; however, in 1916 the title Le'ul-Ras replaced the senior office of Ras Bitwoded and so became the equivalent of a royal duke.
Gerald FitzMaurice FitzGerald (1335–1398), also known by the Irish Gaelic Gearóid Iarla (Earl Gerald), was the 3rd Earl of Desmond, in southwestern Ireland, under the first creation of that title, and a member of the Anglo-Norman dynasty of the FitzGerald, or Geraldines.
In the early 16th century the Kabbalist Abraham ben Eliezer ha-Levi suggested that the 'Rome' in the story was a small town in Galilee with the same name, and a bit later Moshe Alshich put the Messiah in paradise overlooking this town.
He rejected Confucianism and began propagating a fusion of Christianity, Daoism and millenarianism, which Hong presented as a restoration of the ancient Chinese faith in Shangdi.
Divine Truth teachings also focus on how to develop in love through an understanding of ethics and morality, and the respect of others’ free will.
Jews There are other verses in the old testament that Jews also believe in, and Ahmed al-Hasan has brought them up as his identifying text.
He ends the darkest, degenerating, and chaotic stage of the Kali Yuga to remove adharma and ushers in the Satya Yuga, while riding a white horse with a fiery sword.
Ann Lee (1736–1784), a central figure to the Shakers, who thought she "embodied all the perfections of God" in female form and considered herself in 1772 to be Christ's female counterpart.
Simple Gifts was composed in 1848 by Elder Joseph Brackett, on or about the time he moved to the Shaker community at Alfred, Maine.
Napoleon Bonaparte was believed to be still alive and hiding in Irkutsk, Russia, gathering an army to return and conquer the world.
Uses Music The King James Version of verse 6 from this chapter is cited as texts in the English-language oratorio "Messiah" by George Frideric Handel (HWV 56).
Motifs in multiple works are Marko and Ravijojla, Marko and his mother, Marko and Šarac, Marko shooting an arrow, Marko plowing the roads, the fight between Marko and Musa and Marko's death.
He himself often claimed to be a former member of Croatian elite counter-terrorist unit ATJ Lučko, but unit's members publicly refuted these claims, even saying that Pavlović embarrasses them.
The World Elijah Evangelical Mission (now known as Elijah's Ten Commandments Stone Country Korean Farmers) was a religious group founded in 1980 by a Chinese Korean man named Park Myung Hoo (朴鳴呼), with five levels of membership: God, Angel, General Secretary, Chief, and Director.
Between 1990 and 2001, he served eleven years of an eighteen-year sentence on a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conviction after he and several other Nation of Yahweh members were convicted of conspiracy for their ex-followers' role in more than a dozen murders.
'The Greatest Battle') is an apocalyptic war set to occur in the end times according to Islamic eschatology.
Buddhists believe that there will come a time of Dharma decline in which social order and morality will decline and the human lifespan will also decline.
References External links "Japanese court throws book at foot cult", Salon "Edited articles on the "Foot Cult" of Japan", Fullerton
Al-Nawadir: In his list, Sheikh Tusi mentioned a work by Bazanti with this title, and introduced Yahya ibn Zakaria ibn shiban as its narrator.
He led his followers into Garveyism by finding the charismatic metaphor: one the high priest, the other prophet, both leading the children of Israel out of exile.
PolitiFact.com has analyzed the elements in this false claim and debunked each one: The word Antichrist does not appear in the Book of Revelation (though it does appear in 1 John and 2 John); the Book of Revelation instead refers to The Beast.
In a 1949 book entitled Christianity after Freud, Benjamin Gilbert Sanders draws parallels between the theory of psychoanalysis and Christian religion, referring to Jesus Christ as "the Great Psychiatrist" and Christians' love for Christ as "a more positive form of the Transference".
Hence, he argued that the reformers "had to leave them in order that we might come to Christ." The ministers of the Church are described from a passage from Ephesians, and they consisted of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and doctors.
Darwin later wrote that he was convinced that he "could have written out the whole of the Evidences with perfect correctness, but not of course in the clear language of Paley.
Soteriology In the centuries leading up to the Reformation, an "Augustinian Renaissance" sparked renewed interest in the thought of Augustine of Hippo (354–430, who is widely regarded as the most influential patristic figure of the Reformation.
In 1993, during a pilgrimage to Agrigento, Sicily, he appealed to the Mafiosi: "I say to those responsible: 'Convert!
Some instances are serious expressions about God and especially His divine intervention in the affairs of mankind, commonly known as Providence.
Numbers and percentages The most basic breakdown of the above data in this page indicates that 86% of the House identify as Christian, 5% of the House identify as Jewish, 3% of the House identify with other religions, <1% of the House is unaffiliated, and 4% of the House have unknown affiliation.
Here I Stand: A Life of Martin Luther (1950) 386 pages Bayer, Oswald, Martin Luther's Theology: A Contemporary Interpretation (2008) 354 pages Brendler, Gerhard.
Burke's view that religion is the source of morality led him to view its absence as a perilous possibility.
The court under Chief Justice John Marshall decided in favor of the Cherokee: imposition of Georgia law on the Cherokee was unconstitutional.
The various editions of that work span nearly his entire career as a reformer, and the successive revisions of the book show that his theology changed very little from his youth to his death.
Trump was also a consistent viewer of televangelists Jimmy Swaggart, Billy Graham, David Jeremiah, and singer Bill Gaither, watching the former three's televised sermons hourly, often into the late evening.
Washington was an officer in the Freemasons, an organization which, at the time Washington lived, required that its members "will never be a stupid Atheist nor an irreligious Libertine", which meant that they should believe in God, regardless of other religious convictions or affiliations.
Following mounting criticism from Jewish groups, Trump's campaign responded that "Trump is right" and that the Democratic Party "has turned into a full-blown anti-Israel, antisemitic, pro-terrorist cabal".
According to him, "Religions have been basis of the tyranny of kings and sultans." He stated that religion should be in conformity with reason, science and logic.
Shakespeare's schooling Four of the six schoolmasters at the grammar school of Shakespeare's youth, King's New School in Stratford, were Catholic sympathisers, and Simon Hunt, who may have been one of Shakespeare's teachers, later became a Jesuit priest.
To this the pontiff responded in a private letter, also published in the Jesuit journal "Civilta Cattolica", denouncing antisemitism: The Supreme Pontiff....
To Darwin, natural selection produced the good of adaptation but removed the need for design, and he could not see the work of an omnipotent deity in all the pain and suffering such as the ichneumon wasp paralysing caterpillars as live food for its eggs.
He also went on to say, "Jesus I could see, that's a historical character." See also Outline of the Beatles The Beatles timeline The Beatles in India "More popular than Jesus" References External links St Peter's church website (Lennon's former church, where he met McCartney)
Rousseau's romantic fallacy that it is society which corrupts man, not man who corrupts society, places a flattering gauze between ourselves and reality.
In an interview conducted in September 1980, three months before his death, Lennon told Playboy journalist David Sheff: "People always got the image I was an anti-Christ or antireligion.
There he instituted martial law because he worried about the loyalty of the city's Creole and Spanish inhabitants.
He devotes five sections of his Historia Nova to the emperor (1.18–22) — more than Alexander Severus, who only gets half a section (1.8).
During the Revolutionary War it has been suggested that Washington was again baptized by the Baptist chaplain to the Continental Army John Gano at Valley Forge.
But, when I went to Gettysburg and looked upon the graves of our dead heroes who had fallen in defense of their country, I then and there consecrated myself to Christ.
The fusion of political Christianity with Trump's own views has been described as "Christian Trumpism".
Religion and the State should be inextricably linked, in his view, as the state was indispensable in providing justice to the people, enforcing Islamic law by enjoining good and forbidding evil, unifying the people and preparing a society conducive to the worship of God.
Other indications have been detected in the sympathetic view of religious life expressed in the phrase "thrice blessed", scholastic theology in The Phoenix and the Turtle, sympathetic allusions to English Jesuit Edmund Campion in Twelfth Night, and many other instances.
Rizal articulated that the only genuine faith was "blind faith." In short, the more people tried to explain to him what and who God was, the more he was convinced that they did not know what they were talking about.
Church leaders like Smith often attempted to avoid the topic and took a public position of neutrality during the Missouri years.
He argued that because the Church was "built up with the strong and stable matter of the gospel of liberty", it had nothing to fear from allowing other Christian groups to worship as they wished.
According to Ali, "hearts and souls have no color", and it was wrong of Elijah Muhammad to have talked of "white devils".
No going to the banks and borrowing from, in some cases, a fine banker – and in some cases, Shylocks and bad people", invoking the trope of Jews as greedy moneylenders.
I do not think the Red Indians had any right to say, 'American continent belongs to us and we are not going to have any of these European settlers coming in here'.
His years in Peru gave him personal knowledge of political violence and inequality; at times, as a missionary, he traveled by horse on difficult roads to reach isolated communities in the valleys of Lambayeque.
By connecting natural religion with a primitive state of nature, Burke suggests the anti-social and degenerating implications of deism.
He differed in important ways from the Calvinism with which he is associated, particularly concerning the doctrines of grace and predestination.
Are you the greatest?" Cheadle later declared in 2019 that he was so unhappy with Trump's "white superiority complex" and the "pro-white" Republican Party's usage of Blacks as "political pawns" that he was leaving the Republican Party.
Pio XII, Discorsi Ai Medici collected by Fiorenzo Angelini, Roma, 1959, 725 pages, Italian, medical theology and morality.
no single point in common with the perjury of the Jews." See also History of the Jews in the Roman Empire External links Jewish Virtual Library Simple to Remember (Judaism Online) website == References ==
Darwin contributed to the church, helped with parish assistance and proposed a benefit society which became the Down Friendly Society with Darwin as guardian and treasurer.
The unaffiliated are extremely under-represented, while Jews, Presbyterians, Lutherans and Episcopalians are particularly over-represented.
Reaction to the Zionist movement Nahum Sokolov, author, journalist and board member of the Zionist World Congress, came to Rome to gain support for the plan of Jewish settlement in Palestine.
If anything, 2001 shows that what some people call "god" is simply an acceptable term for their ignorance.
Downe parish Although he is commonly portrayed as being in conflict with the Church of England, Darwin was supportive of the local parish church.
This created problems inside and outside the Church but also resulted in a clearing of the air and in much attention to his utterings, which otherwise may not have materialized.
Beatification controversy The beatification of Pope Pius IX, by Pope John Paul II, revived the controversy over the Pius IX and the Jews, including unfounded claims that Pius IX had "abused" Mortara, based on accounts of Edgardo hiding under the cassock of Pius IX.
One of them, in Nissen's hand, says, "The priests declined to come because the sick person himself did not send for them." According to Halliwell, "A later annotation states that although Mozart did not receive the last rites (presumably absolution and Holy Communion), he was given extreme unction.
He embraced the Hare Krishna tradition and, in the summer of 1969, produced the single "Hare Krishna Mantra", performed by the devotees of the London Radha Krishna Temple.
Together, they left Eastern banks unable to pay specie to the British when they recalled their loans to address their economic problems in international trade.
God punishes them by casting them out of Eden and exposing them to the pain of the world, but he promises them that his Son will descend and bring about their salvation.
In 1611 and again in 1625, a decree prohibited any discussion of the matter, although it was often informally skirted by the publication of commentaries on Thomas Aquinas.
235–38) are alleged to have issued general rescripts against the religion and targeted its clergy, but the evidence for their acts is obscure and contested.
In addition, his criticism of the rabbinic interpretation of the Scriptures in part violated his own exegetical principles.
Instead, he wishes to keep Christians from either relying upon or despairing because of their own conduct or attitude.
He argues that Shakespeare probably included the allusion for the sake of topicality, trusting that his audience would have heard of Garnet's pamphlet on equivocation, and not from any hidden sympathy for the man or his cause – indeed the portrait is not a sympathetic one.
The Fundamental Accord of 1993 remains unsettled because of disputes over property rights and tax exemptions.
The qualities attributed to Providence by Washington reveal that he conceived of Providence as an "Omnipotent," "benign," and "beneficent" Being that by "invisible workings" in "Infinite Wisdom" dispensed justice in the affairs of mankind.
The reason was books were too removed from actual reality as these were written by people, interpreted by others, rewritten by people, obscured by others, etc.
They are the result of a life of inquiry & reflection, and very different from that anti-Christian system imputed to me by those who know nothing of my opinions.
Prevost suggested that the participation and co-responsibility of all the faithful could address the polarization in the church.
In March 2008, a survey conducted by Pew Research Center found that 10% of respondents believed that rumor.
Ibn Taymiyya strongly condemned this as shirk and compared it to the Meccan opponents of the Muhammad, writing:"If he says, “I ask him so that he may intercede with God for me, because he is closer to God than me.
Conversely, the thought of having to face a dreaded "Black Muslim" must have been at the very least a slightly daunting proposition for many of Ali's opponents, especially the ones he christened "Uncle Toms." Notes == References ==
If not, then we would not permit them [to live among us], for Christ commands us to be baptized and believe in Him, even though we cannot now believe so strongly as we should, God is still patient with us.
And the Baghdad vizier known as Al-’Alqami; it was he and others like him who greatly aided them against the Muslims, as well as those who were in Al-Sham’s Aleppo and other rafidha who were the fiercest collaborators in fighting Muslims.
He decided to enter the Augustinian order in the eighth grade after visits by priests of multiple different religious orders to the family home, later saying the Salesians of Don Bosco "came in second place".
See also Classical mechanics Clockwork universe theory Religious and philosophical views of Albert Einstein References Further reading Eamon Duffy, "Far from the Tree" The New York Review of Books, vol.
On July 29, Al Sharpton, a Black activist for civil rights, tweeted: "Arrived in DC from Atlanta, headed to Baltimore.
He linked the conservation of a state religion with the preservation of citizens’ constitutional liberties and highlighted Christianity’s benefits not only to the believer’s soul but also to political arrangements.
Background Not long after the death of Constantine I in 329, the Roman imperial government initiated restrictive measures against Jewish privileges and proselytism.
In September 2012, West donated $1,000 to Barack Obama's re-election campaign, and in August 2015, he donated $2,700 to Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign.
Schudrich praised John Paul II for condemning anti-Semitism as a sin, which no previous pope had done.
Its goal was complete separation of church and state; it declared the opinions of men to be beyond the jurisdiction of the civil magistrate.
While in Washington, DC, he attended Vermont Avenue Christian Church, which is now National City Christian Church.
He expressed his belief that he "probably should make it" to Heaven, affirming that he is "not a perfect candidate, but I did a hell of a lot of good for perfect people." Later that month, he reaffirmed that his prior remarks were in jest, stating, "I was just having fun.
The 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen guaranteed freedom of religion and free exercise of worship, provided that it did not contradict public order.
His guiding principle was the application of the Theodosian Code which should be done strictly and impartially administered.
Some other passages he marked offer glimpses of his devotional practices and reveal distinct tensions in his personality.
He also commented on people who saw religious or spiritual connotations in 2001: It's simply not there, religion and spirituality.
In the same interview, he also blames the poor critical reaction to 2001 as follows: Perhaps there is a certain element of the lumpen literati that is so dogmatically atheist and materialist and Earth-bound that it finds the grandeur of space and the myriad mysteries of cosmic intelligence anathema.
Astonishing, too, that the new pope deliberately abstains from solemn gestures and high-flown rhetoric and speaks in the language of the people.
Ministers at four of the churches Washington often attended wrote that he regularly left services before communion.
His identification with Independence Day implied his selection of the civil calendar, in which AH 1296 lasts from 13 March 1880 to 12 March 1881.
Discourse around Trump's relationship with Judaism in America was revived later in his first presidency.
On the other hand, Ibn Taymiyya has also been regarded by various scholars as "a literalist and reactionary" and as the "thirteenth-century scourge of reason", who saw it as his mission to purify Islam of all inauthentic outgrowths and return to the purity of Muhammad's time.
In a diary entry of 28 December 1939, Goebbels wrote that "the Fuhrer passionately rejects any thought of founding a religion.
Burke's religious thought was grounded in his belief that religion is the foundation of civil society.
When asked by Michel Ciment in an interview if he had a religious upbringing, Kubrick replied: "No, not at all." In Kubrick's interview with Craig McGregor, he said: 2001 would give a little insight into my metaphysical interests...
Two press conferences were held in the US, where both Brian Epstein and Lennon expressed their regret that Lennon's words had been taken out of context and offence taken.
After 2002, Paula White became a close confidante and unofficial pastor to Trump, his family, and his company, as he was interested in her pragmatic and informal approach to faith and devotion.
For instance, during his Table Talks, he references Mechthild of Magdeburg's The Flowing Light of the Godhead, an example of the pre-reformation piety which Luther was immersed in that associate the Devil with excrement.
48–50, and Pius XI's letter to the cardinal archbishops of Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Quebec, and Buenos Aires, pp.
In person Obama has publicly responded to questions regarding his religion on more than one occasion.
As noted in the foreword of The Occult Roots of Nazism by Rohan Butler, Goodrick-Clarke is more cautious in assessing the influence of Lanz von Liebenfels on Hitler than Joachim Fest in his biography of Hitler.
White delivered the invocation prayer at Trump's first inauguration and joined the White House staff in 2019 to work on religious outreach issues.
Kobler's claim was published in The New Judaea, the official periodical of the World Zionist Organization.
In 1912, Mortara had testified in writing that he thought Pius IX should be canonized: "I am firmly convinced, not only by the deposition I have given, but by the entire life of my august protector and father, that the Servant of God Pius IX is a saint.
Jews in Rome were required to live in a ghetto, a separated quarter of the city, and had very limited rights.
The diaries also report that Hitler believed Jesus "also wanted to act against the Jewish world domination.
how this at first sight very attractive conception fails to grasp not only the substance of Christianity but also that of true humanity.
As People's Commissar for Nationalities, Stalin was the cabinet member responsible for minority affairs.
2060 Between the time he wrote his 2060 prediction (about 1704) until his death in 1727, Newton conversed, both first-hand and by correspondence, with other theologians of his time.
They believe, with Asquith, that the poem's "bird of loudest lay" represents the composer William Byrd and that the crow is the Jesuit Henry Garnet.
He also fought his first duel, accusing another lawyer, Waightstill Avery, of impugning his character.
Others, sometimes termed Judaizers, felt that Gentile Christians needed to fully comply with the Mosaic Law.
The original Greek is lost; it is largely through Jerome's Latin and through an Armenian translation unrelated to Jerome that the substance of the original survives.
He argued that opinions of any jurist, including the school founders were not proofs, and decried the prevalent legal approach; wherein the Fuqaha confined themselves to the opinions within their legal school without seeking the Scriptures.
The religious affiliation in the United States Senate reflects the variety of religion in the United States, despite not being in line with the religious affiliation of the general population.
His December 1864 encyclical Quanta cura contained the Syllabus of Errors, an appendix that listed and condemned as heresy 80 propositions, many on political topics, and firmly established his pontificate in opposition to secularism, rationalism, and modernism in all its forms.
Visit to Israel However, amid claims that the Pope was ruining Jewish-Catholic relations, the Israeli ambassador to the Holy See stated that "the climate is good" and said he believed there was "a lot of potential for the cooperation" between the Vatican and Israel.
At Villanova, he took elective courses in Hebrew and Latin, read the writings of Saint Augustine, and discussed the work of theologian Karl Rahner with other students.
Karen Armstrong notes in A History of God that "not all psychoanalysts agreed with Freud's view of God," citing Alfred Adler, who believed God was a projection which had been "helpful to humanity", and C.G.
Historian Nathan Schur in Napoleon and the Holy Land (2006) believes that Napoleon intended the proclamation for propaganda and to build support for his campaign among the Jews in those regions.
He said in 2015 that he still attended Marble Collegiate Church, a congregation of the Reformed Church in America and the United Church of Christ; the church said in a statement to CNN that he "is not an active member"; Peale's son said that he had not seen Trump at the church for "several years".
He's a Palestinian." Trump's remarks were condemned by rights groups as antisemitic and anti-Palestinian.
Legacy Due to Gregory's immense authority, his affirmation of Pauline teaching and the application of Roman law had a significant influence on Catholic policy towards the Jews for the rest of the Middle Ages, though it was often heeded more in principle than in practice.
Along with his wife Olivia, son Dhani and close friends, members of the Radha Krishna Temple were at his bedside when Harrison died in Los Angeles on 29 November 2001.
Additionally, Holmes states that Washington's "dedication to Christianity was clear in his own mind" as to imply that Washington's own religious self-analysis should be deemed at least as noteworthy as that of critics who claim he was unorthodox.
During his time in Peru, Prevost met and appreciated Dominican priest and theologian Gustavo Gutierrez, a pioneer of liberation theology.
The work of the Reformation was endangered by the potential outbreak of religious and social disorder.
Dabney, for example, called it “not only incomprehensible but impossible.” Other beliefs Mary Calvin had a positive view of Mary, but rejected the Roman Catholic veneration of her.
His emphasis on joy (Joy of the Gospel, Rejoice and be glad) "is an antidote to the disenchantment and melancholy of the world today", the joy of "doing good with the aim of reviving the spirit of the church".
Mark Edmundson comments that in writing Moses and Monotheism, Freud, while not abandoning his atheism, perceived for the first time a value in the abstract form of monotheism—the worship of an invisible God, without Jesus or saints—practiced by the Jews.
After the incapacitated Lenin's death on 21 January 1924, the party officially maintained the principle of collective leadership, but Stalin soon outmaneuvered his rivals in the Central Committee's Politburo.
In our daily lives, we try to respect religion, but we don't give preferential treatment." Interviews by Nedra Pickler of the Associated Press found that students of all faiths have been welcome there since before Obama's attendance.
This tax continued during his reign and some historians credit the emperor Julian with abolishing this in 362.
Although suicide is considered sinful in traditional Islamic law, Ibn Taymiyya distinguished between inghimas and suicide, asserting that the former is Martyrdom.
Otzar Hatefillah, quoting Mahzor Vitri, pointedly denies this claim, offering instead Simeon ben Shetach as the probable author.
During a debate of Democratic presidential candidates on January 15, 2008, in Las Vegas, Nevada, the moderator, Brian Williams, asked Obama about the rumor that he was "trying to hide the fact that he is a Muslim".
Fontein, an Anabaptist preacher, in Amsterdam in December of 1774, who related to him that he had visited England in 1738 and had heard several anecdotes about Newton from professors or fellows at Cambridge.
This verse is referring to the fate of those who reject the message of Islam, including both the People of the Scripture (Jews and Christians) and polytheists (those who worship multiple gods).
He called for environmental protection, supporting the installation of solar panels and electric vehicles.
Musk later acknowledged the tweet as a mistake, saying "I handed a loaded gun to those who hate me and to those who are antisemitic and for that I am quite sorry" and described his tweet as very foolish.
"Clarifying divine discourse in early modern science: divinity, physico-theology, and divine metaphysics in Isaac Newton's chymistry." The Seventeenth Century 32.2 (2017): 191-215.
In numerous speeches Catholic teaching is related to various aspects of life, education, medicine, politics, war and peace, the life of saints, Mary, the mother of God, things eternal and temporal.
The World Jewish Congress subsequently praised the visit, calling it a milestone for understanding between Christians and Jews.
This led to a story in The Miami Herald just before the fight disclosing that Ali had joined the Nation of Islam, which nearly caused the bout to be canceled.
It is not our intention to curtail freedom of worship, but rather to ensure that matters of religion and those of the state do not become intertwined.
This is not to say that Johnson was passive in his religious observance; instead, he was an 18th-century evangelical, which, as he defines in his Dictionary, means "Agreeable to gospel; consonant to the Christian law contained in the holy gospel".
." The outside world was not ignorant of these developments, and even the leading members of the Communist Party USA complained about the situation.
(1986), authors compared how the religious press called Christian singer Sheila Walsh "sexy", while labeling "porn queen Madonna 'born again'".
Augustine, the greatest influence on his personal spirituality is the book, The Practice of the Presence of God, by Brother Lawrence, which is about developing an awareness of the presence of God in everyday life and continually conversing with him.
Leo has affirmed the teachings of his predecessors, including social teachings and the climate policy of Pope Francis.
His insistence of using the word of God did not preclude him from using the councils or the Church Fathers in his arguments.
An organised missionary work, Luther added, is no longer necessary, especially since the apostolate and the accompanying vocation to world mission (Matthew 28:18-20) no longer exist.
Russell asserts that, after the Second World War, modern Greek theologians have re-engaged with the Greek Fathers with the help of diaspora theologians and Western patristic scholars.
Calvin's Defensio sanae et orthodoxae doctrinae de sacramentis (A Defense of the Sober and Orthodox Doctrine of the Sacrament) was his response in 1555.
Kendall interpreted Calvin as believing that Christ died for all people, but intercedes only for the elect.
Most historians argue he was prepared to delay conflicts for political reasons and that his intentions were to eventually eliminate Christianity in Germany, or at least reform it to suit a Nazi outlook.
They are dry and formally organized because Johnson did not approve of the emotionally charged rhetoric of 17th century preachers at the pulpit.
During Annie's long illness Darwin had read books by Francis William Newman, a Unitarian evolutionist who called for a new post-Christian synthesis and wrote that "the fretfulness of a child is an infinite evil".
Mauss and Bush found that all references to Joseph Smith supporting the doctrine were made long after his death and seem to be the result of an attempted reconciliation of the contrasting beliefs and policies of Brigham Young and Joseph Smith.
"Isaac Newton, heretic: the strategies of a Nicodemite." British journal for the history of science 32.4 (1999): 381–419.
Persian Gulf War Between 1990 and 1991, a 34-nation coalition led by the United States waged a war against Saddam Hussein's Iraq, which had invaded and annexed Kuwait.
Obama was baptized into the United Church of Christ (UCC) denomination and formally joined it in 1988.
Trump made comments following a 2017 white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that were seen by critics as implying moral equivalence between the white supremacist marchers and those who protested against them as "very fine people".
Post-Beatles After the break-up of the Beatles, Lennon continued to reject religious teaching and organised religions.
However, West denied being the designer and disavowed the effort, tweeting "My eyes are now wide open and now realize I've been used to spread messages I don't believe in.
405–415, ISBN 978-1-4051-4908-2 van Wyhe, John (2008), Charles Darwin: gentleman naturalist: A biographical sketch, Darwin Online External links "Darwin Correspondence Project " Darwin and Religion: an introduction".
Jewish orphans controversy In 2005, Corriere della Sera published a document dated 20 November 1946 on the subject of Jewish children baptized in war-time France.
The idea itself may have originated from Thomas Corbet (1773–1804), an Anglo-Irish Protestant emigree who, as a member of the Society of United Irishmen, was an ally of the Republican regime, engaged in revolutionary activities against the Dublin Castle administration and served in the French Army.
In Women, Body, Illness (2003), Madonna is credited with popularizing Ashtanga Yoga as a way to blend spiritual awareness with body fitness.
Despite testimony of Jefferson's church attendance, there is no evidence that he was ever confirmed or was a communicant.
Governor Lilburn Boggs issued Executive Order 44, ordering the members of the church to leave Missouri or face death.
During this period, he also learned Italian and also participated in the October 1983 protests against the placement of BGM-109G Gryphon missiles at Comiso Airport which occurred across Europe at this time.
Representative Jim McGovern of Massachusetts said, "America's president is a racist and this is the proof.
After Trump won the 2016 presidential election, Dawkins described him as "an unqualified, narcissistic, misogynistic sick joke".
He follows the main body of the chapter with an appendix addressing the articles by York, Crouzel, and Pohlsander, "Philip the Arab and Christianity", and noting the judgments of the scholars who reviewed his draft.
He has also refused to block Russian state media on SpaceX's Starlink satellites in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Some commonplace Christian allusions, involving no physical manifestation of religion, in Quarto editions of the history cycle, were replaced with harmless references to pagan gods when the First Folio appeared.
The Council of Nicaea is the first major attempt by Christians to define orthodoxy for the whole state.
The band was threatened, their records were publicly burned, and some radio stations refused to play their songs.
He begins (at 6.41.1) by describing the pogroms which began a year before Decius's decree of 250; that is, in 249, under Philip.
Encouraged by Rome, Catholic lay people began to participate again in pilgrimages, spiritual retreats, baptisms and confessions and Catholic associations of all kinds.
Newton showed considerable interest in millenarianism, as he wrote about both the Book of Daniel and the Book of Revelation in his Observations Upon the Prophecies.
Following the Letter to the Hebrews, Benedict describes Jesus death, along with the Eucharist, in which the blood of Jesus is offered to the Father, as the perfect realization of the Day of Atonement (cf.
The theology of Pope Benedict XVI, as promulgated during his pontificate, consists mainly of three encyclical letters on love (2005), hope (2007), and "charity in truth" (2009), as well as apostolic documents and various speeches and interviews.
In an interview for The Saturday Evening Post, in August of that year, he stated that the Beatles were "completely anti-Christ.
Tridentine Mass In 2007, Benedict issued Summorum Pontificum which is widely seen as an attempt to heal the rift with the SSPX.
At 7.10.3, Dionysius implies that Alexander Severus (emperor from 222 to 235) and Philip were both openly Christian.
Representative who had recently left the Republican Party, called the statements "racist and disgusting".
The dogma of the bodily assumption of the Virgin Mary was preceded by the 1946 encyclical Deiparae Virginis Mariae, which requested all Catholic bishops to express their opinion on a possible dogmatization.
Herndon, an advocate of Darwin, said Lincoln thought the works of authors like Darwin and Spencer "entirely too heavy for an ordinary mind to digest" but he read and was "interested ...
Francis has additionally reached out to the Pentecostal churches, which some have called "a new and heretofore scarcely imaginable step forward".
His 1971 single "Imagine" suggests that religious belief can be divisive and that an obsessive concern with heaven can prevent us from living fully in the moment.
To observe, as his daughter Svetlana has, that 'Stalin did not like Jews,' does not tell us much, since he 'did not like' any group: His hatreds and suspicions knew no limits; even party members from his native Georgia were not exempt.
Its periodical, today known as New Humanist magazine, was famously seen at the top of his reading pile at the time of his death.
Taylor would be remembered by Darwin as "the Devil's Chaplain", a warning example of an outcast from society who had challenged Christianity and had been imprisoned for blasphemy.
In 1998 he issued "We Remember: A Reflection on the Shoah" which outlined his thinking on the Holocaust.
"Left" refers to the Historical Left (referred to also as Democrats) of Agostino Depretis and Francesco Crispi.
The controversy also attracted attention from outside the Jewish community with German Chancellor Angela Merkel calling on Benedict to issue a "very clear" rejection of Holocaust denial.
Buddhism Critics remembered that in March 1997 Cardinal Ratzinger predicted that Buddhism would, over the coming century, replace Marxism as the main "enemy" of the Catholic Church.
In his seminal 1930 work The Myth of the Twentieth Century, Rosenberg wrote: "We now realize that the central supreme values of the Roman and the Protestant Churches ...
In 2014, Musk described himself politically as "half Democrat, half Republican" and "somewhere in the middle, socially liberal and fiscally conservative".
He mandated a reform of monastic discipline and outlawed century old practices, by which men and women were given eternal vows and forced to stay in the convent or monastery without prior probation periods.
In particular, it was debated as to whether Gentile converts needed to be circumcised or observe the Judean dietary laws.
Rather than force a man's conscience, government should recognize the persuasive force of the gospel." Notes References Barker, Arthur.
"For the first time in mainstream culture", she brought religious symbolism into pop music, said Gail Walker from Belfast Telegraph.
The shrub was accorded the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Merit in 1926, and the Award of Garden Merit in 1993.
It measures 8–18 centimeters (3.1–7.1 inches) in length and 3–5 centimeters (1.2–2.0 inches) in diameter, and contains numerous flat, somewhat round seeds that measure approximately 3 millimeters (0.12 inches) in diameter.
Its usage in reducing heat, boosting energy, and aiding in diuresis was also mentioned in Li Shizhen's Ming dynasty Compendium of Materia Medica.
Paratylenchus projectus is a plant pathogenic nematode infecting several hosts including African violet, soybean, and sunflower.
Distribution and habitat Narcissus calcicola is endemic to Portugal and is found primarily in crevices of limestone outcrops and less frequently in rocky clearings, on the edge of holm oak groves or even under forest cover.
Dracaena pethera, synonym Sansevieria kirkii, also known as the star sansevieria or the snake plant, is a succulent plant native to Tanzania and the surrounding region in East Africa.
During the growing season, spring and summer, Maranta houseplants require moist soil and fertilization every month.
The Hardy Plant Society is a British charity that promotes the cultivation of hardy herbaceous plants.
Hawaiian Polystichum also spread through long-distance dispersal, with two separate dispersal events leading to the three Polystichum now observed in Hawaii.
Iris nectarifera is a species in the genus Iris, it is also in the subgenus of Iris and in the Oncocyclus section.
Pitch pine has a high regenerative ability; if the main trunk is cut or damaged by fire, it can re-sprout using epicormic shoots.
It is native to Mexico and northern Central America, and has been introduced to Cuba and the Dominican Republic.
The fruit is an oblong drupe 8 mm (0.31 in) long, green at first, turning red, then finally black at full maturity, and contains a single seed.
In nature, banana slugs, Ariolimax columbianus, are selective in their diet and were not observed to feed on this plant.
The showy, funnel-shaped flowers are produced in an umbel-shaped inflorescence, colored red, orange or yellow, sometimes with a faint, but very sweet perfume.
External links View a map of herbarium records of this species at the Australasian Virtual Herbarium View observations of this species on iNaturalist See images of this species on Flickriver.com == References ==
Furthermore, growers can clean up plant debris to help remove the bacterium by removing any infected plants.
praecox, it has up to 20 poisonous, strap-like leaves per plant which are arching and are not leathery.
Subspecies There are two subspecies (treated as distinct species by some botanists), intergrading where they meet in northern Turkey at about 36°E longitude: Caucasian fir (Abies nordmanniana subsp.
A thornless shrub with a restrained climbing habit, reaching at most 2 m (7 ft), and with attractive evergreen leaves, it is available from commercial suppliers.
They are in the same family (Melastomataceae) as a native shrub Melastoma affine, which is known as native lasiandra.
Once established it is also quite drought hardy, though it benefits from the occasional deep watering during the summer months.
The leaf blade of the leaves is leathery, 25–75 mm or 1–3 in (and rarely 125 mm or 5 in) long, 2 to 5 millimetres wide, oblong spatulate to lanceolate, obtuse with a pointed base.
They are normally grown in part shade to full sun, in well-draining but moisture retentive soils, rich in humus.
It is occasionally grown as an ornamental tree in warm temperate climates, including New Zealand, the British Isles and California, but is not common in cultivation.
Furthermore, mastic is also essential to myron, the holy oil used for chrismation by the Orthodox Churches.
Uses The wood is hard and heavy, of a yellow/brown colour, ideal for making posts, for woodturning and as fuel.
It is closely related to Juniperus oxycedrus (Prickly Juniper) of the Mediterranean region and Juniperus brevifolia (Azores Juniper) of the Azores.
and Cynoglottis serpentinicola (Rech.f.) Holub) – North Macedonia, northeastern Greece, and Asiatic Turkey == References ==
It has also been extensively interbred with Rosa gigantea to produce Rosa × odorata and by further hybridization the tea roses and hybrid tea roses, and is the source of summer-blooming varieties and those with continuous flowering.
External links Quercus coccinea images from Vanderbilt University Archived 2011-06-06 at the Wayback Machine Interactive Distribution Map of Quercus coccinea Archived 2010-08-24 at the Wayback Machine photo of herbarium specimen at Missouri Botanical Garden, collected in Missouri in 1932
The species is covered with enlarged epidermal cells, called "bladder cells", the main function of which is to reserve water.
Cultivation Carex flacca is cultivated by plant nurseries as an ornamental plant, planted for accent or as a groundcover in gardens and public landscapes.
Cacti form a monophyletic group and apart from one species are native only to the New World, the Americas, but through parallel evolution similar looking plants in completely different families like the Apocynaceae evolved in the Old World.
Its fruits (called areca nuts or betel nuts) are chewed together with slaked lime and betel leaves for their stimulant and narcotic effects.
chinense is often pickled and served as a side dish in Japan and Vietnam to balance the stronger flavor of some other component in a meal.
In Hungary, it is confined to a single locality on Szársomlyó Hill (also known as Harsányi Hill) in the Villány Mountains.
Drimys winteri, also known as Winter's bark, foye and canelo, is a slender species of tree in the family Winteraceae, growing up to 20 m (66 ft) tall.
The name derives from the Greek word: ναρκὰο, narkào (= narcotic) and refers to the pungent and intoxicating smell of the flowers of some species (some argue that the word derives from the Persian word نرگس and is pronounced Nargis, indicating that this plant is intoxicating).
grandis, and other red-flowered species are known to be naturally pollinated by birds such as honeyeaters.
Individual flowers are reddish-purple and are occasionally replaced by bulbils (again making this a potentially invasive species).
It is grown as an ornamental plant for its scented flowers; several cultivars have been selected with flower colour ranging from white to dark blue.
This plant, often referred to as one of the "jewel" Alocasias (along with several other diminutive Alocasia types), became increasingly popular among plant hobbyists between the years 2018 to 2020.
Sesleria autumnalis, commonly known as autumn moor grass, is a species of grass within the family Poaceae.
Iris junonia is a tall growing species, with a slender and stiff stem, or peduncle, that can grow up to between 20 and 65 cm (8 and 26 in) tall.
Holm oak is not officially listed as an invasive species in the United Kingdom but is naturalised, able to naturally regenerate.
It is known as a pioneer species and is often the first tree to vegetate a site after it has been cleared away.
In typical savanna climates with warm wet and dry seasons, such as southern Florida, zoysia grasses grow during the warm-wet summer and are dormant in the drier, cooler winter months.
Although the Eastern Cape blue cycad can reproduce by suckering, more commonly reproduction requires insect pollination.
It is a variable, rhizomatous perennial, growing to 30 cm (12 in) tall and broad, with crowded clumps of evergreen, strikingly-marked oval leaves, each up to 12 cm (5 in) long.
The leaves and the cheese last about the same time, three or four days, and thus fresh leaves are a sign of a fresh cheese, while dried out leaves indicate that the cheese is past its prime.
Under ideal growing conditions, Stromanthe sanguinea will reach 4–6 ft (1.2–1.8 m) tall in about a year after emerging from its rhizome.
Odontonema callistachyum, the purple firespike, is a species of flowering plant in the family Acanthaceae.
Taxonomy The first recorded description of the species is attributed to Giovanni Antonio Scopoli, who referred to it as Phleum autumnale in the second edition of his book, Flora Carniolica, which was published in 1771.
Each plant may bear up to 30, conical, narrow, bell-shaped flowers, up to 0.75 in (1.9 cm) long, ranging in colour from deep purple to greenish brown.
References External links Pacific Island Ecosystems at Risk (PIER): Ruellia brevifolia (in Portuguese) Ruellia brevifolia (Pohl) Ezcurra (Acanthaceae): flowering phenology, pollination biology and reproduction Rev.
Begonia bowerae, the eyelash begonia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Begoniaceae, native to Oaxaca and Chiapas states of Mexico.
Native to northwestern Turkey, including the western Pontic Mountains as well as Uludağ and other mountains southeast of the Sea of Marmara.
Some botanists posit that it may date back to the Riss and Würm glaciations, while others suggest a Tertiary origin, thus rendering it one of the last vestiges of the subtropical vegetation that once dominated the region.
A tree in Lyme, Connecticut, measured in 2012, had a circumference of 18 ft 3 in; 6 m, or an average diameter at breast height of about 5.8 feet (5 ft 10 in; 1.8 m).
The leaves are broad ovate on the lower part of the stem, slender lanceolate on the upper part of the stem.
In northern Haiti, it grows along the tributaries of the Trois Rivières between Gros-Morne and Port-de-Paix, while in the south, it is found along the eastern edge of the Massif de la Hotte, between Miragoâne, Fond-des-Nègres and Fond-des-Blancs.
However, it is now considered that this plant is not indigenous to that island, and the seeds came from cultivated plants in Norfolk Island or Sydney.
In the 1990s there was confusion over this heritage cultivar and an Italian Group cultivar with pale yellow background and orange blobs (correctly called C.
Dracaena bagamoyensis, synonym Sansevieria bagamoyensis, also known as snake plant is a succulent plant native to Kenya and Tanzania.
gastonis-bonnieri have thick green leaves more or less with brownish spots and often form plantlets at leaf tips.
Cultivation A chance seedling, from the garden of Sir Peter Smithers at Vico Morcote in Switzerland, with more vigorous growth and larger flowers has been described as Magnolia "William Watson".
At low elevations near sea level: Commercial production: Australia (Queensland and New South Wales), New Zealand.
It very closely resembles the smaller related species, Dracaena serpenta and the more distichous species Dracaena phillipsiae.
Morphologically it most closely resembles Prunus sargentii but its chloroplast genome is most similar to Prunus serrulata var.
Description It is a coniferous evergreen tree, growing to 15–25 m (rarely to 30 m) in height, forming a wide, dense, conical crown.
The species require high humidity, especially when it is warm, though they are very sensitive to overwatering, where they would wilt or have scab-like bumps on their leaves.
In temperate subtropical regions- Commercial production: It is planted on the highlands of South Africa.
Tulipa linifolia, the flax-leaved tulip or Bokhara tulip, is a species of flowering plant in the tulip genus Tulipa (Clusiana group), family Liliaceae, native to Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, northern Iran and Afghanistan.
Ecology In the 19th century, it was reported as a very common weed of European wheat fields and its seeds were inadvertently included in harvested wheat seed and then resown the following season.
Young plants need shelter from cold winds; however mature specimens are hardy down to −15 °C (5 °F).
Each flower consists of a tubular purple-green to brown-green calyx and four linear or subulate (awl-shaped) red-brown petals, about twice the length of the sepals.
Euphorbia lathyris, the caper spurge or paper spurge, is a species of spurge native to Asia in western China, Kyrgyzstan and Pakistan and introduced elsewhere.
The single palm-like stem produces terminal tufts of strap-shaped, recurved leathery leaves, sometimes hair lock-shaped in the ends, and with occasional panicles of small white flowers once the plant reaches over 10 years of age.
It is native to Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay, but is now naturalized in Florida, Colombia, South Africa, and Mauritius.
In 2011, it was listed on the European Red List of Vascular Plants of the IUCN as 'Data Deficient' (DD).
Description Melica imperfecta is a perennial grass growing up to 1.2 metres (3.9 ft) in maximum height, and is classified as a bunchgrass by lacking rhizomes and corms.
Campanula means "bell-like" referring to the bell-shape of its flowers, while pyramidalis means pyramidal or conical, which refers to its conical shape.
Taxonomy The genus Clematis was first published by Carl Linnaeus in Species Plantarum in 1753, the first species listed being Clematis viticella.
The tree also makes an excellent landscape tree in moist areas, especially along roads and ditches where a good amount of water can be available.
The fruit is used to treat common colds, diabetes, asthma, headaches, diarrhea, and gallstones, while the roots are used as a diuretic.
This event was celebrated nationally on 29 May as Oak Apple Day, which continues to this day in some communities.
The standards are obovate shaped, slightly purple veined, 7–8.5 cm (3–3 in) long and 3.7–4.2 cm (1–2 in) wide.
Nematodes feed on the roots of the infected plants, taking up the virus with them as they do and allowing for the virus to travel between plants.
If the buds do open and yield a yellow-orange color, rather than white, the flower turns brown rather quickly and dies.
It grows in loose sand rather than finer-grained silty or clay-rich soils and does not tolerate water-logging.
Prunus canescens, the gray-leaf cherry (and hoary cherry, although that name is also used for Prunus incana), is a species of cherry native to China, found in Hubei and Sichuan provinces.
Host plants Buddleja – Buddleia, butterfly bush Himantoglossum hircinum – lizard orchid Scrophularia – figworts Verbascum – mulleins References Bibliography Heath, John; A.
Narcissus abcissus blooms in late spring and grows on slopes and high mountain valleys of the Pyrenees along the French-Spanish border.
It allows the plant to receive the proper airflow, which enhances the plant to grow strong and well while also preventing the plant from any potential diseases.
The plant forms dense surface roots and penetrating deep roots that are colonized by beneficial organisms such as mycorrhizal fungi.
This plant is grown as an ornamental, and it has been crossed and bred to develop a wide array of variations.
The needles are in fascicles (bundles) of three, about 6–13 centimetres (2+1⁄4–5 inches) in length, and are stout (over 1 millimetre or 1⁄16 inch broad) and often slightly twisted.
Therefore, the subspecies is considered to be ‘Nationally Critical’ according to the criteria defined by Townsend and colleagues in 2008.
Industrial and practical uses include the plant's potential as a form of biofuel, dye, pest control, plant fertiliser, soap, and as a natural form of lighting or lamp oil (typically kerosene), as well as for leather and tanning.
Iberis sempervirens, the evergreen candytuft or perennial candytuft, is a species of flowering plant in the family Brassicaceae, native to southern Europe.
Guadalupe cypress cones will open without fire, while Tecate cypress cones differ from any other species of California Cypress, in that even once disconnected from the parent tree, they will not open without heat.
Hybridization with Kentucky bluegrass During the 1990s, botanists began experimenting with producing hybrids of Texas bluegrass and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) for use as wintering foraging plant for grazing livestock and as a drought-resistant lawn grass.
Spokane, Washington, known as the "Lilac City", which holds an annual lilac festival and lilac parade.
Conservation status Red oak is not listed in the CITES Appendices, and is considered a least-concern species by the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
The flowers are very pale pink and heavily tessellated with a white throat and prominent yellow anthers.
Toxicity Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), and if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting.
The species name ilex was originally the classical Latin name for the holm oak, but later adopted as a botanical genus name for the hollies.
Pinus coulteri was discovered by Coulter on the mountains of Santa Lucia, near the Mission of San Antonio, at latitude 36°, within sight of the ocean and at an elevation between 3000 and 4000 feet above sea level.
Description It is an evergreen perennial growing to 8 metres (26 ft) in height, with an enormously expanded caudex for storing water.
In Western Asia, stocks were confirmed in Cyprus, Lebanon, the Palestine region, western Syria and western Turkey.
Description Growing to 6 m (20 ft) or more, it is an evergreen woody climber with oval leaves and clusters of pure white, waxy, intensely fragrant tubular flowers.
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory: Centre for Plant Biodiversity Research, Australian Government.
Cultivars The following cultivars have received the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit: 'Kelly's Eye' (pink) 'McDaniel's Cushion' (deep pink) 'Red Wings' (carmine red) See also Phlox stolonifera References Blanchan, Neltje (2002).
Acalypha hispida, the chenille plant, is a flowering shrub which belongs to the family Euphorbiaceae, the subfamily Acalyphinae, and the genus Acalypha.
References External links Media related to Ficus exasperata at Wikimedia Commons Antiarthritic and antioxidant effects of the leaf extract of Ficus exasperata P.
Description Mesembryanthemum crystallinum grows creeping stems, from 20–60 centimetres (8–23+1⁄2 inches) in length.
A virus-free selection was found in the 1950s and was certified and released in 1975 by the University of California as the 'Improved Meyer lemon' – Citrus × meyeri 'Improved'.
Some examples of acceptable substrate amendments for Alocasia (of all types) include perlite, pumice, small to medium orchid bark, coconut coir, coconut chips, sphagnum moss, LECA, or a combination of some or all.
Originally named Plectosphaera banksiae by Harry Swart, it was placed in the genus Phyllachora in 2001.
"The involvement of Narcissus hispanicus Gouan in the origin of Narcissus bujei and of cultivated trumpet daffodils (Amaryllidaceae)".
They are widespread in horticultural cultivation as ornamental trees, planted in gardens and parks around the world.
Branchlets at first downy, but soon become smooth, light yellowish green; later red brown, finally dark brown.
It is native to Japan, the Korean Peninsula, the Ryukyu Islands, and Taiwan, where it is common on rocky slopes and growing up the trunks of trees, especially in laurel forest, a type of cloud forest.
Nothofagus dombeyi, Dombey's beech, coigue, coihue or coigüe (from Mapudungun koywe) is a tree species native to southern Chile and the Andean parts of Argentine Patagonia.
In 1970 Elbert Luther Little published a paper where he argued that it was insufficiently distinct from Cupressus guadalupensis and therefore should be a variety with the name var.
Paeonia officinalis, the common peony, or garden peony, is a species of flowering plant in the family Paeoniaceae, native to mainly mountainous areas of Southern Europe and introduced in Central and Western Europe and North America.
Interns, aides, and other White House workers are often granted clippings of the famous plant which they grow and further distribute to friends and family.
The cultivar was named for the Caerhays estate's gardener, David Ivey, by Edgar Thurston in his book British & foreign trees and shrubs in Cornwall.
The tree is found only in the Santa Ana Mountains of Orange County and in San Diego County within Southern California, and in northern Baja California state of Mexico.
Lilium hansonii, known as Hanson's lily and Japanese Turk's-cap lily, is an East Asian species of plants in the lily family.
Betula maximowicziana, the monarch birch, is a species of birch tree native to the Kuril Islands and northern to central Japan.
The species tends to struggle without irrigation in arid climates such as the American West unless planted directly on or adjacent to a body of water such as a pond or stream.
Colchicum hungaricum, commonly known as the Hungarian crocus, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Colchicum.
In the British Isles it is popular in many parks and estates where it was introduced in the mid-19th century.
The pulchra variety has clearly more marked and partially prostrate leaves, with whitish green, buff-colored or almost reddish spots or irregular bands.
Activities The society aims to inform and encourage the novice gardener, stimulate and enlighten the more knowledgeable, and entertain and enthuse all gardeners bonded by a love for, and an interest in, hardy perennial plants.
The nymphs at their crawler stage may be transported by wind and it is possible that they, or the eggs, are sometimes carried on the legs of birds.
It should be grown in a loose potting soil, rich in organic matter and sand, and must be kept well-watered during the spring and summer.
References External links Data related to Nothofagus obliqua at Wikispecies Media related to Nothofagus obliqua at Wikimedia Commons "Nothofagus obliqua".
Verticordia nitens, commonly known as Christmas Morrison and other names, is a flowering plant in the myrtle family, Myrtaceae and is endemic to the south-west of Western Australia.
Distribution The species occurs naturally in parts of southern and central Africa, including South Africa, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Angola.
Artemisia schmidtiana, common name silver mound, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to Japan but widely cultivated as an ornamental.
The fruit is of low to zero toxicity, but may cause vomiting or diarrhea if consumed unripe or in large quantities.
The plant is also used in spells for prosperity, the flat pods (when ripe and silvery) resembling coins and therefore being seen as symbolising promises of wealth.
The best known cultivars are 'Fosteri', Foster holly, which does not require males to set fruit, and 'Savannah', with very showy red fruit.
It is a climber with large violet-purple blooms, still among the most familiar climbers seen in gardens.
Even Africa, the continent with the most native succulents, does not host many of the plants in its most dry regions.
Taxonomy For a general description of the taxonomic and nomenclature confusion, see Paghat's Garden, especially for the relationship between T.
Distribution and habitat Euonymus alatus′s native distribution extends from northeastern Asia to central China.
It bears 2 in (5.1 cm) long, nodding, tubular bell-shaped flowers that are apple green in colour, with blue anthers.
References External links Data related to Polystichum at Wikispecies Jepson Manual Treatment the Polystichum homepage
It is found at a wide range of elevations, generally in habitats that have limited competition from other plants.
Baja datura – Datura arenicola Black datura – Datura metel Hindu datura – Datura metel Leichhardt's datura – Datura leichhardtii Sacred datura – Datura wrightii Swamp datura – Datura ceratocaula Vizcaíno Desert datura – Datura arenicola Deadnettle – Lamium spp.
An ethanol leaf extract (tincture) has been shown to effectively inhibit the infection of Vero cells by HSV-1, HSV-2 and an ACV-resistant strain of the latter, in vitro.
Nothofagus obliqua, commonly known as Patagonian oak, roble, pellín, roble pellín, and hualle in its early state of growth or roble beech, is a deciduous tree from Chile and Argentina.
Ruellia brevifolia, the tropical wild petunia or red Christmas pride, is an ornamental plant in the family Acanthaceae.
Gallery References ANU Forestry Illawarra plum - Podocarpus elatus Bruneteau, Jean-Paul, Tukka, Real Australian Food, ISBN 0-207-18966-8.
See also Allium tuberosum, also known as garlic chives – Species of onion native to southwestern parts of the Chinese province of Shanxi Pickled onion – Onions pickled in a solution of vinegar or salt References External links Botanical drawing of Allium chinense at Tropicos.org "Allium chinense".
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, then updated on 3 December 2004.
It is cultivated as an ornamental in many countries and naturalized in Venezuela, Mexico, the West Indies, Ascension Island, Sri Lanka, Fiji, the Solomon Islands and the Society Islands.
Its spine-tipped leaves are 12-16mm thick, elliptical (rather than round) in cross-section, and pale to dark green depending on sun exposure.
Horticulture To produce flowers it sometimes is necessary to remove and save for propagation all side rosettes.
Seed manufacturers began marketing the first of these hybrids, often termed "heat-tolerant bluegrasses", in the first decade of the 21st century.
Hibiscus 'Albo Lacinatus' is a cultivar of Hibiscus that was hybridized no later than the late 1700s or early 1800s, making it one of the earliest Hibiscus cultivars.
From spring to early summer, the 1 inch wide, pale pink flowers are borne with yellow stamens in the center.
The plant flowers on the year's new growth, so pruning is best done in early spring, before the plant leafs out.
The eggs hatch into nymphs which crawl away from the mother along the branches to find foliage, where they start to suck sap.
The name is derived from the surname of German horticulturist Georg Arends who was responsible for nearly all hybrid cultivars sold in North America.
Ficus stephanocarpa (also meaning 'crowned fruit') as described by the German botanist Otto Warburg is a synonym.
As host plant American sycamore is the host plant of the sycamore tussock moth, a species that specializes in it, and a major host plant for the drab prominent moth.
A shrub or shrubby tree reaching 12 ft (4 m), it is hardy in USDA zones 3 to 7, and is recommended for borders, loose hedges, and foundations.
It is known to be toxic to Australian native stingless bees, such as Lipotriches (Austronomia) flavoviridis.
Lilium hansonii is named for Peter Hanson (1821–1887), a Danish–born American landscape artist who was an aficionado of tulips and also grew lilies.
The type collection was made from a Banksia integrifolia plant in Lake Tyers, Victoria (Australia) in May, 1986.
References Flora Europaea: Campanula pyramidalis Plants for a Future: Campanula pyramidalis Huxley, A., ed.
Inflorescence The almost sessile, small white flowers are fragrant, which occur from late winter to spring.
Wynter returned in 1580 with a supply of Drimys bark, and for centuries before vitamin C was isolated, "Winter's Bark" was esteemed as a preventive and remedy for scurvy— correctly so, for an infusion of D.
- Sicily, Malta, Albania, Greece, Turkey, Cyprus, Syria, Lebanon, Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco Allium sphaerocephalon subsp.
Friedrich Wilhelm Schultz gave the species its current name, Sesleria autumnalis in his book Archives de Flore.
In Central America and part of Southern Mexico, the flower is extracted in hot water and taken as tea for these medical purposes.
A large shrub or small tree, it is typically found on slopes, canyons, and streambanks at elevations from 500 to 6,000 m (1,600 to 19,700 ft).
The leaves are scale-like, 2–4 mm (0.079–0.157 in) long, blunt tipped (obtuse), green above, and green below with a white stomatal band at the base of each scale-leaf.
The species has been referred to by several heterotypic synonyms, including: Sesleria elongata, Aira alba, and Sesleria argentea var.
Zapata & Smagghe 2010 test the essential oils of bark and leaves and find that both are repellent and usable as a fumigant against Tribolium castaneum.
The colour of the flower comes from the Crozy side, but the petal form is heavily influenced by the thinner and larger C.
Intergeneric hybrid It is closely related to Fremontodendron, sufficiently to produce an intergeneric hybrid ×Chiranthofremontia lenzii Henrickson, which has yellow flowers and a reduced form of the claw.
Besides central and eastern China, Euonymus alatus also appears in Korea, in Japan, and on the island of Sakhalin in Russia.
The cultivars 'Adcock's Dwarf' and 'Bonnie Bergman' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Malus × robusta, called Siberian crab apple along with other members of its genus, is a hybrid species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
Description Cladrastis kentukea is a small to medium-sized deciduous tree typically growing 10–15 metres (33–49 ft) tall, exceptionally to 27 metres (89 ft) tall, with a broad, rounded crown and smooth gray bark.
Succulents can be propagated in a number of ways, with vegetative propagation being the most common.
Viburnum lantana, the wayfarer or wayfaring tree, is a species of Viburnum, native to central, southern and western Europe (north to Yorkshire in England), northwest Africa, and southwestern Asia.
Dracaena spathulata is a species of flowering plant in the family Asparagaceae, native to South Africa (KwaZulu-Natal), Mozambique, Zimbabwe, and Tanzania.
The iris has straight or slightly falcate (sickle-shaped), grey-green, glaucous, and sheathing leaves that can grow up to between 12 and 38 cm (5 and 15 in) long, and between 3 and 5 cm (1 and 2 in) wide.
Zephyranthes robusta, commonly known as the Brazilian copperlily, pink fairy lily or the pink rain lily, is a species of herbaceous flowering bulb in the family Amaryllidaceae.
Habitat Away from its native range, it is widely naturalised in many regions, where it is often considered an invasive weed.
Phlox subulata the creeping phlox, moss phlox, moss pink or mountain phlox, is a species of flowering plant in the family Polemoniaceae, native to the eastern and central United States, and widely cultivated.
The flowers are 8–9 cm (3–4 in) in diameter, they have a dingy-white, whitish, or pale background, which has many spots and dark veining, in black-purple, brown-purple, or brown violet, or brown shades.
Uses Culinary uses The plant is grown for its ornamental appeal but also for the edible oblong purplish fruits.
Scenic viewpoints may be created alongside scenic routes or mountain roads, often as simple turnouts or lay-bys where motorists can pull over onto pavement, gravel, or grass on the right-of-way.
In September 1983, unidentified persons uprooted 88 apple trees that were planted in Raušić near Peć.
During an area scan (i.e., an observation sweeping from left to right), the activity of the individual is coded as sedentary, moderate, or vigorous.
A more recent example of a linear park is the Berlin Mauerpark, which was built on a part of the former Berlin Wall area and its adjacent former death strip.
This southern extension was never built, but construction began on the current PIP in New York on April 1, 1947.
The shield shows a white rose encircled by a golden sun, known heraldically as a 'white rose en soleil' which is really a combination of two distinct badges.
But it turns out that the organ has nothing to do with reproduction: Fritz is a female, and the smaller primate with whom he shares a cage is a male.
It consists of Basalt Island, Bluff Island, Wang Chau, their surrounding islets, and Kam Chung Ngam (金鐘岩) in the southern part of Jin Island.
Shaman Creek is in Mount Edziza Provincial Park, which lies within the traditional territory of the Tahltan First Nation, of the Tahltan people.
In the park there is a limestone statue of the Lion, which was donated in 1886 by the Nijmegen embellishment association.
In this analysis the Coalition found that community outreach and context sensitivity were important characteristics included throughout the documented examples and were weighted considerably in determining the efficiency and effectiveness of examined policies.
The placita (Spanish for "little plaza"), as it is known in the Southwestern United States, is a common feature within the boundaries of the former provincial kingdom of Santa Fe de Nuevo México.
It runs from Helmsley in the west to Scalby Mills on the North Sea coast and measures 48 miles (77 km).
The ticketed shows are largely free or have low admission fees, and educational programming and performances are scheduled for six days a week.
In 1915, the city used some of the money for the acquisition of a piece of land on the north side of Provstevænget.
The first sections complete and open to traffic extended east of US 41 and included the interchanges with then-new I-75, and with mainline SR 120.
Karimpuzha National Park (Malayalam: കരിമ്പുഴ നാഷണൽ പാർക്ക്‌) is a 230 km² proposed National Park located at 11°16′30″N 76°25′25″E in the Nilgiri Hills area of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, in South India, IUCN category: PRO History Madras Forest Act came into force in 1882.
The park is on the site of the Roaring River Estate which belonged to the Beckford family: Peter Beckford, William Beckford.
A portrait of the library's creator Guillaume Favre is part of the Geneva Musée d'Art et d'Histoire collection.
Other possible social benefits that are claimed include decreased crime, from having more eyes on the street, and safe places where children can play and adults relax.
During February and March 1981, the planting was undertaken in Smederevo, Tuzla, Vinkovci, Zelenikovo, Trnje, Bihać, Titograd, Ulcinj, and in several local communities in Slovenia and Timok Valley.
A Legambiente survey report cites historical counts of hundreds of gardens on the island (e.g., 322 in the early 1800s and 421 after Italian unification), while a horticultural study notes that hundreds remain in use in the modern period.
From January 1990 to August 2000, CPSC received reports of 147 deaths of children younger than 15 that involved playground equipment.
The route is named for the Hudson River Palisades, a line of cliffs rising along the western side of the Hudson River.
Parklets have also been created in Mexico in Puebla de Zaragoza during the PueblaDesignFest The first Parklet on the street in London has been installed in July 2015.
Today, the road's racing past can still be seen in the name of the Speedway Terrace Historical District along North Parkway near Watkins Street.
Mimaland was built on a hilly area of 300 acres (120 ha) in Ulu Gombak near Kuala Lumpur, served by an exit to the old Gombak-Bentong road.
Trampling studies have consistently documented that impacts on soil and vegetation occur rapidly with initial use of desire paths.
Many memorial alleys and parks planted during the initiative still stand today as a good example of urban greening.
A portable charcoal grill is usually quite compact and has features that make it easier to transport, making it a popular grill for tailgating.
In July 2003, the Casino became a non-smoking establishment; closure of its smoking lounges followed in May 2006 with the passing of a new provincial law.
Flower Hill Park was formerly owned and operated by Nassau County prior to being purchased by Flower Hill.
It describes a place where there was once a row of tumbledown cottages infested with rats (raton) and dates to the 14th century or earlier, predating the London derivation.
In New South Wales, there are planned marine parks which will stretch along the coastline of the entire state.
Nielsen "wanted New Yorkers to feel delight and excitement around every turn from the moment they set foot here." To accomplish this, the plantings were arranged in specific color patterns.
Musha' lands (مشاع) are agricultural common lands owned jointly by the community and loosely taxed, as defined in the Land Code of 1858.
On June 26, 2009 King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX) named the park "Nagaraphirom", meaning "delightful park for the townspeople".
It is a Geological Conservation Review site, recognised as being nationally important for its south-western lowland heath communities and for transitions from ancient semi-natural woodland through upland heath to blanket mire.
18th century In 1689, William III moved his residence to Kensington Palace on the far side of Hyde Park and had a drive laid out across its southern edge which was known as the King's Private Road.
The initiative was officially launched on 1 April 1981, but planting of 88 trees had already started in some places soon after Tito's funeral.
Harbour The harbour authority is made up of representatives from the civil parish councils of Wembury, Yealmpton, Brixton and "Newton and Noss".
The final report was released in March 2013 along with partners at the UCLA Lewis Center for Regional Policy Studies.
While the Acts provide for subpoenas and inspection of property, there are no provisions governing interrogatories or disclosure of documents.
The Roaring River runs underground, before appearing near to Petersfield, close to the Roaring River Cave, a series of limestone caverns with a small mineral spring inside.
Grass is typically kept short to discourage insect pests and to allow for the enjoyment of picnics and sporting activities.
The largest urban parks system in Australia is the Western Sydney Parklands, which is 5,280 ha (13,000 acres) in size and 27 km (17 mi) in length.
In 1898, Roskilde inherited a large sum of money from the textile manufacturer Otto Henrich Schmeltz.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Structural design Little Island is supported by 132 pot-shaped structures, known as "tulips", which are suspended above the water.
History On 21 December 1948, Basalt Island was the site of the first commercial airliner crash in Hong Kong, in which all 35 people onboard, including five women, one child and seven crew, were killed.
Other related problems are the lack of infrastructure to maintain the conservation units and a series of impasses with indigenous leaders, as seen in the Ilha do Cardoso State Park, Superagüi National Park and Monte Pascoal National Park.
The track was called Route du Roi, French for King's Road, which was eventually corrupted into "Rotten Row".
Attractions Pavilion Construction of the Columbus Bicentennial Pavilion was the signature capital project celebrating Columbus’ bicentennial in 2012.
Shawnee National Forest was created in 1939, and in 1990, the Illinois Wilderness Act set aside seven separate parcels of land within this National Forest as relatively small wilderness areas.
Transport within the park for people lacking mobility and disabled visitors is provided free of charge by Liberty Drives, located at Triangle Carpark.
All profits were donated to the 'Local Welcome Home Fund' for returning soldiers, sailors and airmen.
Funding and management – Concerns were raised that a fourth national park in Wales would reduce the funding to the existing three.
The house of the park could also be hired for private celebrations by both private citizens as well as societies, often to celebrate royal events.
The Reform Tower, also known as the Earl Grey Tower in Stanton Moor, Derbyshire, is a monument to the 1832 Reform Act.
This was done in collaboration with the Singapore Sports Council (SSC) and the Seletar Country Club.
The design for Columbus is exclusive: a one-of-a-kind, white tensile fabric canopy structure with a 40-foot by 60-foot stage and lighting, video, and sound equipment.
Built after the 1755 Lisbon earthquake, the Passeio become an important fixture in the Lisbon landscape in the 19th century and was a meeting point for the upper echelons of Portuguese society.
Columbus Commons is also the summer home of the Columbus Symphony Orchestra and has hosted their summer performance series, Picnic with the Pops, since 2012.
The expansion to the playground contains an explorer dome, which opened on August 1; the village hired playground supplier Komplan for the new equipment's installation.
produced one of the earliest products of mass-produced cast-iron seating in America, an example of which is held by the Smithsonian Institution as inv.
Many Toronto-based festivals began to follow suit, from 1987 until its commercial redevelopment in 2005.
The other seven are Bald Knob Wilderness, Bay Creek Wilderness, Burden Falls Wilderness, Clear Springs Wilderness, Crab Orchard Wilderness, Garden of the Gods, and Lusk Creek Wilderness.
A three-part documentary series on the history of the gardens and Hunte's personal journey was also reportedly in development.
Te Urewera is an area of mostly forested, sparsely populated rugged hill country in the North Island of New Zealand, located inland between the Bay of Plenty and Hawke Bay.
They have also been popularly described as "Arab gardens", although detailed surveys note that the origin attribution is not securely documented.
Major changes began in 1950 with the passage of a new Parks Act, the transferring of responsibilities for parks to the Department of Lands and Forests, and the creation of a new three-person Parks Board.
Fenwick2 today Until 2022, Fenwick2 functioned as a social enterprise community centre offering a range of health and social care services.
In addition to its botanical features, the site retains elements of its colonial past, with stone buildings and structures that date back several centuries.
The term is used more broadly to encompass woodland, moorland, sports grounds, buildings, roads and urban parks.
The station opened on 12 March 2017 with relatively basic facilities and initially serving a limited number of lines.
This list of urban parks by size includes parks at least 404.7 hectares (1,000 acres) or 4 square kilometres (1.5 sq mi) and contained entirely within a locality's municipal or metropolitan boundary.
Biosphere Reserves The Biosphere Reserve is a collection of conservation units established by UNESCO with the aim of promoting more regional actions in the conservation of the different biomes around the world.
From time on, many scenic viewpoints have since become tourist attractions, with numerous vistas inscribed as world heritage-listed natural sites.
References Bibliography TIGER BALM GARDENS A Chinese Billionaire's Fantasy Environments, Judith Brandel & Tina Turbeville, 1998 Aw Boon Haw Foundation ISBN 962 672 052 2
In the US, wall-mounted or curbside mailboxes that are only designed for receiving incoming mail are known as "limited-service" mailboxes, while mailboxes equipped with a mechanism for notifying the postman to collect outgoing mail from the mailbox are known as "full service" mailboxes.
In the early hours of 26 January 2003 about 120 bars and other businesses on this plot of land were demolished.
Etymology The etymology of the word gardening refers to enclosure: it is from Middle English gardin, from Anglo-French gardin, jardin, of Germanic origin; akin to Old High German gard, gart, an enclosure or compound, as in Stuttgart.
Skjaldbreiður (Icelandic pronunciation: [ˈscaltˌpreiːðʏr̥] , "broad shield") is an Icelandic lava shield formed in a huge and quite protracted eruption series from about roughly 9,500 years ago.
Basalt Island or Fo Shek Chau (Chinese: 火石洲; Sidney Lau: Foh2 Sek6 Jau1) is an island of Hong Kong and administratively part of Sai Kung District.
The college, not the town, still owns it and surrounded it with buildings as a sort of collegiate quadrangle in the 1930s, although its origin as a town green remains apparent.
Later Chinese philosophers and historians cited this garden as an example of decadence and bad taste.
In the summer time, an orchestra played here, art performances and various musical concerts were held.
Tiger Balm Gardens are public gardens that existed or continue to exist in three East Asia locations.
Greenprinting is the creation of conservation scenarios that help communities make informed conservation decisions.
Martin quickly becomes aware of the degradation of being a zoo animal, while Fritz is forced to cope with life in a confusing and threatening alien society.
Infrared grills allow users to more easily adjust cooking temperature than charcoal grills, and are usually able to reach higher temperatures than standard gas grills, making them popular for searing items quickly.
According to the official decision, this initiative had "ideological, educational and commemorative character." It was stipulated that 88 trees can be planted wherever there is enough space that is publicly owned.
Name The Agricola Park (Polish: Park Agrykola) is named after the nearby Agrykola Street, which in turn was named after Karol Ludwik Agricola, an engineer who designed it in the 18th century.
Development Concept and creation The season follows the adventures of Finn the Human, a human boy, and his best friend Jake, a dog with magical powers to change shape and grow and shrink at will.
The park, set on a steeply sloping parcel, has no major amenities, and was established for passive recreational uses of the nearby population.
In 1999, the Waitangi Tribunal published a 520-page working paper which analysed the history of the region and concluded that the Crown had never intended to allow Tūhoe self-government.
This support ensures that seed users understand the importance of high quality seed of a UK origin for UK conservation work, as well as providing them with the skills needed to use the seed.
The region is isolated, with State Highway 38 being the only major arterial road crossing it, running from Waiotapu near Rotorua via Murupara to Wairoa.
History In 1850, Socrates Hotchkiss Tryon Sr., pioneer settler, established a donation land claim at the south end of the canyon.
Most of Te Urewera is in the eastern Bay of Plenty Region and northern Hawke's Bay Region, with a small part in the Gisborne District.
''Upper Circum-Bug Lands'') is a planned national park in Ukraine, located in Khmelnytskyi Oblast, in the western part of the country.
Safdie himself warned the city of this new tactic, stating that development projects in Toronto were being approved, then subsequently revised to provide a lower-quality, lower-cost development in place of an approved project.
External links Overview map of Schachten in the Bavarian Forest National Park Information and map of all surviving Schachten at waldberge.de Archived 2014-04-06 at the Wayback Machine
History The earliest written record was in 1850, when it was described in the Plymouth Gazette as a cattle fair.
Viewing points may also be found on hill or mountain tops or on rocky spurs overlooking a valley and reached via a hiking trail.
The Animal Kingdom is filled with artificial sculptures of some animals like flamingos, dinosaurs, Pegasus and many more.
Agricola Park (Polish: Park Agrykola), also known as Agrykola Park, and the North Baths (Polish: Łazienki Północne), is an urban park in the city of Warsaw, located within the district of Downtown, to the north from the Royal Baths Park.
Studies in both the United States and Taiwan have found that picnic table vandalism is most likely to occur when the picnic table has already been vandalized.
Playscapes may also offer a wide range of open-ended play options that allow people to be creative and use their imagination including sand or earth to sculpt and blocks or other materials to build with.
This mountain range, like both the La Sal Range and Henry Mountains in the same part of the Colorado Plateau, is formed about igneous intrusions that are relatively resistant to erosion.
This is a list of protected areas in Kosovo which includes 2 national parks, 11 nature reserves, 99 natural monuments and 3 protected landscapes.
The Old Stone Fort is a prehistoric Native American structure located in Coffee County, Tennessee, in the Southeastern United States.
In 1989, it was decided to cancel the pony classes following an outbreak of Equine flu (these were replaced with terrier races, which have continued ever since).
With a dynamic mix of perennials, shrubs, ornamental grasses, evergreens and annuals, there’s something beautiful to see year-round.
This episode and chapter feature Jean Pierre Polnareff leading the group to Tiger Balm Garden for his confrontation with Mohammed Avdol.
Features The park displays a set of fighter jet, airplane, battle tank, rocket launcher, amphibious tank etc.
On August 11, 2010 fifteen people were injured as a train entered a curve at the park going between 12 and 17 miles per hour (19 and 27 km/h), causing five of the six cars to tip over.
There Karl Friedrich Schinkel and Ludwig Persius built Charlottenhof Palace on the site of a former farm house and Peter Joseph Lenné was commissioned with the garden design.
These forest clearings are especially interesting because they are the only open areas in these huge forests and often have good views.
Reception At the opening of the park, architecture critic Michael Kimmelman wrote for The New York Times that the design concept "is in the theatrical vein of 18th century English garden follies".
It divides into several side valleys and extends in the direction of Belchen (Schwarzwald), via the district of Stohren towards the Schauinsland and via the Münsterhalde towards Badenweiler.
For several hundred years, Provstevænget belonged to the Provost's House (Danish_ Provstegården) and was grazed by cattle.
The volcano summit is at 1,066 m (3,497 ft), and its crater measures roughly 300 m (980 ft) in diameter.
A playground began construction in November 2016 which was completed on May 23, 2017, with the ribbon cutting ceremony being held on June 5, 2017.
Panther Den Wilderness is located in the Lick Creek quadrangle, inside Union County, just below the Williamson County border.
As the result of the denudation process only the base of those mountains were left represented by the solid crystalline type of rock.
The Haw Par Mansion, together with its private garden, is preserved as a museum at the site of the Hong Kong Garden.
Hans Watzlik created a literary monument to another fabled forest herdsman from the Lusen area in his novel Der wilde Eisengrein.
It is situated within Jean-Drapeau Park, an urban park and former grounds of Expo 67, and shares the island with the Gilles Villeneuve racing circuit, the Olympic Basin and an artificial lake with small beach.
The silver mining of the Middle Ages brought Münster, how Münstertal was called back then, great wealth.
Located in a sinkhole-like gully, on land that was once a sugarcane plantation, the garden has developed into one of Barbados's most popular horticultural attractions.
Synopsis In the year 2002, the Berlin Zoo acquires a new specimen: "Fritz", a biped from "Brecht's planet".
The bee museum is known across the borders of Baden and shows the cohabitation of men and bees from the Stone Age to the present.
Pop-Culture References Jojo's Bizarre Adventure - Seen in the fifth episode of Stardust Crusaders (the thirty-first episode of the JoJo's Bizarre Adventure anime) and Chapter 12 of Volume 3 of JoJo's Bizarre Adventure.
After the death of Helen, on 14 October 2022, Fatou became the last surviving gorilla born in the 1950s.
A free 27-minute SOPLAY/SOPARC Introduction, Practice, and Assessment Training DVD is available from Active Living Research.
The project was developed by Columbus Downtown Development Corporation (CDDC) and Capitol South Community Urban Redevelopment Corporation (Capitol South).
The Arc Corner surveyed by Mason and Dixon is also within the park, and is marked by a monument erected in 1892.
As the brook passes through, there are two sets of waterfalls created, with a drop of around 20 metres.
Characteristics The Agricola Park is placed between Baths Route, Hopfera Avenue, Agrykola Street, and the peaks of the Warsaw Escarpment.
Three provincially operated campgrounds, Falcon Creek, Falcon Beach and Falcon Lakeshore, picnic areas, a swimming beach and adjacent public boat launch, several cottage lot divisions and numerous tourist services make the community a favored entrance point to the provincial park.
The park, which stretches from the lighthouse south to Coler Hospital, was designed by landscape architect Nicholas Quennell in 1977 following the lighthouse's decommission.
It was enclosed as a deer park and remained a private hunting ground until James I permitted limited access to gentlefolk, appointing a ranger to take charge.
Craigie and his wife were drowned in Otter Tail Lake in 1872 and after long litigation the mill was torn down.
The Yale of Beaufort The Yale was a mythical beast, supposedly white and covered with gold spots and able to swivel each of its horns independently.
In addition, the design of Renaissance gardens also incorporated elements from Arabic horticultural traditions, often with a Christian reinterpretation.
The parcels of land are distributed so no one is assigned the same parcel for two consecutive periods.
In 2008, the Granite steppes of Buh became of the Seven Natural Wonders of Ukraine and later was nominated as the world wonder candidate.
Widecombe Fair is an annual fair in England, held in the Dartmoor village of Widecombe-in-the-Moor on the second Tuesday of September.
But the Neptune Grotto, finished in 1757 in the eastern part of the park, was used just as little for its intended function as the fountain facilities.
As a result, the area saw a 366 percent increase in weekday bicyclists and 540 percent increase in weekend bicyclists.
La Grange library In the villa La Grange there are some rooms for the rich library with more than 12,000 old books which today are a precious part of the Bibliothèque de Genève.
The width and severity of its surface erosion are often indicators of the traffic level it receives.
After a radical reorganization, the park was given the appearance in 2005 of a quiet, modern city park.
DuPont donated 1,234 acres to Pennsylvania and 528 acres to Delaware to form the bi-state White Clay Creek Preserve.
See also 2021 Russia–United States summit References External links Parc et Villa La Grange Parc de la Grange La Grange.
Pocket parks prevent overdevelopment in dense neighborhoods and vary the form of the built environment with islands of shade, quiet, and privacy, which may otherwise be difficult to find in urban areas.
On 11 December 2019, a Supreme Court decision put the future of some village greens at risk in England and Wales.
This constituted about one fifth of the commons, but the 1925 act did not give this right to commons in essentially rural areas (although some urban districts had remarkably rural extent, such as the Lakes Urban District), which had to wait for the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000.
Near this spot James Craigie of Aberdeen, Scotland, who came to Otter Tail County about 1868 built the first grist mill in the county in 1870.
Open play The park features several other amenities for visitors including a NEOS electronic playground.
The underlying idea is a "protection through usage", so the acceptance and participation of the population in the protection of the cultural landscape and nature is very important.
They judder slowly along ill-made roads, like carts with square wheels, and the beauty of the scenery through which they pass does not entirely distract the passenger's mind from his aching bottom and tired eyes.
The unicorn holds a shield showing the royal arms of Scotland, a lion rampant within a double tressure flory-counter-flory.
Page Street had previously ended at Fairground Street, and the extension completed all parts of the loop except one final part.
Tabular Hills walk The Tabular Hills walk loosely links the two southerly ends of the Cleveland Way National Trail, enabling walkers to walk the complete perimeter of the North York Moors National Park.
Over the centuries, the earthen fill has spilled over the rock layers, giving the walls their current mound-like appearance.
A neighborhood park primarily serves residents within about 1/4 mile of the park, without physical or social barriers to the boundaries.
Beginning in 1528, King Francis I created new gardens at the Château de Fontainebleau, which featured fountains, parterres, a forest of pine trees brought from Provence, and the first artificial grotto in France.
Developmental benefits Playscapes offer a wide range of benefits such as increasing physical activity, fine and gross motor skills & cognitive development.
The design team was made up of construction manager Corna-Kokosing, architects Moody Nolan and landscape architects EDGE Group.
Artifact Creek's watershed covers 42.5 km2 (16.4 sq mi) and is entirely in Mount Edziza Provincial Park.
In 2006, the park was purchased from Nassau County by the Village of Flower Hill – along with the portion of Stonytown Road located within Flower Hill.
Suitable plantings Larger vegetables such as bell peppers or large tomatoes tend to break the vine; smaller peppers such as cayenne peppers and tabasco pepper have lower weight and thus gravity does not stress the vine to breakage.
In the US and Canada, rural curbside mailboxes may be found grouped together at property boundaries or road/driveway intersections, depending upon conditions.
Examples include Ballincollig Regional Park (managed by Cork City Council), Millennium Regional Park (Fingal County Council), and Malahide Demesne Regional Park (also Fingal County Council).
Due to a change in inter-provincial alcohol production regulations, the Molsons plant was closed and abandoned in September 2000.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Latina and Moncloa-Aravaca); 121.1 ha.
The clients took walks in the park, had dinner, listened to a concert, often with a singer as well, watched a performance of some kind, and danced.
Academic Douglas Robillard praised the manner in which Knight illustrated many of his themes, declaring that "Knight shows a prodigality of invention in his tale, capable of sustaining a much longer novel, or even another book".
Using native plants, rolling hills, and many trees, these playscapes may represent a natural place such as a forest.
The music management company Blackhill Enterprises held the first rock concert in Hyde Park on 29 June 1968, attended by 15,000 people.
Traditionally, the park use patterns have been studied by direct observation - either in person or video recording.
South Parkway East becomes East Parkway South once again at its intersection with Airways Boulevard and Spottswood Avenue.
Located on Maharat Road, Phra Borom Maha Ratchawang Subdistrict, Phra Nakhon District behind the Grand Palace between Tha Tian (N8) and Tha Chang Wang Luang Pier (N9).
On the territory of the new garden sports grounds were arranged, a greenhouse was established and an alley of lime trees was planted.
In the Netflix series Bridgerton, season two, episode three, Jack Featherington suggests “Rotten Row, perhaps?” as a place to promenade with a lady he intends to spend time with.
The Granite-steppe lands of Buh (Ukrainian: Регіональний ландшафтний парк «Гранітно-степове Побужжя») is a regional landscape park in the north-west of Mykolaiv Oblast in Ukraine.
National Park Rangers in particular, all park rangers share a common uniform regardless of work assignment.
and is sometimes considered as a separate southern part of the Oddnýjarhnjúkur-Langjökull volcanic system which it is usually classified as being within.
They increase participation rates and decrease absenteeism, decrease bullying, decrease injury rates, increase focus and attention span and help with social skills in schools.
Personalities Hans Karl Abel (1876–1951), author, died in Mühlbach Willibald Strohmeyer (1877–1945), Catholic priest, was murdered in Münstertal at the end of the Second World War.
The slopes of the valley retained the parts of the rocky (petrofit) steppe and leftovers of the grass-rich of the Gramineae- type and shrub-rich steppes.
Additionally, many public squares were created in towns and cities across the UK as part of urban redevelopment following the Blitz.
A plaque on the wall of the Fenwick2 building reads that George Fenwick constructed the hospital "to the Glory of God and for the suffering poor of Lyndhurst and neighbourhood".
Turnerville quickly became one of the state's most popular attractions, but it was plagued by damage from adjacent Turkey Creek flooding and a fire burned down the Indian pueblo in 1935.
Landscape architects and designers are increasingly using the term to refer to areas of cities that encourage interaction and enjoyment for all ages.
They have also shaped the outdoor educational profession in other ways: in 1983, at a meeting of the Association of Experiential Education, women educators met around a picnic table at midnight to discuss the problems facing women in the field of outdoor education.
Though charcoal grills can sometimes require new cooking grids and charcoal grates, gas grills are much more complex, and require additional components such as burners, valves, and heat shields.
Neighborhood parks are largely accessible by foot, bicycle, or public transit within at least a quarter-mile radius from residences, providing easy access especially for children and senior adults.
Decision The court held that, since other acts, such as the Tariff Act of 1930, specifically excluded aircraft in their definitions of a vehicle, the law must be interpreted narrowly.
Aftermath and recovery efforts This hack was notable as it was the largest successful breach of security for a major American city by ransomware, potentially affecting up to 6 million people.
It was later found that Mukonyi was in fear of being followed, and was trying to kill those whom he deemed to be a threat, in this case the passengers and crew on the flight.
CAPPS screening selected passengers for additional screening of their checked baggage for explosives.
Structure The institution is controlled by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action.
In 1978, after prodigious diplomatic efforts, NATO had convinced the Warsaw Pact states to sign an international convention on hijacking, in which each signatory state promised to punish hijackers who landed in their territory.
Surface emitters When an ultra-short (100 femtoseconds or shorter) optical pulse illuminates a semiconductor and its wavelength (energy) is above the energy band-gap of the material, it photogenerates mobile carriers.
In addition, Canada's access to information system revealed that the US "Tuscan" (Tipoff US/Canada) database is provided to every Canadian border guard and immigration officer; they have the power to detain, interrogate, arrest and deny entry to anyone listed on it.
At the time, 117 officers were on duty at the airport: 9 carabinieri, 46 customs officers and 62 State Police officers, of which 8 were employed in the anti-sabotage service, a negligible number for an intercontinental airport like Fiumicino.
Colombian Defence Minister Diego Molano denounced the incident as a terrorist attack by left-wing guerillas based in Venezuela.
The attack was also linked to the recent sentencing in Spain of two Shiites to 23 years in prison for the attack on a Libyan diplomat the previous year.
See also Toluene Dinitrotoluene Nitrobenzene Trinitrotoluene References External links CDC - NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards - m-Nitrotoluene CDC - NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards - o-Nitrotoluene CDC - NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards - p-Nitrotoluene
The Kuwaiti authorities, after questioning the terrorists, decided not to put them on trial and considered the possibility of handing them over.
Timeline of the case On 6 February 2000, a group of nine Afghan men led by brothers Ali Safi and Mohammed Safi fleeing the Taliban regime hijacked Ariana Afghan Airlines flight 805 a Boeing 727 aircraft registration YA-FAY with 180 passengers and seven crew.
The "time served" sentence, writes Stern, was the only method by which he could protect Tiede from the State Department.
Structure and capacity Avianca has its own lounge with different services such as Wi-Fi, different environments, satellite television, bar meals, air conditioning and various entertainment materials.
The Protocol makes it an offence to commit similarly violent, dangerous, or damaging acts in airports that serve civil aviation.
With a total of 270 people killed, it is the deadliest terror attack in the history of the United Kingdom.
On 1 July 1994, a Fokker F28 was lost in an accident while landing at Tidjikja Airport during a sandstorm.
Pilots and flight attendants are advised of their presence, and the officer is authorized to physically intervene should an unauthorized person attempt to gain control of an aircraft.
The convention does not apply to customs, law enforcement or military aircraft, thus it applies exclusively to civilian aircraft.
The APS can undertake initial response to all criminal offences under the Airports and Aviation Acts 1936 to 2004, airport byelaws and other legislation within the airport.
Two Ilyushin Il-18s were bought in 1969, with the Soviets providing training and technical assistance; these aircraft were flown to Dakar, Nouadhibou and Las Palmas.
This case is widely regarded as a strong example of the use of the canon of ejusdem generis ("of the same kind, class, or nature").
Shortly thereafter, the TSA announced a successor program, called Secure Flight, that would work in a way similar to CAPPS II.
{\displaystyle v_{\text{d}}=KE.} After making the necessary adjustments to account for the n0 standard gas density, ion mobilities are often expressed as reduced mobilities.
A chance remark by a passing airman brings up the topic of Hugh Conway, a British consul in Afghanistan, who disappeared under odd circumstances.
GC columns operated in the field are prone to degradation from atmospheric gases and oxidation, as well as bleeding of the stationary phase.
Lost Horizon became a huge popular success and in 1939 was published in paperback form, as Pocket Book #1, making it the first "mass-market" paperback.
Towards assessing best practice, the US Coastguard reviewed the system and wrote a brief summary report in 2006.
The serum's effect wears off, and Rastapopoulos escapes; Krollspell, eager to stay alive, continues to accompany Tintin and Haddock.
Defense Minister Moshe Dayan and Transport Minister Shimon Peres, who would become Prime Minister and later President of Israel, conducted negotiations with the hijackers while preparing a rescue operation, code-named "Operation Isotope".
Now that the sensors know what point to scan, the mission specific hardware, software, and firmware components installed in the ASTAMIDS can successfully detect mines buried under the surface.
Aviation Security Officers were fully integrated into the airport's staff structure, so that (unusually) the airport security had no management grades with sworn constables carrying out the duties of their office on the ground, but reporting to managers who shared their security powers.
Hemus Air Flight 7081 was the hijacking of a Tupolev Tu-154 operated by Hemus Air on 3 September 1996.
The Salvadoran government criticized the group for not letting the trial happen at a government tribunal.
Terahertz radiation can thus be manipulated spatially using optical components such as metal-coated mirrors as well as lenses made from materials that are transparent at THz wavelengths.
Since no state claimed authority to try him, Wong was released without trial from Macao Central Prison on 11 June 1951, and was then deported to China.
The Selectee list has been cited by civil liberties groups to be infringing on privacy rights and potential for racial and ethnic discrimination.
In May 2023, the RCMP is given more funding to establish more close protection units for politicians, depending on risk assessment.
Members of the Airport Police are required to transfer custody of their prisoners over to the Garda Síochána for investigation and if warranted, to be prosecuted by the Director of Public Prosecutions.
The nationalities of 30 other passengers and the nine crew members were not immediately known at the time.
He was brought to court by the Macau police, but the Macau court suggested that the prosecution should be brought in Hong Kong instead, since the plane was registered in Hong Kong and most of the passengers were from there.
In the test nitration of anhydrous glycol (100g) with 625g of mixed acid HNO3 40% & H2SO4 60% at 10-12°, the yield was 222g and it dropped to 218g when the temp was raised to 29-30°.
Cúcuta Airport at OurAirports Aeronautical chart and airport information for Camilo Daza - Cucuta Airport at SkyVector "Current weather for Cucuta / Camilo Daza".
The Tupolev Tu-154 aircraft was a wet lease flight operated by Balkan Bulgarian Airlines for Hemus Air; it had 150 passengers and 8 crew members.
He also noted that the scene of the extraterrestrial spacecraft bore similarities with the depiction of the alien ship in the 1977 film Close Encounters of the Third Kind, highlighting that the film's director, Steven Spielberg, was a known fan of The Adventures of Tintin.
TIMS operates in the pressure range of 2 to 5 hPa and replaces the ion funnel found in the source region of modern mass spectrometers.
By March 1975 (1975-03), the government of Mauritania was the major shareholder of the company (60%), with the balance evenly split between Air Afrique and UTA.
However, in December 2006 (2006-12), the government of Mauritania created another carrier, Mauritania Airways, with the aid of private Mauritanian investors and Tunisair, which became the major shareholder (51%) of the newly created airline.
CAPPS has been demonstrated to reduce the effectiveness of searching below that of random searches, since terrorists can test the system and use those who are searched least often for their operations.
Despite Wehelie's offer to FBI agents to allow them to accompany him on the plane, while shackled, he was not permitted to fly.
Police vehicles may contain a variety of equipment, which can include traffic cones, road signs, defibrillators, traffic speed guns and the like.
The radio operator and the flight mechanic had been killed and a steward knifed and shot by the hijackers.
The Fido explosives detector provides near real-time, almost instantaneous analysis of the sampled air by registering the intensity of the photomultiplier tubes, which is inversely proportional to the mass of analyte that binds to the polymer films.
They included 17 Americans (plus a baby), 13 Japanese, four Italians, four French, three Indians, two Iranians, two Israelis, two Sri Lankans, an Australian and a Canadian.
Target acquisition minefield detection system (also known as the "Airborne standoff minefield detection system", or ASTAMIDS) is a bomb-detection system engineered to detect improvised explosive devices (IED).
The incident occurred on-route from Beirut International Airport in Lebanon to Varna Airport in Bulgaria.
Army in 2005, and the Packbot robotic platform with the integrated Fido explosives detector received the same award in 2006.
Following the September 11th attacks, which resulted in the creation of the TSA, the NEDCTP was transferred from the FAA to the TSA and was completed by March 2003.
They hoped this new system would reduce the number of people accidentally being matched to a watch list.
The APD was formed as the Airport Police Division on 1 November 1970 when the Singapore Police Force took on responsibility for airport security at Paya Lebar Airport.
The size and contents of the list fluctuates and is a secret, although the Transportation Security Administration has stated there are tens of thousands of names on it.
After boarding the three liberated men, the plane was redirected to Tripoli, Libya where all hostages were finally released.
Creation and entry into force The convention was adopted by the International Conference on Air Law at The Hague on 16 December 1970.
Pat-downs of fans entering arenas for National Football League and metal detectors at Major League Baseball games have also been criticized as security theater.
However, a spokesman for TWA said sabotage was "highly unlikely." Later, the National Transportation Safety Board determined that the plane was indeed destroyed by a bomb hidden in the cargo hold, which caused structural failure resulting in uncontrollable flight.
The series is created by Jason George who is also credited as an executive producer of the series alongside, D.J.
Having completed aviation security training they were sworn in by an Isle of Man Commissioner of Oaths as aviation security officers and received warrant cards as sworn constables, assuming the title of Aviation Security Officer.
Cybersecurity firm RiskIQ, among others, linked the attack to the web-skimming group known as Magecart.
TSA published the Secure Flight Final Rule on October 28, 2008, which went into effect on December 29, 2008, creating the Secure Flight program.
Organisation The Aviation Security Service was established as a result of the addition of Annex 17 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation which required that passengers and baggage be screened for weapons.
The breach was a high-profile test of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for a major airline.
The statement said that the breach had been resolved, the website was operating functionally, and that British Airways had notified the police and relevant authorities and was contacting affected customers.
In June 2018, it was estimated that a third of the software programs used by the city remained offline or partially disabled.
This not only applies to the extremely specific measures, but can also involve possible tactics such as switching from using highly scrutinized airline passengers as attackers to getting attackers employed as airline or airport staff.
Dr Richard Browne, director of the National Cyber Security Centre, said "We have all of the technical details from the incident, and we know, or we believe we know, who the actual group is.
Kevin Hart makes a cameo appearance as federal air marshal Dinkley in the 2019 action comedy Hobbs and Shaw starring Dwayne Johnson and Jason Statham.
With this technique, it is possible to boost the generated frequencies to 40 THz (7.5 μm) or higher, although 2 THz (150 μm) is more commonly used since it requires less complex optical setups.
CTX-5500DS The CTX-5500DS is an automated explosives detection system that uses computed tomography to characterize materials in checked bags and automatically identify objects that could be improvised explosive devices.
The Guardian has been under development since 2001 but was introduced commercially after Entry Scan and The Sentinel.
The hostages were flown to Cyprus and then to Rome's Leonardo da Vinci Airport, where on 28 September they met President Nixon, who was conducting a State visit to Italy and the Vatican.
One hour later, a suitcase exploded again on the runway, resulting in the deaths of two police officers.
See also Full body scanner Millimeter wave scanner Backscatter X-ray Explosives trace detector == References ==
Salla's girlfriend is employed at the airline's Delhi office, and he hoped the closure would make her return to Mumbai.
Canines and training The TSA sources their canines from the Department of Defense Military Working Dog program.
The Fido explosives detector is considered the first artificial nose capable of detecting landmines in the real world.
Air India Limited split its engineering and cargo businesses into two separate subsidiaries, Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL) and Air India Transport Services Limited (AITSL) in 2013.
The book was adapted into a film, also called Lost Horizon, in 1937 by director Frank Capra; and a musical film remake in 1973 by producer Ross Hunter with music by Burt Bacharach.
On February 18, 2023, it was reported that the searches for the Alaska, Yukon and Lake Huron objects had all been abandoned.
However, the airline shut down the Frankfurt hub on 30 October 2010 because of high operating costs.
History Airlines previously pre-screened passengers using CAPPS by comparing names to government watch lists and communicating with law enforcement (and later TSA) about suspected passengers.
The Skies Belong to Us: Love and Terror in the Golden Age of Hijacking is a 2013 narrative nonfiction book by the American author Brendan I.
Kennedy ordered federal law enforcement officers to be deployed to act as security officers on certain high-risk flights.
The male hijacker turned around, pointing a nickel-plated .38 revolver and a hand grenade at Swinkles and yelled "Get back!
Constitution The Canadian Air Transport Security Authority was officially formed on April 1, 2002, following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 at the United States.
Despite no suspects being identified or indicted until November 2018, the SamSam hackers were described as "opportunistic".
The device was invented by clinical pharmacist Jacques Bauer and former scientist Ilija Lakicevic and marketed by alternative medicine activist Sacha Stone.
The accounts allowed the attacker to access only a limited set of applications and data within a virtual environment provided by the Citrix platform, which British Airways used to let staff and partners run internal applications over the internet.
The ICO said "People have a right to expect that organisations will handle their personal information securely and responsibly.
The Republic of China signed and ratified the agreement; in 1980, the People's Republic of China approved the treaty with a statement that it declared the Republic of China's actions with respect to the convention "null and void".
Applicants may also choose to have an image of their iris taken if they wish to use an iris image as an alternative to a fingerprint scan at the security checkpoint.
The Secure Flight program was introduced in August 2007, which proposed requiring airlines to send passenger information to the TSA for comparison against watch lists.
AAP in a special drive freed the occupied car parking which enhanced the beauty of the airport as well as reduced the chance of the middlemen to harass passengers and visitors.
CTX-2500 The CTX-2500 is a small-sized explosives detection system that is half the length of earlier CTX models.
Creation and entry into force The convention was adopted by the International Conference on Air Law at Montreal on 23 September 1971.
British Airways Flight 2069 was a scheduled passenger flight operated by British Airways between Gatwick Airport, England and Jomo Kenyatta Airport, Nairobi, Kenya.
Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, Congress passed the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (Pub.
The Director General, BCAS is responsible for the development, implementation and maintenance of the National Civil Aviation Security Programme.
Systems similar to SIDA identification card system exists in Australia (known as Aviation Security Identification Card or ASIC) and in Canada (known as Restricted Area Identity Card or RAIC).
Brown, 2007–2011 Chief Gary McLhinney, 2003–2007 Chief Larry Harmel, 1997–2003 Chief Edward Hechmer, 1982–1997 Acting Commander Lionel Foote, 1981–1982 Major Walter Wallace, 1977–1981 Captain John J.
So this is the wholesaler or the reseller of the malware, we don't know who actually conducted the incident." He also said "This will be an affiliate, basically a customer of the ransomware family and they will go out and actually conduct the incident.
Unfortunately, Bermuda was still feeling the effects of the recession of the early 1990s, and this had led to a reduction in the manpower of the Bermuda Police Service.
Conspiracy theorists have claimed that the technology has been secretly fitted to some commercial airliners.
In October 2006, CBS News' 60 Minutes reported on the program after it obtained a March 2006 copy of the list containing 44,000 names.
After the refusal of the two detainees to join the commando, they limited their demands to just refuel and leave.
The Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing (German: Bundesanstalt für Materialforschung und -prüfung), or BAM, is a German research institute in the field of materials science.
The Ethicist – Watch Yourself EPIC: Documents Show Errors in TSA's "No Fly" and "Selectee" Watch Lists
Steven Smith, inventor of the body scanner in 1991, stated that the concerns of Brenner and UCSF regarding the skin dose of backscatter scanners is incorrect and the result of a confusion between dose and imaging penetration.
North American sightings After the sightings of a Chinese balloon in 2023 (later shot down off the coast of South Carolina), the U.S.
Similarly, the Chicago Transit Authority police's deployment of random explosive-residue-swabbing checkpoints at public transit stations has been criticized as an ineffective means of security.
It also required that aviation security be maintained through patrols of operational security areas and having trained officers available to respond to breaches of aviation security.
GC–MS has been regarded as a "gold standard" for forensic substance identification because it is used to perform a 100% specific test, which positively identifies the presence of a particular substance.
Safety concerns, including the possibility that such a system could be hacked, have prevented its roll-out.
This renovation improved the air terminal infrastructure, provided a more contemporary design, and made air traffic safer with a powerful light at night.
The output of the sensor is characteristic of the ion mobility distribution and can be used for detection and identification purposes.
Its competences are to improve safety in technology and chemistry through research and development, testing, analysis, approvals, advice, and information.
Six hostages were kept because they were men and American citizens, not necessarily Jews: Robert Norman Schwartz, a U.S.
Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said "these hijackers committed serious crimes which should make them incompatible with refugee status" and argued that the problem was of the Labour government's "own creation" due to their introduction of the Human Rights Act 1998.
2021 attack At around 5:00 A.M., on December 14, 2021, explosive substances being carried by a man trying to climb an airport fence detonated.
Ahead of the series release, Tatlıtuğ appeared as Arman in an episode of the second season of Into the Night, revealing the in-development series to be a spin-off of Into the Night, set concurrently with the first two seasons and titled Yakamoz S-245.
It is designed for use by first responders, homeland security, law enforcers and forensic chemistry personnel for immediate identification of unknown solids, liquids, and mixtures.
The plane heads west in an attempt to survive this catastrophe that kills all living organisms during daylight hours.
Privacy TSA has stated it will not collect or use "commercial data" to conduct Secure Flight watch list matching.
From 1995 to 1997, the CTX-5000 was tested to solve the challenges involved in integrating an explosives detection system into a baggage system and to validate the estimated costs of wide-scale deployment of the systems.
It is responsible for owning, developing and operating several public airports and one public heliport located in and around Indianapolis, a city in Marion County and the capital of Indiana.
The Ministry of Justice decided on 28 April 1999 to return him to Lebanon, but this was not possible on 12 July, when he was released from prison.
The no-fly list is compiled and maintained by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) based on inputs from airlines.
The ACI-NA's members enplane more than 95 percent of the domestic and virtually all the international airline passenger and cargo traffic in North America.
Examples given included, for instance, the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the Oklahoma City and the Omagh bombings.
Airlines and destinations See also Transport in Colombia List of airports in Colombia References External links "Airport information for Camilo Daza International Airport" – via Great Circle Mapper.
Thereafter, officers are eligible for assignment to any of the Maryland Transportation Authority Police detachments located throughout Maryland.
Fikre that a complaint about being put on the No Fly List is not moot simply because the government later took the plaintiff off the List.
EasyJet said they had gone public to notify the nine million customers whose email addresses had been accessed to beware of phishing attacks and that it would notify everybody by 26 May.
It is similar to nitroglycerine in both manufacture and properties, though it is more volatile and less viscous.
See also List of law enforcement agencies in Maryland References External links The Maryland Transportation Authority Police Website The Maryland Transportation Authority Website Fraternal Order of Police Lodge #34, Maryland Transportation Authority Police
Officers holding the rank of inspector or above also wear peaked caps but with slight differences to denote their senior role.
Ethylene glycol dinitrate, abbreviated EGDN and NGC, also known as Nitroglycol, is a colorless, oily, explosive liquid obtained by nitrating ethylene glycol.
Gallery See also List of accidents and incidents involving commercial aircraft List of aircraft hijackings List of terrorist incidents Terrorism in Europe References Sources Death in Rome Aboard Flight 110, TIME, 31 December 1973.
The hijackers drove a van that had been modified to look like an airport security vehicle, fitted with a siren and flashing lights.
They provide music for official Airport functions (such as graduation ceremonies at the Airport Police and Airport Fire & Rescue Service) the band undertakes a community-oriented programme each year performing at schools, festivals and charity events.
A constable gave evidence that in his opinion officers were being deliberately victimised and targeted because they had stood up to bullying by the named ADO.
In 2011, the TSA began to use the entire Terrorist Screening Database instead of being limited to the No Fly List or Selectee List.
Nawaf al-Hazmi and Salem al-Hazmi were selected because they did not provide adequate identification, and had their checked bags held until they boarded the aircraft.
Security screening Avsec undertakes pre-boarding security screening of passengers (and their carry-on baggage) travelling on all international flights as well as domestic flights that operate using aircraft with seats for 90 or more passengers.
Specifications Performance The Fido explosives detector can collect samples using one of three methods.
2010 Protocol In 2010 in Beijing, the Protocol Supplementary to the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft was adopted.
Wail al-Shehri and Satam al-Suqami were selected for extra screening of their checked bags before they boarded American Airlines Flight 11 at Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts.
Ranks The following are the rank insignias used by CATSA Screening Officers: Controversy CATSA has been implicated by the Privacy Commissioner of Canada for collecting non-aviation security information from the travelling public.
In the United States, the raid’s coincidence with the American bicentennial sparked the "Entebbe Derby," a dramatic surge in media attention, books, films, and television portrayals.
The hijackers held a few passengers and flight attendants hostage, but surrendered five hours later.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan granted approval to Alclear to purchase Clear after it outbid Henry Inc.
In the second season, the remaining survivors secure their path to a NATO bunker in Bulgaria, where they seek refuge from the deadly rays of the Sun.
1990s March 8, 1996 – A Boeing 727 of Cyprus Turkish Airlines on a flight from Nicosia to Istanbul was hijacked by Ramazan Aydın to Munich, West Germany.
After completing a background check, being fingerprinted, and paying a $78 fee, travelers receive a Known Traveler Number (KTN).
Its Dynamic Screening (DS) capability offers flexibility by allowing manual or automatic switching between various screening modes.
The force also operates an emergency phone line for members of the public to contact them on, along with state-of-the-art police control rooms for the management and co-ordination of the airport's security operations and incident response.
Mononitrotoluene or nitrotoluene (MNT or NT), is any of three organic compounds with the formula C6H4(CH3)(NO2).
When the amount of information collected about the ions in a given gas chromatographic peak decreases, the sensitivity of the analysis increases.
Security measures - Substantial security measures are in place to protect CAPPS II or Secure Flight or other follow-on/successor programs from unauthorized access by hackers or other intruders.
They told the BBC that they were only able to notify customers whose details (credit card or email addresses) were stolen in April 2020.
The TSA refused to allow him to pass without this search and so he declined to travel and got a refund on his ticket.
The APD also administers the National Civil Aviation Security Programme, National Civil Aviation Security Training Programme, and National Civil Aviation Security Quality Control Programme.
The two hijackers bumped from the El Al flight boarded and hijacked this flight as a target of opportunity.
Kuwaiti authorities tried to deport him to the U.S., but the airline denied him boarding, presumably because he was on the U.S.
DHL mentions its use, and in 'Air Cargo World' it is described as a specifically UK and European approach to security.
Border Patrol at Port Isabel, Texas, and later went through recurrent yearly training in Brownsville, Texas.
Spin-off In October 2020, Netflix announced their upcoming Turkish slate to include a submarine-set limited series, described as a "fast-paced action adventure story", starring Kıvanç Tatlıtuğ, directed by Tolga Karaçelik, and written by Atasay Koç, Cansu Çoban, Sami Berat Marçalı and Jason George.
This disconnected the autopilot and resulted in a struggle between himself and Watson, causing the aircraft to climb sharply and stall from 42,000 feet (13,000 m), falling towards the ground at 30,000 feet (9,100 m) per minute.
A launch party for the publication of the book was held in Paris in May 1968, but was overshadowed by that month's student demonstrations and civil unrest.
He was particularly influenced by Robert Charroux's Le Livre des Secrets Trahis ("The Book of Betrayed Secrets"), which expounded the idea that extraterrestrials had influenced humanity during prehistory.
Several of these incidents had long-term geopolitical consequences, such as the Dawson's Field hijackings of 1970, which prompted international crackdowns on air piracy, and the Entebbe hijacking of 1976, which led to a military rescue operation by Israeli forces.
Premise Sam, a talented business negotiator, must use his skills to broker a peaceful end to a hijacking of a seven-hour flight from Dubai to London.
August 4, 1982: An Indian Airlines flight from Delhi to Amritsar was hijacked en-route by a Sikh militant with the help of a fake bomb.
Prior to the airport being opened to the public, the unit conducted anti-terrorist exercises in the facility.
In order to be effective, this practice must assume that 1) the ticket was bought under the passenger's real name (at which point the name was recorded and checked against the No Fly List), 2) the boarding pass shown is real, and 3) the ID shown is real.
The hijackers forced the crew to fly to Stansted Airport in Essex, England after stopovers in Tashkent, Aktobe and Moscow.
The final report of the National Commission on the Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States recommended that this watch list matching function be performed by the TSA instead of airlines.
Aircraft and crew Boeing 707-331B N8734 had its maiden flight in March 1969, and was purchased by Irving Trust Corporation before it was leased to TWA on April 7, 1969.
Nationalities on Flight 775 Hostage accounts Unnamed passengers later recounted their days as hostages.
According to reports, there is evidence that the polymers can amplify the quenching of the fluorescence reactions between 100- and 1000-fold compared to conventional quenching mechanisms.
In particular, the judgeship of the United States Court for Berlin was vacant except during the trial over which Judge Stern presided.
Furthermore, he is the author of scientific-research letters in literary criticism and historiography.
Among the alterations made to the story by translators Leslie-Lonsdale Cooper and Michael Turner were shifting Carreidas' birth from 1899 to 1906, and changing the location of Krollspell's medical clinic from New Delhi to Cairo.
Provincial counterparts Many provinces have a similar organization that is responsible for the protection of the provincial Lieutenant-Governor, the Premier, other members of the provincial cabinet, and members of the judiciary.
Unlike the no-fly list, which only applies to airports, Tuscan is used for every Canadian land and sea border, and visa and immigration application.
These scanners were first introduced at Auckland for international flights in June 2019 and at Dunedin for domestic flights in August 2019.
Functions Avsec's primary activities involve security screening as well as maintaining the security of restricted areas through patrols and an Airport Identity Card system.
Landing in Sofia, the hijackers handed over the airplane to the Bulgarian authorities and applied for political asylum.
As the Bermuda Police Service attempted to redirect its efforts to more traditional 'community policing', which required a greater manpower, it found itself short of constabulary.
By following a stream, she eventually found shelter in a hut of local hunters and woodcutters, who found her and took her by canoe back to civilisation.
Pain: The patient makes a response on any of the three component measures on the application of pain stimulus, such as a central pain stimulus like a sternal rub or a peripheral stimulus such as squeezing the fingers.
Survival trainings are mostly held in forests, mountain ranges and hilly areas, such as the Alps and Scandinavia.
Several years later, the Norwegian Captain Roald Amundsen and the Englishman Captain Robert Scott raced to become the first to reach the South Pole.
The Anti Choking Trainer allows users to practice the choking rescue protocols of the European Resuscitation Council, National Safety Council and International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movements around the world.
He wore Japanese clothes, which did not cover his throat, even when it was freezing cold, despite Russian people's recommendation that he should have covered his throat.
Beginning around 2000, a significant body of evidence has accumulated which questions the effectiveness of cricoid pressure.
It has thorns on the trunk and branches with bark that is deeply furrowed and corky and creamy-grey in colour.
They passed safely through the Panama Canal in February and were on their way to the Galapagos Islands.
Raised with a strong pious outlook, he and his brother (Nathaniel Rich, board member of the Somers Isles Company) were allies to the Puritans and to his cousin, Robert Rich, 2nd Earl of Warwick.
National Socialist Germany In the Third Reich, following the Prussian model, a rescue medal on a ribbon (wearable) and a commemorative medal for rescue from danger (non-wearable) were established by the Reich President on 22 June 1933.
Ventilago viminalis, commonly known as supplejack, vine tree or whip vine, is a tree native to Northern and Central Australia from coastal regions of Queensland to the Northern Territory and Western Australia (with occurrences in New South Wales and South Australia).
Compression therapy has been used in deep venous thrombosis prevention, wound care, as well as managing edema.
Children who often eat such game might develop a slightly lower IQ, as lead influences the development of the central nervous system.
It was originally described as Pogonolobus reticulatus in 1858, before being transferred to its current name in 1867.
It is a small tree (or large shrub) growing to 10 metres tall, hemiparasitic on the roots of other trees.
History Up until the 16th century, European scientists had little knowledge about human anatomy and anatomy of animals.
Leopards now occupy only about 37% of their native African range, with some estimates as low as 25%.
Investigation showed that this did not actually happen in practice and so breaking a death grip is no longer emphasised in lifesaving.
Most historical accounts of resin processing described Aboriginal men doing the work; however, several factors suggest that women had a much more significant role in processing resin than the accounts suggest.
Flew last combat mission on 15 August 1945, later flew in "Show of Force" mission on 2 September 1945 over Tokyo Bay during formal Japanese Surrender.
Technique The basic method involves repeatedly striking the spine of the knife to force the middle of the blade into the wood.
By making your call sound similar to that of a hen mallard, almost all other ducks will respond to it, and have their curiosity piqued by the calling.
BOM and CSIRO resources The Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) and the CSIRO have both worked with various groups to produce Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander seasonal calendars.
It may be operated by the operator alone or with the assistance of members of the household or hired employees, or it may be operated by a partnership, corporation, or other type of organization.
During the journey, a tropical storm caused the ship, the Sea Venture to be run aground on the reefs of the uninhabited St.
Vermin (colloquially varmint(s) or varmit(s)) are pests or nuisance animals that spread diseases and destroy crops, livestock, and property.
Shortly thereafter they moved to Yarmouth, living there for about five years before moving to Eastham.
This project worked to develop conservation planning and has been successful in preventing the overexploitation of resources such as locally hunted animals.
Until at least the 1950s, it was usual to see tinctures of iodine as an essential component of the medicine cabinet.
By the end of this "era of extermination", wildlife and especially big game populations were in drastic condition.
Russian officials in Kamchatka at first could not believe they had sailed from Amchitka to Kamchatka in a "hand-made boat".
Once or twice, United States Navy patrol planes did see him, and one dropped a marker buoy in the water.
By 1879 she had rescued 13 people and the Royal Humane Society recognised her achievements and presented her with the society's testament on vellum.
The Medical Tactical Certificate Training Program, also known as Med Tac, is a global bystander rescue care training program that focuses on life-saving actions that can be performed by non-medical bystanders for the eight leading preventable causes of death to children, youth, and adults.
Captain Pigot sent Adams to Tokujomaru, where he found the three survivors and brought them to Forester.
See also Dougal Robertson List of people who disappeared mysteriously at sea Jesús Vidaña Maurice and Maralyn Bailey Rose-Noëlle Poon Lim Life of Pi Literature Jonathan Franklin: 438 Days: An Extraordinary True Story of Survival at Sea, New York, 2016.
Low relative humidity (such as in centrally heated buildings), respiratory tract infections, chronic sinusitis, rhinitis or environmental irritants can cause inflammation and thinning of the tissue in the nose, leading to a greater likelihood of bleeding from the nose.
Today, it is the recommended first-aid procedure in Australia for treating snake and funnel web spider bites.
See also Slot limit Hunting license Wildlife management References External links Florida freshwater fishing bag limits Florida penalties for violating fishing bag limits Florida hunting regulations
He secured a position with the Singapore Municipal Commissioners in the Water Department and was engaged on the construction of the Pierce, Gunong Pulai and Pontian reservoirs.
In 2020, the institution produced the exhibition Manjiro: Drifting, 1841-2020 in partnership with the Japan America Society of Greater Philadelphia.
Capparis spinosa, the caper bush, also called Flinders rose, is a perennial plant that bears rounded, fleshy leaves and large white to pinkish-white flowers.
However, medical advisers urged Casualties Union to continue to serve the needs of peacetime first aid training, and a dedicated nucleus of about 100 volunteers continued to develop make-up and acting techniques for use in peacetime first-aid training.
Bakeries were among the earliest forms of cooking outside the home, and in the past, often offered cooking for pots of food that customers provided as an additional service.
Notes References Weatherbys staff (2015), Point-to-point FAQ and How To Get Involved, Weatherbys Limited, retrieved 4 July 2015
Common sizes include 5 cm × 5 cm (2 in × 2 in), 7.5 cm × 7.5 cm (3 in × 3 in), and 10 cm × 10 cm (4 in × 4 in).
The hybrid is made by first erecting a small tipi and then proceeding to construct a log cabin around it.
The main benefit of a bivouac sack shelter is speed of setup and ability to use in a tiny space as compared to tent-like shelters.
His main responsibility was the welfare of all Aboriginal people and upholding the law, Australian Law.
In the Boy Scouts of America's Sea Scouting program, "Women and children first" was considered "the motto of the sea" and was part of the Sea Promise until 2020.
Sportsman's Warehouse, a privately held Salt Lake City-based outdoor adventure retailer, had 68 locations throughout the U.S.
Ordered to active service during the Korean War, the units' equipment and personnel were reassigned to Far East Air Force active duty units.
Wild's younger brother Ernest Wild also went on to become a Royal Naval seaman and Antarctic explorer, receiving a Polar Medal.
"Cecil effect" The "Cecil effect" is a term used by some to describe the fact that after the killing of Cecil, there was a significant reduction in the number of hunters coming to Zimbabwe and a subsequent increase in lion populations in certain areas.
Lines known as ramu, often in a sacred pattern or depicting a traditional story, are carved onto the guwan, at which point it becomes a riji.
For optimal balance the luggage on a front carrier should be placed low, and as closely as possible to the steering axis (in line with the head tube, a little behind the front wheel axis).
Basic life-support techniques, such as performing CPR on a victim of cardiac arrest, can double or even triple that patient's chance of survival.
The barge is known for drifting 49 days across the North Pacific Ocean in 1960 after being disabled, with all sailors on board surviving the journey by rationing three days' supply of food.
The fruit has been made commercially available, the distinctive flavour is used as an additive, particularly as a uniquely Australian product.
Chimpanzees are significantly more likely to produce an alarm call when conspecifics are unaware of a potential threat or were not nearby when a previous alarm call was emitted.
British writer Sara Maitland discusses the story in A Book of Silence (2008) and in a short story, "The Tale of the Valiant Demoiselle," in Far North and Other Dark Tales (2008).
It can be referred to a bracelet-like band of a wristwatch, to the cuff or other part of a sleeve that covers the wrist.
Next, one would have to dig out the inner wood of the log to make space for the oarsmen to sit and paddle.
The object of pressure immobilisation is to contain venom within a bitten limb and prevent it from moving through the lymphatic system to the vital organs.
Some mink are positively afraid of it and some are positively not so." Chapter 14, Many Good Methods, page 113 "The mink is very cunning and hard to catch in a steel trap unless you know how and where to set, which is about the only secret there is in catching mink.
"In the England of Shakespeare's time", fanfares "were often known as flourishes and sometimes as 'tuckets' " (a word related to toccata).
Using California as an example again, it decides to use the entire length of the season that has been determined by the federal government.
Capsize and survival After being hit by a rogue wave during a storm, the trimaran capsized, trapping the crew inside.
In March 2016, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a proposal to ban their medical use and on December 19, 2016 passed a rule banning all powdered gloves intended for medical use.
The white rhinoceros is an exception, as its numbers in Africa have increased from 100 in 1916 to more than 18,000 in 2016 due largely to the increase in private game reserves intended for hunting.
civilians alone account for 393 million (about 46 percent) of the worldwide total of civilian held firearms.
Horses must be ridden to hounds on four or more occasions during the hunting season that immediately precedes the point-to-point season, and belong to a member, subscriber or farmer of a recognised pack.
It was sometimes known as a lyam hound/dog or lime-hound, from the Middle English word lyam, meaning 'leash'.
Care is usually required because of the poisonous and caustic nature of the sap, however in some locales toxicity is considered low, at least for part of the year.
During the Spanish Civil War of 1936–1939, the killing practice became popular among the sons of wealthy landowners.
Along with Rich, George Somers, Thomas Gates, William Strachey, Silvester Jourdain, and other settlers were castaways.
Accident LANSA Flight 508 departed Lima’s Jorge Chávez International Airport shortly before noon on 24 December 1971 on its way to Iquitos in north-eastern Peru, with a scheduled stop at Pucallpa.
This particular category of shield could also be used as a musical instrument when struck with a club, in addition to its use as a weapon.
In 2009 the Anti Choking trainer was named by the Journal of Emergency Medicine as one of 30 of the most innovative products at the 27th annual EMS Today.
According to Patrick Maher, the traditional Aboriginal model of illness sees social and spiritual dysfunction as a cause of illness, while supernatural intervention is regarded as the main cause of serious illness.
It helps practice choking rescue techniques and is mainly used in basic airway management to teach choking rescue protocols, abdominal thrusts (Heimlich maneuver) and the back slap method.
calobra is also known to Aboriginal people by the following names: Murchison-Gascoyne area (WA): kulyu Tjupan Ngalia group (Leonora, WA): wutha/wather == References ==
In 2007, Mylan acquired the right to market the EpiPen from Merck KGaA as part of a larger transaction.
Designs produced in numbers exceeding 1 million Designs produced in numbers from 100,000 to 1,000,000 Citations References Jenzen-Jones, N.R.
Emergency contacts can be added to iPhone lock screens with the iOS Health application, and accessed by tapping or swiping to the Emergency dialler, where calls to 911 or another pre-specified number can be made, and the Medical ID button is displayed as well.
Stichting Bedrijfshulpverlening Nederland (SBN) is a Dutch non-profit organization that deals with the training and certification of Emergency Response Officers for both companies and individual students.
The limer and its handler would then set about the task of harbouring the quarry again, perhaps by following its blood-trail, and either the injured animal would be dispatched, or the hunt would resume as before.
While a sustainable implementation of trophy and sport hunting has improved the numbers of some species, a sustainable modeled management does not always guarantee the growth of the population in targeted species.
Callahan recounted his ordeal in the best-selling book Adrift: Seventy-six Days Lost at Sea (1986), which was on The New York Times best-seller list for more than 36 weeks.
David Fuller was the first to receive the patent for the goose call in 1885 and impacted the duck hunting world in 1903 with his combination goose/duck call.
A man would always carry at least one spear, and normally a clump of resin so that repairs could be carried out on it and other utensils.
The Arrernte word for sweet foods is Ngkwarle (pronunciation: /ᵑɡʷaɭə/), meaning "honey-like foods".
Current research in Canada has suggested that door to balloon times are significantly lower when appropriate patients are identified by paramedics in the field, instead of the emergency room, and then transported directly to a waiting PCI lab.
Early signs of perforation were present in only 51% of perforation claims, whereas late sequelae occurred in 65%.
Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islander people have distinct ways of dividing the year up.
Following the demise of MRI, Royal National Lifeboat Institution started providing lifeboat services in Stonehaven and established a new premises in 2014.
Examples Florida bass fishing In southern Florida, licensed fishermen may keep no more than five largemouth bass per day, per license and only one may be longer than 14 inches (36 cm).
The transformation from bark canoes to dugout canoes greatly increased the ability of the tribal hunters to catch and kill both of these types of sea creatures due primarily to a more formidable structure.
They are frequently recruited by specialized agencies in their less affluent home countries such as Nepal and are often charged with high recruitment fees forcing them into debt bondage.
Wearing a space blanket produces an insignificantly slower cooling rate after running in hot, humid conditions.
Tissue reaches its lowest temperature faster and the tissue maintains its cool even after treatment ends.
Hunting methods Field studies show that different predator hunting methods (ambush, pursuit predation, etc.) can lead to distinct number of individuals or prey captured.
In 1990–1991, the idea and the design were developed enough to apply for Israeli Government support from the Office of the Chief Scientist in the Ministry of Industry.
First observed among modern hunter-gatherers, it has been offered as a hypothesis to explain the purpose of ancient rock art from a functionalist approach.
Grindstones were used against grass seeds to make flour for bread, and to produce marrow from bones.
A mural painted around the walls of the lounge bar in the Criterion Hotel in Gundagai depicts the scene.
Most trophies consist of only select parts of the animal, which are prepared for display by a taxidermist.
MRI offers the greatest image resolution and can provide diagnostic information on presence of soft tissue infection or bone infection.
Basset trials Sponsored by the American Kennel Club, Basset trials are conducted in either braces (pairs of hounds), small packs of seven hounds or large packs of 25 hounds, tracking a live rabbit or hare.
The nectar is produced by multicellular, glandular trichomes that arise between the shield-shaped trichomes.
The effectiveness of stop, drop and roll may be further enhanced by combining it with other firefighting techniques, including the use of a fire extinguisher, dousing with water, or beating the flames on oneself (blankets are commonly used for that).
This was made possible through the efforts of Erik Laxmann, Alexander Bezborodko, and Alexander Vorontsov.
In some versions of the story, Serrano was joined by another Spanish castaway after three years on the island.
A first aid station or first aid post is a staffed first aid room - especially a temporary one at a large gathering of people or an emergency incident.
Callahan's story also featured on an episode of British survival expert Ray Mears's television series Extreme Survival, and on an episode of the History Channel series Vanishings!.
Although Inglefield returned to the Launceston in October, by July 1769, he was back with Hood aboard the Romney and from that time forward his career was closely associated with his friend's.
1830s – April 15, 1912) was the name given to an unidentified man discovered on the beach of Sandy Cove, Digby, Nova Scotia, on September 8, 1863.
He corresponded regularly with Straits Times in matters relating to the natural history of Serimbun.
Most medium to large companies are obliged to have some sort of Emergency Response Team within their organisation to aid in emergency situations.
The pressure immobilisation technique is a first aid treatment used as a way to treat spider bite, snakebite, bee, wasp and ant stings in allergic individuals, blue ringed octopus stings, cone shell stings, etc.
Driving game as a hunting method is the act of directing the movement of the animal in order to kill it.
Thus the dictator Caesar used 400 lions (imported primarily from North Africa and Syria) in the Circus, where the inclusion of the foreign animal lent his shows extra panache.
However, there is a very low survival rate for nursery-purchased plants (mainly due to over watering), which may take several years to die.
The definition of take can also further extend to comprise the indirect harming of a species via modification of its habitat (see below§ Legal Definition of Take).
An untrained individual should not approach anyone in a state of panic who represents a danger to the rescuer, and it is advised to wait until it is safe to attempt to rescue and resuscitate them.
Four centuries after the invasion by the Arabs and the fall of Rome and Persia, many Greek books were translated into the Arabic language.
When a hollow tree (gum) was found, it often was sawed above and below the colony and carried back to be set up as a kept hive near home.
Swimming Pool Lifeguard Towers Different from the regular beach lifeguard towers, a swimming pool lifeguard tower is generally smaller in size.
They're ideal for carrying tools, spare parts, electronics, snacks, and other items that may need to be easily accessed while riding.
Life support systems and in-flight safety protocols are taught at the school's main facility, the Wilbur Rounding Franks building at CFB Winnipeg.
In hunting, take or taking is a term used in the United States to refer to any action that adversely affects a species, particularly killing individuals of that species, as outlined by the United States Endangered Species Act of 1973.
Lighthouse keeping After being reunited with his family in 1865, Musgrave promised his wife that he would never go far out at sea again.
Training similarly takes 8 months, with candidates instructing ML2 training under supervision before being assessed by experienced trainers instructing in regular units.
They typically have multiple attachment points to all three frame members to keep it stable and in position.
A hunting bag is a bag used by the hunter to transport their equipment, food and hunting accessories, e.g.
Survival training is used to teach survival skills or as a form of recreational activity in which individuals are generally challenged to sustain their basic needs, such as food, water and shelter, in an unpopulated area, with little or only natural resources.
It is recorded that his nephew, Matthew Somers, buried George's heart and organs somewhere near what is now Somers Garden, and preserved the rest of body in a cask of whiskey.
The sailors dispatched to pick them up, also mistaking both the men for the Devil, attempted to flee, but returned and rescued the men when they again invoked the name of Christ.
Held External links Dix-sept ans chez les sauvages : aventures de Narcisse Pelletier / publiées par C.
The plan itself includes various components: Diagnostic component: continue to monitor labs Therapeutic component: advance diet Referrals: follow up with Cardiology within three days of discharge for stress testing as an out-patient.
Another mid-fork eyelet "braze-on" is positioned 160 to 175 mm above it for mounting a low rider front luggage carrier.
They were widely used in Victorian Britain to revive fainting women, and in some areas, constables would carry a container of them for that purpose.
He was treated in a hospital in Majuro before flying to his family home in El Salvador on February 10.
Bush coconuts are found on many different species of bloodwood eucalypts (Corymbia) across Australia.
vespertilio is found on all mainland states except Victoria, mainly in open woodlands but extends to arid areas and rainforest margins.
The inflorescence is an open cymose panicle of apically small white flowers, sometimes with a purple or mauve striped tube.
He was found with both legs cut off to stumps, and when questioned by locals he said very little, suggesting he did not speak English or French.
Upon his guilt being determined, the ship's council then made an unusual decision: instead of hanging Loos, he would be marooned on the coast, along with Jan Pelgrom de Bye van Bemel.
Economic impact There are examples of the economic and conservation value of big-game hunting in several places.
While the Grand Canal had its post stations, canal locks, ramps, moles, and paved towpaths, the land route from Beijing to the Yalu River was less elaborate but still featured the necessary distance markers and walled stations.
This increased release of NETs have been found to be associated with asthmatic symptoms such as mucus hypersecretion.
Safety orange (also known as blaze orange, vivid orange, OSHA orange, hunter orange, or Caltrans orange) is a hue used to set objects apart from their surroundings, particularly in complementary contrast to the azure color of the sky.
Bush tomatoes are the fruit or entire plants of certain nightshade (Solanum) species native to the more arid parts of Australia.
The practice is most useful for obtaining dry wood from the inside of logs for the purpose of fire making.
The oldest wooden boomerang artefact known in Australia, excavated from the Wyrie Swamp, South Australia in 1973, is estimated to be 9,500 years old.
A band of 15 Taungurung men led by Jackie Jackie and Winberri tried to lure the white men away from their guns with the prospect of having sex with boys, saying that plenty of white men located nearby on the recently colonised Goulburn River regularly had sex with boys.
Bar-Natan, having grown the company to a profitable entity, later sold it to PerSys Medical in Houston, Texas, the company that first introduced the bandage to the US military.
The Newfoundland's extremely large bones give it mass, while its large musculature gives it the power it needs to take on rough ocean waves and powerful tides.
The Mexican government, particularly the states of Sonora and Chihuahua, introduced a bounty system in 1836, offering rewards for Apache scalp.
Raches might be set in relays along the path where the quarry could be expected to run, held in couples, to be released on the huntsman's signal.
Hypoxemia Intubation may be necessary for a patient with decreased oxygen content and oxygen saturation of the blood caused when their breathing is inadequate (hypoventilation), suspended (apnea), or when the lungs are unable to sufficiently transfer gasses to the blood.
They settled in Germiston, where in 1932, he worked supervising a stone-crushing machine at a Witwatersrand gold mine.
The term is often associated with the hunting of Africa's "Big Five" game (lion, African elephant, Cape buffalo, African leopard, and African rhinoceros), and Indian rhinoceros and Bengal tigers on the Indian subcontinent.
Large-sized commercial or military tents do often stand on flooring systems, which are large-sized tent platforms.
A death grip is an extremely tight grip, such as that exerted by people in a panic for fear for their life.
The wreckage discovered by them, including a lifebuoy and remnants of the wooden coal storage box which were both marked with the barge's number, confirmed the suspicion that the barge had been sunk by the hurricane, and its crew perished.
Efficient fieldcraft is only possible by spending time, effort, and attention to memorizing battlefield details, infiltration and escape routes, construction and employment of hiding positions, enemy force doctrines and equipment.
Uses and advantages This technique is useful for the simple splitting of wood for kindling, to access dry wood within a wet log, and for the production of shingles, slats, or boards.
Modern use Apart from the macadamia nut, with the first small-scale commercial plantation being planted in Australia in the 1880s, no native food plants were produced commercially until the 1990s.
The ship arrived on the Kerguelen, which at that time were also called Island of Desolation or just Desolation.
The irritant nature of smelling salts means that they can exacerbate any pre-existing cervical spine injury by causing reflex withdrawal away from them, although this is a result of holding the smelling salts closer to the nose than recommended.
The flowers hang in clusters and can also be eaten raw, as can the main part of the plant (altyeye in Arrernte).
Her stores were distributed among the remaining ships, with a large quantity of rum sent aboard Wager.
The course was designed by Master Charles Henry Ridgway and committee president William Knapp Thorn Jr.
Description Hunting bags are traditionally made of strong leather and worn over the shoulder on a wide strap.
Recognizing the trigger for asthma and avoiding it can be a simple yet effective way to deal with the disease and avoid an asthma attack.
Point-to-point Horses of field hunter type may also compete in certain race completions such as point-to-pointing.
Feral hives in the USA are uncommon since the arrival of varroa mites in the 1980s, and may represent an important, though small, pool of genetic resistance to the mites.
Hybrid A hybrid fire combines the elements of both the tipi and the log cabin creating an easily lit yet stable fire structure.
Labrador Retrievers and the Labrador Retriever/Golden Retriever Crossbreeds had the highest success rate.
This patient will have spontaneously opened eyes, will respond to voice (although may be confused) and will have bodily motor function.
Remote groups of the species are remnant to former distribution ranges, to different climates, and these may be isolated by hundreds of kilometres.
In 1611, he was the first to commercially cultivate Nicotiana tabacum tobacco plants in North America; export of this sweeter tobacco beginning in 1612 helped turn the Virginia Colony into a profitable venture.
Although optimal treatment strategies vary greatly depending on the specific cause, size, and age of a particular wound, there are universal principles of wound management that apply to all wounds.
The grass tree mainly occurs in soils that are very free draining and consequently low in nutrients.
Construction Like other types of luggage carriers low riders are usually constructed out of aluminum or (stainless) steel rods or tubing.
See also Hunting hypothesis Haiǁom people Jeffers Petroglyphs Rock carvings in Central Norway The Sorcerer (cave art) Great Mural Rock Art, Baja California Notes == References ==
Animal species attracted to game calls include deer, turkey, ducks, geese, moose, elk, raccoons, wild pigs, coyotes, bears, wolves, cougars, foxes, quails, squirrels, chipmunks, and crows.
As children grow and begin learning how to communicate, the noises they make are very broad in relation to their environment.
Space blankets are often given to marathoners and other endurance athletes at the end of races, or while waiting before races if the weather is chilly.
He survived it sinking in the surf in heavy weather, went back to England, and continued to work as a fisherman on various boats.
They continue to be a commercial success, with such themes as Nickelodeon characters, Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck, Superman, Spider-Man, smiley faces, Barbie, Elmo (Sesame Street), and Batman.
In the last few decades, the hunting of the Big Five species has been controlled through permit systems, hunting quotas, and protected areas in many countries within Africa.
(Marine EPIRBs are constructed to float, while an aviation ELT is constructed to be activated by a sharp deceleration and is sometimes referred to as a Crash Position Indicator or CPI).
Global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) have become ubiquitous in long-haul transport operation and are becoming a standard automobile feature.
Their bones, teeth, claws and fat have been used in traditional African medicines and religious ceremonies.
In 1911, a breed club for the breed in England, the Golden Retriever Club, was formed, and the breed was given a new name, the "Yellow or Golden Retriever".
Internet hunting is the practice of hunting via remotely controlled firearms that can be aimed and shot using online webcams.
Camping and Woodcraft is an American classic published by Horace Kephart in 1916, detailing the practical skill-sets needed to endure the harsh conditions of the wilderness, and to make that experience more enjoyable to the amateur outdoorsman.
Mary Leakey in 1938 that revealed substantial findings in different areas of the site and levels of occupations.
Roman Era – The Roman Era collection shows findings from the Palatinate, which once was part of the Roman province of Germania Superior (Upper Germany).
Although someone may have carried this weight from another house, the Bar Kathros family certainly had a house in Jerusalem, given their priestly position, and this one is a good candidate.
The displays include archaeological finds from tombs at Al Badiyah, Dibba Al-Fujairah, and Qidfa', with objects such as arrowheads, carnelian beads, and vessels.
The first speech is a historical overview in which he provides a moral rationale for the fall of the Shang dynasty (c.
The initial holdings were later moved to a newly built premises and the building was inaugurated on 12 October 1965.
The museum is a trust borne by the City of Speyer, the Evangelical Church of the Palatinate, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Speyer, the State of Rhineland-Palatinate, the Historical Society of the Palatinate, and the Bezirksverband Palz (County Association).
The museum contains the only Jewish artifact found in the UAE: a gravestone with an inscription referring to David, son of Moses, which was discovered in 1998 around the area of Shamal.
A Māori meeting house named Hinemihi (more fully Hinemihi o te Ao Tawhito), which provided shelter to the people of Te Wairoa village during the eruption, was relocated in 1892 to Clandon Park as an ornamental garden building and a souvenir of William Onslow, 4th Earl of Onslow.
Here, the King said that drinking wine in excess has made the Shang dynasty lose the Mandate of Heaven, grace, and the army, while the Kings of Zhou do not drink excessively even ceremonially.
This last museum has also developed a 'museum-without-walls' through a series of underwater wreck trails.
This museum was initially maintained in a part of a hospital located near Sri Maha Bodiya and Ruwanwalisa in Anuradhapura.
The archaeology of Romania began in the 19th century with the establishment of the Vasile Pârvan Institute of Archaeology in Bucharest in 1834 (since 1866 as part of the Romanian Academy).
In Singapore, they built a naval base at Sembawang, strengthened the air force and installed large 15-inch coastal guns.
The museum gained prominence in 1899 when its scientists unearthed the fossils of Diplodocus carnegii.
Jorge Castillo hired Maro Tejada, a student of archaeology at la Universidad del Valle, to classify his extensive collection.
Among these antiquities there is a model of the Abhayagiri Stupa, Jantāgara and Paṁcāvāsa building etc.
Nominated by the Northern Cape Rock Art Trust in 2006 as a Provincial Heritage Site, the Wildebeest Kuil rock art site was declared, on 19 September 2008, as the first new Provincial Heritage Site since the implementation, in 2000, of the National Heritage Resources Act.
The museum building is the Culture Palace, a monument of architecture from 1913, by the architect Ludovic Szantay.
On a visit to Jerusalem in 1981, he met Batya Weiss who encouraged him to bring his collection of Ancient Near Eastern Art from biblical times to Israel and establish a museum.
Collection The objects of the museum were displayed in four areas: The Main Hall on the ground floor The gallery on the first floor The Open Air Museum in the garden The Monumental Alley outside the museum building The ground floor Highlights of the collections included: The Taharqa statue.
Isan (or northeastern Thailand), once home to Ban Chiang, Dvaravati, Lopburi and Khmer civilizations.
Denis Weil, formerly Dean of the Institute of Design at the Illinois Institute of Technology, served as director in 2020-2023.
Statuette of a Wolf, from the 6th to 5th centuries BC, is a bronze cast figure discovered in Ayrum, Armenia.
In 1961, the Slovak Museum and the Slovak National Museum in Martin were merged into the Slovak National Museum, based in Bratislava.
In 1990, at the time of Namibia's independence, some 4000 of them (men then employed by the South African Defence Force together with their families) were flown to a tent-town at Schmidtsdrift, west of Kimberley.
There are no real attestations for growth of facial hair in the Egyptian culture even given the culture of hairlessness as a manifestation cleanliness.
Excavations, since the 16th century, but especially since the beginning of the 20th century, have occurred mainly in the area of Sa Portella (a residential district), the city forum and the tabernae, and in the theater.
Overview The museum is located inside the former Postal Services Palace, which also houses a philatelic museum.
Pollentia (Catalan: Pol·lèntia) was a Roman city founded by Quintus Caecilius Metellus Balearicus in the present city of Alcúdia, allegedly in the year 123 BC.
At that time the vault was open in the afternoon on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by prior appointment.
The town plan follows a regular rectangular layout organized along two main perpendicular street axes, linking the central forum to its main gates.
The rooftop (final floor) is a spacious terrace offering a wide view of the Nile, designed for the king to overlook the city of Helwan.
Building The museum is housed in the Palacio de la Real Aduana, which was constructed between 1805 and 1807.
In December 2010, the museum debuted a new permanent gallery with special collections of hand, shadow, and string puppets along with programmable lighting and original backgrounds.
Currently, the Rockefeller Museum holds thousands of artifacts ranging from prehistoric times to the Ottoman period.
Other collections include Baroque figurines; items from the Far East; design; book art; graphic art; photography; and antique pottery, weaponry and statues External links Home page (English version) Further reading Prestel-Museumsführer Museum für Kunst und Gewerbe Hamburg.
The earlier of the two, the Gate of Ptolemy III, is only partly conserved but retains traces of its paintwork.
The modern history collection contains documents, photographs, memorial objects from the Revolution of 1848 and the Union of 1 December 1918 of Transylvania with Romania.
Transformations reported by the photographs are not always obvious to understand for the untrained eye.
It was built to honor the 45 Christian martyrs executed between 1885-1887, with its design reflecting the historical and spiritual significance of the site.
History The National Museum began under French colonial rule as the Sudanese Museum, part of the Institut Français d’Afrique Noire (IFAN) under Théodore Monod.
In the Ancient Egypt exhibition there is a room dedicated to death, with mummies, sarcophagi, and a film showing the process of mummification.
The Museo Nazionale The most notable of its collections include: The two large, well-preserved 5th century BC Riace bronzes, found in the province of Reggio, are thought to be the most significant bronze sculptures from the Greek period and among the few survivors of works by its master sculptors.
In 2020, the Peabody Museum closed for its "first comprehensive renovation in 90 years." It reopened, with more than twice the exhibition space, on March 26, 2024.
The most active of the international support groups of the museum, the American Friends of the Israel Museum, raised $270 million in cash, of which $47 million is in endowment funds, and donated $210 million in the art from 1972 to 2008.
The Natural History Museum Vienna (German: Naturhistorisches Museum Wien) is a large natural history museum located in Vienna, Austria.
Renaissance art produced in the Netherlands, Flanders, France and Italy is on display in the next room.
Research and education The Research Institute of the Begin Heritage Center sponsors conferences, lectures and colloquia in cooperation with universities and other research centers.
Its location, initially in a ground-floor room near the center of the North Wing of the Cour Carrée, was changed several times during its relatively brief existence.
During an earthquake following the eruption on 20 July, on the road between Rotorua and Te Wairoa, a fissure was opened, where a post eruption pond had formed, that was 230 m (750 ft) long and up to 30 m (98 ft) deep.
Prehistory – The exhibits show the cultural, social and economical development in the Palatinate beginning from the earliest findings to the eve of the Roman occupation.
With its alternating layers of red brick and natural stone and its cross-mullioned windows, it typifies the regional style known as Mosan Renaissance architecture.
Worship Armenia's ancient belief of dogs was attributed to them being a guide for the dead souls towards the underworld and their ability to revive the dead.
Although little was known about their archaeological find contexts, Graf went as far as to ascribe the portraits to known Ptolemaic pharaohs by analogy with other works of art, mainly coin portraits.
As of 2008, visible cracks were threatening the building, which was also sinking due to groundwater.
The arts centre has presented exhibits on traditional Arabic calligraphy, the history of the country and the Emirates Mars Mission.
There are eleven dioramas in total: three on the ecology of Connecticut with plants and vertebrates, and eight depicting various regions around North America.
Its best-known exhibit is the ancient statue of the Greek Goddess Artemis retrieved from the temple of the goddess in Ephesus.
Some archaeology museums, such as the Western Australian Museum, may also exhibit maritime archaeological materials.
Exhibits are accompanied by the informative charts explaining the principal historical events associated with the Old Bridge.
The ministry had to go as far as send him an official warning to stop using government funds for anything other than buying antiquities.
However, problems with the remodeling surfaced, resulting in the viceroy naming Jose Eduardo Herrera to take over, and Peinado ended up in jail.
The historic building that hosts the museum has been renovated and restored to be suitable for displaying and displaying cultural relics and artifacts.
Directors From 1876, Superintendents: 1876–1884 Ferdinand von Hochstetter(1829–1884): the first superintendent of what was then the Imperial Natural History Museum, after having been, from 1860, professor of mineralogy and geology at the Imperial-Royal Polytechnic Institute in Vienna.
Vasarely Museum Hungarian artist, Victor Vasarely, donated a significant collection of his works to the gallery.
Collections are relating to Anatolian history, including the Early Bronze Age, Assyrian Colony Period, Hittite, Neo-Hittite, Urartian, Aramean, as well as Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Syrian, Iran, Palestinian and Ancient Arabian cultures.
Gates to the Temple of Medamud are two monumental gateways to the Ptolemaic-era phase of the Temple of Montu at Medamud, located to the north of Luxor on the right bank of the Nile.
Room 2 contains objects from the Early Bronze Age (3rd millennium BC) from Göltepe and the Kestel tin mines, as well as Middle Bronze Age pottery from the Assyrian trade colonies at Acemhöyük, near Çamardı.
Field Museum curatorial faculty and their graduate students and postdoctoral trainees use the collections in their research and in training e.g., in formal high school and undergraduate training programs.
Location The museum is situated opposite the central park of La Democracia, which is notable for its display of large prehispanic sculptures in the potbelly style.
Batumi Archaeological Museum (Georgian: ბათუმის არქეოლოგიური მუზეუმი) is an archaeological museum in the city of Batumi in Adjara, Georgia.
Exhibits include painted ceramic art of several regional styles depicting mythology, religion with god like figures containing hieroglyphic texts, and often indicating the owner of the piece and the artist.
With the growth in the number of artefacts, it became necessary to transfer them to a larger space, and the museum was opened in 1964.
The museum contains about 26 thousand archaeological pieces belonging to different indigenous cultures of Peru.
The National Museum of Antiquities, established in the 19th century, was merged into the Institute in 1956.
Carrowmore is the heart of an ancient ritual landscape which is dominated by the mountain of Knocknarea to the west.
History The museum was established in 1950 with the purpose to find, collect, keep and present the cultural and historical heritage of Mostar and Herzegovina.
Facilities The entrance hall to the museum has a map of the ancient city set into the floor, overlaid with glass marked with the streets of modern Guatemala City.
Drawings and prints The collection shows selected rotating exhibitions of its collection of 10,000 drawings and 100,000 prints originating mainly from the Esterhazy, Istvan Delhaes and Pal Majovsky acquisitions.
The collections form a unique reference and were only accessible to specialists until the late 1990s.
While the permanent exhibitions focus on the history of the Palatinate, the special ones can have general historical topics.
A central theme of the exhibition was urbanization as "a disaster inflicted on the Prehistory" and the upheavals of the Lebanese landscape.
Since 1967, the museum has been jointly managed by the Israel Museum and the Israel Department of Antiquities and Museums (later reorganized as the Israel Antiquities Authority).
Archaeological collection This collection contains all the objects obtained during excavations in the district.
Development Construction of the museum was first proposed by the Dirección General de Caminos ("Highways Department") in 1998 as part of its plans to build a highway from San Luis to Flores in order to offset any damage to Guatemala's cultural heritage caused by the construction project.
From 1965, the museum was housed in a series of masonry buildings designed by the Russian-born Israeli architect Alfred Mansfeld.
Its mouth is engraved with Taotie patterns and its four legs are engraved with animal face patterns.
It also has cannon-shaped gargoyles, which could be fired, but only with permission of city authorities.
Museum The building, one of the outstanding examples of the civil architecture in Turkey, was restored between 1988 and 2001.
The museum was estimated to reopen in 2027, but due to the budget cuts by Petteri Orpo's government affecting the Finnish Heritage Agency, the reopening has been postponed indefinitely.
References External links Objektsammlung des Historischen Museums der Pfalz Historischer Verein der Pfalz Homepage of the museum (English version) Archived 11 January 2019 at the Wayback Machine
References Further reading External links Museo Chileno de Arte Precolombino, official website (in Spanish)
The Iași Institute of Archaeology, founded in 1990 as part of the Romanian Academy, has taken over its publication.
Gallery References External links Niğde Museum Niğde Müzesi Archived 2017-01-24 at the Wayback Machine (Turkish) Many pictures of museum objects 37°58′06″N 34°40′21″E
The National Museum of Ras Al Khaimah (Arabic: متحف رأس الخيمة الوطني) is a museum located in the emirate of Ras al-Khaimah, in the north of the United Arab Emirates.
Next, there is the reproduction of the engraving representing the Bos Primigenius a bovid dating back around 11,000 years ago (thus from the final part of the Upper Paleolithic).
85–97{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Corsi, C.; De Dapper, M.; Deprez, S.; Vermeulen, F.
It was bolstered, however, by the 1958 creation of a Degree in Anthropology by the University of Buenos Aires, and the institution was subsequently transferred to the university's School of Philosophy and Letters.
The Ganot-Peschard has seven permanent rooms: the Lytic Stage, Loma San Gabriel, Chalchihuita Culture, Guadiana Culture, Aztatlán Culture, Rock Art and The Archaeological Method.
The museum has a permanent exhibition hall, a temporary exhibition hall and a mezanine with a display of 60 archaeological photographs taken between 1994 and 1996.
The Art Gallery branch of the museum (Sectia de Arta) is located in the opposite prefecture, on the other side of the park and on the corner of Str.
The site of one of these villages (Kokotaia) was utilised in the postulated rediscovery of the Pink and White Terrace locations.
Al Ain Museum (Arabic: متحف العين) is a museum located in the city of Al Ain, in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
The flourishing Roman town, lying in the Roman province of Lusitania, acquired its civitas statute in 44–45 AD, although there is some debate on whether it received its municipal status (municipium) during the reign of Nero, Lucius Verus or Vespasian.
Accordingly, the Assyrian Queen Semiramis, fascinated by the beauty of the Armenian King Ara, was trying to send him gifts.
The Iron Gates Region Museum (Romanian: Muzeul Regiunii Porţilor de Fier) is a museum in Drobeta-Turnu Severin, Romania.
The extensive Greek, Roman and Etruscan Collection comprises marble statues, small terra cotta statues, reliefs, pottery and other artifacts.
Before winter 1873, Yuan Baoheng (袁保恆; 1826–1878), a follower of Zuo Zongtang bought it for 700 taels of silver.
The collection comprises around 3,300 artifacts, including about 3,000 cuneiform texts spanning nearly 3,000 years and representing almost all periods and genres.
Most display cases and 49 pieces out of more than 200 silver objects in the museum's Silver Room were damaged in the explosion, although most of them only mildly.
Ethnographic materials obtained in scientific and discovery expeditions were also incorporated into the Royal Cabinet.
Collections The museum's collections were from Archaeological discoveries since 1968 in the emirate of Ras Al Khaimah, partially donated by city residents and the Quwasim family.
Tamayo left the museum to his native state of Oaxaca, for his fellow Mexicans awareness of their rich cultural heritage.
The Curtius Museum (French: Musée Curtius) is a museum of archaeology and decorative arts located on the bank of the river Meuse in Liège, Belgium.
See also Open-air museum List of museums Types of museums Museum of Archaeology and History of Le Mans == References ==
The section "Antiquity" contains an important collection of Greek vases (about 1,500 vessels) and stones with inscriptions.
Maybe these are the skeletons of the guardians, pro tempore, of this sacred place, which has bovine engravings that are the images used during the rites before the hunt.
William Mulloy, an American archaeologist, the library’s collection focuses on Rapa Nui and Polynesian Studies, especially the prehistory, history, ethnology, archaeology, cultural anthropology, osteology and geology of Easter Island.
The museum originated in 1911 as the Municipal Museum of History and Art (Museo Civico di Storia e d'Arte).
The AIATSIS collections not only contain priceless records of Australia's Indigenous cultural heritage, but provide a significant national and international research infrastructure for research by, for and about Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
The prosperous oppidum was destroyed along with other Celtic settlements in Slovakia around the beginning of the Common Era either by the Germanic tribe of Quadi or by Dacians.
A feasibility study was carried out in order to assess the possibility of installing the museum in this tower and on the adjacent area.
Components The above definition was made by EXARC, a global network of professionals for those active in archaeological open-air museums, experimental archaeology, ancient technology and interpretation, using ICOM's definition of museums.
In November 2021, Yale University announced that admission will be free "in perpetuity" once construction is complete.
The small farmhouse is close to the R292 road, approximately 2 km (1.2 mi) east of Ransboro crossroads.
It has a collection composed mainly of replicas of Egyptian pieces belonging to several different periods.
Most of the sites are "satellite tombs" which surround the largest monument, placed on the high point of the plateau, the cairn (now restored) called Listoghil.
Most of the Muisca artefacts are housed in the Gold Museum, Bogotá, the museum with the most golden objects in the world.
Coins and currency circulating in Uzbekistan from the third century BC (the Greco-Bactrian_Kingdom) to the present day are represented.
The museum is structured into many scientific sections: Ancient History and Archaeology, Medieval History, History of Basarabia, Contemporary History, Treasures.
The museum is at the same time a site of cultural heritage and an academic institution, promoting critical analysis of traditional belief systems.
In 1938, under the lead of the historian Ion Berciu, the settlement came to be managed by the Romanian state under the new name of Alba Regional Museum.
The National Museum of Finland (Finnish: Suomen kansallismuseo, Swedish: Finlands Nationalmuseum) is a museum in Helsinki presenting Finnish history from the Stone Age to the present day, through objects and cultural history.
One hundred and twenty people died in the eruption, many of them in other villages closer to the volcano.
The museum is or has been active in excavations at Köşk Höyük, Porsuk Hüyük, Kestel, Göllü Dağ, Andaval, Eskigümüş and Kınık Höyük.
The Jebel Barkal Museum is an archaeological site museum located on the eastern side of the archaeological area of Jebel Barkal at Karima in the Northern State of Sudan.
It was used as a residence pavilion for officers, and between 1967 and 1968, it was refurbished to become a museum.
In the second hall, there are two display cases exhibiting items related to the Ottoman and modern Turkish periods.
Chile Route 1, known locally as Ruta 1, is a longitudinal national route that is located in the Norte Grande of Chile, in the regions of Tarapacá and Antofagasta.
On the northern side there are several steps that indicate a straight line smooth route down towards the water spring.
It contains objects found at sites in the surrounding area, including the tell of Köşk Höyük and the Graeco-Roman city of Tyana, both in the nearby town of Kemerhisar.
Beal and Executive Vice President Anne Erickson received significant raises in 2014 and $50,000 bonuses in 2013 raised concerns among Wayne, Macomb and Oakland County residents.
To display them, a small museum was built in 1903 to the north of the Ananda Temple, where ancient stone inscriptions were displayed.
Cultural phases across sites While Ter Khala Deri and Akra represent the most important sites along with the Neolithic Sheri Khan Tarakai site wherein efforts have been primarily focused as of recent.
Mohamed became interested in local archaeology from childhood, whilst Najla studied archaeology and art at Gaza University.
They can include stone epigraphs; statues; architectural elements such as columns, cornices, and acroterions; bas reliefs, tombstones; and sarcophagi.
A cuneiform inscription testifies that the city was built by Argishti I the King of Urartu in 782 BCE.
The statue was broken by the Egyptians when they sacked Napata in 591 BCE under the reign of Psamtik II, then buried in a pit by Kushite priests and excavated by George Reisner in 1916.
Temporary exhibitions Fantastic Bug Encounters!* TBA Bloodsuckers: Legends to Leeches* TBA Unseen Oceans* TBA Reptiles Alive!* TBA Includes live animals.
The New Zealand Ministry for Culture and Heritage gives a translation of 'the long stream' for Te Wairoa.
Collections The museum contains artifacts from various indigenous cultures of Peru, these are the Inca, Nazca, Chincha, Wari and Paracas.
The museum houses the most important collection of Cucuteni culture artifacts and it is the home of the Cucuteni Research Centre.
A collection of Miletian, Greek-Macedonian, Seleucid, Parthian, Roman, Sasanid, Byzantine, Arabic, and Seljuk gold, silver, and copper coins which have circulated in Armenia.
The new baths took over a whole insula by demolishing houses, which may have been made easier by the earthquake that had damaged these houses.
The first post-eruption house (Tikitapu Cottage) was built at Te Wairoa in 1904, by Guide Cromwell Shepherd.
The renovation more than doubled the exhibition space, added 10 classrooms, and included a new education center for K-12 students.
The robbers left traces of their passage, as in a house where modern archaeologists found a wall graffito saying "house dug".
The museum complex includes the historic Sultan Fort, which dates back to the early 20th century and forms an integral part of the site.
The museum was founded with the aim of showcasing objects that were previously used by traditional medicine practitioners who had been converted to Christianity.
See also List of museums in Saudi Arabia References External links Media related to Jeddah Regional Museum of Archaeology and Ethnography at Wikimedia Commons
See also List of museums in Argentina References External links Official website Media related to Museo de Arqueología de Alta Montaña at Wikimedia Commons
Rescue parties met them on the way and some of the able-bodied chose to return to Te Wairoa to aid in digging out the buried.
It held a vote and decided that the acquisition was unnecessary, since they had already acquired a pretty substantial collection from the bequest of Wagner and some subsequent purchases.
At Te Wairoa after the eruption, the ash depth was 0.8636 m (2 ft 10.00 in), and one of the deeper layers was in a very wet state.
This is because Roman male was advised to avoid excessive attention to hairstyles as he may be criticized for unmanliness.
In 2009, the museum had moved to a new location and was reopened as the National Archaeological Museum Aruba.
the vase has been dated to the Late Classic and is of the Paixban variety of the Paixban Ante Polychrome ceramic type, belonging to the Zacatal-Joyac ceramic group.
His passion for antiquity, fuelled by his travels to the Mediterranean area, led to his assembling a collection of plaster casts from 1877 to 1895.
The Menachem Begin Heritage Center is the official state memorial commemorating Menachem Begin, Israel's sixth Prime Minister.
Collections and exhibitions Al Ain Museum features nine permanent galleries that present the archaeological, environmental, and cultural history of the Al Ain region from prehistoric times through the modern era.
The museum also has a laboratory for conservation and preservation of objects of cultural heritage and history.
The bibliography covers archaeology, history, arts, ancient Greek religion and ancient Greek philosophy, as well as Ancient Greek and Latin literature.
Rifnik Hill (pronounced [ˈɾiːfnik]) is a hill with an archaeological open-air museum in eastern Slovenia.
History Created by means of a May 1837 Royal Order, the provincial museum was opened on 19 November 1838.
This section of the museum was opened on 22 April 1981, displaying a political biography of Bijedić.
From July 14 to August 10, 2001, an international team led by Alexander Wasse (Council for British Research in the Levant) conducted a field campaign.
At the banks of the water strip two Meroitic frog statues 60 cm in height from Basa village representing the water-goddess Heket, as well as Beset the protector of pregnant women and newborn babies.
The Balbino de Freitas Archaeological Collection was one of the collections on display in National Museum of Brazil, in Rio de Janeiro.
The Gold and Silver Gallery showcases the largest collection of jewelry used by many notable rulers of pre-Columbian Peru.
As a whole, the mosaics were laid out using the opus tessellatum (tiles aligned in horizontal or vertical lines) and opus vermiculatum (tiles aligned so as to draw an outline around the shapes) techniques.
The Field Museum was an early adopter of positive-pressure based approaches to control of environment in display cases, using control modules for humidity control in several galleries where room-level humidification was not practical.
The Ephesus Archaeological Museum (Turkish: Efes Müzesi) is an archaeological museum in Selçuk near the Ancient Greek city of İzmir, Turkey.
Informe de la primera temporada de campo del proyecto Arqueológico Plazuelas, Archivo Centro INAH Guanajuato, 1998.
The museum presents a panorama overview of Sudanese archaeology, is based on the fieldwork and research conducted by the Swiss Archaeological Mission.The site attracts a high number of visitors, with annual attendance exceeding 30,000 people.
From 1879, the Englishman Clarence Bicknell developed a passion for this site and devoted thirty years of his life to it.
The Kerma Museum is an archeological site museum located in front of the Western Deffufa on the archaeological site of Kerma, in the Northern State of Sudan.
External links Official website 440 or so pictures from the museum Detailed description of the museum's exhibitions with photos Ephesus Museum Guide
The authenticity of materials and techniques used should be clearly accounted for through written and accessible records, quoting the sources of information on which the reconstructions are based.
Other buildings In addition to the shrine, the reconstructed buildings include a fortified gateway of the hill fort with a section of the stone walls (120-50 BCE), farmstead (300-100 BCE), a pottery kiln (300-100 BCE), and huts from various periods.
(September 2008), "Geoarchaeological Research in the Roman Town of Ammaia (Alentejo, Portugal)", Multudisciplinary Approaches to Classical Archaeology-Approcci Multidisciplinari per l'Archeologia Classica.
In 1998, the Department completed museum expansion plans with two large halls covering antiquities and three halls for heritage.
History The art museum was founded by Marie-Louise and Gunnar Didrichsen, who asked Finnish architect Viljo Revell to build the first of two phases in 1958 and again in 1965.
The Da Yu ding (Chinese: 大盂鼎; pinyin: Dà Yú dǐng) is an ancient Chinese bronze circular ding vessel from the Western Zhou dynasty (1046–771 BC).
Rare bone tools and an antler from the Antelias Cave, Sands of Beirut illustrate the ingenuity of the prehistoric people who inhabited Lebanon.
A group of 24 vases salvaged in 1973 from the Hokeb Ha cave in Toledo, southern Belize, was the most interesting part of the collection.
A basket was one of the main elements of the collection, collected in a sambaqui in the coastal area.
In December 1940, the museum was divided again, with its historical collections being moved to the Chapultepec Castle, where they formed the Museo Nacional de Historia, focusing on the Viceroyalty of the New Spain and its progress towards modern Mexico.
The center operates varied programs and tours for students, soldiers, and youth visiting from abroad.
Artists and artifacts Some of the ancient artists whose work is presented in the museum are Myron, Scopas, Euthymides, Lydos, Agoracritus, Agasias, Pan Painter, Wedding Painter, Meleager Painter, Cimon of Cleonae, Nessos Painter, Damophon, Aison, Analatos Painter, Polygnotos, and Hermonax.
A scientist has been claiming that certain parts of a new aircraft called a Reindeer will develop metal fatigue sooner than officially estimated, but nobody takes him seriously.
Elasippus, along with his nine siblings, became the heads of ten royal houses, each ruling a tenth portion of the island, according to a partition made by Poseidon himself, but all subject to the supreme dynasty of Atlas who was the eldest of the ten.
Spartel Bank is one of several seamounts in the bed of Gibraltar Strait; similar but deeper seamounts are found at Camarinal Sill and further east.
On the other hand, it is not very likely that early PIE predates 4500 BC, as the reconstructed vocabulary strongly suggests a culture of the terminal phase of the Neolithic bordering on the early Bronze Age.
External links "Moab Man" - "Malachite Man" The Paluxy Dinosaur/"Man Track" Controversy Read about the "Malachite man" (Moab man) at www.bible.ca
However, due to the ambiguity of these accounts, scholars have debated the meaning of the term "Kurds," considering whether it referred to a group defined by ethnicity and language, nomadic lifestyle, or a specific environment in which they lived.
Barry Pritzker stated, regarding the role of clowns in Hopi dances, The clowns play an important role-embodying wrong social behavior, they are soon put in their place by the katsinam for all to see.
A very aged priest tells him that 9000 years earlier, Athens had been in conflict with the great power of Atlantis, which was then destroyed in a catastrophe.
Hundreds of Sumerian astronomical seals and calendars have been decoded and recorded, and the total count of planets on each seal has been five.
The second stone is more rounded and about 5 by 6 with a short inscription on one side, while the third is fairly flat, 6 x 10, and carries the main inscriptions.
Taylor and his followers, who included the Astronomer Royal of Scotland Charles Piazzi Smyth (1819–1900), also found numerous apparent coincidences between the measurements of the pyramids and the geometry of the Earth and the Solar System.
Priest is often identified as one of the creators of pseudoscientific and pseudohistoric literature.
Branham reportedly referred to Paul the Apostle as "a short, stooped over, hook nose, high-tempered Jew".
It is also present in Siberian populations as well as in the region of Volga-Ural, as just mentioned.
http://www.easymonitoring.ch/handelsregister/dr-a-hedri-stiftung-fuer-exopsychologie-und-epipsychologie-275592 Easymonitoring AG, 23 June 2003, accessed on 2 February 2014 .
In response, John Carman wrote in the San Francisco Chronicle, "You'd think the NBC brass would be a touch embarrassed by the program, and eager to let the little furor fritter away into oblivion.
In this book, Spence theorized that the original Britons were descendants of a people that migrated from Northwest Africa and were probably related to the Berbers and the Basques.
Since he regarded intermarriage with white or black people as "disastrous", he advocated intermarriage with Koreans, whose "inferior" physical characteristics would be subsumed by the "superior" Japanese, according to his thinking.
See also Pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact Pseudoarchaeology External links Columbus State University Archives Defunct ISAC website available on Wayback Machine's web archive Epigraphic Society == References ==
References External links Official website Riley Schillaci's channel on YouTube Melanie Falcon (February 7, 2012).
It had been identified as one of two international journals which regularly published articles pertaining to race and intelligence with the goal of supporting the idea that white people are inherently superior (the other such journal being Mankind Quarterly).
Elspeth displays a touching mix of precocity and serious intelligence, but betrays Honey's hobbies of spiritualism and prophecy.
In Greek mythology, Mneseus (Ancient Greek: Μνησεύς) was one of the ten sons of Poseidon and Cleito in Plato's myth of Atlantis.
I am unable at present to refer to a characteristic portrait of the Telingan race; most of the published figures of Hindoos having been taken either from the White race or from mixtures.
According to Dictys Cretensis, he was taken captive by Neoptolemus, who later dressed up in Mestor's Phrygian clothes to deceive Acastus.
His time in the Pontiac Correctional Facility in Illinois had coincided with the period when Russell E.
Olmec iconography and artwork uses imagery of animals such as the jaguar and the serpent, as well as large heads to depict their leaders.
In Greek mythology, Diaprepes (Ancient Greek: Διαπρέπης means "distinguished") was the youngest of the five pairs of twins borne of Poseidon and Cleito in Plato's myth of Atlantis.
All these tangential links would seem to be affirmed by the apparent link between the early Mukunu Ruku narrative and the accounts of the Captaincy of the Malindi coast.
Stalking Cat (born Dennis Avner; August 27, 1958 – November 5, 2012) was an American man known for his extensive body modifications, which were intended to increase his resemblance to a tiger.
Bughao works for Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR) and Director Auxiliary of the 128th Squadron of Philippine Coast Guard Auxiliary [2018-2022].
Alternative theories proposed include that the rock was the site of a Norse colony or that it is connected with suspected UFO activity.
They are often excluded from official histories and marginalized by state-centered perspectives that dominate academic history.
[…] In contrast to many other of their openly offensive teachings, the Hindu nationalists did not seek to keep the question of the Aryan migration out of public discourses or to modify it; rather, efforts were made to help the theory of the indigenousness of the Hindus achieve public recognition.
Mystery of the Crystal Skulls is a 2008 American documentary television film hosted by Lester Holt and starring Jaime Awe and Bill Homann.
Bond with the retired navy Captain John Allan Bartlett ("John Alleyne") as a medium claimed to have contacted through automatic writing dead monks and the builder of the Edgar Chapel at Glastonbury, who advised him where to excavate.
It was recorded at a 1967 concert at the Olatunji Center of African Culture in New York and has been described as "a masterpiece that twists and turns through many soundscapes".
According to the "tripartite hypothesis", phylogenetic analysis supports at least two separate introductions of sweet potatoes from South America into Polynesia, including one before and one after European contact.
Filming Unlike the previous films, Spielberg shot the entire film in the United States, stating he did not want to be away from his family.
He headed an expedition commissioned by Napoleon III to collect Mexican art and artifacts, later exhibited at the Trocadéro Museum in connection with the International Exposition (1867).
Before the realization of death camps in World War II, the idea that eugenics would lead to genocide was not taken seriously by the average American.
He was reportedly well-liked by the churchgoers for his dramatic performance during the sermons, several of which were published.
Family Azaes was the elder brother of Diaprepes and his other siblings were Atlas and Eumelus, Ampheres and Evaemon, Mneseus and Autochthon, and lastly, Elasippus and Mestor.
The pebble and all its markings are formed naturally by geological processes; no traces of artificial modification have been detected.
319-324 (German abstract) Maja Norberg, Bruket av Haslisägnen i svensk och schweizisk historieskrivning under 1800-talet.
Pagani and Crevecoeur (2019) argue that, given the still open debate on the origin of Afroasiatic, the consensus will probably settle on an intermediate "across-the-Sinai" solution.
Archaeological finds have shown the existence of a Mapuche culture in Chile as early as 600 to 500 BC.
He was buried in his home town of Santa Rosa in the Santa Rosa Odd Fellows Cemetery, which is adjacent to the Santa Rosa Rural Cemetery.
In Plato's Critias, Mestor was the second of the fourth set of twins borne of Poseidon and the mortal, Cleito, and one of the first princes of Atlantis.
Colavito named ancient astronauts as "one of the more elaborate theories in pseudo-history with a racist component”.
From 1996 to 2002, Bürgin studied German literature, folklore, musicology, media studies and sociology at the University of Basel.
De Loys's group suffered diseases and violent encounters with native populations; only four of the 20 members survived.
In Search of Aliens is an American television series that premiered on July 25, 2014, on the H2 channel.
Jaimoukha notes that "Gargarean" is one of many Nakh root words – gergara, meaning, in fact, "kindred" in proto-Nakh.
doi:10.1007/978-3-319-51246-4_7 External links Bjornar Storfjell's account: A personal account of an anthropologist who worked with Thor Heyerdahl.
Notes References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Wilson, J.
In the mid-9th century the so-called Bavarian Geographer wrote that people named Zeriuani had so large kingdom that all Slavic peoples originated from there (or from them).
Austrian criminal jurist and criminologist Hans Gross (1847–1915), regarded as the "Founding Father" of criminal profiling, was also involved in the development of the theory.
Länder und Zeiten des heiligen Königsmordes (Berlin 1931) Indische Reise (Berlin 1931) Kulturgeschichte Afrikas (Zürich 1933) Erlebte Erdteile (unknown location or date) Notes References Bessmertny, Alexander.
This is a wild but beautiful spot, among rough boulders and soft pines, about which the most weird and fantastic tale might be woven.
Transgender people The Southern Poverty Law Center has noted that many of the early supporters of J.
Dick had written to him in the late 1970s to say he thought he might be one of the star people, and that his novel VALIS contained related themes.
Furthermore, there was no method for dating the concretion at the time of the artifact's reported discovery.
Scholars have argued the tale is an example of a black theodicy, with similarities to Gnosticism with Yakub as the Demiurge, as well as the fall of man.
Professor Don G Wyckoff, an archaeologist at the University of Oklahoma, examined the Shawnee stone and noted that it is a soft red Permian sandstone, writing that "the inscription is...
Lehner suggests that a Sphinx cult wasn't established when work ceased prematurely, hence the relative lack of cultural material from the Old Kingdom.
They found that the figures had been fired at temperatures between 450 and 650 °C (842 and 1,202 °F), which contradicted claims that these figures had been fired at temperatures too low for them to be accurately dated.
Sauer of Vanderbilt University says "There is no other book I would recommend more to colleagues--or to anybody interested in learning more about archaeological myths and mysteries." Many reviewers commented favorably on the book's emphasis on using the scientific method.
It is a 19th-century artifact made by a Scandinavian immigrant (possibly a Swede working at the local train depot).
Following the foundation of the State of Israel, the Jews of the former Mandatory Palestine and the Arabs who received Israeli citizenship developed a distinct national identity.
Methods Archaeocryptologists try to find underlying correlations with respect to what is being studied or decoded.
According to the web site, he sees links between the submerged "temple" and both Noah's Flood and the rise in sea level following the end of the Ice Age (the period to which, he told Maltamag, he hopes studies will show the Maltese temples date).
Turkey Mountain Urban Wilderness Area is an approximately 738-acre (299 ha) wilderness park in Tulsa in the US state of Oklahoma.
Constitution, saying that "cabinet ministers and heads of departments may have the privilege of seats upon the floor of the Senate and House of Representatives and may have the right to participate in the debates and discussions upon the various subjects of administration".
Racial theories As the Nazi Party's chief racial theorist, Rosenberg oversaw the construction of a human racial "ladder" that justified Hitler's racial and ethnic policies.
He studied cave art in the Somme and Dordogne valleys as well as in Spain, Portugal, Italy, Ireland, China with Teilhard de Chardin, Ethiopia, British Somali Coast Protectorate, and especially southern Africa.
Another contributor was the historian Louis Charbonneau-Lassay who drew in the traditionalist philosopher René Guénon to contribute.
Additionally, the use of certain Latin abbreviations mirrors conventions introduced in the 1800s rather than those used in antiquity.
Since slaves happy with their condition would not want to leave, he inferred that such people had to be sick, impervious to the natural order of things.
Elijah Sutton was a stonecutter with no other direct link to the event other than his part in carving Wyrick's headstone when he died.
The invaders are remembered as taller and lighter skinned than the islanders...Informants differ on the nature of the conquest.
This led to the Atlantean races, beginning with the black skinned "Rmoahal" and leading to the "copper coloured" Tlavatli, who were ancestor-worshippers, and then the "Toltecs", who had advanced technology including "airships".
Furthermore, examination of skeletons offers evidence of only Polynesian origins for Rapa Nui living on the island after 1680.
Tomás Guevara postulated another hypothesis claiming that early Mapuches dwelled on the coast exploiting the abundant marine resources and only later moved inland following large rivers.
Le Cour would go on to become a precursor to the New Age movement, with his 1937 work The Age of Aquarius.
Leroux, 1875 Bibliographie palèoethnologique 1881 Cuadro arqueológico y etnográfico de la republica mexicana Mexico, Imp.
North Sami (Sami in the North of Swedish Lapland) belong to haplogroup V with 58.6% and South Sami (Sami in the South of Swedish Lapland) within reindeer herding to 37.0% and South Sami outside reindeer herding/other occupation to 8.7%.
Headquartered in Columbus, Georgia, ISAC's activities consisted of holding an annual conference and of publishing books advocating the hyperdiffusionist view.
Identification as hoaxes After the stones were publicized in a critical BBC documentary, they began to draw the attention of the Peruvian authorities and press.
Blanco has also make presentations accompanied by Aretha Franklin and performed for former president George H.
Mussolini refused to allow Italy to return again to this inferiority complex, initially rejecting Nordicism.
It has been noted by critics however that Saunière began renovating his church in 1886, not 1892, and that "there was no evidence that these parchments had ever existed".
From the 1920s Waddell published several works which attempted to prove an Aryan (i.e., Indo-European) origin of the alphabet and the appearance of Indo-European myth figures in ancient Near Eastern mythologies (e.g., Hittite, Sumerian, Babylonian).
Orthodox archaeology and history reject this claim, ascribing most of the lithic sites to more recent migrants to New England, namely, seventeenth-, eighteenth-, and nineteenth-century settlers and farmers.
According to the account given by Plato's character Critias, Evenor was among the original inhabitants of Atlantis born from the earth (autochthons).
Atlantean and Lemurian races Leadbeater and Scott-Elliot provided much more detail than Blavatsky on the lives of the supposed Atlantean and Lemurian root races.
Two other suits were featured in a commercial for Mennen filmed in South Africa and intended for distribution in South America in 2010.
References External links Pyro Boy's official website Nova Teacher's Guide Professional Fireworks Training Strong, by London Grammar
Nevertheless, Lachman has asserted that Blavatsky should not be held accountable to any of the antisemitic and racist ideas that the Ariosophists promoted, commenting that were she alive to witness the development of Ariosophy, she probably would have denounced its ideas regarding race.
In fact, he had logically stated, "you cannot genetically test for marriage." Koppel had a written denial from the Suffolk Crime Lab Director (Robert Genna) asserting that he had NOT stated the James ossuary patina matched that of the Yeshua` ossuary.
Die fremde Welt, das bin ich - Leo Frobenius: Ethnologe, Forschungsreisender, Abenteurer, Edition Trickster im Peter Hammer Verlag, Wuppertal 1998.
Karl Otfried Müller extended his archaeological theories about the Dorians to promote a "Dorian way of life", based on his identification of the Dorians with the qualities of honour, liberty and patriotism.
Declaration of Independence, made similar claims in his 1816 book titled A Star in the West: A Humble Attempt to Discover the Long Lost Ten Tribes of Israel; Preparatory to Their Return to Their Beloved City, Jerusalem.
It was subsequently lent to the Museum of the Cherokee Indian in Cherokee, N.C., where it was on display 2015 - 2021.
Several castles in the surrounding Languedoc region were central to the battle between the Catholic Church and the Cathars at the beginning of the 13th century.
Before World War II (1939–45), scientific racism remained common to anthropology, and was used as justification for eugenics programs, compulsory sterilization, anti-miscegenation laws, and immigration restrictions in Europe and the United States.
19-27 Ferdinand Vetter, Ueber die Sage von der Herkunft der Schwyzer und Oberhasler aus Schweden und Friesland, Bern 1877 Jakob Bächtold, Die Stretlinger Chronik.
The term derives from the Greek δραπέτης (drapetēs, 'a runaway [slave]') and μανία (mania, 'madness, frenzy').
Family Mneseus was the elder brother of Autochton and his other siblings were Atlas and Eumelus, Ampheres and Evaemon, Elasippus and Mestor, and lastly, Azaes and Diaprepes.
De Loys reported that they intended to preserve the animal but the bones decayed and all but one photograph was lost.
There is no evidence for any Solutrean seafaring, much less for any technology that could take humans across the Atlantic during an ice age.
Various interpretations of the Nakh-Urartian relationship exist: another, held by Kassian (2011), is that Urartian and Nakh's common vocabulary instead reflects a history of intense borrowing from Urartian into Nakh.
The path of Enlil's celestial orbit was a continuous, symmetrical circle around the north celestial pole, but those of An and Enki were believed to intersect at various points.
Jane MacLaren Walsh is an anthropologist and researcher at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C.
Family On 16 October 1862, Sclater married Jane Anne Eliza Hunter Blair, daughter of Sir David Hunter-Blair, 3rd Baronet; the couple had a daughter and four sons.
Pearlroth spent 52 years as the feature's researcher, finding and verifying unusual facts for Ripley, and after Ripley's death, for the King Features syndicate editors who took over management of the Believe it or Not!
See also List of topics characterized as pseudoscience Pseudoarchaeology Ancient Aliens Unsealed Alien Files In Search of...
The comic strip Ripley's cartoon series was estimated to have 80 million readers worldwide, and he is said to have received more mail than the President of the United States.
The Gateway of the Sun is known for its intricate carvings, with the central figure known as the front-facing figure or Staff God.
References Sources https://web.archive.org/web/20121105104612/http://tatjana.ingold.ch/index.php?id=goetterspuren http://literaturtest.net/text/buch/rezensio/b/buergin.html Commercial Register: Dr.
The stone matrix containing the artifact is not a geode but a concretion that can be explained by natural processes that can take place over decades or years, not millennia.
Reception Mankind Quarterly has been described as a "cornerstone of the scientific racism establishment", a "white supremacist journal", an "infamous racist journal", and "scientific racism's keepers of the flame".
The documentary was both directed and written by Fred Warshofsky, who also wrote and directed the previous film In Search of Ancient Mysteries.
Although "Aryan" and related terms largely disappeared from scholarship following the downfall of Nazi Germany in 1945, the underlying paradigm of heroic, migrating invaders remained into the 1960s, both in mainstream historiography and in explicitly right-wing and Neo-Nazi works.
Henri Édouard Prosper Breuil (28 February 1877 – 14 August 1961), often referred to as Abbé Breuil (French pronunciation: [abe bʁœj]), was a French Catholic priest, archaeologist, anthropologist, ethnologist and geologist.
She later claimed that in Constantinople she developed a friendship with a Hungarian opera singer named Agardi Metrovitch, whom she first encountered when saving him from being murdered.
McMullen is also the author of Running Bear published in 1996, Two Faces published in 1997, and Born Many Times published in 1999.
As recorded by Josephus, Manetho describes the beginning of Hyksos rule thus: A people of ignoble origin from the east, whose coming was unforeseen, had the audacity to invade the country, which they mastered by main force without difficulty or even battle.
There were also variations in how the vowels were presented Óleifr was shown as Oleb or Uleb, Hákon as Jakun and Akun, Arnfastr as Arfast and Fastr as Fost.
The James Ossuary's authenticity has been called into question, and Oded Golan, one of its past owners, was charged with fraud in connection to the artifact, but exonerated on all counts of forgery.
AllMusic stated in its review of the album, it "does a more than passable job at competing with the acknowledged Scandinavian masters of the genre." Track listing All songs written by Francesco Bucci, except where noted.
See also Ancient astronaut theories Ezekiel 1 Ezekiel Airship The Manna Machine Notes External links About Josef F.
Criticism Race-norming has been criticized as racist towards black people and has been compared to eugenics and pseudoscientific racism.
Moreover, the form róþs-, from which Ruotsi and Rusʹ originate, is not derived directly from ON róðr, but from its earlier Proto-Norse form roðz (rothz).
"Because he [Sagan] was so glad someone was taking time to investigate von Däniken's contentions", Sagan offered to write the foreword.
Incompatible with Nazi ideology, the Count's fervent Judaic positivity and total dearth of antisemitism the Nazis could only attempt to ignore or minimize away in the silence of hypocrisy.
For his 14 surgical procedures towards that goal, he held a world record for "most permanent transformations to look like an animal".
It is also notable that in the Hawaiian Islands, the ancestral homeland is called Kahiki, a cognate of Tahiti, where at least part of the Hawaiian population came from.
While Blavatsky had emphasized its growth among the native Indian population rather than among the British elite, she moved into a comfortable bungalow in the elite Bombay suburb of Breach Candy, which she said was more accessible to Western visitors.
"The reasons for its late appearance", Cremo wrote in the Introduction, "have more to do with the time it takes to research and write such a book rather than any desire to avoid a detailed discussion of a Vedic alternative to Darwinism".
These facilities generally promote pseudoscientific biblical literalist creationism and contest evolutionary science.
As a result of this reputation, Circassians in Europe and Northern America were often characterised as ideals of feminine beauty in poetry and art.
According to that view, White Serbia and White Croatia were designated as western Serbia and western Croatia, and were situated in the west from some hypothetical lands that had same names and that presumably existed in the east.
Elected to the state’s house of representatives during 1821, Atwater endorsed internal improvements, including legislation that authorized the Ohio and Erie Canal.
That the mythology of Egypt and Peru represented the original religion of Atlantis, which was sun-worship.
Sahel/Sahara Igor Diakonoff proposed the Eastern Saharan region, specifically the southern fringe of the Sahara as possible location of the Afroasiatic homeland.
However, before they left, the kachinas taught some of their ceremonies to a few faithful young men and showed them how to make the masks and costumes.
Eumelus, succeeded his father Admetus as the King of Pherae, and his mother was Alcestis, daughter of King Pelias of Iolcus.
Starting with the manifesto, the National Fascist Party took a course considerably more in line with the ideology of German Nazism.
2500 BC), have inspired speculation and folklore about their origins and purpose since ancient times.
As a result, "Mongolian imbecility" constituted an atavistic genetic throwback, wherein the supposed ancestral genetic traits of the individual reappeared, having been "lost" throughout generations of ancestors and evolutionary change.
His popularisations met stiff criticism in professional journals, but his continued appeal among theory hobbyists is summed up by a reviewer of The Problem of Atlantis (1924) in The Geographical Journal: "Mr.
To elitists, strong nations were composed of white people who were successful at expanding their empires, and as such, these strong nations would survive in the struggle for dominance.
Priest provides three pieces of evidence for why the Bible justifies the enslavement of black people.
He found that the employment of multiple criteria can yield very high rates of accuracy, and even that individual methods can be accurate more than 80 percent of the time.
Mark Jarzombek, Architecture of First Societies: A Global Perspective, (New York: Wiley & Sons, August 2013) Feder, Kenneth L.
Semir Osmanagić (born June 1, 1960), also known as Sam Osmanagich, is a Bosnian-American businessman and author.
The document was written by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which was not a powerful arm of the bureaucracy at the time.
In historical linguistics, the homeland or Urheimat (, OOR-hye-maht; from German ur- 'original' and Heimat 'home') of a proto-language is the region in which it was spoken before splitting into different daughter languages.
Its stated purpose is to defend "the cultural, ethnic, and racial interests of Western European peoples" and examine "contemporary political, social, and demographic trends that impact the posterity of Western Civilization".
Aryanism is an ideology of racial supremacy which views the supposed Aryan race as a distinct and superior racial group which is entitled to rule the rest of humanity.
Al-Moqaddasi (died late 4th century AH/10th century CE) considers Azerbaijan as part of the 8th division of lands.
Criticism and analysis There are several pseudoscientific theories for the artifact's origin, among them: An ancient advanced civilization (such as Atlantis); Prehistoric ancient astronauts; Human time travelers from the future leaving or losing the artifact during a visit to the past.
Responses by sociologists Colin Woodard, writing for the Smithsonian Magazine in December 2009, has suggested that the "Bosnian pyramid" phenomenon may be a societal reaction to the widespread destruction and horrors of the Bosnian War which ended in 1995.
In 1880 Waddell joined the British Indian Army and served as a medical officer with the Indian Medical Service (I.M.S), subsequently he was stationed in India and the Far East (Tibet, China and Burma).
However, where the document deviated from Nazi ideology was in its use of Confucianism and the metaphor of the patriarchical family.
Further, the overall tone of the work is far superior to that exhibited in ordinary creationist literature.
It developed among the Dalmatian humanists, and was also considered by early modern writers, like Matija Petar Katančić, Mavro Orbini and Pavao Ritter Vitezović.
[The title track Atlantis is] one of Ra's most epic pieces, which is free or 'space' jazz at its most invigorating.
McMullen is the author of One White Crow which was published in 1995 and describes his long life experience as intuitive archaeologist.
The show examines biblical stories and tries to find proof for them by exploring the Holy Land looking for archaeological evidence, personal inferences, deductions, and interviews with scholars and experts.
Trails on the mountain were opened up by the local farming population in the early 19th century; today, the site is under the administration of the Tijuca National Park.
The Smithsonian Institution has repeatedly stated it has no records of the people or project described, and modern reporting characterizes the episode as a local hoax that later fed into Internet-era conspiracy theories about suppressed archaeology and alleged cover-ups.
The 1968 Mormon Expedition A group of Mormons came to believe that the metal plates that Móricz claimed were in the cave were the same golden plates described in the book of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Anthony considers it likely that the Maykop spoke a Northern Caucasian language not ancestral to Indo-European.
The Mongol in Our Midst: A Study of Man and His Three Faces is the title of the pseudo-scientific book written by British physician Francis Graham Crookshank and published in 1924.
According to the Västgöta theory, Birka as a name meant "merchant town," and could refer to any such town in ancient Sweden.
According to The Cambridge History of the Kurds: Many different interpretations have been made in explaining the origin of the word ‘Kurd’ to this day, but the interpreters often have not dwelled on the word ‘Kırd’, the self-designation the Kırmanj (Zazas) use in certain regions.
Noah's Ark Zoo Farm, located in Wraxall, Somerset, whilst not strictly speaking a museum, represents creationism as scientific fact.
In a 2008 essay published by the Linnean Society of London, Marie-Christine Skuncke interpreted Linnaeus' statements as reflecting a view that "Europeans' superiority resides in "culture", and that the decisive factor in Linnaeus' taxa was "culture", not race".
Mainstream geologists and scientists are in agreement that the "inscription" is the result of erosion and that the "face" is a product of pareidolia.
A traditional Norfolk rhyme goes as follows: "Doddiman, doddiman, put out your horn, Here comes a thief to steal your corn." Alfred Watkins, the 'inventor' of ley lines, thought that in the words "dodman" and the builder's "hod" there was a survival of an ancient British term for a surveyor.
In general, the foundation of cities by various civic developers such as Nimrod, Belus, Semiramis, and Belochus all appear within the Syriac literature.
The abrupt dome itself is the result of the more durable granite having resisted the aforementioned weathering more so than the softer gneiss.
Tristram Engelhardt, Jr., and James McCartney, eds, Concepts of Health and Disease in Medicine: Interdisciplinary Perspectives (Boston: Addison-Wesley, 1980).
During the flight, Honey discovers from the cockpit crew that the flying hours of this aircraft are twice those of any other Reindeer in service, and are close to his predicted failure time.
A popular Book of Mormon geography model places the scene of the Jaredite arrival and subsequent development in lands around the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Mesoamerica.
He concludes, "The notion, which seems well established in Turkey, that the Armenians were a wandering tribe without a home, who never had a state of their own, is of course entirely without any foundation in fact.
He said it was okay to say the yellow people had built it, but I wasn't allowed to mention radio carbon dates ...
One of these landforms was the River Cary; Maltwood stated the curves of this river drew the outline of a lion.
The text was then revised by Ashley Montagu and the revised statement was published in 1951, as well as a book detailing the criticisms in 1952.
He even interpreted a mummy from a Torres Strait island as definitely being indicative of an Egyptian influence.
The journal has been criticised as being both overtly political and strongly right-leaning, supporting eugenics, racist or fascist.
Pseudohistorical interpretations have labeled it as evidence of pre-Columbian contact with Medieval Europe.
Brown's account has been disputed by local residents, who state that they saw the stone before 1964, and have challenged other elements of his statements.
Tembetás, lower lip piercings usually associated with indigenous cultures in Brazil, findings have been reported in Central Chile with scholars differing if these elements the result of migrations or some other type of ancient contact with the Argentine Northwest.
For a time in the 1930s the adventurist had a weekly radio show out of New York City on Sunday evenings.
Other purported rune stones in the region are modern creations, or misinterpreted Native American rock art.
It is neither Hebrew nor Arabic, Persian, Dari or Pahlavi; they still call it the language of Kürdim.
Taylor regarded the "pyramid inch" to be 1/25 of the "sacred cubit", ancient unit based on the forearm length from the tip of the middle finger to the bottom of the elbow, whose existence had earlier been postulated by Isaac Newton.
Trustees had acquired about five acres of land, and for £22,000 had commissioned John Davies to build a new college.
In contrast, a corporate university typically limits scope to providing job-specific, indeed company-specific, training for the managerial personnel of the parent corporation.
Bridges Academy, Los Angeles, is a college prep school (Grades 4–12) serving twice-exceptional (or "2e") learners—students who are gifted but who also have learning differences such as, but not exclusively, Autism, AD/HD, executive functioning challenges, processing deficits, and mild dyslexia.
Children of IQ 180+ who are retained in the regular classroom are even more seriously at risk and experience severe emotional distress." These accelerated children should be placed together in one class if possible.
Educational leadership Shatskii also became an important educational leader in the Soviet Union, developing programs for schools across Soviet Russia in his capacity as one of the leaders of the pedagogical section of the State Academic Council (Glavny Uchyony Sovet).
Because the program focuses on serving higher levels of potential, very few students qualify for both the English and the math class.
As of 2024, half attend Governor's School West (GSW) at Greensboro College, and half attend Governor's School East (GSE) at Meredith College in Raleigh.
The Advanced Academy of Georgia was a residential joint high school and early college entrance program at the University of West Georgia in Carrollton, Georgia.
Soon after their reports were published two educational pioneers in the use of Internet technologies, Hiltz and Turoff, linked education directly with this pioneering work.
General requirements for obtaining a Certificate of competency Seagoing service The cadet must have approved seagoing service for not less than one year as part of an accredited training program, which includes training onboard along with an accredited training record book.
SUPERCAMP is an international educational summer camp program founded in 1982 which introduces students to accelerated learning academic skills and life skills.
The nonprofit organization seeks to increase college completion and student career readiness by utilizing its technology platform to connect college students with professionals.
Although there are apparent similarities in methodology and praxis, there are also key methodological and theological differences between the Catechesis of the Good Shepherd and Godly Play.
In practice a mono-methodical approach can be barely found; approaches/ concepts of action predominate which include more than the three classic methods.
Open and networked research Some researchers have used networked learning methods to collaborate and support each other's research.
Early intensive behavioural intervention Early intensive behavioural intervention (EIBI) is an intensive, ABA-based behavioural intervention for young children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and is one of the more commonly used treatments for ASD.
Reimer (1910–1998) was an education theorist who authored several books on educational policy and was a proponent of deschooling.
The colonial era met the Igbos as the leading exporters of palm oil and kernel, craftsmen, traders, merchants, cottage industrialists, et cetra.
In this context, “reading” refers to “reading comprehension”, “decoding” is simply recognition of written words and “language comprehension” means understanding language, whether spoken or written.
Due to her lack of fluency in English, Michel agreed that Auguste Coulon, a polyglot she had met at the Autonomie Club, could be the school's secretary and language teacher.
Although expressed needs are difficult to address, educators need to treat them positively in order to maintain a caring relationship with learners.
It may also be used facetiously, to suggest that formal education is not of practical value compared with "street" experience.
The children also have a very large measure of control over the environment; the adults in the school defer their need for a tidy environment to the child’s need to experience cause and effect; to experience why order is desirable.
The main component of the admissions process is a three-hour examination taken online that contains questions in both mathematics and science.
See also Self-Taught Higher Education Examinations (China) National Institute for Lifelong Education Academic Credit Bank System References External links National Institute for Lifelong Education (Republic of Korea) English page
Macondistas The term "Macondistas" refers to authors and members of the writing community who are alumni of the Macondo Writers' Workshop.
Alderson Broaddus College in Philippi, West Virginia, US, sponsored the organization, which moved its offices to the A-B campus in 1976.
Most volunteering activities are coordinated through numerous clubs and organizations within the program as well as through student life.
This included organizing language/cultural classes, outings, speech contests, meals, medical care, guest speakers, and enforcing discipline which included trying to prevent (in vain) the students from sneaking out of the campus in the evening to enjoy the Taipei nightlife.
He is the author, among other works, of: A Escola e o Conhecimento: fundamentos epistemológicos e políticos Nos Labirintos da Moral, com Yves de La Taille Não Espere Pelo Epitáfio: Provocações Filosóficas Não Nascemos Prontos!
Wang helped create the bill in an effort to generate a new revenue stream, to make up for money lost to severe cuts in state funding.
Doyle would use discarded materials such as metal roofing, plywood, and house paint for his art, exhibiting a rudimentary, but unique art style.
He was raised in East Los Angeles and considers the city a huge influence on him as a person and as an artist.
Open English has also secured corporate partnerships with more than 2,000 enterprise clients and has a global network of over 2,000 native English-speaking teachers.
His art frequently depicted the people and places on the urban margins, with Black identity, injustice, policing, drugs, and poverty common themes.
They "...(1) need more structure, [and] (2) they work better with an informal, tactile-kinesthetic design..." Adventure therapy as treatment is equally effective for adjudicated youth and other adolescent populations.
Students must already have been tested and officially identified as eligible for their application to go through.
Related outdoor activities A ropes course can be considered a challenging outdoor personal development and team-building activity.
Last years and death Ziolkowski continued his work until he died of acute pancreatitis in 1982 at the age of 74 in Sturgis, South Dakota.
After the school experienced a significant decline in the number of Black and Hispanic students since its founding due to changes in the admissions policy, in 2020 the school rededicated itself to diversity, even relaxing some of its previous admission standards.
Countries such as Australia and those from South America and Africa also began sending small numbers of Study Tour participants.
Subsequently in 1938, Andersson joined the Composers' Forum of Los Angeles, a Federal Music Project–sponsored group.
Through the use of experimental and unconventional curricula and offering choice to students as to what and how they will study, such institutions distinguish themselves from traditional faculties.
For the same reason, South Korean government is not actively supporting alternative schools financially.
See also Georgia Academy of Arts, Mathematics, Engineering and Science References External links The Advanced Academy of Georgia
A summer camp is a supervised program for children or teenagers conducted during the summer months in some countries.
They have three different types of courses: Business specific courses, organizational learning and communication classes, and management and executive training.
As told, this painting is supposed to inspire children to religious feelings, even though they are not able to understand the meaning of the painting yet.
In July 2018, Boston University announced the removal of Betof following an allegation of sexual misconduct involving a Boston University undergraduate student.
This approach – known as using the "environment as an integrating context" for learning – uses the local environment as a framework for teaching state and district education standards.
A variety of learning resources are available on WikiEducator: direct instructional resources such as lesson plans and full courses, as well as learning-support resources, such as individual school portals and funding proposals.
Over the course of two years, students complete required five year high school curriculum along with some university coursework.
In 2007, the group organized an alternative celebration of the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown, Virginia, saying that the official celebration did not give enough emphasis to the Christian perspective of the settlers.
One study entitled "Intelligibility of speech produced during simultaneous communication", 12 hearing impaired individuals were asked to audit the audio samples of 4 hearing sign language experts who had produced recordings of a Simultaneous Communication (SC) sample and a Speech Alone (SA) sample.
Self-organized orders or attractors thus arise from feedback processes between a micro and a macro level.
He recounted working there through "years of misery" due to an intense dislike of his supervisor, but being unable to quit his position due to the mass unemployment and poor job market of the Great Depression.
How to help these children Numerous programs have been created in order to help children at risk reach their full potential.
3 Surgeons' Square David Craigie taught anatomy from 1818 and later taught clinical medicine and practice of medicine.
Benefits Both direct instruction and constructivist activities can be compatible and effective in the achievement of learning goals.
UDIMA has signed a total of 96 international university cooperation agreements and 75 Erasmus+ bilateral agreements and belongs to 4 international networks and associations.
Not long afterwards, following the liberalisation of access to English universities, the work of the dissenting academies could become mainstream.
dissertation, The Pennsylvania State University Dissertation Abstracts International, No AAT 3157520 Braxton, S.
And the small number of hours students are required to spend volunteering can cause problems for community organizations and their clients.
The Leonard Bernstein Center was established in April 1992, and initiated extensive school-based research, resulting in the Bernstein Model.
The review found no evidence to support suggestions that home education was linked to forced marriage, servitude or child trafficking.
Transportation Travel to Esprit is via the provincial Quebec Route 148, the Cycloparc PPJ bicycle trail or by the Ottawa River itself.
The academic curriculum at semester schools tends to be college preparatory, interdisciplinary, and experiential.
Terman's studies have to date been the most extensive on high-functioning children, and are still quoted in psychological literature today.
The nonlexical pathway is thought to be more active and constructive as it assembles and selects the correct subword units from various potential combinations.
Christmas in AKG A theme-week precedes Christmas every year, but years themselves organize gifting events according to the desires of students.
The students of the Adventist education system within the Inter-America Division have access to the AVL.
SuperCamp is run by the Quantum Learning Network (QLN), a California-based educational organization.
Prior to that time, the kindergarten and first-grade classes met at the Park Avenue Synagogue and the rest of the school, grades 2–8, was located on the Upper West Side at 15 West 86th Street, in the building of the Society for the Advancement of Judaism.
One at the start of the school year, one a week before winter break, two during spring, and one in June.
One important degree of the dual education system is the high standard of education provided by the German government in Germany.
Concerned with the decay of society, he developed his theories based on his belief that human beings were inherently good as they were closest to nature when born, but society and its institutions corrupted them and denaturalized them.
A nature trail (sometimes nature walk, educational path, educational trail, or interpretive trail) is a specially developed hiking trail or footpath that runs through the countryside, along which there are marked stations or stops next to points of natural, technological or cultural interest.
The setting is designed to allow the student to continue progress in the regular curriculum to meet the goals set out by the IEP and to allow students to receive services and modifications designed to help students address problem behavior.
Showing skills beyond the reach of individuals can cause frustration and work counter to the purpose of VSM.
Lebenswelt is characterized above all by an inexhaustible supply of intersubjectively agreed symbols, which makes the human being an "animal symbolicum".
Apprenticeships Instructus Skills also develops UK apprenticeship frameworks and supplies research statistics for apprenticeship and workplace employment in the UK.
Students may well graduate with no industrial oriented learning experience prior to their first job.
References External links Images of Doyle's art Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine Biography from Raw Vision
Lessons can vary in form of Bible translation ranging from the King James Version and New King James to the New American Standard Bible and New International Version.
This “painted archive” corpus is valid as a first representation of a community writing its own history and not just showcasing it as a collection of images.
Scientific research The claims associated with this organization have underlying pseudoscientific ideas.
The following four levels are to be regarded as the minimum of what must be taken into account in order not to systematically disregard essential effects.
To help meet those overwhelming needs of students, particularly those in poor neighborhood, the ethic of care philosophy dictates that schools should be full-service institutions.
It was created by Law 1/2006, of 14 June, on the Recognition of the Private University "Universidad a Distancia de Madrid".
Descartes, a paixão pela razão See also Christian philosophy Philosophy of religion == References ==
In April 2006, the prototype was moved onto a hosted server with the financial assistance of Commonwealth of Learning (COL).
Outward Bound Costa Rica (OBCR) (formerly known as "Costa Rica Rainforest Outward Bound School" or CRROBS) is a non-profit experiential learning and outdoor education organization based in San José, Costa Rica.
Ben-Zion, also known as Ben-Zion Weinman (July 8, 1897 – January 23, 1987) was a Russian-born American painter, printmaker, sculptor, educator, and poet.
They began formal apprenticeships with a wage at the age of 13, whereupon they produced goods for the school.
Later, in the 1980s, the launching of Sputnik in October 1957, and the fear that the Soviet Union would eclipse the United States in scientific knowledge was ascribed as an important reason for the start of the program.
References External links Official website Write Ups — Rafael Cardenas Photography Rafael Cardenas on Instagram Rafael Cardenas on YouTube
Other uses University of Cambridge The intellectual society at Cambridge University known as the Apostles was founded in 1820 as the Conversazione Society by George Tomlinson.
The "Scottie Road" Free School experiment took place while the world-wide "free-schooling/de-schooling" ideology was at its height.
The Association is based at The Royal Mews, Hampton Court in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames.
Mosaic is overseen by a national Advisory Board: Mosaic's Founder Chairman (after O'Brien) was Princess Badiya bint El Hassan of Jordan.
Research has shown that highly gifted children are different not only because of higher IQ scores, but that there are cognitive differences in the ways that they think, learn, and relate to others.
Ideally, we get educated to transform us from the ordinary, unaware state of being, to a transformed and enlightened state of being.
This movement was led by the AHRC, formed in 1949 as a parent-led organization to advocate for individuals with developmental disabilities.
Debates on the practical use of presumed competence center around the subjective interpretation of the term "conclusive data." Particularly when it comes to making complex educational decisions about programs for individuals with disabilities.
However, HASS courses often receive lower governmental funding and may have lower reputations within universities.
The third theory is "metaphoric transfer" – the learner applies similar underlying principles to other areas and situations (e.g.
A wide variety of elective courses may be taken in addition to required classes after the first semester.
Kimama Hof Kimama Hof was established in 2014 in the Hadassah Neurim Youth Village, near the city of Netanya with an emphasis on nature and sea activities.
The National Science Foundation (NSF) In Nigeria has made conscious efforts to encourage girls to innovate, invent, and build through the "invent it, build it" program sponsored by NNPC.
Presently, camps are held every summer at several college campuses throughout the United States, including Stanford University, UCLA, Loyola Marymount University, UC Berkeley, Wake Forest University, Loyola University Chicago, Kent State University, University of South Florida, and Brown University.
The resulting fame, as well as his familiarity with the Black Hills, prompted several Lakota Chiefs, including Lakota elder Henry Standing Bear, to write to him about a monument honoring Crazy Horse.
Buehler was invited to give a TEDx talk about his experiences combating police abuse at the Harvard Graduate School of Education on April 12, 2014.
The nonlexical route allows the correct reading of nonwords as well as regular words that follow spelling-sound rules, but not exception words.
Non-denominational and free of charge, Shalva offers a range of therapies, inclusive educational frameworks, recreational programs, vocational training, respite and family support.
The former headed to Salt Lake City in March to hear excerpts from The Sun-Worshipper and Dreams of Solfomby Francinsadit played by the Utah State Symphony Orchestra conducted by Sample.
A deck cadet or trainee navigational deck officer or nautical apprentice is an apprentice who has the responsibility for the safe navigation including the basic duties of a deck officer on board a ship.
While at Girton, Lady Dorothy, who later became a prominent suffragette, wrote regular letters to her mother, which remain one of the best sources for Anna's college days.
It would be no more feasible if it were attempted by means of alternative institutions built on the style of present schools.
The traditional university is an educational institution which grants both undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in a variety of subjects, as well as conducting original scientific research.
Boston Research Center for the 21st Century Publisher's promotion Critical Lessons: What Our Schools Should Teach.
All members were searchable on the college's Public Register, which was an online database that enables anyone to easily confirm the qualifications of any compulsory tradesperson or apprentice before hiring them to fix their toilet, wire their house, change their brakes or cut/colour their hair.
Children of politically repressed families were given special consideration, such as those of Émile Henry.
Manning's tenure as president, the school's campus grew to include a dormitory, a gymnasium, a library, and a science building.
One would be the STEM Education Centre, while the other would be a Sufficient Economy Learning Centre.
Composition The Council has 15 members: One official from each provincial or territorial jurisdiction, who is responsible for the apprenticeship programs in each area, and two representatives from the Federal government: one from the Department of Employment, and one from Social Development Canada.
It provides parents, educators, administrators, and policymakers with the research on acceleration and the tools to advocate for their brightest students.
Advantages and disadvantages Advantages Some of the advantages of this form of learning is that students at the very least set the pace of their work.
Art practice Doyle continued his art practice in the 1940s, showing his paintings on sheet metal at first in his yard that he called his "Outdoor World-Wide-International Gallery".
These are called "Phases", and correspond with the physical/emotional/intellectual readiness for the lessons of each phase.
Many chose to sit for the qualification of Licentiateship of the RCSEd which became available from 1770, while others went into practice with no formal institutional qualification.
United States The following are sourced from the Alternative Education Resource Organization (AERO) and the Consortium for Innovative Environments in Learning (CIEL).
Many students are not used to working independently, creating the need to provide guidance as to the use of this kind of center, at least in the beginning.
Safety systems The safety equipment for each participant consists of a harness, a lanyard and a belay device.
The purpose of such trails is to increase knowledge, sometimes this is linked to tourism and recreation or the raising of environmental awareness.
Born and raised in Montana, he worked on cattle ranches before serving in the United States Marine Corps during World War II.
In 1970 after the "European Nature Conservation Year" in Germany, the first Swiss nature trails were also established.
In Germany and Great Britain Early Excellence Centres are widely discussed programs of compensatory education.
At the elementary school level, environmental education can take the form of science enrichment curriculum, natural history field trips, community service projects, and participation in outdoor science schools.
Those who have not officially been assigned to a rating are officially referred to as "undesignated" or "non-rates." See also U.S.
The Université populaire de Caen (Popular University or People's University of Caen) is a free university created in October 2002 by Michel Onfray in the north-western French city of Caen.
Worldview challenges: Coetzee (2023) critiques dominant coaching worldviews and calls for greater coherence in systemic strategies, situating STC within this debate.
In Edinburgh, a survey found that more exposure to green space helps increase self-esteem in young children.
In the UK, Australia and New Zealand, the phrases "University of Life" and "School of Hard Knocks" may be used interchangeably.
1990s Since the development of the Internet as a significant medium for access to information and communication, the practice of networked learning has tended to focus on its use.
Le mouvement ouvrier en Languedoc: Syndicalistes et socialistes de l'Herault de la foundation des bourses du travail a la naissance du Parti communiste (Midi et son histoire).
Bridge watchkeeping The cadet must have performed watchkeeping duties in Bridge during the required service, bridge watchkeeping activities under the supervision of the master or a trained officer for not less than six months.
Life He was born into the Irish clan Mac Conmara at Cratloe (Irish: An Chreatalach), County Clare (Contae an Chláir).
Presence in the United States As of 2021, there are 250 affiliate schools in 31 states and 25 countries.
The program was adopted widely in schools in the UK and appeared on many UK government websites as of 2006, although in 2018 Ofsted, the UK schools inspectorate, singled out Brain Gym as a "gimmick" and warned schools against using it.
Por Uma Vida Plena Liderança em Foco Ética e Vergonha na Cara!, com Clóvis de Barros Filho Pensar Bem Nos Faz Bem!
medical, business, and law schools placed Pomona 17th for medical schools, 22nd for business schools, and 14th for law schools.
Ein Erinneringsbuch an Herwarth Walden und die Künstler aus dem Sturmkreis (1954) and Herwarth Walden.
In 2014, Polish Children's Fund together with University of Warsaw and Copernicus Science Centre organises EUCYS finals, which are being held in Warsaw.
Initially, Abrome was an online education service, but as of 2016 it is now an alternative, progressive school in Austin, TX, that operates free of teachers, classrooms, testing, homework, or grades.
Student-centered learning puts students' interests first, acknowledging student voice as central to the learning experience.
This data further explains why regular words, that both follow spelling-sound rules and have been stored in long-term memory, are read faster since both pathways "agree" about the issue of pronunciation.
This idea of “whole” underpins the system from which Pető thought that children with motor disorders would benefit.
The Inspectorate of Schools insisted that the Moot be removed from the timetable and that attendance at class be compulsory.
In 1894 Franklin became the secretary of the PNEU and went on speaking tours to major cities in America, Europe and South Africa.
Five of the programs have been privately revived and are functioning members of the National Conference of Governor's Schools as of 2014.
Return to composition While Andersson was on a trip to San Francisco in April 1936, his piano improvisations caught the attention of Pierre Monteux, who was Sample's conducting teacher at the time.
One of the suspects in the first episode of Columbo season 3 ("Lovely but Lethal") runs a fat farm, which is presented in the episode as a kind of cult.
Once again, most influential was his 1971 call for advanced technology to support "learning webs":The operation of a peer-matching network would be simple.
Academic awards and recognitions Lenart has been on the Illinois Honor Roll consecutively for many years, and issued the Award for Academic Excellence every year, which recognizes sustained excellence in elementary schools.
2020 Malala Fund Education Champion 2021 Tällberg-SNF-Eliasson Emerging Leader Prize 2021 BBC 100 Women 2022 UN Young Activists Award 2023 CEU Open Society Prize 2023 Global Citizen Prize for Human Rights 2023 Muhammad Ali Humanitarian Award 2024 Women’s Excellence Award, World Economic Forum.
Background Its head, Bryn Purdy, had worked at Summerhill and had also been invited to join Wills in his Bromley project.
English Dissenters in this context were Nonconformist Protestants who could not in good conscience subscribe (i.e.
From 1936 until 1942, he was a founding member of "The Ten" expressionist artist group, which also included the artists Mark Rothko, Louis Harris (artist), Adolph Gottlieb, Ralph Rosenborg, Louis Schanker, Joseph Solman, Nahum Tschacbasov, and Ilya Bolotowsky.
He stopped attending Mass, and described "badly singing awfully blasphemous words at God" for hours during hard shifts at work.
Students dress up in their hall colors and meet up at West Campus to partake in a series of competitions between the residence halls.
It was established by proactive parents inspired by the Montessori Method, introduced to them by Willem van Benthum.
Gifford worked in the luminist style, and has also been considered a member of the Hudson River School art movement.
Eldorado Emerson Private School (also known as Eldorado School and Emerson Choice Academy) was a co-educational private school in El Modena, Orange, California, United States.
In EIBI, the core deficits of ASD are addressed through individualized intervention programs tailored to the child's current skills such as communication and social skills.
The first year in Costa Rica he focused on learning first-hand indigenous culture, rainforest ecology, and Costa Rican geography.
Accreditation The academy is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges and is a member of the Association of Independent Schools of New England.
Effective education system: Gaps in knowledge between nations can exist when individual countries invest too little in primary school education, which acts as the base for the entire education system.
The Association's special needs classes operate at its indoor school, located at the Stockyard, Bushy Park.
Under the latter assumption, the risk is that the teacher speaks too little to the student (or, in an extreme form of the argument, the teacher may not speak to the student at all).
Opposition The American and British delegations were the only ones who opposed the use of oralism as a sole method of instruction, but were unsuccessful in their efforts to overturn the Milan resolutions.
The word is mainly used by homeschoolers, especially unschoolers, to refer to the transition process that children and parents go through when they leave the school system in order to start homeschooling.
Learning Pathways Student's navigate around the platform in their social context with fellow learners, while teachers can interact with them and, for example, view their learning progress.
Berryman and his colleague Sonja Stewart, a professor of Christian education at Western Theological Seminary, co-developed a series of lessons plans, the first of which were published in the book Young Children and Worship.
Highbury College was a dissenting academy, that is, a school or college set up by English Dissenters.
The general assembly elects the general committee responsible for ECHA's life in between two general assemblies.
Career as educator In 1907–1910, Cobb taught history and Latin at Robert College in Constantinople (now Istanbul), followed by several years teaching in the US and Europe.
This combined Mosaic network support with that of The Prince's British Asian Trust with a gala dinner and speech by The Prince of Wales.
She said that she watches a video that consists of her best dives along with encouragement from family and coaches.
This meeting was the first time ever that it had been held in an Arab country, and was put together by two different organizations, the Mohamed VI Foundation for Environmental Protection and the World Environmental Education Congress Permanent Secretariat in Italy.
In 1848, after public service as Secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Education, Mann was elected to the United States House of Representatives (1848–1853).
Insufficient training of teachers on inclusive education also leads to stigma to students with special education.
Teachers are expected to be trained—and, ideally, certified—in the Godly Play method, in order to teach Godly Play.
The floating school model has been recognised in Bangladesh’s National Adaptation Plan and in international climate adaptation literature as a replicable approach for education access in flood-affected regions.
The charity ran The Brilliant Tutoring Programme from 2020-2023, as part of the government’s National Tutoring Programme, which was designed to support students whose learning was disrupted by COVID-19 school closures.
ATYP's first two years cover pre-AP content; the third year focuses at the AP English Language and Composition / AP English Literature and Composition and Pre-Calculus / AP Statistics level.
His thoughts were closely aligned with Illich because neither was convinced that school was where students learned everything they needed to know.
A Learning Experience Platforms (LXP) is an online learning approach that foregrounds the student experience.
Training and being responsible for an animal can foster empathy, emotional intelligence, communication, and self-control in inmates; however, the results of studies done so far must be taken with caution as the methodological quality of existing studies is limited.
Skills Exchange - A database of people willing to list their skills and the basis on which they would be prepared to share or swap them with others.
ArtAbilitation is an international conference platform for people with disabilities and a movement that started in 2006 as coined/originated by Anthony (aka Tony) Brooks.
In law, it usually refers to rigorous legal work opportunities undertaken by law students for law school credit, similar to that of a junior attorney.
It also provides curriculum delivery to students in Years 9–12 studying a single subject not available at their home school.
The one-year course typically consists of 36 weeks of training, with 18 weeks spent at university learning about theory and practice and 18 weeks spent on school placements putting theory into practice.
The Turing Trust is a British charitable organisation that supports education in sub-Saharan Africa through the reuse of computers and improvement of associated teacher training.
She was placed in charge of the home-making element of a network of boys' and girls' clubs, organized under the Cooperative Extension Service.
The style of the uniform—cocked hats, relatively short vented waistcoats, fall-front breeches, buttoned haversacks, canteens, and leather garters—is based on styles worn in New England in the 1770s.
This is the first time African Fulbright Scholars initiative has been featured, making Grain de Sel Togo a pioneer of leadership and scholarship program in Togo and in Africa.
The scheme is similar to the Rolex Awards for Enterprise, which supports scientists, conservationists and explorers.
It decisively advocates quality control in international student exchange and generates, together with its members, common criteria that serve as a means of orientation for all those interested in youth exchange.
The last observation may confuse beginners - thus it is suggested to use Mama scripts only as advance topics in CS courses.
"Breaching Cultural Worlds with the Village School: Educational Visions, Local Initiative, and Rural Experience at S.T.
Those design factors prevented adult access to a very large extent." Results Mitra has summarised the results of his experiment as follows.
Governance and Political Inclusion (Accountability) One of The Youth Café's strategic objective is, ensuring “a transparent, democratic and accountable environment” which in turn leads to, “political stability, effective governance and reduced fragility”.
We commit to supporting Post-SSEAYP Programme Activities (PPA) Aimed to promote mutual understanding, Harmony and world peace.
Brad Hounkpati, had served as Board Member, Member Database Administrator, Advocacy Director, Communication Officer, WebMaster, and Vice President with the Georgia Chapter of the Fulbright Association, a community of over 1,200 thousands scholars from over 110 countries.
Concentration in specialized areas of producing come next, and The Producer’s Spiritual Journey runs concurrently and rounds out the program.
For some countries, the presence of international students represents an indicator of quality of their education system.
See also Online school Coding bootcamp Distance education Career and Technical Education Educational technology Y Combinator References External links Official website
In fiction In the 1996 novel Push by Sapphire and the 2009 movie based on it, Precious, the expression is used as the name of an alternative school that the principal character is attending after being transferred out from public school.
Many private, public, non-profit, and for-profit institutions worldwide now offer distance education courses from the most basic instruction through to the highest levels of degree and doctoral programs.
Options for Earning CME Formal: includes CME activities that have been formally certified by the credit system/accrediting body or the accredited CME provider.
Company and factory visits Depending on the program year, visits to leading companies are organized by the program for the participants to study and learn about the Japanese industry.
Karl Compton, MIT board of trustees, and Earl Eames, a graduating senior in chemical engineering, active in student government, sought ways in which the institute could join the international cooperative undertaking to rebuild war-torn Europe.
New educational institutions have also emerged that operate exclusively within Second Life, taking advantage of the platform to deliver content to a worldwide audience at low cost.
External links Middlesex County 4-H Fife & Drum Corps Official Website Colonial Williamsburg Fife and Drum Middlesex County Volunteers Fifes and Drums The Old Guard Fife and Drum 1st Michigan Colonial Fife and Drum The Company of Fifers & Drummers National 4-H Organization
Films Most of the characters in the French-Spanish film L'Auberge espagnole (2002) are enrolled in the programme, which plays a central role in the film.
WikiEducator's stated goal is to build a thriving and sustainable global community dedicated to the design, development and delivery of free content for learning in realisation of a free version of the education curriculum by 2015.
The origins of modern scholarships trace back to medieval Europe in the 13th and 14th centuries, where they took the form of charitable patronage.
Youth Literacy Organisation (YouLI) is a non-profit NGO registered in the Republic of Rwanda, founded by Gilbert Rwabigwi in 2009.
Dewey's work influenced dozens of other prominent experiential models and advocates in the later 20th century, including Foxfire, service learning, Kurt Hahn and Outward Bound, and Paulo Freire, who is often cited in works on experiential education.
As such the same financial aid packages are often available to online students, which has helped make them more accessible to traditional applicants.
The first season was hosted by Nevin Roach, with the judging panel consisting of Ojay Richards, David Walcott and Kenneth Joseph.
During the retreats the tech team members are split into tracks: graphics track, videography track, web development track, and the GPS/GIS track.
After World War I, the BAEF invested in land and buildings for the Université libre de Bruxelles (Solbosch/Solbos campus) and also for rebuilding the library of the Catholic University of Leuven.
To continue the work for the construction industry code authority in regard to apprenticeship programs, United States Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins established the Federal Committee on Apprenticeship.
SIS hosted the 12th SIGA in Singapore in 1999 and launched the LINK-8+ (Wavelength – Special 1999 Edition).
Policies Much of Intern Aware’s argument focuses on how interns fit into the National Minimum Wage Act 1998.
Teacher as a facilitator "The tutor or lecturer tends to be more supportive than critical, more understanding than judgmental, more genuine than playing a role." Their job is to foster an engaging environment for the students and ask inquiry-based questions that promote meaningful learning.
On September 29, 2011, the nonprofit Reggio Children-Loris Malaguzzi Centre Foundation was established at the Loris Malaguzzi International Centre to foster “education and research to improve the lives of people and communities, in Reggio Emilia and in the world”.
The German Democratic Republic (GDR) considered itself to be an anti-fascist state, it did not consider itself responsible for the consequences of German fascism.
However, many states do not compel charters to abide by open meeting statutes as well as prerequisites on conflict of interest that pertain to school districts, boards, and employees.
Legacy The Jessie Field Shambaugh Post Office Building, named that in 2021, is at 101 South 16th Street in Clarinda, Iowa.
Mobile Learning: Developing Countries The developed world's emphasis on highly sophisticated technological devices is a futuristic dream for most developing countries.
StarLogo Nova takes the blocks language and 3D visualization engine of StarLogo TNG and brings them to the web browser.
Kodu is different from other game development or programming apps in several key ways: It avoids typing code by having users program through blocks representing conditions and responses.
It had actively recruited its drivers from the campuses of American colleges and universities, promoting morale by creating units with volunteers from the same schools.
In Wales, training and strategic oversight is provided by Forest Schools Wales and government agencies such as the Forestry Commission who have supported research and the development of practical experience for forest school practitioners.
exSEL (2007) is an end-to-end marketing tool which provides a virtual tour and allows virtual interactions with the exhibits in the IBM Solutions Experience Lab.
It is also not clear if there are other unwanted side effects that may result from random drug and alcohol testing in the workplace.
Although these have previously been used for civil and even scientific uses, it has since become a popular activity for the recreation and tourism industries.
While the campaign was mostly targeted towards men, over half of the educators who volunteered to further the effort were women.
Building a knowledge society for all Education is considered one of the cornerstones of social economic development.
Second, it is also believed that the term is necessary to highlight the discrimination based on the dichotomy.
The WikiEducator community will also certify new WikiEducators who request certification of their skills under the L4C initiative.
The simple language and graphical components of RAPTOR are designed to teach the major ideas of computer programming to students.
Unschooling's interest-based nature does not mean that it is a "hands-off" approach to education; parents tend to be involved, especially with younger children (older children, unless new to unschooling, often need less help in finding resources and in making and carrying out plans).
In 2005, PRAESA responded to a request for educational support for young people in Langa and had the opportunity to focus its passion for reading and multilingualism on setting up community-based reading clubs.
YEAs Armenia organizes youth fairs, seminars and conferences, and members take part in various international events.
The mission of the group is to create a diverse Python community through outreach, education, conferences and social gatherings.
They read two books at a time from the library, record them on their sheet then show the sheet to the librarian where they get two stickers to put on their sheet (one often being a scratch-n'-sniff).
In order to make student exchange possible in all countries and for all students, AJA distinctively emphasizes the importance to extend youth exchange with the new EU members and to launch financial support that is provided by political initiatives.
In 1995, the national competition, then known as the United States Skill Olympics, was renamed to the SkillsUSA Championships during the NLSC.
University Without Walls (UWW) at University of Massachusetts Amherst is a department within the university which provides degree completion coursework for the undergraduate and graduate degrees, enrolled by non-traditional students.
Version 5.2 included a background syntax checking tool, a new plotting library, a database library, and a new extended REPL.
They are the Students’ Union, the Youth Volunteers Association, the Youth League general branch and the Mental Weather Station.
Especially if a professional organization develops a learning environment that guides groups of pupils/students in their co-operation in creating a professional and publicly visible product, presentation or performance.
In the developing world, the classrooms receive a box of books as an impetus to continue in the program.
Lists of institutes The Road Scholar Lifelong Learning Institute Network maintains a searchable list of all its member lifelong learning institutes, including location and contact information.
The participants are selected from among the best applicants (about 40 out of 800 to 1,000 each year).
2014 controversy A Newton North senior created controversy in 2014 when, during his time in China for the exchange, he wrote several notes in the schoolbook of a Chinese middle schooler.
It has partnered with Arcturus publishing in the production of a number of Turing-related puzzle books.
Examples of experiential learning methods used include: Active-based learning – All participants in the group must engage actively in working together toward the stated objectives.
Topics which the association focuses on also includes online education, and continuing education through professional networking opportunities and publications.
See also Lifelong learning Notes External links The Bernard Osher Foundation OLLI National Resource Center List of Osher Lifelong Learning Institutes
Each participant attempts to progress to the finals and win the title, by impressing a panel of judges.
These roles often emerge through digital platforms that connect employers with potential interns, making the matching process more efficient.
Research and Innovation Throughout the 2020-21 academic year, UDIMA is involved in 45 research projects with 20 research teams; it has 1 patent and has published 60 articles in indexed scientific journals.
Emma Little-Pengelly (class of 2002), Democratic Unionist Party MLA within the Northern Ireland Executive.
Organized in 1976 with support from Hanna and Alfred Fromm, the Institute’s program served as a model for the Osher Lifelong Learning Institutes that have been established at over 120 universities and colleges in the United States.
The 2025 national conference was held at the Gaylord Opryland Resort & Convention Center in Nashville, Tennessee.
History Harriet Drury Van Meter visited India in 1965 by invitation of the United States Department of State.
On 19 December 2010, many scholarship holders of the Kalinowski Program took part in a demonstration in Minsk against the falsification of the 2010 Belarusian presidential election.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, TIES moved its workshops online and produced guided lessons in English and Spanish that students can work through on their own.
Literacy Today (formerly titled Reading Today), ILA’s membership magazine, was published from 1983 to 2011 as a bimonthly membership newspaper.
1989: The first expansion YVC site is started in Spartanburg, SC, as part of the United Way of the Piedmont.
The organization provides resources for grassroots groups including campaign strategy, funding and social media strategy.
The students of the Adventist education system within the Inter-America Division have access to the AVL.
Blood drug tests are not used very often because they need specialized equipment and medically trained administrators.
Content The documentary is divided into 10 thematic episodes, each presenting a different aspect of education in the school context and outside of it.
The project was given a $1.3 million grant from the National Science Foundation and raised additional funds on the Kickstarter platform.
COL provided sponsorship and leadership for the project, including receipt of a $100,000 grant from The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation to develop WikiEducator.
In 2013, the Boston Consulting Group conducted a research study on the impact of Big Brothers Big Sisters mentoring programs.
The Youth ChalleNGe Program is a program for at-risk youth run by the National Guard of the United States (which is why the NG in ChalleNGe is either: Capitalized, Italicized, Bolded or all of the above), which consists of Youth Challenge Academies (known as YCA's) in each participating state.
While Gmail is frequently described as a 20% project, its creator Paul Buchheit states that it was never one.
There are two associated metabolites of cocaine, benzoylecgonine (BZ) and ecgonine methyl ester (EME), the first (BZ) is created by the presence of cocaine in an aqueous solution with a pH greater than 7.0, while the second (EME) results from the actual human metabolic process.
Shuffle, Nitro Crossing, and Group Wall Trust-building games: activities designed to provide members the opportunity to demonstrate their trust in other members of the group through a series of sequenced actions.
No additional fees are payable, and the course is recognised by the home institution as part of course-work for the degree.
The society legalized its activities and became an officially registered organization on 14 January 1907.
In 1982, Robert Hausman, founding Chairman, incorporated Princess Grace Foundation-USA as a non-profit public charity.
Patrons of the ILF, as of 2021, are Quentin Bryce (appointed February 2015) and June Oscar (appointed September 2019).
Thomas Payzant, former superintendent of Boston Public Schools (BPS), established Boston Teacher Residency, one of the earliest UTR programs, in 2003.
Research suggests that optimal groups limit their size to 8 to 10 participants that meet regularly with rotating leadership.
The UNRISD (Geneva) had started (in the seventies) to promote the term capacitation as a "problem-solving, educational" alternative to the then prevalent but mainly pragmatic 'social amelioration' approaches to International development.
Under the agreement between countries/territories, students’ fees are waived and credit transfer will be made under UMAP credit transfer program.
YES undertook fundraising to fund its activities and, for example, held a 'night at the movies' fundraiser at the Sheridan IMAX movie theatre in early 2005.
All should be accessible to students with a wide range of abilities, backgrounds, and previous experiences.
Phases Acclimation phase The program begins with a 2-week Acclimation Phase where candidates can adjust to the physical, mental, and disciplined aspects of the program.
Fostering networking and collaboration among all employees as well as knowledge and experience sharing have positive impact also on employer branding.
SMART was fully established by the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2006, and was assigned to the Navy Postgraduate School (NPS) as the managing agency in late 2005-early 2006.
William Singleton, a Methodist, started the school, but it was Fox and the staff from his grocer shop that maintained it.
Through both the annual Summit and a range of ongoing programs WISE is promoting innovation and building the future of education through collaboration.
Community Change, formerly the Center for Community Change (CCC), is a progressive community organizing group active in the United States.
NNEST ( en-NEST) or non-native English-speaking teachers is an acronym that refers to the growing body of English language teachers who speak English as a foreign or second language.
It consists of a High School program; currently administered by six organizations in the United States.
In early studies, children were diagnosed with a school phobia when they exhibited (1) persistent difficulties attending school, (2) severe emotional upset at the prospect of going to school, (3) parental knowledge of the absence, and (4) no antisocial characteristics.
For example, the Philadelphia Teacher Residency program targets only science, technology, engineering, and math, while the Memphis Teacher Residency program recruits teachers for both the sciences and the humanities.
It is considered a form of bottom-up innovation (see Top-down and bottom-up design), whereby innovation resides 'deep in the bowels' of an organization, i.e., it is seen as a responsibility of all members of an organization.
Among the most prestigious judicial internships are those in the federal court of appeals, federal district courts, and in the state's supreme court.
The indoor setting may contain a few tables and chairs, bean bags for quiet reading and relaxation, book shelves, hide-aways, kitchens, much color and art posted on the walls.
Many if not most enslaved people were kept in a state of ignorance about anything beyond their immediate circumstances which were under the control of owners, the lawmakers and authorities.
As an example, the course of Electronics Technology taught in the Bachelor of Applied Technology uses fast Fourier transform series to explore the method of electromagnetic interference (EMI) in Switch-mode power supplies.
Participants contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) while developing leadership, cross-cultural understanding, and personal growth.
In 1888, the average annual salary of the teachers in attendance was a little less than US$400 per year.
In the 1969, the Peace Corps, BUNAC, CDS International and the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE) were created.
The group approached Big Brothers Big Sisters of Southern Nevada with the idea of becoming one statewide organization.
After the first several years of permitting charter schools in North Carolina, the authority to grant charters shifted from local boards of education to the State Board of Education.
The building was remodeled following a $10 million capital campaign by Friends of the Fromm Institute, with a lead gift from Hanna Fromm.
The idea was supported by Stasys Šalkauskis, Edvardas Turauskas, and Leonas Bistras, but remained unrealized.
In 2018, Mastercard Foundation shifted to a specific focus on Africa, through its Young Africa Works strategy.
Stephen Downes, an online education theorist and an editor for the International Journal of Instructional Technology and Distance Learning, noted that "the concept of edupunk has totally caught wind, spreading through the blogosphere like wildfire".
Workshops vary in length, and in cases of longer workshops or webinars, scientists and other relevant guests are also invited to present.
Students developed their Head, Heart, and Hands in her 3-H Clubs that included camps, exhibitions and judging contests.
Overview Micro-internships are typically project-based roles that last anywhere from a few hours to a few weeks.
The Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013 (previously referred to as the "Integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning" or the "Integrated programme") was the European Union programme for education and training.
Universal design for instruction includes two more principles related to the delivery environment: 8: Tolerance for error and 9: Size and space for approach and use.
With Open Roberta Fraunhofer IAIS is looking to encourage children to code by using robots such as Lego Mindstorms, and other programmable hardware systems such as Arduino, BBC Micro-Bit, and the Calliope mini.
This was exacerbated by dictator Anastasio Somoza García not being in favor of an educated populace: "I don't want educated people, I want oxen." Planning for the literacy campaign began approximately four months after the Sandinista Revolution which overthrew the Somoza political dynasty.
Anton Tsyalezhnikau from the Movement for Democracy in Belarus stated that such problems should be resolved within the program and should not reach the media, as they provide fodder for Belarusian government propaganda.
Version 7.4 discontinued support for creating Moodle course objects and integrated an external SCORM/TinCan/xAPI player and was released 12 December 2014.
Goals and themes The Pilar Barbosa Internship Program is designed within the context of four basic themes: Leadership in Education, Federal Education Policies in the Context of Puerto Rico, 21st Century Teaching and Integration of Technology in the Classroom.
Sino-American Youth Ambassador (SAYA) (Chinese Simplified: 中美青年大使; Pinyin: zhōngměi qīngnián dàshǐ) is an exchange program run by the Ameson Education and Cultural Exchange Foundation seeking to build capacity for campus internationalization and cultural awareness in school campuses.
CTSOs prepare students for postsecondary avenues in career and college related areas and offer soft skill development and leadership activities.
Much of the land that was not purchased by UCI (which is now occupied by the cities of Irvine, Tustin, and Newport Beach) remains held by The Irvine Company, but the completion of the university rapidly drove the development of Orange County.
ILF was set up in 2011, taking over from the Indigenous Literacy Project (ILP) which had been associated with The Fred Hollows Foundation.
She served as world vice president of Association Montessori Internationale and president of the Opera Nazionale Montessori.
Initially begun in partnership with the Students' Union at Queen's University, Belfast, WIP has received support from the Irish Government through its Department of Education and the International Fund for Ireland as well as the UK government and the US State Department.
When a culinary student or cook-in-training is seeking an internship, often the trial is the next step after the interview.
A micro-internship or freelance internship is a short-term, paid, professional assignment that is similar to those given to new hires or interns.
In September 2014, the school completed an $18 million renovation of the Newhouse 2 building, creating the Newhouse Studio and Innovation Center, which features Dick Clark Studios, the Alan Gerry Center for Media Innovation and the Diane and Bob Miron Digital News Center.
Developed by DLC Solutions, it provides interfaces for organizations to produce and manage continuing education websites.
Architecture (The architecture discipline was launched in 2012) Dance Film (The film discipline was launched in 2004) Literature Music Theatre Visual arts Open category References External links Official website Press kits Rolex Mentor and Protégé Arts Initiative's channel on YouTube
The National Apprenticeship Act (also known as the Fitzgerald Act) is a federal law in the United States which regulates apprenticeship and on-the-job training programs.
Teaching activity The university is organized into four faculties, a technical school and an associate center, that offer bachelor's degrees, double degrees, university master's degrees, doctorates, and UB-specific degrees.
References External links Road Scholar Lifelong Learning Institute member list Archived 2019-07-31 at the Wayback Machine Osher Lifelong Learning Institutes list
International participants actively enrolled during this time in company-sponsored housing were asked to vacate in a short period of time, as well as Disney College Program and culinary students, providing full credit and completion of the program in return.
It pairs emerging artists with established figures in fields such as architecture, dance, film, literature, music, theatre and the visual arts for year-long mentorships.
Thereafter, the number of teachers receiving a small salary increased as did numerous those in the higher grades of work, such as teachers and principals of high schools, training schools, normal schools, and academies, professors in colleges, and superintendents of schools.
Republic of Ireland The Centre for the Talented Youth of Ireland has run in Dublin City University since 1992.
A 2018 study suggested the propensity for women to pursue college degrees in STEM fields declines consistently as countries become more wealthy and egalitarian.
Background Universal Design for Instruction (UDI) applies and adapts universal design principles and the Principles of Universal Design to learning environments and learning products, with a goal toward maximizing learning for all students.
The scheme created a mentoring programme in which young adults acted as mentors for children aged 11–14 years old.
As an example, if you are required to work for the government for two years and only complete one and want to leave the job at that time, you will be required to pay back approximately half of what was given to you during your Phase 1 educational time.
Based on children's responses, teachers introduce materials, questions, and opportunities that provoke children to further explore the topic.
Continuing medical education (CME) is continuing education (CE) that helps those in the medical field maintain competence and learn about new and developing areas of their field.
In the one-to-one mentoring program, one youth and one adult mentor meet twice a month for at least one year.
Wings were added in 1935 and 1936, and those wings were expanded to its current configuration in 1945.
Action Guides: short, softbound books that describe step-by-step how to handle a specific task for a client.
The European University Continuing Education Network (EUCEN) is a multidisciplinary European association for University-based continued education.
Louis, 1979), founder and former CEO and chairman, Gilead Sciences Lynn Sharp (Smith College, 1976), John G.
The production of such creatively stimulated, ungraded work allows for students to experiment with ideas without fear of assessment and may increase their involvement in their general studies.
UWW currently offers degree completion undergraduate and graduate programs from its on-campus departments.
Most recently updated in 2022, the ACCME's Standards for Integrity and Independence in Continuing Education have been adopted by the accrediting bodies of multiple health professions within the United States.
It was the third-most selective University of California campus for the freshman class entering in the fall of 2019, as measured by the ratio of admitted students to applicants (behind UC Berkeley and UCLA).
The building was originally built in 1905 as the Chicago Deaconesses' Home and had become commercial property by the time The Feltre School purchased it in 1998.
During 2014–15, the academic and teaching structure was reorganised and five faculties were created.
The individual completing this activity is referred to as a stage, stagiaire ([staʒjɛʁ]), commis (assistant chef) or volontaire ("volunteer").
History The editors of the Journal of Public Health Policy (JPHP) first presented the AuthorAID idea, provisionally named EditAID, at a meeting of the World Federation of Public Health Associations in Brighton, England in April 2004.
References External links SMART official scholarship page SMART section on NDEP website The Unofficial SMART Scholarship Forum
Beyond classroom use, the platform is also utilized as a bridge for transitional learning, helping students move from basic logic games to creative algorithm building through structured project workflows.
It has established an Honor Society, manages numerous competitive events and has partnerships with several organizations.
She completed her education at the Liceo classico Giovanni Prati, before studying literature at the Sapienza University of Rome.
Results The effects of AL-Bairaq on the secondary school students are supported by the results of a research carried out in Qatar, which concluded that the advanced learning environment resulted in the improvement of the students’ ability to acquire and retain new knowledge.
Overview of the 1972 edition How to Read a Book is divided into four parts, each consisting of several chapters.
The little-known truth is that these colleges have been on the cutting edge of higher education for decades.
In 1968, the Carl Duisberg Society was founded in New York City as a non-profit organization designed to rekindle Duisberg's original exchanges and to facilitate international career training opportunities for Americans and Germans.
In Germany it is called the "Parlamentarisches Patenschafts Programm" (PPP) and over the years the German authorities have made many efforts to present this as their "own program".
Finland has been a member of the European Union since 1 January 1995, and has taken part in the previous educational programmes.
In 2023, the company joined DiversiFAIR, an EU-funded initiative focused on intersectional fairness in artificial intelligence.
Discover Science & Engineering (DSE) is an Irish Government initiative that aims to increase interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) among students, teachers and members of the public in Ireland.
Delivery Methods: Use of a variety of delivery methods and learning approaches, including lecture, discussion, hands-on activities, projects, cases, and Internet-based interaction.
Happy Rural Family Hotel Program The goal of this program is to help young people of rural areas in western China engage in tourism service and set up and run family hotels with rural features to alleviate poverty.
CH Control System Toolkit is used for the design, analysis, and modelling of continuous-time or discrete-time linear time-invariant (LTI) control systems.
Colleges That Change Lives:40 Schools That Will Change the Way You Think About Colleges (2013-2014 ed.).
This principle is called "sequential operation." NEPO block categories All available blocks are listed and categorized as the Action, Sensors, Control, Logic, Math, Text, Colours, Variables, Functions, and Messages as shown in the table below.
The report also allowed students to show high functioning on talents and skills not measurable by an intelligence test.
For the first two years of operation, while the dividends were accumulating, the foundation was run by a board appointed by Mastercard Inc., which was replaced by an independent board and leadership in 2008.
These early activists successfully advocated for the passage of laws supporting or even requiring the teaching of humane education in schools, and many teachers did teach it.
The show dealt with topics in the fields of science, technology, education and mathematics ("STEM"), and introduced scientists, institutions and projects in those fields, such as OSIRIS-REx and the Catalina Sky Survey.
In the following years, eucen evolved from being a volunteering network into becoming a wide European multidisciplinary network trying to bring consistency to the concept of University Lifelong Learning.
Bill), which dramatically expanded access to education through government scholarships and loans for veterans.
During the late 1970s and 1980s, the company transitioned from equipment modification into the design and manufacture of purpose-built underground vehicles.
In America, they were common in the Tri-State district areas during the lead and zinc mining in Missouri, Oklahoma, and Kansas.
As there were originally five F60s, a total of 10 Type Es 3750 BCEs were built, but with the retirement of one of the F60s in Lichterfeld-Schacksdorf, only 8 remain in service.
2006 – Foreign expansion through establishing a joint venture Shandong Liangda Fasing Round Link Chains Co.
Screen capacities vary with model sizes over a huge range to satisfy individual application requirements such as material size, bulk density, moisture contamination, etc.
The Quality Management System applied in research and development, fabrication, erection and after-sale service of the equipment complies with international ISO 9000 standards.
It can move 240,000 m3 (8.5 million ft3) of soil per day, weighing around 218,880 tonnes (480 million pounds), the same as Bagger 288.
For the time being the Caledonian used the GG&CR Townhead terminus in Glasgow, but soon extended to a new terminal at Glasgow, Buchanan Street.
"How Big is a Hole?: The Problems of the Practical Application of Science in the Invention of the Miners' Safety Lamp by Humphry Davy and George Stephenson in Late Regency England" (PDF).
Schramm's Australian based business is currently under external administration, following a workplace fatality in February 2023.
Since 1975, Hitachi has been using images of a currently-183-year-old Samanea saman tree, known as the Hitachi Tree (hitachi no ki), located at Moanalua Gardens, Hawaii, in most of its television commercials as a symbol of the conglomerate.
Construction of the railway was a condition of an 1894 mining lease to Víctor Chávarri, who enlisted the support of the English vice consul of Almería in Garrucha, George Clifton Pecket.
It is used together with multibucket excavators, frequently bucket chain excavators, that remove the overburden which is moved to the bridge by connecting conveyors.
The lamp itself was surrounded by glass, which had an additional perforated metal tube surrounding it for protection.
Homogenization aims to upgrade the raw material to a uniform composition of the product being homogenized.
A gook was a piece of protective headgear worn by bal maidens (female manual labourers in the mining industries of Cornwall and Devon).
The conveyor bridge of Espenhain lignite mine with a total length of 545 m, which started operation in 1944, could remove an overburden of 45 m thickness.
Typical materials that are transferred using slurry pipelines include coal, copper, iron, and phosphate concentrates, limestone, lead, zinc, nickel, bauxite and oil sands.
It is held at arm's length at floor level in one hand, the other hand shielding out all except the tip of the flame.
19) was obtained allowing a short 1+1⁄4-mile (2 km) extension to the Midland Railway's line near Barnsley; the new chord would have enabled the South Yorkshire company to take advantage of their recently acquired running powers to Wakefield and Leeds over the Midland's lines.
References External links Cornish Pumping Engine and Mining Museum - Menominee Range Historical Foundation
Spillway and outlet works The Spring Creek Dam is able to release up to 5,920 cubic feet (168 m3) of water per second from the Spring Creek Reservoir, through a crest spillway and outlet works.
JCB said it had no “legal ownership” of its machinery once sold to Comasco, its sole distributor of JCB equipment in Israel.
It worked thirty years for the RS hauling ore materials trains until the early 1960s; in 1971, it was sold to John Thompson and later to the Crab Orchard and Egyptian Railway (CO&E) in Marion, Illinois.
A loader is a heavy equipment machine used in construction to move or load materials such as soil, rock, sand, demolition debris, etc.
It is one of the largest chain manufacturers in the world, and is the largest producer of industrial chains in Central and Eastern Europe.
Origin of term 1350–1400; Middle English from Dutch and German Korb, ultimately borrowed from Latin corbis basket; cf.
Optional features included L&M radiator, monitoring systems, special paint, cold climate kit, AM/FM radio with cassette player, electric starter, engine heater, canopy spill guards, body liner, and more.
How the Jumbo Works The main body of the Jumbo has two or a maximum of three drilling rigs, a basket, and a movable roof that moves vertically, and four jacks are installed in its four corners to stabilize it during drilling and prevent it from changing the drilling angle.
Training Mining simulators are used to replicate real-world conditions of mining, assessing real-time responses from the trainee operator to react to what tasks or obstacles appear around them.
It got the nickname "mine under the sea", because tunnels were driven up to 2.5 km from the cliffs under the sea.
Under this arrangement, the company's Burnie facilities manufactured underground hard-rock mining equipment for global distribution through Caterpillar’s international dealer network.
In 1866, Thwaites and Carbutt Vulcan Works manufactured three locomotives "of 0-6-0 type" for Boulton.
Use Power shovels are used principally for excavation and removal of overburden in open-cut mining operations; they may also be used for the loading of minerals, such as coal.
hammer of a new design, for planishing pipes and plates, for which we are indebted to Engineering [magazine]".
is an Italian manufacturer of construction equipment belonging to the Trevi Group established in 1969 in Cesena.
In the mid-1880s, the federal government set minimum harbor lines and stiff penalties for breaching them, and eventually filed suit against the Quincy Mine for dumping in Portage Lake.
Attempts to purchase and preserve the shovel from Consol to make it the centerpiece of a mining museum exhibit for $2.6 million fell short.
Ideal for multi-fraction separation As a gyratory screening machine employs the use of smaller stacked screen frames, the screens can be accurately placed to the precise requirements of each separation.
Afterwards, the company was sold to the private sector as part of the ruling Islamic Republic privatization plans of 2006, which put Islamic Republic officials and their affiliates in control of the country’s vital businesses.
The MTZ planned to transport one million tonnes of iron ore in 2016 and plans to increase its transport volume to eight to ten million tonnes in the future.
The technology utilizes a gyroscope and an accelerometer, together called an inertial navigation system or INS, to aid in 3D-position determination.
Comparison to rigid dump trucks Articulated haulers excel in hauling material over rough terrain e.g.
The company's most powerful tow tractor, the F396P, is used to tow the world's largest cargo aircraft (Antonov An-225) and the Airbus A380, the largest passenger aircraft.
The grinding force are applied through the sets of rollers on to the material bed spread over the rotating grinding table.
(acquired the remaining 50% interest) on 19 June 2012 In the news In 2010, Layne Christensen assisted in the rescue of 33 miners trapped for 69 days as a result of the Chilean mining accident of 2010 in Chile.
The cost of a DAC 120 DE truck was around US$ 300,000 (US$ 615,000 in 2018 dollars), much cheaper than other comparable models.
A letter from Davy (which he intended to be kept private) describing his findings and various suggestions for a safety lamp was made public at a meeting in Newcastle on 3 November 1815, and a paper describing the lamp was formally presented at a Royal Society meeting in London on 9 November.
Later, in early 20th century mining jargon, a saucisson referred to the flexible casings used for explosives in mine operations.
By 1912, Page realized that building draglines was more lucrative than contracting, so he created the Page Engineering Company to build draglines.
The amalgamations gave the NBR excellent connectivity eastwards from Coatbridge, but the awkward route towards Glasgow remained; this was important because much iron ore and finished iron was exported from quays in Glasgow, and from Ayrshire ports.
New designs were added, and in 1972 the company shipped the first of its newly designed flared cage mill to Webster Brick, Roanoke, Virginia.
The six-section crawler undercarriage, with a maximum travel speed of 6 meters per minute, carries the total mass of 3850 tons.
The shovel worked well for Arch Coal until September 9, 1991, when a fire broke out in the lower works of the shovel, caused by a burst hydraulic line that sprayed the hot fluids on an electrical relay panel.
Through hoisting, the working block can include area both above and below the level of the machine (the bench level).
In March 2020, Liebherr launched their first APAC HQ in Singapore, alongside their bespoke $35,000 SGD Bespoke Luxe Refrigerator.
In the 2025 film adaptation A Minecraft Movie features a scene where Steve and Garrett (portrayed by Jack Black and Jason Momoa) escape the mobs through a minecart.
One example is a 360 TPD Gold Processing Plant Sepro supplied to ProEurasia LCC for the Vladimirskaya Project in Russia.
In the lyrics of the song, Bagger 288 is built to protect mankind from Godzillas and doom robots from the future.
The undulations on the route would allow the horse to ride on the downhill sections: The drawing horse [would be] carried behind the coach in a covered stable waggon.
A rockbreaker is a machine designed to manipulate large rocks, including reducing large rocks into smaller rocks.
OJSC BelAZ has offered its premises and equipment to stage a political rally in support of the regime.
When the hopper is full, the ship sails to an offshore location and opens doors in the bottom of the hopper, allowing the dredge spoil to fall to the sea bottom.
Founded in 2002 and integrated into the Hitachi Group in 2012, the company specializes in Microsoft-based digital transformation across industries such as construction, financial services, health care, retail, manufacturing, sports and entertainment, and energy.
Fully loaded the 960E-1 weighs 1,270,000 pounds (580 t) and can achieve a top speed of 40 mph (64 km/h) Competition The 960E-1 competes with other 360 short tons (327 t) payload capacity haul trucks such as the Bucyrus MT5500AC.
It was lifted by cams on a rotating axle, and fell on the ore and water mixture, fed into a box beneath.
Further, the metal blades of the Hollander often introduced metal contaminants into the paper as one metal blade struck another.
During the work, the Army requested a number of extras which raised the ultimate cost to about $135,000.
In the mining of most heavy minerals, the denser material would be the desired mineral and the rest would be discarded as floats (or tailings).
In 2020, at 100 years of age, it was announced that the mill was "undergoing a restoration project that will stabilize the remaining architecture, improve the structural integrity and cleanup the mining waste and tailings piles.
Various other types of jobs such as digging in gravel banks, in clay pits, cuts in support of road work, road-side berms, etc.
1990: Coromant Capto, aka CC, a single holding system for both rotating and stationary spindles, is introduced.
The machine began work in January, 1967 for Hanna Coal, and was later purchased by Consolidated Coal in "Egypt Valley" near Barnesville, Ohio.
Lenz bought Terex USA in 1986, exercising an option to purchase Terex Equipment Ltd the following year.
Mantrip A mantrip is a shuttle for transporting miners down into an underground mine at the start of their shift, and out again at the end.
In the deepest mines, which could sink to more than 350 fathoms (640 metres), extra counterweights were provided at regular intervals, in horizontal side galleries.
On February 18, 1994, Bucyrus-Erie filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and remained under bankruptcy protection until December 14, 1994.
Syncrude had a lower-than-expected fines capture performance in 2011/2012 but exceeded expectations in 2010/2011.
Remediation In 2007, the New Zealand Government announced that $9.88 million will be made available to clean up the site with the work scheduled to be completed by 2010.
It monitors light vehicle positions and provides real–time awareness of changing conditions to visitors and mine personnel.
The Clydesdale Junction Railway and the Polloc and Goven Railway were absorbed by the Caledonian Railway by the Caledonian, Polloc and Govan, and Clydesdale Junction Railways Amalgamation Act 1846 (9 & 10 Vict.
A water treatment plant was built on a site named Minnesota Flats near the Iron Mountain Mine, using lime to balance the pH of the acid mine drainage.
Steam drills found greater use in surface quarries than in underground mines, as there they could be much closer to the requisite boilers.
Hybrids combine slats with weave/mesh or dedicated anti-extrusion layers to control growth and resist damage in high-pressure service.
In 2011, Transmin developed the first commercially available automation system for pedestal rockbreakers.
Locomotives The Wishaw and Coltness company acquired three locomotives designed by Robert Dodds and built by James M Rowan of Glasgow: they were named Wishaw, Coltness and Cleland; they started work at the end of 1840.
When the inlet is opened, air is drawn into the top space of the downcomer by this lower pressure, where it too is entrained into the downcomer contents by the plunging jet.
Hardness: The grinding media needs to be durable enough to grind the material, but, where possible, not so tough that it also wears down the tumbler.
A lamp room is a designated facility, historically associated with coal mines, where miners' safety lamps were stored, maintained, inspected, and issued.
Rockbreakers consist of two major components, a hydraulic hammer (used to break rocks) and a boom (the arm).
It was dependent on the Monkland and Kirkintilloch Railway for access to the best areas of the coalfields, but eventually it by-passed this constraint by extending its line southwards through Coatbridge, enabling a direct link with another coal railway, the Wishaw and Coltness Railway.
2,134,582 was issued on October 25, 1938 and assigned to the Eastern Iron Metals Company (later to be known as EIMCO).
References http://www.komatsu.com.au/Equipment/Pages/Dump%20Trucks%20-%20Rigid/830E-1AC.aspx Archived 2012-09-25 at the Wayback Machine
By the 11th century, stamp mills were in widespread use throughout the medieval Islamic world, from Islamic Spain and North Africa in the west to Central Asia in the east.
The widest application of stamp mills, however, seems to have occurred in Roman mining, where ore from deep veins was first crushed into small pieces for further processing.
It is widely used in recovering valuable heavy minerals such as gold, platinum, tin, tungsten, as well as gemstones such as diamond and sapphire, from alluvial or placer deposits.
Presence in Underground Mining In 1991, Modular Mining Systems developed and installed the world's first underground fleet management system at a diamond mine in South Africa.
A description of the working conditions of the mine was described in The Cornishman newspaper in 1883.
Primary ores included argentiferous galena, sphalerite, and tetrahedrite-tennantite with pyrite and quartz gangue.
While the machine is idle, an "internal shunt" is connected across the output terminals so that any stray voltages induced in the external circuit, for example by nearby radio transmitters, are harmlessly short-circuited without triggering the blasting cap.
In 1993 Yanmar launched the world's first Zero Tail Swing excavator, which allows the counterweight to stay inside the width of the tracks as it slews, thus being safer and more user friendly when used in a confined space.
Martin purchased Allan's Foundry from the estate in 1907 and renamed it Miners Foundry and Supply Co.
Modern machines are typically fully automated with their parameters (for stacking or reclaiming) remotely set.
During operation the lighter material flows upward over the grooves and heavy mineral particles (usually of economic value) become trapped within them.
A wheat lamp is a type of incandescent light designed for use in underground mining, named for inventor Grant Wheat and manufactured by Koehler Lighting Products in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, United States, a region known for extensive mining activity.
In the United States, the Mine Safety and Health Administration has published safety regulations governing the operation of mantrips.
Ruston & Hornsby Ltd were the pre-eminent manufacturers of steam excavators at the time, having started in 1874.
The railway was authorised by a law of 4 March 1887 which declared it a public utility for the transport of minerals.
The loan was to have a term of ten years, renewable for another five with the agreement of both parties.
World War I During World War I, the Hendy plant gained its first experience building marine engines by supplying 11 triple expansion steam engines for cargo ships built by Western Pipe & Steel, for the U.S.
Description The fabrication of Big Brutus was completed in May 1963, after which it was shipped on 150 railroad cars to be assembled in Kansas.
For the time being the Monkland Railways had no direct connection to Glasgow, although there was a connection with the E&GR at Kirkintilloch Junction (later Lenzie).
There is still gold to be mined here – but the cost of extracting the gold from the mine exceeds the value of the gold, at least for the time being.
In January, 1993, administrative, sales and engineering personnel moved into a newly erected office building.
Mikael Lilius, former chairman of the Board of Metso, is the chairman of the board, and Matti Alahuhta, former chairman of the board of Outotec, is the deputy chairman of the board.
Locations The group is physically present in 7 countries on 3 continents: Poland United States China Germany Russia Czech Republic Ukraine Structure The firm is the parent company of the capital group, which includes: Production companies Mining Equipment and Tools Factory Capital Group FASING Plc.
Specifications and History Built by Ransomes & Rapier and named after the winning horse of the 1957 Grand National, it began work in a Rutland iron ore quarry belonging to the United Steel Companies (Ore Mining Branch) that year.
In July 1900, Grant sailed from San Francisco to Taku Bay, China with Major General Adna Chaffee, the commander of China Relief Expedition during the Boxer Rebellion.
Unlike the buckets on a BWE, the buckets on the chain face downwards, allowing the machine to remove overburden or materials significantly below the bench or travel level.
George Stephenson invented a similar lamp but Davys invention was safer due to it having a fine wire gauze that surrounded the flame.
The mine workers settled in the area which took the name of the mine and is now a populated place to the north called Good Hope.
Then on August 26, Geotech works to ensure that the 5+1⁄2-inch 6C pilot hole is drilling to reach the underground workshop.
At Dolaucothi, these stamp mills were hydraulic-driven and possibly also at other Roman mining sites, where the large scale use of the hushing and ground sluicing technique meant that large amounts of water were directly available for powering the machines.
In 1885, a 5.5 kilometres (3.4 mi) long railway opened linking the Glückhilf mine at Welfesholz and the Kupferkammer smeltery at Hettstedt.
The Ontario company's mill was also the birthplace of two significant hydrometallurgical processes, the Russell Process and the Cyanide Process.
The ship was used to dredge multiple obstructions on the Mississippi River and in the Atchafalaya Basin from 1933 until at least 1937.
Stamp sand may be hazardous to human health, since it contains trace amounts of harmful heavy metals (such as arsenic).
Jharia Coalfield has a series of railway lines covering the region lying between the Grand Chord line on the north and the Damodar river in the south.
Product conception, design, manufacture and sales are carried out by a team of 130 workers, all based at the factory in Ostfildern near Stuttgart in south western Germany.
Namtu is a security area and restrictions are placed on visiting the railway, mines and smelters, except on official tours.
History HEPCO was established and registered in 1972, with the intention of assembly & production of heavy equipment.
A variety of means were used to transport slate from the terraces to the mills where the rock was processed.
Grain-pounders with pestles, as well as ordinary watermills, are also attested as late as the middle of the fifth century in a monastery founded by Romanus of Condat in the remote Jura region, indicating that the knowledge of trip hammers continued into the early Middle Ages.
Service history United States Shipping Board (1919–1932) After delivery to the Shipping Board, Detroit Wayne made her way through the Great Lakes to the Atlantic, passing through the Lachine Canal on 23 June 1920, and arriving at Portland, Maine on 17 July 1920.
Joe Walker Mine The Joe Walker gold mine was founded on 20 March 1866 by Hamp Williams, father of another Hamp Williams who discovered silver at Randsburg.
During World War I the line from Bothwell to Hamilton was closed to passengers except for workmen's trains, from 1 January 1917 to 2 June 1919.
The mining areas in the late 19th century around Bédar were initially served by a series of aerial cableways which transported ore to ships at Garrucha.
Dome Mine is situated in the City of Timmins, Ontario, Canada; and was developed during the Porcupine Gold Rush.
Like many mines in the area, the property probably started as a placer mine during the Georgia Gold Rush.
Overview A bucket chain excavator works similarly to a bucket wheel excavator, using a series of buckets to dig into the material before dumping it in the bucket chute and depositing it through a discharge boom.
A graduation tower (occasionally referred to as a thorn house) is a structure, used in the production of salt, that removes water from a saline solution by evaporation, increasing its concentration of mineral salts.
Maintenance cart Source: Conducting maintenance on belt conveyors involves the replacement of worn or damaged idlers, work that is especially challenging on the steep slopes, in tunnels or on the elevated structures so typical of mining sites.
Excavators are heavy construction equipment primarily consisting of a boom, dipper (or stick), bucket, and cab on a rotating platform known as the "house".
Services include product user training, consulting, business process mapping (BPM), performance benchmarking, change management, and lean services, among others.
Footage posted on YouTube by Maughan appears to show him collecting samples from the floor of the dam.
During sumping, the cutterhead is driven directly into the intact rock face without a free surface, which requires the highest cutting forces of the entire cycle.
Currently, the dam stores 100,000,000 t (98,420,653 long tons; 110,231,131 short tons) of tailings and the raise would increase storage to 125,000,000 t (123,025,816 long tons; 137,788,914 short tons).
It is commonly mounted on steel wheels designed to run on narrow gauge rails, with some later models using metal or rubber-tyred road wheels.
This facility, however, dumped an enormous amount of sand tailings into the lake, and the sand soon threatened to encroach on the navigable channel of the lake.
Gold dredges were used in New Zealand from the 1860s, although the earlier dredges were of primitive design and not very successful.
It lasted until February 1842 when the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway opened, putting paid to any through traffic over the Slamannan route.
Overview The vertical roller mill is a kind of grinding machine for cement, raw material, cement clinker, slag and coal slag.
There are some minerals, notably coal, that are lighter (lower in density) than the surrounding rock and in such instances the process of extraction would work in reverse, i.e.
At its highest point at the east, the mill is ninety-six feet in height and is visible above the surrounding forest from the highway.
The reservoir's construction began in 1974, and exploitation (and the completion of the reservoir's construction) on February 12, 1977.
Mill number two was demolished early, as well as the original portions of mill number one, but the later additions to mill number one remain.
These secondary minerals develop within tailings impoundments due to weathering processes following mining and milling activities.
Page also invented the arched dragline bucket, a design still commonly used today by draglines from many other manufacturers, and in the 1960s pioneered an archless bucket design.
Other types of mantrips do not require a track and take the form of a pickup truck running on rubber tires.
It was one of only two Bucyrus-Erie 1950-B shovels built (the other being The Silver Spade) and one of two to use the knee-action crowd licensed from Marion Power Shovel in exchange for Marion's use of Bucyrus-Erie's cable crowd patent.
While the overall concepts that go into a BWE have not changed much, their size has grown drastically since the end of World War II.
The failure came about just southeast of Lemonroyd Lock where the Aire and Calder Navigation joins the River Aire.
Loaders are used mainly for loading materials into trucks, laying pipe, clearing rubble, and digging.
In coal mining in central Europe during the 19th and 20th centuries, every miner had his own set of tools.
Tolls were laid down, and "the company may provide carriages for the conveyance of passengers, and charge for each person conveyed a rate of 4d per mile" and "locomotive engines may be used on the railway" The name of the company refers to the area where minerals would originate.
A winding engine is a stationary engine used to control a cable, for example to power a mining hoist at a pit head.
It was invented in Germany in the 19th century and was a prominent feature of tin and copper mines in Cornwall until the beginning of the twentieth century.
Heavy duty fenders, bumpers and man baskets (gondolas) are fabricated to mount on the tractor or tractor frames to provide more durability.
Developments The Euclid company of Euclid, OH, was synonymous with off-road haul trucks, and earthmoving equipment such as bottom dumpers, and to a lesser extent, scrapers, in the 1950s.
The "Phoenix" (Fénix) evacuation devices used in the rescue of 33 miners after the 2010 Copiapó mining accident, in Chile, are an enhanced version of the Dahlbusch Bomb.
Some mining simulators can also be mobile and move locations, which can be particularly helpful for use of the same simulator between multiple schools or colleges for apprentice programs.
Design A typical "capacitive discharge" blasting machine works by charging a capacitor from a battery, then discharging the capacitor through an external circuit, called the firing line, to fire the blasting cap.
The undercarriage, especially frequently for a mini-excavator, can also have blade similar to that of a bulldozer.
Ore from the Good Hope was one requiring fine crushing and very careful amalgamation and concentration.
This requires more complex valve gear and other controls than are needed on engines used in mills or to drive pumps.
A safety lamp designed for use in potentially hazardous atmospheres such as firedamp and coal dust, the lamp is mounted on the front of the miner's helmet and powered by a wet cell battery worn on the miner's belt.
Epiroc was officially created on 1 January 2018 and was subsequently listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm stock exchange on June 18, 2018.
A large gold dredge uses a mechanical method to excavate material (sand, gravel, dirt, etc.) using steel "buckets" on a circular, continuous "bucketline" at the front end of the dredge.
Thus DEVCO continued to operate modest rail services and add new spurs and other facilities where needed.
Configurations In reciprocating power drills, the drilling cylinder is mounted on a feed-screw, such that as the hole is drilled and the drilling point recedes from the rock face, the drill-bit continues to move into it, while the anchor point (on the tripod or column) remains in place.
Mines Knelson concentrators are used in a number of gold mines operated by AngloGold Ashanti, like Geita, Sunrise Dam and the Serra Grande Gold Mine as well as Barrick's TGO Tomingley Gold Operation Bulyanhulu Gold Mine.
On average, all Baggers require a total output 16.56 MW (22,207 hp) of power to function with all-systems running.
In 1882 the mine was taken over by new owners on a 21 year lease, who replaced machinery and improved the surface-works.
corves) in mining is a wicker basket or a small human powered (in later times in the case of the larger mines, horse drawn) minecart for carrying or transporting coal, ore, etc.
Lower park The park's main entrance is in the "lower" or eastern portion which preserves a section of woodlands along the Carson River.
Penrhyn quarry in Bethesda was based around a single large pit over 400 feet deep, worked as a series of terraces.
After the mill was dismantled and moved to Silver City in the 1920s, the area was used as the town garbage dump for 30 years.
Their use was described in medieval written sources of Styria (in modern-day Austria), one from 1135, and another from 1175.
The MT6300AC is Bucyrus' largest, highest payload capacity haul truck, offering one of the largest haul truck payload capacities in the world, up to 400 short tons (363 t).
It last moved in 1999, when it was positioned on top of the hill overlooking the reserve, for preservation.
A roller-cone bit is a drill bit used for drilling through rock that features 2 or 3 abrasive, spinning cones that break up rock and sediment as they grind against it.
At the time of its construction in 1973, the Titan was the largest, highest payload capacity truck ever built.
By April 2003, the dam was raised from its original elevation of 4,010 m (13,156 ft) above sea level to 4,045 m (13,271 ft).
In May 2004, the local government requested that the line be maintained as a heritage railway, as more and more tourists became interested in it.
In jumbo drills, the driving force of the hydraulic pumps is provided by electric motors and diesel engines.
The Komatsu 830E is an ultra class haul truck used in open pit mining designed and built in Peoria, Illinois by Komatsu America Corporation, whose parent company is the Japanese held company Komatsu Ltd.
After it was withdrawn from service, the municipalities Senftenberg, Großräschen, and Schipkau decided on a joint action to preserve the opencast mining machine.
A refinement adds a counter-flow top mounting vibration, in which the sieving is more efficient because the material bed is deeper and the material stays on the screen for a longer time.
On 4 August 1926, a decree was passed, according to which the concession and modification of the operating conditions of the tram from Miliana to Margueritte by the Prefect of Algiers of 24 December 1925 were approved.
As of 2025, the BelAZ 75710 is the truck with the highest payload capacity, 450 metric tons (440 long tons; 500 short tons).
All of the machinery was in place as were other pieces of equipment used in the brick-making process.
The Sherwoods had lived off the farm for several generations, selling fruit and various livestock products.
Tiger Cave is a seven hundred meter area located between Phoenix Mountain and Nine Flowers Mountain.
Geography Located in the Niagara region of Ontario, Ball's Falls currently occupies around one sixth of the 1200 acres bought by the Ball brothers.
During the Second World War a camp designed to accommodate thousands of injured people from the city of Caen was located in the building.
During the 1920 Latvia agrarian reform the 1586 ha of manor's land was divided among 150 farmers, and the main manor house buildings given to Eleja municipality.
The place was published one of the Major Historical and Cultural Sites Protected at the National Level by the State Council in January 1988, and was classified as one of the 100 Great Sites Protection Plan from 2006.
Though steep and narrow, the road is the most direct connection between Lancaster and Dunsop Bridge, and hence Clitheroe.
Six more kilns capable of high yield bricks were added and the bricks produced here was branded the Taiwan Renga.
Wildlife The Frank Felbaum Bat Sanctuary is the home of the largest nursery colony of little brown bats in Pennsylvania.
References External links Canoe Creek State Park Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources "Canoe Creek State Park official map" (PDF).
An additional increase of costs comes from wear of the furniture due to thermomechanical and chemical stresses.
The celadons placed great emphasis on elegant forms and their ceramic glazes, and were otherwise lightly decorated, with no painting.
Electric kilns: kilns operated by electricity were developed in the 20th century, primarily for smaller scale use such as in schools, universities, and hobby centers.
See also Lime Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Charcoal Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Frisco Charcoal Kilns, Milford, Utah, NRHP-listed == References ==
In the sintering process, the powder is further heated to 1450 °C to activate the silica (SiO2) and allow it to combine with the lime and alumina (and iron oxide/blast furnace slag/flying gas) to form the clinker minerals.
Records of historic firings in large Asian kilns shared by several village potters describe several weeks of steady stoking per firing.
Despite its impressive technological achievements, the operation, managed and probably designed by Alfred Spence, was short-lived, closing in 1856, only eighteen months after it opened.
References External links Roche Harbor travel guide from Wikivoyage Roche Harbor history Roche Harbor web cam
Purpose of the Company The objectives of the company were as follows: Manufacture, sale and export of lime, cement and hydraulic products.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Kagawa) References External links Mitoyo City official site (in Japanese)
In the 1880s the kilns were replaced by Batchelor chamber kilns (each with a capacity of 30 tons per week), and further were added to bring up the production to 990 tons per week.
There was no railway on this side of the river, so getting to the railway at Snodland involved taking the cement by barge across the river and then hauling it by horse and cart.
When the Yatsumami kiln sites were discovered in 1967, the cross sections of three kilns were exposed on the slope, but they were washed away by a landslide and cannot be seen at present.
Each kiln was divided into a combustion chamber for burning firewood and a firing chamber for baking tiles, and in front of the combustion chamber was a vestibule that served as a workshop.
The stream and adjoining wetlands are typically dry in mid summer and fall with streamflow returning with heavier rain and snowmelt events in winter.
Kastrup Værk (English: Kastrup Works) was a pottery and tile works in Kastrup, now a suburb of Copenhagen, on the Danish island of Amager.
History The joint-stock company was founded on 20 November 1913 with a share capital of 4 million francs for a period of 50 years.
Both kilns are 30 feet (9.1 m) tall and 25 feet (7.6 m) in diameter and were built from rocks and mud.
About this time, Davis moved to San Francisco, where the company established a sales office and warehouse facilities.
The gardener's house and walled garden are also mentioned in the National Inventory of Architectural Heritage.
Hinodeyama Tile Kiln ruins (日の出山瓦窯跡, Hinodeyama Kawara-gama ato) is an archaeological site consisting of the remains of seven Nara period kilns located in what is now the town of Shikama, Miyagi Prefecture in the Tōhoku region of northern Japan.
The list of plant species totals 471 and includes plants such as wild sarsaparilla, green and white trilliums, wild ginger, wild geranium, Virginia bluebells, Canada yew, arrowhead, wild leek, asparagus, wild yam, red mulberry, wild columbine, Canada anemone, chokecherry, Virginia creeper and St.
Commercial lime kilns were established during this period to provide for the construction boom and population growth which had been brought about by gold discoveries.
The site is approximately 2.2 kilometers by car from Mizuki Station on the JR Kyushu Kagoshima Main Line, or 4.6 kilometers west of the Dazaifu ruins.
Haniwa made at this site have been recovered from a wide area around Ibaraki Prefecture, including the Funazukayama Kofun on the north coast of Lake Kasumigaura, 15 kilometers away.
Green-glazed eaves tiles from the early to late Heian period were unearthed here, and green-glazed pottery was also found in the climbing kiln, indicating that the kiln was both a pottery and a tile-making kiln.
The festival was credited with helping to conserve the location from redevelopment as part of the Population White Paper in 2013.
The Fuchū-Yamanouchi kiln is located about one kilometer southwest of the Sanuki Kokubun-ji and is on the border between Sakaide and Takamatsu cities.
Overview The Dodo Sue Ware Kiln was a Sue ware pottery production site approximately four kilometers southeast of the modern city center of Tahara, in a hilly forest.
The kilns were made by digging a long hole on a slope of a hill, with smoke holes on the upper side.
Besides location in the kiln, (as with other fuel-fired updraft kilns) the way pieces are placed near each other affects the flame path, and, thus, the appearance of pieces within localized zones of the kiln can vary as well.
Although the number of babies born at Sean Ross declined rapidly in the 1950s, adoptions greatly increased due to the introduction of a legal process of adoption in 1953.
University The Deakin University campus at Waurn Ponds had its beginnings in the Gordon Institute of TAFE, who purchased land there in 1969.
These same types of tiles have been excavated from the nearby Shimotsuke Yakushi-ji temple ruins and the Shimotsuke Kokubun-ji ruins.
In 1690, the family purchased lands in New York's Mohawk Valley, paying one shilling per acre to the Crown.
The temple no longer exists, but the temple grounds were designated a National Historic Site in 1942.
A new source of copper was found in 1878 and led to the significant increase in mining infrastructure, including a new crushing mill, kilns and smelting furnaces, and an increase to 70 men being employed at the mine.
The most recent expansion, completed in August 2014, increased the total area of the centre to 47,000 square metres.
Since 1856, no major development has occurred on the site with the land being used for grazing, as part of Alpha Station.
A variety of different wares were manufactured during the kilns' history, including "jars, spittoons, wine pots, incense burners, cups, bowls, flasks, cases, writing-brush basins, dishes, handle-less cups, pots, wine cups, flat bowls, basins", and children's toys.
Advanced materials in the heating elements, such as molybdenum disilicide (MoSi2) offered in certain models can now produce working temperatures up to 1800 °C.
Subsequent investigations found that one kiln was used for the production of Sue ware, whereas 34 kilns were specialized for roof tile production.
The soil over the limestone is a fairly heavy clay which retains water, with the result that it helps keep vegetation alive during times of drought, but creates very wet conditions for long periods during the winter months.
Regrettably, several large white ash trees in the woodlots are presently dead or dying from emerald ash borer.
Overview Akahogi Tile Kiln site is located in the southeastern foothills of the Mihaka hills northwest of the central area of Takayama city.
There are several layers of glaze, and the glaze is often thicker than the clay body, as can be seen in sherds.
The user must monitor the process closely to achieve the desired results, adjusting time and power levels programmed on the microwave oven.
Each bung reached a height of twelve or thirteen units, often topped with newly moulded, unfired saggars.
It is located in the middle of two valleys, those of the Thue and the Seulles, not far from the plain of Caen.
Overview The Shinike site is located about 1.5 kilometers west of Imashirozuka Kofun and is one of the oldest and largest haniwa production sites in Japan.
The remains were found during the development of a housing complex and consist of the remains of four kilns, a workshop, and an ash field.
This underground climbing kiln was built by hollowing out granite bedrock on the slope of a hill during the Nara period.
New leases were taken up by the Gippsland Copper and Platinum Mining and Smelting Company in around 1910 with the intention to bring new technology and increase the mining of copper at Coopers Creek.
Further investigation of shards found at the site, as well as earlier finds from the Edo period in this neighborhood, revealed a number of ink markings and inscriptions which were identical to markings on existing tiles preserved at Tōdai-ji.
Two of the workshops have been restored as pit dwellings, and two kilns (one large ad one small) have been recreated as found during the excavation.
The remains of the latter half of the 8th century are thought to be a tile-making workshop for the Buzen Kokubun-ji, and include two large pillared buildings with eaves running north and south, and a 10x2 bay main building.
Suzu Pottery Kiln Sites The Suzu Pottery Kiln Sites (珠洲陶器窯跡, Suzu-tōki kama ato) is a designated National Historic Site of Japan.
The building was designed by the famous architect Giacomo Quarenghi and after some design changes built by Johann Georg Adam Berlitz in a neoclassical style.
1863 – Thomas Murray was granted 24 hectares (60 acres) (bought from Lawson?), Portion 52 in the parish of Cullen Bullen, County of Roxburgh.
The site has been known to have a connection with Tōdai-ji for many years, as roof tiles bearing the stamp of "Tōdai-ji" have been recovered from the area.
Overview The use of tiled roofs, which was a symbol of continental culture and the advanced state of the central administration, spread during the Asuka and Nara period to Buddhist temples and regional administrative centers.
A continuous supply of fuel is needed for firing, as wood thrown into the hot kiln is consumed very rapidly.
On 27 July 2020, journalist Alison O'Reilly, who broke the story of the Tuam Babies burial scandal in 2014, uncovered the names of the 1,024 children who died in Sean Ross Abbey.
Archaeological excavations of the site began from 1988, and the area was opened to the public as the "Haniwa Factory Park".
The Sanhe Tile Kiln (traditional Chinese: 三和瓦窯; simplified Chinese: 三和瓦窑; pinyin: Zhōngdōu Tángróng Zhuānyáochǎng) is a former tile manufacturing factory in Dashu District, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
Under Komen and Saltchuk's ownership, Roche Harbor has evolved into a year-round community with new neighborhoods of Craftsman-style homes, as well as businesses, activities and amenities that appeal to residents and visitors.
Further reading 刘涛 : 《当阳峪窑剔划花瓷器》 [Engraved ceramics from the Dangyangyu Kiln], Zhongyuan Wenwu 2000.01 (Beijing, 2000).
Another technique Heidelberg Materials uses to reduce impact is to use cRCP, which is old concrete that has been broken down back to its three basic components: aggregates, sand and powder.
The Continental Clay Brick Plant in Martinsburg, West Virginia includes a number of beehive brick kilns.
The Ninomiya kilns are located on the slope of a hill within the precincts of the Ōminakami Shrine, which is the ninomiya (second shrine), of Sanuki Province.
These are identical to tiles found at the site of Taga Castle, indicating that this was an official kiln of Mutsu Province.
Anne's school and the cemeteries, which was to continue to be maintained by the congregation, and remain accessible.
Day sold over five thousand fossils to Greene for this museum and another 10,000 of his collection were sold to the University of Michigan after his death.
At that time, the foundation of four buildings rebuilt during the Hakuhō period were confirmed, and the foundations of a pagoda to the south.
The Mantomi Tōdai-ji Tile Kiln ruins are located about 400 meters north of Mantomi Station on the JR West San'yō Main Line, on the western slope of a long, narrow hill.
Evidence of the nineteenth century phase of the use of the site is separately listed as Raffans Mill and Brick Bottle Kilns.
1655), or Kanagae Sanbee (金ヶ江三兵衛), often considered the father of Arita ware porcelain, first discovered porcelain clay at this location in what is now part of the town of Arita.
2 Mine, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Lime Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Soldier Creek Kilns, Stockton, Utah, NRHP-listed Frisco Charcoal Kilns, Milford, Utah, NRHP-listed == References ==
The artisan settlements consisted of a groups of two or three houses adjacent to the kilns, and it is estimated that there were seven or eight groups in the heyday.
An advantage of the chambered and semi-chambered variants appears to be that they are partly downdraft, which makes the firing results less sensitive to the way the ware is loaded.
With the assistance of the Milwaukee County Historical Society, a variety of community events and activities are scheduled year-round.
Imitations Guan ware is "the most frequently copied of all Chinese wares", and the imitations began immediately, at the many southern kilns producing Longquan celadon and other wares.
The park features the Ball's Falls Centre for Conservation to help visitors learn of the area's cultural and natural history.
Ninomiya Tile Kiln ruins (二ノ宮窯跡, Ninomiya kama ato) is an archaeological site consisting of the remains of two Nara period kilns located in what is now the Takase neighborhood of the city of Mitoyo, Kagawa Prefecture on the island of Shikoku, Japan.
Notable industrial buildings and structures include the Wrightsville Hardware Complex, the McConkey Building, the Wrightsville silk mill, and lime kilns.
The jagama (snake kiln or dragon kiln) is related to anagama, noborigama, and waritake kilns, and was used extensively in China since at least the 3rd century CE.
An old Yue ware dragon kiln had been revived, but the official wares were made in a northern-style mantou kiln, rare this far south.
The Irago Tōdai-ji Tile Kiln ruins (伊良湖東大寺瓦窯跡, Irago Tōdaiji gayō iseki) is an archaeological site containing the remnants of a number of Anagama kilns, from which the roof tiles for the Kamakura period reconstruction of the temple of Tōdai-ji in Nara were made.
Both types of construction involved the use of cement or mortar of which lime is an essential ingredient.
According to Li Huibing (李辉柄) of the China Research Centre for Ancient Ceramics (中国古陶瓷研究会 Zhongguo gu taoci yanjiuhui) it stands together with the famous kilns: Ru yao, Jun yao and Ding yao, which produced Ru ware, Jun ware and Ding ware.
The Forwood Monument is to the memory of Sir Arthur Forwood, a local businessman and politician, who died in 1898.
The Wrightsville Historic District is a national historic district that is located in Wrightsville in York County, Pennsylvania.
Pitch was familiar in 9th-century Iraq, derived from petroleum that became accessible from natural fields in the region.
(Katz was a Port Townsend merchant and future mayor of that city who during the joint military occupation established stores in Friday Harbor, Argyle, and San Juan Town, near the U.S.
The site was backfilled after excavation and is covered in forest, It is about 30 minutes walk from Gunma-Fujioka Station on the JR East Hachikō Line.
The enamel kiln (or muffle kiln) is of a different construction, with external flues, and was fired at 850C.
Great blue herons frequent the stream as it dries down in late spring and large numbers of carp become entrapped in isolated pools of remnant water.
Kakiemon Kiln Site The original Kakiemon Kiln Site (柿右衛門窯跡) in Minamiyama, Arita is located behind the current Kakiemon kiln on the western slope of the Toshikiyama Hills at an elevation of approximately 85 meters.
Kiln Firing Before firing the kiln, the kiln operators would offer prayers to an altar box above the firing box.
The site is located in the Seto neighborhood in Higashi-ku in the city of Okayama, Okayama Prefecture in the San'yō region of Japan.
A full concrete foundation was placed under the Hotel de Haro in 2013, requiring the 127-year-old building be lifted a half-inch to accommodate the concrete pour.
Kido Tile Kiln site (木戸瓦窯跡, Kido Kawara Kama-ato) is an archaeological site with the remains of a late Nara period, early Heian period kiln for roof tile production located in what is now the city of Ōsaki, Miyagi Prefecture in the Tōhoku region of northern Japan.
Film and television Roche Harbor was featured in "Namu the Killer Whale," a 1966 family drama filmed in the San Juan Islands and starring Robert Lansing and Lee Meriwether and featuring Clara Tarte, co-owner of Roche Harbor Resort.
Roche Harbor is a sheltered harbor on the northwest side of San Juan Island in San Juan County, Washington, United States, and the site of a resort of the same name.
Also gone are the remaining company buildings, with the exception of the old warehouse, which were across the road to the west.
History Located on the east bank of Rock Creek, at the terminus of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, the kilns produced lime for construction of the city of Washington, D.C.
Kiln No.5 and Kiln No.6 had lengths of 5.5 meters and 5.8 meters respectively, and share the same vestibule.
This type of flat tile is also used at the top of the south wall of the kiln and at the entrance to the firing box.
Until the discovery of this site 1950s, it was not known that pottery had been made on the Atsumi Peninsula.
DE-2, "Eastburn–Jeanes Limekilns, On Papermill Road & on Pike Creek Road, Newark vicinity, New Castle County, DE", 4 photos, 2 measured drawings, 14 data pages
The site covers about 68 hectares and found in 1956, it was the source place of underglaze by the Palace Museum's identification in 1957.
The Quartz Roasting Pits Complex is one of the oldest goldrush sites in Australia and represents one of the first attempts to process gold bearing ore.
In 1967, a Sue pottery engraved with the words "Mino Kuni" was excavated from the remains of the Asakura kiln at the southern foot of the mountain, and more than four kiln sites were later discovered.
The site is located approximately 18 minutes by car from Toyohashi Railroad Atsumi Line Mikawa-Tahara Station.
Description and history The area that is now Rockland was settled as part of Thomaston in the late 18th century.
Some of the Sue pottery made at these sites have been discovered at various locations around Japan, including the site of the Heijō Palace in Nara, Ise Shrine in Mie prefecture and the Mino Kokubun-ji ruins.
Inbe Nishi-Ogama site The Inbe Nishi-Ogama site (伊部西大窯跡) is located at the eastern foot of Mount Iou, about 600 meters northwest of Inbe Station.
Provincial park The Manitou Islands Provincial Nature Reserve protects 4 of the 5 islands (as a private island, Calder Island is excluded), and also has a 1-kilometer-wide zone around the islands that protects the submarine lakebeds.
Following excavations in starting in 1996 it is now thought that the site has been found, as the Laohudong or Tiger Cave Kiln [老虎洞窑] on the outskirts of the city.
A brick clamp is a traditional method of baking bricks, done by stacking unbaked bricks with fuel under or among them, then igniting the fuel.
Doub's son, Peyton Doub, from 1992 to 2007 and his other son, Albert Doub and family currently live in the house.
His daughter's Dorothea von Medem's marriage to the Duke of Courland Peter von Biron in 1779 further elevated von Medems’ standing among the local nobles.
Enshū's Seven Kilns (遠州七窯 Enshū chō or Enshū nana gama) is a list of Japanese pottery kilns whose products were considered amongst the favourites of the Japanese tea ceremony master Kobori Enshū (小堀 遠州 1579–1647), who lived during the Edo period.
See also Volcanism of Canada Volcanism of Eastern Canada List of volcanoes in Canada Callander Bay == References ==
The lower firing port is buried, but the ceiling near the back wall remains, and there is also a smoke vent, so the structure of the semi-underground climbing kiln is preserved.
It is long and thin, and relies on having a fairly steep slope, typically between 10° and 16°, up which the kiln runs.
The pass, reaching 968 ft (295 m) above sea level at the head of the valley, links to Wyresdale, dividing the upland core of Bowland into two main blocks.
What is believed to be the former location of the Sykes Smelt Mill is now the headquarters of the Bowland Pennine Mountain Rescue Team.
By pouring hot wood tar onto somebody's bare skin and waiting for it to cool, they would remain stuck in one position.
The use of stannic (tin) compounds in the glaze was specific to Laverstock ware and, using modern techniques of analysis, their presence serves to distinguish these artefacts from items produced elsewhere.
During the period when kilns were larger, many were perforated flue kilns, which were unique to the Ushikubi site and had multiple flues deep inside the firing section.
The Nakaoue climbing kiln (中尾上登り窯), was over 160 meters long and 33 firing chambers, the Nagaohon climbing kiln (永尾本登り窯), was 155 meters long, and had 29 firing chambers.
This is essentially a counter-current heat exchanger, which makes for a very efficient use of heat and fuel.
By deed dated 24 December 1720 the aforesaid Morley Saunders leased, inter alia, the townland of Drumhurn, to Thomas Enery of Bawnboy for a term of 41 years.
While the Kurisuno tile kilns was in operation throughout the Heian period, tiles from the Minamishoda and Entsuji tile kilns have been excavated only from the late Heian period.
The kilns produced celadon around the Shanglin Lake area during the Tang, Han, and Song dynasties are referred to as such.
4 has a boat-shaped plan, with a total length of 6.3 meters, firing section maximum width of 2.2 meters.
Various industries use rotary kilns for pyroprocessing (to calcinate ores, such as limestone to lime for cement) and to transform many other materials.
The three surviving beehive-shaped kilns were built of local sandstone about 30 feet (9.1 m) in circumference and about 30 feet (9.1 m) high, with 24-inch-thick (61 cm) walls.
Tiles from these kilns have been found in throughout the northern Kyushu region, and tiles for repairing kokubunji temples from the first half of the 9th century were unearthed at the Uto kiln site.
Paul earned good money by raising horses and opening a brewery, which made him a profit of 100 000 rubles per year.
Prior to this, it was part of the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton (formed on 1 April 2019) and, before this, the district of West Somerset (established under the Local Government Act 1972).
In 1799 he married Maria Louise Elisabeth, daughter of Peter von der Pahlen, a favorite of emperor Paul I of Russia.
This ceremony is depicted at the Juno Beach Centre where a flag is displayed showing the Canadian Red Ensign with, in the top left corner, the Union Jack, the flag of the United Kingdom formed by the superposition of the cross of St.
Overview The Konda Hakuchō site is located in between the Konda Mitoyama Kofun (tomb of Emperor Ōjin) and the Hakayama Kofun in the Furuichi Kofun Cluster, and was the location where the thousands of haniwa used in these, and other burial mounds in the area.
Local farmer and philanthropist Caroline Foster has said it is likely that Munsee farmers cultivated corn in the summertime in the fields of the Washington Valley.
It is thought that the name derives from an Aboriginal word meaning camp, although another authority states that the original name was Warren's Chain of Ponds.
The Lester Monument is to the memory of Canon Major Thomas Lester who died in 1903, and who founded charities for children in Liverpool.
The presence of kilns in the era was reflected in local legends which stated that the famed Buddhist priest Kūkai instructed the locals on the manufacturing of roof tiles during his travels in this region of Shikoku.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Aomori) References External links Goshogawara city official site (in Japanese) Aomori prefectural site Archived 2018-10-01 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)
Discontinuous and SSV (super-heated steam) use atmosphere pressure to introduce heat into the kiln charge.
The Five Great Kilns (Chinese: 五大名窯; pinyin: Wǔ dàmíng yáo), also known as Five Famous Kilns, is a generic term for ceramic kilns or wares (in Chinese 窯 yáo can mean either) which produced Chinese ceramics during the Song dynasty (960–1279) that were later held in particularly high esteem.
The rapid cooling of molten glass results in an uneven temperature distribution throughout the material.
Most of Byrne's charcoal was shipped to the area around Salt Lake City (the Utah Valley) for use in small smelters and blacksmith shops.
The Avenue of Honour was planted in July 1919 by the residents of Waurn Ponds as a tribute to the Waurn Ponds World War I servicemen.
The Muneyoshi Tile Kiln ruins are located on a slightly elevated slope of a hilly area surrounded by farmland.
Most of the artifacts found are cylindrical haniwa pieces, but figurative haniwa pieces of various types have also been found.
The location of the site is not disclosed; they are listed as "Address Restricted", as is done for archeological resources that may be damaged and lose their information potential, if not protected.
The temple site is about a 20-minute walk from Tondabayashi Station on the Kintetsu Railway Kintetsu Nagano Line.
The castle, surrounded by a large park, is composed of a central pavilion topped by a triangular pediment and flanked by two wings at the front.
It is in white stone with a bronze wreath, and includes the figure of Britannia, military objects, standing soldiers, and a drummer boy.
The Ōyamazaki Tile Kiln was located in the southwestern tip of Kyoto Prefecture, at a strategic point for water and land transportation.
Two of the four kilns were removed to make way for ramps between Rock Creek Parkway and Whitehurst Freeway.
References External links Media related to Atsumi Kiln at Wikimedia Commons http://www.tnm.jp/modules/r_collection/index.php?controller=dtl_img&size=L&colid=E15464&t=type&id=34&lang=en
Chemical changes The lime stones selected were those that had the least amount of impurities within them.
The firing chamber has six stages and the width of each step is wide, which is different from the others.
In 1995, he participated in Fire and Clay, a symposium of international clay sculptors held in Iksan.
The American International School of Budapest chose Nagykovácsi as the site for its new campus in 2000.
The Narayama Tile Kiln Sites (奈良山瓦窯跡, Narayama kawara gama ato) is the collective name for several archaeological sites containing Nara period kilns located in northern Nara city in Nara Prefecture and southern Kizugawa city in Kyoto Prefecture in the Kansai region of Japan.
Early history Portland cement clinker was first made (in 1825) in a modified form of the traditional static lime kiln.
According to local legend, the site was originally a Hachiman shrine, but the location of the shrine was turned into a pond due to the amount of clay excavated.
Deeds dated 13 Nov 1738 and 30 April 1740 both list the name of the hill as Drumhurn, and the later deed lists it as being owned by Thomas Enery.
Overview Ushikubi Sue Ware Kilns were located in the southeastern part of the Fukuoka Plain, and operated from the mid-6th century to the mid-9th century.
Overview The Hongō Haniwa Kiln was located is located on the slope of a river terrace facing the Kanna River on the south side of modern Fujioka.
The Niihari temple ruins (新治廃寺跡, Niihari Haiji ato) is an archaeological site with the ruins of a Buddhist temple located in the Kujira neighborhood of the city of Chikusei, Ibaraki, Japan.
These kilns were located in hilly land, near the sources of clay and fuel for the kilns; however, from the design patterns on shards found at the site, it can be determined that the tiles from the Hinodeyama kilns were used at Taga Castle, 40 kilometers to the south, among other areas.
At its height in the 1870s, the business held over 500 acres (2.0 km2; 200 ha) of land and employed nearly 40 people.
At that time, more than a dozen kilns ruins were found at intervals of four meters along the terraced cliffs, of which two were excavated in detail.
The park is also the site of a hibernaculum for more than 30,000 bats of six species, including the endangered Indiana bat.
The park contains replicas of the 20 types of haniwa (cylindrical, animal, house-shaped, or warrior) which have been found on this site).
J., Chinese Pottery and Porcelain, 1991, British Museum Press, ISBN 978-0-7141-1470-5 Wood, Nigel: Oxford Art Online, section "Dragon (long) kilns" in "China, §VIII, 2.2: Ceramics: Materials and techniques, Materials and techniques".
Heidelberg is the current world leader in producing construction aggregates (293.7 million tonnes/year), 2nd largest in cement production (126.5 million tonnes/year) and 3rd largest producer of ready-mixed concrete (45 million m3/year).
Also known as the Waterman Coking Ovens, they were listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) in 1980.
The initial capital was increased to 2.5 mio francs in 1919, to 4.25 mio francs in April 1923 and to 5 mio francs in May 1929.
In preheater installations which may have a high pressure-drop, considerable fan power may be needed, and the fan drive is often the largest drive in the kiln system.
The Coopers Creek campsite is a popular camping site and includes a long drop toilet, picnic tables, a boat ramp as well as walking and four-wheel drive tracks.
This collection of sites was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on March 28, 2008, in the Cultural category.
Both the townsite, which was across the road and to the southwest, and the farmstead, which was behind the kilns to the south, are gone.
The Evans brothers built two lime kilns nearby in 1912, and had their own siding at the station, connected to the kilns by a tramway.
Here D ( f ) {\displaystyle D(f)} is the deterministic query complexity and Q ( f ) {\displaystyle Q(f)} is the quantum query complexity.
For instance, as de Bruijn observes, a 5 ⋅ 6 {\displaystyle 5\cdot 6} rectangular box can be filled with copies of a 2 ⋅ 3 {\displaystyle 2\cdot 3} rectangular brick, although not with all the bricks oriented the same way.
A notable counterexample is icosahedral graph: as a 5-regular and planar graph it does not have any vertex shared by at most four edges).
The vertices of a smooth curve correspond to the cusps of its evolute, the curve formed by the centers of curvature of the given curve.
Later, Friedman defined the more general subcubic graphs SCG ( k ) {\displaystyle {\text{SCG}}(k)} .
Call them B {\displaystyle B} and C {\displaystyle C} , with B {\displaystyle B} being closest to P ′ {\displaystyle P'} (and possibly coinciding with it).
The theorem was independently proved by Orrin Frink and Paul Smith, also in 1930, but their proof was never published.
(Each vertex in this case also has in-degree 2, but that is not necessary for a synchronizing coloring to exist.) The edges of this graph have been colored red and blue to create a synchronizing coloring.
Relation to Tutte's theorem Tutte's theorem on perfect matchings characterizes the graphs with perfect matchings as being the ones for which deleting any subset U {\displaystyle U} of vertices creates at most | U | {\displaystyle |U|} odd components.
The set of all combinatorial lines can be described as the edges of a complete graph on the vertices.
It strengthens an earlier theorem of Hassler Whitney according to which every 4-vertex-connected maximal planar graph has a Hamiltonian cycle.
In mathematics, the Sims conjecture is a result in group theory, originally proposed by Charles Sims.
Then, they color each vertex v of T with a color i such that the hyperedge assigned to v is a neighbor of i.
Thus there must be at least n 2 / 4 C ( 2 C − 1 ) {\displaystyle n^{2}/4C(2C-1)} lines connecting at least two points, and the claim follows by taking K = 4 C ( 2 C − 1 ) {\displaystyle K=4C(2C-1)} .
Therefore, the maximum current through the electrical network is less than the weight of the minimum cut of the flow graph: lim V i n → ∞ ( I i n ) ≤ min X C ∑ ( a , b ) ∈ X C w a b .
In mathematics, the four color theorem, or the four color map theorem, states that no more than four colors are required to color the regions of any map so that no two adjacent regions have the same color.
Denjoy–Riesz theorem The Denjoy–Riesz theorem gives general conditions under which a point set can be covered by the homeomorphic image of a curve.
The Star of David theorem is a mathematical result on arithmetic properties of binomial coefficients.
Next, replace every vertex v ∈ V ( D ) {\displaystyle v\in V(D)} by two vertices v ′ {\displaystyle v'} and v ″ {\displaystyle v''} , and replace every directed edge u v {\displaystyle uv} of the oriented graph by an undirected edge from u ′ {\displaystyle u'} to v ″ {\displaystyle v''} .
A parallel development of similar ideas in algebraic topology has been credited to Egbert van Kampen, Arnold S.
It is a fundamental tool in statistical mechanics and probabilistic combinatorics (especially random graphs and the probabilistic method).
Similarly, the minimum fractional vertex-cover size in G = ( V , E ) {\displaystyle G=(V,E)} is the solution of the following LP:Minimize 1V · y Subject to: y ≥ 0V __________ AGT · y ≥ 1E.where y is a vector of size |V| in which each element represents the weight of a vertex in the fractional cover.
Preliminaries Hall's marriage theorem provides a condition guaranteeing that a bipartite graph (X + Y, E) admits a perfect matching, or - more generally - a matching that saturates all vertices of Y.
Halin graphs A Halin graph is a graph formed from an undirected plane tree (with no degree-two nodes) by connecting its leaves into a cycle, in the order given by the plane embedding of the tree.
Motivated by the finite field Kakeya conjecture, Wolff conjectured that when p is a (large) prime, for every subset A ⊆ 𝔽p, the inequality max(|A + A|, |AA|) ≥ min(p, |A|1+ε) holds for an absolute constant ε > 0.
Sharpness of the conjecture Erdős and Szemerédi give an example of a sufficiently smooth set of integers A with the bound max { | A + A | , | A ⋅ A | } ≤ | A | 2 e − c log ⁡ | A | log ⁡ log ⁡ | A | {\displaystyle \max\{|A+A|,|A\cdot A|\}\leq |A|^{2}e^{-{\frac {c\log |A|}{\log \log |A|}}}} .
The geometric realization of K Δ ∗ 2 {\displaystyle K_{\Delta }^{*2}} is homeomorphic to the sphere S d + 1 {\displaystyle S^{d+1}} , therefore, the Z2-index of K Δ ∗ 2 {\displaystyle K_{\Delta }^{*2}} equals d + 1 {\displaystyle d+1} .
In other words, the proportion of nodes in the tree at level n never drops below a lower bound, no matter how deep we go down the tree.
In any case, to deal with this degree 5 vertex case requires a more complicated notion than removing a vertex.
Frederic Chyzak Enumerating alcohols and other classes of chemical molecules, an example of Pólya theory.
A coloring with the number of colors described by Brooks' theorem is sometimes called a Brooks coloring or a Δ-coloring.
The conjecture In 1973, Stefan Burr and Paul Erdős made the following conjecture: For every integer p there exists a constant cp so that any p-degenerate graph G on n vertices has Ramsey number at most cp n.
{\displaystyle \gcd \left({n-1 \choose k-2},{n-1 \choose k-1},{n-1 \choose k},{n-1 \choose k+1}\right).} Thus in the above example for the element 84 (in its rightmost appearance), we also have gcd(70, 56, 28, 8) = 2.
Then S has to be a Tutte violator, since if odd(G − S) ≤ |S|, then we could find a perfect matching by matching one vertex from every odd component with a vertex from S and pairing up all other vertices (this will work unless |V| is odd, but then ∅ is a Tutte violator).
Then, one can use these better gates to recursively create even better gates, until one has gates with the desired failure probability, which can be used for the desired quantum circuit.
For any computable function that represents an increase in computational resources, one can find a resource bound such that the set of functions computable within the expanded resource bound is the same as the set computable within the original bound.
The De Bruijn–Erdős theorem may also be used to extend Dilworth's theorem from finite to infinite partially ordered sets.
It belongs to the field of combinatorics, and is named after John Adrian Bondy, who published it in 1972.
Let P f ( N ) {\displaystyle {\mathcal {P}}_{f}(\mathbb {N} )} denote the set of finite subsets of N {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} } , and define a partial order on P f ( N ) {\displaystyle {\mathcal {P}}_{f}(\mathbb {N} )} by α<β if and only if max α<min β.
Therefore, the upper bound theorem implies that the number of faces of an arbitrary polytope can never be more than the number of faces of a cyclic or neighborly polytope with the same dimension and number of vertices.
Planar graphs are also not capable of realizing all groups as their symmetries; for instance, the only finite simple groups that are symmetries of planar graphs are the cyclic groups and the alternating group A 5 {\displaystyle A_{5}} .
Generalizing both Helly's theorem and Doignon's theorem, the Helly number of the Cartesian product Z d × R k {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} ^{d}\times \mathbb {R} ^{k}} is 2 d ( k + 1 ) {\displaystyle 2^{d}(k+1)} .
Then, alternatively, the Milliken–Taylor theorem asserts that the collection of MTk sets is partition regular for each k.
(1967), Theory of Recursive Functions and Effective Computability, McGraw-Hill, MR 0224462 Truss, J.
Both Nash-Williams' theorem and Menger's theorem characterize when a graph has k edge-disjoint paths between two vertices.
Fulkerson (1960) obtained a characterization analogous to the classical Erdős–Gallai theorem for graphs, but in contrast to this solution with exponentially many inequalities.
Neural network solutions The knight's tour problem also lends itself to being solved by a neural network implementation.
One important consequence of the theorem is that, for reversible cellular automata, the reverse dynamics of the automaton can also be described by a cellular automaton.
Proof of Van der Waerden's theorem (in a special case) The following proof is due to Ron Graham, B.L.
More generally, every planar graph of minimum degree at least three either has an edge of total degree at most 12, or at least 60 edges that (like the edges in the triakis icosahedron) connect vertices of degrees 3 and 10.
The first graph R {\displaystyle \mathbf {R} } is obtained by replacing each edge { v i , v j } {\displaystyle \{v_{i},v_{j}\}} of R {\displaystyle R} with the complete bipartite graph between the corresponding vertex sets V i {\displaystyle V_{i}} and V j {\displaystyle V_{j}} .
In this way, the combinatorial formulation for finite families of finite sets and the graph-theoretic formulation for finite graphs are equivalent.
Blum's speedup theorem, which provides speedup by any computable function (not just linear, as in the previous theorem).
The problem of obtaining bounds in the k=3 case of Szemerédi's theorem in the vector space F 3 n {\displaystyle \mathbb {F} _{3}^{n}} is known as the cap set problem.
One could try to fix it by requiring that NH(Y0) contain at least |Y0| disjoint edges, rather than just |Y0| edges.
If there is still several non-eliminated candidates after all ballots have been examined, then an arbitrary tie-breaking rule is used.
The number of configurations in this graph is O ( 2 f ( n ) ) {\displaystyle O(2^{f(n)})} , from which it follows that applying the algorithm to this implicit graph uses space O ( f ( n ) 2 ) {\displaystyle O(f(n)^{2})} .
The function SCG ( k ) {\displaystyle {\text{SCG}}(k)} denotes that length for (general) subcubic graphs.
(Each machine, once purchased, can be used by any selected project.) To solve the problem, let P be the set of projects not selected and Q be the set of machines purchased, then the problem can be formulated as, max { g } = ∑ i r ( p i ) − ∑ p i ∈ P r ( p i ) − ∑ q j ∈ Q c ( q j ) .
Since we have a contradiction in all cases, the original hypothesis must be false; thus there must exist at least one combinatorial line consisting entirely of noughts or entirely of crosses.
For instance, the most frequently used bricks in the USA have dimensions 2 1 4 ⋅ 4 ⋅ 8 {\displaystyle 2{\tfrac {1}{4}}\cdot 4\cdot 8} (in inches), which is not harmonic, but a type of brick sold as "Roman brick" has the harmonic dimensions 2 ⋅ 4 ⋅ 12 {\displaystyle 2\cdot 4\cdot 12} .
In other words, whatever colours you use, there will always be at least one monochromatic triangle ( that is, a triangle all of whose edges have the same color ).
For example, V 2 ( 20 ) = 4 {\displaystyle V_{2}(20)=4} , and V 3 ( 20 ) = 1 {\displaystyle V_{3}(20)=1} .
S must preserve the branching structure of T; i.e., if a nonmaximal node in S has n immediate successors in T, then it has n immediate successors in S.
This allows the correctness of a planarity testing algorithm to be verified for nonplanar inputs, as it is straightforward to test whether a given subgraph is or is not a Kuratowski subgraph.
On the sphere the lower bound is easy, whereas for higher genera the upper bound is easy and was proved in Heawood's original short paper that contained the conjecture.
The buffer vertices are subsequently embedded by using Hall's marriage theorem to find a perfect matching between the buffer vertices and the remaining vertices of G {\displaystyle G} .
The Wallace–Bolyai–Gerwien theorem states that this can be done if and only if two polygons have the same area.
Linear algebra In linear algebra, Schur’s theorem is referred to as either the triangularization of a square matrix with complex entries, or of a square matrix with real entries and real eigenvalues.
In computer science, the Akra–Bazzi method, or Akra–Bazzi theorem, is used to analyze the asymptotic behavior of the mathematical recurrences that appear in the analysis of divide and conquer algorithms where the sub-problems have substantially different sizes.
Let Vi denote the vertices of Gi and let mi denote the number of edges of G with one vertex in Vi and one vertex in U.
The simplex method starts at an arbitrary vertex of the polytope and repeatedly moves towards an adjacent vertex that improves the function value; when no improvement can be made, the optimal function value has been reached.
The Franklin graph can be drawn on the Klein bottle in a way that forms six mutually-adjacent regions, showing that this bound is tight.
Berger, Annabell (2018), "Majorization and the number of bipartite graphs for given vertex degrees", Transactions on Combinatorics, 1: 19–30, doi:10.22108/toc.2017.21469.
More strongly, for every simple polygon, every sequence of flips will eventually produce a convex polygon, in a finite number of steps.
However, the subset sum problem can be reduced to the problem of computing the required partition C1, C2, ..., Cn of columns: Given an input set S for the subset sum problem we can write the elements of S in a matrix of shape 1 × |S|.
{\displaystyle n^{3/2}\left({\frac {1}{2}}+o(1)\right).} Erdős & Simonovits (1982) conjectured that, more generally, the maximum number of edges in a 2k-cycle-free graph is n 1 + 1 / k ( 1 2 + o ( 1 ) ) .
In discrete mathematics, the Bregman–Minc inequality, or Bregman's theorem, allows one to estimate the permanent of a binary matrix via its row or column sums.
Because B P ⋅ ⊕ P {\displaystyle {\mathsf {BP}}\cdot \oplus {\mathsf {P}}} contains P {\displaystyle {\mathsf {P}}} and is closed under complement, it follows by induction that P H ⊆ B P ⋅ ⊕ P {\displaystyle {\mathsf {PH}}\subseteq {\mathsf {BP}}\cdot \oplus {\mathsf {P}}} .
A schema is a template that identifies a subset of strings with similarities at certain string positions.
In this language, the original tetris operation is induced by the map T : n ↦ max { n − 1 , 0 } {\displaystyle T\colon n\mapsto \max\{n-1,0\}} .
Perhaps it is true that: for any non-planar graph H, there exists a positive integer k such that every H-free graph can be obtained via k-clique-sums from a list of graphs, each of which either has at most k vertices or embeds on some surface that H does not embed on.
Neutrality: the decision rule treats each alternative or candidate equally (a free and fair election).
The Pólya enumeration theorem has been incorporated into symbolic combinatorics and the theory of combinatorial species.
(1971), "Pancyclic graphs", Proceedings of the Second Louisiana Conference on Combinatorics, Graph Theory and Computing (Louisiana State Univ., Baton Rouge, La., 1971), Baton Rouge, Louisiana: Louisiana State University, pp.
Bounds on the Erdős–Pósa function In addition to proving that the function f(k) exists, Erdős & Pósa (1965) obtained the bounds c1k log k < f(k) < c2k log k for some constants c1 and c2.
The Sylvester–Gallai theorem implies that it is impossible for all nine of these points to have real coordinates.
Quantum analogs Nonlocal games version A version of the PCP theorem for quantum nonlocal games would state that it is computationally hard to approximate the quantum value of a quantum nonlocal game.
For any noncomputable subset X {\displaystyle X} of ω {\displaystyle \omega } the tree has a path that does not compute X {\displaystyle X} .
For any subtree T {\displaystyle T} of ω < ω {\displaystyle \omega ^{<\omega }} the notation Ext ⁡ ( T ) {\displaystyle \operatorname {Ext} (T)} denotes the set of nodes of T {\displaystyle T} through which there is an infinite path.
If no more than n − k points lie on any line for some 0 ≤ k < n − 2, then there exist Ω(nk) lines determined by the points of S.
Conversely, if O is a set of operations, then Inv(O) denotes the set of relations having all operations in O as a polymorphism.
Regan’s thesis is that the existence of linear speedup has to do with having a polynomial information vicinity.
For the complete graph, every two vertices are at distance one from each other, so every edge must belong to exactly one of these complete bipartite graphs.
Pósa-Seymour Conjecture In 1962, Lajos Pósa conjectured that every n {\displaystyle n} -vertex graph with minimum degree at least 2 n 3 {\displaystyle {\frac {2n}{3}}} contains the square of a Hamiltonian cycle, generalizing Dirac's theorem.
Erdős asked whether it could be the case that lim sup n → ∞ r B , 2 ( n ) log ⁡ n > 0 {\displaystyle \limsup _{n\to \infty }{\frac {r_{{\mathcal {B}},2}(n)}{\log n}}>0} whenever B ⊆ N {\displaystyle {\mathcal {B}}\subseteq \mathbb {N} } is an additive basis of order 2.
All faces (including the outer one) are then bounded by three edges, explaining the alternative term plane triangulation (which technically means a plane drawing of the graph).
Computational complexity Given a triangle-free planar graph, a 3-coloring of the graph can be found in linear time.
With some further transformations it can be turned into a single strip, and hence gives a method for transforming a triangle mesh such that its dual graph becomes hamiltonian.
The pure-group languages were the first interesting family of regular languages for which the star height problem was proved to be decidable.
There are typically many cuts in a graph, but cuts with smaller weights are often more difficult to find.
For triangle-free graphs, or more generally graphs in which the neighborhood of every vertex is sufficiently sparse, O(Δ/log Δ) colors suffice.
The theorem is named after Victor Eberhard, a blind German mathematician, who published it in 1888 in his habilitation thesis and in expanded form in an 1891 book on polyhedra.
(1984), "A correlational inequality for linear extensions of a poset", Order, 1 (2): 127–137, doi:10.1007/BF00565648, ISSN 0167-8094, MR 0764320, S2CID 121406218 "Fishburn-Shepp inequality", Encyclopedia of Mathematics, EMS Press, 2001 [1994] Shepp, L.
Now we apply Radon's theorem to the set A = {x1, ..., xn}, which furnishes us with disjoint subsets A1, A2 of A such that the convex hull of A1 intersects the convex hull of A2.
Similarly, he observed that perfect graphs cannot contain odd antiholes, induced subgraphs complementary to odd holes: an odd antihole with 2k + 1 vertices has clique number k and chromatic number k + 1, which is again impossible for perfect graphs.
Another way of stating Wagner's theorem is that there are only two minor-minimal non-planar graphs, K5 and K3,3.
That is, if each edge of the complete bipartite graph is assigned a set of n {\displaystyle n} colors, it is possible to choose one of the assigned colors for each edge such that no two edges incident to the same vertex have the same color.
History The theorem is named after German mathematician Herbert Grötzsch, who published its proof in 1959.
And for the cycles in a disjoint cycle cover to have a given collection of lengths, it is also necessary for the sum of the given cycle lengths to equal the total number of edges in the given graph.
Furthermore, this implication is strict, as there are models of ZF minus regularity in which Frucht's theorem for infinite groups fails.
The counterexample given above for a continuous and shift-equivariant map which is not a classical cellular automaton, is an example of a generalized cellular automaton.
For any elements x {\displaystyle x} and y {\displaystyle y} in a vector space, the set [ x , y ] := { t x + ( 1 − t ) y : 0 ≤ t ≤ 1 } {\displaystyle [x,y]:=\{tx+(1-t)y:0\leq t\leq 1\}} is called the closed line segment or closed interval between x {\displaystyle x} and y .
Knuth, Donald (2011), "7.2.1.3", The Art of Computer Programming, volume 4A: Combinatorial algorithms, part 1, p.
Additionally, subdividing a graph cannot turn a nonplanar graph into a planar graph: if a subdivision of a graph G {\displaystyle G} has a planar drawing, the paths of the subdivision form curves that may be used to represent the edges of G {\displaystyle G} itself.
A closely related theorem by Meyniel (1973) states that an n-vertex strongly connected digraph with the property that, for every two nonadjacent vertices u and v, the total number of edges incident to u or v is at least 2n − 1 must be Hamiltonian.
In 2019, Peter Allen, Julia Böttcher, Hiep Hàn, Yoshiharu Kohayakawa, and Yury Person, found sparse analogues of the blow-up lemma for embedding bounded degree graphs into random and pseudorandom graphs == References ==
In a partial geometry, a largest system of pairwise-intersecting lines can be obtained from the set of lines through any single point.
Then there exists a family P of disjoint A-B-paths and a separating set which consists of exactly one vertex from each path in P.
Informally, the conclusion is that such words w {\displaystyle w} have also a third, shorter period.
In extremal graph theory, the even circuit theorem is a result of Paul Erdős according to which an n-vertex graph that does not have a simple cycle of length 2k can only have O(n1 + 1/k) edges.
Since the Indic writing systems used for Sanskrit are syllabic, each syllable can be thought of as representing a square on a chessboard.
Generalizing Hall's theorem to hypergraphs requires a generalization of the concepts of bipartiteness, perfect matching, and neighbors.
Let v {\displaystyle v} be the vertex added to G ′ {\displaystyle G'} to obtain G {\displaystyle G} .
However, for planar graphs with vertices of degree lower than three, variants of the theorem have been proven, showing that either there is an edge of bounded total degree or some other special kind of subgraph.
On the other hand, this bound would not remain valid if one replaces the coefficient 2.44 with 0.42.
it gives a necessary and sufficient condition for two finite sequences of natural numbers to be the degree sequence of a labeled simple bipartite graph; a sequence obeying these conditions is called "bigraphic".
Veblen, Oswald (1912), "An Application of Modular Equations in Analysis Situs", Annals of Mathematics, Second Series, 14 (1): 86–94, doi:10.2307/1967604, JSTOR 1967604
Pogorelov's uniqueness theorem is a result by Pogorelov generalizing both of these results and applying to general convex surfaces.
Equivalently, Player 1's strategy guarantees them a payoff of V regardless of Player 2's strategy, and similarly Player 2 can guarantee themselves a payoff of −V.
Richard Karp's subsequent paper, "Reducibility among combinatorial problems", generated renewed interest in Cook's paper by providing a list of 21 NP-complete problems.
CON's score is the number of explosions when all vertices are gone, or infinity if some isolated vertices remain.
Ordinal analysis confirms the strength of Kruskal's theorem, with the proof-theoretic ordinal of the theorem equaling the small Veblen ordinal (sometimes confused with the smaller Ackermann ordinal).
AM = MA A modification of the above proof yields N P ⊆ P / p o l y ⟹ A M = M A {\displaystyle {\mathsf {NP}}\subseteq {\mathsf {P/poly}}\implies {\mathsf {AM}}={\mathsf {MA}}} (see Arthur–Merlin protocol).
The following claim appears in the literature under name of the blow-up lemma and was first proven by Komlós, Sárközy, and Szemerédi.
(2003), "5.1 Nonembeddability Theorems: An Introduction", Using the Borsuk–Ulam Theorem: Lectures on Topological Methods in Combinatorics and Geometry, Springer-Verlag, pp.
The Robertson–Seymour theorem states that finite undirected graphs and graph minors form a well-quasi-ordering.
In 2005 Irit Dinur discovered a significantly simpler proof of the PCP theorem, using expander graphs.
Truemper observed that every grid graph is reducible by ΔY- and YΔ-transformations in this way, that this reducibility is preserved by graph minors, and that every planar graph is a minor of a grid graph.
The class P#P consists of all problems that can be solved in polynomial time if you have access to instantaneous answers to any counting problem in #P (polynomial time relative to a #P oracle).
Together with the speedup theorem, the gap theorem and the time and space hierarchy theorems it is a basis for hierarchies in complexity theory.
Braids are algebraic objects described by diagrams; the relation to topology is given by Alexander's theorem which states that every knot or link in three-dimensional Euclidean space is the closure of a braid.
If none of AB, BC, CA is blue, then all three edges are red and we have a red triangle, namely, ABC.
The (still unsolved) Erdős–Ulam problem asks whether there can exist a set of points at rational distances from each other that forms a dense set for the whole Euclidean plane.
Statement of the theorem If r ≥ 0 is finite and κ is an infinite cardinal, then exp r ⁡ ( κ ) + ⟶ ( κ + ) κ r + 1 {\displaystyle \exp _{r}(\kappa )^{+}\longrightarrow (\kappa ^{+})_{\kappa }^{r+1}} where exp0(κ) = κ and inductively expr+1(κ)=2expr(κ).
Analogously, a set of added wires (which can bend to reduce the distance between the points they connect, but cannot expand) makes the grid rigid if an associated directed graph is strongly connected.
The existential power of the first quantifier in this predicate can be used to guess a correct circuit for SAT, and the universal power of the second quantifier can be used to verify that the circuit is correct.
(1969), "A generalization of a combinatorial theorem of Macaulay", Journal of Combinatorial Theory, 7 (3): 230–238, doi:10.1016/S0021-9800(69)80016-5, MR 0246781.
(1978), "An inequality for the weights of two families of sets, their unions and intersections", Probability Theory and Related Fields, 43 (3): 183–185, CiteSeerX 10.1.1.380.8629, doi:10.1007/BF00536201, ISSN 0178-8051, MR 0491189, S2CID 120659862 Alon, N.; Spencer, J.
Steinitz's theorem says that the polyhedral graphs formed from convex polyhedra are precisely the finite 3-connected simple planar graphs.
Thus, a trivial extension to the hypothesis for point sets in Rd is not sufficient to obtain the desired result.
It includes as a special case the Erdős–Ko–Rado theorem and can be restated in terms of uniform hypergraphs.
In other words, a game form is essentially defined like an n-player game, but with no utilities associated to the possible outcomes: it describes the procedure only, without specifying a priori the gain that each agent would get from each outcome.
The Valiant–Vazirani theorem implies that the Boolean satisfiability problem, which is NP-complete, remains a computationally hard problem even if the input instances are promised to have at most one satisfying assignment.
The function f that uses this rule to map a configuration of the cellular automaton into its successor configuration is necessarily equivariant with respect to the shift map, by the assumption that all positions use the same update rule.
The coefficients q k {\textstyle q_{k}} are up to sign the coefficients of the characteristic polynomial of Q.
The tours are not only reentrant but also symmetrical, and the verses are based on the same tour, starting from different squares.
Examples The case d = 1 {\displaystyle d=1} states that any 2 r − 1 {\displaystyle 2r-1} points on the real line can be partitioned into r {\displaystyle r} subsets with intersecting convex hulls.
History The result is named after Haim Hanani, who proved in 1934 that every drawing of the two minimal non-planar graphs K5 and K3,3 has a pair of edges with an odd number of crossings, and after W.
To reverse the process, take any sequence of (q-1) B's and p A's and search from the end to find where the number of A's first exceeds the number of B's, and then interchange the order of the parts and place a B in between.
Conversely (and substantially more difficult to prove), if Γ is a rectifiable curve, then β(Γ) < CH1(Γ).
(2009), "The strong perfect graph conjecture: 40 years of attempts, and its resolution", Discrete Mathematics, 309 (20): 6092–6113, doi:10.1016/j.disc.2009.05.024, MR 2552645.
There are infinitely many of these extended paths, each of which connects from v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} to one of its neighbors, but v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} has only finitely many neighbors.
For example n ( 1 ) = 3 {\displaystyle n(1)=3} , n ( 2 ) = 11 {\displaystyle n(2)=11} , and n ( 3 ) > 2 ↑ 7197 158386 {\displaystyle n(3)>2\uparrow ^{7197}158386} .
Vatter (2011) later extended the characterization of growth rates of permutation classes up to a specific algebraic number κ≈2.20.
Theodore Motzkin (1951) confirmed that it does by proving that t 2 ( n ) ≥ n {\displaystyle t_{2}(n)\geq {\sqrt {n}}} .
May's theorem states that simple majority voting is the unique social welfare function satisfying all three of the following conditions: Anonymity: The social choice function treats all voters the same, i.e.
If the label of the node is not +, apply ψ α {\displaystyle \psi _{\alpha }} , where α {\displaystyle \alpha } is the label of the node, and ψ {\displaystyle \psi } is Buchholz's function.
S preserves the level structure of T; all nodes on a common level of S must be on a common level in T.
It may be given the structure of a topological space according to the Cantor topology, in which the fundamental open sets are the sets of configurations that match any single pattern and the open sets are arbitrary unions of fundamental open sets.
Kawarabayashi & Mohar (2007) and Lovász (2006) are surveys accessible to nonspecialists, describing the theorem and its consequences.
Because of the limitation of computation resources, as explained above, the tree is limited to a look-ahead of 4 moves.
If | S | {\displaystyle |S|} is neither too small nor too large, then noting that A := V i ( T ) ∖ ⋃ z ∈ S F z ( T ) {\displaystyle A:=V_{i}(T)\setminus \bigcup _{z\in S}F_{z}(T)} is a large set of unused vertices, we can use the main lemma and union-bound the failure probability.
It is sometimes also attributed to Đuro Kurepa who proved it under the additional assumption of the generalised continuum hypothesis, and hence the result is sometimes also referred to as the Erdős–Rado–Kurepa theorem.
Pósa's theorem, in graph theory, is a sufficient condition for the existence of a Hamiltonian cycle based on the degrees of the vertices in an undirected graph.
There exist at least n 2 / K {\displaystyle n^{2}/K} lines, each of which contains at least two of the points.
They provide such a characterization, in terms of the Ferrers diagrams of the corresponding partitions, and show that it is equivalent to the Erdős–Gallai theorem.
{\displaystyle \lim _{V_{in}\rightarrow \infty }(I_{in})=\min _{X_{C}}\sum _{(a,b)\in X_{C}}w_{ab}.} Proof Claim 1 Current at any resistive element in the electrical network in either direction is always less than or equal to the maximum flow at the corresponding edge in the graph.
To prove the existence of a partition into a small number of antichains for an arbitrary finite partially ordered set, consider for every element x the chains that have x as their largest element, and let N(x) denote the size of the largest of these x-maximal chains.
{\displaystyle \lfloor n^{2}/4\rfloor .} In other words, one must delete slightly over half of the edges in K n {\displaystyle K_{n}} to obtain a triangle-free graph.
The theorem was first published by Kenneth May in 1952.[1] Various modifications have been suggested by others since the original publication.
Bertrand's and André's proofs Bertrand expressed the solution as 2 m − μ μ {\displaystyle {\frac {2m-\mu }{\mu }}} where μ = p + q {\displaystyle \mu =p+q} is the total number of voters and m = p {\displaystyle m=p} is the number of voters for the first candidate.
The condition on the number of vertices can be omitted from this result when the degree is odd, because in that case (by the handshaking lemma) the number of vertices is always even.
The name "master theorem" was popularized by the widely used algorithms textbook Introduction to Algorithms by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein.
In the case where the trees above are taken to be unlabeled (that is, in the case where X {\displaystyle X} has size one), Friedman found that the result was unprovable in ATR0, thus giving the first example of a predicative result with a provably impredicative proof.
Carlitz, An Application of MacMahon's Master Theorem, SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics 26 (1974), 431–436.
Szőkefalvi-Nagy's proof had an incorrect case, which was pointed out in a 1995 survey of the problem by Branko Grünbaum; however, the proofs by Grünbaum and Godfried Toussaint are similarly incomplete.
Then the size of the minimum edge cut for x and y (the minimum number of edges whose removal disconnects x and y) is equal to the maximum number of pairwise edge-disjoint paths from x to y.
Due to symmetry, the corresponding estimate also holds for d ( w i ) {\displaystyle d(w_{i})} instead of d ( v i ) {\displaystyle d(v_{i})} .
More generally, it asserts that the morphisms between any two shift spaces (that is, continuous mappings that commute with the shift) are exactly those mappings which can be defined uniformly by a local rule.
Xu and Zhou proved that |AA| = Ω(|A|2 log1−2log(2)−o(1)(|A|)) for any dense subset A of an arithmetic progression in integers, which is sharp up to the o(1) in the exponent.
In this context, a ordinal (ranked) social choice function is a function F : { A , B , 0 } N → { A , B , 0 } {\displaystyle F:\{A,B,0\}^{N}\to \{A,B,0\}} which aggregates individuals' preferences into a single preference.
In the mathematical discipline of graph theory, the 2-factor theorem, discovered by Julius Petersen, is one of the earliest works in graph theory.
A simpler version of the formula replaces H′(w) with H(w)(1 − φ′(w)/φ(w)) to get [ z n ] H ( g ( z ) ) = [ w n ] H ( w ) ϕ ( w ) n − 1 ( ϕ ( w ) − w ϕ ′ ( w ) ) , {\displaystyle [z^{n}]H(g(z))=[w^{n}]H(w)\phi (w)^{n-1}(\phi (w)-w\phi '(w)),} which involves φ′(w) instead of H′(w).
The input graph is considered to be represented in a separate read-only memory and does not contribute to this auxiliary space bound.
In this case the matching eliminates the odd degree at each vertex, leaving a subgraph of even degree, and the remaining condition is again that the sum of the cycle lengths equals the number of edges to be covered.
Decisiveness: if the vote is tied, adding a single voter (who expresses an opinion) will break the tie.
Using an approach similar to the one he used for the case k = 3, Roth gave a second proof for k = 4 in 1972.
"Commentary on "Longest increasing subsequences: From patience sorting to the Baik–Deift–Johansson theorem" by David Aldous and Persi Diaconis".
For uncountable regular cardinals κ {\displaystyle \kappa } (and some other cardinals) this can be strengthened to κ → ( κ , ω + 1 ) 2 {\displaystyle \kappa \rightarrow (\kappa ,\omega +1)^{2}} ; however, it is consistent that this strengthening does not hold for the cardinality of the continuum.
Shearer's inequality or also Shearer's lemma, in mathematics, is an inequality in information theory relating the entropy of a set of variables to the entropies of a collection of subsets.
In mathematics, particularly, in asymptotic convex geometry, Milman's reverse Brunn–Minkowski inequality is a result due to Vitali Milman that provides a reverse inequality to the famous Brunn–Minkowski inequality for convex bodies in n-dimensional Euclidean space Rn.
{\displaystyle \sum _{i=1}^{n}b_{i}^{2}=1.} This last condition is required by the Riesz–Fischer theorem which states that a i b i + ⋯ + a n b n {\displaystyle a_{i}b_{i}+\cdots +a_{n}b_{n}} will converge if and only if ∑ i = 1 n b i 2 {\displaystyle \sum _{i=1}^{n}b_{i}^{2}} is finite.
It is closely related to Myers' theorem, and is the key point in the proof of Gromov's compactness theorem.
Statement Let m and M be the lower and upper bounds, respectively, for a set of real numbers a1, ..., an , with a particular probability distribution.
Yet another generalization involves weighted Poincaré inequalities where the Lebesgue measure is replaced by a weighted version.
equal to 0, ‖ u ‖ L ∞ ( Ω ) ≤ C ‖ u ‖ H 1 ( Ω ) ( 1 + ( log ⁡ ( 1 + ‖ Δ u ‖ L 2 ( Ω ) ‖ u ‖ H 1 ( Ω ) ) ) 1 / 2 ) .
Finally, by another change of variables, the last expression equals ∫ 0 1 ( ∫ 0 ∞ f ( x ) p d x ) 1 / p s − 1 / p d s = p p − 1 ( ∫ 0 ∞ f ( x ) p d x ) 1 / p .
{\displaystyle s(x)=\mathop {\mathrm {ess\,sup} } _{y\in \mathbb {R} ^{n}}f\left({\frac {x-y}{1-\lambda }}\right)^{1-\lambda }g\left({\frac {y}{\lambda }}\right)^{\lambda }.} Then s is measurable and ‖ s ‖ 1 ≥ ‖ f ‖ 1 1 − λ ‖ g ‖ 1 λ .
Denoting the L 2 {\displaystyle L^{2}} Sobolev spaces by H k = W k , 2 {\displaystyle H^{k}=W^{k,2}} , and given real numbers 1 ≤ k < ℓ < m {\textstyle 1\leq k<\ell <m} and a function u ∈ H m {\displaystyle u\in H^{m}} , we have ‖ u ‖ H ℓ ≤ ‖ u ‖ H k m − ℓ m − k ‖ u ‖ H m ℓ − k m − k .
Application to line bundles Let p : L → R n {\displaystyle p:L\to \mathbb {R} ^{n}} be a U(1) line bundle, and let A {\displaystyle A} be a connection 1-form for L {\displaystyle L} .
Then for any compact set K in U, there exist positive constants α and C such that, for all x in K dist ⁡ ( x , Z ) α ≤ C | f ( x ) | .
The theorem was proved in a special case in 1934 by Pál Turán and generalized in 1956 and 1964 by Jonas Kubilius.
The system is called invariant under spin flipping if, for any j {\displaystyle j} in Λ {\displaystyle \Lambda } , the measure μ {\displaystyle \mu } is preserved under the sign flipping map σ → τ {\displaystyle \sigma \to \tau } , where τ k = { σ k , k ≠ j , − σ k , k = j .
For n > 2t ≥ 2, let the sequence B0, B1, ..., Bn-2t-1 be defined as B 0 = 2 , B i = min 0 ≤ j < i { B j + A ( n + t + i − j − 1 , 2 t + 2 , t + i ) } {\displaystyle B_{0}=2,\quad B_{i}=\min _{0\leq j<i}\{B_{j}+A(n{+}t{+}i{-}j{-}1,2t{+}2,t{+}i)\}} for i > 0 {\displaystyle i>0} .
Then, for m = 1 {\displaystyle m=1} , the expression inside the supremum in the Chapman–Robbins bound converges to the Cramér–Rao bound of g ^ {\displaystyle {\hat {g}}} when θ ′ → θ {\displaystyle \theta '\to \theta } , assuming the regularity conditions of the Cramér–Rao bound hold.
For example, for x ≥ 0 {\textstyle x\geq 0} one set of sufficient conditions from Mulholland is ϕ ( x ) {\textstyle \phi (x)} is continuous and strictly increasing with ϕ ( 0 ) = 0.
In mathematics, Nesbitt's inequality, named after Alfred Nesbitt, states that for positive real numbers a, b and c, a b + c + b a + c + c a + b ≥ 3 2 , {\displaystyle {\frac {a}{b+c}}+{\frac {b}{a+c}}+{\frac {c}{a+b}}\geq {\frac {3}{2}},} with equality only when a = b = c {\displaystyle a=b=c} (i.
In mathematics, the Gaussian isoperimetric inequality, proved by Boris Tsirelson and Vladimir Sudakov, and later independently by Christer Borell, states that among all sets of given Gaussian measure in the n-dimensional Euclidean space, half-spaces have the minimal Gaussian boundary measure.
This may be taken as a hint that they are not as tight as possible in principle, as can indeed be seen from competing bounds that are sometimes better.
Suppose f is an additive complex-valued arithmetic function, and write p for an arbitrary prime and ν for an arbitrary positive integer.
If f is convex, then for any three points x, y, z in I, f ( x ) + f ( y ) + f ( z ) 3 + f ( x + y + z 3 ) ≥ 2 3 [ f ( x + y 2 ) + f ( y + z 2 ) + f ( z + x 2 ) ] .
Fisher's inequality is a necessary condition for the existence of a balanced incomplete block design, that is, a system of subsets that satisfy certain prescribed conditions in combinatorial mathematics.
Equality cases Since the Sobolev energy is invariant under translations, any translation of a radial function achieves equality in the Pólya–Szegő inequality.
Now the proof can be obtained by first using Fubini's theorem to interchange the order of integration.
The bound can be viewed as an alternative to the well-known Pinsker's inequality: when D K L ( P ∥ Q ) {\displaystyle D_{\mathrm {KL} }(P\parallel Q)} is large (larger than 2 for instance.), Pinsker's inequality is vacuous, while Bretagnolle–Huber remains bounded and hence non-vacuous.
{\displaystyle \pi ^{2}(R-r)^{2}\leq L^{2}-4\pi A.} The term L 2 − 4 π A {\displaystyle L^{2}-4\pi A} in the right hand side is known as the isoperimetric defect.
(1933), "Eine Bemerkung über ungerade schlichte Funktionen", Journal of the London Mathematical Society, 8 (2): 85–89, doi:10.1112/jlms/s1-8.2.85
In mathematics, Jordan's inequality, named after Camille Jordan, states that 2 π x ≤ sin ⁡ ( x ) ≤ x for x ∈ [ 0 , π 2 ] .
Let a > 0 {\displaystyle a>0} and let f {\displaystyle f} be a given function having a third derivative on the range ( 0 , 2 a ) {\displaystyle (0,2a)} , and such that f ‴ ( x ) ≥ 0 {\displaystyle f'''(x)\geq 0} for all x ∈ ( 0 , 2 a ) {\displaystyle x\in (0,2a)} .
{\displaystyle \exp {\Big (}-t(1+\delta )\mu +(e^{t}-1)\mu {\Big )}={\frac {\exp((1+\delta -1)\mu )}{(1+\delta )^{(1+\delta )\mu }}}=\left[{\frac {e^{\delta }}{(1+\delta )^{(1+\delta )}}}\right]^{\mu }.} This proves the result desired.
Because the rank of G {\displaystyle G} is at most n {\displaystyle n} , and it is a positive semidefinite matrix, G {\displaystyle G} has at most n {\displaystyle n} positive eigenvalues with its remaining eigenvalues all equal to zero.
The Pólya–Szegő inequality states that if moreover u ∈ W 1 , p ( R n ) , {\displaystyle u\in W^{1,p}(\mathbb {R} ^{n}),} then u ∗ ∈ W 1 , p ( R n ) {\displaystyle u^{*}\in W^{1,p}(\mathbb {R} ^{n})} and ∫ R n | ∇ u ∗ | p ≤ ∫ R n | ∇ u | p .
{\displaystyle \pi _{j}:x=(x_{1},\dots ,x_{d})\mapsto {\hat {x}}_{j}=(x_{1},\dots ,x_{j-1},x_{j+1},\dots ,x_{d}).} For each 1 ≤ j ≤ d, let g j : R d − 1 → [ 0 , + ∞ ) , {\displaystyle g_{j}:\mathbb {R} ^{d-1}\to [0,+\infty ),} g j ∈ L d − 1 ( R d − 1 ) .
Every word of length ℓ ⩽ ℓ n {\displaystyle \ell \leqslant \ell _{n}} over an r {\displaystyle r} -ary alphabet corresponds to a node in this tree at depth ℓ {\displaystyle \ell } .
References Jacques Hadamard, "Étude sur les propriétés des fonctions entières et en particulier d'une fonction considérée par Riemann", Journal de Mathématiques Pures et Appliquées, volume 58, 1893, pages 171–215.
Sharp constant In case p , q > 1 , {\displaystyle p,q>1,} Young's inequality can be strengthened to a sharp form, via ‖ f ∗ g ‖ r ≤ c p , q ‖ f ‖ p ‖ g ‖ q .
If ‖ M i ‖ ≤ γ {\displaystyle \lVert M_{i}\rVert \leq \gamma } holds almost surely for all i ∈ { 1 , … , t } {\displaystyle i\in \{1,\ldots ,t\}} , then for every ε > 0 Pr ( ‖ 1 t ∑ i = 1 t M i ‖ > ε ) ≤ ( d 1 + d 2 ) exp ⁡ ( − 3 ε 2 t 8 γ 2 ) .
{\displaystyle \left|\operatorname {Tr} (A)^{2}-4\right|+\left|\operatorname {Tr} \left(ABA^{-1}B^{-1}\right)-2\right|\geq 1.\,} The inequality gives a quantitative estimate of the discreteness of the group: many of the standard corollaries bound elements of the group away from the identity.
If an analytic form of the CDF is available this provides a concentration equality that provides the exact probability of concentration.
Alternative form of the inequality The entropy power inequality can be rewritten in an equivalent form that does not explicitly depend on the definition of entropy power (see Costa and Cover reference below).
However, this issue can be resolved and one can obtain a tighter probability bound with the following general form of Azuma's inequality.
Then for all convex sets E , F ⊂ R n {\displaystyle E,F\subset \mathbb {R} ^{n}} that are symmetric about the origin, μ ( E ∩ F ) ≥ μ ( E ) ⋅ μ ( F ) .
This asymmetric error pattern, where errors only occur in one direction (1→0 but never 0→1), makes Z-channels particularly relevant for modeling storage technologies with intrinsic recording asymmetries.
The constant appearing on the right hand side is the Hermite constant γ 2 {\displaystyle \gamma _{2}} in dimension 2, so that Loewner's torus inequality can be rewritten as sys 2 ≤ γ 2 area ⁡ ( T 2 ) .
This form of Pinsker's inequality shows that "convergence in divergence" is a stronger notion than "convergence in variation distance".
{\displaystyle 1-2\Phi \leq \lambda _{2}\leq 1-{\frac {\Phi ^{2}}{2}}.} See also Stochastic matrix Cheeger constant Conductance == References ==
Proof via the orthogonal projection The special case of v = 0 {\displaystyle \mathbf {v} =\mathbf {0} } was proven above so it is henceforth assumed that v ≠ 0 .
In mathematics, the Weierstrass product inequality states that for any real numbers 0 ≤ x1, ..., xn ≤ 1 we have ( 1 − x 1 ) ( 1 − x 2 ) ( 1 − x 3 ) ( 1 − x 4 ) .
In (linear) elasticity theory, the symmetric part of the gradient is a measure of the strain that an elastic body experiences when it is deformed by a given vector-valued function.
Alternative version Note that the expression of Pinsker inequality depends on what basis of logarithm is used in the definition of KL-divergence.
If f {\displaystyle f} is continuous in Ω {\displaystyle \Omega } then Δ | f | ≥ Re ⁡ ( ( sgn ⁡ f ¯ ) Δ f ) {\displaystyle \Delta |f|\geq \operatorname {Re} \left((\operatorname {sgn} {\overline {f}})\Delta f\right)\quad } in D ′ ( { f ≠ 0 } ) {\displaystyle \;{\mathcal {D}}'(\{f\neq 0\})} .
In mathematical analysis, Trudinger's theorem or the Trudinger inequality (also sometimes called the Moser–Trudinger inequality) is a result of functional analysis on Sobolev spaces.
{\displaystyle Q(A\times B)=\sum _{x\in A,y\in B}Q(x,y).} Define the constant Φ {\displaystyle \Phi } as Φ = min S ⊂ X , π ( S ) ≤ 1 2 Q ( S × S c ) π ( S ) .
Equality holds if and only if the right-hand side is also zero, which is the case when γixi = 0 for all i = 1, .
Extensions to higher-order moments Winkler in 1866 extended Gauss's inequality to rth moments where r > 0 and the distribution is unimodal with a mode of zero.
(1936), "Uniformly convex spaces", Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, 40 (3): 396–414, doi:10.2307/1989630, JSTOR 1989630, MR 1501880.
For a matroid M and its rank function ρ, Ingleton's inequality states that for any subsets X1, X2, X3 and X4 in the support of M, the inequality ρ(X1) + ρ(X2) + ρ(X1∪X2∪X3) + ρ(X1∪X2∪X4) + ρ(X3∪X4) ≤ ρ(X1∪X2) + ρ(X1∪X3) + ρ(X1∪X4) + ρ(X2∪X3) + ρ(X2∪X4) is satisfied.
More specifically, it can be shown that with the definition α Q := min x ∈ X : Q ( x ) > 0 Q ( x ) {\displaystyle \alpha _{Q}:=\min _{x\in X:Q(x)>0}Q(x)} we have for any measure P {\displaystyle P} which is absolutely continuous to Q {\displaystyle Q} 1 2 D K L ( P ∥ Q ) ≤ 1 α Q δ ( P , Q ) 2 .
{\displaystyle \log(r).} Moreover, if f ( z ) {\displaystyle f(z)} is not of the form c z λ {\displaystyle cz^{\lambda }} for some constants λ {\displaystyle \lambda } and c {\displaystyle c} , then log ⁡ M ( r ) {\displaystyle \log M(r)} is strictly convex as a function of log ⁡ ( r ) .
Lower bounds Some historical data on best known lower bounds of K G R ( d ) {\displaystyle K_{G}^{\mathbb {R} }(d)} is summarized in the following table.
{\displaystyle \|{\mathcal {F}}\|_{q,p}=\left(p^{1/p}/q^{1/q}\right)^{n/2}.} Thus we have the Babenko–Beckner inequality that ‖ F f ‖ q ≤ ( p 1 / p / q 1 / q ) n / 2 ‖ f ‖ p .
{\displaystyle c_{p,q}<1.} When this optimal constant is achieved, the function f {\displaystyle f} and g {\displaystyle g} are multidimensional Gaussian functions.
Given a simply connected domain D in the plane with area A, ρ {\displaystyle \rho } the radius of its greatest inscribed circle, the torsional rigidity P of D is defined by P = 4 sup f ( ∬ D f d x d y ) 2 ∬ D f x 2 + f y 2 d x d y .
Convexity and monotonicity of the trace function Let f : R → R {\displaystyle f:\mathbb {R} \rightarrow \mathbb {R} } be continuous, and let n be any integer.
Suppose that v , u 1 , … , u n ∈ V {\displaystyle v,u_{1},\dots ,u_{n}\in V} and that ‖ v ‖ = 1 {\displaystyle \|v\|=1} .
Put in words, the information entropy of a distribution P {\displaystyle P} is less than or equal to its cross entropy with any other distribution Q {\displaystyle Q} .
Statement Let X be any real-valued random variable such that a ≤ X ≤ b {\displaystyle a\leq X\leq b} almost surely, i.e.
The best known bound on c n {\displaystyle c_{n}} is c n ≤ 2 n 3 / 2 {\displaystyle c_{n}\leq 2n^{3/2}} and c n ≥ n − 1 {\displaystyle c_{n}\geq n-1} .
There are various methods to prove the inequalities, including mathematical induction, the Cauchy–Schwarz inequality, Lagrange multipliers, and Jensen's inequality.
In the special case that the hermitian metric satisfies the Kähler condition, this says that ⁠1/k!⁠ωk is a calibration for the underlying Riemannian metric, and that the corresponding calibrated submanifolds are the complex submanifolds of complex dimension k.
Another generalization is a refinement obtained by interpolating between both sides of the Cauchy–Schwarz inequality: This theorem can be deduced from Hölder's inequality.
{\displaystyle p_{n}\#=\prod _{i=1}^{n}p_{i}>p_{n+1}^{2}.} Barkley Rosser showed an upper bound where n # ≤ 2.83 n {\displaystyle n\#\leq 2.83^{n}} .
Recall that the total variation between P {\displaystyle P} and Q {\displaystyle Q} is defined by d T V ( P , Q ) = sup A ∈ F { | P ( A ) − Q ( A ) | } .
If f(x) = eλx with λ ≥ 0 then E f ( a i b i + ⋯ + a n b n ) ≤ inf [ E ( e λ Z ) e λ x ] = e − x 2 / 2 {\displaystyle Ef(a_{i}b_{i}+\cdots +a_{n}b_{n})\leq \inf \left[{\frac {E(e^{\lambda Z})}{e^{\lambda x}}}\right]=e^{-x^{2}/2}} where inf is the infimum.
Let u ∈ H 2 ( Ω ) ∩ H 0 1 ( Ω ) {\displaystyle u\in H^{2}(\Omega )\cap H_{0}^{1}(\Omega )} where Ω ⊂ R 3 {\displaystyle \Omega \subset \mathbb {R} ^{3}} .
It is also useful in the study of equidistributed sequences, for example in the Weyl equidistribution estimate.
If ‖ X − μ ‖ α ≥ k σ α {\displaystyle \|X-\mu \|_{\alpha }\geq k\sigma _{\alpha }} then ||X − μ||α > 0, so we may safely divide by ||X − μ||α.
The (q, p)-norm of the n-dimensional Fourier transform is defined to be ‖ F ‖ q , p = sup f ∈ L p ( R n ) ‖ F f ‖ q ‖ f ‖ p , where 1 < p ≤ 2 , and 1 p + 1 q = 1.
Statement For a contraction T acting on a Hilbert space and a polynomial p, then the norm of p(T) is bounded by the supremum of |p(z)| for z in the unit disk." Proof The inequality can be proved by considering the unitary dilation of T, for which the inequality is obvious.
Note that this set of small measure need not be contiguous; a probability distribution can have several concentrations of mass in intervals of small measure, and the entropy may still be low no matter how widely scattered those intervals are.
The value | ⟨ x , e k ⟩ | 2 {\displaystyle |\langle x,e_{k}\rangle |^{2}} represents the energy contribution along a specific direction e k {\displaystyle e_{k}} , and the inequality guarantees that the sum of these contributions cannot exceed the total energy of x {\displaystyle x} .
While Brascamp–Lieb is an upper-bound, the Cramér–Rao bound lower-bounds the variance of var p ⁡ ( S ( x ) ) {\displaystyle \operatorname {var} _{p}(S(x))} .
A curve of constant width is the boundary of a convex set with the property that, for every direction of parallel lines, the two tangent lines with that direction that are tangent to opposite sides of the curve are at a distance equal to the width.
By the greatest lower bound property of infimum, sup z ∈ Z g ( z ) ≤ inf w ∈ W h ( w ) {\displaystyle \sup _{z\in Z}g(z)\leq \inf _{w\in W}h(w)} .
Let vol(M) denote the Riemannian volume of M and let cm denote the volume of the standard m-dimensional sphere of radius one.
A variety of closely related results are today known as Wirtinger's inequality, all of which can be viewed as certain forms of the Poincaré inequality.
{\displaystyle \Pr {\Bigl (}\max _{1\leq k\leq n}|S_{k}|\geq 3\alpha {\Bigr )}\leq 3\max _{1\leq k\leq n}\Pr {\bigl (}|S_{k}|\geq \alpha {\bigr )}.} Remark Suppose that the random variables Xk have common expected value zero.
Its permanent is defined as per ⁡ ( A ) = ∑ σ ∈ S n ∏ i = 1 n a i , σ ( i ) , {\displaystyle \operatorname {per} (A)=\sum _{\sigma \in S_{n}}\prod _{i=1}^{n}a_{i,\sigma (i)},} where the sum extends over all elements σ {\displaystyle \sigma } of the symmetric group.
{\displaystyle |a_{3}-\lambda a_{2}^{2}|\leq 1+2\exp(-2\lambda /(1-\lambda )).} References Fekete, M.; Szegő, G.
Statement of the inequality Let H {\displaystyle H} be a Hilbert space and let e 1 , e 2 , … {\displaystyle e_{1},e_{2},\dots } be an orthonormal sequence in H {\displaystyle H} .
{\displaystyle x_{1}<\cdots <x_{n}.} If k := σ ( n ) < n , {\displaystyle k:=\sigma (n)<n,} then there is a j ∈ { 1 , … , n − 1 } {\displaystyle j\in \{1,\dots ,n-1\}} with σ ( j ) = n .
For N = 1000 {\displaystyle N=1000} the 95% and 99% confidence intervals are approximately ±4.5141 and approximately ±10.5330 standard deviations respectively.
For the multivariate case, we define h = ∑ i = 1 m v i g ^ i {\textstyle h=\sum _{i=1}^{m}v_{i}{\hat {g}}_{i}} for any v ≠ 0 ∈ R m {\displaystyle v\neq 0\in \mathbb {R} ^{m}} .
The Mignotte bounds are abstract and general enough that they hold independent of the chosen embedding.
It is also widely used to estimate the norm of nonlinear terms in PDE theory, since it allows one to estimate a product of two terms by a sum of the same terms raised to a power and scaled.
{\displaystyle \left(\left(1+{\frac {2}{n}}\right)K_{n}\right)^{1+{\frac {n}{2}}}\left(\left(1+{\frac {n}{2}}\right)L_{1,n}\right)^{1+{\frac {2}{n}}}=1\,.} The inequality can be extended to particles with spin states by replacing the one-body density by the spin-summed one-body density.
In approximation theory, Jackson's inequality is an inequality bounding the value of function's best approximation by algebraic or trigonometric polynomials in terms of the modulus of continuity or modulus of smoothness of the function or of its derivatives.
This can occur when Xi are independent Bernoulli random variables, though they need not be identically distributed.
In mathematical analysis, Agmon's inequalities, named after Shmuel Agmon, consist of two closely related interpolation inequalities between the Lebesgue space L ∞ {\displaystyle L^{\infty }} and the Sobolev spaces H s {\displaystyle H^{s}} .
In probability theory, Popoviciu's inequality, named after Tiberiu Popoviciu, is an upper bound on the variance σ2 of any bounded probability distribution.
Tupper's self-referential formula is a formula that visually represents itself when graphed at a specific location in the (x, y) plane.
In this sense, Beckner's paper gives an optimal ("sharp") version of the Hausdorff-Young inequality.
sequences, problems of condensing point processes, “awkward” processes, selection algorithms, knapsack problems, Borel-Cantelli-type problems, the Bruss-Duerinckx theorem, and online Tiling strategies.
Informally speaking, the smoother the function is, the better it can be approximated by polynomials.
Second, calculate the Coulomb energy by integrating: 1 2 ∫ R 3 ∫ R 3 ρ ( x ) ρ ( y ) | x − y | d 3 x d 3 y .
Examples If S is a compact surface (without boundary), then the inequality is an equality by the usual Gauss–Bonnet theorem for compact manifolds.
Isoperimetric inequalities for graphs relate the size of vertex subsets to the size of their boundary, which is usually measured by the number of edges leaving the subset (edge expansion) or by the number of neighbouring vertices (vertex expansion).
Importance of inequality There are interesting connections between matroids, the entropy region and group theory.
In mathematics, the Cheeger bound is a bound of the second largest eigenvalue of the transition matrix of a finite-state, discrete-time, reversible stationary Markov chain.
History The inequality was first proved by Frigyes Riesz in 1930, and independently reproved by S.L.Sobolev in 1938.
If there is an i with γi = 0, then the corresponding xi > 0 has no effect on either side of the inequality, hence the ith term can be omitted.
The analysis of linear partial differential operators I: distribution theory and Fourier analysis, 2nd ed.
Experimental violations One of the first proposed experiments for demonstrating a violation of macroscopic realism employs superconducting quantum interference devices.
However, if ρ ≥ 1.286σ3, then the estimate sup x ∈ R | F n ( x ) − Φ ( x ) | ≤ 0.3328 ( ρ + 0.429 σ 3 ) σ 3 n , {\displaystyle \sup _{x\in \mathbb {R} }\left|F_{n}(x)-\Phi (x)\right|\leq {0.3328(\rho +0.429\sigma ^{3}) \over \sigma ^{3}{\sqrt {n}}},} is even tighter.
Statement of the theorem Let K be a convex body in n-dimensional Euclidean space Rn containing the origin in its interior.
More succinctly, ( E ⁡ | ∑ n = 1 N ε n x n | p ) 1 / p ∈ [ A p , B p ] {\displaystyle \left(\operatorname {E} \left|\sum _{n=1}^{N}\varepsilon _{n}x_{n}\right|^{p}\right)^{1/p}\in [A_{p},B_{p}]} for any sequence x {\displaystyle x} with unit ℓ 2 {\displaystyle \ell ^{2}} norm.
{\displaystyle f.} In the case of a landscape or a manifold embedded in Euclidean space, this perturbation might simply be tilting slightly, rotating the coordinate system.
Set the Mahler measure of f {\displaystyle f} to be M ( f ) = | f n | ∏ i = 1 n max { 1 , | z i | } .
The function f ( x ) = ∏ i = 1 d x i {\displaystyle f(x)=\prod _{i=1}^{d}x_{i}} is Schur-concave, when we assume all x i > 0 {\displaystyle x_{i}>0} .
{\displaystyle |\beta _{n}|^{2}\leq \exp \left(\sum _{k=1}^{n}(k|\alpha _{k}|^{2}-1/k)\right).} See also exponential formula (on exponentiation of power series).
Partial results The 2-dimensional case of the Mahler conjecture has been solved by Mahler and the 3-dimensional case by Iriyeh and Shibata.
Let A = [ a i j ] {\displaystyle A=[a_{ij}]} be a square matrix of order n {\displaystyle n} with nonnegative entries and with ∑ i = 1 n ( ∑ j = 1 n a i j ) = n {\textstyle \sum _{i=1}^{n}\left(\sum _{j=1}^{n}a_{ij}\right)=n} .
Proof Ekhad gave a short proof of this inequality in 1993, by combining the identity ( α + 2 ) n n !
Suppose that this ratio is σ {\displaystyle \sigma } , then we have that 1 = ∑ i q i = ∑ i σ p i = σ {\displaystyle 1=\sum _{i}q_{i}=\sum _{i}\sigma p_{i}=\sigma } where we use the fact that p , q {\displaystyle p,q} are probability distributions.
A stochastic matrix is a square matrix of nonnegative real entries in which the sum of the entries in each column is 1.
Fatou's lemma can be used to prove the Fatou–Lebesgue theorem and Lebesgue's dominated convergence theorem.
When bounding the event random variable deviates from its mean in only one direction (positive or negative), Cantelli's inequality gives an improvement over Chebyshev's inequality.
{\displaystyle P(x\prec z)\leqslant P(x\prec z\mid x\prec y).} The proof uses the Ahlswede–Daykin inequality.
At this point we can say that the Bell correlation starts existing, but it was produced by a purely local mechanism.
Let h {\displaystyle \displaystyle h} be a non-negative increasing function on the half-line [ 0 , + ∞ ) {\displaystyle [0,+\infty )} and α > 1 / 2 {\displaystyle \alpha >1/2} .
The optimal constant in the Sobolev inequality can be obtained by combining the Pólya–Szegő inequality with some integral inequalities.
x ↦ ∑ i = 1 d x i k , k ≥ 1 {\displaystyle x\mapsto \sum _{i=1}^{d}{x_{i}^{k}},k\geq 1} is Schur-convex if k ≥ 1 {\displaystyle k\geq 1} , and Schur-concave if k ∈ ( 0 , 1 ) {\displaystyle k\in (0,1)} .
{\displaystyle G(\alpha )+\int _{0}^{t}\,f(s)\,ds\in \operatorname {Dom} (G^{-1}),\qquad \forall \,t\in [0,T].} == References ==
S n {\displaystyle S_{n}} follows a Poisson binomial distribution) Then ∑ k = 0 ∞ | Pr ( S n = k ) − λ n k e − λ n k !
{\displaystyle \Pr[A_{1}\vee \cdots \vee A_{n}]\geq {\frac {\left(\sum _{i=1}^{n}\Pr[A_{i}]\right)^{2}}{\sum _{i=1}^{n}\sum _{j=1}^{n}\Pr[A_{i}\wedge A_{j}]}}.} The inequality was first derived by Kai Lai Chung and Paul Erdős (in, equation (4)).
{\displaystyle \mathrm {E} [X]=\{\mathrm {E} [V]|V{\mbox{ is a selection of }}X{\mbox{ and }}\mathrm {E} \|V\|<+\infty \}.} Note that E[X] is a subset of Rn.
Statement of the inequality Let X1, ..., Xn : Ω → R be independent random variables defined on a common probability space (Ω, F, Pr), with expected value E[Xk] = 0 and variance Var[Xk] < +∞ for k = 1, ..., n.
Then for any orthonormal vectors v1, ..., v2k there is ( ω ∧ ⋯ ∧ ω ⏟ k times ) ( v 1 , … , v 2 k ) ≤ k !
{\displaystyle b=f(a).} With f ( x ) = x p − 1 {\displaystyle f(x)=x^{p-1}} and f − 1 ( y ) = y q − 1 , {\displaystyle f^{-1}(y)=y^{q-1},} this reduces to standard version for conjugate Hölder exponents.
{\displaystyle \left|\sum _{r\neq s}{\dfrac {u_{r}{\overline {u_{s}}}}{\lambda _{r}-\lambda _{s}}}\right|\leq {\dfrac {3}{2}}\pi \sum _{r}|u_{r}|^{2}\tau _{r}^{-1}.} References Online book chapter Hilbert’s Inequality and Compensating Difficulties extracted from Steele, J.
For the random variable X, one takes the conformal factor of the given metric with respect to the flat one.
random variables with zero mean and finite variance and S n = X 1 + ⋯ + X n , {\displaystyle S_{n}=X_{1}+\cdots +X_{n},\,} then ∑ n ⩾ 1 P ( | S n | > ε n ) < ∞ {\displaystyle \sum \limits _{n\geqslant 1}P(|S_{n}|>\varepsilon n)<\infty } for every ε > 0 {\displaystyle \varepsilon >0} .
More precisely, consider a planar simple closed curve of length L {\displaystyle L} bounding a domain of area A {\displaystyle A} .
See also The Margulis lemma is a qualitative generalisation to more general spaces of negative curvature.
{\displaystyle A_{n}=\{1,2,\dots ,n\}.} Then ( ∑ i = 1 n p i x i ) ( ∑ i = 1 n p i x i ) ≤ ( a + b ) 2 4 a b ( ∑ i = 1 n p i ) 2 − ( a − b ) 2 4 a b ⋅ min { ( ∑ i ∈ X p i − ∑ j ∈ Y p j ) 2 : X ∪ Y = A n , X ∩ Y = ∅ } .
The Golden–Thompson inequality shows that, even though e A + B {\displaystyle e^{A+B}} and e A e B {\displaystyle e^{A}e^{B}} are not equal, they are still related by an inequality.
It states that if A is the infinitesimal generator of a one-parameter contraction semigroup then ‖ A f ‖ 2 ≤ 4 ‖ f ‖ ‖ A 2 f ‖ .
This can also be formulated in terms of conditional probabilities: if you're informed that your last dart hit the rectangle, then this information will increase your estimate of the probability that the dart hit the circle.
{\displaystyle \Pr(X\geq 0)\geq {\frac {2{\sqrt {3}}-3}{\mathbb {E} [X^{4}]}}.} This improves over Cantelli's inequality in that we can get a non-zero lower bound, even when E [ X ] = 0 {\displaystyle \mathbb {E} [X]=0} .
Note that for p = 2 {\displaystyle p=2} the inequalities become equalities which are both the parallelogram rule.
Meanwhile, in the quaternionic case, the symmetric metric on H P 2 {\displaystyle \mathbb {HP} ^{2}} is not its systolically optimal metric.
This inequality follows by applying the usual Paley-Zygmund inequality to the conditional distribution of Z given that it is positive and noting that the various factors of P ⁡ ( Z > 0 ) {\displaystyle \operatorname {P} (Z>0)} cancel.
All that was for complete correlation between times t 1 {\displaystyle t_{1}} and t 3 {\displaystyle t_{3}} .
Generalizations In the context of metric measure spaces, the definition of a Poincaré inequality is slightly different.
{\displaystyle |E|\geq \prod _{j=1}^{d}{\frac {|E|}{|\pi _{j}(E)|}}.} The quantity | E | | π j ( E ) | {\displaystyle {\frac {|E|}{|\pi _{j}(E)|}}} can be thought of as the average width of E {\displaystyle E} in the j {\displaystyle j} th coordinate direction.
The first question, corresponding to the term H b ( e ) {\displaystyle H_{b}(e)} , relates to the uncertainty of the predictor.
Gibbs' inequality states that the Kullback–Leibler divergence is non-negative, and equal to zero precisely if its arguments are equal.
In mathematics, especially functional analysis, Bessel's inequality is a statement about the coefficients of an element x {\displaystyle x} in a Hilbert space with respect to an orthonormal sequence.
External links Gauss–Bonnet theorem, in the Encyclopedia of Mathematics, including a brief account of Cohn-Vossen's inequality
{\displaystyle {\frac {||F(t)||_{L_{x}^{2}}^{2}}{2}}+{\frac {||\mathbf {D} \phi (t)||_{L_{x}^{2}}^{2}}{2}}.} The diamagnetic inequality guarantees that the energy is minimized in the absence of electromagnetism, thus A = 0 {\displaystyle A=0} .
It places a bound on the Lp norm of a function using Lp bounds on the weak derivatives of the function and the geometry of the domain, and can be used to show that certain norms on Sobolev spaces are equivalent.
Finally, in 1975, using Hermite functions as eigenfunctions of the Fourier transform, Beckner proved that the value of this norm for all q ≥ 2 {\displaystyle q\geq 2} is ‖ F ‖ q , p = ( p 1 / p / q 1 / q ) n / 2 .
The Akhiezer–Krein–Favard theorem gives the sharp value of C ( r ) {\displaystyle C(r)} (called the Akhiezer–Krein–Favard constant): C ( r ) = 4 π ∑ k = 0 ∞ [ ( − 1 ) k 2 k + 1 ] r + 1 .
{\displaystyle \|{\mathcal {F}}\|_{q,p}=\sup _{f\in L^{p}(\mathbb {R} ^{n})}{\frac {\|{\mathcal {F}}f\|_{q}}{\|f\|_{p}}},{\text{ where }}1<p\leq 2,{\text{ and }}{\frac {1}{p}}+{\frac {1}{q}}=1.} In 1961, Babenko found this norm for even integer values of q.
Thus, σ 2 = E [ A 2 ] − μ 2 ≤ − m M + ( m + M ) μ − μ 2 = ( M − μ ) ( μ − m ) {\displaystyle \sigma ^{2}=\mathbb {E} [A^{2}]-\mu ^{2}\leq -mM+(m+M)\mu -\mu ^{2}=(M-\mu )(\mu -m)} .
Let A be a set of probability distributions over an alphabet X, and let q be an arbitrary distribution over X (where q may or may not be in A).
Except for the case p = 2, the p-norm is not an inner product norm, because it does not satisfy the parallelogram law.
Observe that Tn is increasing on [ 1 , + ∞ ] {\displaystyle [1,+\infty ]} , hence ‖ T n ‖ ∞ = T n ( 1 + σ ) .
{\displaystyle {}_{3}F_{2}\left(-n,n+\alpha +2,{\tfrac {1}{2}}(\alpha +1);{\tfrac {1}{2}}(\alpha +3),\alpha +1;t\right)>0,\qquad 0\leq t<1,\quad \alpha >-1.} In this form, with α a non-negative integer, the inequality was used by Louis de Branges in his proof of the Bieberbach conjecture.
(1966), "A short proof of Sperner's lemma", Journal of Combinatorial Theory, 1 (2): 299, doi:10.1016/S0021-9800(66)80035-2, MR 0194348 Meshalkin, L.
In queueing theory, a discipline within the mathematical theory of probability, Ross's conjecture gives a lower bound for the average waiting-time experienced by a customer when arrivals to the queue do not follow the simplest model for random arrivals.
Suppose a1, a2, ..., an are non-negative real numbers and let e k {\displaystyle e_{k}} denote the kth elementary symmetric polynomial in a1, a2, ..., an.
In plane geometry the Blaschke–Lebesgue theorem states that the Reuleaux triangle has the least area of all curves of given constant width.
In mathematics and information theory, Sanov's theorem gives a bound on the probability of observing an atypical sequence of samples from a given probability distribution.
Inequalities for surfaces and polyhedra Stronger results are available for surfaces, where the asymptotics when the genus tends to infinity are by now well understood, see systoles of surfaces.
Similarly, if p > n ≥ 2 {\displaystyle p>n\geq 2} , then one has for every f ∈ C c ∞ ( R n ) {\displaystyle f\in C_{c}^{\infty }(\mathbb {R} ^{n})} ( 1 − n p ) p ∫ R n | f ( x ) − f ( 0 ) | p | x | p d x ≤ ∫ R n | ∇ f | p .
Similar statements hold more generally, including when the set underlying X {\displaystyle X} is not necessarily finite or countable (though it must be bounded and totally ordered).
The inequality is applied to probability spaces with a product structure, such as in percolation problems.
If equality holds, then according to the k = 1 equality case, it must be the case that ω(e2i − 1, e2i) = ±1 for each i.
Beginning with triangle ABC, an isosceles triangle is constructed with one side taken as BC and the other equal leg BD along the extension of side AB.
Usage in text markup Angle brackets The greater-than sign is sometimes used for an approximation of the closing angle bracket, ⟩.
Similarly, when t < 0 {\displaystyle t<0} , ( y − z ) [ z t ( x − z ) − y t ( x − y ) ] + x t ( x − y ) ( x − z ) ≥ 0 {\displaystyle (y-z){\bigl [}z^{t}(x-z)-y^{t}(x-y){\bigr ]}+x^{t}(x-y)(x-z)\geq 0} This is also clearly true because the left-hand side consists of every term being non-negative.
Bakry and Ledoux gave another proof of Bobkov's functional inequality based on the semigroup techniques which works in a much more abstract setting.
Mark Fannes is a Belgian physicist specialised in mathematical quantum mechanics, and he works at the KU Leuven.
{\displaystyle p^{4}\operatorname {cr} (G)\geq p^{2}e-3pn.} Now if we set p = 4n/e < 1 (since we assumed that e > 4n), we obtain after some algebra cr ⁡ ( G ) ≥ e 3 64 n 2 .
Formulation of the inequality The conventional formulation of the Bogomolov–Miyaoka–Yau inequality is as follows.
Given that experimental tests of Bell's inequalities have ruled out local realism in quantum mechanics, the violation of Leggett's inequalities is considered to have falsified realism in quantum mechanics.
We can conclude that 1 + x / r ≥ ( 1 + x ) 1 r {\displaystyle 1+x/r\geq (1+x)^{\frac {1}{r}}} for r ≥ 1 {\displaystyle r\geq 1} , therefore ( 1 + x ) l ≤ 1 + l x {\displaystyle (1+x)^{l}\leq 1+lx} for 0 < l = 1 / r ≤ 1 {\displaystyle 0<l=1/r\leq 1} .
For each p ≥ 1 {\textstyle p\geq 1} , let ‖ A ‖ p p := tr ⁡ ( A A ∗ ) p / 2 {\textstyle \|A\|_{p}^{p}:=\operatorname {tr} (AA^{*})^{p/2}} be the Schatten norm.
Kuperberg (2008) proved that, more concretely, one can take c = 1 2 {\displaystyle c={\tfrac {1}{2}}} in this bound.
This general form of Azuma's inequality applied to the Doob martingale gives McDiarmid's inequality which is common in the analysis of randomized algorithms.
{\displaystyle M(n,t)\leq {\frac {2^{n+1}}{\sum _{j=0}^{t}{\left({\binom {\lfloor n/2\rfloor }{j}}+{\binom {\lceil n/2\rceil }{j}}\right)}}}.} The constant-weight code bound.
Bonse, relates the size of a primorial to the smallest prime that does not appear in its prime factorization.
{\displaystyle f=\sum \limits _{i=0}^{n}f_{i}x^{i},\ \ \ g=\sum \limits _{i=0}^{m}g_{i}x^{i},\ \ \ h=\sum \limits _{i=0}^{k}h_{i}x^{i}.} n , m , k {\displaystyle n,m,k} are the degrees, the leading coefficients are f n , g m , h k {\displaystyle f_{n},g_{m},h_{k}} .
In mathematics, the Bogomolov–Miyaoka–Yau inequality is the inequality c 1 2 ≤ 3 c 2 {\displaystyle c_{1}^{2}\leq 3c_{2}} between Chern numbers of compact complex surfaces of general type.
More specifically, suppose that one wishes to solve, for f ∈ L2(Ω) the Poisson equation { − Δ u ( x ) = f ( x ) , x ∈ Ω ; u ( x ) = 0 , x ∈ ∂ Ω ; {\displaystyle {\begin{cases}-\Delta u(x)=f(x),&x\in \Omega ;\\u(x)=0,&x\in \partial \Omega ;\end{cases}}} where Ω is a bounded Lipschitz domain in Rn.
Hoeffding's inequality only assumes the summands are bounded almost surely, while Bennett's inequality offers some improvement when the variances of the summands are small compared to their almost sure bounds.
For the example questions with n = 100 , s = 10 {\displaystyle n=100,s=10} this yields E ( N [ 100 , 10 ] ) ≤ 2000 ≈ 44.7 {\displaystyle E(N[100,10])\leq {\sqrt {2000}}\approx 44.7} .
By contrast, Sambusetti's obstruction only applies to 4-manifolds with infinite fundamental group, but the volume-entropy estimate he uses to prove non-existence only depends on the homotopy type of the manifold.
Totten trusts can be created only with certain types of depository accounts or securities; in particular they can not be used to convey real property.
In 2019, a group of stakeholders filed a lawsuit, arguing that the 2019 no-fault law's fee schedule should not be applied retroactively.
Reinsurance One insurance company may purchase insurance from another insurance company for the purposes of risk management.
That rule provided that any future disposition of property must vest within "a life in being plus 21 years".
However, if a settlor validly transfers property to a third party, and the words used are held not to create a trust, the usual rule is that the donee takes the property absolutely.
Influencers often learn to decipher their victim's needs and desires, they will leverage them to gain a foothold in the persons' life.
Disclaimer of other interests In addition to the more typical disclaimer under wills, an individual may also be able to disclaim his interest as the beneficiary of a life insurance policy or employee benefit plans.
In all cases, the trustee may be a person or company, regardless of whether they are a prospective beneficiary.
Supreme Court defined the Massachusetts trust as a form of business organization, common in Massachusetts consisting essentially of an arrangement whereby property is conveyed to trustees: in accordance with terms of the trust.
The perpetrator then slams on the brakes causing a rear-end collision (usually with no brake lights).
By country Australia In Australia, a family trust refers to a type of discretionary trust, set up to manage the assets of a family or its business.
The survival period used varies from company to company, however, 14 days is the most typical survival period used.
A Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust (CRAT) is a Planned Giving vehicle defined in §664 of the United States Internal Revenue Code that entails a donor placing a major gift of cash or property into an irrevocable trust.
In her will Dorothy left her sons an usufruct (which is similar to a common-law life estate; the Boggs lived in Louisiana which recognizes the concept) to 2/3 of Isaac's life-estate.
This arrangement differs from a bank trustee or a corporate trustee, both of which mainly focus on legalities and accounting in the public arena.
On appeal, this judgment was confirmed unanimously by a panel of four appeal judges in Queen's Bench.
The Menlo Park Property remained in his name as an unmarried man and there was no grant deed reconveying this property to his trust.
Residuary estate - the portion of an estate remaining after the payment of expenses and the distribution of specific bequests; this passes to the residuary legatees.
These reasons, among others, may help explain why annuities offered in these two countries are not particularly popular with U.S.
For example, in Utah, a will must be "signed by the testator or in the testator's name by some other individual in the testator's conscious presence and by the testator's direction; and...
Thomson Reuters define an attestation clause as where "a document has been executed in the presence of one or more witnesses (who attest the execution)".
Under the law, only the interest and other income would be spent, while the principal would accumulate.
Normally there is no need to sue the carrier in such states as Virginia unless there is a dispute as to coverage.
The person identified in such a clause is called the residuary taker, residuary beneficiary, residuary legatee, or residuary devisee.
However, as states began enacting varying statutes to create a statutory framework for the durable powers of attorney, variations from state to state prompted support for a uniform law.
Inter vivos (Law Latin, between the living) is a legal term referring to a transfer or gift made during one's lifetime, as opposed to a testamentary transfer that takes effect on the death of the giver.
High cost In 2011, out-of-work sickness benefits had an annual cost of £13 billion: the Chancellor, George Osborne, called this "a very large budget".
In an effort to address this substantial power distinction, many states allow for the burden of proof to be shifted to the alleged influencer if certain requirements are satisfied.
Many plaintiffs' attorneys also argued that defense lawyers had many ways to establish different theories of exposure.
The insurer is given the freedom (discretion) regarding: Internal control framework used, and Nature and extent of documentation The insurer has aforementioned discretion under the Model Audit Rule to achieve internal control objectives in a cost-effective manner.
No-fault insurance is any type of insurance contract under which the insured party is indemnified by their own insurance company for losses, regardless of the source of the cause of loss.
Examples include documents containing standard terms and conditions, or references to previous contracts between the two parties, whose terms are to apply to a further transaction.
He believed "bequest" in 102(a) had been interpreted by the courts to include bequests made for consideration between the beneficiary and decedent.
A collective trust fund or collective investment trust (CIT) is a legal trust administered by a bank or trust company that combines assets for multiple investors who meet specific requirements set forth in the fund's declaration of trust.
[and the] purpose must also be that of a reasonably normal testator and cannot be capricious." In some jurisdictions, a trust for the saying of masses may be allowed.
Charitable trust: This is an irrevocable trust established for charitable purposes and, in some jurisdictions, a more specific term than "charitable organization".
Code 91-9-701 et seq.), South Dakota, Wyoming, Tennessee, Utah, Oklahoma, Colorado, Missouri, Rhode Island and New Hampshire.
17), until the end of the next session of parliament after 1 year from 13 February 1692 (25 April 1694).
People over state pension age who were claiming Incapacity Benefit before they reached this age were eligible to receive Incapacity Benefit for up to one year after they became eligible for the state pension.
It discloses a means for auto insurance risk selection whereby a driver’s mileage and driving behavior are monitored and insurance premiums are charged accordingly.
If the will provides that the beneficiary receives a percentage of the testator's estate, the court may engage in a hotchpot calculation to determine the amount, if any, that the beneficiary should receive under the will.
Participants or members are not obliged to transfer any assets to such an organization to achieve the goals of charitable activity.
See also Merger doctrine (civil procedure) Merger doctrine (family law) Merger doctrine (property law) == References ==
A caveat is not to be used to extend the time for bringing a claim for financial provision from a person's estate, such as under the Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependants) Act 1975.
Today it applies to contracts in which the duration and amount of payments by one side will vary according to uncertain events, as happens in gambling, insurance, speculative investment and life annuities.
As a component of salary Many large companies grant stock or stock options in the form of restricted stock units to employees as part of their compensation.
Simultaneous death is a problem of inheritance which occurs when two people (sometimes referred to as commorientes) die at, or very near, the same time, and at least one of them is entitled to part or all of the other's estate on their death.
Because it was common practice it was important that an authoritative decision be given as to whether such an administrative company should be treated as a trustee de son tort.
Similar reforms were also made in several Australian states and the Canadian province of British Columbia.
Shortly after that, other states followed until, by 1871, nearly every state had "some type of supervision and control over insurance companies." Often the legislation and rules promulgated by insurance commissions of one state conflicted with those of others.
Family trusts are vehicles for the protection of family assets or the employ of a tax minimisation strategy.
For income tax purposes, the income so accruing to the income beneficiary is taxable income of the beneficiary, and taxed accordingly, unless otherwise exempted.
Filing paperwork to the probate court In addition to filing the inventory, administrators must submit a wide array of paperwork to properly administer a decedent's estate.
Life tenancy investments It is becoming increasingly popular for private investors to place funds into a life tenancy investment.
Some jurisdictions will not recognize an oral contract for such a purpose, requiring instead that the contract be executed in writing and signed by both parties.
Beginning in the 1990s, vesting periods in the United States are usually 3–5 years for employees, but shorter for board members and others whose expected tenure at a company is shorter.
The purpose of the demand letters was to determine if the funds are reimbursing states for medical treatment received under Medicaid and Medicare.
10) until the next session of parliament 7 years after the start of the present session of parliament.
The probate court will then oversee the process of distributing the deceased's assets to the proper beneficiaries.
In taking an essentially religious view of these events, these Englishmen seem to the present writer to have had every justification.
In such a case, the trust is sometimes deemed to have terminated (with the result that the beneficiary owns the trust property outright).
In other words, the law of intestate succession applies only: when the testator has left no valid will or testamentary disposition contained in a valid pactum successorium (e.g., antenuptial contract, gift mortis causa); or when he leaves a will which fails for some or other reason.
The court will not usually validate non-charitable purpose trusts which fail by treating them as a power.
103 were run at no cost by TV stations only due to the fairness doctrine in place at the time, with some equal-time ads.
Although still called KC clauses, such clauses often provide that the advice of a junior barrister of a certain seniority may be taken.
Overview Collective trusts are commonly used for defined benefit plans and, when daily valuation is possible, for defined contribution plans.
John Jarndyce, by contrast, finds the whole process tiresome and tries to have as little to do with it as he possibly can, one of many examples of the character's wise and self-effacing demeanour.
A specific legacy (or specific bequest) is a testamentary gift of a precisely identifiable object, distinguished from all other things of the same kind — such as, a gift of a particular piece of jewelry.
The demanding nature of Solvency II legislation compared to current regulations has attracted criticism.
A common feature of trusts in all common law jurisdictions is that they may be run either by family members (a private trust) or by trustees appointed by the court.
In 2004, the caseload peaked at just under 2,500,000 then began to fall slowly, but caseloads never fell lower than they were in 1995.
This recognition often involves "translating" the trust's characteristics into legal concepts that do exist within the civil law country.
2007) was a Missouri court case which set out the legal test to demonstrate bad faith by an insurer.
In the United States, a rabbi trust is a type of trust used by businesses or other entities to defer the taxability to the person or entity receiving (the payee) such payments as employee compensation or purchase payments in the acquisition of another business.
In addition, captive insurers and other self-insurance arrangements such as workers compensation self-insurance programs and State workers compensation reinsurance pools are included.
The DST ownership option essentially offers the same benefits and risks that an investor would receive as a single large-scale investment property owner, but without the management responsibility.
Not only has Florida codified the slayer rule, but the Florida Statutes also contain a provision depriving a surviving person of the benefits of inheritance when convicted of abuse, neglect, exploitation, or the aggravated manslaughter of an elderly person or a disabled adult.
Oregon Oregon enforces no-contest clauses against losing parties even when there was probable cause to contest the will.
See also Beneficiary (trust) Beneficial ownership Birth certificate Estate planning Inheritance Legal fiction Registered owner == References ==
The largest direct-action lawsuit in history ($333 million) was the subject matter of the motion picture Erin Brockovich.
Voting trusts were made popular in Delaware corporate law, but they have since been adopted widely by other states in the United States.
The order of abatement is usually: Intestate property The residuary of the estate General Devises—i.e., cash gifts Demonstrative Devises—i.e., cash gifts from a specific account, stocks, bonds, securities, etc.
Some regulate all insurance activity taking place within the particular jurisdiction, but allow their citizens to purchase insurance "offshore".
The Illinois Supreme Court found: Even if plaintiff were to successfully build the two proposed houses in the floodway at an elevation which would not flood, defendant points out, the homes would still be surrounded by moving water during the 100-year floods.
§732.103) North Carolina (extends intestate inheritance out to five degrees of a kinship if they exist.
In the pre-classical period, a testator was required to nominate an heir in order for his will to be valid (heredis institutio).
However, in general, most trust instruments will have provisions which address the following aspects of the administration of the trust: The name of the settlement and definitions and interpretation provisions The legal nature of the trust (i.e.
The resultant gift to the heir receiving "500 shares," would be the date of death value of 500 shares of that particular stock.
For example, a testator might write in the will that "Mary will receive the house held in a trust set when she marries" or "when she has children".
Hadrian then adopted Titus Aurelius Fulvus Boionius Arrius Antoninus, on condition that Antoninus in turn adopt both the natural son of the late Lucius Aelius and a promising young nephew of his wife.
Freeing slaves Another existing use of the fideicommissum is described in G 2.263-266: libertas quoque servo per fideicommissum dari potest if the heres or legatarius is requested to perform the manumissio to become the patronus of the slave so freed.
Since 1 January 2025, private school fees have been subject to the standard rate of VAT (20%); this measure was brought in by the Starmer ministry.
Generally, an ancillary administration proceeding should commence in any county where the decedent's had property.
Many people are still reluctant to draft a proper will, or make bad ones which later prove invalid, or can easily be contested.
During the Principate, so called from Augustus's styling of himself as princeps (first among equals, in the manner of the princeps senatus), emperors consolidated their power by making use of the institutions of Republican Rome rather than overthrowing them outright.
This "judicial accident", as it has been called, influenced the development of state-level insurance regulation.
Nevertheless, under medieval communal society, family land could not be sold except for cause, and the family essentially had a right of first refusal (laudatio parentum) in any such sale; in some places, this restriction also applied to gifts.
However the court ruled that there would be a transitional period to enable insurance companies to comply with the ruling this lasted until the 21 December 2012.
Later registrations require the registration in public record of the trustee's name, and certain details of the trust.
This particular type of trust grew in significance over the years and became known as an Accumulation & Maintenance Trust.
Preferred parties In some states, statute requires probate courts to appoint an administrator from a selected "preferred party list." A preferred party could range from the decedent's surviving widow to a surviving cousin.
Orr was 39; he had promised his wife he would retire if he hadn't reached the Busch Series level by age 40.
Third, repeated use of a medical examiner overcomes any presumption that an insurance company's denial of a claim is a genuine dispute.
The Good Wife season 4 episode "Invitation to an Inquest" revolved around a coroner's inquest into the death of a judge.
If the employer delays in forwarding the contributions according to the legal time frame, then the employer is liable to a surcharge.
The Australia Institute has expressed concern about the "staggering" amount of tax avoided through the use of such trusts, observing Australians with taxable incomes of A$500,000 or more contribute most to the total of assets currently managed by trusts.
If exclusive, the donee can appoint all the property to one or more members of the class of permissible appointees to the exclusion of the other members of the class.
The amount passing to the Grandson upon the death of Grandma will be included in Grandma's estate for estate tax consideration.
Federal law and policy, embodied in the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-119, requires federal agencies to use these standards instead of creating "government-unique" technical standards purely to serve regulatory purposes.
An oral will (or nuncupative will) is a will that has been delivered orally (that is, in speech) to witnesses, as opposed to the usual form of wills, which is written and according to a proper format.
The 9th Circuit made it clear that California law controls the definition of this crucial phrase in disability policies.
Claims are usually successful when it can be shown that the owner/occupier was responsible for an injury, therefore they breached their duty of care.
The testamentary capacity matter is most frequently raised posthumously, when an aggrieved heir contests the will entered into probate.
A will contract is a term used in the law of wills describing a contract to exchange a current performance for a future bequest.
The pool will also be open to members of the public without insurance, those with inadequate insurance, and employers, starting with small businesses, nonprofits and municipalities.
By contrast, most other federal laws will not apply to insurance whether the states regulate in that area or not.
For example, if O conveys property "To A, but if B returns from Florida within the next year, to B"; here, B has a shifting executory interest, and A has a fee simple subject to this shifting executory interest.
That’s because insurance companies can refuse to pay doctors and hospitals for treating patients found to have alcohol in their bodies.
Removal and investigations In November, a federal judge, Cameron McGowan Currie, heard Comey's and James's challenges to the legality of Halligan's appointment.
The final text of the Uniform Trust Code (UTC) was approved by the ULC commissioners in August 2000.
Unlike a general power of appointment, the refusal of the appointed party to exercise a specific power of appointment causes the designated property to revert as a gift to the members of a group or a class.
For example: In fire insurance, an adjustment clause provides that in the event of loss or damage at any location mentioned in the policy, the amount of insurance in force at that location shall be prorated to the burned and unburned portions of the property.
However, if the primary beneficiary or beneficiaries are not alive or do not qualify under any conditions, the assets will probably pass to the contingent beneficiaries.
Essentially, this document is issued to the person who will administer the estate of someone who dies without a will.
The testator devises a general type of property, and then changes the specific items of property within that category.
A child may also be denied the right to take under the will as a pretermitted heir if the child received an advancement against their inheritance - an inter vivos gift from the testator of an amount equivalent to what child might have otherwise received under the will.
"Graded vesting" or called retable vesting (vesting after each year until the employee is fully vested) may be "uniform" (e.g., 20% of the compensation vested each year for five years) or "non-uniform" (e.g., 20%, 30%, and 50% of the compensation vested each year for the next three years).
Under the law in England and Wales oral wills are permitted to military personnel and merchant seamen on duty (see law report below) and it is common practice in Commonwealth countries.
In June 2010, however, the verdict against Transamerica was overturned on appeal In June 2010, Progressive Auto Insurance filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Liberty Mutual over one of Progressive’s Pay As You Drive auto insurance patents.
Ultimus haeres (Latin for ultimate heir) is a concept in Scots law where if a person in Scotland who dies without leaving a will (i.e.
It is permissible in most legal systems for a trust to have a fixed number of beneficiaries and for the trustees to have discretion as to how much each beneficiary receives, or to have a class of beneficiaries from whom they could select members, but provide that the amount to be provided is fixed.
The disinherison must be made expressly and for one of eight just causes; otherwise, it is null (LCC art.
The doctrine of exoneration of liens (sometimes simply referred to as "doctrine of exoneration") refers to a common law rule.
The criminals, in a car in front of the victim, slam on the brakes for no obvious reason, and the victim has no time to react and collides with the car in front.
Trust instruments are generally only used in relation to an inter vivos trust; testamentary trusts are usually created under a will.
The full brothers and sisters of the deceased consequently take a share in both halves of the estate, while the half-brothers and -sisters take a share in one half only of the estate.
In this structure, the grantor remains responsible for paying the income taxes generated by the trust's assets, even though those assets are outside the grantor's estate for transfer tax purposes.
The prudent man rule is based on common law stemming from the 1830 Massachusetts court formulation Harvard College v.
If it is not foreseen by the constitutive contract, the property assets cannot be alienated by either the trustee or the beneficiary.
The abbey of Cluny and its hundreds of daughter houses were central to this: the Cluniac order emphasised an elaborate liturgy as the centre of its common life, developing an unrivalled liturgy for the dead and offering its benefits to its patrons.
In Scots law, bona vacantia relates to ownerless property alone, rather than property falling part of a deceased's estate with no living heirs.
Hospital insurance would provide federal funds to provinces that would implement a universal hospital insurance plan.
A general devise, is a monetary gift to a specific person to be satisfied out of the overall estate.
A beach bum trust provision, in the law of trusts, ties the ability of a trust beneficiary to take from the trust to the beneficiary's own earnings.
Under most statutes, such wills can only be made during a person's "last sickness," must be witnessed by at least three persons, and reduced to writing by the witnesses within a specified amount of time after the testator's death.
Background "Beach bum trust provisions" may take a variety of forms, such as by requiring a beneficiary to attain a certain job or degree, or by using the beneficiary's own income to determine how much money they can take from the trust fund at a given time.
All non-qualified deferred-compensation plans must involve substantial risk of forfeiture or other methods of avoiding constructive receipt, such as conditioning payment upon performance of future conditions or service.
Civ.App., 76 S.W.2d 180, 183) asserts that "devisee" may refer to "those who take under will without any distinction between realty and personalty ...
6) was an act of the Parliament of England that continued the Death between Verdict and Judgment Act 1665 (17 Cha.
The agent of record is authorized to represent an insured party in purchasing, servicing, and maintaining insurance coverage with a designated insurer.
Historically, the concept of a protector developed in offshore jurisdictions where settlors were (perhaps understandably) concerned about appointing a trust company in a small, distant country as sole trustee of an offshore trust which is to hold a great deal of the settlor's wealth.
In contrast, this approach has been stridently rejected by the High Court of Australia, where the doctrinal basis of subrogation is said to lie in the prevention of unconscionable results: for example, the discharge of a debtor or one party obtaining double recovery.
The "Panic Stop" is like the ‘swoop and squat’, but the offending vehicle has passengers and gets in front of the victim's vehicle while a passenger watches and waits for the victim to be distracted, so they won't be able to react quickly enough to stop.
References Robert Frank, The Wrong Way to Leave Money to Heirs, The Wealth Report, Wall Street Journal Online, May 15, 2007.
Popular culture The BBC has made twelve series (260 programmes) of Heir Hunters, shown on UK BBC TV about a number of UK companies.
Under the Coroners Act 1988, a jury is only required to be convened in cases where the death occurred in prison, police custody, or in circumstances which may affect public health or safety.
A less well known fictive example is the humorous Testamentum Porcelli, the last testament of a pig named M.
Part 1 The Insurance Act 2015 distinguishes between "consumer" and "non-consumer" insurance contracts.
Halvard placed all the property that he wanted in the trust, including the real property into an attachment to his trust document titled "Schedule A".
In trust law the term "doctrine of merger" refers to the fusing of legal and equitable title in the event the same person becomes both the sole trustee and the sole beneficiary of a trust.
The inheritance is divided equally among their closest living relatives, according to degree of kinship.
Motor vehicle insurance In the United States, a state government, usually the Department of Motor Vehicles, assigns the risky motorists to automobile insurance companies.
An honorary trust, under the law of trusts, is a device by which a person establishes a trust for which there is neither a charitable purpose, nor a private beneficiary to enforce the trust.
For example, if a testator states in the will that he has recited to a third party the intended disposition of testamentary assets, such attempt to circumvent the requirements of a written will is void.
Often there is a cliff by which the first few steps in the graph are missing, so that there is no vesting at all for a period (usually six or twelve months in the case of employee equity), after which there is a cliff date upon which a large amount of vesting occurs all at once.
Promoters of companies sometimes aggregate their shares in a voting trust to safeguard control of the company.
Fraudulent claims can be one of may be identified as "built up", meaning that they are legitimate claims that are exaggerated in their value, or they may be false claims for damages that never occurred.
In arguing for the imposition of conditions on the release of federal aid to California wildfire victims, U.S.
In 2023, the Texas-based messaging company Text-Em-All became the first SaaS company in the US to move to an EOT.
South-Eastern Underwriters Association that the federal government could regulate insurance companies under the authority of the Commerce Clause in the U.S.
This presumption could serve as an affirmative defense in petitions to establish a resulting trust implied by operation of law.
For example, suppose Joey agrees to execute a will bequeathing his house to Rachel in exchange for services provided by Rachel.
For example, Joey leaves the contents of his bank account "to my employees." If Joey then fires some of old employees and hires new ones, the new employees will inherit the contents of the bank account under this provision.
In most jurisdictions, the law of intestacy requires that the property of a person who died without leaving a will must first go to that person's immediate family, such as a spouse, descendants, ascendants, or persons descended from the same parents or grandparents.
In the BBC drama Life on Mars, in the seventh episode of the first series, an inquest is carried out into the death of a prisoner in the police station.
The analysis is significant in that it imports the conflict of laws approach in Morguard v De Savoye into the constitutional analysis from the Churchill Falls case and other extraterritorial cases.
Definitions A specific devise, is a specific gift in a will to a specific person other than an amount of money.
In the United States, however, recent court decisions have encouraged more inventors to file patent applications on methods of doing business.
See also Insurance in India Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India == References ==
In a written agreement with Boyce, Wolder agreed to render legal services "from time to time as long as both… shall live and not to bill her for such services." In exchange, Boyce promised to make a codicil to her will giving Wolder stock or securities from her estate.
Their preliminary recommendations included increasing the category of 'natural affection' to include dependent children and parents and also cohabitees.
The court found that his thoughts about her, "did and could only proceed from, and be founded in, insanity," a "partial insanity" that only extended to his thoughts about his daughter and caused him to disinherit her.
833 (1997) is available from: Cornell CourtListener Findlaw Google Scholar Justia Library of Congress Oyez (oral argument audio) DOJ link
There is no recovery from the employee and the liability of this contribution lies solely with the employer.
The Insurance Contracts Act 1984 (ICA) applies to most insurance contracts with an Australian connection and is intended to ensure that a fair balance is struck between the interests of the insurer and the insured.
Scores of persons have deliriously found themselves made parties in Jarndyce and Jarndyce without knowing how or why; whole families have inherited legendary hatreds with the suit.
Along with an exception, it allows employers to tie premiums or co-payments to tobacco use or body mass index (BMI).
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1966, which came into force on 10 March 1966.
The majority of insurance companies will not disclose information or discuss an insured party's account with an agent other than the agent of record.
He assumed in each case that each of the names had suffered a net underwriting loss for the year of £160,000.
Although many insurers will accept such policies, they could potentially be invalidated because they have not been tested in court.
Defense counsel responded to the suit by arguing that the plaintiffs lack jurisdiction and that their requests are overbroad.
To trigger the application of the immunity, it is not enough for the provincial legislation simply to affect that which makes a federal subject or object of rights specifically of federal jurisdiction.
External links Senate Archived 2004-11-09 at the Wayback Machine and House Archived 2014-12-13 at the Wayback Machine Summary, from a Library of Congress website Blumenauer's January 2003 news release about the bill
Current situation In Italy, trusts can be used thanks to the adoption of the Hague Convention (1 July 1985), effective from 1 January 1992.
The bill was created with the intent of preserving historical information regarding slave owners and their slaves in order to provide genealogical research information for slave descendants as well as to preserve possible evidence for potential reparation claims.
It is a trust that qualifies for the marital deduction, provided that the surviving spouse is given the income at least annually and the surviving spouse has a general power of appointment over the trust property remaining at his death.
Some courts have held that a person who lacked the capacity to make a contract can nevertheless make a valid will.
Once judgment has been rendered against the defendant, there are a number of ways that the insurance company (assuming the defendant is insured) might later be made to pay the victorious plaintiff.
At last, in BCCI (Overseas) Ltd v Akindele it was held that the degree of knowledge for knowing receipt is knowledge that makes it unconscionable for recipient to retain benefit of receipt.
was founded in January 1994 by Jerry Yang and David Filo, who were graduate students at Stanford University when they created a website named "Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web".
On April 5, 1991, Thomson-CSF joined the Euromissile Economic Interest Group (GIE) to jointly develop the short-range anti-aircraft system Crotale NG.
The wind farm includes 132 Gamesa G80 wind turbines each with a two megawatt (MW) capacity along 12 miles of the Allegheny Front.
Merchant Solutions Developer site Lisp in Web-Based Applications - transcript of a talk by Paul Graham that mentions RTML Yahoo Small Business Archived 2019-12-22 at the Wayback Machine - Yahoo Small Business Official Website
It is Khartron that developed control systems for the formidable missiles SS-18 and SS-19, for the all scientific and technical modules of the MIR Space Station, and for the Zarya cargo module of the International Space Station.
As part of the acquisition, VMO2 will focus on completing Upp's build, as well as integrating and aligning the network before transferring it to Nexfibre.
Simultaneously, the USSR was conducting planning for the Mir-2 space station, and had begun constructing modules for the new station by the mid-1980s.
Transitions XTRActive (New Generation)- For those who need darker tints outdoors, including in very bright light or hot temperatures.
The acquisition of 21st Century Fox by The Walt Disney Company began December 14, 2017 and continued to March 20, 2019.
On December 4, 2018, Otter announced a broad restructuring that would result in the layoff of about ten percent of its staff.
It is headquartered in Schlumberger House on the property of London Gatwick Airport in Crawley, West Sussex.
See also Canadian cuisine References External links Official website Adams, Liz; Food Network cooks up Canadian menu; Strategy Magazine; 07/17/2000.
Uplynk Uplynk, stylized as upLynk, was a Los Angeles–based startup company founded in 2010 that created video-streaming services, notably used by Disney–ABC Television Group.
On 25 May 2011 the 100th production aircraft, ZK315, rolled off the production line at BAE Systems' site at Warton.
(January 10-March 6, 2024) Dark Side of Reality TV (September 3-November 19, 2024) Nightcap with Shannon Sharpe and Ochocinco Rehab (January 7, 2025) Calipari: Razor's Edge (January 10-March 18, 2025) Brady vs.
The lack of analog cable carriage, as well as the Bobcats' poor attendance, was seen as a primary reason.
In November 2023, The Blind became the company's top-grossing movie, taking over $15.7 million at North American box offices.
Upon leaving the program, Smith became a Senior Correspondent for CBS News and substitute anchor for the CBS Evening News, Face the Nation, and CBS News Sunday Morning.
As of 2006, the company had run into bankruptcy and restarted under the same name with investments of a third party (JP Morgan).
Manufacturing two models originally sold via fleet sales, its products were mostly used as taxis or by government employees.
The channel also airs reruns of series from parent network NBC and occasionally other NBCUniversal-owned networks, off-network series, including those from NBCUniversal Television Distribution, and feature films, primarily from the Universal Pictures catalog.
The delay injured no personnel but resulted in delays to timelines of the spacecraft's first crewed flight.
Immediately after that, the channel space that was created by The Biography Channel in 2001 simply ceased to exist.
The Nauka module finally launched in July 2021 and docked to the nadir port of Zvezda module after several days of free flight followed by the Prichal which launched on 24 November 2021.
Toyota Connected also announced it would support research projects on artificial intelligence, while simultaneously focusing on the analysis of data from vehicle sensors and cameras to develop algorithms for self-driving cars.
In this final practice, maximum CD playing time crept higher by reducing minimum engineering tolerances.
The company is 100% owned by the Bajaj Group – an Indian multinational conglomerate founded by Jamnalal Bajaj in Mumbai in 1926.
Programming Original programming Acquired programming From History Channel Upcoming programs Crassy Wheels References External links History Channel official website
The 20 foot tall marble replica, which weighs around 11 tons, was created from a 3-D computer model of the arch formed by compiling dozens of photographs taken at the site.
Through distribution centers, the company also markets directly to independent tire dealers across the United States.
Hadfield said he never intended for it to be an autobiography, but rather a rundown of some of the talks he had presented over the previous twenty one years.
Yamauchi said to employees that the company's new purpose in addition to games was now "to provide information that can be efficiently used in each household".
Google released Google Talk, a voice over IP service, and Yahoo Messenger and Yahoo message boards service, on August 24, 2005.
Known as AirTanker Hub, these facilities are owned by industry, and act as headquarters and registered office for both ATH and ATS, and contain all support services for operation and maintenance of the AirTanker fleet.
Three days later, Rogers Sports & Media announced it had reached an agreement with WBD for Canadian rights to lifestyle brands including Food Network beginning in January 2025.
Production was again allotted according to procurement: BAe (37.42%), DASA (29.03%), Aeritalia (19.52%), and CASA (14.03%).
Circle Country, previously known as Circle, is a free ad-supported streaming television (FAST) service owned by Gray Media as part of its PowerNation Studios division.
History VALCO was a joint venture with Kaiser Aluminum and ALCOA, major aluminum conglomerates both based in the United States, in the British Gold Coast colony in 1948.
On February 16, 2024, it was announced that the service would be rebranded as "Fandango at Home" to unify it with its parent company.
Validators, such as the deprecated Google Structured Data Testing Tool, or more recent Google Rich Results Test Tool, Schema.org Markup Validator, Yandex Microformat validator, and Bing Markup Validator can be used to test the validity of the data marked up with the schemas and Microdata.
In 1959, the French and West Germans had collaborated to form Transall, which produced the Transall C-160 transport aircraft in 1963.
Part of the controversy is based on claims by Greenpeace India that the sanction for the coal mine was given based on a Gram Sabha (village board) resolution that had been forged.
Food Network programming Food Network programming is divided into a daytime block known as "Food Network in the Kitchen" and a primetime lineup branded as "Food Network Nighttime".
The Lotus name returned to Formula One for the 2010 season, when a new Malaysian team called Lotus Racing was awarded an entry.
Iran-Venezuela Bi-National Bank (Persian: بانک مشترک ایران و ونزوئلا, Bank Moshtarek-e Iran vâ Vânuzuilâ, Spanish: Banco Binacional Irán-Venezuela) is an international financial institution that was founded in 2010 with an aim to develop commercial ties between Iran and Venezuela.
It was also reported that Banijay had dropped out of contention the previous week, with the North Road Company and Goldman Sachs also exiting.
These refuge acres ensure that rare resistant insects that feed on insect-protected varieties of corn will mate with susceptible insects and slow the development of resistance.
Reception The launch of the original 11 MoonSwatch models in March 2022 generated global enthusiasm.
In parallel with these regional diplomatic developments, Egyptian officials were negotiating multiple industrial and defense-related agreements between both France and Britain.
The manufacturing plant, which has the capacity to assemble up to 80,000 vehicles per year, is modeled after Iveco's Madrid plant.
After leaving the show, Smith was featured on the CBS Evening news in a weekly report called "Travels with Harry," which looked at unique people and places around the country.
Broadcast As usual, the tournament was streamed on the streaming site Twitch, broadcast across multiple different streams.
Schlumberger, owners of Geco-Prakla paid cash to Baker Hughes, which then owned Western, for a 70% stake in a joint venture of the combined companies.
In 1997, Shell embarked on two joint ventures with Texaco in which the companies merged their marketing and refining operations.
Its main product is the 40CTAS for armoured fighting vehicles such as armoured reconnaissance vehicles and infantry fighting vehicles.
While designing a pipe, when user clicks on a module on the canvas, the debugger pane shows the output of the selected module.
According to Harvard Business Review, because both health insurers and providers are profitable under the current system, Haven was unable to force the market disruption it hoped to achieve.
At the beginning of 2006, the green smiley face was replaced by the cartoon Yamster clad in a karate uniform.
In the past two centuries cattle raising became a mainstay of the economy and led to the formation of places such as Ulupalakua Ranch.
Los Angeles used the first pick in the XFL draft to select a former NFL quarterback, Scott Milanovich.
ABKO Properties was a joint venture between Wichita, Kansas real estate entrepreneur George Ablah and Wichita-based Koch Industries formed specifically to purchase Chrysler Realty Corporation in the late 1970s from a hard-pressed Lee Iacocca.
On December 14, 2018, Lifetime ceased on Astro until it was leaked on August 31, 2021, that Lifetime will be relaunch on Astro and September 15, 2021, Astro announced that Lifetime will relaunch on Astro on September 15, 2021, replacing FOX Life that will be ceased on October 1, 2021.
On December 22, 2011, Groupe TVA announced its intention to sell its share of The Cave and Mystery TV to Shaw Communications, giving Shaw full control of the two channels.
Recent history (2017–present) Philo launched its OTT streaming television service in the United States on November 14, 2017.
Four divisions - Ford of Argentina, Ford Brasil (Ford of Brasil), Volkswagen Argentina, and Volkswagen do Brasil - formed AutoLatina in July 1987.
Gaylord later bought a second country music-oriented cable network, Country Music Television (CMT), in 1991.
In July 2022, Hicks stepped down from his role as CEO and president of Toyota Connected following his retirement, being subsequently replaced by Steve Basra.
In 2017, Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran licensed the bank to open a branch in Kish Island.
The Russian Orthodox Church celebrates Christmas according to the Julian calendar, whilst the Catholic Church and the various Protestant denominations use the Gregorian calendar so the crew may celebrate Christmas more than once on the station choosing between 25 December or 6, 7 or 19 January.
History The company was originally formed as part of Telebrás, the state-owned telecom monopoly at the time.
Garten is well known for cookbooks, including The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook, Barefoot Contessa Family Style, and Barefoot Contessa in Paris.
Implementations Original Java Implementation GoLang Implementation C++ Implementation for LevelDB, RocksDB, LMDB Embedded Key-Value Stores C++ Implementation for LevelDB, RocksDB, LMDB, WiredTiger, and UDisk Embedded Key-Value Stores == References ==
In September 2018, the Leading Human Spaceflight Act was introduced with the intent to extend operations of the ISS to 2030, and was confirmed in December 2018.
2000 ended with the arrival of the first interactive services, starting with enhanced TV functions for the João Havelange Cup, using SporTV and Globo's cameras and resources.
Telecine Cult On its original incarnation, Telecine 5 and later Telecine Classic, it was dedicated to classic film.
PTEN adopted a variable schedule for the 1995-1996 season, for affiliates to schedule around The WB and UPN's programming on the night of their choosing.
Reacquisition by San Miguel and The Coca-Cola Company (2001) In July 2001, San Miguel joined forces with The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) to reacquire CCBPI, with San Miguel taking a 65% stake and TCCC the remaining 35%.
Corus stated that it intended to continue operating most of the affected networks under new brands, maintaining their existing original programming while making new content acquisitions to supplant WBD-owned programs.
However as they struggled to come up with other ideas and planned to make the Thanksgiving special two-parts before abandoning the idea.
In April 2008, Legends Hospitality Management won the Yankee Stadium concessions away from Centerplate.
FAW-GM's current products include the following models: Jie Fang Kuncheng Pickup Jie Fang 1-ton truck Jie Fang 2-ton truck Jie Fang 3-ton truck References External links Official website (archived, 11 Jan 2013)
It can read calendar feeds and events syndicated from sites that make use of the published Yahoo calendar programming interfaces.
Headquartered in Sydney, it has operations in Cairns, Darwin, Dampier, Fremantle, Western Port, Jervis Bay and Sydney.
Name M45 is named after the Messier catalog number of the constellation commonly known as the Pleiades.
Nedpower Mount Storm, LLC was formed in 2007 as a joint venture between Shell and Dominion Resources, and was acquired by a subsidiary of Castleton Commodities International in 2019.
The Astronomical Society of the Pacific has mentioned that its orbit is rather highly inclined, which makes Russian launches cheaper, but US launches more expensive.
It allowed fans to purchase branded merchandise and also used for original content creation such as Great Dinners of the World and Big Break.
See also The Biography Channel (UK and Ireland) Bio (Australian TV channel) References External links Official website
On May 15, 2023, Vice Media formally filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, as part of a possible sale to a consortium of lenders including Fortress Investment Group, which will, alongside Soros Fund Management and Monroe Capital, invest $225 million as a credit bid for nearly all of its assets.
Background During Hadfield's five-month mission aboard the International Space Station (ISS) between December 2012 and May 2013, he took 45,000 photographs of Earth from the ISS's Cupola observation dome.
Typically these might include a département together with a communauté d'agglomération or several communes.
After the merger, it was reported that the advertising spend of Virgin Media and O2 combined would make Virgin Media O2 the fifth largest advertiser in the UK, although the company clarified there would be a reduction in marketing expenditure.
In October it announced the arrival of PVRs in November, while on 4 November it adopted a new logo (still in use) and launched a schedule magazine for subscribers, akin to Net's Monet.
The company was established as a joint-venture between San Miguel Corporation (70%) and The Coca-Cola Company (30%).
One of the providers to drop the channel was Comcast, the nation's largest cable company and part-owner of Universal Sports' co-parent NBCUniversal at the time (it would later acquire the remaining ownership interest held by General Electric in 2013).
In June 2023, the Netherlands' Institute for Human Rights ruled that despite the country's constitution prohibiting discrimination based on nationality, ASML was allowed to reject job applications from residents of countries subject to sanctions under the U.S.
Vessels operated Auxiliaries General-purpose tenders Seahorse Spirit Seahorse Standard Both vessels have been retired and removed from DMS service.
At inception, Toyota invested an estimated $5.5 million in Toyota Connected; Zach Hicks, who had previously served as the chief digital officer at Toyota Motor North America, was appointed as the company’s first CEO.
It is mostly involved in the media and entertainment industry, named for its two most significant divisions: the National Broadcasting Company (NBC)—one of the United States' Big Three television networks—and Universal Pictures, one of the major Hollywood film studios.
In August 2007 $60 million was invested to increase production at Labrador City, from 17MT to 18.4MT in mid-2008.
On July 8, 2002, the Delaware State Assembly passed the Jeffrey Davis Aboveground Storage Tank Act, providing additional legal regulations for the containment and maintenance of hazardous chemicals in tanks similar to the one that failed at the Motiva Delaware City Refinery.
FYI (stylized as fyi,) was a Southeast Asian television channel (excluding Malaysia, formerly including Malaysia) dedicating to lifestyle.
Tech's "Tech Advisors" Archived 2010-03-09 at the Wayback Machine A video tour of the web site Archived 2009-12-23 at the Wayback Machine Article in Newsweek Article in The New York Times Article, in The Los Angeles Times
History GoTo and Overture GoTo (not to be confused with Go.com or Go2Net) was an Idealab spin off and was the first company to successfully provide a pay-for-placement search service.
It was owned by Dixons Retail, the United Kingdom's largest consumer electronics retail group, and operated online with a dedicated retail website, which in addition to mobile phones also offered satellite navigation systems and broadband Internet services.
According to congresswoman Helen Delich Bentley (Rep., MD), when challenged, they told the Army, "It is policy—so sue us." == References ==
In addition, based on Mitsubishi's original engine 3B20 engine, Nissan's technology was utilized to improve the compression ratio to 12:1 with regular gasoline specification.
Users must register for a free account on Evntlive’s website in order to reserve tickets and access live and on-demand content.
FEDOR is an acronym for "Final Experimental Demonstration Object Research" and a hint to the Russian male given name Fyodor (Фёдор) when transliterated without diacritics.
In March 1985 Pope John Paul II on a visit to Telespazio sent a message of peace from Fucino to all the workers of the world before continuing his Abruzzese visit to the city of Avezzano.
Racing was encouraged by the fact that in many areas, the two lines were only several hundred feet apart.
Transitions Drivewear- Drivewear lenses are photochromic and polarized lenses specially designed for driving and outdoor conditions that frequently change (sunlight, glare, weather).
Soyuz TMA-12M was the twelfth mission of the TMA-M era, immediately preceded by Soyuz TMA-11M and immediately followed by Soyuz TMA-13M.
History During the 1970s, Egypt commenced widescale efforts to replace arms imports with domestic production to provide military equipment to the rest of the Middle East as well as to build up Arab military industries.
The Human Exploration Framework Team estimated unit costs for 'Block 0' at $1.6 billion and Block 1 at $1.86 billion in 2010.
Infravia, through subsidiary Crown Infra Bidco Limited, hold a 50% stake in the company whilst the remaining 50% is held by Opal Holdco Limited, the legal entity behind Liberty Global and Telefónica's joint venture.
stated that the company cannot protect the privacy and confidentiality of its mainland Chinese customers from the authorities.
Each 2 people were from Nissan and Mitsubishi, and a total of 18 people in charge of development, 16 from Mitsubishi and 2 from Nissan.
'first light'), also known as the Mini-Research Module 1 (Russian: Малый исследовательский модуль 1) and formerly known as the Docking Cargo Module is primarily used for cargo storage and as a docking port for visiting spacecraft on the Russian segment of the ISS.
Movies Series Published games References External links Aniplex official website (in Japanese) Aniplex corporate profile USA division site Aniplex at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
It was launched on 28 June 2022, arrived in lunar orbit on 14 November 2022, and was scheduled to orbit for six months.
Traffic information from the Climatempo database for Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo was added in September; Climatempo was already responsible for the interactive weather service.
In spite of this reduced requirement, on 14 May 2009 British Prime Minister Gordon Brown confirmed the UK would move ahead with the third batch purchase.
Froneri International Limited is a global ice cream manufacturer with its headquarters in Leeming Bar, North Yorkshire, England.
On December 18, 2023, Sony Pictures Entertainment Japan announced they would sell their stakes in both Animax and Kids Station to electronic store chain Nojima.
The center maintains a research agenda that concentrates on four areas: Personalization–research on modeling content understanding, user behavior, and interests, as well as machine-learning ranking.
UFD also distributed many French-language 20th Century Fox films (along with subsidiaries; Fox Searchlight and New Regency), as well as films by MGM/UA.
On May 23, Boeing announced that the division would be known as "Boeing Brasil–Commercial," dropping the Embraer name, but had not yet decided whether to rebrand the aircraft as Boeing models.
The two companies confirmed that a potential combination was being discussed, with a transaction subject to approval by the Brazilian government and regulators, the two companies' boards and shareholders.
Fujitsu Siemens Computers had a presence in key markets across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, while products marketed elsewhere were sold under the Fujitsu brand, with the services division extending coverage up to 170 countries worldwide.
According to Ward's Auto, Erich Sonntag of BMW described the Tritec engine as old fashioned and not very effective on function, performance and fuel efficiency.
Criticism About the EBRD In the 90s, the start of the EBRD actions have been considered as slow as the amount of money loaned was rather modest compared to what was available.
The company also foresaw the possibility of Glentel's retailers showing favouritism towards Bell brands following the merger.
Mozilla.org continued, however, as the independent Mozilla Foundation, taking on many of Netscape's ex-employees.
It was reported in 2004, that the joint venture would export most of their products to Europe, as well as Southeast Asia.
The event offered tournaments for various video games, including Street Fighter V, Tekken 7, and Dragon Ball FighterZ, as well as the newly released Melty Blood: Type Lumina, Granblue Fantasy Versus and The King of Fighters XV.
In the 1960s, Catalina became a sister company to Cole of California, a swimwear manufacturer established in 1925.
From 2009 to 2012, Transitions Optical was the title sponsor of the Transitions Championship, a PGA Tour event held at Innisbrook Resort and Golf Club in Palm Harbor, Florida.
Fate It was reported by NASASpaceFlight.com in August 2021 that Boeing's VR-3500 engines developed for their lander were being cannibalized by Intuitive Machines for their future Nova-M lander.
The Wistarburg Glass Works also made glass tubes for David Rittenhouse to use in his experiments on electricity.
This operation was followed by numerous other collaborations in the field of satellite telecommunications and television services with international space agencies and started thanks to the national and international network of space centers and teleports.
(SMEJ), also known as Sony Music Japan, is a Japanese entertainment company wholly owned by Sony Group Corporation.
Equipped with facilities from material preparation, fabrication, machining, shot blasting and painting right through to assembly.
In December 2006, the North American Sports Network, which operated as a joint-venture between Benchmark Capital Europe and Setanta Sports announced the sale of the channel to ESPN for €70 million.
The standard text representation of the Proton name was also changed from the lowercase italic text "proton" to the uppercase "PROTON".
For thirteen years, Smith was a contributor to The CBS Evening News with Dan Rather, 48 Hours, and CBS News documentaries.
Among other key assets, the acquisition of 21st Century Fox by Disney included a 73% stake in National Geographic Partners (including National Geographic Traveler).
Westron JV has been successfully operating from its inception to this day modernizing I&C systems for Ukrainian nuclear power plants.
It enabled Nissan to use Bosch's engine control technology, and gave Bosch access to the Japanese market.
However, independent agencies, such as the White House Office of Management and Budget and the NASA Office of Inspector General, have offered their own estimates.
The early swimsuits were made from wool and modeled on the simple one-piece style popularized in the United States by Australian swimmer Annette Kellerman.
Q (formerly QTV and stylized as Qtv, standing for Quality TeleVision) was a television network in the Philippines run by GMA Network Inc.
Investigation The NASA inspector general launched an investigation after Boeing attempted to change the details of the submission, potentially indicating that Boeing had received information about other bids.
Complex Networks has produced more than two dozen original shows, which include Hot Ones and Desus vs.
History Snecma and NPO Saturn began cooperating in 1998, when Snecma subcontracted the production of CFM56 engine parts to NPO Saturn.
In Autumn 1993, Larisa Sinelshchikova headed, at the personal invitation of Ponomaryov, the newly established TV-6 Media advertising agency.
Career Dubuc briefly worked in NBC's publicity department before leaving to become a producer at The Christian Science Monitor and the Boston television station WGBH-TV.
In late March 2022, following international sanctions against Russia over the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, PowerJet terminated its contract to provide parts, technical support, engine maintenance, or repair services with regard to the SaM146.
Toyota Connected is a subsidiary of Toyota Motor Corporation, founded in partnership with Microsoft, and is involved in research and the development of technology for in-vehicle services, telematics and other forms of artificial intelligence.
Since 2020, OEMServices also provides a tax representation offer to various international OEM, supporting them in their expansion into France and Europe.
& Korea counterpart, Lifetime airs mostly entertainment and lifestyle programs aimed for female audiences.
In the first week of July 2024 alone, the channel reached 5.3 million viewers, establishing itself as the fastest-growing network with the highest ratings in Guatemala.
Technology development beyond the 2nd generation will be pursued independently by the two companies in order to optimize the technology for their respective product and business needs.
On 15 February 2024, it was announced that TNT Sports had agreed a four-year deal with the Football Association to show the FA Cup from the 2025–26 season.
Cannibalizing the main coverage The Triplecast service took a very austere, no-frills approach to broadcasting that included event play-by-play and commentary, but few graphics and absolutely no feature stories or background vignettes.
Since the 1990s, as the successor state to the Soviet Union, Russia has continued and expanded the programme, which became part of a multinational collaboration to ensure a permanent human presence in low Earth orbit on the ISS (ISS).
In April 2014, this was changed to allow for additional answers after a best answer was chosen, but the best answer could never be changed.
Later on Aérospatiale-Matra, DaimlerChrysler Aerospace AG (DASA) (as well as Construcciones Aeronáuticas SA (CASA)) merged on 10 July 2000 to form the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS), now known as Airbus.
Also, while "best answers" could be briefly commented upon, the comment was not visible by default and was hence hardly read.
Srinija Srinivasan, an alumna of Stanford University, was hired as Yahoo!'s fifth employee as "Ontological Yahoo!" to assist Yang and Filo with organizing the content on the internet.
Toshiba planned to expand their business into mid and small sided displays, while IBM would focus on large computer displays.
Company operations TBC markets on a wholesale basis to regional tire chains and distributors serving independent tire dealers throughout the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
The companies thus resumed their separate activities, regaining whatever physical assets they had before the merger.
In 2011 IM Flash moved to a 20 nm process– which was the smallest NAND flash technology at the time.
Along with Simon & Schuster, Hachette, HarperCollins and Macmillan Publishers, Penguin Random House is considered one of the "Big Five" English-language publishers.
The built-in templates were also written in RTML, and provided the starting point for most people who used the language.
In 2005, the company was purchased by Sumitomo Corporation of America (SCOA), one of Japan's major integrated trading and investment business enterprises.
Fish and Wildlife Service concluded that the project posed little danger to local birds, clearing the way for construction.
and Coca-Cola FEMSA Philippines, Inc., is a Philippine-based company engaged in the bottling and distribution of Coca-Cola products in the country.
This was done to increase the negotiating power of both teams for future television contracts and stadium and arena construction deals.
Ghostly Encounters Big Fat Gypsy Weddings Child Of Our Time Gene Simmons Family Jewels See also A+E Networks Crime & Investigation Network Asia History Asia FYI Notes References External links Official website
Shareholders of CIPCO had the following stakes in Karabakh field: Feasibility studies The company estimated an investment of up to $2 billion, if the feasibility studies proved the expectations for reserves.
Voting from space has some inherent difficulties, as delivering paper ballots to and from a space station—as one would do for a soldier stationed overseas—would be cost prohibitive.
NASA has suggested extending ISS operations beyond 2030 if Commercial LEO Destinations providers prove insufficient to accommodate NASA's needs.
It thus acquired control of the licenses for producing Cadbury, Del Monte and Britvic branded ice cream.
Artemis IV is planned to be the third crewed mission and first lunar landing of the NASA-led Artemis program, marking the first crewed landing on the Moon since Apollo 17 in 1972.
The village that developed around the factory adopted Wistar's name, and became known as Wistarburg.
Vivolta targeted the senior public segment (50 to 65 years), considered to be more mobile than other age groups.
It began as an experimental dorm-room streaming project using aluminium foil as a makeshift receiving antenna to "pick up (Boston area) TV signals and deliver them wirelessly to their laptops via a jerry-rigged server".
Designed as a satellite-delivered cable network, the channel is best remembered as the first 24-hour news cable competition to the Cable News Network (CNN).
Premise The series follows eight astronauts on their life changing missions aboard the International Space Station.
In December 2019, URC and German company Intersnack formed Unisnack ANZ, a joint venture comprising Snack Brands Australia and Griffin's Foods.
The company has more than 400 employees, with Kurt Preshaw as chief executive officer, in which the company had USD $248.95 million in revenue in 2021–22.
In September 2025, longtime pageant coach Thom Brodeur announced on Instagram that he had acquired the Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants as the new president, chairman, and CEO.
Ave Mujica prima aurora (2026) Video games Fire Emblem: Three Houses (2019) – CGI Animation Sakura Wars (2019) – CGI Animation Super Smash Bros.
Just as Unix pipes are often used to quickly combine several different data sources but are generally not sufficient to create a useful application, Yahoo!
Both Aisin and Denso are members of the Toyota Group and the Toyota Motor Corporation has a 10% stake in the company.
The leaders will say, 'we'll do this and we'll do this, and we will put our forces together and achieve this', and then they will do nothing.
As a result, cable customers without a digital package, as well as western North Carolina and most of South Carolina, were left to rely on radio coverage.
In 2025, former Below Deck cast member Emile Kotze filed a federal lawsuit against NBCUniversal and affiliated production entities alleging sexual harassment, manipulation, and reputational harm related to his portrayal on the show.
In 2006 he was appointed as England forwards' coach to assist then head coach Andy Robinson, alongside attack coach Brian Ashton and defence coach Mike Ford.
AMPK expression has also been shown to diminish with age, which may also contribute to suppressing mitochondrial biogenesis.
Despite clearing sixteen metres at the competition (which no athlete had done previously) he was outperformed by Poland's Józef Szmidt and settled for European silver.
To demonstrate the application of the technology, a number of healthcare exemplars have been selected.
However, a study examining high school wrestler growth patterns concluded that participation does not stunt growth.
Proctor is still the current record holder for the most tries in the Welsh league and record try scorer for Llanelli RFC.
There are both many opportunities and challenges that people with permanent disabilities experience in pursuing sport and physical activity.
Evidence While good to moderate scientific evidence exists for several of the included training principles – e.g.
For example, a force exerted upwards, like lifting an object, creates positive work done on that object.
NADH and FADH2 are recycled (to NAD+ and FAD, respectively) by oxidative phosphorylation, generating additional ATP.
There have been some anecdotal and case-study reports of bupropion abuse, but the bulk of evidence indicates that the subjective effects of bupropion when taken orally are markedly different from those of addictive stimulants such as cocaine or amphetamine.
She defended a dissertation for the Candidate of Science degree at the Lesgaft State Institute of Physical Culture in 1969 and taught at the gymnastics department of the institute until 1973.
In medicine Arteriovenous oxygen difference is also used in other areas of study such as medicine and medical research.
Fall detection Post-operative care Rehabilitation after knee-replacement surgery COPD patient monitoring Elderly care Key Partners See also Wireless sensor networks References External links Official website
It is also available over-the-counter in the form of 12.5 and 25 mg oral tablets for use as a bronchodilator and as a 0.5% concentration nasal spray for use as a decongestant.
Academics NTSU has four colleges: Notable alumni Chen Kuei-ru, athlete Transportation The university is accessible within walking distance south of National Taiwan Sport University Station of Taoyuan Metro.
Warm muscles are less susceptible to injuries because they can contract more forcefully and relax more quickly.
It may also be useful in the treatment of more severe disorders of diminished motivation, like abulia and akinetic mutism.
Each of these muscles has its own role in shoulder function and must be in balance with the others in order to avoid shoulder pathology.
The National Taiwan Sport University (NTSU; Chinese: 國立體育大學) is a public university specializing in sports in Taoyuan, Taiwan.
A 2020 Norway study found that 69% of substance use disorder patients had severe fatigue symptoms, and particularly those with extensive use of benzodiazepines.
Dextroamphetamine increases dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission in prefrontal cortex, a region of the brain that regulates cognitive control of behavior.
Since the introduction, the term has widely been used in various Danish media including Ekstra Bladet, BT, 6'eren and Kontra Magazine.
In addition to fuel the expenditure of ammunition and other consumables will reduce combat endurance, for example the limiting factors for a nuclear attack submarine are its torpedoes or for a nuclear aircraft carrier aviation fuel and aircraft munitions.
Japanese critic Hiroo Yamagata compared the book Game Nō no Kyōfu with the following movement of Messages from Water because those theories became popular via Japanese mass media without scientific backgrounds.
In the 6th century BCE, the knowledge of circulation of vital fluids through the body was known to the Ayurvedic physician Sushruta in ancient India.
In June 2012, a life-sized cast-bronze statue of Guttmann was unveiled at Stoke Mandeville Stadium as part of the run-up to the London 2012 Summer Paralympics and Olympic Games.
The concept of 'Exercise is Medicine' is that all medical specialists should be prescribing exercise regularly as an adjunct to a standard consultation.
Keylor Navas, Costa Rican professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Ligue 1 club Paris Saint-Germain.
The by-product of anaerobic glycolysis—lactate—has traditionally been thought to be detrimental to muscle function.
Following the incredible results the new Speedo LZR Racer swimsuit produced in the Beijing Olympics (Twenty-three world records were broken by the swimmers who wore LZR Racer suits, compared with only two that were broken by the swimmers who didn't.
Glutamate and GABA Glutamate, one of the most common neurochemicals in the brain, is an excitatory neurotransmitter involved in many aspects of brain function, including learning and memory.
When the external pressure rises or falls and the trapped air within the void cannot expand or contract to balance the external pressure, the pressure difference on the rigid structure of the tooth can occasionally induce stresses sufficient to fracture the tooth or dislodge a filling.
In addition, there is an optomyography (OMG) technique that uses active near-infra-red optical sensors.
Yamaguchi syndrome is an infrequent variant of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the European population.
The interaction between the neuromuscular system and the muscles is of particular importance in understanding the related physiological processes.
National Institute of Fitness and Sports in Kanoya (鹿屋体育大学, Kanoya Taiiku Daigaku) is a national university in Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan, founded in 1981.
The partnership also involved the organization of the 2017 and 2018 editions of "The Future of Football Medicine" conferences at Camp Nou.
These conclusions became a basis of the ethnosport theory which serves design and forecasting of processes of formation and functioning of social and cultural systems in the conditions of being formed trends of ethnic cultural representation in sports (Ethnocultural diversity of sport, 2011).
Other fatigue diseases may have longer patterns of activity and remission, or no remissions at all (MS).
Sodium is mainly found in the body fluids that surround the cells and is necessary for nerves, muscles, and other body tissues to function properly.
He completed postgraduate studies from 1965 to 1968, received the degree of Candidate of Sciences in 1969, and the Doctor of Sciences (Pedagogy) in 1979.
Honours Whyte was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 2014 New Year Honours for his services to sport, sport science and charity.
Catabolism on the other hand is the opposite reaction, and breaks down molecules, which in turn releases energy.
Amino acids can also be used as a fuel source during aerobic exercise, however in moderate proportions (around 3% of the total energy expenditure during exercise).
Athletic training program in doctoral education is offered by the University of Idaho, Florida International University, A.T.
In 1984, his book Sport Science was published, where he "claim[ed] to have discovered the way to make a pure shooter by following the laws of physics" and "discuss[ed] a variety of physics concepts using sports".
Methamphetamine has high brain permeability, whereas phenylephrine and norepinephrine are peripherally selective drugs.
Upon successful transportation and distribution of oxygen in the blood, the extraction and use of the blood within skeletal muscle are what give effect to a marathoner's increased aerobic capacity and the overall improvement of an individual's marathon performance.
Graduate Schools Master's and Doctoral Degree Programs, Graduate School of Health and Sport Science Research Centers Comprehensive Sport Science Research Center The Comprehensive Sport Science Research Center publishes the open access journal, "NSSU Journal of Sport Sciences".
PlaySight was named one of Fast Company's Most Innovative Companies for consecutive years in both 2017 and 2018.
The term, used by health practitioners in New Zealand draws parallel to the usual prescriptions given to patients for medications, and emphasizes the importance of exercise in improving their condition, and not relying on drugs.
As the blood flows out, the previous built-up load is decreased and hence less force is required to expel the rest of the blood.
Pharmaceutical and cosmetic applications Lactic acid is also employed in pharmaceutical technology to produce water-soluble lactates from otherwise-insoluble active ingredients.
Long QT syndrome Long QT syndrome is a familial condition that is uncommon but is a known source of sudden death in young people.
His career was again riddled by injury and prior to the 2014 season, Mitch retired from the AFL after battling depression which had hampered him for the previous 12 months.
On May 4, Drew Sheppard announced the development of a partnership with FanGraphs.com to produce additional animations.
Allowing players to drink from their own bottle at regular intervals during games, as opposed to the nearest bottle during incidental stoppages, prevented the spread of the virus.
History The academic institution was founded in 1999 with a program for 35 athletes as part of the Johan Cruyff Academy of Amsterdam and has since then become a global network.
The ability to do work can be either positive or negative depending on the direction of exertion relative to gravity.
Rate of force development (RFD) relates to the amount of force that a person can generate over a period of time.
He founded the journal Sports Engineering, the International Sports Engineering Association and the International Conference on the Engineering of Sport.
It also includes experiences of unusually severe post-exercise pain, fatigue, nausea, vomiting or other negative effects.
Exercise Is Medicine has been criticized for making exercise come across as exclusively a medical treatment when it should be seen more broadly as a public health strategy and protective risk factor that should be available to everyone.
De-aminated alanine, cysteine, glycine, serine, and threonine are converted to pyruvate and can consequently either enter the citric acid cycle as oxaloacetate (an anaplerotic reaction) or as acetyl-CoA to be disposed of as CO2 and water.
History LSU traces its origins back to 1934 when the President of Lithuania, Antanas Smetona, established the Higher Courses of Physical Education or HCPE (Lithuanian: Aukštieji kūno kultūros kursai) offering a higher education degree.
"The effect of exercise intensity and duration on the oxygen deficit and excess post-exercise oxygen consumption".
Although the original test was not designed to be performed at high volume, the Army used the burpee to test how many times it can be performed by a soldier in 20 seconds – 8 burpees in 20 seconds is considered poor, 10 is fair, 13 or more excellent.
Kinesiologists also work as functional assessment specialists, exercise therapists, ergonomists, return to work specialists, case managers and medical legal evaluators.
External links International Spinal Cord Society (ISCoS) website Story of Paralympics founder Sir Ludwig Guttmann – BBC News (video), 24 August 2012
He studied international trade at Reutlingen University, graduating with a dissertation about publicly listed football clubs.
History Founding National Taiwan University of Sport founded in June 1961 as the Taiwan Provincial Junior College of Physical Education, was Taiwan first three-year junior college that specialized in sport.
Tennur Yerlisu Lapa (born Tennur Yerlisu; November 2, 1966) is a former World and European champion Turkish female Taekwondo practitioner.
It did not occur to him to share the story widely and only mentioned it to his roommate and parents, and a flurry of press picked it up well afterwards.
[2] Recovery One study has shown a success rate of 75 to 80 percent among patients 45 years of age or younger.
First, the absolute tensions achieved can be very high relative to the muscle's maximum tetanic tension generating capacity (you can set down a much heavier object than you can lift).
Michael Phelps speculated that the new rules banning polyurethane will level the playing field once more, stating: I will say that next year swimming will be swimming again.
It was speculated prior to these events how the altitude might affect performances of these elite, world-class athletes and most of the conclusions drawn were equivalent to those hypothesized: that endurance events would suffer and that short events would not see significant negative changes.
The advantage over other core weights is the flexibility that is freed up by not constraining the upper body, the disadvantage being limited core flexion.
In the 1980s, Richard Simmons hosted an aerobic exercise show on television, and followed Jane Fonda's lead by releasing a series of exercise videos.
Applications Indirect calorimetry provides at least two pieces of information: a measure of energy expenditure or 24-hour caloric requirements as reflected by the Resting Energy Expenditure (REE) and a measure of substrate utilization as reflected in the Respiratory Quotient (RQ).
His research topics are related to physiological aspects in team and racket sports, performance testing training prescription and sports nutrition for different age groups on recreational and competitive level.
In 2008, Health Canada issued a warning that 4-AT had a health risk related to blood clotting and recommended all users immediately cease use.
An injured athlete could also have Chronic traumatic encephalopathy, which includes too much trauma to the head from practice and games.
The prognosis for anorexia nervosa is grave with a six-fold increase in standard mortality rates compared to the general population.
(1981) in Physical Education and Sport Science from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, and an MSc (1987) and PhD (1991) in Exercise Physiology from the University of Montréal, Québec, Canada.
Thus, the cause of the phenomenon began at that time to be addressed by the investigation of insanity.
It is an important component of overall fitness and has been linked to numerous health benefits, including a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, improved cognitive function, and increased longevity.
Hume's biomechanics mentors have been Professor Barry Wilson (Otago), Professor James Hay (USA) and Professor Benno Nigg (Canada), with career mentors AUT Vice Chancellor Derek McCormack (NZ), and merchant banker Lex Henry (NZ).
And although many claim that natural caffeine is absorbed slower and therefore leads to a gentler caffeine crash, there is little scientific evidence supporting the notion.
Di Salvo returned to Real Madrid in 2007 where he was appointed as director of Real Madrid TEC – the football high performance centre which he created and developed.
He noticed that those who participated in competitive sports displayed symptoms of athlete's heart syndrome.
Ainsworth, Barbara E.; Haskell, William L.; Whitt, Melicia C.; Irwin, Melinda L.; Swartz, Ann M.; Strath, Scott J.; O'Brien, William L.; Bassett, David R.; Schmitz, Kathryn H.; Emplaincourt, Patricia O.; Jacobs, David R.; Leon, Arthur S.
The findings suggest that carbohydrate mouth rinsing can be an effective strategy to enhance performance during cycling, especially in high-intensity training sessions with low carbohydrate intake.
A 2-day CPET is a cardiopulmonary exercise test given on two successive days to measure the effect of post-exertional malaise (PEM) on a patient's ability to exercise.
In combination with normethadone, it was marketed as a cough suppressant under the trade name Ticarda.
"Fasting Ghrelin Levels in Physically Active Women: Relationship with Menstrual Disturbances and Metabolic Hormones".
History The Connected Scarf is a collaboration between English Premier League side Manchester City and American technology conglomerate Cisco.
Entertainers Sonny Chiba - Actor; Martial artist Keita Machida - Actor Mandy Sekiguchi - Dancer Current notable students Athletes Uta Abe - Active Judoka; 2020 Olympic gold medalist and four-times world champion of -52 kg category.
Training of IC is recommended for athletes heading towards increasing maximum available power without growth of muscular mass.
In 1917, while volunteering at an accident hospital in Königshütte, he encountered his first paraplegic patient, a coal miner with a spinal fracture who later died of sepsis.
At a young age, he demonstrated a keen interest in sports, particularly football, alongside his religious studies in Qur'anic recitation.
Scientist After his studies in the fields of German language and literature, history, and physical education in Munich, Hermann Rieder was active as an assistant professor at the University of Würzburg.
Another set of researchers claim that altitude training stimulates a more efficient use of oxygen by the muscles.
Automatic Production PlaySight provides each of its clients with automatic production capabilities: automated live streaming and production tools, scoreboard integration and graphic overlays, as well as full tracking of games without the need for a cameraman or operator.
The effect is not visible during the classic biceps curl, which is in fact auxotonic because the resistance (torque due to the weight being lifted) does not remain the same through the exercise.
Awards and honours In 2014 the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council recognised him as a RISE Leader ("Recognising Inspirational Scientists and Engineers").
The other three regional associations coordinating university-level sports in Canada are Ontario University Athletics (OUA), the Canada West Universities Athletic Association (CW), and the Réseau du sport étudiant du Québec (RSEQ).
One hour On June 25, 2021, in Singapore, Cassiano Rodrigues Laureano achieved a record 951 chest-to-ground burpees in one hour.
As the concentrations of these molecules deviate from values at equilibrium, the value of Gibbs free energy change (ΔG) will be increasingly different.
Some sports are based almost exclusively on the ability to jump, such as high jump in track and field, whereas in other sports the act of jumping is one of multiple athletic abilities used in the sport, such as basketball.
Merging failed In 1998, National Taiwan College of Physical Education is blazing a new campus in Puzi, Chiayi County, and place their library in Chiayi County Stadium before completion of their teaching complex building.
While the terms tanking and rebuilding are sometimes used interchangeably, there are differences between the two concepts.
Regulation In oxidative phosphorylation, the key control point is the reaction catalyzed by cytochrome c oxidase, which is regulated by the availability of its substrate – the reduced form of cytochrome c.
It has been shown, however, that these changes develop independently in time from one another and that the soreness is therefore not the cause of the reduction in muscle function.
His doctoral research examined exercise training and antioxidant supplementation in relation to oxidative stress and cardiac function.
As a consequence of the actions of the many National Federations, the National Sports Council was formed in 1994 and was immediately accepted as a full member of the newly formed body.
Art Therapy There is also the option of art therapy, this was created by a man called Adrian Hill, in 1942 and is one of the earliest forms of treatment.
It is headquartered in Žaliakalnis neighbourhood, in close proximity to the Kaunas Sports Hall and the S.
The intramuscular coordination defines the number of muscular fibres that can be controlled synchronously by the nervous system within a certain muscle.
The Sport Sciences Research Institute of Iran (SSRI) is the only national organization in charge of scientific research in the field of Physical Education and Sport Sciences.
Hill returned briefly to Cambridge in 1919 before taking the chair in physiology at the Victoria University of Manchester in 1920 in succession to William Stirling.
Another review indicated that, based upon the longest follow-up studies conducted to date, lifetime stimulant therapy that begins during childhood is continuously effective for controlling ADHD symptoms and reduces the risk of developing a substance use disorder as an adult.
Because PEM is also a symptom of long COVID, the 2-day CPET may be useful in evaluating exercise intolerance there as well.
He was Director of Research and Statistics for the Baltimore Orioles from 1988 to 1994 and Director of Baseball Operations for the San Diego Padres from 1995 to 1999.
With the fiber-glass pole, the vaulter does less work at the start but must do much more at the end.
Some researchers have argued that prospective longitudinal studies, following subjects over time, are needed to completely understand the causes and progression of CTE.
Muscle secretion of a hormone that activates adipose thermogenesis during this process might provide a broader, more robust defense against hypothermia.
For example, an ability to achieve a higher RFD will mean a person can jump higher than they would be able to do otherwise.
Technology, therefore, dominates this field and one specific aspect that demonstrates this involves the technologies that enhance fuel efficiency.
References External links Information on microvessel studies (wire myograph) Various types of blood vessel myographs Blood vessel myographs
The study found that heart rates rose from 133 to 146 beats per minute and power output increased accordingly, when listening to the tempo-less sound of crashing waves versus music with a medium to fast tempo.
Blocking aromatase causes the body to decrease in levels of estradiol, which then results in increase of LH and consequently, testosterone.
He was retrospectively capped for England for a game against Italy in Rovigo in 1990, at the time this was considered uncapped.
The most common individuals who experience PTSD are those among war, but it is not only veterans who experience this disorder.
There is noticeably lower shooting numbers in domed stadiums, usually football stadiums temporarily converted to a basketball arena, compared to typical basketball arenas.
Chronic aerobic exercise improves cardiovascular function through adaptations like increased left and right ventricular function, raising cardiac output and maximum oxygen consumption.
She started working with Paralympic athletes in 1994, and attended the 1996 Summer Paralympics, 2000 Summer Paralympics and the 2012 Summer Paralympics.
In the 2025 King’s Birthday Honours, Hume was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to sports science and injury prevention.
Certain analgesics also work to decrease the source of the pain by working to decrease swelling and inflammation, as in the case of NSAIDs.
In 1994, Yerlisu began her doctoral thesis on sports organization and management at Gazi University, receiving a PhD title in 1999.
It is more hydrophilic than ephedrine, which has an experimental log P of 1.13 and a predicted log P of 0.9 to 1.32.
See also Exercise prescription software Exercise medicine Exercise physiology Kinesiology Sports medicine Exercise is Medicine == References ==
The system is designed to centralize and synchronize player performance information, allowing continuous monitoring and supporting evidence-based decision-making in Qatari football.
These setbacks and the arrival of Alan Cork as manager, saw Thompson being loaned out to League Two Shrewsbury Town in January 2002.
In November 2011, MOE approved school change its name to National Taiwan University of Physical Education (NTUPE), and keep Chinese abbreviation of the National Taiwan Sports University (Chinese: 臺體、臺灣體大).
On May 11, 2024, a new record of 8,523 burpees in 12 hours was set in Narbonne, France, by Joseph Salas.
Other uses Noakes, St Clair Gibson and Lambert created the idea of the central governor in the context of prolonged endurance exercise.
"Changing policy priorities for sport in England: the emergence of elite sport development as a key policy concern".
International Olympic Committee (IOC) adoption In October 2019, the IOC hosted a 3-day consensus meeting in Lausanne, Switzerland to provide a standard method to report injuries and illnesses in sport.
In summary, despite being a popular theory, the bulk of evidence suggest that subacromial impingement probably does not play a dominant role in many cases of rotator cuff disease.
Production Anabolic steroids are produced in pharmaceutical laboratories, but in nations where stricter laws are present, they are also produced in small homemade laboratories.
Finally, even with AEDs and staff present, because of the rarity of cardiac arrest in the community especially in young people, event staff may not be well or recently trained to respond, or may not be concentrating at the time of an arrest.
This relationship is defined by the equation ΔrGo = -RT ln(K), where K is the equilibrium constant, which is equal to the reaction quotient Q in equilibrium.
It can cause cardiac arrest during athletic activity but also when doing other activities that raise heart rate.
This can cause a massive discharge of histamine, resulting in low blood pressure, fainting, shock and even loss of life.
Improving combat endurance The improvements of combat endurance are largely concerned with better efficiency to the current platforms and they aim to bridge the gap between the resources available today and the future.
The work of his former assistant Rob Neyer, who later became a senior writer at ESPN.com and national baseball editor of SBNation, also contributed to popularizing sabermetrics since the mid-1980s.
Power amplification through stored energy Grasshoppers use elastic energy storage to increase jumping distance.
Ho Chi Minh University Of Sport (Vietnamese language: Đại học Thể dục Thể thao Thành Phố Hồ Chí Minh) is a university in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
Opportunities for graduates in these fields include employment as a Physical Education teacher, Dietician or Nutritionist, Performance Analyst, Sports coach, Sports therapist, Fitness center manager, Sports administrator, Strength and Conditioning specialist, or retail manager of a sports store.
On October 19, 2004, the Computer Entertainment Supplier's Association announced that the neuroscientific works of Mori and Ryuta Kawashima about video games had insufficient evidence to claim something.
Bill Haskell from Stanford University conceptualized the compendium and developed a prototype for the document.
Two leads are then inserted; one into the right atrium and the other into the right ventricular apex via the subclavian veins.
See also List of Republic of Ireland international footballers born outside the Republic of Ireland References External links Jon Goodman at Soccerbase
The evening classes for working students were phased out by the 2000s in favor of other options, such as online learning, short certificate courses and part-time studies.
In the U.S., anabolic steroids are listed as Schedule III controlled substances under the Controlled Substances Act, which makes the possession of such substances without a prescription a federal crime punishable by up to seven years in prison.
Wayne Thomas Proctor (12 June 1972) is a former Wales international rugby union footballer, who was a winger/full-back for Wales, Llanelli RFC and subsequently the Llanelli Scarlets.
Her academic interest is all about recreation, on which subject she has publications at national and international level.
It consists of doing a forward flexion of the trunk with the feet hip-width apart, the knees extended and the hands straight, trying to touch the tips of the feet.
The spatial and temporal summation of ~30,000 Ca2+ sparks gives a cell-wide increase in cytoplasmic calcium concentration.
Profound and debilitating fatigue is the most common complaint reported among individuals with autoimmune disease, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, celiac disease, Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome, and rheumatoid arthritis.
He was Scientific Consultant for the German Tennis Federation and holds an A-level Coaching license.
Greg Whyte, OBE (born 21 June 1967), also known as Super-Greg, is a former Olympian and a Sports Scientist.
Aitana Bonmatí Conca, Spanish professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Liga F club, FC Barcelona Femení and the Spanish national team.
Chemically, bupropion is an aminoketone that belongs to the class of substituted cathinones and more generally that of substituted amphetamines and substituted phenethylamines.
Structure Confederation of African Esports, like other sports confederations, is constituted as a voluntary association.
It is a commonly held belief among wrestlers, however, that these ointments do not treat symptoms Sometimes wrestlers who don't want to report an infection to their coach will resort to unusual and unhealthy treatments.
However, higher doses for longer periods of time are being studied to offset creatine synthesis deficiencies and mitigating diseases.
The design of the suit covers basically the whole torso and the legs with the impermeable polyurethane, thereby exposing less skin to the water and improving the swimmer's buoyancy and streamlined shape.
Hawthorn denied any such events occurred and the matter was not taken any further by the AFL or the Geelong Football Club.
They found no difference in leg swing times at different speeds, and recorded leg swing times similar to that of non-disabled sprinters.
Chemical production Racemic lactic acid is synthesized industrially by reacting acetaldehyde with hydrogen cyanide and hydrolysing the resultant lactonitrile.
For instance, playmakers and coaches use it in organizing the game by distributing more balls to players who are on a winning streak, or to organize a better defense against those players.
4-Hydroxytestosterone (4-OHT), also known as 4,17β-dihydroxyandrost-4-en-3-one, is a synthetic anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) and a derivative of testosterone that was never marketed.
In addition, DHT is inactivated by high activity of 3α-HSD in skeletal muscle (and cardiac tissue), and AAS that lack affinity for 3α-HSD could similarly be expected to have a higher myotrophic–androgenic ratio (although perhaps also increased long-term cardiovascular risks).
History NTSU was originally established as National College of Physical Education and Sports on 1 July 1987.
The university provides education in sports and gymnastics from undergraduate to graduate and postgraduate.
Duration of the effect The EPOC effect is greatest soon after the exercise is completed and decays to a lower level over time.
It is used by pharmacologists to measure the effect of test articles on blood pressure or on airway contractility.
Suicide As mentioned previously, psychological distress as a result from a sports related injury has been shown to increase the risk of suicide among athletes.
In 1960 the university was among the first batch of key national universities designated by the State Council.
Cytokines Cytokines can manipulate neurotransmissions creating sickness behavior, characterized by malaise and fatigue.
GrassMaster is a hybrid grass sports playing field surface composed of natural grass combined with artificial fibres.
Masters competition Pataki won world championships and set several records as a masters athletics (track and field) competitor in shot put, discus, and weight pentathlon.
Raja Sports School is a State sports school in Aruvikkara, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, focused on developing young athletes in various sports.
Dermatographism is the most common form of a subset of chronic hives, acknowledged as "physical hives".
Other regions of the brain that demonstrate moderate or less significant gains in gray matter volume during neuroimaging include the anterior cingulate cortex, parietal cortex, cerebellum, and nucleus accumbens.
The government also requires that all students in grades 1 through 8, including those with special needs, be provided with opportunities to participate in a minimum of twenty minutes of sustained, moderate to vigorous physical activity each school day during instructional time.
SportVU provides statistics such as real-time player and ball positioning through software and statistical algorithms.
He also wrestled again in the UK, losing to Danny Boy Collins in Bath 1991 in a match for the World Middleweight championship, as well as wrestling in France on TV matches for Eurosport's New Catch program.
Bett's win was Kenya's first in the history of the World Championships, for an event shorter than 800 metres.
He became a member of the Lexington Police Department's narcotics squad in the early 1970s and worked on narcotics investigations with the Louisville office of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
He was swimming in the Atlantic south-west of the Azores, and dived from the conning tower, but struck the deck head-first when the U-boat suddenly lurched in a swell.
Akira Yamamoto (山本 旭, Yamamoto Akira) (1913 – 24 November 1944) was an officer and ace fighter pilot in the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) during the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Pacific theater of World War II.
Richard is sometimes referred to as the "Duke of Bernay", as if part of his father's continental possessions, as in Burke's Peerage; this is a mistake based on the misinterpretation of a 16th-century inscription on his tomb, which was also intended for the Earl Beorn, nephew of Cnut the Great.
In North America to model clothes after the 1963 season ended in Europe, Henneberger was not planning to compete at the U.S.
started a new feud with the debuting El Patrón by attacking him and his father Dos Caras at the start of the show.
By comparison, the man-made 1972 Olympic slalom course at Augsburg in Germany falls at 50 feet per mile (9.5 m/km).
Weiler rose through the ranks and was a First Sergeant when he was commissioned as a First Lieutenant in 1912.
On December 11, 1905, before the start of the 1905–06 season, Stuart was suspended from the league after the western teams complained that he had won too many championships and was too rough for the league.
Although that bill was never voted on in the Senate, a similar Senate bill was passed after his death and named the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act in his memory.
He competed in the 2000 Summer Olympics and his best international achievement was a sixth place at the 2003 World Indoor Championships.
In 1777, Harrod became a justice in Kentucky County, and was elected to the Virginia House of Delegates in 1779.
Isaac then became the guest of Masoud, the Seljuk Sultan of Rum, and subsequently of Leo, the Prince of Cilician Armenia.
He made two appearances for the Europeans cricket team in the 1892–93 and 1893–94 Bombay Presidency Matches; he also made a single appearance for Bombay against Lord Hawke's touring team in December 1892.
At Les Arcs, during the Albertville Games in 1992, Bochatay placed 13th in the men's race with a speed of 210 km/h (130 mph).
The risk for death from Alzheimer's disease and ALS were about four times higher among the NFL cohort.
During the attempt the exhaust valve of his oxygen mask froze preventing him from breathing properly for about four minutes.
The Olympic 100 km team time trial road race was held in 40 °C (104 °F) heat on Via Cristoforo Colombo in Rome.
Personal life The son of German-born businessman Sir Carl and Adele Meyer, Meyer was also successful in business, becoming vice-chairman of the De Beers diamond cartel.
Having changed his focus to primarily the shot put, the 2005 season marked a further breakthrough into the senior ranks.
He died later the same night at a hospital in Interlaken after undergoing several blood transfusions.
These tended to have regional usage: for example, "stave" was used in the Gloucester area and "batt" in the south-east; while "staff" and especially "stick" were more widely used.
Moulay Rashid remained in Dila' for some time, receiving the allegiance of the people of the Middle Atlas.
John Jeirus Barnett (December 16, 1879 – September 3, 1923) was an American professional baseball player who played outfielder in the major leagues for the 1907 St.
They would travel with the seasons following Ed's professional work and so they shared their time between three homes: Alta in the winter, Blue Glacier in the summer and Kirkland the rest of the year.
Odlum was a friend of Matthew Webb, who died in 1883 in an attempt to swim through the Whirlpool Rapids below Niagara Falls.
This was the first individual gold medal won in equestrian, and second overall gold won by Canada in Olympic history, the other being a team medal coming from the 1968 Olympics.
See also Olympic and Paralympic deaths References External links George Van Cleaf at the USA Water Polo Hall of Fame George Van Cleaf at Olympics.com George Van Cleaf at Olympedia George Van Cleaf at InterSportStats
According to his daughter, Peri, her father initially wished to become a pastor and was a theologian who studied at Baylor University.
His was the third death of a Red Bull sponsored extreme sports athlete that year (the second death in Switzerland) after Shane McConkey and Eli Thompson.
After 1935, her sports activities started successfully, when she was one of Czechoslovakia's best female gymnasts.
At the subsequent by election, James Bevan Bowen was elected to the seat, the by-election unopposed by the Liberals.
Bowie gained an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Southern Mississippi, doing an interdisciplinary degree in psychology and social work.
His mother, Queen Dagmar, died in childbirth in 1212, leaving her husband a widower with a young son; she had been very popular among the Danish people due to her piety and kindness to the common people.
For the first time ever, Pomagalski had earned an overall victory in the World Cup, and also earned second place in the snowboard cross discipline and third place in the parallel ranking as well.
Abdalelah Haroun Hassan (Arabic: عبد الإله هارون; 1 January 1997 – 26 June 2021) was a Qatari track and field sprinter.
The king maintained a cautious approach, resisting direct European control while ensuring that trade and diplomatic relations were sustained when beneficial to the kingdom.
This was a radical departure from the methods of his father, who had used the imperial family and its many connections to fill almost all senior administrative and military posts.
Zoricic's family threatened to sue the International Ski Federation and Alpine Canada if they refuse to launch an independent investigation.
Despite the belated attempt to open her reserve parachute, she crashed to the ground and died on impact.
She represented the skiing club Ounasvaaran Hiihtoseura of her native Rovaniemi and was a member of the Finnish alpine ski team since 1976.
After the impact with the bridge, Weston's parachute deployed and he fell onto a rock face about 300 feet (91 m) from the bottom of the gorge, where he bled to death.
While employed at the Hygeia Hotel, Odlum saved the life of "Sky" Colfax, the sixteen-year-old son of former Vice President Schuyler Colfax, as well as two other swimmers.
On 7 September 2000, Anugo was killed after being hit by a car in Sydney, Australia, where he had recently completed team trials in preparation for the Olympics.
He was best known for his public displays of high and acrobatic diving, usually into shallow depth tanks and pools.
However, Bett was still considered one of the favourites for the 400 metres hurdles event, following his 2015 World Championships win.
References 12 September 2009 final results for the men's C2 team slalom event for the 2009 ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships.- accessed 12 September 2009.
This was necessary to limit the threat posed by the Normans of southern Italy to Byzantine territory in the Balkans.
supportive of Woodrow Wilson's pro-Allied policies) forces in Wisconsin, and contrasted him with "Senator La Follette and the pro-German constituency behind him".
He acquired a love of the country, particular horses and fox hunting, from his first wife, and became a keen follower of the Pytchley Hunt, in Northamptonshire.
Later that same month, he competed at his fourth straight BRO Finals; the event having returned to Denver.
FIL Secretary General Svein Romstad summarized: "What happened to Nodar has been an unforeseeable fatal accident." Coroner's report The British Columbia Coroners Service investigated the incident.
Ignaz Stiefsohn (April 26, 1911 - August 3, 1936) was an Austrian aviator who led the Austrian gliding team in the 1936 Olympics.
Borcke took part in Napoleon's Russian campaign as a member of the Prussian contingent allied to Napoleon.
Competition record Personal bests Outdoor 200 metres – 20.76 (-1.0 m/s, Athens 1991) Indoor 200 metres – 21.09 (Seville 1991) References All-Athletics profile
Death Rich was killed at Rawalpindi on 17 November 1884, aged 35, as the result of an accident while playing polo.
Early life and education Gum was born at Quambi Hospital in Adelaide, South Australia, son of Stanley Sturt Edgar Gum and Ivy Olive (née Storr), of Appila, South Australia.
Gordon Westcott (born Myrthus Hansen Hickman; November 6, 1903 – October 30, 1935) was an American film actor.
Edith Georgette Clark (also known as Edith Boiteux, 15 June 1904 – 16 March 1937) was a French aviator and parachutist.
Admire Rakti started 9/2 favourite, but weakened badly in the last 600 metres and finished last of the twenty-two runners.
Rotational falls are most likely to occur during cross country as the fall occurs when the "horse hits a solid fence either with its chest or upper forelegs".
Death Hughes had suffered an injury in an August 1971 preseason game against the Buffalo Bills and collapsed in the locker room.
On July 23, 1886, Steve Brodie supposedly became the first man to survive a jump off the Brooklyn Bridge, although it would later be alleged that Brodie faked the jump by having a friend throw a dummy from the bridge.
He was the network's National Security Correspondent from 1985 until his retirement in 2003, and was in The Pentagon when it was struck by hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 during the September 11 attacks.
He was a member of the National Assembly for Balassagyarmat (Nógrád County Constituency IV) between 1994 and 1998.
The suggestion that racers from Australia and New Zealand should not compete on downhill courses gave him motivation to prove otherwise.
References External links Vougiouklaki Penelope, "John I Grand Komnenos", Encyclopedia of the Hellenic World: Asia Minor
Kpana-Quamoh was transferred to Vanderbilt University Medical Center where he was pronounced dead, only three days after earning his 300m hurdle gold medal and qualifying for the state championship.
References External links "The Faitful [sic] Mountain: The worst day in the history of the Lauberhorn Race..." History.
After training with the Nigerian team in Adelaide, Australia, Anugo was ultimately not selected during final selections.
A French Resistance member, he was deported by the occupation authorities to Dachau concentration camp, Germany, but died on train en route at Puteaux, France, on 2 July 1944 aged 48.
The next day, Roland Simpson leapt from the Jin Mao Building, the tallest skyscraper in China at the time, in a wingsuit.
At Wiesbaden, he worked closely with his brother, Hermann Pagenstecher (1844–1932), who took control of the eye hospital following his death.
Accidents happen to bicycles, to horses, even to bath-chairs...We have a machine that can go on land, in the air, and in the water.
The accidental death of a world-class paddler was the subject of much reflection and soul-searching in the whitewater community.
After the attack on Shamrock, Hart became the co-leader, with The Rock, of the Nation of Domination, claiming that "Enough is enough and it's time for a change".
Family life Major Cornwallis, married Harriet Elizabeth (née Mott), daughter of John Thomas Mott on 29 July 1863 and had 4 children.
On 7 January 2015, Ekeng made his full squad debut, coming on as a 57th-minute substitute for Franck Kom in a 1–1 friendly draw against DR Congo in his hometown's Stade Ahmadou Ahidjo.
References Georgi Dakov at World Athletics Evans, Hilary; Gjerde, Arild; Heijmans, Jeroen; Mallon, Bill; et al.
Moser was a lawyer by profession and married to Philippe Rochat, renowned chef and owner of a prominent Swiss restaurant.
A civilian in the war, he was deported to Germany after being denounced to the Gestapo for anti-German remarks in 1943 and died at Dora-Mittelbau concentration camp on 30 March 1945 aged 54.
José Francisco de Peralta y López del Corral (April 3, 1786 - September 16, 1844) was a Costa Rican priest and politician.
He had arrived back from the 2018 African Championships in Athletics in Nigeria two days earlier, and was driving along the Kapsabet to Eldoret road on his way back to Nairobi.
He fought off an invasion led by King Simon I of Kartli, who sought to reunite all of Georgia under his aegis, and secured his protégé Rostom on the throne of Imereti, thereby briefly restoring relative peace in western Georgia.
Favre would return to competing in Porsche's across a number of series, before in 2003 joining the FIA Sportscar Championship driving a Lucchini SR2000 alongside Christophe Ricard.
Playing with Tony Torrance he lost his foursomes match 4&3 and was not selected for the singles matches on the second day.
Throughout his time in parliament he sat on the opposition benches, with the government being led by the Liberals with Palmerston and later Russell as Prime Minister.
He was selected by the Frankfurt Galaxy with the fourth overall pick in the 2003 NFL Europa free-agent draft, but chose instead to begin his Arena Football League (AFL) career with the Tampa Bay Storm.
Career Day started boxing in 2006 under the guidance of former firefighter and boxing trainer Joe Higgins.
He functioned as a member of the Committee on Youth and Sports since 15 May 2002 and Committee on Human Rights, Minority and Religious Affairs since 4 June 2002.
See also Juan Izquierdo, who also died in the Morumbi List of association footballers who died while playing References External links Serginho at Sambafoot (archived)
In his honor, the New York Athletic Club postponed their planned swimming meet scheduled for the evening of December 10, 1904.
Death On 29 October 2001, Cavagnoud collided with German ski coach Markus Anwander during ski training in Pitztal, Austria, as he crossed the piste.
Record setting On 17 January 1899 at Achères, Yvelines near Paris, France, he reached the speed of 66.66 km/h (41.42 mph) over one kilometre, driving a CGA Dogcart.
Pybus was amazed as to how the Kandyans had managed to fight a war with Dutch and had captured Matara Dutch Fort.
Written works Klinische Beobachtungen aus der Augenheilanstalt in Wiesbaden (with Edwin Theodor Saemisch and Arnold Pagenstecher).
Career Born in Acomb, Yorkshire, Hick signed for Bradford City in July 1948 after playing amateur football for the Army, leaving the club in July 1950.
He generally played as a forward and was "ranked as one of the best football players of his day" who "strove hard to pass the backs".
Death In early 1914, Dodge was released from the Reds, and by 1916 was playing with the Mobile Sea Gulls of the Southern League.
Honours Source: Persela Lamongan Liga Indonesia Second Division: 2001 East Java Governor's Cup: 2003, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2012 See also List of one-club men in association football References External links "Choirul Huda".
Stiefsohn worked for the 1st Aviation Regiment of the Theresian Military Academy and was one of the earliest aviators in Austria to practice gliding, even leading his own gliding school.
Later that year, the Court of Appeal in Perugia acquitted all three doctors, concluding that the chaotic emergency conditions made it unreasonable to expect a different response.
Krenz became the first man to break 50 meters in the discus in 1930, throwing 51.03 m (167 ft 5+3⁄8 in) at an intercollegiate meet in Palo Alto, California.
He had two international caps for his country's national team, whom he represented at the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations.
Hague was removed from life support and died on June 18, 2017, of injuries sustained during a boxing match at the Shaw Conference Centre on June 16, 2017, at Edmonton, Canada, with Adam Braidwood.
On August 3, 1936, during a gliding demonstration at the Germany Summer Olympics, the wing of Stiefsohn's glider broke.
Busbecq was also aware of Dadian's past captivity at the hands of "the Iberians", who had captured him during a drinking party after a peace conference.
After the death of Richard Odlum in the mid-1850s, the Odlums traveled to New Orleans, then to New York City, Boston, Detroit, Cleveland, and Montreal, Canada.
Langensalza, 12 November 1730), married on 7 January 1698 to Johann Georg, Duke of Saxe-Weissenfels.
The leading Hungarian and Polish lords confirmed Louis's promise of Mary's and Sigismund's marriage on 14 pril 1375.
Manik then fell onto the middle rope beside Aguayo; when he appeared to be limp and unconscious, Manik shook him slightly to revive him.
Basketball teams may honor active players who died by bestowing upon them a posthumous honor of a retired number.
Reactions to Hickstead's death Hickstead really was a horse in a million and my heart goes out to Eric and everyone connected with this wonderful horse.
A crowd of 100,000 watched him frantically tug on the ripcord of his emergency chute, but that failed too, and Sohn, 26 years old, plunged to his death.
Philip gained victory, after having sent his agent Guillaume de Nogaret to arrest Boniface at Anagni.
Meant to further seal a lasting peace, it eventually produced an English claimant to the French throne itself, leading to the Hundred Years' War.
BASE jumping career Weston, who was originally from Sydney, Australia, worked as a software developer and was a skilled gymnast and surfer.
His mother, Elsie Davidge née Hamer was of an old Lancashire family who settled at Hamer Hall in the 14th century.
Works The crucifix of Mount Sëura Sas, carved in wood on the mountain itself with Vincenzo Peristi, currently exhibited in the Museum of Val Gardena in Urtijëi.
Takada died of a fall from Mount Hotakadake, (2,859 m) in Takayama City, Gifu Prefecture while on a backcountry skiing trip.
On 9 October 2009, the day before their 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Portugal in Lisbon, the Hungary national team squad laid a wreath next to a metal bust of Fehér at Benfica's homeground, in tribute to his memory.
He played in most of the team matches in the 1924 season, batting mainly in the middle order, but his best score and his only total ever of more than 50 was made as an opening batsman, with 81 in the match against H.
John Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle (9 January 1662 – 15 July 1711) was an English peer and politician.
Bochatay was the third athlete to die at a Winter Olympics, after British luger Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski and Australian skier Ross Milne, who both died at Innsbruck 1964.
In June 1942, during the Battle of Midway, Kaga was fatally damaged by enemy action while Yamamoto was participating in the fleet's combat air patrol.
He made two appearances in first-class cricket for Hampshire, against Kent at Catford in 1875, and Derbyshire at Derby in 1877.
Film career Being one of a small few skiers known for going big, Pierre played a key role in several major ski films of his time.
He is best known for his successful test in July 2000 of Leonardo da Vinci's (1452–1519) parachute design, proving it to be in retrospect the world's first working parachute.
Simon Andrews Andrews was airlifted to a hospital in Northern Ireland in critical condition after suffering a serious crash while competing in the North West 200 on Saturday, 17 May 2014.
When a Sassanid contingent under Azarethes threatened to break into the city through one of the gates, Peranius led reinforcements of soldiers and citizens to the spot and averted the danger.
New structures were built on top of Old Fort Hill, which today is the site of Old Fort Harrod State Park.
His abolition of many farm monopolies on various goods led to increased competition and boosted trade, and large areas of land were opened up for mining and agricultural development when a number of large concession holders of land were required to relinquish or divide their holdings.
He failed to win in his remaining six races but finished fourth in both the Tennō Shō and the Japan Cup.
On 9 May 1530, exhausted by the warfare that had seen the deaths of their best warriors and the enforced abandonment of their crops, the two kings of the most important clans returned from the wilds.
Bratton was also a member of the NYAC team in the men's 4x50-yard freestyle relay which finished fourth in the Olympic final.
Death On May 2, 2023, after Bowie had not been seen or heard from for several days, authorities performed a wellness check at her home in Orange County, Florida, where she was found dead.
Honors In 1996, the PBR introduced the Lane Frost/Brent Thurman Award; presented to the bull rider with the highest-marked single ride at the annual PBR World Finals.
He became the fourth athlete to die during preparations for a Winter Olympics, and the eighth athlete to die as a result of Olympic competition or during practice at their sport's venue at an Olympic Games.
Ed's professional library of research became the property of his son David Archived 2019-02-25 at the Wayback Machine who in turn placed the collection in the keeping of the San Juan Historical Archive building in Silverton, Colorado, through a grant from the Center for Snow and Avalanche Studies.
Since Fallmerayer, most historians have assume that Ioannikios was John Axouchos' son, but Panaretos' Chronicle does not state how the two were related.
Mark Robinson recounted that Thomson stood and contemplated the aurora for an extended period of time before going back into his cabin to paint by lamplight.
On 4 July 2009, he signed a three-year deal with Le Mans FC, and was initially assigned to the reserve squad in the Championnat de France Amateur.
He was the Trinidad and Tobago 100/200 metres champion in 1978, and he won these titles again in 1983.
Held on an icy course in challenging conditions of fog and flat light, Semmerlink was the 44th racer on the Kandahar course.
Harrod again served in the militia, and defended the settlement of Harrodstown from Indian attacks throughout the summer of 1777.
See also List of New South Wales representative cricketers References External links Walter Duff at ESPNcricinfo
On his second appearance for England, against Wales on 14 March the same year, Ducat scored the only goal in a 1–0 win.
Anthony Meyer inherited his father's title at the age of fifteen when Frank Meyer died in a hunting accident at in Ayot St Lawrence, Hertfordshire.
Biography Westcott studied architecture at the University of Chicago, where he was also lightweight boxing champion of the university.
In his last two races of the year he was moved up in class to finish third in both the Listed Andromeda Stakes and the Grade II Kinko Sho.
He was born in Cartago, Costa Rica, the son of José María de Peralta y La Vega and Ana Benita de Nava López del Corral.
She is the youngest skier ever to win the Finnish alpine ski championship with her gold medal in the women's slalom in 1977 when she was only 14 years old.
Michael Goolaerts (Dutch: [ˈmɑikəl ˈɣoːlaːrts]; 24 July 1994 – 8 April 2018) was a Belgian cyclist who rode for Vérandas Willems–Crelan.
That year he also made the early breakaways in the Tour of Flanders, where he remained in the front group for over 200 km, Halle–Ingooigem, where his performance earned the praise of Tom Boonen, and Paris-Tours.
Hall shouted for the other mechanic, Ken Ryall, to prise them loose and the pair laid the lifeless Simpson beside the road.
They later went into the live cattle trade, acquiring two pastoral leases in the Northern Territory (Newry Station and Auvergne Station).
He went to Olpopongi Primary School, but did not go to high school, since his parents could not afford to pay his school fees.
Examination by physicians, however, showed that his face was crushed in such a manner that complications might result and he was taken to a hospital, but nothing medical aid could do would save his life." Dodge died the following night, at the age of 23.
Miguel Ángel Gómez Campuzano (24 April 1968 – 6 April 1993) was a Spanish sprinter who competed primarily in the 200 metres.
In the second meet of the 2017 IAAF Diamond League in Shanghai, Bett won the 800 m event in 1:44.70.
Rajesh Ghodge (15 January 1975 – 13 January 2019) was an Indian cricketer who played in two first-class and eight List A matches for Goa between 1997 and 2005.
Mustonen was voted by Finnish sports journalists as the best alpine skier in Finland in two consecutive years, 1977 and 1978.
On 31 August of the following year, after suffering relegation in last place, he rescinded his contract.
The sculptural set is sculptor Jesús Lizaso's work, and it can be found at the entrance to the Vista Alegre bullring in Bilbao.
Balykina tested positive for drostanolone in an out-of-competition doping test in June 2013 and was banned from competitive athletics for two years.
During the 2015–16 season, Dwamena made his first start for Liefering on 21 August against Wiener Neustadt.
He and his water polo teammate, David Bratton, died of typhoid fever within four months after the competition.
FC Liefering In July 2014, Dwamena was promoted to FC Liefering, the Salzburg farm team playing in the Austrian Football First League.
Death Jones died in 1978 on the Braldu River which flows off K2, the world's second highest mountain, in Pakistan.
Urbán gained a parliamentary seat from the Socialist party's Nógrád County Regional List in the 2002 parliamentary election.
He was a right-handed batsman and wicket-keeper who played for Border during the 2009–10 season, making four first-class and four List-A appearances.
As planned, the four paddlers would run or hike the gorge by themselves, carrying their own equipment and food for 15 days.
The son of a prominent Oregon clothing maker, Bishop played college football at Columbia University in New York City Bishop died on January 16, 1927, in Pendleton, Oregon, after having accidentally shot himself while duck hunting nearby.
His fifth and only surviving son, Wilhelm August, was born eight days after his father's death and became duke from the moment of his birth; Johann George became the regent of the duchy and also the guardian of the new duke.
The defending warriors were described by Alvarado as engaging in fierce hand-to-hand combat using spears, stakes and poisoned arrows.
Whilst staying at the court Speke was given two girls aged about 12 and 18 from the entourage of the Queen Mother.
One of Latham's maternal grand-aunts was the mother of the German Chancellor, Theobald von Bethmann Hollweg, (appointed in 1909), which made him a second cousin of the aviator.
Clark's funeral was held in Paris, at the Sainte-Geneviève des Grandes-Carrières church, and she was initially buried in Meaux; however, her remains were later transferred to Nevers.
References Sources Mayors of Boise - Past and Present Idaho State Historical Society Reference Series, Corrected List of Mayors, 1867-1996 Archived January 2, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
With revenues of 1.52 million LP, the church in France had greater fiscal resources than the royal government, whose ordinary revenues in 1289 amounted to 595,318 LP and overall revenues to 1.2 million LP.
In the single match that Frazer played for Somerset, scoring 4 and 14, a second Oxford freshman (and chemist), Guy Blaikie, also played for the county side; unlike Frazer, Blaikie returned to Somerset for further matches in subsequent seasons.
Conviction of Eric Robert Rudolph After Jewell was cleared, the FBI admitted it had no other suspects, and the investigation made little progress until early 1997, when two more bombings took place, at an abortion clinic and a lesbian nightclub, both in the Atlanta area.
This plan was left unfinished, but the work of a second commission that met in Constantinople, assigned to collect all of the general legislations and bring them up to date, was completed; their collection was published as the Codex Theodosianus in 438.
For this latter invention, Menes' memory was dishonoured by the Twenty-fourth Dynasty pharaoh Tefnakht and Plutarch mentions a pillar at Thebes on which was inscribed an imprecation against Menes as the introducer of luxury.
External links Aury Website Aury Biography Louis Michel Aury international, very good multilanguage page Louis Michel Aury (Spanish), very complete Spanish page Louis Michel Aury (French), very complete French page
Patrick Claude Ekeng Ekeng (26 March 1990 – 6 May 2016) was a Cameroonian professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder.
Bett had a poor start to the 2016 season, with a season's best time of 49.31 going into the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.
Biography Goolaerts was born in Lier and grew up in Hallaar, Heist-op-den-Berg, where he became a member of the Balen Bicycle Club.
Kosgei greatly improved his half marathon best at the Berlin Half Marathon, running 59:36 and finished just two seconds behind the winner Bernard Kipyego.
The dangers of the various sporting forms of cycling continue to be an issue, including training on public roadways.
The NFL has implemented rule changes to reduce collisions to the head and has sought to improve football helmet design.
He also wrote a number of songs for voice and piano, setting words by Kazimierz Przerwa-Tetmajer, Adam Asnyk, and others.
Fielding and defense Dodge was a third baseman, but also played shortstop and second base early in his career as a Philadelphia Phillie.
How was killed in an off-piste skiing accident at Val-d'Isère in France on 28 March 2012, having fallen 200 metres (660 ft) to his death.
When Virginia created Kentucky County on December 31, 1776, Harrodstown was designated the county seat.
Timothy "Tip" Tipping (13 February 1958 – 5 February 1993) was an English film and television stuntman and actor.
The local coroner determined that he had hit a wooden sign post located between the ski runs and died of blunt force trauma to the chest.
Career Torrin attended Andrew Jackson High School in Jacksonville, Florida, though he did not start competing in track and field until his junior year.
A review in 2015 came to the conclusion that SIS is highly sensitive in the detection of intrauterine abnormalities in subfertile women, comparable to hysteroscopy.
XX male syndrome is another cause of sterility, wherein the sexual determining factor on the Y chromosome (SRY) is transferred to the X chromosome due to an unequal crossing over.
Non-additive genetic effects have been thought of to be the main reason for reproductive isolation between species.
Professor Carlos Sueldo is the recipient of numerous scientific awards and distinctions from around the world, and has also authored numerous articles in peer-reviewed reproductive medicine journals.
A physical examination will also take place to identify abnormalities such as hirsutism, abdominal masses, infection, cysts or fibroids.
The follicular fluid is delivered to a technician in the IVF laboratory to identify and quantify the ova.
Embryo transfer: the strongest and genetically correct embryos are selected and the decided number will be transferred to the gestational carrier.
In December 1986, Francine Todd informed Edward Straub of her desire to have a child without getting married.
Detailed characterisation of the events occurring in sperm in response to steroid hormones, including the discovery of slow calcium oscillations, now thought to possibly regulate motility.
His career as a research scientist and teacher continued at the National University of Singapore despite his official retirement in 1998, as Emeritus Professor of Gynaecology and Obstetrics.
Her performance earns a special kind of glory." Roger Ebert, writing for his RogerEbert.com website, gave it 3.5 out of 4 stars and commented, "Harris' performance illuminates Natural Selection.
Childless couples were more likely to take vacations, exercise, and overall live a healthier life style than those that have children.
The hospital is interconnected to the Sentara Heart Hospital; however, it is considered a separate institution.
After the additional eggs were fertilized successfully, Rock and Menkin elected to publish their work in a brief report.
Clinical sterility is natural sterility for which treatment of the patient will not result in conception.
Not all women can conceive naturally, leaving them with a need for technologies and research that can help them have children.
The electric current stimulates nearby nerves, resulting in contraction of the pelvic muscles and ejaculation.
Avoiding OHSS typically requires interrupting the pathological sequence, such as avoiding the use of hCG.
In ovulation induction, using clomifene for intended conception by sexual intercourse, however, triggering oocyte release has been shown to decrease pregnancy chances compared to frequent monitoring with LH surge tests.
At the time of Graham's death, the bank claimed to have produced 217 children, none of whom from sperm donated from Graham's initial focus, Nobel Prize winners.
Although the name Gylou is not found on any surviving amulets, Michael is the adversary Gylou encounters most often in medieval Byzantine texts.
In January 1996, Asch testified at a deposition in Tijuana that university employees were responsible for errors that had occurred such as mismatching patients and failing to obtain patient consents.
These steroids can help build larger muscles, but can also lead to side effects such as smaller testicles, erectile dysfunction, and lower sperm count.
The film's initial budget was $2 million, but was reduced to $150,000 due to difficulty in securing funding.
There is evidence suggesting a significant association between vitamin D serum concentrations and the quality of sperm in men, characterized by the sperm's motility and progress motility.
Additional cryoprotectants can be used to increase sperm viability and fertility rates post-freezing.
One of the most prevalent manifestations of this phenomenon is the use of anabolic steroids by some men (particularly if they go to the gym).
This difference may be due to the anti-estrogenic effect which clomifene citrate has on the endometrium, cervical mucus, uterine blood flow, as well as the resulting decrease in the motility of the fallopian tubes and the maturation of the oocytes.
This process includes one to several weeks of hormone injections that stimulate ovaries to ripen multiple eggs.
These embryos are typically destroyed before they divide into two cells; were they left alone to divide, they would still be unviable.
In 1949, Jones made the first description of Luteal Phase Dysfunction, and is credited to be the first in using progesterone to treat women with a history of miscarriages, thus allowing many of them to not only conceive, but to deliver healthy babies.
This practice can be disadvantageous in several ways: It is very costly, can become complicated and may also predispose to several undesirable side effects, such as ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
In an extended profile piece in The Atlantic, reporter Sarah Zhang wrote: The donor children have begun cataloging the ways their own paths have crossed, too.
Culture of the whole ovary or ovarian fragments allows evaluation of various parameters in a controlled way and, therefore, has the potential for more complete reproductive toxicity studies.
A 2008 study concluded that diminished reserve did not affect the quality of oocytes and any reduction in quality in diminished reserve women was age related.
Present at the world's first in vitro fertilisation (IVF) birth, Louise Brown, Webster has continued to develop and further research in the field of IVF.
Consultancy work with the UK division of Ares Serono (1986–1994) also involved work with the Bourn Hallam Group, which Patrick Steptoe and Bob Edwards had set up after Louise Brown's birth.
Sterility is rarely discussed in clinical literature and is often used synonymously with infertility.
The patient then undergoes a typical IVF cycle and is given medication to stimulate egg growth in her ovaries.
Multinucleation: multinucleated blastomeres on day 2 and day 3 is associated to a lower implantation rate.
Chemistry Trengestone, also known as 1,6-didehydro-6-chlororetroprogesterone or as 6-chloro-9β,10α-pregna-1,4,6-triene-3,20-dione, is a synthetic pregnane steroid and a derivative of progesterone and retroprogesterone.
The success rate for is lower than most women expect, requiring, on average, about 10 frozen eggs to be used for each live birth.
Additionally, because this procedure requires a two-week period of hormonal stimulation to encourage egg maturation, it is not optimal for female patients who are diagnosed with hormone-sensitive cancers (such as breast cancer, ovarian cancer, etc.) or those who cannot delay cancer treatment.
The potential candidate Coculture can be an effective treatment for patients who have failed previous IVF cycles or who have poor embryo quality.
The incision is closed with sutures and each sample is assessed under a microscope to confirm the presence of sperm.
Ukraine Ukraine has seen a significant increase in international surrogacy since 2015, when the practice was banned in several Asian countries that had been popular destinations.
The sample obtained after washing is analysed, usually using the PCR technique, to check that there is no viral particle.
Disease affects a much smaller proportion of the population – around one in 5000 individuals, 0.02% – because cells contain many mitochondria and only some carry mutations.
There is no suppression of the ovaries and associated menopausal symptoms and the treatment cycle is completed within a woman's own menstrual cycle.
As of May 2022, Cline has paid over $1.35 million to settle three lawsuits, with three more pending.
Gennadij Raivich is a professor of perinatal neuroscience, specialising in maternal and fetal medicine.
His license has since been revoked and a $5.25 million judgment in damages was awarded to the first plaintiff.
The CIAQ provides cattle farmers with bulls from the Ayrshire, Canadienne, Holstein, Jersey and Brown Swiss milk producing breeds along with other beef breeds.
Humphrey, Susan Gumley, Carl Wood, 1989, ISBN 0-14-012195-1 Clinical in Vitro Fertilization, by Carl Wood (Author), Alan O.
On one breast cancer forum, where the majority of users are women aged 40 to 60, a statistical analysis of posts shows that typing out "husband" is associated with short-time members, while "my DD" (rather than "daughter") is associated with long-time members.
An Oocyte is an egg/ovum that is not fully mature or developed and has not been fertilized; Therefore an oocyte is an undeveloped ovum.
It is usually an exercise in excluding all possible causes before making a diagnosis, however the age of the female partner as well as the duration of infertility are often the most scrutinized characteristics of any infertility case.
Some scientists have questioned the extent of the crisis; the scientific community, however, generally acknowledges increasing male infertility as a men's-health issue.
There is not enough evidence to say that ICSI procedures are safe in females with hepatitis B in regard to vertical transmission to the offspring, since the puncture of the oocyte can potentially avail for vertical transmission to the offspring.
Judgment High Court Lawyers for the two women submitted to the High Court of Justice in September 2002 that, as treatment was already under way, the men should not have the right to stop it.
Cast Production Natural Selection was inspired by Pickering's attempt to depict a woman like his mother and her experience with loneliness, developed while his stepfather was terminally ill with cancer.
POI Primary Ovarian Insufficiency is defined as when ovarian function is stopped prematurely (before the age of 40).
It was there that Wiesner built upon the work of Zondek and Aschheim by examining the production and role of hormones during fertilisation and pregnancy.
When Kavita asks Nandita who it was, Nandita lies and says there was no one on the other end, and it was a blank call.
This extraction must occur before ovulation, as oocytes are too small to be identified once they leave the follicle, and if the appropriate time window is missed the donation cycle will need to be repeated.
The DNA from the ovule and pollen combine to form a diploid, single-cell zygote that will develop into an embryo.
Likewise, NGS is used to detect aneuploidies in the 24 chromosomes and single-gene defects when there is an indication from the carrier parents.
As of 2019, the Prelude Fertility Network of clinics included 23 fertility practices and 36 locations in the U.S.
The use of GnRH agonists for ovarian protection during chemotherapy is suggested to benefit the ability to ovulate, but benefits in terms of e.g.
On January 7, 1991, Todd sued to have Straub be listed as B.M.T.'s father and to force Straub to pay child support for B.M.T.
Matches can occur between half siblings (light yellow), sperm donors and their offspring (dark yellow), or egg donors and their offspring (also dark yellow).
Nandita, who has always regretted giving Neha up, promises to leave the couple alone on one condition – that she take Neha with her.
Her world is turned upside-down when she discovers that her dying husband, Abe, has a 23-year-old son through a sperm bank named Raymond living in Florida.
The procedure took place at Dr Kershaw's Cottage Hospital (now Dr Kershaw's Hospice) in Royton, Oldham, England.
The major parts of the oocyte that are accessed for quality in terms of morphological characteristics are the cumulus cells, zona pellucida, polar body, perivitelline space, and cytoplasm; These are the main parts of the oocyte and are usually assessed by conventional microscopy.
He is a member of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE), and is also a member of the board of Ukrainian Association of Reproductive Medicine.
Success rate According to a Belgian researcher interviewed by Le Vif, the failure rate is the main reason for opposition to cloning, for bioethical reasons due to the mortality of embryos, fetuses and newborn foals.
Their position as a middleman is what makes anonymous sperm donation possible, though many clinics and sperm banks also offer non-anonymous donors, where donor-conceived people may get the identities of their donors.
Ms Evans still had the right to file a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg.
International registration standards Some countries have established laws concerning the registration of donors, others permit states to regulate this or have no regulation.
Occasionally two follicles reach the 10 mm stage at the same time by chance and as both are equally sensitive to FSH both survive and grow in the low FSH environment and thus two ovulations can occur in one cycle possibly leading to non-identical (dizygotic) twins.
The few studies relating male nutrient or food intake and fecundability also suggest that diets rich in red meat, processed meat, tea and caffeine are associated with a lower rate of fecundability.
Changes such as these have significant consequences in regard to pregnancy outcomes; studies suggest cancer patients receiving radiation have a higher chance of experiencing miscarriages or having low birth weight, premature children.
Such antibody-positive individuals may potentially shed virus that remain latent in the body in the semen, infecting the mother and, in turn, the embryo/fetus.
Indeed, it is considered impossible to cease reproduction based on social factors, and fecundity tends to rise after a brief decline.
After PGF2α breaks down the CL, progesterone (a hormone used to maintain pregnancy) starts to drop which allows the cow to start another heat cycle and be ready to breed.
This idea suggests that shorter breeding seasons select a larger clutch size to compensate for the reduced reproduction frequency, thus increasing those species' fecundity.
The central conflict is built on several dichotomies: between the Apollonian and Dionysian, the technocratic Northern Europe and underdeveloped Mediterranean region, and the rationalist idealism of Postchristianity and materialist philosophy of ancient Greece.
Hormonal effects Part of the criteria of PCOS diagnosis includes elevated levels of androgens in the bloodstream or other signs of androgen excess (hyperandrogenism).
It involves combining a woman’s eggs and a man’s sperm in a laboratory to create embryos outside the body.
It appears that reduction of triplets, where each triplet is in its own placenta, to twins results in a lower risk of preterm birth and does not increase the risk of miscarriage.
Other donors were recruited from among the ranks of scientists and academics Graham and his assistant, Paul Smith, considered to be "the future Nobel laureates".
The spermatozoon is selected at higher magnification; the aim of this is to improve the chance of pregnancy.
Vicky eventually reconciles with his wife, after Aanjaneyulu helps her understand the true benefits of sperm donation.
Cross-checking the cervical mucus with another donor semen will confirm whether antibodies are cervical or seminal.
He advocates mandatory artificial insemination in order to improve humanity and make it worthy of modern science.
Przewalski's horse clone In 2020, the first cloned Przewalski's horse was born, the result of a collaboration between San Diego Zoo Global, ViaGen Equine and Revive & Restore.
While some couples base their decision on medical reasons, personal reasons may also be a fundamental deciding factor.
In vitro fertilization can be a series of treatments that involves the fertilization of a mature egg with a sperm in a laboratory.
These are in alliance with the West Midlands Regional Genetics Service, which is also based at the hospital.
The result is a reduction in the number of fetuses to a number that is more safe for the mother and the remaining fetuses or more compatible with socio-economic constraints on the caregivers.
To obtain the sample, a sterile plastic recipient is put directly inside, always no more than one hour before being studied.
They argue that although Gupta's phylogenetic methods were likely solid, the proposed name changes are too sweeping to be practically adopted, citing some principles of the Code such as "name stability".
The Institute's American activities involve a large donor egg program, a group of sperm banks and egg banks, preimplantation genetics testing centers, and oocyte cryopreservation via vitrification in addition to more conventional IVF, infertility, and genetic services.
During that same year the company acquired EnsEyers, a supplier of orthokeratology and scleral contact lenses.
Published data show that injury to major blood vessels is practically impossible and there are very few other minor complications when performed in the right manner.
Single or sequential medium are equally effective for the culture of human embryos to the blastocyst stage.
The proposed complaint cites negligence, constructive fraud, battery, breach of contract, breach of express warranty, and negligent hiring or retention as to defendant and reproductive endocrinology associates.
His performers are competent - Chaudhary, big on lipstick and histrionics is as excellent as Kajol - but his writing is flawed.
On the other hand, the exact thawing temperature seems to have only minor effect on sperm viability, acrosomal status, ATP content, and DNA.
The procedure results in a decrease in plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) and in pulsations as well as a periodic drop in inhibin B levels.
A total of 78 species were removed from Mycoplasma, creating five new genera and a number of higher taxonomic levels.
Same-sex procreation would remove the need for lesbian and gay couples to rely on a third party donation of a sperm or an egg for reproduction.
However, there is no clear tendency in recent publications to a general increase in predictive value of morphological features.
The collection and freezing of these samples allows for the distribution of gametes among populations.
Thus a child can have a genetic and social (non-genetic, non-biological) father, and a genetic, gestational, and social (non-biological) mother, and any combinations thereof.
Effects in males FSH stimulates primary spermatocytes to undergo the first division of meiosis, to form secondary spermatocytes.
Advantages A study of 12,377 embryo cultures showed that endometrial coculture is significantly better than sequential culture media; the rates (fraction) reaching blastocyst stage were 56% versus 46% in the coculture versus the sequential system, respectively, with own oocytes.
Time-lapse embryo imaging is an emerging non-invasive embryo selection technique used in reproductive biology.
Techniques Culture of embryos can either be performed in an artificial culture medium or in an autologous endometrial coculture (on top of a layer of cells from the woman's own uterine lining).
Dr Leeanda Wilton, Melbourne IVF, is an international leader in the field of pre-implantation genetic testing A/Prof Kate Stern, Melbourne IVF, lead the team that achieved the world’s first pregnancy from ovarian tissue grafted in the anterior abdominal wall of a woman.
In contrast, anovulation usually manifests itself as irregularity of menstrual periods, that is, unpredictable variability of intervals, duration, or bleeding.
There has been, however, an increasing number of cases in Israel in which women who had not been in a relationship with the deceased, volunteered and were allowed to carry their child, often following a public call-up by the deceased's parents.
In 1953, while working as a research associate in the university's Department of Urology, Sherman refined a process that had been developed in 1949 by A.S.
For those at the ministry of agriculture, the then new technique of artificial insemination appeared to be an economical and quick method to improve the province's herds, lower production costs and increase revenues.
He was well aware that injected hCG could trigger a false positive on a pregnancy test, but thought that the dosages he administered were too low to have that effect.
Fertiloscopy, a relatively new surgical technique used for early diagnosis (and immediate treatment).
Potential damage to otherwise viable embryos is also reduced due to minimized fluctuation of optimal culture conditions .
One way it has done this is through engagement with programmes on local and national media for example a recent programme on BBC Asian Network.
From 2011 to 2013, Martins da Silva was a Scottish Clinical Research Excellence Development Scheme (SCREDS) Clinical Lecturer in reproductive medicine at the University of Dundee School of Medicine.
See also Sperm bank Gene bank Artificial insemination Genetic counseling Genetic testing New eugenics Safe upper age limit for women donating ova Eugenics Infertility Surrogacy Commercial surrogacy Assisted reproduction Designer babies == References ==
Watrelot also recommends the use of a special type of scope with a 30-degree chamfered end which makes it possible to examine the inside of the fallopian tubes and visualise the depths of the folds under 100 fold magnification, so that mucosal damage can be assessed.
However, he was cleared of a further eight counts of sexual assault and sexual assault by digital penetration because the jury was unable to reach a verdict.
At the 27th Independent Spirit Awards, it earned two nominations: Best First Feature and Best Female Lead (for Harris).
The chart should show low temperatures before ovulation in the follicular phase, and higher ones after ovulation in the luteal phase.
This avails for sexual intercourse or intrauterine insemination (IUI) to conveniently be scheduled at ovulation, the most likely time to achieve pregnancy.
These surgical techniques may also be utilized as a form of permanent contraception referred to as sterilization.
"Inhibition of Posttraumatic Microglial Proliferation in a Genetic Model of Macrophage Colony‐Stimulating Factor Deficiency in the Mouse." European Journal of Neuroscience 6.10 (1994): 1615–1618.
In addition, whereas other progestogens are antigonadotropic and inhibit ovulation, dydrogesterone is neither antigonadotropic nor progonadotropic and does not affect ovulation, and trengestone appears to be progonadotropic and can be used to induce ovulation.
As part of the pharmacologic treatment of paraphilic disorders in sexual offenders or men with a high risk of sexual offending.
A former psychotherapist, in 2009, at the age of 44, she realized that she would never be a mother and set up a network of childless women aged 35 and over, named Gateway Women.
The release of details about the pregnancy and birth was criticised when different information was reported by different news companies.
In 2010, two former patients of Barwin brought lawsuits against him alleging that he had inseminated them with the wrong sperm.
Trengestone is a progestin, or a synthetic progestogen, and hence is an agonist of the progesterone receptor, the biological target of progestogens like progesterone.
He was born in New Zealand and is a qualified doctor in Germany; although he has taught in the UK he has never practised there.
On the issue of firearms, Simone Collins has described herself as "very pro-gun." Personal lives Malcolm is the great-grandson of Carr Collins Sr., founder of the Fidelity Union Life Insurance Company, and grandson of James M.
Blocked fallopian tubes can be a factor of infertility in which the fallopian tubes will not allow the egg and sperm to meet.
Diagnosis If both partners are young and healthy and have been trying to conceive for one year without success, a visit to a physician or women's health nurse practitioner (WHNP) could help to highlight potential medical problems earlier rather than later.
Sentara Norfolk General Hospital (SNGH) is a large academic hospital, which serves as the primary teaching institution for the adjacent Eastern Virginia Medical School.
Deer mouse embryos survive in the uterus of the white-footed mouse, but the reciprocal transfer fails.
Among these tests, blood tests are common and may include serologies to detect infections such as hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV), HIV, syphilis, and rubella.
There was insufficient evidence to support routine cryopreservation and insufficient evidence for the relative merits of intravenous albumin versus cryopreservation.
Reception Critical reception Deccan Chronicle gave 2 out of 5 stars stating "Naruda Donaruda is a fresh subject which could have been made much better.
Also in Spain it is necessary to have a signed consent from the deceased person and the wife can only use the sample in a period of 12 months.
In vanishing twin pregnancies with a second gestational sac with a dead fetus, first trimester screening should be based solely on the maternal age and the nuchal translucency scan as biomarkers are significantly altered in these cases.
Due to changes in technology and the introduction of the commercially available home DNA tests, the ability of Donor Sibling Registry to be an effective use of resources may be outdated.
One benefit of this procedure is that no incisions are required and it can be completed in a clinic office.
In fiction Medical dramas set in a fertility clinic include Inconceivable, which ran for two episodes in 2005 before being cancelled, and The Family Man, a British series in three parts.
They were helped by the Institute of Life in Athens, Greece and had obtained approval from the Greek National Authority of Assisted Reproduction.
Although not ideal for people who are able to and wanting to bear children, RFA still poses as an alternative successful technique to reducing the volume of fibroids.
Achievements Main achievements of the institute in the area of research have influenced and significantly improved the reproductively of cattle, buffalo and sheep through: Improving reproductive potentials of farm animals.
Also, ethical issues of human enhancement arise when reproductive technology has evolved to be a potential technology for not only reproductively inhibited people but even for otherwise re-productively healthy people.
Four healthy Bactrian camels were born without any complications out of the ten transferred embryos.
This showed it was possible to mix a sperm and an egg outside a female reproductive system and create a healthy embryo.
Spiritual recourse (prayer for fecundity, or alternately, submission to the will of a deity or power) Realignment of social relationships, including divorce, polygamy, adultery, or promiscuity.
Indications ZIFT has been used in infertility situations where at least one of the fallopian tubes is normal and other treatments have failed; however, the need for two interventions and the fact that IVF results are equal or better (as of 2004), leaves few indications for this procedure.
The most common cause of female infertility is abnormal ovulation, usually manifested by scanty or absent menstrual periods.
Bioethical issues Gamete intrafallopian transfer is not technically in vitro fertilisation because with GIFT, fertilisation takes place inside the body, not on a petri dish.
For example, intrauterine pathology may be assessed by utilizing techniques such as hysteroscopy to identify complications for reproductive surgical interventions.
Barad, introduced androgen supplementation by way of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), to improve in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcomes in women with diminished ovarian reserve in 2005.
Between 60 and 85% of women, mostly with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), ovulate successfully in response to clomiphene with a cumulative pregnancy rate of 30 to 40%.
Fertility preservation is a key part of discussing cancer treatment in reproductive-age patients who are at risk of infertility after therapy: in one study, 70% of female cancer patients were concerned about fertility at the time of diagnosis, and 50% desired to have children after treatment.
On 1 November 2016, former patients of Barwin brought a class action against Barwin on behalf of his former patients and the children that Barwin helped conceive at his clinic, the Broadview Fertility Clinic.
Reproductive endocrinology was not yet a subspecialty; in fact, she and her husband's accomplishments have contributed to the successful reproductive endocrinology programs that are offered at Johns Hopkins.
Private registries Sperm banks keep their own records of sperm donors and recipients, although there may not be any obligation to save them unless there is non-anonymous sperm donation, let alone any obligation to reveal them for donor conceived people who want to know about their genetic history.
In 1997, Barwin was appointed to the Order of Canada for having a "profound impact on both the biological and psycho-social aspects of women's reproductive health." In 2009, he was awarded the Honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Carleton University.
The map shows the current and former distribution area and the approximate seasonal spread of the screw-worm fly.
Bioethics Horse cloning, like that of other animal species, raises bioethical issues, since it involves a high mortality rate of embryos, fetuses and young foals.
The risk of OHSS is smaller when using GnRH antagonist protocol instead of GnRH agonist protocol for suppression of ovulation during ovarian hyperstimulation.
Embryos from rescued in vitro-matured metaphase II (IVM-MII) oocytes show significantly higher fertilization rates and more blastomeres per embryo compared with those from arrested metaphase I (MI) oocytes (58.5% vs.
Posthumous sperm retrieval (PSR) is a procedure in which spermatozoa are collected from the testes of a human corpse after brain death.
She worked in the state laboratories of Massachusetts for a year and then applied for a research position with John Rock, a fertility doctor, at the Free Hospital for Women (now part of Brigham and Women's Hospital) in Boston.
Society and culture There are a variety of social stigmas that surround male infertility throughout the world.
Gupta's proposed taxonomy, as expected, moved the medically important "pneumoniae" group out of Mycoplasma into its own genus.
Another meta-analysis in 2022, again led by Hagai Levine, reported that sperm concentration declined by 53.3 percent and sperm count by 56.3 percent in Western countries (1973-2015), and by 27.6 and 24.7 percent respectively, in non-Western countries (1986-2018).
The FDA informed clinics that they considered the cytoplasmic transfer technique as a new treatment, and, as such, it would require an Investigational New Drug (IND) application.
When calculating these costs, the costs of the hotel, travel, and hospital stay may also be considered in addition to the medical treatment.
Currently, EFI remains the only validated classification system that predicts pregnancy outcomes for patients following laparoscopy for endometriosis.
In order to achieve this public demand for milk, dairy farmers needed to change their breeding routines.
Ingredients polymer type A (hydroxyethyl cellulose) glycerin purified water See also Fallopian tube obstruction Chromopertubation Gynecologic ultrasonography == References ==
The sperm is mixed to create a volume of 10 ml, sufficient to fill the uterine cavity, pass through the interstitial part of the tubes and the ampulla, finally reaching the peritoneal cavity and the Pouch of Douglas where it would be mixed with the peritoneal and follicular fluid.
A few live births have already been made by taking small early tertiary follicles, letting them mature in vitro and subsequently fertilizing them.
Embryo Ranking Intelligent Classification Algorithm (ERICA) is a deep learning AI software designed to assist embryologists and clinicians during the embryo selection process leading to embryo transfer, a critical step of in vitro fertilisation treatments (IVF).
IVF and other ART techniques, including cloning via interspecies somatic cell nuclear transfer (iSCNT), are also used in attempts to increase the numbers of endangered or vulnerable species, such as Northern white rhinos, cheetahs, and sturgeons.
The cervix is cleaned with an antiseptic and injected with a local anesthetic to minimize discomfort and pain.
Feskov is one of the most well-known reproductive technology and surrogacy specialists in Ukraine, and has over 100 academic publications.
But it has refused to say whether he was suspended ahead of the court case or if his role in maternal medicine had been restricted".
Wood was an invited speaker at over 90 national and international meetings, and wrote 23 books, 59 chapters and 400 papers in refereed medical and scientific journals.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 57 out of 100, based on 14 critics, indicating "mixed or average" reviews.
Education Born in Alchevsk, Ukraine, Feskov was an intern in obstetrics and gynecology at the 1st City Clinical Hospital in Kharkiv, Ukraine.
Lewis Terman: Creator of the IQ test, and member of the eugenic group, the Human Betterment Foundation.
Former president Donald Trump, running in 2024 for a second term as president, stated that access to IVF and fertility treatments should remain legal.
These discussions led the LRHRR created an analysis and action plan of policies most affecting healthcare for Latinas.
His practices spawned early ideologies of "white manhood", which stemmed from his belief that he could "help a new, ideal man emerge".
Clergy opposed to the regime or holding views the Nazis found suspect (for instance pacifism) were particularly targeted, with the false charge of homosexual conduct serving to conceal the real political cause of their prosecution.
In part due to misinformation related to abortion, in some states, abortion has been heavily criminalized, including becoming classified as a felony that could carry heavy jail time.
The controversies caused the Republican Party to look for ways to prevent its election candidates from making similar comments about rape.
The 1977 National Women's Conference included women from each state in the United States and developed a National Plan of Action, mirroring many of the points of the World Plan of Action.
Many Greeks believed in panpsychism (that all things have an individual soul), while others believed that individuals emanate from a World soul, made of a different substance; and it is possible that Plato believed in elements of both.
Oceania Australia In 2010, a 58-year-old repeat child sex offender who had been subject to chemical castration was accused of inappropriately touching and kissing a seven-year-old young girl.
Legacy This action was a landmark moment in the Irish women's movement: it helped break the "taboo against discussing contraceptive practice." It also made a "powerful statement" which raised awareness of the issue surrounding women and contraception.
Until 1970, it is estimated that several thousand people, predominantly women, were sterilized based on psychiatric evaluations in Switzerland.
New South Wales 150-metre exclusion zone around clinics under the Public Health Amendment (Safe Access to Reproductive Health Clinics) Act 2018.
Autoimmune disorders Although originally designed as a chemotherapy drug, in lower doses methotrexate is a generally safe and well-tolerated drug in the treatment of certain autoimmune diseases.
In April 2012, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker signed into law a bill requiring doctors who prescribe the medical abortion pill to have three meetings with patients or be subject to felony charges.
She has been recognized in the BBC's list of 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world for 2019.
Police processed a search warrant to search Hernandez and Sanchez's apartment which was found to have marijuana.
The adviser mistakenly maintains that the pregnancy is fraught with substantial risks for the woman, and she consequently decides to undergo an abortion.
Its resulting Programme of Action is the steering document for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
(2005) found that between 1950 and 2004, the rates of non-paternity events published in scientific journals ranged from 0.8% to 30% with a median of 3.7%.
The second sentence of Erkola's comment is frequently cited in discussions, reports and papers on abortion doping.
Another reason why the issue raised concerns of public policy was that the judicial system would have to define the proper behaviour of a pregnant woman, a so-called "reasonable pregnant woman" test.
The fetus reportedly survived for three hours after the surgery, while Carder survived two days before her death.
Contemporary abortion law allows the procedure to be done electively if a woman's pregnancy had not exceeded its 18th week.
Sperm donation is an exception, with a birth defect rate of almost a fifth compared to the general population.
It has been suggested by Belanger (2002) that sex-selective abortion may have positive effects on the mother choosing to abort the female fetus.
According to a study done in Sub-Saharan Africa, "about 13% of pregnancies end up in abortions and 97% of these are unsafe" (Bain, 2021).
A court may authorize for a surrogate to provide consent to the sterilization or abortion of another person, after the surrogate petitions the court, provides supporting documents on the intent of the patient, gives notice to all relevant parties, and a hearing is conducted to review the matter.
This treatment was criticized by Justice Brennan in a dissent in which he argued that physical gender differences should not lead to unequal compensation, and that gender cases should be decided using the strict scrutiny standard.
Plot The movie tells the story of a middle aged Muslim woman Gazala (Shabana Azmi), who is ill-treated by her husband and sent back to her parents’ home, just because she is unable to give birth to a son.
Public confusion The impact of abortion misinformation is wide-reaching, influencing individuals across the spectrum of beliefs about abortion.
The Outer House of the Court of Session had to decide if artificial insemination could constitute adultery.
Morton believed that cranial capacity determined intellectual ability, and he used his craniometric evidence in conjunction with his analysis of anthropological literature then available to argue in favor of a racial hierarchy which put Caucasians on the top rung and Africans on the bottom.
He states that rape may instead be a non-adaptive by-product of other evolved mechanisms, such as desire for sexual variety and for sex without investment, sensitivity to sexual opportunities, and a general capacity for physical aggression.
The geographical locations of abortion facilities and accessibility impact the general demand of abortion by reducing search costs, travel time, and travel expenses.
Providers and clients in several countries widely approve of medical abortion as it can be done privately, is more accessible and affordable than other methods, and is considered safe and painless.
Biography Nancy Hernandez, born in California about 1945, was married to Tony Hernandez in 1962 at the age of seventeen.
torture of terrorist suspects is a tool to maintain supremacy just as violence has been used to maintain white supremacy.
In 1955, 16.5% of Puerto Rican women of childbearing age had been sterilized, this jumped to 34% in 1965.
In the early 1970s, the first specialised abortion clinics emerged, such as in Arnhem (Mildredhuis, 1971) and Heemstede (Bloemenhove Clinic, 1973).
These regulations are but one example of the detailed fabric of abortion legislation and regulation that has evolved since the Supreme Court's decision to legalize abortion in its 1973 Roe v.
In 1982, Susan Brooks, Patricia Allen, and Patricia Dixon were all part-time cashiers at Safeway who became pregnant.
Personhood in law Ecclesiastical courts Following the decline of the Western Roman Empire and the adoption of Christianity as the Roman state religion, ecclesiastical courts held wide jurisdiction throughout Europe.
While many countries permit voluntary sterilization for contraceptive purposes, some permit it only for medical or eugenic purposes.
In 1989, the oldest decreței would have been 22 years old, in the general age range of most revolutionaries.
During the final days of the 2008 presidential campaign, an article came out explaining that the "National Jewish Democratic Council is sending out more than 350,000 mailers to Jewish households in key swing states, re-asserting the Democratic nominees stance on a number of issues".
Notable past and present advisors include Nobel Peace Prize laureate Norman Borlaug, former Governor of Michigan William Milliken, originator of the "ecological footprint" concept William E.
The organization viewed health care as part of a community based approach that integrated health and social services holistically and formed diverse coalitions to discuss religious and cultural norms of Latinas and their effect on available healthcare.
By contrast, the phrase abortion industry is common in political commentary and advocacy (especially among anti-abortion groups) to characterise providers and networks in critical terms.
The definition is somewhat broader in the Australian Capital Territory, and comparably broad to English law in Tasmania and South Australia.
This law came into effect on 9 June 2010; therefore in Poland "anyone guilty of raping a child under the age of 15 can now be forced to submit to chemical and psychological therapy to reduce sex drive at the end of a prison term".
Abortion Access Front (formerly Lady Parts Justice League) is a reproductive rights non-profit organization and production company founded by Lizz Winstead in 2015.
He was eventually appointed as an expert eugenics agent to the Committee on Immigration and Naturalization (the 1924 law applied national-origin quotas on immigrants, which stopped the large Italian and Russian influx of the early 1900s).
Since then, the organization has expanded to include offices in Nashville, Tennessee; Washington, D.C.; and Denver, Colorado.
In contrast to decadal nationwide census data, small non-random sample surveys report higher child sex ratios in India.
Adoption laws differ state by state; adoption agencies, counselors, and lawyers can be used to provide information to the birth parents and adoptive parents about this process.
1969 – The New Mexico legislature passed a law that made it a felony for anyone to provide a woman with an abortion unless it was needed to save her life, or because her pregnancy was a result of rape or incest.
In France, ART is subsidized in full by national health insurance for women up to age 43, with limits of 4 attempts at IVF and 6 at artificial insemination.
Tubal ligation and vasectomy are the only procedures which may be performed for the primary purpose of sterilization.
The Sterns, not wanting to risk Mary Beth's life, agreed to let her see the baby for an additional day or two.
The Prince Edward Island Reproductive Rights Organization (PRRO) is a special interest group advocating to have abortions performed in Prince Edward Island (PEI).
The Inner House of the Court of Session reversed the decision, saying that the wife was entitled to damages for the effects of pregnancy, and the benefits associated with parenthood were not required to be balanced against the loss.
Under European law, a fetus is generally regarded as an in utero part of the mother and thus its rights are held by the mother.
Her research has been published in Routledge, Palgrave, MacMillan, Matatu, Kujenga Amani, and by the African Women's Development Fund, addressing themes such as conflict transformation, citizen journalism, digital activism, mental health policy, LGBTQ+ rights and collective wellbeing in Africa.
Therefore, it is important for health care providers to refer individuals they are unsure about to a facility where a definitive diagnosis can be made and care can be provided.
However, some studies have suggested that assisted reproductive technology is associated with an increased risk of birth defects.
Finally, if the procedure is performed and results in a birth, there are several issues involving the legal rights of the child and its mother.
The Expert Group Meeting (EGM): prevention of violence against women and girls was convened as part of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women's multi-year programme of work for 2010–2014.
The imbalance was greater in the "selling states", where the excess of women over men was 300 per thousand.
Results The following table details the results by county: Impact on abortion Following the US Supreme Court's decision in Dobbs v.
"Findings and Lessons Learned From Strengthening the Provision of Voluntary Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptives With Postabortion Care in Guinea".
The provisions on the entry into force of the Act and its effect on other laws, in particular the repeal of the previous restrictions on the permissibility of abortion, were contained in Section 5.
Additionally, some defendants have argued that the tort is subject to fraudulent claims, as proof of the claim that the plaintiffs would have aborted an abnormal fetus would often come in the form of the plaintiff's retrospective and subjective testimony.
These statements of intent from church authorities have sometimes led American Catholic voters to vote for candidates who wish to ban abortion, rather than candidates who support abortion rights alongside Catholic Church teachings on war, health care, or immigration.
Following publication of the Act the Government of India published updated "MTP Rules," to carry out the various provisions of the Act.
It is used to treat uterine atony, a condition where the uterus lacks muscle tone and is soft to the touch instead of firm.
The rapporteur, minister Marco Aurélio Mello, voted in favor of decriminalization of abortions involving anencephalic fetuses.
There are organizations such as the Yellowhammer Fund which help people seeking an abortion by assisting with payments and providing logistical support.
History The league was initially founded during the "Knowlton trial" of Annie Besant and Charles Bradlaugh in July 1877.
In the UK, abortions after 24 weeks' gestational age are only legal to protect the mother's physical or mental health, or if the fetus is "seriously handicapped" due to "physical or mental abnormalities".
Ending a pregnancy before the fetus began movement, or "post-quickening" was only a wrongdoing, not a crime.
With a prediction of 85.7 million climate migrants in sub-Saharan Africa by 2050, Africa faces one of the worst refugee crisis of the generation.
Combined oral contraceptives reduce the risk of ovarian cancer and endometrial cancer and do not change the risk of breast cancer.
The main topics discussed on the site include access to contraception, emergency contraception, testing for sexually transmitted diseases, medications, menstrual products, gynecologists, pregnancy, abortion, counseling services, women's resources and LGBTQ resources.
Medical training Abortion misinformation results in physicians getting less opportunities or having less incentives to practice abortion care, resulting in fewer physicians qualifying for performing procedural abortions.
Senate Human Rights Subcommittee, drafted the bill in response to accounts of pregnant women subjected to illegal shackling around their midsections and other abusive practices in Georgia prisons.
Abortion in Denmark was fully legalized on 1 October 1973, allowing abortion to be done electively if a woman's pregnancy had not exceeded its 12th week.
For purposes of the Comstock Act, the term indecent is defined in the text as including "matter of a character tending to incite arson, murder, or assassination".
1219 is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision on employer discrimination of pregnant employees.
Abortions are completely banned in the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua, and only allowed in certain restricted circumstances in most other Latin American nations.
See also Canadian labour law List of Supreme Court of Canada cases References External links Full text of Supreme Court of Canada decision at LexUM and CanLII
The association suggested that the issue be "tackled quite differently, so that women and men free themselves and reject the weight of [such] traditions." References External links ANCIC quarterly bulletin "Interruption volontaire de grossesse" [Voluntary interruption of pregnancy : legal status].
It has a liaison office in Geneva and 15 affiliates in Europe, Canada, Japan, New Zealand and the US.
Efrat activists primarily raise funds to relieve the "financial and social pressures" on pregnant women so that they will not terminate their pregnancies.
Decriminalization not only ensured access to safe abortion procedures but also aligned Denmark with evolving international standards on reproductive rights.
It is a crime," and, "These various distinctions about rape don't make too much sense to me." Other controversial statements Controversial comments about rape and abortion also came from other Republican legislators and legislative candidates.
Surgical castrations performed from the 19th century had serious physical and psychological consequences, particularly on libido (sexuality).
As of 2016 the percentage is higher than the national average in Southern Italy (83.5%) and Sicily and Sardinia (77.7%), and lower in Central (70.1%) and Northern Italy (63.9%).
The principle that sustains compulsory vaccination is broad enough to cover cutting the Fallopian tubes.
In 1991, during an international conference in Amsterdam titled "Abortion Matters", ANCIC co-founded the International Federation of Abortion and Contraception Professionals (Fédération Internationale des Associés Professionels de l'Avortement et de la Contraception or FIAPAC).
These efforts are working toward improving reproductive and newborn health through the use of contraceptives.
Debate in the 19th and 20th centuries Scholars in the 19th and 20th centuries gave the historical basis of the "right of first night" a good deal of attention.
For example, Delaware, which is generally supportive of abortion rights, saw 44% of residents obtain their abortions in neighboring states.
She contends that this criminalization predominantly targets low-income women, Black, and Latina women by design, as these populations were never included in the vision of pro-choice movements, which center white middle-class women.
Some forms were found from state judiciary links for what is called an "Interstate Adoption Putative Father Registry" form and a .pdf with some information PDF New Hampshire Information - New Hampshire Probate Court Administrative Office.
Several state supreme courts have ruled that sections (a) through (c) are not threatened by Roe, but, by the time it was overturned by the Supreme Court, no court had ever addressed whether Roe could survive the suggested triggering of its collapse clause by section (d).
The woman said, "I have no regrets, I would do it again." In January 2019, a father lost his claim for damages from IVF Hammersmith.
Law in South Africa In South Africa, the Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1996 prohibits anyone from "preventing the lawful termination of a pregnancy" or "obstructing access to a facility for the termination of a pregnancy", imposing a penalty of up to ten years' imprisonment.
High Court decision Judiciary representation Legislative representation Executive representation Amici curiae See also ADPF 442 (ongoing case concerning decriminalization of abortions up to 12 weeks of pregnancy) Abortion law Abortion in Brazil == References ==
Before Crane's invention, women would have to go to a doctor and have their urine tested in a lab to determine if they were pregnant.
Types of cancers it is used for include breast cancer, leukemia, lung cancer, lymphoma, gestational trophoblastic disease, and osteosarcoma.
Progress and setbacks (1920s–1940s) Widespread acceptance Following the successful opening of the CRB in 1923, public discussion of contraception became more commonplace, and the term "birth control" became firmly established in the nation's vernacular.
Illegal abortions had the high possibility of harming a woman's reproductive organs and therefore posed a threat for future pregnancy and repopulation.
In Aargau, comprehensive analysis of psychiatric files at the Königsfelden Cantonal Healing and Care Institution revealed 80 female sterilizations between 1892 and 1945, with 58% of affected women being married and most sterilizations performed for social and eugenic reasons.
Despite the protests of the Catholic Church, abortion in Poland was allowed on social grounds in 1956 by the Communist government.
Paternity fraud is distinct from other, unintentional misattribution, which may arise from simple error, an accident such as a mix-up during fertility treatment, or a sexual assault.
Knowlton's book was reprinted in 1877 in England by Charles Bradlaugh and Annie Besant, with the goal of challenging Britain's obscenity laws.
Proponents also argue that access to disability-selective abortions is essential to protecting women's bodily autonomy.
He served as the superintendent of the Eugenics Record Office from its inception in 1910 to its closure in 1939, and was among the most active individuals influencing American eugenics policy, especially compulsory sterilization legislation.
The efforts of the free love movement were not successful and at the beginning of the 20th century, federal and state governments began to enforce the Comstock laws more rigorously.
In some cases, bishops have stated that the politicians should refrain from receiving communion; in others, the possibility of excommunication has been suggested.
doi:10.17176/20220309-120935-0 "Abortion and 'conscientious objection' in South Africa: The need for regulation", in E.
Atkins stated that SCA 10 would codify abortion and contraception protections that already existed in California state law.
Education Nabaneh was born in the Gambia and earned her Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from the University of The Gambia in 2012.
The women argued they had not properly consented to sterilisation due to not being informed of the contents of the consent form, not understanding the medical staff, or coercion by being told their caesareans would not be performed unless they consented to the sterilisation.
TFMR made a submission calling for a repeal of the Eighth Amendment and the removal of abortion from criminal law.
A 2018 suicide prompted the Vermont legislature to pass a waiting period bill, but it was vetoed by governor Phil Scott in June, 2019.
Gallup polling from 1996 to 2021 consistently reveals that when asked the question, "Do you think abortions should be legal under any circumstances, legal only under certain circumstances, or illegal in all circumstances?", Americans repeatedly answer "legal only under certain circumstances".
However, critics warn it may medicalize a social problem—the difficulty of balancing career and family—and create pressure for women to use this technology.
While defending the evolutionary psychology theory of rape against its more vehement critics, Vandermassen (2010) provides a critique of some aspects of the view.
The centralized archive of data allowed the Reich Central Office to coordinate the persecution and punishment of homosexuals.
See also Surrogacy legal issues Surrogacy laws in the United States References Further reading Chesler, Phyllis.
It sought to "condemn those officials of the Chinese Communist Party, the Government of the People's Republic of China, and other persons who are involved in the enforcement of forced abortions by preventing such persons from entering or remaining in the United States".
The abortion-rights movement became a controversial topic in the United States regarding abortion and reproduction.
Until such language becomes the basis for laws that specify penalties for abortion, the issue is not even before the court, of whether or not such language conflicts with Roe, and if so, which should be struck down.
A study in Lesotho has also revealed that teenaged girls face an additional 11% risk of being HIV-positive following a drought crisis.
Rumours of abortion doping continued throughout the 1970s and 1980s, predominately aimed at East German athletes.
Some paternity laws assign full parental responsibility to fathers even in cases of women lying about contraception, using deceit (such as oral sex followed by self-artificial insemination) or statutory rape by a woman (Hermesmann v.
Their model suggested that generally only men with a future reproductive value of one-tenth or less of a typical 25-year-old man would have a net positive cost/benefit fitness ratio from committing rape.
On 4 August 2010 a Moscow court ruled that a single man who applied for gestational surrogacy (using donor eggs) could be registered as the only parent of his son, becoming the first man in Russia to defend his right to become a father through court proceedings.
The office's collection of records on suspected and convicted homosexuals, which is believed to number about 100,000, was likely destroyed in the last days of the war.
Some critics say that the act protects employees in a way that is too focused on biology, and does not protect the social aspects of motherhood.
The author argues that these narratives enabled women writers to critique social conditions without adopting explicit political positions.
The guardian may not provide substituted consent for the incompetent person, unless the court determines the "individual is competent to exercise the right under some but not all circumstances." In 2001, the Wisconsin Supreme Court, in State v.
Water and food uncertainty needed to be addressed as women in many areas devoted the majority of their time into unpaid labors to maintain their families.
When a mother commits neonaticide, killing an infant younger than 24 hours old, the child's birth being the result of rape is a main cause, although other psychological and situational factors are generally present.
The chemical castration punishment carried by specifically appointed physician in central government-run or local government-run hospital, and witnessed by witnesses from Attorney General, Ministry of Law and Human Rights, Ministry of Social Affairs, and Ministry of Health.
The coroner reporting on the 1998 Omagh bombing recommended that the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland should prosecute for two counts of child destruction as well as 29 of murder, as one of the people killed was 34 weeks pregnant with twins.
The Supreme Court of California's 1982 decision, in turn, was based on the landmark California Court of Appeal decision in Curlender v.
Historians have estimated from 1909 to 1963, some 20,000 people were sterilized in California asylums and hospitals.
states, although 38 states also recognize the fetus or "unborn child" as a crime victim, at least for purposes of homicide or feticide.
Although contraception was not fully legalized in Canada until 1969, Palmer was the only person to be prosecuted for providing information about birth control.
This implied that the sex disparity of the Chinese newborns was likely exaggerated significantly in previous analyses.
In 2005, Líderes Campesinas participated in a project with the Guttmacher Institute to improve Latinas' access to healthcare and information.
Violence against women Rape In January 2011, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act moved to change how rape is treated when used to determine whether abortions qualify for Medicaid funding.
The International Women's Year Tribune was also organized by the conference committee and attended by 4,000 women in 1975.
Citing Catholic documents and scientific studies, they reasoned that "the RH Bill is pro-life, pro-women, pro-poor, pro-youth, and pro-informed choice".
Weber went on to retire on 30 September 2023, leaving the presidency of the court to minister Barroso.
Putative Father Registry - Wyoming Putative Father Registry Form 13 states with a putative registry and no registration forms publicly posted online: Delaware - The State of Delaware Office of Vital Statistics website has no mention of a putative father registry.
In 1999, the Unborn Victims of Violence Act was introduced into United States Congress which defines violent assault committed against pregnant women as being a crime against two victims: the woman and the fetus she carries.
Youth and Non-Violence in Africa’s Fragile Contexts edited by Akin Iwilade and Tarila Marclint Ebiede.
WGNRR was an active participant in the International Conference "Reinforcing Reproductive Rights", held in Madras, India, in 1993.
In theory, ART can solve almost all reproductive problems, except for severe pathology or the absence of a uterus (or womb), using specific gamete or embryo donation techniques.
The women also argued that their rights to equality and freedom from discrimination were violated because the sterilisation was as a result of their HIV status.
Since eunuchs lacked family of their own and were unable to have children, they were considered highly thrustworthy, and used as harem guards, as guards at mosques and holy sites, as administrators and family stewards.
The Human Life Amendment is the name of multiple proposals to amend the United States Constitution that would have the effect of overturning the Supreme Court 1973 decision Roe v.
By some counts, at least 25% of Native American women between the ages of 15 and 44 were sterilized during the most intensive period.
Countries that result from the merger of states where abortion on request was legal at the moment of unification show the year when it became legal across the whole national territory (e.g., Germany, Vietnam).
Researchers and feminist movements like Ni una menos echo these warnings regarding women's reproductive rights in Latin America.
Background The donor, a gay man whose identity remains anonymous, had been friends with the lesbian couple to whom he donated sperm in 2006.
Between 1970 and 1976, Indian Health Services sterilized between 25 and 42 percent of women of reproductive age who came in seeking healthcare services.
The court decided that the first of these questions can be sidestepped by means of the second question.
Seyer), and fraud (the mother used the father's sperm to become pregnant without his knowledge or consent).
On the subject of immigration, the proposal does not affect existing immigration laws, and does not change state requirements to vote, contrary to false claims that the proposal would make it easier for undocumented immigrants to vote.
The Court held that all three women had not given their informed consent to be sterilised due to the circumstances in which their consent had been obtained, including that they were all in varying degrees of labour at the time.
Nebraska Initiative 439, officially titled "Nebraska Right to Abortion Initiative", was a proposed constitutional amendment that appeared on the November 5, 2024 ballot in Nebraska.
Three days into her court-ordered confinement, Burton underwent an emergency C-section, at which time the fetus was found to be dead.
The test provided, "A worker making a claim that her company intentionally treated her differently due to her pregnancy must show that she sought an accommodation, her company refused and then granted accommodations to others suffering from similar restrictions.
Their efforts included collaborations with international organizations and pharmaceutical companies, the creation of teenage reproductive health clinics such as Yuventa in St.
Origins The earliest documented appearance of a group calling itself "Church Ladies for Choice" occurred in November 1989 in Pittsburgh.
Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on access to abortion In March 2020, COVID-19 impacted the United States, and the CDC declared COVID-19 a pandemic.
Restrictive abortion laws are associated with increases in the percentage of abortions performed unsafely.
However, 78% of teenagers report knowing someone who has had an abortion and the police do not always prosecute everyone who has an abortion.
In the event that a prisoner became pregnant, her gaoler or the local sheriff was subject to a fine.
International Movements Similar leagues were founded in several other European countries including Germany, France, and the Netherlands in the following years.
It has been studied in the context of war, particularly as a tool for genocide, as well as in other unrelated contexts, such as rape by a stranger, statutory rape, incest, and underage pregnancy.
Likewise, a 2016 study found the use of methotrexate, in combination with anti-TNF agents, is effective for the treatment of ulcerative colitis.
Once paternity has been legally established, if the court finds that to do so would be contrary to the best interest of the child, in most U.S.
References External links Text of the bill Statement of the Clinton administration regarding the bill
Criminal proceedings On 14 March 2011, Shuai was charged with the murder and attempted feticide of her child, and was jailed for 435 days.
Also in 2018, SisterSong co-founded a collaboration to combat religious exemption laws with Atlanta Jobs with Justice, Women Engaged, and Georgia Equality.
In TFMR, the concept of abortion as a "choice" does not accurately capture the true complexities of deciding to end a wanted pregnancy.
Before being treated with pregnancy prevention measures, a rape victim is given a HCG pregnancy test to determine whether she was already pregnant before the rape.
Methotrexate is also sometimes used in combination with other conventional DMARDs, such as sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine.
In January 2022, Health Minister Nitzan Horowitz announced that surrogacy would be allowed for same-sex couples, transgender people, and single men starting on 11 January.
In addition, it requires the doctor to put the ultrasound image within the view of the woman and describe it.
On 25 March 2021, le Réseau des Médias Africains pour la Promotion de la Santé et l’Environnement (transl.
Oceania New Zealand In New Zealand, Conscientious Objection in Abortion is supported by legislation and employment was protected against discrimination, however, in 2020, this protection was partially removed where it causes unreasonable disruption to an employers services.
Religion Dispatches was founded in 2007 as a daily non-profit online magazine covering religion, politics, and culture.
The majority of the Court found that tort claims cannot be brought against women for negligence toward the fetus during pregnancy.
Clock pins do not have a standardised taper, but they generally have a more pronounced taper than the standard engineering pins.
Surface finish A flush rivet is used primarily on external metal surfaces where good appearance and the elimination of unnecessary aerodynamic drag are important.
The strands are plied in the opposite direction to that of their twist, which adds torsional strength to the cord and keeps it from unravelling.
In the 17th and 18th century, the áo giao lĩnh worn by men was an ankle-level gown which could be used as part of a formal attire; it was composed of four-panel of fabric and was loose-fitting and featured a jiaoling youren collar, loose sleeves, and side slits.
The product has been marketed by various brands but the original company was Slanket created by Gary Clegg, then other companies like Snuggie, Snuggler, Doojo, Oodie and Toasty Wrap, copying the brand later.
With reference to the dimension of the gusset, the measurements of a flat bottom bag may be quoted as L×W×G.
Many of those who seek breast augmentation want "full cleavage" which, according to plastic surgeon Jeffrey Weinzweig, "in reality results only from external forces, such as a brassier.
The industry is strongly tied to the production of automobiles, aircraft, appliances, agricultural machinery, commercial construction, and infrastructure.
A button blanket is wool blanket embellished with mother-of-pearl buttons, created by Northwest Coastal tribes, that is worn for ceremonial purposes.
Application: Joint between piston rod and cross head of a steam engine Joint between valve rod and its steam A steam engine connecting rod strap end Foundation bolt Bolted A bolted joint is a mechanical joint which is the most popular choice for connecting two members together.
Typically, this style of neckline is associated with skin-baring clothing, including undergarments and activewear.
The appearance of interlocking buckle promoted the emergence and the popularity of the standup collar and the Chinese jacket with buttons at the front, and laid the foundation of the use of Chinese knot buckles.
This technique will allow the ceiling board to bow down and stay tight to the angle over time as the truss lifts.
"Gynametry," published in 1887) it is conjectured that in poor prints the apostrophe and the crossbar of the lower case "e" were indistinct, and the neologism "armscye" was created by readers who concatenated the orphaned fragments "arm" and "s" with the corrupt "cye".
Due to cultural value placed on traditional designs, these blankets remain popular and are used by many people in India.
To overcome possible remanent magnetism, which could cause the electromagnet to fail to release, some door holders are equipped with a spring-loaded pin that helps push the magnetic plate away from the electromagnet when the power is cut.
Baltimore album quilts, Broderie perse, Hawaiian quilts, Amish quilts, Egyptian Khayamiya, tivaevae, the ralli quilts of India and Pakistan also use appliqué.
In addition, purely aesthetic variants have been patented, clips with triangular, star, or round shapes.
A tassel is primarily an ornament, and was at first the casual termination of a cord to prevent unraveling with a knot.
"Hurricane clip" has two meanings in building construction: A connecting tie that provides a continuous structural load transfer path from the top of a building to its foundation, helping to protect buildings from damage resulting from high wind.
Since fabric is generally more flexible than paper, the fabric will shift around the apex of the cone and form a softer, but still curved, shape.
The primary life support system for the EMU suit used on the Space Shuttle and International Space Station is manufactured by Hamilton Sundstrand.
History 19th century A striped boat neck shirt was used in sailors' uniforms of the French Navy in 1858.
Brass fasteners are made of a soft metal such as brass and the tines are typically of two slightly different lengths to allow easy separation.
Straps are also used as fasteners to attach, secure, carry, or bind items, to objects, animals (for example a saddle on a horse) and people (for example a watch on a wrist), or even to tie down people and animals, as on an apparatus for corporal punishment.
Skirts rose all the way from floor-length to near knee-length in little more than fifteen years (from late in the decade of the 1900s to the mid-1920s).
The automotive and electrical industries use coiled pins in such products as steering boxes and columns, pumps, electric motors and circuit breakers.
Delmonai were usually embroidered by the women of Lithuania Minor themselves; however, they could also order delmonai from a tailor as well.
In literature The earliest mention of Bengali kantha is found in the medieval Bengali literature Chaitanya Charitamrita by Krishnadasa Kaviraja, written during the late 16th century.
It came into wide use especially in the United States in the latter half of the 19th century, when men's ready-made shirts came in a single (extra long) sleeve length.
Stainless steel cable ties are also available for flameproof applications—coated stainless ties are available to prevent galvanic attack from dissimilar metals (e.g.
The two slots cut in each loop are shaped so that the wire handles can be folded down once the clip has been attached, and the spring force of the wire holds them down on the surface of the paper.
A similar idea, also known as a shock mount, is found in furniture design, introduced by Charles and Ray Eames.
A Gripple wire joiner is a device used to join and tension wire, to terminate and suspend wires and wire ropes, and also to support false ceilings, cable baskets, and similar items.
Anyone who failed to wear the badge in time or wore a fake badge would be labeled as a bourgeois or alien element by the wearer and criticized.
Although the design of the áo giao lĩnh was heavily influenced by China, it was less constrained in style compared to its Chinese counterpart; and thus, facilitated ease of movements to its wearer.
Some dress shirts are sold with shorter, wider stays than the classic shirt stay (e.g., Tommy Hilfiger).
Regenerable systems allowed a shuttle mission a longer stay in space without having to replenish its sorbent canisters.
A monument of a seated Franklin stands near the sculpture; legend has it that when this man of considerable girth sat down, his vest button popped off and rolled across the university's Locust Walk.
Some scholars have suggested phoenix buttons may have been used for "decorating Men's clothing",” and were items "associated with social displays of high status" among indigenous peoples.
Gussets were used at the shoulders, underarms, and hems of traditional shirts and chemises made of rectangular lengths of linen to shape the garments to the body.
It can hold a few to many sheets of paper, and is usually used in place of the paper clip for large volumes of paper.
It is commonly used in garments such as swimwear, camisoles, crop tops, brassieres, sundresses, cocktail dresses,evening gowns and form-fitting body con so-named for its resemblance to the thin pasta strings called spaghetti.
A captive fastener is sometimes made with thread locking, press-fitting, or broaching to accomplish an anchor-hold within a larger assembly housing.
The term is also used in bookbinding, where a narrow soutache is applied at the top and bottom of a book back to reinforce the spine and provide a barrier to keep dust out of the binding.
They are simple in design and require work holding fixtures only, so the clamping and component query devices are much more affordable.
Rivets come in a range of diameters and lengths depending on the materials being joined; head styles are either flush countersunk or pan heads.
The three-ring system is simple, inexpensive, reliable, and requires fewer operations than earlier parachute release systems while reducing the physical force needed.
A crossbar for a single jamb may be "captured" on the door by U-shaped bails, or anchored by a bolt on its inboard end and pivoted up and down into open cleats, making it a form of latch.
The ratcheting mechanism functions similarly to a socket wrench; you open and close the fastener repeatedly to pull the webbing through the fastener.
This is distinguished from hemming which simply folds the edge over; facing is (or appears to be) a more substantial layer of additional fabric added to the edges of the garment.
A positive locking device is a device used in conjunction with a fastener in order to positively lock the fastener.
When gas enters the PLSS, activated charcoal removes odors and lithium hydroxide (LiOH) removes carbon dioxide.
Given the royal collar of the swan, the marriage of the future Henry IV to Mary de Bohun probably provides the earliest possible date.
If the lower slider is raised then the bottom part of the jacket may be opened to allow more comfortable sitting or bicycling.
Depending on the badge, the leader is depicted in a Western suit, military attire, or some other type of clothing.
By the 17th century, pockets were sewn into men's clothing, while women's remained as separate tie-on pouches hidden beneath skirts.
The Valsalva device is a device used in spacesuits, some full face diving masks, and diving helmets to allow astronauts and commercial divers to equalize the pressure in their ears by performing the Valsalva maneuver inside the suit without using their hands to block their nose.
Coiled pins continue to flex after insertion when a load is applied to the pin thus providing excellent performance to counter fatigue in dynamic applications.
This is seen on most CD-ROM drives as an "emergency eject" should the power fail; also on early floppy disk drives (including the early Macintosh).
German and Austrian mountaineers started using them during the late 19th century, with a mention of their use from 1879, and their continued use for climbing by climbers in Saxon Switzerland.
Sports Sleeves made from Spandex or Lycra are used by long-distance runners and other endurance athletes.
Many of such women would pass delmonai to younger generations, who would then donate them for various museums of Lithuania.
Television show host David Letterman immortalized this during the February 28, 1984 episode of Late Night with David Letterman on NBC.
In the western world during the 19th century, the contortion of waistbands was less pronounced due to the fashionability of suspenders.
Brooches with religious motifs and enamelled miniature portraits were popular during this time period.
Divided shirt-cuffs are of three kinds, depending on fastening: Button cuffs, also called barrel cuffs, have buttonholes on the one side and buttons on the other (sometimes more than one, so that the fit can be adjusted).
Note that, unlike the traditional bayonet fitting, the retaining springs act laterally on the pins so no inward pressure is required to lock the lamp in the fitting.
See also References External links Media related to Collars at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of collar (clothing) at Wiktionary Collars on Boys Shirts and Blouses: From the Historical Boys' Clothing website
However, Monash, as commander of the 3rd Division, was able to claim by November 1916 that "'All who have a right to be called "Anzacs" among us are now wearing a metal "A" on the colour patches on the sleeves".
and were found along with needles and tools that were used to sew clothing and make nets for hunting small animals and birds.
While holding the button away from the garment, the thread is then firmly wrapped around the button (in between the button and fabric) a few times to form a sturdy wrapper for the other threads.
Jones (4 May 1987), Conference Proceedings, Society of Plastics Engineers 1987 Annual Technical Papers, pp.
The angle of the wedge determines the position of the parts being held; therefore, on a bicycle, the pedal arms will only be at 180 degrees to each other if the angle of the cotter pin's wedge is the same on both pins.
The word "butterfly" refers to the motion of the prongs when the fastener is opened, which somewhat resembles that of butterfly wings.
Book clasps were used to tightly hold the covers of a book together, keeping the book closed and the pages flat.
Military Military personnel commonly wear name badges on their uniforms, generally on the right chest.
An aglet keeps the fibers of the lace or cord from unraveling; its firmness and narrow profile make it easier to hold and easier to feed through eyelets, lugs, or other lacing guides.
A pin-back button or pinback button, pin button, button badge, or simply pin-back or badge, is a button or badge that can be temporarily fastened to the surface of a garment using a safety pin, or a pin formed from wire, a clutch or other mechanism.
External links Media related to Sleeves at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of outer arm at Wiktionary The dictionary definition of sleeve at Wiktionary
A butterfly clutch, also known as a Ballou clutch, is a type of fastener that attaches to the back of a tack pin to secure an accessory to clothing.
Instead of relying on darts to shape the garment, the fit is achieved with long seams (princess seams) and shaped pattern pieces.
The most generally useful size in entomology is size 2, which is 0.46 millimetres (0.018 in) in diameter, with sizes 1 and 3 being the next most useful.
For example, in the UK, the connector on the end of a headphone lead is known as a jack that plugs into a socket on the main unit.
This form of art showcases the flexibility and adaptability of the paper clip beyond its traditional use.
He was a trustee of such institutions and also served in the Massachusetts General Court as a representative and senator.
It is named after FitzRoy Somerset, 1st Baron Raglan, who is said to have worn a coat with this style of sleeve after the loss of his arm in the Battle of Waterloo.
Similar neckline styles would be the bateau neckline (also known as a boat neck) and a scoop neck cut.
The ANZAC "A" badge is a brass insignia authorised in November 1917 for members of the First Australian Imperial Force who had served as a member of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZACs) during the Gallipoli campaign in 1915.
Whitehead patented the first innovation to the design in 1893 by inserting a sheet of transparent film made of celluloid over a photograph mounted on a badge to protect the image from scratches and abrasion.
The contest requests "proposed solutions for fecal, urine, and menstrual management systems to be used in the crew’s launch and entry suits over a continuous duration of up to 144 hours".
Appliqué is commonly practised with textiles, but the term may be applied to similar techniques used on different materials.
The word Velcro is a portmanteau of two French words: "velours" meaning velvet, and "crochet" meaning hook.
The high production costs are due to the amount of calculation and precision that must be done in order to create a strong snap-fit.
Many kinds exist, though a common type combines a short length of fine wire bent into a diamond shape, with one corner held by a piece of tinplate or plastic.
(This latter function is provided for spacecraft by Micrometeoroid and Orbital Debris (MMOD) Protection systems.) The specific design of TMGs varies between different space agencies and different suits, though they all serve the same purpose.
This pattern is highly developed and very accurate pattern that is designed to fit a specific set of measurements.
Thus, there was a removal of shoulder pads and other internal structuring during the easy, oversized, unconstructed Big Look or Soft Look era of the mid-seventies, spearheaded in womenswear by Kenzo Takada in 1973-74 and in menswear by Giorgio Armani a couple of years later.
In knitting gloves and mittens, a "thumb gore" is often incorporated from the wrist part way to the tip of the thumb to accommodate the gradually increasing width of the hand.
Coiled pins are commercially available in three different duties, standard (ISO 8750), heavy (ISO 8748) and light duty (ISO 8751), which provide for a variety of combinations of strength, flexibility and diameter to suit different mating host materials and performance requirements.
However, after four hours waiting on the pad he could no longer hold it, and had to urinate inside his pressure suit, shorting the biomedical electrodes attached to his body.
Sources Extreme steel 'Velcro' takes a 35-tonne load, New Scientist, 2009-09-04 German-language website with technical and business details Systematische Untersuchungen zu metallischen Klettverbindungen - ISBN 978-3-89791-394-3
When there is no need to use them they can be blanked either by turning one piece 90° against the other or by inserting an extra plastic piece designed to fit that purpose.
These early sewers also utilized thimbles to guard against occasional finger pricks, as evidenced by ancient artifacts.
A crew neck (also spelled crewneck or crew-neck) is a type of shirt or sweater that has a round neckline and no collar and is often worn with other layers.
A lapel pin, also known as an enamel pin, is a small pin worn on clothing, often on the lapel of a jacket, attached to a bag, or displayed on a piece of fabric.
Maar de hertog van Anjou bleek geen goede leider en men wilde hem niet te veel macht geven; als reactie probeerde deze de macht dan maar met geweld te grijpen en richtte zo de Franse furie aan, maar werd ten slotte verdreven.
In the United States and the United Kingdom, the top button is virtually always left unbuttoned, unless one is wearing a necktie, but unbuttoning two or more buttons is seen as overly casual.
21st century The princess line remains a popular style for wedding dresses and a design staple for both day and evening dresses.
By the Tang dynasty, the incorporation of flowing garments into court dances further refined the aesthetic groundwork for water sleeves.
Sewing patterns specify if interfacing is needed, the weight of interfacing that is required, and the amount.
During the 15th and 16th centuries, this form of pleating was popular in the garments of men and women.
Other applications include pintle and lunette ring for towing, and pintle pins securing casters in furniture.
Description and history The Chester Herald, John Heaton-Armstrong, was "commissioned to prepare a badge for the RAAF" in 1937.
A specific form of radially assembled retaining ring is the Benzing ring (also called Benzing washer), named after its inventor and patent holder, Hugo Benzing.
A strap differs from a belt mainly in that a strap is usually integral to the item of clothing; either can be used in combination with buckles.
P pad stitching Pad stitching is used to secure two pieces of fabric together with perpendicular stitches.
Components Strap loop Strap union Strap fitting Packaging The strap is commonly used in the packaging industry to secure or fasten items.
The most common type has a single snap hook at one end and a swivel ring at the other, but double ended bolt snaps and single ended snaps with a swivel shackle are also available.
EN 12195-2 specifies the strength, construction, marking, and testing requirements for these assemblies to ensure safe load restraint.
Iron tie rods would later be used as a device to reinforce arches, vaults, and cupolas constructed across Medieval Europe.
Patients undergoing pulmonary resections, where lung tissue is sealed with staplers, often experience postoperative air leakage.
The channel is mirrored on the opposite side of the Gripple wire joiner, allowing a second piece of wire to be joined.
Between 1919 and 1923 they changed considerably, being almost to the floor in 1919, rising to the mid-calf in 1920, before dropping back to the ankles by 1923.
After the spacewalk, during rapid repressurization of the airlock, the Valsalva device on Parmitano's helmet failed and came apart while he tried to use it as it was not water proof.
The professional golfer Fuzzy Zoeller was known for this practice; as the golf shirt is a looser-fitting descendant of René Lacoste's tennis shirt, off the course Zoeller wears his golf shirt's collar turned down, whereas one often observes him with an upturned collar while he is playing.
There are also other forms of plug-in shelf supports commonly used in a wardrobes or cabinets (cabinet shelf support, wardrobe shelf support, shelf pin, shelf support peg, shelf support push).
(Named for Jawaharlal Nehru, Prime Minister of India 1947–1964, who commonly wore clothing with this type of collar.) A band is often a mandarin collar.
Turnlock fasteners are available in several different styles and are usually referred to by the manufacturer's trade name.
Vents are convenient, particularly when using a pocket or sitting down, to improve the hang of the jacket, so are now used on most jackets.
Ladder Dogs (in the form of pawls) are used on extension ladders to temporarily anchor their sections to one-another.
Badge of Honor (film), a 1934 American film directed by Spencer Gordon Bennet See also Cross of Honour (disambiguation), various awards.
Some historians of dress such as Bernard Rudofsky have ridiculed the evolution of jacket lapels into "vastly unnecessary flaps" and "decorative rudiments", while others have celebrated the transformation of lapels into "fetishes" as part of fashion as expression.
In 1520, the church at Regensbury sold over 120,000 badges to medieval pilgrims, after a drastic shortage the previous year.
Ratchet A pawl is used in combination with a ratchet gear in socket wrenches, bicycle freehubs, winches, ratchet reels for diving, fishing, and many other applications.
History 19th century The princess line is popularly associated with Charles Frederick Worth who first introduced it in the early 1870s.
A clip worn on a lapel or front pocket could be seen as "deux gaules" (two posts or poles) and be interpreted as a reference to the leader of the French Resistance, General Charles de Gaulle.
When activated, the OPS provided oxygen to a separate inlet on the pressure suit, once a vent valve on a separate suit outlet was manually opened.
The raglan mid-length sleeve is a popular undergarment (worn under the jersey) for baseball teams in MLB.
The religious association of these sleeves eventually dissipated at which point the bell sleeve became adapted by the upper class.
Pins are often worn by athletes on their lanyards or accreditation badges to indicate a willingness to trade.
1820–1841), the clothing in Vietnam was finally standardized throughout the entire country when Emperor Minh Mang decreed that the áo ngũ thân had to become the national dress for all the regions in 1830.
Many lengths of bias-cut fabric can be pieced together into a long "tape", which is typically sold in metre or roll lengths by haberdashers.
History In 19s, there were no factories or production outlets for woollen or cotton blankets in much of India.
Applications Because of their ease of use, hook-and-loop fasteners have been used for a wide variety of applications where a temporary bond is required.
These fasteners are notable in that they are of an "over-centre" design, requiring positive sustained torque to unfasten.
A child could earn this version of the badge by introducing someone to a new sport (maybe a friend or a brother or sister).
Cloth is usually woven on a loom, a device that holds the warp threads in place while filling threads are woven through them.
The prohibition was renewed at various intervals throughout the century, and in the same interval the use of the ribbon loom was interdicted in most of the principal industrial centres of Europe.
Some of these special pliers can be configured for internal or external clips, while in other cases, one plier is used for internal clips and another for external clips.
Variety There is a subtle distinction between aglets, which are generally functional, and aiguillettes, which are generally decorative.
In this case, the suggestion may be that the sleeve garter facilitates freedom of movement and aids in gunslingers’ ability to quick draw.
See also Badge Campaign button Lapel pin Prizes Promotional merchandise Safety pin References External links The Busy Beaver Button Museum Collection of United States Social Pinback Buttons.
Additionally, this period of time heavily embraced doing things yourself and creating your own clothes.
Design engineers apply the Junker test to determine the point at which fastener securing elements – such as lock nuts, wedges and lock washers – fail when subjected to vibration.
Magnetic clasp – Magnetic clasps are composed of a small disc magnet that is attracted to another magnet that is attached to the back of the pin.
Pom-poms are also waved by sports fans, primarily at college and high school sports events in the United States.
It was used extensively in the 18th and 19th centuries, particularly in tricorns, bicornes and shakos used in military uniforms.
It was developed by Reinz-Dichtungs-GmbH, Technische Universität München, Hölzel Stanz- und Feinwerktechnik GmbH & Co.
There are many other proverbial and metaphorical expressions associated with the sleeve, such as "to wear one's heart upon one's sleeve", and "to laugh in one's sleeve".
Invented in its original large ring form by Bill Booth, and subsequently scaled down for thinner Type 17 webbing risers the three-ring system allows a skydiver to quickly cut-away a malfunctioning main parachute with a single motion.
Ruffles are versatile and can be incorporated into dresses of all styles, from elegant gowns to playful party dresses, making them appealing to women of all ages.
In the 9–0 decision on judgement, the Court ruled that a plaintiff in a trademark infringement lawsuit is not required to demonstrate that the defendant willfully infringed on their trademark to claim lost profit damages.
It is especially popular in clothing where it replaces buttons or zippers, and as a shoe fastener for children who have not yet learned to tie shoelaces.
It is traditionally used in nautically inspired sweaters and knitwear, but is also featured in more elegant cocktail dresses and eveningwear.
The user presses the two handles together, causing the jaws to open against the force of the spring, then inserts a stack of papers and releases the handles.
The Space Poop Challenge was a 2016 contest sponsored by NASA for new designs of space toilet systems for use in space suits.
The object is such a common sight in offices that, in late 2020, when restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic were lowered and people started returning to their offices, some missed and enjoyed the feeling of using a binder clip, after months without doing so.
Notable wearers Notable people who have worn finger sleeves include: Kobe Bryant, who wore them to hold a protective gel pad on his arthritic fingers.
In many cases, the finger sleeve is worn for protection as an alternative to performing some sort of taping job on the digit.
The Dzus fastener, also known as a turnlock fastener or quick-action panel fastener, is a type of proprietary quarter-turn spiral cam lock fastener often used to secure skin panels on aircraft and other high-performance vehicles.
The neckline was introduced in the 1920s by Madeleine Vionnet based on her study of ancient Grecian sculptures.
In situations where the wearer must stay in place inside a vehicle, heavy but long-term-operation heat exchangers can be used, such as a refrigeration system to cool the liquid.
History Badges depicting Mao Zedong first appeared at the Chinese People's Anti-Japanese Military and Political College (中国人民抗日军事政治大学) at Yan'an during the 1930s.
Natural: A horizontal waistline that falls at the natural waist and tends to make the wearer seem shorter by visually dividing the figure in half.
The process is fast, robust, and is flexible in nature; thus improving its usage and providing reliability to the riveted joint along with the final product quality.
They are also used as pivots and axles, for alignment and stopping, to fasten multiple components together—such as a gear and shaft—and even as ejector pins to remove motherboards from PCs.
References External links The dictionary definition of thumbtack at Wiktionary Media related to Pushpins at Wikimedia Commons Media related to Drawing pins at Wikimedia Commons
Eastern deacons and sometimes subdeacons, but rarely readers or other minor clerics, also wear a clerical collar, with subdeacons and readers often having a style with no notch, or a tab shirt with no tab.
Straight pins General purpose pins The push pin was invented in 1900 by Edwin Moore and quickly became a success.
Electronics A pogo pin is a type of electrical connector mechanism widely used in modern electronics.
History According to the Church of England's Enquiry Centre (citing the Glasgow Herald of December 6, 1894), the detachable clerical collar was invented in 1865 by the Rev.
A study found that, as widths exceed 100 millimetres (3.9 in), the advantage of having a wider plate decreased, indicating a width threshold for optimal support.
Separate ruffs exist alongside attached ruffled collars from the mid-16th century, usually to allow starching and other fine finishing, or to make collar-laundering easier.
Usage and history Worn at the end of the 18th century – beginning of the 20th century – when region was a part of the Kingdom of Prussia – delmonai served a certain practical function.
Garment collars in hanfu are diverse and come in several shapes, including jiaoling (cross-collars, overlapping collars at the front which closed on the right or left sides), duijin, yuanling, liling, fangling, tanling.
This practical feature was not hidden at first – dalmonai was the most decorated item of the costume.
For example, they are not welcome at Ascot Racecourse as well as in traditionalist societies like Saudi Arabia or Afghanistan.
Material and culture Among some members of the Yoruba, the placement of beads upon their waistbands is an established tradition that is believed to enhance and accentuate a women's femininity.
The user passes the wire loop through the needle eye, passes the string through the wire loop and, finally, pulls the wire loop, back, through the needle by the handle, which pulls the thread through at the same time.
Tennis strings In tennis, the strings are the part of a tennis racquet which make contact with the ball.
Banner making It is particularly suitable for work which is to be seen from a distance, such as in banner-making.
Please see external links for images of buttons (front & back) made from the material(s) in question.
Tying The basic chinese button knot (ABOK #599 on one string) is usually tied with a carrick bend that attaches the two ends as a first step.
The technique is mostly used on knit textiles such as jersey fabric, which allow the hem to hold its shape.
From the late 19th century on polo necks were commonly worn by fishermen, manual workers, athletes, sailors and naval officers.
Manufacturers, using more and more automation in the manufacture and packaging of food, needed methods to raise production volumes and reduce costs.
This resurgence can be attributed to a growing appreciation for romantic and feminine aesthetics, as ruffles add an enchanting flair to garments.
The electric power to keep the doors open is typically 12 VDC, 24 VDC (common), 24 VAC, 120 VAC, or 240 VAC.
Skirts of lower-calf or mid-calf length were associated with the practical working garments of lower-class women or American pioneer women, while even shorter skirt lengths were seen only in certain specialized and restricted contexts (e.g.
During their shows, a condom was tossed into the crowd; whoever caught it (male or female) was taken backstage for sexual acts with band members.
The warlords and generals at the negotiating table, fearing the curse that would befall them should they witness her nakedness, retreated back to the conference room.
Victorian standards of morality penetrated into the society decades later under British colonial influence, which led to subsequent caste struggles for the right to wear upper-body clothing.
In his book, El arte de grabar el sello, published in 1969, engraver of the series, José Sánchez-Toda, reproduced an alternative stamp essay prepared by him for issuance and depicting La maja vestida, just in case if Correos refused to approve the bolder option.
In the Book of Exodus, Moses is commanded to remove his shoes before approaching the burning bush: Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest [is] holy ground (Exodus 3:5).
See also The dictionary definition of shirts and skins at Wiktionary Amateur sports Strip games == References ==
In a betting environment, a player who stays in the pot with a weak hand is liable to lose many chips in a single hand.
Adults are rarely completely naked in modern societies and cover at least their genitals, but adornments and clothing often emphasize, enhance, or otherwise call attention to the sexuality of the body.
Such representations are often defended on the grounds of artistic merit; toplessness may also be defended on educational, medical, or political grounds.
Sheldon's theories became popular in the 1940s, and in 1947 he was given his own laboratory to study "constitutional psychology" at Columbia University [wiki].
History In the early 20th century, the term was appropriated by several groups to denote a broad philosophy that included as a central thought that the nude human body is a natural condition and should be widely acceptable for the betterment of society.
In ancient Greece, an agonothetes (Ancient Greek: ἀγωνοθέτης, plural agonothetae; ἀγωνοθέται) were the persons who decided the disputes and awarded the prizes in the Panhellenic Games.
Squatting is sometimes instructed during the visual search, and prolonged holding of a squat can be demanded; squats are sometimes demanded while standing over a mirror (so that the observer has an improved view).
Biology and sexual education Depictions of the human body, some of which explicitly nude, may be found in books in the context of human biology, growth and development (especially during puberty), human sexuality, and sex education, as appropriate for the age of the intended students.
Crowley had enjoyed several visits to nude beaches during university, and figured a story about nudism could tap into a niche market.
Murphy and Page wrote that "The 'Courtship Disorder Theory' of Freund is one of the only theories specific to exhibitionism." According to Lavin (2008), "Freund's theory, more than the others, makes it clear that the ordering of activities ...
Origin The Games were reputed to have originated as funeral games for Melicertes (also known as Palaemon), instituted by Sisyphus, legendary founder and king of Corinth, who discovered the dead body and buried it subsequently on the Isthmus.
Development Grace Crowley has been drawing comics since she was a child, and shortly after completing university, she found herself working for a publisher that specializes in educational comics, presenting realistic stories about specific heavy issues.
Origins Since the poets most often call their victory songs hymnoi (ὕμνοι), it has been conjectured that hymns for Heracles, honored as the founder of the Olympic Games, were the original model for the athletic epinikion.
After its foundation the FPN applied to join INF/FNI-International Naturist Federation, which was then represented in Portugal by the Portuguese Vegetarian Association, which succeeded “Sociedade Portuguesa de Naturalogia” in this task.
The original iterations of gymnasia were large open areas at city outskirts, not enclosed structures.
See also Clothing-optional bike rides Nudity in sport List of public outdoor clothes free places == References ==
Some religious traditions or rituals require the members to be nude, as was the case with the ancient Indian gymnosophists or the Christian sect of the Adamites (the custom is still practised by ascetics of certain Indian religions, such as Hinduism or Jainism).
It repealed various common law crimes (including rape and indecent assault) and replaced them with statutory crimes defined on a gender-neutral basis.
Ethnographic photography What is generally called "ethnographic" nudity has appeared both in serious research works on ethnography and anthropology, as well as in commercial documentaries and in the National Geographic magazine in the United States.
The courtship disorder model offers an underlying common cause for these paraphilias in men to explain this co-occurrence.
This type of nude beach is common when the beach is part of a private resort or other private property.
At the 1953 World Congress, the INF was officially created, and all subsequent World Congresses have been organized by the INF.
The 10th annual awards, held at the Sheraton Premiere Hotel in Los Angeles on June 29, 1986, were the last.
The rules of hijab and Sharia law defines clothing for women as covering the entire body except the face and hands.
Patronage According to Maurice Bowra, the main purpose of the poem is "Pindar's first attempt to deal seriously with the problems of kingship", and especially "the relations of kings with the gods".
We have support; there are many men who come to our events too." The right of women in Canada to go topless was established in 1996, when the Ontario Court of Appeal overturned the 1991 conviction of Gwen Jacob, saying "there was nothing degrading or dehumanizing" about baring her breasts in public.
'no-panties cafés') is an establishment in Japan that offers food and drinks served by waitresses wearing short skirts with no underwear.
The American Psychological Association's Ethics Committee launched an investigation of Bindrim, reportedly prompted by conservative politicians.
Lawrence Émile Zola George Sand The Diary of Anaïs Nin References Further reading Helen Tookey, Anaïs Nin, Fictionality and Femininity: playing a thousand roles, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003, ISBN 0-19-924983-0 Michael Perkins, review of Little Birds, SCREW, June 18, 1979, p.
Mulakkaram, literally translated as breast tax, was a head tax imposed on women belonging to Nadar, Ezhava and other lower caste communities by the erstwhile Kingdom of Tranvancore (in present-day Kerala state of India), and was not applicable to upper caste women of Travancore.
One Son of Freedom was killed by his own bomb 1962: Sons of Freedom from the town of Krestova, make their way to Vancouver to raise public awareness and in protest of the arrest of their supporters for arson and bombings.
United States Maryland In January 2006, a Maryland state circuit court determined that mooning is a form of artistic expression protected by the First Amendment as a form of speech.
by adding two factors to the second prong, requiring that the item in question present a threat and that the school officials have a reasonable belief that the item is located in the student's undergarments".
In popular culture Nude weddings are the norm in the fictional Betazoid culture in Star Trek because of their ability to see thoughts and emotions of others.
The Kansas Supreme Court reversed, holding the SVPA unconstitutional as Crane had only a personality disorder, rather than a volitional impairment.
Description The Cock is one of a few remaining cruising spaces in New York City, and photography is prohibited inside.
However, recent research suggests narcissistic women don't display the same traits associated with narcissism in men.
The annual GNI Gathering, held each August in rural eastern Pennsylvania, remains the largest gay naturist gathering, attracting about 800 gay naturists.
The police began their investigation by quizzing staff of the China Press, which had also independently obtained footage of the incident.
In the last decade, the word gymnosophy has begun to be used as a term for a new, more spiritual and holistic, free body culture.
Christiane and Albert Lecocq, from Arras who had been instrumental in setting up a region framework for urban naturist clubs, conceived the idea of combining naturism and travel made possible by paid annual leave, introduced in 1936 in France.
Even before Eve's creation, God had warned Adam "but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for when you eat of it you will surely die" (Genesis 2:17).
Jimmy Buffett was known for performing barefoot at concerts, promoting an island/beach bum lifestyle.
Later the army commander was asked what he said in the situation and he replied, "Oh, by God, it was too serious to say anything." On 16 November, the French cavalry rounded up 600 stragglers and the following day, they captured even more.
A contest in a Milwaukee tavern in 1976 was subject to a police raid, despite contestants wearing Scotch Tape under their T-shirts as required by the police.
has clinical significance." Another theoretically based taxonomy of the paraphilias was proposed by John Money, who described the range of paraphilic interests as lovemaps.
The commission recommended a code of practice that would not permit these cases to be included as part of the Standing Orders of the Inspector-General of Police.
"Stripsearch" is a song from Faith No More's studio sixth album, Album of the Year, and was set for release as a single in November 1997.
Katrina Law as Mira – a slave girl sent, under threat of death, to seduce Spartacus and become his lover.
The overall winner is the competitor with the highest point total at the end of the five pentathlon events.
Etymology The American Dialect Society defines "wardrobe malfunction" as "an unanticipated exposure of bodily parts".
Nude mods usually skew towards a male audience, and are often controversial with game developers and some fans, though other developers take a laissez-faire attitude or even support their creation.
Public nudity is used widely around the world today, with groups like the Ukrainian feminist activist group FEMEN, and the animal rights organization PETA.
Mohr, Robert Edward Turner and Marian Bernice Jerry, published by the University of Toronto Press in 1964.
Music Burck has made appearances in three music videos, including Cake's "Short Skirt/Long Jacket", Tyler Hilton's "When It Comes", and Nickelback's "Rockstar".
Texter appeared in two other movies, also released in 1971: Angels Hard as They Come and Runaway, Runaway.
Consequences for senders Risks are involved in creating and sending dick pics; sending these images without consent can have legal consequences if the recipient reports sexual harassment.
References External links Academy at Ivy Ridge (archived) The Program: Cons, Cults, and Kidnapping on Netflix
One of the male youths gets one of the girls, and the others, frightened, turn into black-headed ducks and fly away.
The lack of clothing above the waist for both females and males was the norm in traditional cultures of North America, Africa, Australia and the Pacific Islands until the arrival of Christian missionaries, and it continues to be the norm in many indigenous cultures today.
Majority opinion The majority opinion for the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit found the search unconstitutional.
Paul Bindrim (14 August 1920 in New York City – 17 December 1997 in Los Angeles) was an American psychotherapist who is known as the founder of nude psychotherapy which he believed allowed people to access and express repressed feelings more easily.
Randolph Latimore Court case In the late 1950s Garden of Eden was the subject of a court case, Excelsior Pictures v.
Career Gilda Texter is a costume designer who worked in the costume and wardrobe departments of over 40 movies and television productions.
Although rediscovery of Greek ideals in the Renaissance restored the nude to symbolic meaning in art, by the Victorian era, public nakedness was considered obscene.
The epinikion and society "The victory ode", notes Mary Lefkowitz, "is a curious and somewhat paradoxical form of art".
Bhakti and Sufi Movements: While the larger society became more conservative, the Bhakti and Sufi poets often used the metaphor of nakedness to symbolize purity, innocence, and a soul stripped of worldly desires.
Nudity movements In many societies, the breast continues to be associated with both nurturing babies and sexuality.
Nude psychotherapy Bindrim corresponded with Abraham Maslow on the subject of nude psychotherapy groups which Maslow, who was then-president of the American Psychological Association, supported.
On the Seven Mile Beach in Negril, Jamaica, for example, though the beach is lined with private resorts with fences down to the sand/waterline, the beach itself is open to the public.
A nude wedding scene appears in the 1968 film Girls Come Too (later re-titled How I Became a Nudist).
Tagami sued the city, arguing that the law was unconstitutional under both the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the freedom of speech protections of the First Amendment; the suit was dismissed by the court.
Some naturists hold that nakedness is not automatically a sexual state and that covering areas of the body is merely a social construct: they believe that the norms of society can be upheld even when all are nude.
Due to the lack of primary sources, the misconceptions of nyotaimori's origin persisted when the practice became internationally known through popular culture.
Naked Pumpkin Run is an annual event in certain United States municipalities where otherwise nude participants run a course through a town, their heads adorned with carved pumpkins.
Some women won horse and chariot races at the Olympic games; they were the owners of the horses and chariots: women victors on this list include Bilistiche, Euryleonis, Kasia Mnasithea, Kyniska, and Timareta.
Before going to sleep, Lattimore visits Joan, who tells him that she is happy there and wonders why he is so grouchy and makes her mother cry.
By the time the program went off the air in 2005, it had become one of Playboy TV's longest-running shows.
In 1919, the Yoga teacher Blanche DeVries opened a Yoga Gymnosophy Institute in New York that combined Oriental Dance and Yoga.
Selection and societal role Those chosen to be theoroi for their specific city-states were from the elites of that city-state.
The show first screened on New Zealand television in 1996 on Sky Sport; however, those without a Sky subscription could view SportsCafe without a UHF Sky decoder by tuning their TV to the Sky Sport UHF channel, as the signal was not scrambled during this show.
"These feverish protesters are such a familiar part of the ritual, they really should be listed in the program," sex news magazine Cheri stated after the 1983 awards.
The county prosecutor refused to prosecute, concluding that nudity without lewd behavior was not illegal in California.
The webcomic, which was originally intended for a niche audience of naturists, follows the inhabitants of a fictional nudist resort.
At least one prominent charity football event uses blonde versus brunette hair color as an alternative to shirts and skins, with competitors allowed to dye their hair to match their respective team.
History In 2007, a musical weekend at The Ballyknockan Inn, with camping facilities available, had 40 acts.
The same purpose is frequently attributed to the tradition of oiling the body, a custom so costly that it required significant public and private subsidies (the practice was the largest expense in gymnasia).
However, anthropologists have noted that many non-Western societies have elaborate rituals of bathing and purification.
The testimony, which quickly became front-page news in Liberia, resulted in Blahyi achieving global fame.
Bindrim corresponded with Abraham Maslow on the subject of nude psychotherapy groups, which Maslow, who was then-president of the American Psychological Association, supported.
The "walker" may often be identified by their disheveled appearance and incongruous evening attire, particularly on Saturday or Sunday mornings.
Campus police first arrested him that fall for indecent exposure when he jogged unclothed near southside dormitories late on a Saturday night.
The theorodokoi (Greek: θεωροδόκοι, θεαροδόκοι) in ancient Greece were sacred envoy-receivers whose duty was to host and assist the theoroi (θεωροί, "viewers") before the Panhellenic games and festivals.
The film was switched to Sony division Columbia Pictures, due to an ongoing conflict between the former studio and Fincher during the production of The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.
The study demonstrated that the 2013 news operation produced a higher quantity of content than did its 2011 predecessor.
On Frank Zappa's 1979 album Joe's Garage the track "Fembot in a Wet T-Shirt" tells of Mary from Canoga Park who takes part in a wet T-shirt contest in order to raise money to return home after being abandoned by a rock group in Miami.
They were responsible for looking after and compensating persons training for public contests, conducting the games at the great Athenian festivals, exercising general supervision over competitor morale, and decorating and maintaining the gymnasium.
It was to be a 'Centre de Vacances' and thus a separate legal entity that could make a profit and a commercial company SOCNAT was formed in 1954.
In the 1970 Mexican film Robinson Crusoe and its 1973 sequel Robinson y Viernes en la Isla Encantada (Robinson and Friday on the Enchanted Island), Ahui Camacho played Friday to Hugo Stiglitz' Crusoe.
Americans avoid talking about the body and sex with their children, in particular not using real or specific names for body parts and functions.
It developed in the 1960s along with the encounter group movement as a way to challenge preconceptions and promote intimacy and trust, but suffered a decline in the 1980s.
The noise made by the door as it falls terrifies them, as they think the Devil himself is coming, so they flee.
Its role as the trade association of the adult entertainment industry was taken over by the FSC, which acknowledges the AFAA as its first ancestor.
In one incident, a 25-year-old man said he had been stopped by officers on his way into an event at Sydney Olympic Park in 2016.
According to the New York magazine, public sex occurs frequently in New York City, and is a fantasy common to many people.
In doing so, Mayer acknowledges the shifting dynamics of labour by highlighting a new media economy of workers who identify themselves within the industry, despite their work remaining ‘undervalued’ or ‘invisible’.
In September 1992, his second year in college, he began appearing unclad in public and led a campus "nude-in" to protest social repression.
Yet the poet keeps his distance; the central mythological episode is concerned with chariot racing, a more prestigious competition than the single horse race; and Pindar warns Hieron that there are limits to human ambition (line 114).
Since then, it has received increased attention, particularly in feminist research, and has been used to advocate for equal rights for both men and women.
The proposed movie idea was dropped because several studios considered it "too risqué for mainstream audiences." Miller commented that: "David really believes in the project.
Wheelwright (1846) Olympian 1, translated into English prose by Ernest Myers (1874) See also Ode 5 by Bacchylides (celebrating the same victory) Curse of the Atreids Greek hero cult Nine lyric poets Kleos Papyrus Oxyrhynchus 222 References Further reading Gerber, Douglas E.
Delicious was published in 2005 by the Atlantic Monthly Press, with Salty (2007), Baked (2010), Raw: A Love Story (2013), and Blown (2018) published by Grove Atlantic/Black Cat.
Shortly thereafter, the government starts to formulate a response, deciding that all legal suits that were asking for compensation for abuse be sent straight to the courts.
To settle the dispute, the Eleans selected a wise elderly woman from each of sixteen polites in Elis.
Todd Ragsdale, of Talent, Oregon, set the world record (pending confirmation by Guinness World Records) for the longest distance run barefoot on June 5, 2010, as part of the Relay for Life fundraiser for the American Cancer Society.
Intellectual, imaginative, romantic, emotional." In her 1976 preface to Delta of Venus she said "I had a feeling that Pandora's box contained the mysteries of woman's sensuality, so different from man's and for which man's language was inadequate....
These rules also enable a discreet check for weapons or other contraband, with less legal implications, being less objectionable because the requirement is applied to everyone entering a facility.
Simonides was the first professional poet known to write odes in honor of victorious athletes at the games; in antiquity, he was also notorious for being the first poet to charge a fee for his services.
However, Boyle's fictional group initially live in California and later move to a remote part of Alaska, and the group shares many qualities with the real Sonoma County Morning Star commune.
During this period he befriended major cultural figures, including Bob Dylan, artist Yayoi Kusama—with whom he staged performance art weddings, Allen Ginsberg, Andy Warhol and members of The Factory, Canadian socialite Margaret Trudeau, and Satsvarūpa Dāsa Gosvāmī, senior disciple of A.
In 2011, the Circus Tent, Fairy Field, family camping, and campervan facilities were added, and local Dublin and Bray bands from the festival formed a 'Busk Mob' in Dublin, singing classic rock hits.
Here in the erotica I was writing to entertain, under pressure from a client who wanted me to 'leave out the poetry.' I believed that my style was derived from a reading of men's works.
Nude weddings, also known as naked marriages, are weddings that may include the couple, bridal parties, and/or guests in the nude.
Although the best-known epinikia appear to have been composed for a chorus, they may have originally been performed by a soloist.
It was inspired by the 2004 Mount Washington strip search phone call scam, the Milgram experiment, and the New York performance-art group Improv Everywhere's "Frozen Grand Central" event.
The club is recognized by the International Naturist Federation, the Federation of Canadian Naturists, the Fédération Québécoise de Naturisme, the American Association for Nude Recreation, and The Naturist Society.
This was because in most cases the theorodokos was to bear the cost of hosting the theoroi, and to have adequate accommodations for the theoroi, the theorodokoi needed sufficient personal wealth.
Even though the model's nipple was not shown, readers—many of them mothers—wrote that the image was "gross".
However, they say that no woman has been caught, except Kallipateira only; some, however, give the lady the name of Pherenike and not Kallipateira.
He obtained his psychologist license in California in 1967, and later served as president of the Group Psychotherapy Association of Southern California in 1978–79.
History The event can be traced to an unsuccessful 1974 Guinness World Record attempt by University of Colorado at Boulder students.
Comic book antiheroes such as Hellboy, John Constantine, and Rorschach (character) each have worn trench coats.
The Nemean Games were held in year two, the Pythian Games in year three, and the Isthmian Games in year four.
Women willingly take off their clothes, engage in sexual activities, or participate in wet T-shirt contests.
Modern changes In earlier times, the girls used to sleep outside in open space; today they sleep in tents.
Crowley got one half-page cartoon of Loxie & Zoot published in an Australian nudist magazine in 1997, and in 1998, she started experimenting with publishing her story as a webcomic.
as inappropriate, unnecessary, and in bad taste, but not arousing feelings of anger, disgust, or outrage." There had to be 'intent to offend'.
During the conflict, Blahyi and his fighters perpetrated numerous atrocities, although the exact extent of the crimes they committed have been the subject of dispute.
History Origin, 1970s and 1980s It was founded in 1969 in Kansas City, with Sam Chernoff of Astro-Jemco Film Co.
The New York State Court of Appeals ruled that onscreen nudity was not obscene, and this ruling opened the door to more open depictions of nudity in film.
They are the daughters of the Enchanter of the Black Back-Lands, the wizard the prince is looking for.
This was based in part on ideas about peak experiences described by Abraham Maslow, considered the father of Humanistic Psychology.
The term 'yakyuuken' originated from a Shikoku baseball game in October 1924, between the local teams of Ehime and Kagawa.
40, &c.) This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed.
It seems that for a time the celebration of the Nemean Games was neglected, and that they were revived in Olympiad 51.4 (573 BC), from which time Eusebius dates the first Nemead.
Zur Selbstdarstellung der Agonotheten in Hellenismus und Kaiserzeit" [‘Generous’, ‘just’ and ‘often honoured’?
Later, portrait statues of the rich, including Roman imperial families, were given idealized nude bodies; by now this included women.
In some periods of European history, female shoulders and legs may have been considered intimate parts.
The 1970s saw more foreign visitors: 37% Dutch, 24% Belgian and 21% German, the rest being from Australia, New Zealand, and the Americas.
In May 1984, original owners Eric and June Jarvis could no longer operate Toronto Helios as a club for nudists only and were changing it to a trailer park open to the general public.
Early life Abolafia was the youngest of four children, with two older brothers one being photographer to the stars Oscar Abolafia and one older sister, born to New York City florist Issac Abolafia and his wife Pearl “Penina” Fisz.
The event encourages women to go topless in public, and men to cover their chests by wearing brassieres or bikinis.
When aboriginal children had grown up naked, they had little interest in sexuality until adulthood, but clothing made them more sexually aware and precocious.
The policy of the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) is that arrests are a last resort and a more gradual approach should be taken in such circumstances.
The Los Angeles Times said, "the kind of superficial, self-congratulatory puff that gives stage liberalism a bad name." However, Hollywood executives took notice and the play led to a career in screenwriting.
The New Sunday Times confirmed Musa's claim that strip searches were standard police procedure carried out after being arrested.
The dean of St Paul's Cathedral, the Very Revd William Inge, known as Dean Inge, offered support to the cause of naturists in his support of the publishing of Maurice Parmelee's book, The New Gymnosophy: Nudity and the Modern Life.
The Egyptians were quite soberly dressed in white linen fabrics, and jewelry offered a possibility for contrast.
The contest subsequently became established at spring break events in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, with some bar owners being fined under public indecency laws for holding one.
As of 2010, Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) policy was that arrests are a last resort and a more gradual approach should be taken in such circumstances.
The Solstice Cyclists (also known as The Painted [Naked] Cyclists of the Solstice Parade, or The Painted Cyclists) is an artistic, non-political, clothing-optional bike ride celebrating the Summer Solstice.
Conduct Sexual activity in social spaces is strictly forbidden in almost all naturist resorts, as are overt sexual invitations.
NBC aired the pilot with the nude scene cut, but a complete version was released to theaters in 1970.
Roberts would return in 2007 during the first NFL regular season game held in England between the Miami Dolphins and New York Giants, streaking during the game at Wembley Stadium.
Equivalents for löyly can be found in the Finnic languages such as the Karelian löyly, the Estonian leil, the Votic leülü, the Veps l'öl' and the Livonian löul.
Male genitalia explicitly were not depicted as overly well-endowed to separate a noble and modest facade from the connotation in Greek culture that larger endowments belonged to more primal and barbaric characteristics.
Promoters of the entertainment industry, including sport, attempt to "sex-up" the entertainment by under-dressing the entertainers or sportspeople.
Places where the reed is located are visited to check if it is ready for cutting and its availability.
Courtship disorder is a theoretical construct in sexology developed by Kurt Freund in which a certain set of paraphilias are seen as specific instances of anomalous courtship instincts in humans.
Courtship disorder is widely cited by sexologists and forensic scientists as one of the predominant models of the paraphilias.
After Johnny discovers that the car repair will take several days, Susan, fully dressed, wanders outside to meet several of the nudists.
Sexcetera is an American television newsmagazine airing on Playboy TV, focused on human sexuality, that was broadcast from 1998 until 2005.
Moreover, its deterrent effect on legitimate expression in the form of movies is both real and substantial.
In South African shopping malls, stores, and events, it is not an uncommon sight to see barefoot adults and children.
Since the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland verdict, the Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has seen no more trace of nude hikers.
The fact that a wet T-shirt contest was proposed led to the case being used to demonstrate institutional sexism in law firms.
Five years later, she opened an institute for women, teaching Yoga Gymnosophy – a name that conveys the blending of yoga and nudism.
Traditionally trench coats are double-breasted with 10 front buttons, wide lapels, a storm flap, and pockets that button-close.
The current list of ancient Olympic victors contains all of the known victors of the ancient Olympic Games from the 1st Games in 776 BC up to the 264th in 277 AD, as well as the games of 369 AD before their permanent disbandment in 393 by Roman emperor Theodosius I.
Bare Oaks has been criticized for its practice of admitting children to the site free of charge, and encouraging the co-mingling of naked children and adults.
and other body parts." Masquerotica is produced by different local event producers and other than being recommended by Mann has no affiliation to the Exotic Erotic Ball.
The department's letter to Ivy Ridge stated that the institution had been determined to be principally a behavior modification program, not a school.
Kansas State Law only prohibits nudity if it is done for the purpose of sexual gratification or arousal, of either the perpetrator or a witness.
Such behavior had become an issue in the 18th century, but laws prohibiting public indecency had little effect.
Saunas, even in the military, are strictly egalitarian places: no titles or hierarchies are used in the sauna.
This goes on for some time, until the farmer decides to hide the swan feathers the next time the woman goes to bathe in the lake.
While his second, Naked at Lunch, is an immersive journalistic account of the world of nudism and was published in 2015.
The supervision of the gymnasia was entrusted to gymnasiarchs, who were public officials responsible for the conduct of sports and games at public festivals and who directed the schools and supervised the competitors.
Croatia is reputed to have been the first European country to develop commercial naturist resorts, at a time when naturism in other countries was limited to membership clubs (and when Croatia was part of Yugoslavia).
In 1966 came the opening of the first official naturist beach in mainland France, which by 1968 had emergency helicopter landing pads.
from The Evergreen State College in 1979 and an MFA from the American Film Institute Conservatory in 1987.
Orsippus (Ancient Greek: Ὄρσιππος) was a Greek runner from Megara who was famed as the first to run the footrace naked at the Olympic Games and "first of all Greeks to be crowned victor naked." Others argue that it was Acanthus instead who first introduced Greek athletic nudity.
Sketching is generally a prescribed part of the studies of art students, who need to develop their ability to quickly record impressions through sketching, from a live model.
The Facebook and Twitter accounts associated with the Pacific Northwest Youth Liberation Front (or PNW Youth Liberation Front) served as "information hubs" for sharing protest plans.
The carrier also could not use the separate subsidiary to promote their data processing services, use network computers for non-network purposes, or use network computers during peak hours to provision data processing services.
Representation and liaison with international institutions on matters of information, media and communications.
Note 2: The FCC registration program contains no requirement that accepted terminal equipment be compatible with, or function with, the network.
Ruth Nankabinwa, the current ICT cabinet minister, has set a medium-term goal for Uganda to join the six leading African countries in the ICT sector.
The telecom sector leads economic reconstruction with four mobile service providers which cover 75% of the country with over 2,400 towers in more than 250 of the largest urban areas.
878 transferred Canada's provincially regulated telephone companies to federal jurisdiction, meaning that they would be regulated by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.
Zone 1, the Radio Astronomy Instrument Zone, restricts intentional radiators to those that are deemed essential.
It was formed on 1 August 1952 by the merger of the Ministry of Postal Services (郵政省) and the Ministry of Telecommunications (電気通信省), which themselves superseded the Ministry of Communications (逓信省, Teishin-shō) from 1 April 1946.
The Telecommunications Act was issued, and the Communications commission was established with a legal status and financial and administrative independence after the Cabinet decree No.
The number of American major media content companies shrank from about fifty in 1983 to ten in 1996, and to just six in 2005.
Then, in 1974, the name was changed to "Ministry of Communication and post" and after a couple of years (in 1976); it was again renamed "Ministry of Transport and Communications".
Organizations like the International Society for Technology in Education and the Consortium for School Networking regularly petition Congress to update the CIPA to address more recent online technologies and behaviors, without banning Internet usage by children altogether.
It oversees: Net*One TelOne Zimpost Zimbabwe in the past 20 years between 2000 and 2020 has seen internet penetration increase by 11,567% == References ==
Category B services (formerly "Category 2"): digital specialty services that were licensed to carry narrower, niche formats in comparison to Category A-licensed channels.
Accounting Safeguards The FCC created a series of accounting safeguards that can be found in Subpart I of Part 64 of Title 47, Code of Federal Regulations.
History The Ministry of Communications was established in 1920 in connection with the division of the Ministry for Civil Service Affairs.
There is no other non-governmental body in India that regulates the advertising content that is released in India.
The act's structure of regulations based on type of network infrastructure failed to predict technological convergence and created awkward regulatory burdens for companies operating in multiple segments of media and telecommunications markets.
A sign placed near the transmitter is used to entice passersby (nearly always in automobiles) to tune in.
There were several subsidiary company and centers which went through many evolutions and were able to spread communication solutions inside Iran.
Technest Scholarship Technest is a national scholarship program in the field of ICT established under the Innovation and Digital Development Agency.
A number of projects have been transferred to the Ministry, which has expanded its staff by 8 employees to a total of 36.
All postal, telegraph and telephone issues were subjected to Ministry of Industry and Commerce, which controlled General Office of Posts and Telegraphs.
The ministry was created under a reorganization plan initiated by South Korean President Park Geun-hye in an effort to generate new sources of economic growth in the areas of science and information technology.
Organization The organization consists of the Minister, the First and Second Vice Ministers, the Headquarters Director, three offices (실), 19 bureaus (국) and offices (관), and 70 divisions (과) and teams.
See also Holy See Press Office Vatican News References External links Vatican Information Service official website
The proceedings are initiated by the Charter on the basis of claim submission, registered by the Secretariat of the Charter's Council, and forwarded to the council after checking of the formalities for the further decision.
ANACOM is also responsible for supporting the development of markets and of electronic and postal communications networks, for protecting the rights and interests of citizens, and providing Portuguese representation at international bodies relevant to the sector.
In a Report and Order released November 30, 1995, the Commission adopted rules designed to streamline the registration process and began requiring antenna structure owners (instead of licensees) to register these structures with the Commission.
It is a biweekly pamphlet available from the Government Printing Office Superintendent of Documents.
In the early 1930s, the Comintern Radio Station, with a power of 500 kW, was constructed along with a number of other stations with a power of 100 kW each.
Terrestrial television The term community channel may also refer to a conventional broadcast station — such as, CFTV-DT in Leamington, Ontario, CFSO-TV in Cardston, Alberta, CHCO-TV in St.
In its present form, HAKOM was established in 2008 after the merger of two earlier regulatory agencies, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency (HAT) and the Postal Services Council (VPU).
Requires such a closed meeting to be disclosed within two business days after the meeting, along with a list of persons in attendance and a summary of discussed matters, provided that such matters are not classified or otherwise exempt from disclosure.
In August 1945, the National Association of Broadcasters dropped its policy that air time for controversial issues should not be sold, except for political broadcasts.
The provision of a community channel is required by CRTC regulations governing the licensing of cable companies.
This also had an influence on the convergence of regulation resulting in the merging of the IBA and SATRA.
Redstone had been very particular about maintaining the integrity of Paramount Global's assets, especially CBS and Paramount Pictures.
Source: Note: The Major Trading Area (MTA) numbers in this table are based on alphabetical sorting, rather than population.
The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (郵政省, Yūsei-shō) was one of the ministries in the Japanese government.
Thus the network has registered a sevenfold growth since independence, with the focus of the expansion primarily in rural areas.
Free-to-air TV content must also adhere to additional restrictions, as outlined in Section 5 of the Content Code.
The CRTC's better-known simultaneous substitution policy, involving full replacements of American broadcasts with Canadian broadcasts of the same programs, was not mentioned in the decision.
In the media and broadcasting sector, most media ownership regulations were eased, and the cap on radio station ownership was eliminated.
History The Ministry was originally created on 31 August 1991 as Ministry of Print and Mass Media with Quanysh Sultanov being its first Minister.
It enforces media ethics which governs all media organizations in Fiji as well as regulating media content and implementing rules on advertising.
Electricity and gas In the electricity and gas market, the Agency is responsible for ensuring non-discriminatory third-party access to networks and regulating the fees.
When FCC Chair Kevin Martin replaced FCC Chair Michael Powell, he immediately changed FCC's hands-off policy and moved to impose 911 obligations on VoIP service providers.
Why, Massachusetts Department of Telecommunications and Cable Commissioner Stephen Michael Bloom, Oregon Public Utility Commission Chairman Robert M.
Pressombudsmannen (or press Ombudsman) is a person whose role in the Swedish print media is to determine whether the actions of a newspaper is in line with good journalistic practice.
The coordinates of the headquarters of the ministry are 00°18'49.0"N, 32°35'13.0"E (Latitude:0.313622; Longitude:32.586938).
The system served the public interest through public-service programming, popular entertainment, and simultaneous broadcast to a nationwide audience.
The number of telecom access has been increased in rural kebeles from only 60 in 2004/05 to 8 676 in 2007/08.
The Ministry of Information and Communications Technology is a government ministry, responsible for postal services, telephones and information technology in Zimbabwe.
546, the TCB and the BOC were integrated into a single entity now known as the National Telecommunications Commission.
Community stations (such as class A television service and LPFM stations in the U.S.) may be required to broadcast local content each week.
Chief Justice Laskin, writing for the majority of the Court, held that all television, even where exclusively produced and distributed within the province, fell within the definition of a federal undertaking under section 92(10)(a) of the Constitution Act, 1867.
History The ministry's predecessor was the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (MHEST), which was known as the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education before 2005.
The Dutch cable TV network is one of the densest in the world, with over 95 percent of Dutch households having access to cable TV.
After that, with the reorganization of ministries in March 2016, the MCIT merged with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Rail Transportation to become the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC).
Derzhkomteleradio is the main in the system of central bodies of the executive power in formation and realization of the state policy in the sphere of television, radio-broadcasting, informational and publishing spheres.
Administrative agencies Freeway Bureau Civil Aviation Administration Tourism Administration Highway Bureau Central Weather Administration Railway Bureau Maritime and Port Bureau Institute of Transportation Government corporations Chunghwa Post Co., Ltd.
See also Independent Communications Authority of South Africa References External links Official website
The Council meetings are held at least monthly, apart from situations when no cases have been prepared for consideration in the council, with no other issues pending.
The ordinance is mandated with authority for suspension of declaration of any newspaper, agency, or journalism professionals or groups running in the country within the framework of the constitution of Pakistan.
AT&T bid $18.2 billion, Verizon $10.4 billion, and Dish Network $13.3 billion but expected to reduce its payments to $10 billion by using subsidiaries.
Note 1: The FCC registration program requires the registering of terminal equipment and protective circuitry in accordance with Subpart C of part 68, Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Mycall app, MySpeed app and Do not disturb (DND 2.0) apps can be used to ensure that there is transparency between what consumers are paying for and what telecom operators are promising to provide at a certain rate.
Classifications There are classification systems for the following types of media: films, TV programs, video games, and arts entertainment (e.g., theatrical productions).
The Ministry of Information, Communications, Transport and Tourism Development (MICTTD) is a government ministry of Kiribati, headquartered in Betio, South Tarawa.
NBC further licensed 10 set-top box manufacturers of which Gospell Digital Technology Nigeria a leading indigenous IT company led by Sir.
The FCC also restricted the ability of telecommunications carriers to bundle telecommunications services with customer premises equipment (CPE), creating a new competitive market for telephones and modems.
At the time, the FCC Chairman Michael Powell said MTV and the CBS network's more than 200 affiliates and company-owned stations could be fined $27,500 a piece.
The Federal Office for Approvals in Telecommunications (German: Bundesamt für Zulassungen in der Telekommunikation, BZT) was a federal agency in Germany responsible for approving telecommunication devices.
He noted that a large majority of prime time television—59 out of 73 hours—consisted of undesirable television genera: quiz shows, movies, variety shows, sitcoms, and action-adventure series, the last of which included espionage thrillers and the then-ubiquitous Westerns.
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is the independent regulatory authority for the telecommunications industry in Nigeria.
Developmental and Demonstration applications, Radiolocation (RS) applications, Itinerant operations and station classes ending in the letter "I" or "L" and applications for 6.1 Meter Control Stations.
A musical selection may also qualify as Canadian content if it: Is an instrumental performance of a composition by a Canadian.
Both sites had a steady churn rate prior of 3-4% for Disney+ and 4-5% for Hulu prior to the upswing.
History The department was created in September 2015 following Malcolm Turnbull becoming prime minister, replacing the Department of Communications, and transferring responsibility for the arts from the Attorney-General's Department.
Decree 267/2015, which established ENACOM, provides that the directors serve four-year terms, which may be renewed once.
In return for the rights to offer service in an area, a cable company must provide certain community benefits requested by the LFA.
The original intent of the newspaper was unabashedly polemical and propagandistic in defence of the Papal States, adopting the name of a private pamphlet financed by a French Catholic legitimist group.
Another survey, conducted less than a year after the Do Not Call list was implemented, found that people who registered for the list saw a reduction in telemarketing calls from an average of 30 calls per month to an average of 6 per month.
Codified under the Article 19: Chapter I of the Constitution of Pakistan, it has jurisdiction to impose reasonable restrictions in the interest of the religion, the integrity, national security of Pakistan.
History 1930s Vatican Radio began broadcasting with the callsign HVJ on two shortwave frequencies using 10 kilowatts (kW) of power on 12 February 1931, with the pontificial message "Omni creaturae" of Pope Pius XI.
In particular, the Right2Know coalition, who advocate open government and whistleblowing, have championed the cause against FPB's draft proposal.
It was set up under the Telecommunications Act 1984 after privatisation of the nationalised operator BT.
Its current minister is the civil engineer Juan Carlos Muñoz Abogabir, who has held the position since March 11, 2022, under the government of Gabriel Boric.
A 9.1(1)(h) order (previously known as a 9(1)(h) order) is an order issued by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) pursuant to section 9.1(1)(h) of Canada's Broadcasting Act.
However, the general opinion among media practitioners is that PEMRA only acted as a licence issuing office that has implemented regulatory barriers for broadcasters.
"The successful interconnection among the six operators is a significant achievement for the telecom industry in Somalia.
In 2008, the industry attempted to adopt a middleware standard known as tru2way, which did not require a smart card and would support two-way services delivered directly to devices.
The names of every TV station were changed to "blood is on your hands" and other phrases used in the TV listings included "television and the authorities are lying" and "your hands are covered in blood from the deaths of thousands of Ukrainians and their children".
The Authority took over the functions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on 5 October 1992 as stipulated in the Broadcasting Services Act 1992.
11) Victims of sexual assault The press must not identify victims of sexual assault or publish material likely to contribute to such identification unless there is adequate justification and they are legally free to do so.
Top billing issues included unexpected charges, unexpected price increases, and failure to provide promised credits or refunds.
12 of 2003 (CAP .172) and the revision thereof (the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority Act, CAP .172 R.E.
The Advertising Regulatory Board (ARB) is an independent entity organised and financed by members of the marketing communications industry of South Africa.
List of ministers Minister of ICT and National Guidance Chris Baryomunsi (8 June 2021 - present) Minister of Information and Communications Technology Judith Nabakooba (14 December 2019 - 6 June 2021) Frank Tumwebaze (6 June 2016 - 14 December 2019) - Dr.
The agencies main responsibilities are controlling the telecom market, issuing frequency concessions and telephone numbers.
603, signed on February 17, 2007, transferred the TELOF and all other operating units of the CICT dealing with communications back to the DOTC.
The certification process can be complex and often requires extensive knowledge of regulatory frameworks and technical procedures.
Cultural references After a national test of Wireless Emergency Alerts (live since 2012) on 3 October 2018, a number of rumours and false statements spread on social media.
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Media Bureau to each broadcast station in the FCC Consolidated Database System (CDBS) and Licensing and Management System (LMS) databases, among others.
Ministry of Post and Telecommunications of the German Democratic Republic (German: Ministerium für Post- und Fernmeldewesen der DDR) was a ministry in the Council of Ministers of East Germany responsible for telecommunications and post topics.
The Ministry of Information and Communication Technology (MICT) is a department of the Namibian government.
The adjudication in full is subsequently posted on the ASA's website, and made available to the press and the general public.
Legal regulatory bodies that govern telecommunications systems in different countries are as follows.
Responsibilities Formulation and coordination of national communication and public information policy.
By the mid-1930s, Edwin Howard Armstrong had developed frequency modulation (FM) technology that could propagate signals widely with no static at all.
The word "fuck" occurs 14 times in the song; the words "bitch" and "dickhead" also appear once each.
Notes See also Digital Nasional Berhad (DNB) References External links Official website Official website (Malay) Archived 28 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Its board of directors consists of chairman Chris Seecharanm, Deputy chairman Jerome Khan and directors Mentor Baptiste, Dr Justin Koo, Avanti Supersad, Russel Romero, Suresh Boodoo, Dion Khan and Danielle Pounder.
The Ministry of Communications is one of the ministries that has a rapporteur in the Supreme Administrative Court of Sweden.
No comprehensive study of television broadcasting, for purposes of determining the efficacy of the commission's rules in achieving legislative and commission policy, had been made.
Responsibilities The mission of the ministry is to "work for a smart, able and creative Netherlands".
The Public Members and Independent Journalist Members are appointed by the Council on the nomination of the Chair.
Dredging of Klaipėda state sea port basin, construction and reconstruction of embankments (2004–2010), improving facilities of freight and passenger service.
Content ordering and billing for VOD and PPV services may be handled via gateway generated screens but additional options are requested.
OPTA also used to regulate this market, and was a mediator in disputes between providers, although OPTA decisions could be appealed in court.
The following independent authorities are affiliated to the DETEC for administrative purposes: Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB, formerly Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau and Investigation Bureau for Railway, Funicular and Boat Accidents).
The ministry was dissolved on February 28, 2008 and combined with the former Korean Broadcasting Commission to form the Korea Communications Commission.
Ministers All information ministers in chronological order are: See also Telecommunications in Namibia Mass media in Namibia Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia References External links Official website Ministry of Information and Communication Technology
The database was also used to determine eligibility for the COVID-era Emergency Broadband Benefit program and the successor Affordable Connectivity Program while those programs were active.
The current statutes of ANACOM entered into force in 2015, following approval of the Framework Law of Regulatory Bodies (Framework law for independent administrative entities with functions regulating the economic activity of the private, public and cooperative sector).
On November 18, 2004, however, the CRTC approved an application by cable companies to offer Fox News Channel on the digital cable tier.
Carlin was arrested for disturbing the peace when he performed the routine at a show at Summerfest in Milwaukee in 1972.
The Ministry of Science and ICT (MSIT; Korean: 과학기술정보통신부) is a ministry of the government of South Korea.
The commission was established in 2023 as a successor body to the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland.
The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology provides an annual report to inform the public of advancements in Afghanistan's technological sector.
In 2005, ETC installed fiber optic backbone that spans 4,000 km in six radiating directions: from Addis Ababa, to Dire Dawa, Djibouti, Dessie-Mekelle, Bahir Dar-Nekemte, Jimma and Hawassa, delivering digital radio and television, internet and other multimedia services.
The Finnish Transport and Communications Agency (Finnish: Liikenne- ja viestintävirasto, Swedish: Transport- och kommunikationsverket), shortened to TRAFICOM, is a Finnish government agency dealing with transport and communication in Finland.
These include commitments to truth and accuracy, respect for privacy, protection of sources, and the right of reply.
ATC allows the operators to reuse the same satellite spectrum in a terrestrial network to increase coverage and performance for their customers in highly shadowed regions e.g.
The main office is situated at the former site of the Roman Catholic Cathedral of Phnom Penh, destroyed by the Khmer Rouge in 1975.
Starting in the 1970s, a combination of technological change, court decisions, and updates to American policy goals enabled competitive entry by new companies into some telecommunications and broadcasting markets.
Following the cabinet restructuring, the Ministry from 22 January 1999 was part of the Ministry of Culture, Information and Public Accord.
local Rome time, except during the month of August and on public holidays in Vatican City (generally Holy Days of Obligation).
All active communications licenses were extended for an additional 10 years, limits on how many licenses one group may hold were relaxed, and license transfers were also permitted.
It is led by the Minister of Communications and Information Technology, who is nominated by the Prime Minister and is a member of the Cabinet.
The CRTC does not directly regulate rates, quality of service issues, or business practices for Internet service providers.
'Malware' enables a computer to be controlled remotely for illegal and harmful activities without the owner's knowledge.
Flagged content must be output only to "protected outputs" (such as DVI and HDMI ports with HDCP encryption), or in degraded form through analog outputs or digital outputs with visual resolution of 720x480 pixels (EDTV) or less.
Conducting frequency planning, allocation and registration procedures pertaining to radio and television broadcasting.
The NCC was charged with the responsibility of regulating the supply of telecommunications services and facilities, promoting competition, and setting performance standards for telephone services in Nigeria.
It is also the Cadre Controlling Authority for Indian Telecommunication Service, Indian Postal Service and Indian Post & Telecommunication Accounts and Finance Service.
According to television historians Castleman and Podrazik (1982), the networks had already purchased their fall 1961 programs and had locked in their 1961–62 schedules at the time Minow had made his speech, leaving them unable to make the adjustments Minow had hoped.
The Hellenic Telecommunications and Post Commission (Greek: Εθνική Επιτροπή Τηλεπικοινωνιών και Ταχυδρομείων, Ethniki Epitropi Tilepikoinonion kai Tachydromeion) or EETT is a Greek independent authority with administrative and financial autonomy.
In 1999, the "grand ministry" of the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation was created through a merger of the Ministry of Communications, the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation and parts of the Ministry of the Interior (which ceased at the same time).
Headquartered in The Hague it was created to ensure competitiveness in the newly opened Dutch market for telephony and other telecom activities.
The Ministry of Communication, and ICT was a Tanzanian government ministry that was established in February 2008.
In the event that more than one applicant applied for the same broadcast license a comparative hearing became necessary.
List of licensed discretionary services Former Category A services Category A services were those which had mandatory distribution by all licensed broadcast distribution undertakings.
It mandate also reportedly includes managing spectrum and numbering resources, setting service standards, promoting sector liberalisation and creating investment to ensure nationwide access to reliable and affordable communications services.
History 1923–1989 In South Africa, the first radio and television broadcasts were done in 1923 and 1976 respectively.
History The first 911 system was installed in Haleyville, Alabama, in February 1968, as a way to quickly connect a subscriber to the local police station.
The agency's executive director is in charge of HAKOM's staff, which performs expert, technical, and administrative roles.
The Licensing and Compliance Division is responsible for developing policy, issuing licenses and ensuring compliance in relation to the provision of broadcasting, telecommunications and postal services.
History In 2004, the MIIT began the Connecting Every Village Project to promote universal access to telecommunication and internet services in rural China.
In the US, a Basic Trading Area is a geographic region defined originally in the Rand McNally Commercial Atlas and Marketing Guide and used by the FCC where a Personal Communications Service can operate.
The radio spectrum is the section of the electromagnetic spectrum that spans from about 3 kilohertz to 300 gigahertz.
They were divided into railway construction brigades and automobile transportation brigades tasked with the construction and maintenance of transport infrastructure.
Since 2023, it has held membership on the International Telecommunication Union Council (among 48 countries), in addition to its ITU membership (among 193 countries) since 1949.
He also indicated he would crack down on what had been pro forma license renewals and hold public hearings in stations' cities of license, where he anticipated viewers could answer whether their stations served public interest.
It proposes to put a "floor" on the number of community LPFM stations in each media market, without considering the land area which the market covers.
It is tasked with to enforce ethical code practice across the country and to conduct inquiry through a commission appointed for hearings and decisions based on received-complaints.
It was established and named under an Administrative Arrangements Order made on 1 July 2022, after the 2022 Australian election, under the new Albanese government.
In response to local media criticism, it was reformed as an independent body involving privately owned media representatives.
The Australian Department of Communications and the Arts was a department of the Government of Australia charged with responsibility for communications policy and programs and cultural affairs.
History The Government of Nepal first created the Press Commission, a predecessor of the Press Council Nepal in 1957.
See also Fairness Doctrine Free speech Zapple Doctrine References External links In the Matter of The Mayflower Broadcasting Corporation.
Following the lodging of the complaint, the FCC proceeded to ask Pacifica for a response, then issued a declaratory order upholding the complaint.
The Joint Stock Company "Arna Media National Information Holding" was also transferred to the new ministry, however, it was later disbanded.
Bangladesh Press Council (Bengali: বাংলাদেশ প্রেস কাউন্সিল) is a quasi-judicial institution that protects freedom of speech and regulates the press in Bangladesh and is located in Segunbagicha, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
In April 2019, the FCC office of Inspector General issued an advisory alert to carriers and beneficiaries in connection to fraudulent enrollment practices.
Information and Consumer Affairs Unit The Information and consumer affairs unit (ICAU) oversees all information matters with the aim of increasing public awareness and protecting consumer interests while promoting transparency.
It reported to the provincial legislature through the minister of transportation and communications.
Product Identification: Certified equipment must be labeled with the ANATEL logo and an approval number, indicating conformity with the agency’s standards.
Cases and appeals can be referred to the Council either by the NRK director-general or by NRK viewers and listeners.
ASCI seeks to ensure that advertisements conform to its Code for Self-Regulation, which requires advertisements to be legal, decent, honest and truthful, and not hazardous or harmful while observing fairness in competition.
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal took over the functions of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in the 1970s.
Consumer Protection: Based on TRA's Consumer Protection Regulation, TRA protects consumers from breaches in advertising and other products or services.
Fernando Giménez Barriocanal Ann Carter Dino Cataldo Dell'Accio Graham Ellis Peter Gonsalves José María La Porte Ivan Maffeis James Martin, S.J.
Its mandated responsibilities include licensing, regulation, communications infrastructure development and the expansion of rural communications service.
The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (Dari: وزارت مخابرات ‏و تکنالوژی معلوماتی, Pashto: د مخابراتو او معلوماتي ټکنالوجۍ وزارت) (MCIT) is an organ of the government of Afghanistan.
Postal services The Agency's responsibility in the post market include the licensing of companies for postal services and the observation of the market.
History The Telecommunication Authority of Singapore (TAS) was the statutory board that acted as the national regulator and promoter of the telecommunication and postal industries in Singapore.
Radio can serve as an instrument of democracy only when devoted to the communication of information and the exchange of ideas fairly and objectively presented.
Through consensus decisions of its members, the council recommends procedures, policies, and technical means for efficient numbering administration, impartial to any telecommunication industry interest group.
Construction Machinery Training Institute Construction Machinery Training Centre (CMTC) was established in May 1986 with the assistance of the Government of Japan through Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
Spectrum sections to use Wireless requires bandwidth, and because of this, there would need to be enough of the spectrum obtained to sustain the bandwidth of the network.
Block D – Amid some controversy, no licenses were sold in Block D because the reserve price was not met.
Minow often remarked that the two words best remembered from the speech are "vast wasteland", but the two words he wished would be remembered are "public interest".
With the proposal of the Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act of 2004, it was to be determined by the Commissioner that any violator was subject to fines up to $275,000 for the first violation, $375,000 for the second violation, and $500,000 for the third and any subsequent violations.
Since the FM audience was generally older than the Top 40 AM audience, management gave DJs more independence in what they chose to play.
From 2011 to 2012, it was merged into the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry, and Water Economy.
The headquarters was originally in Gwacheon, Gyeonggi-do before relocating to Sejong City in 2019 with new buildings constructed in 2021.
Complaints regarding the practices of print media can be reported by the general public to the Press Ombudsman who determines whether a complaint should be brought before the Press Council.
Monsignor Lucio Adrian Ruiz, former head of the Vatican Internet Service, is secretary of the Dicastery and Paul Nusiner, former General Manager of Avvenire, is director general.
'It's an open secret at the office that Graham writes Bozell's columns, and has done so for years,' said one former employee.
In 2014, Time magazine, CNN and NPR picked up ThinkProgress reports on Chipotle Mexican Grill's including in their annual report a warning to investors regarding the risk of climate change on operations.
STATS made this case based on the fact that phthalates in children's toys have been cleared for use by the U.S.
In 2016, former Black Panther Marshall "Eddie" Conway became the host and producer of "Rattling the Bars," a weekly investigative program about prison systems in the US and abroad.
If you have indoctrination, it's important to know about it." Jay Nordlinger, the managing editor of National Review, wrote in 2002: Wading or clicking through MEMRI's materials can be a depressing act, but it is also illusion-dispelling, and therefore constructive.
And like others engaged in the narrative wars, it does not understand the difference between advocacy and accuracy." The Atlanta Journal-Constitution The Atlanta Journal-Constitution described CAMERA's place in a debate among various Jewish groups about an apology former U.S.
Censored Press The Censored Press was established in 2021 by Project Censored and the Media Freedom Foundation.
STATS has also disagreed with recommendations from Time that parents should discontinue use of soft vinyl toys, teethers, and similar products containing phthalates.
Bush administration, AIM accused the media of bias against the Iraq War, defended the Bush administration's use of torture, and campaigned to stop the United States from signing the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
See also Journalism ethics and standards Media bias (in the United States) Media monitoring service Accuracy in Media Fairness & Accuracy in Reporting Glasgow Media Group People for the American Way References External links Official website "Media Matters for America".
Activities HonestReporting reviews news articles and op-eds regarding Israel to check for and respond to alleged bias or fake news.
Equality Matters was a media and communications initiative in support of LGBT rights in the United States.
Believing that China should increase its soft power, Rao established Anti-CNN to counter what he contended was lies and distortions broadcast by Western media outlets like CNN.
According to the website, the former name "Anti-CNN" did not exclusively indicate its objection to the American company CNN, but also to many other Western media sources, including the BBC, Der Spiegel, la Repubblica, n-tv, Bild, Fox News and RTL.
news media leaders and an ongoing working group of experts from across the industry could identify and adopt common standards and best practices that promote transparency" by building on "newer efforts underway such as the Trust Project" among others.
Studies SOPA/PIPA A social study that states that the public debate was responsible for the Stop Online Piracy Act failing, and how it played its role, was proposed by five researchers of the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University.
It was an initiative of the Institute for the Development of Journalism (Projor) and an original project of the Laboratory for Advanced Studies in Journalism (Labjor) of the Universidade Estadual de Campinas (Unicamp).
The award was presented by Denis Halliday, the former United Nations Humanitarian Co-ordinator in Iraq, and himself a recipient of the award in 2003.
2002 The Bay Area media map : a youth organizer's guide to the media turf in the Bay Area and beyond.
"News abuse" refers to corporate media stories that were newsworthy, but presented in a slanted or non-newsworthy manner.
Others MRC sponsors MRCTV (formerly Eyeblast), a conservative-leaning YouTube-like video-hosting site.
In October 2006, the MRC created the Culture and Media Institute, the mission of which is "to advance, preserve, and help restore America's culture, character, traditional values, and morals against the assault of the liberal media." Robert H.
Writing in Z Communications in May 2014, Elliot Murphy said that Media Lens pay careful attention to the writings of George Orwell, "noting the prevalence of clichés which should arouse suspicion in any reader of the press or listener of parliamentary debates.
By 2018, the editorial team had reviewed more than 500 such PR news releases to go along with more than 2,500 reviews of news stories.
History Accuracy in Media (AIM) was founded in 1969 by Reed Irvine, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank.
They were some of the first journalists to cover the story of Anton Black, a 19 year old who died after being pinned to the ground by police in rural Maryland.
Despite concerns about the burden of compliance, Ad Fontes Media stated that it would cooperate with the FTC's inquiry.
The same year, inspired by GiveWell, Examine.com started publicly disclosing the mistakes they had committed and how they were fixing them.
Five editors involved in the campaign were sanctioned by Wikipedia administrators, who wrote that Wikipedia's open nature "is fundamentally incompatible with the creation of a private group to surreptitiously coordinate editing".
CAMERA runs a student-focused site containing specialized information available for countering misinformation.
They also assessed that, despite recent scandals involving research misconduct, the academic community was not interested in exposing wrongdoing and scientific errors.
Most of all, it is to inform Americans about our enormous, and too often invisible, personal connection to it.".
Ad Fontes Media uses a panel of analysts across the political spectrum to evaluate articles for the Chart.
According to the conservative news website Watchdog.org, the Tides Foundation, a foundation known to donate almost exclusively to left-wing organizations, reported giving CMD $160,000 in 2011, but that money did not appear on CMD's tax form 990.
Whitaker wrote that Media Lens had previously criticised The Guardian for quoting "unnamed American officials" in a story about Iraq.
Media analysis director Tim Graham and research director Rich Noyes regularly write Media Reality Check, another MRC publication documenting alleged liberal bias.
Name change In 2009 Anti-CNN changed its name and has expanded into English under the name April Media.
The BBC announced in July 2017 that it planned to sell the site at Caversham Park and move employees to London, which took place in May 2018.
The "Truthdig" website concomitantly posted an announcement that "Truthdig" was "going on a hiatus".
In the 1990s, NACLA stated that there was a pervasive culture of impunity in Latin America's new democracies.
The Great Translation Movement (simplified Chinese: 大翻译运动; traditional Chinese: 大翻譯運動; pinyin: Dà Fānyì Yùndòng; Zhuyin Fuhao: ㄉㄚˋㄈㄢ ㄧˋㄩㄣˋㄉㄨㄥˋ) is a Twitter account launched in 2022 during the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Rao was invited to attend an interview show by the China Central Television in the program of Oriental Horizon (东方时空).
She began developing Truthdig while at USC, and it launched immediately after Scheer was fired from the Los Angeles Times.
The report argued that under such circumstances, the creation of an independent Palestinian state would contribute to the undermining U.S.
Activities Publications Since 1993, Project Censored has published its annual list of the most under-reported news stories in the form of a book.
The top "Censored" news stories are identified through the Campus Affiliates Program, a collaborative effort between faculty and students at many colleges and universities.
Disinformation analysis Until 2014 Davis was primarily focusing on filmmaking and investigative reporting.
As of June 2024, the service rated Fox News at 69.5, Breitbart News at 49.5, The New Republic at 92.5, Mother Jones at 69.5, and The Washington Post at 100.
The Project was started in 2014 by Sally Lehrman, a journalist and former director of Santa Clara University's journalism ethics program at the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics and launched in November 2017.
It releases reports to counter what it calls "frequently inaccurate and skewed characterizations of Israel and of events in the Middle East" that it believes may fuel anti-Israel and anti-Jewish prejudice.
Discussions have run over hundreds of thousands of words and have included the input of over 100 editors.
When asked about these concerns, a representative responded that they were not concerned about the potential increase in anti-Asian attacks, saying "People in the civilized world possess logical thinking abilities and will distinguish between individuals and groups.
Its only power was that of publicity, drawing attention to media bias in hopes of the media's taking steps to acknowledge and correct it.
is a Colorado-based media watchdog and public benefit corporation, primarily known for its nonpartisan Media Bias Chart.
The article said that Guantanamo Bay detainees "are enjoying hotel living conditions" and that torture is what "left-wingers associate with anything that makes an accused terrorist uncomfortable".
A source may be credited with high "Factual Reporting" and still show "Political bias" in its presentation of those facts, for example through its use of emotional language.
Buss has argued that FAIR combines media criticism and partisan advocacy for progressive causes, and that their criticism of conservative groups is done "more on ideological grounds than on substance".
The MRC has received financial support from several foundations, including the Bradley, Scaife, Olin, Castle Rock, Carthage and JM foundations.
Over a 4-year span, the percentage of links that could be categorized with MBFC was found to be very consistent.
In August 2022, Twitter said it would revoke Bot Sentinel's access to its APIs, saying that Bot Sentinel's tracker activity was in violation of its API policies.
Abalkina created the Retraction Watch Hijacked Journal Checker in partnership with Retraction Watch.
In 2000, Don Hazen, the first executive director of the progressive news analysis and commentary website AlterNet, criticized Project Censored as "stuck in the past" with a "dubious selection process" that "reinforces self-marginalizing, defeatist behavior".
CMPA engages in health communication research, investigating the way in which scientific issues are conveyed in the media.
Of the ADL's hate symbol database, editors determined that "the rough consensus here is that the database is reliable for the existence of a symbol and for straightforward facts about it, but not reliable for more complex details, such as symbols' history".
At this point, Media Lens adherent then posts the email chain on the sect's website, without notice or permission [beginning a thread].
Author Sheldon Rampton was formerly an editor of PR Watch, once a website that was one of CMD's main outputs, but now run only as an archive, replaced by exposedbycmd.org.
Media cloud has similarly taken advantage of the functionality of stream algorithms to dynamically associate words to news as it crawls through various sources, and then provide its signature service of generating sentences based on words that the users are interested in and related media reports.
CMD has investigated and reported on donor-advised funds, referring to such donations as a form of "dark money".
FAIR publishes Extra!, a magazine of media criticism, and also produces the radio program CounterSpin, which features interviews with journalists, scholars, and activists on current media-related news stories.
Major media outlets including The New York Times, Associated Press, and Reuters refuted these claims using metadata to prove photography began well after the attacks started.
Reception In December 2002, eighteen months after the site's creation, Australian journalist John Pilger described Media Lens as "becoming indispensable".
Qin Gang's response was that "It is the irresponsible and unethical reports that infuriated our people to voice voluntarily their condemnation and criticism." Access to the site was reportedly blocked within the United Nations.
Furthermore, the organization's use of the term "censorship" to describe under-reported items, rather than governmentally censored material, has been called into question.
The Trust Project also looks for transparency in the reporting process, including explaining some editorial decisions for major stories, being easier for readers to contact and making other disclosures.
They were motivated to launch Retraction Watch to encourage this continuation and to increase the transparency of the retraction process.
YouTube channel In December 2010, YouTube removed Palestinian Media Watch's channel from its servers.
As of June 2024, Fox News and its talk shows are considered generally unreliable sources for scientific and political coverage.
They can still be cited for "uncontroversial self-descriptions", but reliable secondary sources are preferred.
In the 1980s, NACLA's reporting focused on the United States' role in the Central American Wars of the 1980s.
Tucker Carlson audio recordings In March 2019, MMfA released audio recordings of Fox News host Tucker Carlson in which he made remarks demeaning to women between 2006 and 2011 on the call-in show hosted by shock jock Bubba the Love Sponge.
In 1984, Burrelle's created Express to send the day's headlines and brief news summaries to executives via fax machine.
AllSides presents different versions of similar news stories from sources it rates as being on the political right, left, and center, with a mission to show readers news outside of their filter bubble and expose media bias.
In 2024, after a discussion on the reliability of Red Ventures–owned tech website ZDNET, a discussion was initiated of the reliability of all Red Ventures websites.
Career Film industry Davis began her career in the field of filming and production in 1995, working in film and television production as a director and writer.
In April 2025, the group uncovered a disinformation campaign by Storm-1516 targeting France, consisting of AI generated videos and fake news stories which were designed to incite racism and discredit French and Ukrainian leaders.
Some Chinese dissidents have expressed support for GTM because it creates "a dilemma for Chinese censorship authorities." Censoring extremist or disturbing content written by Chinese nationalists could alienate CCP supporters, but not censoring such content ends up constituting tacit approval.
Political scientist Anna Abalkina had developed a method for identifying hijacked journal domains based on an analysis of the archives of clone journals.
This meant that it cannot be used as a source for "exceptional claims" and that its reliability would be decided on a case-by-case basis for other scientific and political claims.
Other critics charge that while MEMRI does sometimes translate pro-US or pro-democracy voices in the regional media, it systematically leaves out intelligent criticism of Western-style democracy, US and Israeli policy and secularism.
He was formerly a temporary warehouse worker, an experience which he says impacts whose stories he covers and how.
The report was strongly criticized by AIM and the Reagan administration, and Bonner was pressured into business reporting, later deciding to resign.
named the NBC made-for-TV movie Serving in Silence: The Margarethe Cammermeyer Story the most biased program of the season; others included Roseanne and The X-Files.
This site first received global attention in the PRC Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang's regular press conference on 27 March 2008 when he was asked to comment on the website.
In a 2003 profile of the organization in The Boston Globe, Mark Jurkowitz wrote, "its detractors see CAMERA as a myopic and vindictive special interest group trying to muscle its views into media coverage.
In addition, it has a partnership with the Arab Journalism Observatory, based in Tunisia, which runs websites in Arabic and French., and collaborates with journalism scholars in Canada.
CAMERA has offered student representative positions that include compensation and training in Israel.
A Chinese analyst said that protests may only push Chinese government to adopt a more hard-line position.
Gable, Blades, and their associated organizations have produced lesson plans for schools on how to navigate political conversations and helped create Mismatch, a platform to connect students who differ politically and geographically.
The first director of STATS was David Murray, who previously worked for The Heritage Foundation and was later chief scientist for the U.S.
Carmon admitted this was an error in translation but defended combining the two replies, as both questions referred to the same subject.
These reflect the consortium's shared principles through policies on ethics, corrections, anonymous sourcing, and fact-checking standards.
Yet, his work was called a "hoax" and "discredited" by conservatives such as Ann Coulter, it was also disputed by the American Spectator, which caused Scaife to end his funding of the Arkansas Project with the publisher.
This is supposed to embarrass the apologist for the corporate media/torture/Tony Blair and expose him to ridicule by other sect members".
After General Motors, OnStar, and Motel 6 pulled their advertising, Schlessinger said she would not renew her syndication contract set to expire in December 2010.
Bozell was an outspoken critic of Donald Trump during the 2016 Republican primaries, describing him as "the greatest charlatan of them all", "a "huckster" and "shameless self-promoter".
Der Spiegel however refused to respond to the charges made, implying that the site is part of "Chinese propaganda".
April Media (under the then-name Anti-CNN) has contended that Western media has frequently implied that it has been the Chinese police, and not rioters, who have killed people.
See also Ad Fontes Media Global Disinformation Index Ground News Media Bias/Fact Check NewsGuard Our.News == References ==
In September 2025, they found that Moldova was targeted by over 40 false narratives, with the goal of undermining President Maia Sandu and Moldova's potential EU accession ahead of parliamentary elections.
CBS News under president Richard Salant notably supported the Council, including Salant's serving as NNC chairman, but journalists within CBS itself, including Walter Cronkite, did not.
The CMI website remained online through the end of 2010, before it was folded in the Media Research Center website in 2011.
Each issue profiles what he perceives as biased or inaccurate reports about politics in the American news media.
The daily press review has a correspondents network that stretches across Europe and surveys the press for opinion pieces from 30 different European countries, namely the EU, the UK, Russia, Ukraine, Switzerland, and Turkey.
This process is not unique to Media Cloud and in fact is an application of the recently popular stream algorithms.
The chart markets its analysis to advertisers looking for third-party rankings of news sources in assessing brand safety, and it is generally considered a simple guide but not a solely authoritative source for understanding media biases.
The project focused on student media literacy and critical thinking skills, with particular attention to issues of censorship by the mainstream news media in the United States.
The investigation is part of broader government scrutiny into media rating firms and their role in evaluating news sources for misinformation, hate speech, and deceptive content.
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued civil investigative demand (CID) letters to several media rating firms, including Ad Fontes Media, requiring them to disclose details about their operations, finances, methodologies, and industry relationships.
After the newspaper changed ownership and eliminated these local editions, Kaufman pursued a master's degree in journalism at the USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.
Reported on BBC News (17 January 2011), BBC Monitoring cut 72 posts following a £3 million cut in funding over the next two years.
History The Founder and Publisher is Gary Schwitzer, a health care journalist for more than four decades who is now an Adjunct Associate Professor in the University of Minnesota School of Public Health.
Funding Although administratively and editorially part of the BBC, until 2013 BBC Monitoring did not receive any funding from the licence fee; instead it was funded directly by its stakeholders as well as by subscriptions from official and commercial bodies throughout the world.
Gorenberg said: "CAMERA is ready to exempt itself from the demands for accuracy that it aims at the media.
The archives were named for Tom Lantos, the only Holocaust survivor to serve in United States Congress.
The main conclusion of the study is that the diversification of the political views rather than polarization of the debate enabled the creation of consensus which pressured the policymakers to vote against the bill.
In 2012, a campaign by HRC led to a Canadian Broadcast Standards Council investigation after local politician Stéphane Gendron made controversial comments on the French-language V Television Network.
Brock said that a central goal of the group would be to monitor journalists and outlets for misleading conservative claims and then flag them.
Its lessons and materials, initially aimed at educators and students in middle school and high school, "are apolitical, created with input from real journalists," Mark Sullivan and Tim Bajarin of Fast Company wrote in 2018.
Another report of the BMI accused the networks of bias in favor of the Gardasil vaccine, a vaccine intended to prevent cervical cancer.
These are: (1) use of wording and headlines (2) fact-checking and sourcing (3) choice of stories and (4) political affiliation.
Haaretz's editor-in-chief, David Landau, refused to comment on the conference, calling it "a matter of policy and principle" not to respond to CAMERA, which he called "McCarthyite".
CAMERA tracked publications that printed the quotation, such as The New York Times, the Chicago Tribune, Boston Globe, the Toronto Star, and Time, which later issued corrections.
In late January 2024, AIM had a doxxing truck at CU Boulder in Colorado; one professor moved class online as a consequence.
Beginning in 1975, Accuracy in Media began purchasing participating interests in major media companies, allowing Irvine to attend annual shareholder meetings.
ALEC Exposed CMD hosts the ALEC Exposed website, which is a wiki focusing on the American Legislative Exchange Council and the political activities of the Koch brothers.
Otero first published the Media Bias Chart, a graphic that helped viewers visualize media bias in the United States, on the blog.
Alexander previously worked as a regional director for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), a pro-Israel lobby group.
History Establishment on Reddit (February 24–March 2) The Great Translation Movement originated on several Chinese-language subreddits.
Following its November 2017 launch, Facebook, Google and Twitter, also began to deploy the new trust indicator symbols to "help assure users of the reliability of their content and combat fabricated stories".
Years ago, Solzhenitsyn exhorted, "Live not by lies." We might say, in these new circumstances, "Live not by ignorance about lies, either." Anyone still has the right to avert his eyes, of course.
Otero responded directly to this analysis and defended the methodology, recognizing limits but defending the tool against some specific criticisms.
AIM criticized the media for not covering a 1995 study on climate change, which it argued cast doubt on climate change.
Eurotopics, self-styled euro|topics, is a European news aggregator published by the German federal government agency Bundeszentrale für politische Bildung.
This type of functionality first noticeably emerged with network managers trying to dynamically see which sites have the highest traffic volumes.
Twitter and Facebook have incorporated features for trending news and topics similar to what Media Cloud aims to do.
The group's founders were inspired by the Cuban Revolution and had a goal to challenge the elitist conventions expressed as "national interests" of the American people and to express the interests of those fundamentally opposed to American elitism.
The CBS crime drama Cold Case has been twice criticized by the CMI for alleged anti-Christian prejudice in two episodes.
The study also reported that the coverage for the Paris attacks exceeded the coverage for the Baga massacre even in Nigeria.
CMPA's signature activity is its "rapid response" studies of media coverage of current issues, which appear quickly enough to influence ongoing public debates, such as presidential campaigns, Senate confirmation hearings, and major policy debates in Congress.
On June 21, 2025 Hunterbrook broke the news that B-2 stealth bombers had launched from an Air Force base in Missouri, indicating the US would join Israel’s bombardment of Iran.
In 2003, the MRC urged advertisers to pull sponsorship from The Reagans, a miniseries about President Ronald Reagan to be shown on CBS.
In 2023, news producer Fady Hanona was discovered by HonestReporting to have posted antisemitic social media posts, leading news outlets he previously worked for such as The New York Times, The Guardian, and others to cut ties with him.
Magazine NACLA Report on the Americas is the political magazine produced by the North American Congress on Latin America.
Foundation and funding Bozell and a group of other American conservatives founded MRC on October 1, 1987.
"CAMERA: Fighting Distorted Media Coverage of Israel and the Middle East: An Interview with Andrea Levin" (Exec.
Contributors to Fathom include journalists David Landau and Aluf Benn of Haaretz, Dave Rich, scholar David Hirsh, and author Steven Lee Beeber.
The debates are public and archived, allowing people to see how a reliability assessment was reached.
In January 2014 the Project for Excellence in Journalism was renamed the Pew Research Center's Journalism Project.
The fact-checking site Misbar alleged that several Palestinian journalists were targeted by the military or had their homes bombed shortly after being identified by HonestReporting.
Uses and application Media Cloud was used from September 2010 through January 2012 to obtain data for a study at the Berkman Center for Internet & Society that analyzed a set of 9,757 online stories related to the COICA-SOPA-PIPA debate.
Andre Oboler, a Legacy Heritage Fellow at the Israeli non-governmental organization NGO Monitor, responded, "Electronic Intifada is manufacturing a story." Excerpts of some of the emails were published in the July 2008 issue of Harper's Magazine under the title "Candid camera".
The site highlights journalists and non-journalists (writers, musicians, producers, scientists, etc.) perceived as having liberal viewpoints.
Abortion A study by Julia Wejchert and Katherine Ida made use of Media Cloud to analyze the nature of the news coverage about the abortion debate, focusing on the most shared on social media.
Bozell's salary during this year was reported as close to $345,000, with nearly $122,000 in additional compensation from the organization and related organizations.
In 2025, it raised additional capital from the Ford Foundation and other investors at a $100 million valuation, double that of the seed round.
Palestinian Media Watch, together with the Middle East Media Research Institute (MEMRI), were the first to raise concerns in relation to the show.
In May 2024, Hunterbrook generated controversy after Semafor reported that Koppelman had invested in ZBiotics, which Semafor called a competitor to anti-hangover drink Safety Shot, the subject of a Hunterbrook investigation.
It described 2008 presidential candidate Barack Obama as "the most radical candidate ever to stand at the precipice of acquiring his party's presidential nomination" and said it was "apparent that he is a member of an international socialist movement".
According to The Washington Post, while Irvine worked at the Federal Reserve, co-workers he would eat lunch with often "complained that conservative points of view were not adequately reported in the media." In his way of changing this, Irvine formed AIM.
In short, "the Kremlin's bullhorn was weaponized, spewing out blatant propaganda and outright fakes", Davis stated.
These topic-focused lists are maintained by WikiProjects that evaluate sources using both Wikipedia's reliability guidelines and supplemental subject-related criteria created by the WikiProjects themselves.
Finkelstein said in response that MEMRI edited the television interview he gave in order to falsely impute that he was a Holocaust denier.
As of 2024, Truthdig has won six Webby Awards, four awards from the Society of Professional Journalists, and forty first-place awards from the Los Angeles Press Club, among others.
HonestReporting Canada HonestReporting Canada (HRC) was founded in 2003 to monitor Middle East news coverage in Canada.
The company's suite of services includes media monitoring, media outreach, customized reporting, analytical research, publishing, data services, and professional services.
The most powerful medium for this is (naturally) a Washington-based think-tank, the Middle East Media Research Institute (MEMRI), started in 1998 by the former Israeli intelligence officer and Arabist Yigal Carmon.
Bouzy was himself responsible for initiating a discourse on Twitter that criticized Harry's brother and sister-in-law Prince William and Catherine, the Prince and Princess of Wales, for their appearance by tweeting that they were "aging in Banana years".
Scientific studies, using its ratings, found that ratings from Media Bias/Fact Check show high agreement with an independent fact checking dataset from 2017, NewsGuard, and BuzzFeed journalists.
Among other comments, Carlson called rape shield laws "unfair", defended Mormon fundamentalist church leader Warren Jeffs, who had been charged with child sexual assault, and called women "extremely primitive".
Quite frankly a number of these (corporate donors) like Koch Industries...they're advancing not just an ideological agenda but an agenda that helps advance the bottom line of their corporate interests.
One study released by the organization in June 2007 claimed that television viewing time correlated directly with one's liberal attitude, even possibly degrading to moral attitudes.
The Daily Mail can still be used as a source in an about-self fashion, when the Daily Mail itself is the subject of discussion.
Many companies are taking advantage of the ability to analyze and organize this new data that media cloud can create.
The media organizations strongly refuted allegations that they had any prior knowledge of the Hamas attack.
Methodology As of 2021, the methodology of the Media Bias Chart was described thusly: The Ad Fontes methodology consists of multi-analyst ratings of news sources along seven categories of bias and eight of reliability.
Dov Waxman, professor of Israel Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, said that if "Wikipedia and other sources and the journalists start ignoring the ADL's data, it becomes a real issue for Jewish Americans who are understandably concerned about the rise of antisemitism".
Closure In mid-2019, after the site had experienced declining revenue, traffic and donations, CAP put ThinkProgress up for sale.
Fact checks are carried out by independent reviewers who are associated with the International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN) and follow the International Fact-Checking Network Fact-checkers' Code of Principles, which was developed by the Poynter Institute.
In December 2013, MMfA's then-Executive Vice President Angelo Carusone said "The war on Fox is over.
Awards The 1995 edition of Censored: The News That Didn’t Make the News—And Why won the 1996 Firecracker Alternative Book Award for Nonfiction.
See also Alternative media Independent media References External links Official website The Real News's channel on YouTube
FAIR believes that corporate sponsorship and ownership, as well as government policies and pressure, restricts journalism and therefore distorts public discourse.
On June 13, 2025, such a truck was parked outside Highland Hospital, in Oakland, California, displaying the name and face of a staff member, and claiming that she is a "violent antisemite".
Bot Sentinel receives funding through donations on its website, which allows its browser extensions and hate trackers to be used free of charge by the general public.
Its mission, said Bozell in a 1992 lecture at The Heritage Foundation, was to "document the left-wing antics within the entertainment industry".
James Loeffler, a professor of modern Jewish history at Johns Hopkins University, said the English Wikipedia's decision was a "significant hit" to the ADL's credibility.
Media monitoring 2007–2012 In 2007 widespread criticism was generated around a children's television program, Tomorrow's Pioneers, aired from Hamas-run studios in the Gaza Strip.
In August 2011, the United States Department of State's Office of International Religious Freedom in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, awarded MEMRI a $200,000 grant.
Electronic Intifada co-founder Ali Abunimah said his group would never encourage a similar email campaign.
NLP board Members of NLP's board of directors have backgrounds in journalism, communications, education, technology, and philanthropy.
By 1976, TNC had developed a model for expanding the emerging state network: go to the states and offer to hire and train a staff of biologists, establish an operating center, and, two years later, let the state take over operations.
Common Types of Terrestrial Plants Four main groupings for terrestrial plants are bryophytes, pteridophytes, gymnosperms, and angiosperms, have been existing for many years and have allowed diversity into our ecosystems .
Surrounded mostly by pastures, coffee plantations and other agricultural areas, Las Cruces includes a relatively small 270 Ha forest fragment that ranges from 900–1300 m.a.s.l.
During the second stage, it was noted that the later group agreed with Steward and White, while the other disagreed.
Paleoecological methods The aim of paleoecology is to build the most detailed model possible of the life environment of previously living organisms found today as fossils.
The species is distinguished by its canoe-shaped, strongly concave leaves and loosely to densely ciliate stem surface – characteristics that had previously led Rudolf M.
Cooperation with IPCC In June 2021, IPBES and IPCC released a co-sponsored workshop report on biodiversity and climate change.
backyards, parks, gardens, botanical gardens, and remnant patches of natural habitat) can yield taxa new to science, showing that species discovery is not confined to remote wildlands.
Participating institutions, all in England, included the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, the University of Oxford, the Natural History Museum and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC).
Particle analysis Particle levels in water (or air) can be measured with a turbidity meter and analyzed with a particle counter.
Nature's contributions to people The 5th IPBES Plenary in 2017 noted that the concept of nature's contributions to people would be used in current and future IPBES assessments.
As these toxins are passed up the food chain they accumulate in fatty tissue and become increasingly concentrated in predators (see bioaccumulation).
Recent research has shown that Kolmogorov systems can exhibit complex behaviors, including the existence of strange attractors and robust permanent subsystems, implying that even deterministic predator-prey interactions can lead to unpredictable long-term dynamics.
Asia Nature Challenge also has helped focus and fill taxonomic data gaps through coordinating with projects like the Big Butterfly Count in Nepal.
Lord Howe Island, which remained uninhabited until the arrival of Europeans in the South Pacific in the 18th century, lost much of its endemic avifauna when it became a whaling station in the early 19th century.
It examines why people continue environmentally damaging behaviour, and motivates them to adopt sustainability.
See also Carpet beetle Anthrenus fuscus (commonly confused species) References External links Museumpest.net Museum Beetle Factsheet
In a number of countries, the phrase "trading as" (abbreviated to t/a) is used to designate a trade name.
Controversy Debates exist and remain unresolved over the appropriate uses of PVA in conservation biology and PVA's ability to accurately assess extinction risks.
The size, shape, and composition of an organism's body can influence its temperature regulation, with larger organisms generally maintaining a more stable internal temperature than smaller ones.
Its pygidium has a terminal anus, with two pygidial cirri being laterally inserted, as well as an unpaired appendage that is placed ventrally.
Ecosystem ecology approaches organisms and abiotic pools of energy and nutrients as an integrated system which distinguishes it from associated sciences such as biogeochemistry.
If the research leads to commercialized drugs, 50% of the royalties are invested into community development funds run by indigenous people.
On the other hand, Earth analogs may be quite numerous, at least in the Milky Way galaxy, given the large number of planets.
It encourages all actors in the area to delete unnecessary computer files, emails, unused applications, and old conversation histories on social networks, and to give a second life to digital equipment by opting for repair or reuse.
This model, and a few other well-known population models, can be explicitly derived from individual-level processes assuming contest competition and a random distribution of individuals among resources.
A 2009 study verified the original findings of the controversial 2001 study, by finding transgenes in about 1% of 2000 samples of wild maize in Oaxaca, Mexico, despite Nature retracting the 2001 study and a second study failing to back up the findings of the initial study.
Members of the sulfur-oxidizer genera Thiovulum were much more abundant and more metabolically active in Air-bell II than the Lake Room, but are dominant in both hypoxic and normoxic cave lake waters.
Climate change is also linked to several issues relating to extinct species and animals' quality of life.
Identified ecosystem consequences of losing marine biodiversity: changes in abundance and diversity have negatively impacted ecosystem productivity and resilience, and compromised water quality, fishery yields and other ecosystem services.
Modern computer techniques can yield new ways to view and analyze existing information, as well as predict future situations (see niche modelling).
Louis, she worked as a postdoctoral research assistant at University of Central Florida and as a graduate research assistant before that.
For example, the loss of wildebeest from the Serengeti led to an increase in un-grazed grass, leading to more frequent and intense fires, causing the grassland to turn from a carbon sink to a carbon source.
Theories of epigenetic inheritance have their basis in theories such as that which was posited by French scientist Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, otherwise known as Lamarckian inheritance.
Murat Eren (Meren) is a computer scientist known for his work on microbial ecology and developing novel, open-source, computational tools for analysis of large data sets.
Therefore, the selective pressures created from the modifications must remain for the next generation in order for it to be deemed ecological inheritance.
Yet in areas where there are few management initiatives in place, the abundance and diversity of marine animal populations continues to decline, mostly in direct relation to multiple human impacts.
In this case, phylogenetic niche conservatism might best be considered a form of phylogenetic signal reserved for traits with broad-scale ecological ramifications (i.e.
When US timber importer Robert Larson noticed the tree's usefulness in 1971, he conducted research over the next decade on the pesticidal properties in the neem extract called Margosan-O.
The East African Wildlife Society (EAWLS) is a membership-based non-governmental conservation organization.
Additionally, being less abundant implies limited growth, and being on the smaller end of the cell size spectrum.
Furthermore, developing models to predict the response of ecosystems to changes contributes to finding a particular management strategy.
Infonatura was a nearly identical service providing information on Latin American wildlife and ecosystems.
In oceanography, phytodetritus is the organic particulate matter resulting from phytoplankton and other organic material in surface waters falling to the seabed.
Because water buffers temperature fluctuations, terrestrial ecosystems usually experience greater diurnal and seasonal temperature fluctuations than do aquatic ecosystems in similar climates.
Rats had wiped out more than 90% of the seabirds on South Georgia, and the sponsors hoped that once the rats were gone, it would regain its former status as home to the greatest concentration of seabirds in the world.
One culture might view drought as a form of natural variability in the environment and store surplus food for these times.
This mission entails establishing agreements with governmental authorities governing the respective jurisdictions of these wilderness areas.
The site has become so popular that fishermen steal from each other, and other states apply for the next subway cars to be dumped in their waters.
For many years he had a TV show about scientific rights and wrongs in movies in the official television channel of the University of Costa Rica.
He was an early proponent of ecology, who helped the growth of plant ecology as a discipline in England, and later became Professor of Biology at Huddersfield Technical College.
(BEI) is a 501(c)(3), non-profit organization dedicated to the use of science and education to increase public knowledge of wildlife and habitat conservation and promote sustainable coexistence between people and nature.
High-forest theory Heinrich Cotta: high-forest theory In his 1817 work Anweisungen zum Waldbau (Directions for Silviculture), Heinrich Cotta posited that if humans abandoned his native Germany, in the space of 100 years it would be "covered with wood".
While irrigation return flows are point sources, in the United States they are expressly exempted from discharge permit requirements under the Clean Water Act.
Instead, pioneering species will occupy, compete for space, and establish themselves in the newly opened habitat.
Through a construction of sluices, the area is in close contact with the river Schelde: water is flowing in at high tide, and out at low tide.
Some studies also indicated that the wolves affected the grazing intensity and patterns of the elk because they felt less secure when feeding.
Fresher ditches may support rare animals, such as the great silver water beetle (Hydrophilus piceus) and the great raft spider (Dolomedes plantarius), and a wide range of pondweeds (Potamogeton and relatives).
that phylogenetic information can help "predict" species traits—to be evidence of phylogenetic niche conservatism.
See also Global Ocean Data Analysis Project (GLODAP) Joint Global Ocean Flux Study (JGOFS) World Ocean Atlas (WOA) World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE) External links GLOBEC website
The model was an improvement over earlier predator-prey models, notably the Lotka–Volterra equations, by incorporating more realistic biological assumptions and providing a qualitative analysis of population dynamics.
They believe that these have a history of independence from humans and should no longer be considered as domesticated.
Kyrou, together with his graduate and undergraduate students at the International Peace & Conflict Resolution Division of the School of International Service at The American University in Washington DC continue their effort to expand the practical and theoretical potential of Peace Ecology.
With regard to the term phylogenetic niche conservatism, many authors have taken a significant result here—i.e.
Following Marco Polo's journey through Southwestern India and China, Christopher Columbus expanded upon the "Spice Route" with the help of the Spanish Court.
Dumas and Boussingault (1844) provided a key paper that is recognized by some to be the true beginning of biogeochemistry, where they talked about the cycle of organic life in great detail.
With the addition of 'compliance' mechanisms and financial rules, these issues took up most negotiating time in the Governing Body meeting.
The COVID-19 pandemic provided the opportunity to convey eight easy recipes for a CyberCleanUp, focused on data cleaning, to the World Cleanup Day community, who were accustomed to cleaning up nature and were now confined to their homes.
Remnant natural areas are characterized by the presence of "conservative" plants and animals—organisms that are restricted to or highly characteristic of areas that have not been disturbed by humans.
Ocean in Google Earth contains a layer devoted to the Census of Marine Life that allows users to follow scientists from the Census on expeditions and see marine life and features found during the Census.
It is a strip, preferably raised, planted with grasses (bunch grasses) and/or perennial plants, within a crop field or a garden, that fosters and provides habitat for beneficial insects, birds, and other fauna that prey on pests.
Biodiversity Institute of Oxford eMonocot – a web taxonomic resource for plants of new scale and depth.
Over 22% of its land area is included in the Natura 2000 network, including 62 special conservation areas and 88 types of protected landscape natural habitats.
One of the most important genera of forams is Globigerina; vast areas of the ocean floor are covered with "Globigerina ooze", so named by Murray and Renard in 1873, dominated by the shells of planktonic forms.
Cloning Pyrenean Ibex The Pyrenean ibex (Capra pyrenaica pyrenaica) is an Iberian ibex subspecies that was the first animal to go extinct twice.
For example, in mountain gorillas, Gorilla beringei, higher ranking females had higher average food-site resident times and higher aggression and avoidance while eating than lower ranking females.
I visualize in my mind clearly and vividly how the suffering animals and plants feel in their situation.
Some critical areas of interest within macroecology include the study of species richness, latitudinal gradients in species diversity, the species-area curve, range size, body size, and species abundance.
Véloroutes voies vertes l'avenir est aux circulations douces (PDF) (in French).{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link) Réseau vert européen, actes du colloque de Lille.
Despite this reduced ATP efficiency, C4 is an evolutionary advancement, adapted to areas of high levels of light, where the reduced ATP efficiency is more than offset by the use of increased light.
In areas with strong prevailing winds, expansion through layering on the sheltered sides of plants means that they may grow preferentially on the protected sides and gradually move downwind across the landscape.
Local Futures invites communities from around the world to join in celebrating WLD by showcasing their localization efforts through hosting events such as local feasts, film screenings of Local Futures' and other localization focused films and panel discussions.
The name in Proto-Norse, erafaz and Old Norse, jarfr, lives on in the regular Icelandic name jarfi, regular Norwegian name jerv, regular Swedish name järv and regular Danish name jærv.
They are prominent throughout Australia, parts of Argentina, the Cerrado biogeographic region of Bolivia, Paraguay and Brazil, and in the Mediterranean biomes that cover the Mediterranean Basin, California, Chile, and the Cape Province of South Africa.
Career In 2014 she was a Green Talent awardee of the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
As part of this she is attached to Association Vahatra in Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar while based at the Kew Madagascar Conservation Centre on Madagascar.
However, just over half of all reactive nitrogen entering the biosphere is attributable to anthropogenic activity such as industrial fertilizer production.
Biosphere–atmosphere fluxes and ICOS From the late 1990s Ceulemans’ group participated in European carbon-flux research networks (including CARBO-EUROPE) and in national coordination of greenhouse-gas observation infrastructure.
Scientific coordination promotes integration among the working groups and iDiv members who are located throughout Central Germany.
Researchers studying New York City wastewater have also cited rats as the potential source of "cryptic" SARS-CoV-2 lineages, due to unknown viral RNA fragments in sewage matching mutations previously shown to make SARS-CoV-2 more adept at rodent-based transmission.
In this situation (called the grey goo scenario) out-of-control self-replicating nanorobots consume entire ecosystems, resulting in global ecophagy.
Journals As part of its professional development and education mission the AAVP publishes: Veterinary Parasitology — along with Elsevier References External links "American Association of Veterinary Parasitologists".
Approaches to assessing it "face high uncertainties and still require a considerable amount of empirical and theoretical research." Other authors have sought a numerical index of ecosystem health that would permit quantitative comparisons among ecosystems and within ecosystems over time.
Beetle banks are used to reduce or replace the use of insecticides, and can also serve as habitat for birds and beneficial rodents.
Drawing on the former, it emphasizes temporality and processes of becoming, while its engagement with post-structural thought leads to a focus on ontological hybridity.
For example, the intellectual property for Indian products like tamarind, turmeric, and Darjeeling tea have been taken and patented by private corporations in historically colonial countries.
Alien plants in temperate weed communities: prehistoric and recent invaders occupy different habitats.
Humans may also create an ecology of fear by reintroducing predators into areas where they no longer live; the moral philosopher Oscar Horta argues against such reintroductions, asserting that they conflict with the well-being and interests of the animals already living in the environment.
Radioecology is the branch of ecology concerning the presence of radioactivity in Earth's ecosystems.
Whilst it has been applied to water research projects in nine pilot basins, the concept is generic and can be applied to any project where accelerating change being considered as a central development objective.
Many copepods are then captured by mysidae, krill and smallest fish like the juveniles of atlantic herring - and in each step of the foodchain the toxin concentrations increase by the factor of 10.
Scholars suggest that these events might result in ecocide in that they would undermine the capacity of the Earth's biological population to repair itself.
The Census began in a formal sense with the announcement in May 2000 of eight grants totaling about 4 million US$ to create OBIS, as reported in Science magazine, 2 June.
Where the project subject is directly related to nature and environmental issues, the Foundation in individual cases also consider supporting projects outside Germany.
Instead, it focuses on diversity and it looks at how different individuals and groups operate in and adapt to their total environments through a variety of behaviors, technologies, organizations, structures and beliefs.
Examples of Antibiosis Antibiosis in biotech and medical treatment The study of antibiosis and its role in antibiotics has led to the expansion of knowledge in the field of microbiology.
History Thermal desorption first appeared as an environmental treatment technology in 1985 when it was specified in the Record of Decision for the McKin Company Superfund site within the Royal River watershed in Maine.
It is one of a number of local Biological Records Centres across Britain which together aim to give complete geographic coverage of the UK.
Climate change or other anthropogenic perturbations can decrease productivity and disrupt global biogeochemical cycles.
The plan also includes habitat stewardship and educational activities designed to involve stakeholders and inform the public.
When defined as such, phylogenetic niche conservatism is therefore nearly synonymous with phylogenetic signal.
Remnant areas are also described as "biologically intact" or "ecologically intact." Remnant natural areas are often used as reference ecosystems in ecological restoration projects.
In contrast with Bailey's methodology, Puerto Rico ecologist Ariel Lugo and coauthors identified ten characteristics of an effective classification system.
Bradley Anholt is a Canadian ecologist, currently a Canada Research Chair in experimental ecology at University of Victoria.
Invasive species can have profound effects on ecosystems by changing ecosystem structure, function, species abundance, and community composition.
The IPBES Bureau has agreed, on the basis of a proposal by the secretariat for the purposes of brand unity and brand recognition, to adopt a common pronunciation of the IPBES acronym.
Examples of bacterivores Caenorhabditis elegans Ceriodaphnia quadrangula Diaphanosoma brachyura Vorticella Paramecium Paratrimastix pyriformis Many species of protozoa Many benthic meiofauna, e.g.
This experiment was conducted on the rocky intertidal because of its accessibility and the large amount of previous research done on the species living there.
In Bhutan, it has been found growing on damp mossy logs in shady ravines within wet mixed broad-leaved forest.
McWilliam, and was fully launched on 12 July 2002 when it was formally opened by Sir Martin Doughty of English Nature.
This is not to be confused with the Boulding Award established since 1990 by the Association for Interdisciplinary Studies.
The tool can inform policy by examining to what extent a nation uses more (or less) than is available within its territory, or to what extent the nation's lifestyle and population density would be replicable worldwide.
Applications Forest sciences Since many processes in forest ecology take a long time (decades or centuries) to develop, chronosequence methods are used to represent and study the time-dependent development of a forest.
The quality of range forage is influenced by factors such as plant species, season, geographical location, and range improvement techniques.
Soils are complex systems and their complexity resides in their heterogeneous nature: a mixture of air, water, minerals, organic compounds, and living organisms.
The rectum of a freshly killed striped hyena is likewise used by homosexuals and bisexuals to attract young men.
Aeroecology research groups at both the University of Oklahoma and the University of Delaware continue to advance the development and integration of remotely sensed data to quantify, qualify, and track biological utilization of the lower aerosphere.
It was established in 1990 as the Journal of Sustainable Agriculture, obtaining its current title in 2013.
The book pioneered and popularized the attempt to explain the evolutionary mechanics behind social behaviors such as altruism, aggression, and nurturance, primarily in ants (Wilson's own research specialty) and other Hymenoptera, but also in other animals.
Regarding energy, it is an open system, with photosynthesis capturing solar energy at a rate of around 100 terawatts.
The environmental and productivity patterns around the Indian EEZ continued to be monitored and research on the productivity and fishery resources of the Andaman and Nicobar regions was also carried out.
This tends to happen when the two populations have strong reproductive isolation and significant overlap in their niche.
The framework for this monitoring should be planned before the start of the implementation, and the details included in the recovery plan.
Actual resources are those, that have been surveyed, their quantity and quality determined, and are being used in present times.
A 2023 study of megafaunal extinctions in the Junín Plateau of Peru found that the timing of the disappearance of megafauna was concurrent with a large uptick in fire activity attributed to human actions, implicating humans as the cause of their local extinction on the plateau.
From the early days, the organizations imparts lessons to the school students in the State of Lower Saxony, working as the Regional Environmental Education Center.
Boyden developed the concept of biohistory, which examines the interplay between biological and cultural processes throughout human history to understand modern environmental challenges.
To control these variables, the vertical ecosystem implements a system of sensors and warnings that inform of any anomaly of measurements in real time, allowing remote monitoring and control of the system.
These people believe that the current human trajectory puts us on a path that will eventually lead to ecophagy.
Thus, so-called rewilding has to work with its domesticated descendants, of which several breeds are hardy and robust enough to fill this gap.
Mating behavior Males release pheromones and offer nuptial gifts to females in the form of saliva secretions and nuptial prey (usually dead arthropods).
Gaia hypothesis In ecology the concept is important as an element of the Gaia hypothesis, where the system under consideration is the ecological balance of different forms of life on the planet.
It formed as a trip through Sweden and Norway starting in Lund in southernmost Sweden, passing Stockholm, Uppsala and Abisko, going down through Norway, ending in Oslo.
In a few cases (such as Newtown Harbour on the Isle of Wight, and Pagham Harbour in West Sussex) the sea walls have been breached, and the estuaries have returned to a tidal state.
This parasite matures in egrets, which are more likely to feed on infected killifish than on uninfected fish.
Legumes, a type of plant in the Fabacae family, are symbionts to some of these microbes that fix N2.
These projects were designed to generate revenue through long-term contracts linked to environmental outcomes.
Of particular interest as of 2006 is to understand the roles and functions of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in natural ecosystems.
Age The earliest evidence for life on Earth includes biogenic graphite found in 3.7 billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks from Western Greenland and microbial mat fossils found in 3.48 billion-year-old sandstone from Western Australia.
The augers can range from 12 to 36 inches in diameter for full-scale systems, with lengths up to 20 feet.
The specific name of linearis, for the plant's linear growing structure and needle-like leaves, was given by Burman (1759).
Other examples The black walnut, Juglans nigra, produces a secretion called juglone, which is toxic to a variety of flowers, herbaceous plants, and field crops.
For example, in Biosphere 2, oxygen levels declined while soil microbes produced higher levels of carbon dioxide, which resulted in higher rates of algal blooms in water bodies.
The concept was developed by the Game & Wildlife Conservation Trust in collaboration with the University of Southampton.
Mission The mission of the Society is to promote the conservation and wise use of the environment, especially in the context of wildlife conservation, by advocating rational policies and appropriate resource management regimes, in conjunction with promoting best practice and good governance.
Based on both molecular evidence and morphological similarities, the species was formally transferred to Solenostoma in 2009, along with its subspecies S.
The wetland conservation provisions have reduced wetland conversions and have helped preserve the environmental functions of wetlands, such as flood control, sediment control, groundwater recharge, water quality, wildlife habitat, to name a few.
A remnant natural area, also known as remnant habitat, is an ecological community containing native flora and fauna that has not been significantly disturbed by destructive activities such as agriculture, logging, pollution, development, fire suppression, or non-native species invasion.
The authors also found a dissociation between cognitive and affective empathy—while affective empathy was found to predict attitudes but not behavior, cognitive empathy predicted both.
Participants need not know how to identify the species; help is provided through iNaturalist's automated species identification feature as well as the community of users on iNaturalist, including professional scientists and expert naturalists.
In areas that have been dredged, drained, or dammed, the altered hydrology can destroy a remnant natural area.
According to the World Wide Fund for Nature, the following ecoregions have the highest percentage of endemic plants.
Its activities included pilot projects and research related to environmental monitoring and valuation.
Each nation can assign their own NRANK based on information from conservation data centres, natural heritage programmes, and expert scientists.
The removal of plant and infrastructure is not always part of a rehabilitation programme, as many old mine plants have cultural heritage and cultural value.
Mission The organization's mission is to promote sustainable coexistence between people and nature through scientific communication and public education.
"Exploring the Diversity of Gardnerella vaginalis in the Genitourinary Tract Microbiota of Monogamous Couples Through Subtle Nucleotide Variation".
Conserving nature's footprints The Conserving Nature's Footprints outreach project teaches adults, teenagers, and kids how to enjoy the outdoors while minimizing their impact on the environment.
Location WACN has its headquarters on the 7th Floor of Mulliner Towers, Alfred Rewane Road Lagos, 101233, Nigeria and Kemp House, City Road, London, EC1V 2NX, United Kingdom.
For example, a plant species may be highly susceptible to a particular plant disease, meaning that exposed populations invariably become extinct or decline heavily.
Functioning as a prototype for the much larger scale Everglades Construction Project, the ENRP was designed to model the process of using Stormwater treatment areas (STAs) to remove nutrients, especially phosphorus, from agricultural runoff entering the Everglades.
Polarized light pollution is caused by our choice of technology and materials and can be reduced by more thoughtfully selecting materials for construction.
It was first investigated in 2006, when it was applied to assess how similarity analysis can be used to scale out research findings within seven Andes pilot systems of basins.
Definition Sexual segregation has traditionally been defined as the differential use of space (spatial segregation) or habitat (habitat segregation) by males and females.
See also Climate change Climate change in the United States Climate change in Australia Climate change in the Arctic Climate change in Antarctica == References ==
e.g., sharks, show less thermal dependence at lower temperatures than endothermic species See also Arrhenius equation Arrhenius plot Isotonic (exercise physiology) Isometric exercise Skeletal striated muscle Tetanic contraction == References ==
Adult eastern coyotes are larger than western coyotes, with female eastern coyotes weighing 21% more than male western coyotes.
Section 4(f) of the United States Endangered Species Act from 1973 directs the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce to develop and implement recovery plans to promote the conservation of endangered and threatened species.
Kim Medley is an American environmental scientist and the director of Tyson Research Center at Washington University in St.
Most approaches pursue the cartographical delineation or regionalisation of distinct areas for mapping and planning.
It is part of the more general phenomenon of island syndrome which describes the differences in morphology, ecology, physiology and behaviour of insular species compared to their continental counterparts.
Example of BCCVL SDM outputs can be found here Another example is Ecocrop, which is used to determine the suitability of a crop to a specific environment.
These organisms can be good sources of extracellular enzymes for industrial processes such as the production of fruit juice.
It is estimated that 87 percent of wetland conversions from the mid-1950s to the mid-1970s were due to agricultural conversion.
It is an interdisciplinary concept for integrating astronomy, geophysics, meteorology, biogeography, evolution, geology, geochemistry, hydrology and, generally speaking, all life and Earth sciences.
Using the Good–Toulmin model, the number of unseen species is found using U = − ∑ i = 1 ∞ ( − t ) i φ i .
If the amount is greater than the benthic detritivores can process, the phytodetritus forms a fluffy layer on the surface of the sediment.
The ecology of fear is a conceptual framework describing the psychological impact that predator-induced stress experienced by animals has on populations and ecosystems.
Ecosystem Protection The ecosystem of this island and the other twenty-nine isles of the Cargados Carajos shoals are an internationally recognised Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF) Key Biodiversity Area.
(2002) claims that the new non-spatial definition is lacking in an ability to settle the debate about whether sympatric speciation regularly occurs in nature.
See also Agricultural expansion Groundwater-dependent ecosystems Wetland conservation References External links This article incorporates public domain material from Jasper Womach.
Genetic accommodation allows for traits that were produced by the environment to be passed on, and it gives better responses to environmental changes.
As such, much of the research conducted here focuses on agroecology or studies of forest fragmentation.
The park will be divided into four parts: Lago Nabor Carrillo, Cruickshank, Xochiaca-Churubusco and Caracol.
Tactics DGR operates as an aboveground movement and requires members to take a nonviolence pledge as of 2019, calling on others to use underground and violent tactics such as attacks on infrastructure or assassination.
The Biosafety Protocol makes clear that products from new technologies must be based on the precautionary principle and allow developing nations to balance public health against economic benefits.
Main arguments Oak and hazel Vera relies on several lines of argument based on experiments, ecology, evolutionary ecology, palynology, history and etymology.
Cave salamanders are found in Europe and the U.S., but only some of these (such as the olm and Texas blind salamander) are entirely aquatic.
Alternatively, this fusion could create a higher-level superorganism employing a low-conflict division of labor in performing informational tasks...
The International Vegetation Classification (IVC or EcoVeg) has been recently proposed but has not been yet widely adopted.
Examples of colonies Western Galicia The colonies of the Western Galicia were located in three concentrated areas, around Nowy Sącz (Stary Sącz crown lands), around Bochnia (Niepołomice crown lands), and the third in the fork of the rivers Vistula and San (crown lands of Sandomierz and Leżajsk).
The project, originally named Antshares, was founded in 2014 by Da HongFei and Erik Zhang and rebranded as Neo in 2017.
For example, the United Kingdom and Ireland are destination countries for migrants from Eastern Europe, Africa, and Asia, but are themselves source countries for immigration to other English-speaking countries.
Ottoman Empire Orientalism first arose in Early Modern France with Guillaume Postel and the French Embassy to the court of the Ottoman Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent.
Background The Decade was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly through Resolution A/RES/74/135, following the success of the 2019 International Year of Indigenous Languages.
Today, however, tools for media production and dissemination are readily available and allow for what Rheingold labels "participatory media." As participation becomes easier, the diversity of voices that can be heard also increases.
The choice of which and even how many quantities to use as base quantities is not fundamental or even unique – it is a matter of convention.
The phenomenon may also include a broader appreciation of the Turkic peoples, of whom the Turkish people are a part.
Hakim writes that young men defining their value through their body is a response to the effects of austerity on them since 2008, when the ability to create value through other means became harder.
from criminals, from paramilitaries, from an economic war", others saw Maduro's actions as a distraction from the poor socioeconomic conditions of Venezuela and a way for him to blame Venezuela's problems on Colombia.
The most careful determinations of these quantities now possible are liable to minute corrections hereafter, as more numerous observations are made and better instruments are used.
Gendered experiences Participatory culture lacks representation of the female, which has created a misrepresentation of women online.
Its aim is to find and implement long-term, sustainable remedies which will increase the availability of educational technology and resources to domestic and international communities.
It has been described as "both content and activity" meaning that web users should not just learn about the web but also about how to make their own website.
This separation, referred to as a hard boundary, contrasts the soft boundary that comes with a plurilinguistic approach.
Reporter Jeong explains within the article that due to the borrowing of this system, South Korea was able to modernize rapidly.
Therefore, socialists have often aligned themselves politically with anti-colonial independence movements, and actively opposed the exploitation of one country by another.
This phenomenon, when the rate of urbanization outpaces the rate of economic growth, is known as overurbanization.
However, individuals' public records are increasingly useful to the government and highly sought after.
James Clerk Maxwell and Elihu Thomson (through the British Association for the Advancement of Science, or BAAS) introduced the Centimetre gram second system of units in 1874 to derive electric and magnetic metric units, following the recommendation of Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1832.
Albanian community in Montenegro Montenegro is also said to be concerned about recent growth of the small Albanian community in Montenegro.
The jury evaluates candidates based on the cultural and social impact of their work, as well as its overall quality.
Like fēn, it is sometimes written as miǎozhōng (秒钟; 秒鐘; 'clock second') to clarify that someone is talking about modern seconds.
FMR provides a practice-oriented forum for debate on issues facing refugees and internally displaced persons in order to improve policy and practice and to involve refugees and IDPs in programme design and implementation.
UN agencies, such as UN Relief and Works Agency, are generally regarded as international organizations in their own right.
Those with higher educational and occupational specializations tend to move across borders in search of more diversified and complex labor markets and social opportunities.
The alternative version of the emblem shown in the episode "Coming Home" depicts a circle with three smaller circles within it.
The term foreign born encompasses both immigrants and expatriates but is not synonymous with either.
The Digital Divide Network (DDN) is an online community of activists, policymakers, researchers and concerned citizens interested in sharing knowledge to help bridge the digital divide.
On 24 July 2018, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán met with Markovic and offered to help Montenegro to build a 25 kilometres (16 mi) long fence along the border.
Countries with immigration rates above 25% tend to be wealthy countries with relatively open migration or labour laws, including Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland and the Persian Gulf states.
Conversion Relation to the metre In the 18th century, the metre was defined as the 10-millionth part of a quarter meridian.
Four CQ capabilities The authors described four CQ capabilities: motivation (CQ Drive), cognition (CQ Knowledge), meta-cognition (CQ Strategy), and behavior (CQ Action).
For example, since Hanks' win for Philadelphia in 1993, only two openly gay actors have been nominated for either Best Actor or Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards: Nigel Hawthorne in 1994, and Ian McKellen in 1998 and 2001.
The Cambridge History of Global Migrations: Volume 2, Migrations, 1800–Present (2023) Audebert, Cédric, and Mohamed Kamel Doraï, eds.
Longtime Free Library of Philadelphia director Elliot Shelkrot said that "Democracy depends on an informed population.
Scholars Esperantic Studies Foundation assists scholars and advanced students in conducting research in the fields of language planning, interlinguistics, transnational language policy, linguistic justice, and planned languages (including Esperanto).
X.509 Digital Identities allow developers to tie tokens to real-world identities which aid in complying with KYC/AML and other regulatory requirements.
Internationalization strategies Academic strategies Academic strategies focus on academic programmes, research and scholarly collaboration, external relations: domestic and cross-border and extra-curricular activities.
UK In 2007, UK online centres first marked out a date in October to bring digital inclusion to national attention.
Later research, primarily focused on face-to-face communication in various areas such as interpersonal, group, and organizational and cultural identity.
Namesake Austin O'Brien was named after Sir Austin O'Brien, the superintendent of Edmonton Catholic Schools from 1924 to 1961.
Informal organization complements the more explicit structures, plans, and processes of the formal organization.
Through such activities, the intention is that global issues will affect students' understanding of the world in a meaningful way.
Associated ideas include the knowledge economy created by economists and the learning society created by educators.
Phipps serves on the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Global Challenge Research Fund Advisory Board.
An international organization does not pay taxes, is difficult to prosecute in court and is not obliged to provide information to any parliament.
According to the theory of transnationalism, migration and other factors, including improved global communication, produce new forms of identity that transcend traditional notions of physical and cultural space.
This would allow Tenebrix to have been "GPU-resistant", and utilize the available CPU resources from bitcoin miners.
KOSMICA also counts with other activities such as educational programmes, publishing and other curated activities.
Stowe is a believer in the duty of non-resistance for the white man, under all possible outrage and peril, as for the black man ...
In the later half of the 20th century, there became increasing evidence that any pejorative meaning of the term Okie was fading; former and present Okies began to apply the label as a badge of honor and symbol of the Okie survivor attitude.
These languages did not have much influence on Australian English before the 1980s, as non-English languages had little impact on the development of Australian English, and Indigenous Australian languages were not taught in schools at the time.
Adapted theatrical performances of the novel, called Tom Shows, remained in continual production in the United States for at least 80 years beyond the 1850s (1930s).
Exoticism (from exotic) is the style or traits considered characteristic of a distant foreign country.
During the 1960s and 1970s, there was a similar phase of Indomania in the Western world, with a rise of interest in Indian culture.
It has been called Canada's national dish, though some critics believe this labeling represents cultural appropriation of the Québécois or Quebec's provincial identity.
—At the Library." See also Autodidacticism Citizen science Democratization Encyclopédie Ideagoras Intellectual property Trade secret Wikipedia and the Democratization of Knowledge, a 2021 German documentary == References ==
Additionally, each worker set aside one petal per rose which they found to be the most beautiful and those 3,291 chosen petals were then pressed onto archival paper.
The project is being jointly implemented by Poland, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden, and ICMPD in its role of the Prague Process Secretariat.
The founders developed Titcoin for the adult entertainment industry as a cash alternative payment system for performing anonymous transactions.
Since the end of the Korean War in 1953, there has been virtually no contact between the citizens of the two countries, including the many families who were divided during the turmoil that engulfed Korea after liberation from Japanese rule and during the three-year Korean War.
Philippines The Philippines is the largest exporter of nurses in the world supplying 25% of all overseas nurses.
Ensure indigenous peoples’ right to preserve, revitalize, and promote their languages, recognizing linguistic diversity as a pillar of sustainable development.
Where a child would be a British citizen but for the fact that the parents are not married, the Home Office will usually register the child as a British citizen under section 3(1) of the British Nationality Act provided that the child is still under 18.
In response to both the previous hypotheses mentioned, the Interdependent Development Hypothesis emerged with the idea that there is some sort of interaction between the two language systems in acquisition.
Canadian composer Oscar Ferdinand Telgmann and poet George Frederick Cameron wrote the song "The Bohemian" in the 1889 opera Leo, the Royal Cadet.
This relates to multiculturalism because bias is often one sided and Multiculturalism embraces cultures from across the globe.
Registered national security exchanges and automated trading systems (ATSs) are governed by federal laws and regulations aimed at protecting investors and preventing fraudulent and manipulative trading practices.
After Demorest's death, the Demorest medal system was merged with that of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), and Mrs.
The Esperantic Studies Foundation, abbreviated ESF, is a non-profit organisation initiated in 1968 by Jonathan Pool, E.
To counteract this, a system of paper wallets was developed, allowing MazaCoin to be stored and used in a more traditional, physical format.
The advent of ICT allows learners to seek information and develop knowledge at any time and any place where access is available and unrestricted.
Some polities which restrict emigration require individuals to possess an exit visa to leave the polity.
Rises in COVID-19 cases were reported in migrant and refugee camps in 2020 in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, and on Greek islands.
A child born to one Swiss parent and one foreign parent acquires the place of origin of their Swiss parent.
See also Interlinguistics Esperantology References External links Esperantic Studies Foundation official website Lernu!
At the World's WCTU Convention, held in Toronto, Canada, in October 1897, medal work was adopted as a department and Mrs.
While traditional multinational corporations are national companies with foreign subsidiaries, transnational corporations spread out their operations in many countries to sustain high levels of local responsiveness.
Being plurilingual and having pluricultural competence allows the speaker to choose words and phrases that best describe the situation, which would not be possible without having a blended context of both languages and cultures.
In 1904, for example, Beatrice Webb wrote that Japan was a "rising star of human self-control and enlightenment", praising the "innovating collectivism" of the Japanese, and the "uncanny" purposefulness and open-mindedness of its "enlightened professional elite." H.
highly particularistic attachments antithetical to those by-products of globalization denoted by the concept of "transnational civil society" and its related manifestations.
In its typology, family formation refers to cases in which "a resident national or foreigner marries a foreigner and sponsors that individual for admission or for status change", while family reunification refers to the later admission of existing family members.
Two months after the website was launched, Bill Clinton hosted a national Digital Divide Summit in Washington D.C.
Bulgaria: Bulgaria opened its borders on 1 June 2020 to EU countries, the UK, San Marino, Andorra, Monaco, Vatican, Serbia and North Macedonia citizens.
It could also involve a reorientation of academic outlook such as the pursuit of "worldmindedness" as a goal so that a school or its academic focus is considered international.
Base units equivalent to decimal divisions of the day, such as 1/10, 1/100, 1/1,000, or 1/100,000 day, or other divisions of the day, such as 1/20 or 1/40 day, have also been proposed, with various names.
In 2007 the Divided Families Foundation (previously Saemsori) lobbied to create the Congressional Commission on Divided Families, co-chaired by Rep.
Russian objective was the annexation of land; and the Russian military operations that forcibly deported Circassians were designated by Yevdakimov as “ochishchenie” (cleansing).
They break this mission into two parts: one part of their mission is "to inform media, public and policy debates" while a second part is "to generate high quality research on international migration and public policy issues".
Stellar partnered with cloud-based banking software company Oradian in April 2015 to integrate Stellar into Oradian's banking platform to add microfinance institutions (MFIs) in Nigeria.
The poll tax was effectively lifted in the 1930s following the invasion of China by Japan, and was finally repealed in 1944.
Statements In his opening statement, UN secretary-general António Guterres emphasized that the GCM is aimed in particular at the 20% (around 50 million) of illegal migrants worldwide.
Characteristics of minoritization The defining characteristic of minoritization is the existence of a power imbalance between it and the dominant language.
Supporters argue that such rules protect welfare systems, prevent abuse, or promote integration, while critics argue they can delay family life, increase dependency, and disproportionately affect poorer households and some ethnic minority groups.
On 14 July 2022, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) demanded that Hodlnaut transfer the remaining assets that were left to them, this was not revealed to the users of the platform, deposits and withdrawals remained active as per usual.
The Global Cities Dialogue on Information Society (GCD), is a non-profit international association of Mayors and High Political Representatives (HPRs) who believe that the development of the Information Society should be for the benefit of all the citizens, communities and peoples of the world.
The Los Angeles Times in May 1997 described the tiger and Turner tattoos as new at that time; however, the Turner tattoo dates to August 1995 at the latest.
The first attempt to displace the Ogiek people occurred during the 20th century, when British settlers attempted to clear the forest for tea plantations.
Implementation Organizations, including honor societies, implement inclusive excellence through: Policy Development: Modifying policies to enhance equity, such as revising honor society membership criteria to be more inclusive.
GMG was created in 2006 by then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan to better coordinate multilateral migration governance initiatives.
Further evidence to support the coastal migration hypothesis has been found in the biological viability of regions after deglaciation.
Independence Refugees International does not accept government or UN funding, allowing their advocates to be independent.
Notable Turkophiles See also Turquerie Turkology Turanism References External links The dictionary definition of turkophilia at Wiktionary
Asia Philippines Basque immigrants comprised a big part, if not most, of the Spanish expatriate population of the Philippines during the Spanish colonial period.
On 20 August 2018, the sovereign bolívar was introduced, with the government stating it would be linked to the petro coin value.
minoritized A minoritized language differs from a minority language, which means a language used by a small number of speakers, or alternately to a language with lesser numerical or political power in a given context.
Research As well as the new concept of existential migration, the research proposed a novel definition of home as interaction; that the ‘feeling of home’ arises from specific interactions with our surroundings that could potentially occur anywhere, at any time.
The W3C decided that its standards must be based on royalty-free technology, so they can be easily adopted by anyone.
Modern primitives identify with a connection between what they see as "the primitive" and authenticity; "in opposition to the corruptions of mainstream society".
Advantages and disadvantages Each quadrant is assigned a range of 100 gon, which eases recognition of the four quadrants, as well as arithmetic involving perpendicular or opposite angles.
In a Swiss passport and identity card, the holder's place of origin is stated, not their place of birth.
Migration Since its inception, each Bitchcoin is minted as an ERC-1155 token and is now backed by one of the 3,291 pressed rose petals from Meyohas' 2017 performance, Cloud of Petals.
Lee (1917-2007) are categories that demographers use to analyze human migration from former areas to new host locations.
Past Editions 2017, KOSMICA Paris, La Colonie, Paris, France 2016, KOSMICA Mexico, Cosmovitral, Laboratorio Arte Alameda, Cine Tonalá, Toluca & Mexico City, Mexico.
In the face of Dutch competition, in 1624, Souza, the Portuguese governor of Luanda, asked the Maloango to close the competing factories.
At the same time the government encouraged citizens to learn to appreciate other forms of foreign culture.
Some of the additional information includes insight into cultural differences in key symptoms of disorders as well as suggestions on how to take cultural context into account during treatment.
Students can take the technical skills they’ve learned in class to mobilize their communities, engage in advocacy and awareness campaigns, and work together to solve that specific problem.
In 1953 Davis founded the World Service Authority in Washington, DC, which sells World Passports, a fantasy passport to world citizens.
Data for ongoing events may be outdated or disputed, and may be adjusted to reflect smaller or larger figures with newer analyses and reports.
Hayek asserted that she was denied even a chance to audition for the film because “they were not hiring Latinos for Latino roles.
The British Government then looked to the newly discovered east coast of Australia to use as a penal colony.
The exact number of naturalizations is unknown but it is estimated that up to 400,000 immigrants were unlawfully naturalized in Kuwait.
After launching in New York City, NAE brought the New American Festival to Boston, Kansas City, Nashville, Houston, Oakland, and Detroit.
Priests visit Mandaean households and give them myrtle wreaths to hang on their houses for the rest of the year to protect against evil.
In 2011, it agreed to sell limited editions of Polaroid ONE600 instant cameras and Type 779 instant film in partnership with the Austrian entrepreneur Florian Kaps, who acquired the rights to manufacture 700 copies of the defunct product.
The placement of that was dislocated in English sentences because of the influence from French on English syntax.
The 'customizer' might choose to change the orientation of the bill to meet a particular cultural aesthetic.
Although they are sometimes considered separate languages, Northern and Southern Tutchone speakers are generally able to understand each other in conversation, albeit with moderate difficulty.
Manifesta, also known as the European Nomadic Biennial, is a European pan-regional contemporary cultural biennale.
The Global Forum on Migration and Development Civil Society Days is an annual meeting of civil society representatives held in conjunction with the Government Meeting of the Global Forum on Migration and Development.
Digital communication is distinct from traditional media, creating new avenues for intercultural communication.
A security offered in the IEO may violate U.S federal securities laws regardless of whether the trading platform vetted the offering.
This is a list of countries and territories by income inequality metrics, as calculated by the World Bank, UNU-WIDER, OCDE, and World Inequality Database, based on different indicators, like the Gini coefficient and specific income ratios.
In 2019, the BBC World Service radio and podcast series 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy identified blockchain as a technology that would have far-reaching consequences for economics and society.
Their crimes would today be regarded as petty misdemeanors (stealing small items or food), or are no longer in the criminal code (such as being in unresolved debt).
Back-end development, also known as server-side development, focuses on the infrastructure behind a website, including APIs, database management, and security.
As of January 2018 there were 35 partners involved in the project including Digital Communities Wales, Job Centre Plus, Cartrefi Cymru, Citizens Advice Gwynedd, Cyngor Gwynedd and BT.
Is one that has a workforce that includes people from diverse backgrounds across all departments, and which offers them equal opportunity for input and advancement within the company.
This often involves surrounding foreign cultures with mystique and fantasy which owe more to the culture of the people doing the exoticism than to the exotic cultures themselves: this process of glamorisation and stereotyping is called "exoticisation".
Three scales of the hypothesis Pollution control costs have an impact at the margins, where they exert some effect on investment decisions and trade flows.
Egyptian-Style Mosaic The Egyptian-Style Mosaic was the mosaic featured in the 1893 Baedeker Travel Guide after its emergence from the excavations.
It is also about avoiding human suffering during migration - over 60,000 migrants have lost their lives since 2000.
The Congressional Research Service estimated there were between 104,000 and 500,000 Korean Americans with North Korean family members and stated that only 80 Korean Americans had met their relatives through their kin in South Korean reunions.
The school's Ukrainian-language program began in 1983, and teaches Ukrainian language arts as well as religious studies.
Examples of dental variants listed in the ASUDAS are shovel-shaped incisors, Carabelli cusps, or hypocones.
from 1983 to 1993), the bottle and the method of its production were designed by a team led by Nathaniel Wyeth of DuPont, who received the patent in 1973.
In 2023, the Khalifa International Award received the International Design Award in Germany for its international scientific report titled "Khalifa International Award – Bridging Borders." The book won the award in the Best Design category, competing against approximately 3,578 projects.
The Metric Board was abolished in 1982 by President Ronald Reagan, largely on the suggestion of Frank Mankiewicz and Lyn Nofziger.
Common Space At the GFMD 2010 the Mexican Chair initiated a “Common Space” between civil society and governments.
As such, the Pinkerton syndrome was redefined broadly "as the tendency for Asians to be prejudiced and to discriminate in favor of white people".
VAX/VMS uses the number of 100 ns since November 17, 1858, and RISC OS the number of centiseconds since January 1, 1900.
Public libraries help further the democratization of information by guaranteeing freedom of access to information, by providing an unbiased variety of information sources and access to government services, as well as the promotion of democracy and active citizenship.
The JDC International Centre for Community Development (JDC-ICCD) is a research organization and think tank based in Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom.
CJL differs from culture shock in that it is not associated to a precise event but rather a lifelong condition linked to the particularities of an uprooted upbringing.
UNESCO Inclusive Policy Lab.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) "An Overview of Growing Income Inequalities in OECD Countries: Main Findings" (PDF).
These networks help gather information on national initiatives and contribute to the EMN by writing, reviewing reports, and/or providing expert inputs.
Additionally the team creates a set of interrelated research-and-practice-based programmes focussed on local knowledge and practices.
External links Haddad, Cameron Nadim; Mahler, Daniel Gerszon; Diaz-Bonilla, Carolina; Hill, Ruth; Lakner, Christoph; Ibarra, Gabriel Lara (17 June 2024).
In 2017, New American Economy partnered with Douglas Holtz-Eakin of the American Action Forum to publish a pro-immigration open letter signed by 1,470 economists, including six Nobel laureates.
Titone is a Fellow of the Canadian Society for Brain, Behaviour and Cognitive Science (CSBBCS) and, in 2019, she received their Richard C.
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that up to 500,000 people are in flight at any one time.
There are also situations, such as the expulsion of Germans after World War II, where ethnic cleansing has taken place without legal redress (see Preussische Treuhand v.
Therefore, the probability of an entry becoming superseded decreases exponentially as more blocks are built on top of it, eventually becoming very low.
Alternatively, if the child lives in the UK until age 10, they will have a lifetime entitlement to registration as a British citizen under s1(4) of the Act.
The next wave of immigrants from China were labourers brought in to help build the Canadian Pacific Railway, a transcontinental railway, but many defected to the goldfields of the Cariboo and other mining districts.
She traces this development through his translation of Isaac Bashevis Singer's "Gimpel the Fool" and his novels Seize the Day, Herzog, and Mr.
William Shakespeare's works show an important level of Italophilia, a deep knowledge of Italy and the Italian culture, like in Romeo and Juliet and The Merchant of Venice.
The focus of the forum was to bring awareness to the social, technological, and financial challenges facing libraries dealing with the democratization of information.
This leads to a disproportionate number of lower and minority children placed unfairly into lower track groups.
This imposed a £10 tax per Chinese person entering New Zealand, and permitted only one Chinese immigrant for every 10 tons of cargo.
Social features added to non-social sites Web sites that are not built around social interaction nevertheless add features that enable discussion and collaboration out of an interest in expanding their user bases—a trend that is projected to continue in the coming years.
From 2020 to 2022, average download speeds in the EU climbed from 70 Mb/s to more than 120 Mb/s, owing mostly to the demand for digital services during the pandemic.
WorldSkills is an international charity that organises world and national championships for vocational skills and is held every two years in different parts of the world, and also hosts conferences about vocational skills.
The increasing emphasis on the concept of the family of origin reflects the generation gap caused by rapid economic growth.
Another staging by Crude Apache Theatre Company was performed on 27 February 2013, at Dragon Hall, King Street, Norwich.
Montenegrin Prime Minister Dusko Markovic denied that his country was considering building a border fence in early July.
To have a productive and effective dialogue between disciplines requires incentives for cooperation.
Cross-national empirical verification, or rejection, of populist suspicion and fear of refugees' threat to national security and terror-related activities is relatively scarce.
However, a displaced person otherwise legally entitled to refugee status may never apply for asylum, or may not be allowed to apply in the country they fled to and thus may not have official asylum seeker status.
In 1998, UN's Minurso mission identified 42,378 voting-age adults in the camps, counting only those who had contacted the mission's registration offices and subsequently been able to prove their descent from pre-1975 Western Sahara.
External links Take the Safe Online Surfing Internet Challenge (FBI) What Is Digital Citizenship & How Do You Teach It?
Coordinating Office The Civil Society Coordinating Office was created in 2011 to assume responsibility of the overall preparation and coordination of civil society activities.
The lack of opportunities to legally access the asylum procedures can force displaced persons to undertake often expensive and hazardous attempts at illegal entry.
After the death of Professor István Szerdahelyi, she took over his chair of Esperanto and Linguistics at Eötvös University in 1987.
It is published by the University of Oxford's Refugee Studies Centre in four languages, namely English, Arabic, Spanish and French.
The Gini coefficient is a number between 0 and 100, where 0 represents perfect equality (everyone has the same income).
Providing an open standard for the data elements and algorithms of contracts provides consistency first within financial institutions and second when sharing data among organizations in the finance industry.
Canada The law of Canada divides people into three major groups: citizens, permanent residents, and foreign nationals.
It was a short step from this to argue that the Prussians and the Spartans were originally of the same race.
History Founding and beta (2019–2023) World, originally called Worldcoin, is a project started by OpenAI chief executive Sam Altman, Max Novendstern, and Alex Blania and based in San Francisco and Munich.
It declared the metric system "the preferred system of weights and measures for United States trade and commerce", but permitted the use of United States customary units in all activities.
Family of origin refers to the early social group a person belongs to in childhood, which is often a person's biological family or an adoptive family.
Students in the third and fourth grades go through "foreign language activities" for 35 hours per year, about one or two lessons per week, to learn the basics of English language.
The Serbian writer Branislav Nušić mentions the exodus of Belgrade's Muslims in his work The Sixth of April, in which the Serbs were enthusiastic about entering the city, and that people would have a feast there on St.
The family of origin is often referred to in contrast to the family of choice independently in adulthood (such as marriage, living independently, etc).
The new concept also challenges our usual definitions of being at home, the experience of foreignness, what constitutes belonging, and the nature of homelessness.
Name changes are less common today for Europeans emigrating to the United States than they are for people originating in East Asian countries (except for Japan, which no longer has large-scale emigration).
Thrace was also an important place because the population density was low and it was a frontier region.
For example, Herculean when referring to Hercules himself, but often herculean when referring to the figurative, generalized extension sense; and quixotic and diesel engine [lowercase only].
Building upon the concept of the "tragedy of the commons" in Garrett Hardin's pivotal article in Science (1968), Platt and others in the seminar applied behavioral psychology concepts to actions of people operating in social traps.
The state of mind which attributes to it these characters of a living creature is one in which the reason is unhinged by grief.
The book was produced in many lavish illuminated manuscript versions, and spawned panel paintings for cassoni and the like.
Often the aim of dodging a question is to make it seem as though the question was fulfilled, leaving the person who asked the question feeling satisfied with the answer, unaware that the question was not properly answered.
Example: "Spooner's criminal with nurse finding hiding places." (4,3,6) Solution: NOOK AND CRANNY (Spoonerism of CROOK AND NANNY).
Thus, in summarizing the plot of A Tale of Two Cities, one may write: Manette is obsessed with making shoes, a trade he learnt while in prison.
The valley receives official protection after the First World War, with the French authorities mistakenly believing that the rapid growth of the new forest is a bizarre natural phenomenon, as they are unaware of Bouffier's selfless deeds.
However, in Attic Greek, a short vowel followed by a plosive and a liquid consonant or nasal stop remains a short or "open" syllable.
Similes compare two things explicitly, in English often using the words "like" or "as", whereas metaphors often create an implicit comparison (i.e., saying something "is" something else).
Anaplodiplosis Narrative epanadiplosis, or "anaplodiplosis" (anadiplosis in Latin), from the Greek ἀνάπλωσις ("explanation") and διπλόη ("anything doubled, or divided in two") is a figure of speech that consists in completing a work, usually a novel, as one has begun it.
Pinto's Allegories of Justice and Truth by architect Giuseppe Bonici and mason Giovanni Puglisi, 1758.
Language that illustrates situations unfolding in the very opposite way from what relevant people expect is called situational irony.
Loanwords and neologisms In the context of language development, aureation can be seen as an extension of processes in which historically vernacular languages are expanded through loan words.
"Words, words, words." (Hamlet) Conduplicatio is the repetition of a word in various places throughout a paragraph.
And conflict breeds catastrophe." - Vision in Captain America: Civil War See also Antati, a form of Tamil poetry that relies upon anadiplosis Antimetabole Epanalepsis Figure of speech References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Isocrates has also noted that a speaker's character was essential to the persuasive effect of a speech.
According to Kenneth Burke, the author creates this impression by demonstrating an understanding of the audience’s needs and by "substantiating" intellectual and empathetic relationships between oneself and the audience.
This process makes the fish particularly pungent smelling and, with strong enough brine, turns its flesh reddish.
For a thousand years the Church had buttressed its theological edifice by means of an authoritative exegesis which depended on allegory as its chief medium of interpretation.
Albert Matthews, writing in the Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society in 1908, asserted that this book was the first use in literature (as distinct from newspapers) of the term Uncle Sam to personalise the United States.
It typically supplies the input enabling acceptance of apheresized forms historically, such as especially > specially.
US case law Rhetorical hyperbole is defined as "extravagant exaggeration employed for rhetorical effect" for First Amendment purposes.
Another noted example is when professional prize fight manager Joe Jacobs cried, We was robbed!, after his fighter lost a decision in 1932.
Laudatives (from Latin laudare "to praise") are words or grammatical forms that denote a positive affect.
Histories make men wise; poets, witty; the mathematics, subtle; natural philosophy, deep; moral, grave; logic and rhetoric, able to contend.
Cleary describes a boy named Alex who speaks in spoonerisms (like "shook a tower" instead of "took a shower").
An example of this is using terms like "somewhat" or "in most respects", which make a sentence more ambiguous than it would be without them.
Later, this was replaced by the more clinical abbreviation "STD" (sexually transmitted disease), which has since been replaced by "STI" (sexually transmitted infection) in an effort to de-stigmatize testing for asymptomatic patients before they show disease symptoms.
See also Astrotheology Allegorical interpretations of Genesis Religious cosmology Esoteric cosmology Biblical cosmology René Guénon == Notes ==
Other examples of notional agreement for collective nouns involve some uses of the words team and none.
Examples of transferred epithets are "the winged sound of whirling" (δίνης πτερωτὸς φθόγγος), meaning "the sound of whirling wings" (Aristophanes, Birds 1198), and Horace's "angry crowns of kings" (iratos...regum apices, Odes 3.21.19f.).
Example from Alexander Pope's Peri Bathous, Or the Art of Sinking in Poetry: Masters of this [catachresis] will say, Mow the beard, Shave the grass, Pin the plank, Nail my sleeve.
At the beginning of the story "jollity" and "gloom" are said to be contending for an empire, the Merry Mount colonists personifying jollity or mirth and the Puritans being the emblems of gloom and doom.
The consensus reads: "Children of the Corn's strong premise and beginning gets shucked away for a kiddie thriller that runs in circles".
In many cases it may be intended to start a discourse, as a means of displaying or emphasizing the speaker's or author's opinion on a topic.
And Reason public domain audiobook at LibriVox – collection in which the poem appears The Hunting of the Snark public domain audiobook at LibriVox Carroll, Lewis.
He was a prolific writer as a columnist, essayist and book reviewer, but his two dystopian novels, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four remain the focus of his legacy.
Your elbow is in the butter, sir." As a relative term, anticlimax requires a greater or lesser climax to precede it in order to have proper effect.
An astrological allegory is an allegory (a story conveying a symbolic meaning instead of a literal one) based on astrology, that is, the movement of stars and planets as seen from the Earth.
However, research has shown that cooperative behavior under social and environmental uncertainty can be enhanced when the group chooses a trustworthy leader who manages the shared resource justly.
Captatio benevolentiae (Latin for "winning of goodwill") is a rhetorical technique aimed to capture the goodwill of the audience at the beginning of a speech or appeal.
BBC Television has presented the play three times, to varying critical response: first 30 May 1939, in a production by Stephen Thomas; then 28 May 1950 (Selver translation adapted and produced by Michael Barry, with Bernard Miles as the tramp); then 19 June 1960 directed by Hal Burton.
Etymology Euphemism comes from the Greek word euphemia (εὐφημία), 'words of good omen'; it is a compound of eû (εὖ), meaning 'good, well', and phḗmē (φήμη), meaning 'prophetic speech; rumour, talk'.
After this the modern woman returns and pins up a Red Cross poster, and the modern man sees the many women of today as more or less uninspiring.
Synopsis The young female narrator, unable to sleep, walks out to an oak-grove and finds an arbour, where a goldfinch is singing in a medlar tree.
Daley why Hubert Humphrey had lost the state of Illinois in the 1968 presidential election, Daley replied "He lost it because he didn't get enough votes." Similarly when Larry King asked Putin what happened with Kursk submarine, Putin answered: 'She sank'.
would hurt his eyes, and he would escape by turning away to the things which he was able to look at, and these he would believe to be clearer than what was being shown to him".
Other poets from the Thebaid had not only become celebrities—such as Musaeus Grammaticus, Colluthus, and Christodorus—but also were part of a poetic revolution of that time.
A few examples (slightly exaggerated; apostrophes added to indicate elision): 松下さんはいますか？ Matsushita-san wa imasu ka?
Paradeigma (Greek: παράδειγμα; plural: paradeigmata) is a technique used in Ancient Greek rhetoric used to compare the situation of the audience to a similar past event, like a parable (Greek: παραβολή).
Plot The story begins in the year 1913, when a young man who is the narrator was travelling alone on a hiking trip through Provence, France, and into the Alps, enjoying the relatively unspoiled wilderness.
During the Renaissance period, imitation was seen as a means of obtaining one's personal style; this was alluded to by the artists of that era like Cennino Cennini, Petrarch and Pier Paolo Vergerio.
Cosimo I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany took festina lente as his motto and symbolised it with a sail-backed tortoise.
Rhetorical antithesis In rhetoric, antithesis is a figure of speech involving the bringing out of a contrast in the ideas by an obvious contrast in the words, clauses, or sentences, within a parallel grammatical structure.
The term "sound bite" was coined in the late 1970s, several years before the presidency of Ronald Reagan, who was famous for short, memorable phrases like, "Mr.
Grice's razor (also known as Guillaume's razor): As a principle of parsimony, conversational implicatures are to be preferred over semantic context for linguistic explanations.
Translations Within Georgia, the poem has been translated into other Kartvelian languages like Laz, Svan and Mingrelian.
Example "In necessariis unitas, in dubiis libertas, in omnibus caritas" ("In necessary things unity, in doubtful things liberty, in all things charity").
Some dialects, like Savo and Ostrobothnian, have epenthesis instead and use the preceding vowel in clusters of type -lC- and -hC-, in Savo also -nh-.
Solemnity, Banality and Sarcasm: Provenances of the Figura Etymologica in Homer, Cornell University (abstract) Clary, Todd C.
Nihon Koten Bungaku Daijiten: Kan'yakuban [A Comprehensive Dictionary of Classical Japanese Literature: Concise Edition].
Ethopoeia was a technique used by early students of rhetoric in order to create a successful speech or oration by impersonating a subject or client.
Some scholars of the canonical gospels and the New Testament apply the term "parable" only to the parables of Jesus, although that is not a common restriction of the term.
"Bathos" or "bathetic" is also used for similar effects in other branches of the arts, such as musical passages marked ridicolosamente.
"He watches afternoon repeats and the food he eats." (Blur, "Country House") "You held your breath and the door for me." (Alanis Morissette, "Head Over Feet") "I took the podium and my second trophy of the evening." (Samuel R.
Academic analysis of the concept of allusions In discussing the richly allusive poetry of Virgil's Georgics, R.
For example, an individual would oppose the idea of a "death tax" while supporting an "estate tax" despite the fact that the descriptions were the same.
Conduction and Broca's groups showed strongest evidence of TOT, performing better than the other groups in identification of initial letters.
His new continent of uncertain location, perhaps even a floating island either in the sea or the sky, serves as background for his exposure of what he described in a second edition as "A True Character of Popery and Jesuitism".
Peter Majer and Cathy Porter published a complete English translation, titled The Insect Play for Methuen Drama in 1999.
The figure therefore concerns the phrasal level, unlike narrative epanadiplosis, which concerns an entire text.
Through the process of afferent feedback, the copied bodily expressions result in the receiver experiencing the same emotions as the sender.
Furthermore, over a thousand towns and villages were renamed - an example is Lyon, which was renamed to Commune-Affranchie (Free Commune or Emancipated Commune).
As an example, a person might apologize for bumping into another person, but could write an apologia to explain why they believe a specific belief is superior to another specific belief.
There are variations of the story, but according to one version, the pungent red herring would be dragged along a trail until a puppy learned to follow the scent.
Euphemisms Euphemistic language often uses circumlocution to avoid saying words that are taboo or considered offensive.
Cold War: the Ontario Stalin Township was renamed by Ontario legislature in 1986 to Hansen Township.
Plato's dialogues Timaeus The only primary sources for Atlantis are Plato's dialogues Timaeus and Critias; all other mentions of the island are based on them.
While the two were arguing, Tellus (Earth) arose and wanted it to have her name because she had made her body available for it.
Plato has regarded imitation as a general principle of art, as he viewed art itself as an imitation of life.
Prompting Her Majesty's poses, Cecil Beaton says:"All hail sage Lady, whom a grateful Isle hath blessed." Not moving, not breathing.
The thesis achieved considerable popular interest and elaboration by many scholars in history, economics and other fields, but that thesis has been challenged.
The exercise is intended to help an individual gain deeper understanding of an issue by forcing them to consider it from the angle of their opponent, which may serve either to strengthen their argument or to help the debaters reach compromise.
(St Matthew's Gospel, 10:34) Another type involves an antimetabole (AB, BA word order), in which the contrasted words switch places: In peace you long for war, and in war you long for peace.
Zeibiri (2003: 100) notes that the term “rhetoric” has often carried pejorative connotations in the Western tradition, sometimes implying empty verbosity or manipulative discourse, which is seen as inimical to truth.
It is written as a dialogue between Plato's brother Glaucon and his mentor Socrates and is narrated by the latter.
For example, Rocko's Modern Life employed numerous innuendos over its run, such as alluding to masturbation by naming the fictional fast food chain in the show "Chokey Chicken".
It incorporates the idea of immortality based on reproduction from a tissue culture and genetic engineering, and an early mention of tin foil hats and their supposed anti-telepathic properties.
It could be that the Dissoi Logoi could have been derived from Protagoras himself, and may have even been an influence on Plato while he was writing his Protagoras.
It has been used to criticize evolutionary explanations of traits that have been proposed to be adaptations, particularly in the evolution–creation debates and in debates regarding research methods in sociobiology and evolutionary psychology.
(AV) (Psalms 20:7) And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
It can also be a remark or question, typically disparaging (also called insinuation), that works obliquely by allusion.
The truth then becomes "the elephant in the room"; no matter how obvious it is, the people most affected pretend to others and to themselves that it is not so.
Sotto voce (, Italian: [ˈsotto ˈvoːtʃe]; literally 'under the voice') means intentionally lowering the volume of one's voice for emphasis.
The United States Navy cruiser that responds to the distress call finds only two surviving sailors in the water, and the freighter is sunk by naval gunfire.
The straw man argument, an informal fallacy in which one misrepresents an opposing argument in order to further one's own, can serve as an example of misused procatalepsis.
Engine!" (Winston Churchill) "The psychologist known as Sigmund Fraud—Freud, I mean!" The words in italics are technically the epanorthoses, but all the words following the dash may be considered part of the epanorthosis as well.
Marc Anthony begins by building common cause with the audience on stage, addressing them as "Friends, Romans, countrymen..." His speech then poses a number of rhetorical questions to them as part of his refutation of Brutus' words: "Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
History This device of parallelism was first identified by the twelfth-century Jewish scholars Abraham Ibn Ezra and Joseph Kimhi, who referred to it as "kefel 'inyan be-millot shonot" ("doubling of the thought with other words").
For political purposes, framing often presents facts in such a way that implicates a problem that requires a solution.
410 BC, line 54), in the translation by David Kovacs (1998.) "Then come, sweet death, and rid me of this grief.", queen Isabel in Edward II; by Christopher Marlowe.
See also Apocope Elision Initial dropping List of phonetics topics Syncope References Notes Bibliography Alexander, James D.
It is difficult to determine if the participant is using gestures as their regular form of communication or if they are using gestures in order to help them overcome their TOT experience and retrieve the target word.
Through 18 trials total, Asch (1951) found that one third (33%) of naive participants conformed with the clearly incorrect majority, with 75% of participants over the 12 trials.
Alcmene's servant Galanthis, realizing that Lucina is outside the room using magic to prevent the birth, emerges to announce that the birth has been a success.
Tropes, again, are deviations of words from their ordinary or literal usage, while schemes are variations in the sequence, or the usual expected order, of words.
The stage directions note that Anima is dressed in white, a symbol of her purity and position as the bride of Christ.
ʿIlm al-Bayān (Science of Expression) This branch, one of the most recognized in Balagha, explores the different ways to express a single meaning using various rhetorical techniques.
in Romanian: La Paştele Cailor ("on horses' Easter") In Russian: когда рак на горе свистнет (kogdá rak na goré svístnet, "when the crawfish whistles on the mountain").
For the author, this may be an ironic way of saying that we're back where we started, and that everything that has happened in the meantime is of little importance.
Spenser varied existing epic stanza forms, the rhyme royal used by Chaucer with the rhyme pattern ABABBCC, and the ottava rima with the rhyme pattern ABABABCC.
1900 In Pan-American Exposition of 1901 in Buffalo, New York had an extensive scheme of allegorical sculpture programmed by Karl Bitter.
Uusi Aura and Åbo Underrättelser observed that the Concert Overture was received with, respectively, "great pleasure" and "sympathetic applause".
It is ruled by a scheming politician (the Wizard) who uses publicity devices and tricks to fool the people (and even the Good Witches) into believing he is benevolent, wise, and powerful when really he is a selfish, evil humbug.
Contraction of e + o or o + e leads to ou, and e + e to ei, which are in this case spurious diphthongs.
Amplification may refer to exaggeration or to stylistic vices such as figures of excess or superfluity (e.g., hyperbole).
In the Eclogue of Plutarch, there is a long list of proverbs and the first section is titled ΠΕΡΙ ΤΩΝ ΑΔΥΝΑΤΩΝ, consisting of proverbs that are built on adynaton.
History Homeoteleuton (homoioteleuton) was first identified by Aristotle in his Rhetoric, where he identifies it as two lines of verse which end with words having the same ending.
Ancient Greek Tmesis in Ancient Greek is something of a misnomer, since there is not necessarily a splitting of the prefix from the verb; rather the consensus now seems to be that the separate prefix or pre-verb reflects a stage in the language where the prefix had not yet joined onto the verb.
Hypozeuxis is a rhetorical term for an expression or sentence where every clause has its own independent subject and predicate.
The work has been studied for its rhetorical style and has influenced discussions of Arabic literature and balāghah.
They endeavored to conceal the absurdities of the ancient [Pagan] religion by casting over its fables the veil of allegory, and thus represented them as founded upon immortal truths...
Skeat (ed.) Chaucerian and Other Pieces, Edited from Numerous Manuscripts…Being a Supplement to the Complete Works of Geoffrey Chaucer Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1897.
Psychological research and findings The Pollyanna principle was described by Margaret Matlin and David Stang in 1978 using the archetype of Pollyanna more specifically as a psychological principle which portrays the positive bias people have when thinking of the past.
Publications There are a large number of international publications (books and scientific articles) that deal with the importance of the moral compass in general, in politics, business, religion, etc.
Accumulatio is a figure of speech, part of the more general group of enumeratio, in which the statements made previously are presented again in a compact, forceful manner.
This concept was first formulated by Dionysius of Halicarnassus in the first century BCE as imitatio, and has since dominated for almost two thousand years the Western history of the arts and classicism.
Covered in the poem are the Spanish match, the Gunpowder Plot, the murder of Thomas Overbury, and the assassination of Buckingham.
Jus' keep me shovin' all over the country all the time." Other examples, such as him and going to shown in the table above, are generally used only in fast or informal speech.
These may include: metaphor, stories, tradition, slogan, jargon, catchphrase, artifact, contrast or spin.
The Ride of Her Life: The True Story of a Woman, Her Horse, and Their Last-Chance Journey Across America.
Or, The Sulphitic Theory Expounded and Exemplified According to the Most Recent Researches Into the Psychology of Boredom: Including Many Well-known Bromidioms Now in Use.
The text is also useful in that it provides a more precise (although specialized) definition of the concept: "any cognitive situation in which the threat of inconsistency confronts us" (1).
The Adventures of Uncle Sam, in Search After his Lost Honor is an allegorical book published in 1816 written by Frederick Augustus Fidfaddy.
This continuum of the level of revulsion is apparent in certain dysphemisms such as shitter for 'toilet', to come for 'to ejaculate', and puke hole for 'tavern' or 'toilet'.
Comedian Jane Ace was notorious for her spoonerisms and other similar plays on words during her time as main actress of the radio situation comedy Easy Aces.
Story of Cura While crossing a river, Cura gathered clay and, engrossed in thought, began to mold it into a man.
Furthermore, Geoffrey of Vinsauf states that any such repetition must be done so modestly, and not excessively.
In English, a word is often clipped down to a closed monosyllable and then suffixed with ‑y or ‑ie (phonologically ).
Plato is known to have freely borrowed some of his allegories and metaphors from older traditions, as he did with the story of Gyges.
Novels that are written entirely in the historical present include notably John Updike's Rabbit, Run, Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall and Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale.
Scientific research Spoonerisms are not only observed in popular culture but have also been studied extensively in laboratory settings.
When artists consciously mix the very serious with the very trivial, the effect is of surreal humour and the absurd.
See also List of films and television shows about the American Civil War References External links Woman at IMDb
This term also refers to a figure of speech in which an animal or inanimate object is ascribed human characteristics or is spoken of in anthropomorphic language.
This can be used to humorous effect in comedy, where a character will seem bent on making it impossible to maintain the polite fiction.
Wellerisms contain the speech of one speaker, but dialogue proverbs contain direct speech from more than one.
Savarkar borrowed the phrase, along with quotations from Shakespeare, for his pamphlet Hindutva (1923), which celebrated Hindu culture and identity, asking whether Indians were willing to 'disown their seed, forswear their fathers and sell their birthright for a mess of pottage'.
The same article goes on to state that, "A former Apprentice contestant feels similarly manipulated, saying he believed producers had already decided who they wanted to win when he was eliminated." 9/11 Commission 9/11 Commission member Lee H.
without words where lips must touch each other, effectively excluding the letters B, F, M, P and V from the text of the improvised songs.
Politics From 1958 to 1960, the Republic of Upper Volta was led by a high commissioner: Max Berthet (11 December 1958 to February 1959), Paul Masson (February 1959 to 5 August 1960).
A love–hate relationship may develop when people have completely lost the intimacy within a loving relationship, yet still retain some passion for, or perhaps some commitment to, each other, before degenerating into a hate–love relationship leading to divorce.
Words such as circumdare ("to surround") are split apart with other words of the sentence in between, e.g.
In rhetoric, it refers to a device in which there is a descending order of words or phrases, either in order of importance, dignity or time, and either abrupt or gradual.
Examples UK MPs have been criticised for marking their own homework by self-regulating their own expense claims and behaviour.
1.240.14–241.12 Schrad.) or Pherecydes of Syros, both of whom are presumed to be active in the 6th century B.C.E., though Pherecydes is earlier and is often presumed to be the first writer of prose.
In rhetoric, an argumentum ad captandum, "for capturing" the gullibility of the naïve among the listeners or readers, is an unsound, specious argument designed to appeal to the emotions rather than to the mind.
The term initially garnered political attention in online discussions about defunding the police in 2020, but it has come to greater prominence in critique of media practices relating to Donald Trump in the 2024 United States presidential election.
464), producing "frame resonance", which is key to the process of a group transitioning from one frame to another (although not all framing efforts are successful).
As the merciful David succeeds the unjust Saul and is rewarded by God with the kingdom of Israel, so too, with the help of God, will William be rewarded a kingdom; being either or both the Netherlands, and the kingdom of God.
Another 19th-century example can be found in Thomas Carlyle's 1829 essay Signs of the Times: We have more Mathematics than ever; but less Mathesis.
He also orders that Edgar cut his hair in the "pumpkin shell" style in order to reflect the Puritans' strictness.
The opposite of catacosmesis is auxesis when used to refer to climax, wherein a series of clauses has increasing, rather than decreasing, force.
In linguistics, synesis (from Greek σύνεσις 'unification, meeting, sense, conscience, insight, realization, mind, reason') is a traditional grammatical/rhetorical term referring to agreement (the change of a word form based on words relating to it) due to meaning.
"Consonantal alliteration" is usually distinguished from other types of consonance and has different effects, for instance, it can increase the memorability of a passage and is often employed in slogans.
For example, saying "it has been decided" without stating by whom, and citation of unidentified "studies" or "publications" by "authorities" or "experts," provide further scope for weaseling.
Where was the Huxley, the Orwell, the Scott Fitzgerald, or even the Tom Wolfe, Jay McInerney, or Brett Easton Ellis to record this new world?
When she believes that he may have deserted her, she leaves to Yorkshire with Artemisia and is proposed to by Artemisia's nephew, Eugenio; she quickly refuses.
It can take the form of an enumeration of concrete details to such an extent that one can say that it crosses the conditions of form proper to a figure of speech.
Wellerisms, named after sayings of Sam Weller in Charles Dickens's novel The Pickwick Papers, make fun of established clichés and proverbs by showing that they are wrong in certain situations, often when taken literally.
Ware and Linkugel (1973) identified four common strategies seen in apologetic discourse, which are denial, bolstering, differentiation, and transcendence.
It was first used by Alexander Herzen in 1857 and then widely used until the 1970s, sometimes modified with doomsday weaponry: "Genghis Khan with nuclear bomb", "with hydrogen bomb", "with [ballistic] rockets".
This technique, however, can lead to biased reporting when a sound bite is selected for sensationalism, or is used to promote the point of view of one individual or group over another.
Definition Utamakura is a category of poetic words, often involving place names, that allow for greater allusions and intertextuality across Japanese poems.
By this deliberate reversal, hysteron proteron draws attention to the important point, so giving it primacy.
They recommend an interest in an object, rather than state that the interest already exists." These words have the tendency to encourage future actions, to lead the hearer towards a decision by affecting his or her system of interests.
One of these, Lo Spaccio de la Bestia Trionfante (The Expulsion of the Triumphant Beast, 1584), was famously reprised by James Joyce.
It is a figure of speech or discourse that is an incomplete sentence, consisting of a subject or complement without the requisite object.
Aristotle connected this skill with virtues like courage, wisdom, and generosity as ways that the speaker or any other person can use to appeal to his/her or their audience's emotions.
Examples of the original meaning include using "militate" for "mitigate", "chronic" for "severe", "travesty" for "tragedy", "anachronism" for "anomaly", "alibi" for "excuse", etc.
Notable allegorical sculptures The four cardinal virtues, by Maximilian Colt, on the monument to Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury in Bishop's Hatfield Church in the English county of Hertfordshire, before 1641.
Examples "Where affections bear rule, their reason is subdued, honesty is subdued, good will is subdued, and all things else that withstand evil, for ever are subdued." — Thomas Wilson "...
When the capital is used to refer specifically to the country's government, the figure of speech is a metonymy rather than a pars pro toto.
It can also be used in reverse to make the initial term seem better by comparison: "A isn't perfect but B is worse and C is worst." Examples From the First Letter to the Corinthians: "There are three things that will endure: faith, hope, and love.
History Ramón Gómez de la Serna is considered the father of the greguería, which he defined as humor plus metaphor.
For example, the code name of "Mogul" is used by the United States Secret Service to refer to the President of the United States Donald Trump.
This observation was named a panchronistic tendency by Stephen Ullmann since he saw the lowest levels of sense having the poorest vocabulary.
Another common example is a couple that has had an argument, after which one of them absents themselves from a subsequent social gathering, with the other claiming that they are ill, especially if this is a regular occurrence.
Quail, I can't stop; I've got to see a man about a dog." Time magazine observed that the phrase was the play's "claim to fame".
In the work of the poet Ennius, the literal splitting of the word cerebrum creates a vivid image: saxo cere comminuit brum "he shattered his brain with a rock." Old Irish Tmesis can be found in some early Old Irish texts, such as Audacht Morainn (The Testament of Morann).
Dialogue proverbs Wellerisms are similar but not identical to dialogue proverbs, as shown by Kapchits and Unseth.
Bitextual work (or bi-textual work) is a form of writing in which a single sequence of words yields two or more distinct interpretations by exploiting lexical polysemy and structural ambiguity.
Woman, also known by its French title L'Éternelle Tentatrice is a 1918 American silent drama film directed by Maurice Tourneur, an allegorical film showcasing the story of women through points in time.
Hypophora The hypophora is a hyponym of a rhetorical question, characterized by the speaker posing a question which is immediately answered by the speaker.
The manipulation of historical record and collective memory are at the centre of Oceania's political system Ingsoc.
The initial inferior options make the final term seem still better by comparison than it would appear in isolation: "X is good, Y is better, Z is best" is a standard format.
An example of a parechesis is: "He persuades the Pithian (πείθει τὸν Πειθίαν)." Hermogenes of Tarsus discusses parechesis in his work On the invention of arguments (Περὶ εὑρέσεως).
Sculptor Timothy Schmalz created a series of 100 sculptures, one for each canto, on the 700th anniversary of the date of Dante's death, and many visual artists have illustrated Dante's work, as shown by the examples above.
The repetition of initial consonant sounds in neighboring words (as wild and woolly, threatening throngs) is also called head rhyme or initial rhyme.
Although the tomb was pillaged, it still contained, in addition to the aforementioned artifacts, Byzantine coins, gold and jeweled ornaments, the latter including a "striking gold placque" inlaid with pearls and amber.
When the deputy minister of census Yang Yang (楊暘) also pointed this out, Yang was sent out of the capital.
Contents Introduction At the beginning of the text, Tryambaka invokes Ganadhipati, Sarasvati, and his teachers.
Today, the four Eastern Orthodox patriarchates—Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch and Jerusalem—alongside their Western counterpart, Rome, are regarded as "senior" (Greek: πρεσβυγενή, presbygenē, "senior-born") or "ancient" (παλαίφατα, palèphata, "of ancient fame") patriarchates.
Yang Chang's son Yang Yun (楊惲; died c.54 BC) helped to disseminate his maternal grandfather's magnum opus: the Shiji.
Indeed, the story is told through increasingly erratic entries in Myra's own personal diary and recordings on events given by Buck Loner.
Villages and neighbourhoods that are believed to originate from zadrugas can often be recognized by the patronymic suffixes, such as -ivci, -evci, -ovci, -inci, -ci, -ane, -ene, etc., based on family names.
Quan, thankful for the suggestion, wanted to give 500 of the surrendered Dangxiang to Cui as personal property, however Cui declined, pointing out that his proposal was for the state's benefit, not personal benefit.
With Emperor Yuan's brother Xiao Ji the Prince of Wuling also having claimed imperial title and attacking him from the west, Emperor Yuan pardoned Wang Lin, and Lu surrendered to Wang Lin.
Although a Christian community had existed in Damascus since apostolic times (Acts 9), the see continues to be known as the Patriarchate of Antioch.
Zheng counterattacked with his ally Tang Hongfu (唐弘夫), and they dealt the Qi forces a major defeat at Longwei Slope (龍尾陂, in modern Baoji).
Starting in 842 he was made governor of a succession of small poor rural prefectures, first Huangzhou, then Chizhou and Muzhou.
External links Chart and explanation of patrilocal residence Archived 2006-02-06 at the Wayback Machine
Du suggested that new Tang emissaries be sent to Nanzhao to mourn the death of Qiulong's father Fengyou (豐祐) and inform Qiulong that as soon as he changed his name, Tang would sanction his succession.
In August 2021, Yobidoyobi co-founder Konstantin Zimen said he and his business received a barrage of threats and abuse after Vladislav Pozdnyakov shared a Yobidoyobi ad featuring a black man on his social media pages and called for action to be taken.
His new base of Kedun was about 1500 km northwest of Beijing, probably along the Orkhon River in Bulgan Province.
Thus the rebel forces in Hedong lacked all middle and lower management, and Wei Gu and Fan Xian stayed put, training their troops while rebellion spread in adjacent commanderies.
In the tomb there is an epitaph stating the proximity of her tomb to the mausoleum of Gao Huan, paramount general of Northern Wei, as well as the founder of Eastern Wei.
He resigned the chancellor position on account of illness in 857, and was made a senior advisor to the Crown Prince.
He is best known as the writer of sensual, lyrical quatrains featuring historical sites or romantic situations, and often on themes of separation, decadence, or impermanence.
With the Byzantine–Bulgarian Treaty of 927, which affirmed the victory of the First Bulgarian Empire over the Byzantine Empire in the War of 913–927, the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople recognized the Bulgarian Patriarchate.
He also criticizes the use of the terms misandry and reverse sexism and the motives of the men's rights movement.
His grandfather was Wang Xiong (王雄; fl.220-235), a regional inspector (cishi) of You Prefecture (幽州刺史) under Cao Wei.
An example of son preference is demonstrated by the traditions of the Igbo people of Nigeria: "The status of a man is assessed in part by his number of sons.
With this, Hanpu became the chief of the Wanyan and his descendants became formal members of the Wanyan clan.
In summer 881, with Zheng, Tang Hongfu, Cheng Zongchu (程宗楚), Wang Chongrong, Wang Chucun, and Tuoba Sigong converging on Chang'an, Huang abandoned it.
Emperor Shengzong told her to hide her resentment towards Xiao Pusage since Xiao Pusage raised Zongzhen as a child.
His military achievements were all the more remarkable due to his physical weaknesses; it was recorded that he was unable to ride a horse or shoot an arrow with significant force.
He was appreciated by the likes of Wang Meng and Liu Tan and was entrusted with handling various military affairs.
There are also several autocephalous churches that function similarly to patriarchates, even though they do not use the patriarchal title.
Hou's strategist Wang Wei suggested to Hou that Wang Sengbian should be detained, but Hou decided against it and allowed Wang Sengbian to return to Jingling.
Meanwhile, as Pei was also serving as chief imperial censor by this point, he submitted an indictment against Yuwen for corruption and improper association with others, and he was demoted to be the sheriff of Pingle County (平樂, in modern Guilin, Guangxi).
During Emperor Taizong's reign Emperor Taizong honored Empress Shulü as empress dowager, and it was said that she made the key decisions for the state.
In 834, he was recalled to government service as the military governor of Zhongwu Circuit (忠武, headquartered in Xuchang, Henan).
The Memorial for Yelü Yanning (耶律延寧), also known as the Epitaph for Yelü Yanning, is the oldest known Khitan inscription of significant length and currently the oldest major written attestation of a Mongolic (or Para-Mongolic) language.
He became a consultant and joined the group of scholars who were ordered to prepare a fourth installment of the Record of Han.
Zheng Lang (Chinese: 鄭朗; died 857), courtesy name Yourong (有融), was a Chinese historian and politician during the Tang dynasty, who served as a chancellor during the reign of Emperor Xuānzong.
Summary In The Gender Knot, Johnson responds to men's and women's experiences in living with gender inequality.
During Emperor Wuzong's reign In 842, by which time Emperor Wenzong's brother Emperor Wuzong was emperor, there was an occasion when Zheng Lang, still then serving as Jianyi Daifu, along with his colleague Gao Shaoyi (高少逸), advised Emperor Wuzong that he was spending too much time in hunting.
The group was created by Vladislav Pozdnyakov in 2016 as a private community on the social network VKontakte.
In 687, he was made Nayan (納言)—the head of the examination bureau of government (鸞臺, Luantai), also a post considered one for a chancellor.
After Sima Rui, then the Prince of Langye, became in charge of the military operations in the area in 307, both Wang Dun and his cousin Wang Dao became key assistants to him, and it was said at the time that the domain was ruled equally by the Simas and the Wangs.
Meanwhile, it was said that the senior chancellor Zhang Yue despised Yuwen, but also did not view him as a threat, despite warnings from his subordinate Zhang Jiuling.
Pei, not wanting to carry this out, tried to deflect Zhu's recommendation by stating, "Zhang Tingfan had great accomplishments and should be a military governor.
During Emperor Gaozu's reign During the reign of Tang's founder Emperor Gaozu, Cui Dunli served as a mid-low-level official at the legislative bureau of government (中書省, Zhongshu Sheng).
Reception Carol Tavris writes in the Wall Street Journal that "[Rosin] avoids the journalistic habit of doing 'spotlight interviews' with individuals selected to support the writer's hypothesis, a practice she knows is misleading.
He privately told Dai that he had a son, Wang Tanheng (王曇亨), who was not known to the public yet and was hiding at his wet nurse's home.
Wang captured Liu, and also suppressed the aborigines of the region, and thereafter became well known.
He was also given the designation of Tong Zhongshu Menxia Sanpin (同中書門下三品), making him a chancellor de facto.
Oaks Presiding Bishop of the Church Of God In Christ Inc.: John Drew Sheard, Sr Executive Minister of Iglesia ni Cristo: Eduardo V.
When the wedding occurred, Emperor Wen authorized that the ceremony be as grand as if a princess were to be married.
According to the Book of Sui, Yang Jian the founding emperor of the Sui dynasty, was born to the Yang clan of Hongnong, and was a descendant of Yang Zhen.
Other versions have been produced on screen and television, for example, Chokher Bali by Rituparno Ghosh in 2003, and in the television series Stories by Rabindranath Tagore in 2015 by Anurag Basu.
From the Tang dynasty to the early Song dynasty, there were a total of ten men from the Lu family who served as chancellors in the imperial government.
Much of the Dangxiang army surrendered, and Quan initially wanted to slaughter them, stopping only after Cui pointed out that it was unfair to slaughter them all and also that this may cause a violent reaction.
He subsequently recovered slightly such that he could meet with Emperor Xizong with some physical assistance, and Emperor Xizong ordered that he be exempted from bowing to the emperor.
Inner kins (simplified Chinese: 宗亲; traditional Chinese: 宗親; pinyin: zōngqīn) is the kinship clan in Chinese patriarchy.
Arsen (1006–1008) -- Արսէն Mesrob (1008) -- Մեսրոպ Arsen (1008–1038), restored—Արսէն unknown Simeon I (1090–1109) -- Սիմէոն Ա.
While Pope Francis reinstated the historical title "Patriarch of the West" in 2024, it had been officially dropped by Pope Benedict XVI in 2006 and is not commonly used to describe the Pope's role within the Latin Church.
It argues that through this, women are excluded from the metaphysical covenant and the earthly covenant community, leading them to solely access God and the holy community as mothers.
In 728, Emperor Xuanzong gave Yuwen the additional posts as the examiner of Hebei Circuit (河北道, roughly modern Hebei, Beijing, and Tianjin) as well as deputy minister of census.
Around 1895, two four-family associations had organized: the San Francisco Lung Kong Association and the San Francisco Mu Tin Association (later changing its name to Ming Yee Association).
Lu initially declined, stating, "Civil service matters should be in the hands of the minister of civil service, and for me to handle them would be to exceed my authorities." Emperor Taizong insisted, stating, "I trust you.
William Wilson Chief Apostle of the New Apostolic Church: Jean-Luc Schneider President of the General Conference of the Seventh-day Adventist Church: Elder Erton Köhler President of the Baptist World Alliance: Tomás Mackey President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Dallin H.
After the blocking of Male State and two more of his communities on VKontakte, Pozdnyakov began to actively maintain his channel on Telegram, a messaging service, and has garnered more than 80 thousand subscribers.
The term was particularly used by writers associated with second-wave feminism such as Kate Millett; these writers sought to use an understanding of patriarchal social relations to liberate women from male domination.
Reasons Agrarian society Prior to globalization, during the Song, Ming and Qing dynasties, China was an agrarian society.
A lineage is a corporation, in the sense that members feel to belong to the same body, are highly conscious of their group identity, and derive benefits from jointly owned property and shared resources.
In the West, the female genital organs were named in relation to men’s, with ovaries deemed as ‘male testicles,’ and the uterus seen as the ‘female scrotum.’ It was not until the 17th century when female sex organs received the names we know today.
The Patriarchate of Constantinople was added in the 4th century, and the Patriarchate of Jerusalem followed in the 5th century.
In the text, she theorizes that women have won the gender war, having "pulled decisively ahead [of men] by almost every measure." Rosin uses the shift in the American economy as one of her main sources.
When Emperor Xuānzong received report of this, he sent the chancellor Cui Xuan to Huainan to serve as its military governor, and made Du a senior advisor to the Crown Prince, but with his office at the eastern capital Luoyang.
340 In a year between 338 and 340, nearly one hundred bishops met at Alexandria, where they declared in favor of Athanasius, rejecting the charges brought against him by the Eusebian faction at the First Synod of Tyre.
Background Cui Dunli was born in 596, originally named Cui Yuanli, His family was from "the second house of Boling" of the prominent Cui clan of Boling, although by the end of Northern Wei it had already relocated to Yong Prefecture (雍州, roughly modern Xi'an, Shaanxi).
Midas has his courtiers sacrifice to the gods to see if he can be relieved of his curse; Bacchus relents and tells him to bathe in the river.
It was said that Yuwen tried to further increase revenues by establish special offices, which caused the previously commissioned officials to have much less responsibilities.
Administrative and military career Huan Yi was from Zhi County (銍縣, in present-day Suixi County, Anhui), Qiao Commandery and was a kinsman to the general Huan Xuan (桓宣).
Excess male population has also been correlated with an increase in the popularity of pornography and commercial sex.
He was later recalled to Chang'an to serve as the minister of public works (工部尚書, Gongbu Shangshu) and the director of finances.
In reality, Shan Jian managed to escape to Xiakou (夏口; in present-day Wuhan, Hubei) while Wang Ru was forced to lift his siege due to the Han general, Shi Le.
According to Livingstone, social behavior drives evolution rather than the other way around: "Contrary to Goldberg, I do not believe that a genetic or physiological change will occur first and then cause social or behavioral change.
Mark Strange Archbishop of Armagh, Primate of the Church of Ireland: John McDowell Primate of the Anglican Church of Canada: The Most Rev.
In 1924, another building was acquired at 924 Grant Avenue, named the "Ming Yee Building", in which the San Francisco Lung Kong Association has resided ever since.
He was a staunch Confucianist and was alarmed by the growth of Xuanxue philosophy among the court ministers.
Shang would often visit the General Who Maintains the West, Yu Yi at Wuchang to discuss with him about military affairs.
Միսիրցի Mesrob (1454–1461) -- Մեսրոպ Bedros (1461–1476) -- Պետրոս Mgrdich Elovtzee (1476–1479) -- Մկրտիչ Ելովցի Abraham VI Pereeahtzee (1479–1485) -- Աբրահամ Զ.
Daughter preference or son preference is sometimes expressed by higher levels of household investment in offspring of preferred gender.
Prominent members Zhou Fang, Jin general and official Zhou Hui, maternal grandfather of Prince Sima Tan and in-law of Emperor Wu of Jin Zhou Fu, Jin official Zhou Yi, Jin official == References ==
She accused it of spawning what she sees as the excesses of women's studies departments, especially for attacks on the alleged pervasive sexism of the male authors of the Western canon.
She gave her great-grandfather the honorable title of Prince of Lanling (蘭陵郡王), father the title of King of Qi (齊國王) and made her brothers kings, disregarding Liao rules.
Tryambaka also states that a woman's male relatives - including her husband - cannot use her property without her permission.
The prevalent forms of dynastic succession in Europe, Asia and parts of Africa were male-preference primogeniture, agnatic primogeniture, or agnatic seniority until after World War II.
Basilica The most massive element of the complex is a church with nine (then eleven) naves, from which the largest measures 12.80 metres and eleven bays whose pillars have Corinthian capitals, the barrels of the columns are made out of green marble and the bases out of white marble.
Later that year, he was made Neishi (內史)—the head of the legislative bureau of government (鳳閣, Fengge) and a post considered one for a chancellor.
By virtue of this multi-provincial oversight, the sees of Rome, Alexandria and Antioch were already exercising a "supra-metropolitan" jurisdiction, later termed as Patriarchates.
The Lung Kong Tin Yee Association, also known as the Four Families (四姓), is a worldwide ethnic fraternity, primarily a four-surname clan association for overseas Chinese.
Son preference in China is a gender preference issue underpinned by the belief that boys have more value than girls.
Distraught after Ramage tries to force himself on her, Ann Veronica temporarily abandons her studies and devotes herself to the cause of women's suffrage; she is arrested storming Parliament and spends a month in prison.
In 856, he was further given the designation Tong Zhongshu Menxia Pingzhangshi (同中書門下平章事), making him a chancellor de facto.
They gather people who share the same surname belonging to the same kin, who often have the same geographical origin (ancestral home), and therefore the same patron deities.
Furthermore, prostitution was defined in a range of ways and the "reality was that hard economic times meant that for many women, prostitution was the only way to make ends meet.
When Emperor Wen initially stated that he was going to give him the rank of Yitong (fourth rank, first division), Li Min therefore said nothing.
A male heir (sometimes heirs male)—usually describing the first-born son (primogeniture) or oldest surviving son of a family—has traditionally been the recipient of the residue of the estate, titles, wealth and responsibilities of his father in a patrilineal system.
There are records on the association in the Library at Lambeth Palace, the seat of the Archbishop of Canterbury in London, and in the National Archives.
One of the Northern dynasties during the era of the Northern and Southern dynasties, it ruled the western part of northern China from 535 to 557 AD.
Gold neck rings, symbolizing the highest status of a successful feast host have been found in female graves indicating that women continued the practices traditionally upheld by men.
The heir and the spare: Impact of birth order on risk attitudes, discount rates, and behaviors (Order No.
Although smaller than the Eastern Wei in territory and population, Western Wei was able to withstand the attacks from the eastern empire, most notably at the Battle of Shayuan in 537.
She would eventually become the de facto ruler of the Manchu Qing Dynasty in China for 47 years after her son's death.
While the officials Yuan Qianyao and Meng Wen (孟溫) successively served as the mayors of Jingzhao, both of them respected his abilities.
Despite her young age, she is credited with playing a pivotal role in Northern China's mid-sixth-century politics.
Each chapter traces a different aspect of "the development of the leading ideas, symbols, and metaphors by which patriarchal gender relations were incorporated into Western civilization (Lerner 10).
The Patriarch of Alexandria (also known as the Bishop of Alexandria or Pope of Alexandria) is the highest-ranking bishop of Egypt.
During Emperor Wenzong's reign During the Kaicheng era (836–840) of Emperor Muzong's son Emperor Wenzong, Zheng Lang was made an imperial chronicler (起居郎, Qiju Lang).
The constraints of the patriarchal bargain are reinforced by immigration policies which require the husband's involvement in the wife's citizenship application, and which reward reproductive labour with simpler routes to citizenship.
Plot The story takes place in a world which diverged from ours in 1888, when a mysterious explosion killed Queen Victoria and her entire immediate family, with the exception of Duke "Eddy" of Clarence, who survived as a brain damaged cripple and was thus unable to succeed to the throne.
Figures like JD Vance have been associated with a resurgence of neopatriarchal ideas, advocating for a return to traditional family structures and gender roles.
In October 2022 the Supreme Court of India strongly criticized the utilization of the "two-finger test" in rape and sexual assault cases and urged the central government to take immediate steps to cease the practice.
It was said that the environment of Yan Prefecture was humid and unhealthy, causing Yuwen to be ill.
Family Younger Brothers Lu Cheng'en (盧承恩) Lu Chengti (盧承悌) Lu Chengji (盧承基) Lu Chengye (盧承業) Lu Chengtai (盧承泰) Lu Chengli (盧承禮) Lu Chengfu (盧承福) Sons According to New Book of Tang vol.
Even a man as benevolent as the Duke of Zhou executed his brothers, the lords of Guan and Cai, for their crimes.
Wang Cheng uncovered Meng Jiu's treachery and persuaded Sima Ying to execute him, much to the joy of many.
Two out of the five major branches remained in Hong Kong (Ping Shan and Kam Tin) while the other three moved back to mainland China.
He was married to Princess Le'an (乐安公主), daughter of Gao Cheng, in 541, and is the last known khan of the Rourans.
Yang Jun (楊俊) (571 – 4 August 600), nicknamed Azhi (阿祇) and formally known as Prince Xiao of Qin (秦孝王), was an imperial prince of the Chinese Sui dynasty.
In spring 608, Emperor Yang conscripted over a million men to construct the Yongji Canal (永濟渠), from the Yellow River to Zhuo Commandery (涿郡, roughly modern Beijing).
Shen Youzhi, however, informed Emperor Ming of the plot, and Emperor Ming then had those rebel officers executed, except for Shen, whom he began to trust and made him a guard commander again.
Rather than waiting for Xiahou Dun's forces to crush the Hedong rebels, Du Ji chose to use subterfuge.
Because Yao, Lu, and Cui each had their strengths and weaknesses, Li Congke could not decide on whom to commission.
In 616, after Shu's death, Emperor Yang made Yuwen Huaji protector-general of the right camp (右屯衛将軍) and Zhiji supervisor of indequity (将作少監).
Goldberg next provides expert witnesses from several disciplines regarding correlations between behaviour and the hormone testosterone, which are known to be causative in several cases, including dominance preference.
After he had spent more than a year at Pingle, the deputy minister Jiang Cen (蔣岑) further accused Yuwen of corruption while serving as prefect of Bian Prefecture.
She was born into the imperial house of the Eastern Wei dynasty and was a descendant of Tuoba Yulü of the Dai dynasty and of Empress Pingwen.
He decided to claim that Emperor Taizong had ordered him to turn over central China to Li Congyi, a prince of Later Jin's predecessor state Later Tang.
During Emperor Gaozong's reign In 649, Emperor Taizong died and was succeeded by his son Li Zhi (as Emperor Gaozong).
But after 536, they permanently established separate patriarchates, and have maintained separate lineages of Patriarchs.
Huan Yi administered the province for ten years, being well-respected by its populace for his fair and competent treatment of them.
The historical Church of the East and consequently the Catholicos of the Assyrian Church of the East and recently the Patriarch of the Ancient Church of the East consider themselves also as successors of St.Thomas, a belief that was previously held by the Maphrain of the Syriac orthodox church.
(Աստուածատուր Տարօնցի) Yeghiazar Hromglayetzee (coadjutor) (1664–1665) -- Եղիազար Հռոմկլայեցի Theodore III of Jerusalem (Asdvadzadoor Daronetzee) (1665–1666), restored—Թէոդորոս Գ.
73, Lu Chengqing only had a son named Lu Xu (盧諝), who would serve as director of ministry of personnel (吏部郎中).
Northern and Southern dynasties The Zheng clan first became prominent in the Northern and Southern dynasties period as officials in Northern Wei, beginning with Zheng Xi (426–492).
Emperor Xizong praised him for the petition and ordered that it be implemented, but it was not actually implemented.
Members Father and mother (父母; fùmǔ) ― the mother is "transplanted" (嫁; jià) to father by her family of origin (原生家庭; yuánshēng jiātíng).
He would exempt particularly filial sons and dutiful wives from state labour, and taught improved farming methods to increase harvests.
Besides the killing of his clansman Wang Cheng in c.312, Wang Dun also orchestrated the killing of another clansman, Wang Leng (王棱), in c.315.
The Zhou family of Runan (Chinese: 汝南周氏; pinyin: Rǔnán Zhōu shì) was a notable Chinese family which descended from Ji Lie (姬烈), the youngest son of King Ping of the Zhou dynasty in 8th century BCE China.
He was one of the most important commanders under the Wei general Zhong Hui during the conquest of Wei's rival state, Shu.
Synopsis The book uses analysis of horror fiction to explore the cultural idea that a woman's body is lesser or a deformed version of a man's body.
Central government service At a later point, Cui Zhiwen was recalled to Chang'an to serve as a secretary general of the executive bureau of government (尚書省, Shangshu Sheng).
Prominent members Wang Yun (137-192), Eastern Han official Wang Ling (172-251), nephew of Wang Yun, Cao Wei official Wang Chang (d.
As of 659, Lu was serving as the minister of treasury, when he was given the designation Canzhi Zhengshi (參知政事), making him a chancellor de facto.
In 681, he was made acting Zhongshu Ling (中書令)—the head of the legislative bureau of government (中書省, Zhongshu Sheng) and a post considered one for a chancellor.
Largely concerned with gender issues, Midas comments on the definitions of femininity and masculinity in the early nineteenth century and the developing ideology of separate spheres which encouraged women to restrict themselves to domestic affairs and men to political affairs.
He later served as the governor of Yang Province (揚州, modern Zhejiang and southern part of Jiangsu and Anhui).
Shang recognized him even when he wore a common headscarf, and the two talked with one another like old friends.
When Baba Segi is called to the hospital for tests of his own, the first three wives know that the game will shortly be up.
In addition to these, two modern patriarchates have been established: the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church and the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church.
In 656, Cui, who had been given an additional post as a staff member of Emperor Gaozong's son and crown prince Li Hong as well, offered to resign on account of illness.
It is they who perpetuate the family name, and preserve the ancestral property." Absence or inadequacy of a male heir has thus been periodically problematic, resulting in succession crises, corporate upheaval, and the occasional war.
In 1141, Dashi, interceding in a conflict between the Karakhanids and Karluk nomads, came into direct conflict with the Seljuks.
Yelü Yanning reached the area of present-day Hulunbuir in Inner Mongolia near the source of the Heilongjiang river and continued to the Kherlen River in present-day eastern Mongolia where he met with success.
Rebellions In 960, Yelü Xiyin plotted a rebellion against then-reigning Emperor Muzong (Emperor Taizong's son Yelü Jing).
Unofficial caste There are sources that describe the Khap as an unofficial caste system where the panchayat dominates all other members of the group.
Families with sons have been shown to have increased levels of "marital stability and marital satisfaction," and the presence of sons may increase paternal involvement in child-rearing.
A stage adaptation was first performed in 1904, and the movie Chokher Bali (1938 film) directed by Satu Sen was released in 1938, which Tagore saw and he expressed his satisfaction with the performance in the film.
Roman Catholic Church Within the Catholic Church, six patriarchs lead the Eastern Catholic Churches sui iuris.
Fragments of stars were found among the remains of the ceiling (now collapsed), which was once decorated with the firmament, and mythological images.
The Liao emperor Tianzuo fled west, and his uncle Prince Yelü Chun then formed the short-lived Northern Liao in its southern capital of Liao Nanjing (now Beijing).
Why Men Rule: A Theory of Male Dominance (Chicago, La Salle, and Peru, Illinois: Open Court Publishing Company, 1993), 254+XII Pp., ISBN 9780812692365.
Adaptations Television It was filmed for television in 1952 with Margaret Lockwood in the title role.
He saw this veneration of "non-being" as the cause for Wang Yan and his follower's negligence over government affair, as He Yan and Wang Bi's teachings dissuade taking too much premeditated interference in daily affairs as the best way will naturally take its course.
However, Gein's father was physically abusive towards both him and his mother, and Doyle argues that Gein's mother was Gein's only emotional support in a misogynistic society.
An exception to the trend of remaining north was Du Yi (杜乂), who achieved fame as an elegant gentleman in the Eastern Jin court, but died without issue.
As empress, she was described as brave, resolute, and full of strategies, often participating in Emperor Taizu's military decisions.
Legacy The dynasty Yelü established would last until its usurpation by Kuchlug followed by conquest of its domain by Genghis Khan in 1218.
For Shelley, these commercial efforts are particularly masculine; Midas's ears, which symbolise emasculation, are juxtaposed to masculinising gold.
Biography Princess Lanling was a native of Luoyang County, Henan (now east of Luoyang, Henan Province), a descendant of Tuoba Yulü.
Thus it was that in the chaotic collapse of the Han dynasty, Hedong was one of the first commanderies stabilised under Cao Cao's rule, and with the least wasted effort and resources.
As of 844, Du was serving as the military governor of Huainan Circuit (淮南, headquartered in modern Yangzhou, Jiangsu), when Emperor Wuzong issued an order to the eunuch monitor of Huainan Circuit that he should select 17 prostitutes who were capable in drinking games and send them to the palace.
A man with many sons is viewed as a wealthy or an accomplished man." Igbo men that die without fathering sons are seen as having been "unaccomplished or a misfit" and are not given ceremonial second burials.
Du Tao's rebellion During this period, there was an influx of refugees in Jing province from the Ba-Shu region fleeing from the war against the Cheng-Han rebel state.
At the end of the period, he returned to the government and successively served as Gentleman of the Personnel Bureau, General Who Establishes Might, Intendant of Danyang, Prefect of the Palace Writers and Chief of Affairs to the Crown Prince.
Yang Su wrote a return note detailing his security precautions, but by error the palace attendants delivered it to the Emperor.
History After the Xianbei general Yuwen Tai killed the Northern Wei emperor Yuan Xiu, he installed Yuan Baoju as emperor of Western Wei while Yuwen Tai would remain as the virtual ruler.
Steven Brown Goldberg (14 October 1941 – 17 December 2022) was the chair of the Department of Sociology at the City College of New York from 1988 until his retirement in 2008.
As a primate of the Old Catholic Church in communion with the see of Utrecht, he is considered first among equals though he does not have jurisdictional authority.
Early career Wang Dun was a member of the Wang clan of Langya, being the son of the Jin official Wang Ji (王基; son of Wang Lan (王览) and nephew of Wang Xiang), and he married Emperor Wu of Jin's daughter Princess Xiangcheng.
Wang, who was then at Xiao Yi's headquarters in Jiangling, wanted to wait for Jingling Commandery troops to arrive, and so he and Bao personally visited Xiao Yi to request a delay.
He held posts of governorship of Taizhou (泰州, in modern Tailai County, Heilongjiang) and Xiangzhou (祥州, in modern Wanjinta Township, Nong'an County).
Wang Cheng was shocked and grabbed him by his clothes, but Wang Dun broke free and came back with a strong man named Lu Rong (路戎).
In 568, her grandfather Yang Zhong died, and her father Yang Jian inherited the title of Duke of Sui.
Pei Wei suggest that they wait for a pretext, as many officials in the palace were comfortable with how the regime was doing.
The eight Peis (八裴) refer to eight siblings from the Pei family whose fame was on par with the Wang family of Langya, another prominent political family who played an important role in the Six Dynasties era.
Descendants of Tang of Kam Tin further spread to Ha Tsuen, Tsz Tin Tsuen, Lung Yeuk Tau, Sha Tau Kok, Tai Po Tau, and other places.
Alongside the Cui clan of Boling, the Lu clan of Fanyang and the Wang clan of Taiyuan, the Zhengs were one of the "Four Surnames" of Northern Wei.
Between 1940 and 1948, the Gothic romance film was prevalent in Hollywood, being produced by well-known directors and actors.
In 690, just prior to Empress Dowager Wu taking the throne herself from Emperor Ruizong as the "emperor" of her own Zhou dynasty, interrupting the Tang dynasty, she executed a number of officials and Tang imperial clan members, including Pei.
Branches These are the branches of the Li clan of Zhao Commandery: Eastern ancestry (東祖) Western ancestry (西祖) Southern ancestry (南祖) Prominent members Grand Chancellors of the Tang Empire Li Jiao Li Huaiyuan Li Youdao Li Fan Li Jifu Li Jiang Li Shen Li Deyu Li Jue Li Guyan == References ==
Northern expeditions In 352, the Jin Grand Marshal, Yin Hao was petitioned to lead a campaign to reclaim Luoyang and Xuchang in northern China.
Du Yi died early, and Du Lingyang, who did not have any brothers, was raised by her mother Lady Pei Mu (裴穆).
In the United States, the American Solidarity Party generally adheres to Distributist principles as its economic model.
Guiding questions in this regard concern in what way an intersectional approach might bring to the surface certain previously obscured experiences of oppression.
Frontman Kim Wilson was "mortified by his (Limbaugh's) attack on this young woman." Susan MacMillan Emry, a Californian who previously had not been politically active, founded a public relations campaign called Rock the Slut Vote in response to Limbaugh's comments about Fluke.
These extreme judgements of likeable and unlikeable (i.e., deviant) ingroup members, relatively to comparable outgroup members is called "black sheep effect".
It was reviewed by Time magazine, which said the authors smuggled the book out of Spain into Gibraltar, and feared reprisal from Spanish agents even though they had moved to New Jersey.
The public hypersphere, however, is not limited to publishing or the European café culture, not even to the Internet but includes the larger part of human relations, mediated or not.
A gift or present is an item given to someone (who is not already the owner) without the expectation of payment or anything in return.
The Banyan will act as capacity building partners on this project, and will also share the protocols and values of their emergency care and recovery services, so that they will be replicated in these new centres.
The projections in the report assume this with no upper limit, though at a slowing pace depending on circumstances in individual countries.
In a report released by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention studying the COVID-19 hospitalizations among American children, it was found that 40% of the studied hospitalized children were Hispanic and 33% were Black.
Citizens gain new liberties in expressing and retrieving information but also new ways to establish personal contacts.
By the 1970s, most domestic labourers worked in institutional settings such as hospitals, hotels, or schools.
Sandra Bartky identified disturbances in body image, gender expression and power dynamics as manifestations of internalized sexism in women.
The Banyan is a non-governmental organization based in Chennai, India that was founded in 1993 by Vandana Gopikumar and Vaishnavi Jayakumar to cater to mentally-ill and homeless women in the city.
Two males, who were 15 and 16 years old and were members of a Chinese street gang, were arrested and convicted.
Hybrid financial exploitation Hybrid Financial Exploitation (HFE) is financial exploitation that co-occurs with physical abuse and/or neglect.
On 28 May 2002, Indonesian maid Sundarti Supriyanto killed her employer Angie Ng and Ng's daughter Crystal Poh, and set fire to Ng's Bukit Merah office in Singapore.
This idea of inherited wealth and connections discouraging future generations to work hard can also be attributed to dynastic politicians.
Amnesty International states that the persecution is "politically motivated" with "legislation being used retroactively to convict people on politically-driven charges, and new regulations introduced to further restrict fundamental freedoms".
Researchers have studied the prevalence of psychological distress and mental illness among homeless youth in Australia.
This result was surprising to Milgram because he thought that "subjects have learned from childhood that it is a fundamental breach of moral conduct to hurt another person against his will".
The major risk of underdiagnosis due to the bereavement clause is that it would prevent individuals from getting the treatment they could receive with a diagnosis.
Caller ID provides some protection against unwanted calls, but can still be turned off by the calling party.
O'Brien would be eligible to come forward with claims to the ICRP, although O'Brien died in 2014 before he could answer accusations.
It was stated that nonfatal injuries because of aggression were three times more frequent against health care professionals than private industry workers.
The two women initially raised $12,500 and used this money to purchase $1.5 million of medical debt through RIP Medical Debt, which was then forgiven.
His mother had left her home because of domestic violence, and Traian ran from home sometime after his mother left.
The formulation of the exceptions enshrined in the law seems to be too vague and too general, thus giving room for public institutions to interpret it in a way that restricts access to information.
Potential cause Shortly after the fire, Sal Rivera from the Castro County Sheriff's Office said that the explosion could have been caused by a machine known as the "honey badger," which he described as a "vacuum that sucks the manure and water out".
While working as the landlord at The Copper Pot, Diarmuid occasionally also returned to work as a carpenter.
Africa's share of global population is projected to grow from 17% in 2020 to 25% in 2050 and 38% by 2100, while the share of Asia will fall from 60% in 2020 to 55% in 2050 and 45% in 2100.
These debates occurred alongside efforts by the post-apartheid government to redress historical injustices and promote inclusion.
It was founded in 1963 in Tottenville, Staten Island by Daniel Harold Casriel along with Monsignor William B.
Medical debt is consuming Americans, in fact, it is the number one cause of bankruptcy, because more than 60% of Americans deplete their savings due to some unexpected healthcare cost.
The Federation of South End Settlements was made up of the South End House, Lincoln House (1892), Hale House (1895), Harriet Tubman House (1904), Ellis Memorial House, and Eldridge House.
Family background Ann Rose Lovett was born on 6 April 1968 in Cóbh General Hospital (now Cóbh Community Hospital) on Aileen Terrace in Cóbh, a town on the south coast of County Cork.
See also Durban III Israel and apartheid International Day for Tolerance United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379 References External links WCAR website Summary of Durban Declaration Radio France Internationale "Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, G.A.
The United Nations (1945 onward): Through its specialized institutions, sought to promote more stable and concrete dialogue and cooperation between its members.
The factors that contributed to whether or not a person was more likely to not follow their prescribed medication instructions were age, the number of checkups with a physician, ongoing health problems, income, and insurance coverage.
Not receiving this income may have led many families to increase their debt burden, a significant factor in the 2007–2009 subprime mortgage crisis, as highly leveraged homeowners suffered a much larger reduction in their net worth during the crisis.
Dreaming of a Vetter World is a 2018 American documentary film directed by filmmaker Bonnie Hawthorne.
Ensuring that every year until ratification the Secretary of State reports to Parliament any alterations to the timescale of ratification, the measures taken by the government towards ratification and the measures still needed before ratification.
Frosch described Reason's model in mathematical terms as a model in percolation theory, which he analyses as a Bethe lattice.
United Kingdom Londoners, and perhaps others, extend the appellation to include those who roam in the midst of stopped traffic to not only wash windscreens, but also hawk items such as roses and newspapers.
Foer notes that most people recognize there is something bad about eating animals, but that people willingly forget this is the case.
Program 500 plus miał na celu zwiększenie dzietności, jch In 2016, Beata Szydło's government received the European Confederation of Large Families (ELFAC) Award, for its outstanding achievements in family-friendly policy, particularly for the "Rodzina 500+" program.
Muslim residents of the former British India migrated to Pakistan (including East Pakistan, now Bangladesh), whilst Hindu and Sikh residents of Pakistan and Hindu residents of East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) moved in the opposite direction.
Historian Violette Pouillard argues that such behaviors constitute a form of “silent resistance”, a response to oppressive conditions when direct defiance is suppressed.
About 900,000 gang members lived "within local communities across the country", and about 147,000 were in U.S.
Applications BDI was part of the inspiration behind the BDI software architecture, which Bratman was also involved in developing.
It was a nationwide problem that spanned nearly all industries and helped contribute to modern business conditions still seen today.
The intros of episodes in the series often use clips of these videos that have been distorted or exaggerated in a surreal effect.
Cost in the system are classified as a credence-costs as the buyer cannot tell the quantity bought even after buying them.
Blackstone's Commentaries repeats this story, but adds an additional take—that there were laws making it a capital offense to break into a garden and steal figs, and that the law was so odious that informers were given the name sycophants.
Class is also experienced differently depending on race, gender, ethnicity, global location, disability, and more.
See also References External links The dictionary definition of impunity at Wiktionary International Center for Transitional Justice, Criminal Justice page
These rights are enumerated in the core conventions of international human rights law, though not all HRC members or UNFCCC parties are signatories of these conventions.
See also Accessible toilet Mixed bathing Unisex public toilet References External links Why gender-neutral locker room design is more efficient and increasingly popular in public service facilities, Zimmerman Architectural Studios, Inc.
Clear Channel Communications, the owner of Premiere Networks and a large number of Limbaugh's affiliates, has reaffirmed its support for Limbaugh, whose contract at the time ran through 2016.
Individuals from rural backgrounds may experience that their practical skills or experiences are not recognized as "formal qualifications," even though they carry significant functional value.
These circumstances arise within a framework of behaviors characterized by contempt, stigmatization, rejection, mockery and ridicule, among other adverse and negative attitudes directed toward individuals who were either born or raised in a rural setting, such as a farm or a small village.
Teachers and school officials in Israel are allowed and encouraged to carry firearms if they have former military experience in the IDF, which almost all do.
There are methods to help mitigate the environmental impact imposed by feral cats through different forms of population management.
In the United States, families have filed lawsuits alleging that sycophancy and prolonged interactions with language models played a role in self‑harm or suicide.
People are more inclined to help an identified victim than an unidentified one, and people are more inclined to help a single identified victim than a group of identified victims.
The law entitles any natural or legal person the right to access information held in any form by state and local authorities, public companies and other entities which exercise public functions.
In contrast, LGBT characters portrayed as complex characters who are more than a cipher for their sexual orientation or identity are a step in the right direction.
Background Especially in the agriculture-based economies of Africa, agriculture is the sector that can affect not only poverty reduction and food security, but can also foster economic growth and sustain the environment.
The decision to help an identified victim is made ex post, after the victim is in danger, but the decision to save a statistical victim is often made ex ante, to prevent danger to the individual.
Global food production Food security differs around the world, with some regions being much more prone to food insecurity due to both lack of fertile land, as well as capital that could procure sufficient food through the purchasing of imports.
British sociologist David Hirsh noted that Zionist academics “have not been able to publish, people were not able to do the things that you need to do in order to build a career in academia”.
Data exclusivity Data exclusivity is a regulatory measure limiting the use of clinical trial data and provides conductor of the trial temporary exclusive rights to the data.
Examples include fines and fees that the person is unable to pay, anti-homelessness laws and actions, and interconnections between welfare and criminal law.
Reports have associated the practice with significant psychological distress, fear of retaliation, and a reluctance to report incidents due to social stigma.
Another origin of the concept is in the writings of Calvinist law-philosopher Johannes Althaus who used the word subsidia in 1603.
Kenen writes, "Despite its accessible appeal and riveting subject matter, Sexing the Body will likely be disappointing to the specialized audience that reads Isis.
The prevalence of difficulties in left-right discrimination was investigated in a cohort of 2,720 adult members of Mensa and Intertel by Storfer.
There were rumors circulating around Chinese communities and the Internet (especially with e-mail chain letters) to avoid certain Chinese restaurants and supermarkets in many urban and suburban Chinatowns because they could allegedly contract the virus.
The story ends with Hume, disgusted at having been treated so badly, removing Clara from his will and testament.
The lesser-known anarchist branch of distributism of Day and the Catholic Worker Movement can be considered a form of free-market libertarian socialism due to their opposition to state capitalism and state socialism.
Another example is the Pullman Strike in 1894, where almost 4,000 workers who were members of the American Railway Union (ARU) went on a strike without permission of the union to protest wage cuts by the Pullman Company.
The Committee on World Food Security (CFS) is an intergovernmental body within the United Nations System.
A person does not have to have each of these but if something has all five, then it definitely is a person whether it is biologically human or not, while if it has none or perhaps only one, then it is not a person, whether it is biologically human or not.
Brewer notes that ordinary people, as opposed to politicians, can promote peace in post-conflict situations, based on ethics and "moral duty".
This has resulted in higher hospitalization rates for people with diabetes who live in a food swamp designated area.
Francis Grose added in his Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue (1796) "and formerly, as it is said, a live eel", but that is very unlikely.
This abuse of resources may come in the form of time, office supplies, raw materials, finished products or the services that they provide.
Commissioners Current Commissioners Past Commissioners See also List of data protection authorities by country References External links National Privacy Commission Republic Act No.
An employee who is less satisfied with his or her work may become less productive, as their needs are not met.
In general, premiums are higher for policies that provide more monthly benefits, offer benefits for longer periods of time, and start payments of benefits more quickly following a disability claim.
Many governmental and non-governmental organizations active in the human rights field also schedule special events to commemorate the day, as do many civil and social-cause organisations.
Visiting those detained in relation to conflicts and enabling them to restore and maintain contact with their families, is a very important part of the ICRC's mandate.
That the music is low frequency sonically and regarded as reflective of a lower culture shows the influential connection between counterculture and the music produced.
For example, exposure to prejudice may lead to rumination, which is a common psychological phenomenon characterized by a maladaptive, repetitive, and obsessive focus on a past event that leads to depressive and anxious symptoms.
Steering Committee members include Olanike Adeyemo, Hilal Elver, Patrick Webb, and Cecilia Elizondo.
In a report released in October 2022, HKDC criticized executives that attended Global Financial Leaders' Investment Summit were "lending credibility" to the whitewashing campaign of Hong Kong authorities and to John Lee.
These outcomes reflect complex factors including patent protections, lack of price negotiation for public insurance programs, limited generic competition, and opaque pricing practices throughout the supply chain.
[...] This was essentially an expression of local community attitudes with [...] the preference for male offspring.
However, when everything seemed to be going smoothly, Yaima's parents decided to file a lawsuit against Thaba and her second husband in an effort to obtain custody of their daughter from their previous marriage.
All day long the phone-message slips pile up on their desks—calls from famous people seeking favors—but at night they realize the tub needs scrubbing, so it's down on the hands and knees with the Ajax.
Timetable Through the Commons The Bill had its first reading in the House of Commons on the 29 June 2016 and its second reading on the 16 December 2016.
By acknowledging the compounded effects of intersecting identities, multiplicative models reveal that marginalized groups may need targeted strategies to address the challenges they face.
A secret annex to the Treaty of Lausanne granted immunity to the perpetrators of the Armenian genocide and put an end to the effort to prosecute Ottoman war criminals.
Similarly, Cyr and colleagues found that about 70% of sibling incest involved sexual penetration, substantially higher than other forms of incest.
Through its tracing services and working with the 189 national Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies around the world, the ICRC seeks to obtain information about their fate on behalf of their families.
Activity The AWA formed branches in many Palestinian cities and towns, and became the leading organization of the Palestinian women's movement.
The Launch Station will be the first step towards a full-scale Sahara Forest Project Centre in Aqaba, Jordan.
BDI is fundamentally reliant on folk psychology (the 'theory theory'), which is the notion that our mental models of the world are theories.
Through the Lords and royal assent The Bill had its first reading on the 27 February 2017 and its second reading on the 10 March.
He further wrote, "I believe as long as man tortures and kills animals, he will torture and kill humans as well—and wars will be waged—for killing must be practiced and learned on a small scale".
Quinn's ideas are popularly associated with environmentalism, though he criticized this term for portraying the environment as separate from human life, thus creating a false dichotomy, and the mainstream environmental movement as misguided and ultimately ineffective.
In the long term, these effects can lead to increased conflict over dwindling resources and in the worst case a Malthusian catastrophe.
This was before the ratification of the 17th Amendment to the constitution of the United States in 1913, which introduced direct elections for the office of senator.
Robert Mayanja (1982) lost his parents in the Ugandan Civil War at the age of three, when Milton Obote's soldiers raided their village, around 50 miles (80 km) from Kampala.
The intrepid Midgley, on the other hand, seems willing to speculate about the subjective experience of tapeworms ...
Quinn cautioned that his admiration for the sustainable lifestyles of indigenous tribes is not intended to encourage a massive "return" to hunting and gathering.
Earmarks may be used, although non-traumatic methods such as tattooing their tails and painting spots on white mice with crystal violet or permanent markers can be used as well.
In The Acharnians, a Megarian attempting to sell his daughters is confronted by a sycophant who accuses him of illegally attempting to sell foreign goods; and a Boeotian purchases a sycophant as a typical Athenian product that he cannot obtain at home.
Framing the issue Some people see the matter as primarily one of women's health, such as the National Women's Law Center.
Protests and appeal There was outrage at the convictions from charity workers, academics, and Members of Parliament from all parties.
Intervention Non-violent resistance (NVR) is an approach designed to overcome a child’s aggressive, controlling, and self-destructive behaviors.
This includes the Emergency Care and Recovery Center offered in hospital-based settings, the Center for Mental Health and Inclusive Development promoting the Home Again model and the Center for Social Needs and Livelihood.
"Assessing international evaluations: An example from USAID's Democracy and Governance Programs" (PDF).
On July 3, 2023, Hong Kong authorities issued an arrest warrant for eight overseas activists including HKDC's executive director Anna Kwok, citing efforts by overseas activists encouraging Western countries to sanction Hong Kong officials.
Collective narcissism is related to ethnocentrism; however, ethnocentrism primarily focuses on self-centeredness at an ethnic or cultural level, while collective narcissism is extended to any type of ingroup beyond just cultures and ethnicities.
See also Diseases of poverty Food Justice Movement Socioeconomic status and mental health Transit desert Transport divide Environmental racism Environmental Racism in the United States == References ==
See also References Citations Sources External links The Presumption of Innocence in the French and Anglo-American Legal Traditions Archived 2012-11-24 at the Wayback Machine The History of Presumed Innocence What’s Wrong with Military Trials of Terrorist Suspects?
There had been unresolved clashes and arguments in the past between the director's men and Thaba's son regarding Yaima and Nungshithoi's daughter.
Status–income disequilibrium (sometimes abbreviated SID) occurs when a desirable high status job has a relatively low income.
According to friends, Moxley began flirting with, and eventually kissed, Thomas Skakel, the older brother of 15-year-old Michael Skakel.
The act made provisions for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and set out a reporting process for the Secretary of State.
INL CTOC efforts include helping foreign governments build effective law enforcement institutions that combat transnational organized crime, everything from money laundering, cybercrime, and intellectual property theft to trafficking in goods, people, weapons, drugs, or endangered wildlife.
The increased amount of obesity can be contributed to the nutrition transition that describes how people are now increasingly turning to high-fat, sugar, and salt food sources because of their availability and price.
The preamble of the UN Charter reaffirms "faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women".
Rude remarks from patients or their family members can distract healthcare professionals and cause them to make mistakes during a medical procedure.
Regulatory capture is the co-opting of regulatory agencies by members of or the entire regulated industry.
Goosebumps The term is also attributed to piloerection or "goose bumps" that occurs with abrupt withdrawal from opioids, which resembles the skin of a plucked refrigerated turkey.
In the English language, black sheep is an idiom that describes a member of a group who is different from the rest, especially a family member who does not fit in.
Physiological density, also known as real population density, is defined as the number of people per unit area of arable land.
An awareness of their impact on the Earth, and connection to nature is essential members of the Landdyke Movement's way of life.
In his autobiography, Lincoln Steffens details how news reporting can be used to create the impression of a crime wave where there is none, in the chapter "I Make a Crime Wave".
Destruction of property (sometimes called property destruction, or criminal damage in England and Wales) is a sub-type of property damage that involves damage to property that results from willful misconduct and is punishable as a crime.
In the 1970s, as these movements grew in influence, green politics arose as a new philosophy which synthesized their goals.
It also unanimously adopted a declaration calling on the international community to fulfil an earlier pledge to cut the number of hungry people to about 400 million by 2015.
But, unless that research extends to countries characterized by poor, high-density populations, Global Food Security Index scores are likely to decrease in the coming years.
In order to fulfill its mandate, the commission is vested with a broad range of powers, from receiving complaints and instituting investigations on matters affecting personal data protection to compelling entities to abide by its orders in matters affecting data privacy.
In 2001, they reached an agreement to end reliance on nuclear power in Germany, and agreed to remain in coalition and support the German government of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder in the 2001 Afghan War.
Sandra Fluke was invited to present oral arguments on behalf of certain female student consumers dissatisfied with restrictions attached to registration for undergraduate and graduate attendance at Georgetown University School of Law.
After consultation with various private organizations, civil societies and a series of public hearings in Manila, Cebu and Davao, the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Data Privacy Act was signed on August 24, 2016.
The study concluded that habitat loss and degradation were the primary threats to endangered bird species, impacting at least 52% of them, while introduced species, including domestic cats, rats and mustelids, accounted for 6% of endangered birds.
A more recent adaptation of Warhol's quip, possibly prompted by the rise of online social networking, blogging, and internet celebrity, is the claim that "In the future, everyone will be famous to fifteen people" or, in some renditions, "On the Web, everyone will be famous to fifteen people".
One nurse took over his care, and he began to rapidly gain weight and his growth hormone levels increased during this time.
List of winners by year 2011 Boris Bulayev, president, and Eric Glustrom, executive director, Educate!
In September 2021, Brian Leung Kai-ping became HKDC executive director and Alex Chow Yong-kang became board chair.
However, there are global differences towards the debate; for example, in Canada and the United States there are no regulations, whereas in Switzerland the donor must be willing to be identified, and in France, anonymity is forced.
In the United Kingdom, BBC News reports have linked the phenomenon to broader issues of tenant protection and affordable housing shortages.
This can be considered a virtual counterpart of wearing a pin to display one's sympathies; however, acquiring such a pin often requires some monetary donation to the cause while changing profile picture does not.
This now includes every instance of being understood informationally, no matter whether physically implemented or not.
In the year 2018 also Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) became 70 years old which was celebrated in the prize ceremony.
Upward comparison is the idea that someone compares themselves to someone they feel is better than they are.
According to the AIA, inclusive locker rooms protect privacy by being "arranged in a shared, semi-public space" with a "mix of individual, private rooms" as well as "highly visible, non-gender-segregated multi-user spaces".
Key concepts Overconsumption The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Global Footprint Network have argued that the annual biocapacity of Earth has exceeded, as measured using the ecological footprint.
At the resulting trial at King's Lynn Crown Court, the prosecution argued that the charity was "almost a supermarket for heroin." It was established during the trial that Wyner and Brock were never present when the dealing was occurring.
Observer Magazine: Armchair Warrior Foreign Policy magazine: "The brave new world of slacktivism" Peña-López, I.
Since then, lawsuits for unfair dismissal have led to blacklisting being covert or informal, but it remains common.
Children's participation is a child's right to be heard in all matters affecting them, as defined by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Similarly, killing a child or adult may be permissible in exceptional circumstances such as self-defense or perhaps capital punishment, although these are irrelevant to standard abortions.
The sociological study of peace, war, and social conflict uses sociological theory and methods to analyze group conflicts, especially collective violence and alternative constructive nonviolent forms of conflict transformation.
The advantage is that it can be implemented non-intrusively by the service provider without any special software on the handset.
Abusers may also force their victims to obtain credit and then through negligent activities ruin their credit rating and ability to get credit.
The procedure is recommended to be undertaken under general anaesthesia; opponents' primary concerns revolve around post-operative pain.
Young states that these drivers of unconscious bias reflect the positions people hold about others that are influenced by past experiences, forming filters that cause conclusions to be reached about a group or ethnicity through methods other than active thought or reasoning.
Poland An experienced midwife working during the pandemic in a Polish hospital was fired after she published a report on Facebook on 18 March about the conditions of medical personnel and the hospital in relation to the pandemic.
The Ageless Linux project also builds hardware designed to provide computing devices resistant to age checks.
Green platforms generally favor tariffs on fossil fuels, restricting genetically modified organisms, and protections for ecoregions or communities.
It is estimated that if China developed to the level of the United States that world consumption rates would roughly double.
Concealing such personal information causes significant psychological distress, including intrusive thoughts about the secret, shame and guilt, anxiety, and isolation from other members of the minority group.
They advocate for a relational and empirical definition of animal resistance, focusing on actions that disrupt human control and provoke institutional responses, whether or not intent can be proven.
This harms their psycho-social well-being and self-systems, causing them to produce and reproduce stress-induced, disadvantageous behavioral responses that lead to the development of maladaptive habits.
Here, the notion of intention was seen as a way of limiting time spent on deliberating about what to do, by eliminating choices inconsistent with current intentions.
While sometimes presented as a consensual arrangement, the practice raises significant concerns regarding power imbalance and exploitation, particularly when involving individuals facing housing insecurity or economic hardship.
For example, one stakeholder described the difficulty getting patients who self-medicate to seek clinical help and treatment for psychosis.
With rising concerns by the Information Technology and Business Process Association of the Philippines (IBPAP) of an absence of a Data Privacy Law, Philippine Congress passed Senate Bill No.
3–20, ISBN 978-0-88738-881-1{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Bollen, Kenneth; Paxton, Pamela; Morishima, Rumi (June 2005).
Her suicide caused outrage across Taiwan over the inadequate legislation regarding animal euthanasia, as well as the issue of cyberbullying by netizens and the press.
Automatic information interchange and beneficial ownership registration were among the ranking criteria.
Political upheaval made its way into art in the country: film, music and literature were shaped by the ongoing changes both within the country, the Southern Hemisphere and the rest of the world.
Two complaints by the Rhodesian Ridgeback Club of Great Britain were upheld: the unfair representation of research on dermoid sinus in Ridgebacks and the club's action with regard to the issue, and the description of the ridge of the breed as a deformity and a form of spina bifida.
Scholars regard symbolic consumption as a social construct, with shared perceptions about a product's meaning conveyed through advertising, magazines, and television.
Malls featured in Bell's chronicles most notably include Owings Mills Mall, Bristol Mall, Burlington Center Mall, Marley Station Mall, Voorhees Town Center, Rolling Acres Mall, Frederick Towne Mall, and Staunton Mall.
In countries with limited arable land relative to their population, such as Egypt, physiological density is substantially higher than arithmetic density, reflecting concentrated population pressure on fertile areas.
Afghanistan On 20 September 2022, the slogan was chanted by Afghan women in a protest in support of women protesting in Iran.
"Unfair By Design: The War on Drugs, Race, and the Legitimacy of the Criminal Justice System" (PDF).
Martine-Anstett Award, or Martine-Anstett Human Rights Prize, is awarded every year on 29 April in Paris to the person, man or woman, strongly committed to the defense of human rights.
Indian women who supported the bill responded by noting that they were more educated as a whole then the Anglo-Indian women who opposed the bill, pointing out that more women in India had gained academic degrees than those living in the United Kingdom.
One such line of argument holds that sentience and individual welfare are less important to morality than the greater ecological good.
In addition to increased access, there has also an increased national focus on raising quality standards for Head Start and state-funded pre-K programs, and in improving training and professional development for early care providers.
The Department of Environmental Protection paved over the space around the hydrant in the morning on October 25, 2024.
The most frequently used methods dealing with natural monopolies are government regulations and public ownership.
These interpretations are sometimes contrasted with concepts such as white fragility, which focuses more narrowly on defensive responses rather than overt hostility.
Prognosis A review from 2000 stated that life expectancy was reduced because of a tendency to develop cancer relatively early as well as deaths due to infections related to immunodeficiency.
They have cortical atrophy (also known as degeneration) of the brain's outer layer, although it is usually found in older affected people.
During these interviews, he has repeatedly emphasized that young men and women should speak up about their experiences with sexual abuse to prevent themselves from becoming like him.
Aisbitt regularly played a comical character in stop motion animations that were broadcast on Irish national television.
Seckel syndrome, or microcephalic primordial dwarfism (also known as bird-headed dwarfism, Harper's syndrome, Virchow–Seckel dwarfism and bird-headed dwarf of Seckel) is an extremely rare congenital nanosomic disorder.
Additionally, Abomah performed with Reynold's Waxworks and Exhibition in 1900, 1903, and 1912–1913, and with Barnum and Bailey in 1918.
Joelison Fernandes da Silva (born 15 August 1985) is a Brazilian Sitting volleyball player and he has been recognized as the tallest man in Brazil, measuring 2.37 meters tall and weighing 169 kilograms.
On her 6th birthday she was measured at 5 feet 2 inches (157.48 centimetres) tall, an inch or two (2.5–5 cm) shorter than her mother.
Also, while giving people opportunity, they also highly edited photos of people to make their image not look like them anymore.
There is evidence for some features of premature aging including the early development of Barrett's esophagus, osteoporosis present in the teenage years, premature greying of hair and some changes to the skin of the face causing a more aged appearance compared to chronological age.
The Senate in Rome switched allegiance, gave both Gordian and Gordian II the title of Augustus, and set about rousing the provinces in support of the pair.
After a fall in Tampa, Florida in 1984, he returned to his birthplace Dalvík, where he died a few months later at the age of 71.
He was purported by some to be 2.67 m (8 ft 9 in) tall, but other sources claimed he was 2.46 m (8 ft 1 in) tall.
DNMT3A overgrowth mutations are hypothesized to interfere with the enzyme's role in H3K36me2-regulated non-CpG DNA methylation.
Choi was picked as a first reserve fighter against Ray Sefo at the 2008 K-1 Championship finals which he lost by unanimous decision.
Leonid Stadnyk, reported to be 2.57 m (8 ft 5 in) tall, briefly held the title, but was disqualified due to his refusal to be measured.
The term, however, has been found offensive by some because of the reference to the polydactyly, which is seen as a 'freakish' label.
When applied to skeletal dysplasias, mesomelic dwarfism describes generalised shortening of the forearms and lower legs.
Isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD) is a rare congenital disorder characterized by growth hormone deficiency and postnatal growth failure.
He obtained his ordinary National Diploma certificate from the University of Lagos and went further to get his Higher National Diploma certificate from the Lagos state Polytechnic.
Individuals who have type III may also be more susceptible to infections and have a compromised immune system.
In families with two affected parents, children who inherit both affected genes (for which there is a 25% chance) typically die before birth or in early infancy from breathing difficulties.
In adulthood, the average height for males with achondroplasia is 131 cm, while females typically measure 124 cm.
His height, 245.9 cm (8 ft 0.8 in) was based on an estimate: after a series of falls, his legs were badly injured, and they were amputated after gangrene set in.
His character was a well-mannered English bachelor who lived in the apartment next door to George and Louise Jefferson.
British historian Ronald Syme, writing that "the word 'Gothia' should have sufficed for condemnation" of the passage in the Historia Augusta, felt that the burden of evidence from Herodian, Syncellus and elsewhere pointed to Maximinus having been born in Moesia Superior or Moesia Inferior.
Presentation Parastremmatic dwarfism is apparent at birth, with affected infants usually being described as "stiff", or as "twisted dwarfs" when the skeletal deformities and appearance of dwarfism further present themselves.
The Belangenvereniging van Kleine Mensen (BVKM) (English: Interest Association of Little People) is the Dutch Patients' Organization for little people and patients with skeletal dysplasia.
Approximately half of individuals exhibit behavioral or psychiatric issues; the most common diagnosis is autism spectrum disorder.
"Poikiloderma consists of areas of increased and decreased pigmentation, prominent blood vessels, and thinning of the skin." Accelerated aging In humans, individuals with RTS, and carrying the RECQL4 germline mutation, can have several clinical features of accelerated aging.
The mission of the International Dwarf Fashion Show is "to reverse the discriminatory diktats of beauty and to give the opportunity to little people to express themselves by bringing an innovative perspective to the fashion industry.
During high school, he grew 10 inches (25 cm) in one year, a growth spurt later attributed to a pituitary tumor.
The campaign aims to challenge stereotypes, reduce stigma, and encourage understanding of the lived experiences of people with dwarfism.
In May 1857 the Emperor and Empress of Austria invited the towering native of Ireland to visit their kingdom.
Death Around Christmas 1945, Hatton suffered a series of heart attacks, a direct result of his acromegalic condition.
TET3 enzyme facilitates conversion of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), initiating active DNA demethylation, an epigenetic mechanism.
Struycken played Terak in the 1985 TV film Ewoks: The Battle for Endor, a spin-off to the original Star Wars trilogy.
Only 3 families from Germany and the United States worldwide have been described with the disorder, and they showed either X-linked or autosomal dominant inheritance.
He considered his size to be an advantage, for potential customers would often want to meet with him out of curiosity, and they always remembered him.
The cause of Zeng's gigantism was a tumor that caused her pituitary gland to overproduce human growth hormone.
In case of MGORS, these proteins usually lose their function, which impairs the rate of the cell cycle and causes growth restriction.
Roussimoff finally returned to action on 26 April 1991, in a six-man tag-team matchup when he teamed with The Rockers in a winning effort against Mr.
Childe of Hale Trail Speke Hall, near Hale, incorporates a woodland trail depicting his house, feet, hands and other items.
When the Mazices invaded Scetes in 395, John fled the Nitrian Desert and went to live on Mount Colzim, near the present city of Suez, where he died.
His parents are short, unlike his Tatar ancestor "of mountainous proportions", and Valuev had previously denied that his own size was due to medical issues such as gigantism complicated by acromegaly, instead arguing for it being a question of genetics.
Guinness World Records official said Balawing broke the record of Khagendra Thapa Magar of Nepal, who was 0.67 m (2 ft 2+1⁄3 in) tall.
Honours and legacy Drásal's name bears the prestigious and most difficult Czech cross-country cycling race named Bikemaraton Drásal, which takes place every year in Holešov.
During his appearances, he dressed in his everyday clothes and refused the circus's request that he wear a top hat and tails.
The fact that he could dribble the ball so well came about as a result of him playing point-guard in high school when he was still too short to play the center slot.
However, N'Diaye was not allowed to play the sport during his first year in the high school because of California Interscholastic Federation rules.
They were married by the Queen's wish; and the two together measured only 7 feet 2 inches (2.18 m) They had nine children, five of whom, who lived, were of ordinary stature.
This mutation in MED12 causes incorrect expression and activity of the protein it encodes, resulting in the disorder.
Because of this, many regarded Baba as the most honest promoter in the professional-wrestling business.
During an initial medical evaluation of shortness, the absence of disproportion and other clues listed above usually indicates causes other than bone dysplasias.
Also, through this line of, he looked after people like Robin Williams, some members of the Rolling Stones and other contemporary musicians and film stars.
In 2004, The Tribune reported him to be 2.51 m (8 ft 3 in) tall and still growing, being in his late teens.
According to his niece Lily Levi, "Not a chair was tall enough, not a bed was long enough, not a table was high enough." Like any celebrity, Porter had a love-hate relationship with the public attention.
The loss of these genes is responsible for some of the overall characteristics of Langer–Giedion syndrome.
The MAGIC Foundation (short for Major Aspects of Growth in Children) is an American non-profit organization which helps families of children diagnosed with a wide variety of different growth impacting medical conditions through education, networking, physician referrals and numerous other services.
Biography Siddiqa Parveen first became known in 2012 when India TV News reported her to be 8 ft 0 in (2.44 m) and 160 kilograms (350 lb).
Acromegaly distorted the shape of Hatton's head, face, and extremities in a gradual but consistent process.
References External links Jack Earle at IMDb Jack Earle at Find a Grave Jack Earle in archived footage from 1931 that proves his height in The British Pathé http://www.britishpathe.com/video/queer-and-quaint
Bruck syndrome has features of congenital contractures, bone fragility, recurring bone fractures, flexion joint and limb deformities, pterygia, short body height, and progressive kyphoscoliosis.
Alexander Alekseyevich Sizonenko (Ukrainian: Олександр Олексійович Сизоненко; Russian: Александр Алексеевич Сизоненко; 20 July 1959 – 5 January 2012) was a Soviet professional basketball player.
There are only 2 known families, from Dubai and Texas, in which the disease was passed from mother to daughter (Texas), and from a mother to her 2 sons (Dubai).
Sweden Court dwarfs are noted at the Swedish Royal Court from the mid 16th-century, when the female court dwarfs "Lilla Gunnel" ('Little Gunnel') and Fedossa from Russia were in service of Princess Sophia of Sweden.
The first to document the syndrome was Henry Silver, who first discovered it when describing two children who had many of the symptoms of Silver–Russell syndrome, specifically the asymmetry part of the symptoms; this was discovered in 1953.
He also went to the capital city Taipei where he met Lin Yü-chih, who is among the shortest living men in the world.
Career statistics College Personal life In October 2008, George had his right foot partly amputated due to a Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection.
Unsurprisingly, many of the features are similar to ataxia telangiectasia (AT) and this syndrome was sometimes termed AT-variant 1, as the protein mutated in AT, ATM, interacts with the MRE11/RAD50/NBS1 (MRN) complex.
However, modern Egyptologists admonish for caution, the ancient Egyptian did not differ between dwarfs and pygmies to discriminate them, they simply chose their activities according to their skills.
In the 1991 movie The Rocketeer, actor Tiny Ron Taylor, playing Nazi henchman Lothar, is made up with prosthetics to look like Hatton.
By November 1939, Wadlow was a Master Mason under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Illinois A.F.
Reliability of testing The standard test for growth hormone deficiency is the growth hormone stimulation test.
History MGORS was first described by Meier and colleagues in 1959, and later by Gorlin and colleagues in 1975.
In her later years, Allen used a wheelchair because her legs and back could no longer support her tall stature while standing.
Their services include public education and awareness, quarterly newsletters, national networking, an annual convention, disorder specific brochures, and a Kids Program.
They are recognized by Guinness World Records as the tallest living married couple with their combined height of 13 feet 10.72 inches (423.47 cm).
He worked as the Senior Passenger Handling Services Officer in the Customer Services department of the Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) as the national flag carrier.
In a shoot interview, Ken Patera recalled an occasion where Roussimoff was challenged by Dick Murdoch to a beer drinking contest.
She would use her great height to earn a living as a sideshow attraction, popularly known as "The Missouri Giantess." Early life and growth Ella Ewing was born in La Grange, Missouri, the only child of Benjamin F.
The "Generationswechsel" (Generational Change) project pursued a goal of future-oriented orientation in 2013.
MOPD II is listed as a rare disease by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Their diets should be restricted to smaller portions than that of a child who is not diagnosed with achondroplasia.
Bone resection is performed on patients who have no growth left and involves removing part of the bone.
He was awarded the title of shortest adult human ever recorded, after his height was measured in February 2012.
Although it is unknown how RECQL4 gene mutations produce RAPADILINO syndrome's specific symptoms, these changes may result in the accumulation of DNA errors and cell death.
There is uncertainty around what Gongor's occupation at the Bogd Khan's court was: accountant and keeper of the Bogd Khan's elephant, the Bogd Khan's bodyguard, or wrestler.
Scholars and historians evaluate Amenemope's humane doctrines as a public appeal against upcoming moral decay within Egyptian society.
Koehler wore shoes that were size 22, but he once stated that his most bothersome clothing problem was finding socks that fit him.
In 2017, he discovered osteomyelitis in the bone of one of his legs, and the only alternative to solve the problem was the amputation of the leg in 2021.
Management Abdominal wall defects are common in newborns with BWS and may require surgical treatment.
History In 2020, seven organizations representing individuals with achondroplasia and other skeletal dysplasias from various European countries decided to collaborate on an advocacy project.
The date honors the birthday of Billy Barty (1924–2000), actor and founder of Little People of America, who championed rights and representation for people with short stature.
Some sports organizations, like Hockey Canada, have committed to removing the word, recognizing that it might be considered offensive.
According to Bahnsen upon arriving at the school, N'Diaye "could barely get up and down the court more than a few times" due to his poor fitness after rehabilitation.
She lived in Barnum's American Museum in New York City, and on July 13, 1865, she nearly burned to death when the museum was destroyed by fire.
An initiative with the Vereinigung Kleinwüchsiger Menschen (VKM) achieved a nationwide ban on dwarf tossing in 1992.
Okayama was the only player from Japan drafted into the NBA until Rui Hachimura was selected in the 2019 NBA draft.
Personal life At age 20, he was diagnosed with acromegaly, which explains his tall height of 2.13 m (7 feet) and distinctive facial features.
Naseer Ahmad Soomro (Urdu: نصیر احمد سومرو; 1969 or 1970 – 17 March 2025), was at one point the tallest living Pakistani, standing at 2.36 m (7 ft 9 in).
He was allegedly 9 feet 3 inches (2.82 m) tall, and legend tells that he slept with his feet out of the window of his small house, and tales credit him with great strength.
References See also List of tallest people Robert Wadlow, the tallest man in recorded history Rumeysa Gelgi, the tallest woman alive (also from Turkey) Zeng Jinlian, the tallest woman in recorded history External links Dünyanın en uzun insanı bir Türk – NTV The Tallest Man in the world
He can also be seen in Blondie's video for their 2003 hit "Good Boys." Due to his extraordinary height and deep voice, he appeared on The Howard Stern Show beginning in December 1996.
Of these regions, Latin America and the Caribbean were on track to achieve global targets set with global initiatives such as United Nations Millennium Development Goals and World Health Assembly targets (see following section on global targets).
Sienna Bernal – world's rarest discordant twinning Afshin Esmaeil Ghaderzadeh - Iranian Kurdish internet celebrity, the current Guinness World Records holder of shortest living man since December 2022.
The exact cause of his death was not disclosed, although The Kathmandu Post reported that he had previously been suffering from pneumonia.
Holyfield Valuev's first title defense of his second reign as WBA Champion was against the 46-year-old, four-time heavyweight champion of the world, Evander Holyfield, on 20 December 2008.
While continuing to be the promotion's top star, Baba also put a focus on using foreign wrestlers, inviting the likes of Dory Funk, Bruiser Brody, Abdullah The Butcher and Stan Hansen to compete for All Japan from the very beginning.
Genetics Parastremmatic dwarfism is caused by a missense mutation (where one amino acid is replaced by another in a gene sequence) in the TRPV4 gene, located on the long arm of human chromosome 12, at 12q24.11.
Pianist and composer Sergei Rachmaninoff (1873–1943), noted for his hands that could comfortably stretch a 13th on the piano, was never diagnosed with acromegaly in his lifetime, but a medical article from 2006 suggests that he might have had it.
Clinical features also may include a short, upturned nose, a prominent forehead, and a flat nasal bridge.
He is known all over Mongolia, and also mentioned or pictured in some accounts of contemporary western travellers.
During his pro club career, Lauderdale also played in numerous other countries besides Greece and Bulgaria, including Venezuela, Cyprus, Saudi Arabia, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, China, Iraq, Lebanon, and the United Kingdom.
At the time of his funeral, he had shrunk several inches, due to kyphoscoliosis (curvature of the spine, a mixture of scoliosis and kyphosis).
After being awarded the title, he said he had always wished to travel to all parts of his country and the world.
Igor Vovkovinskiy (also known as Igor Ladan; September 18, 1982 – August 20, 2021) was a Ukrainian-American law student, actor and tallest living person in the United States, at 7 feet 8+1⁄3 inches (234.5 cm), briefly taking the record from George Bell.
He appeared in two movies, Bottoms Up (1974) and Milo Barus, der stärkste Mann der Welt and two television series, Monaco Franze and Am laufenden Band.
Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia-short limb-abnormal calcification syndrome is a rare genetic disorder which is characterized by osseous anomalies resulting in short stature and other afflictions.
BWS has been shown to specifically involve mutations in a defined region on the short arm of chromosome 11 referred to as 11p15.5, that leads to overactivity of the IGF-2 gene (growth factor) and/or no active copy of CDKN1C (inhibitor of cell proliferation gene).
Close monitoring of growth in the first few years is essential, as well as annual general health screening and tests listed below.
Diagnosis Robinow syndrome is suspected by clinical findings and family history and confirmed by typical ROR-2 biallelic pathogenic variants identified by molecular genetic testing.
The variants—which can be of various types like nonsense, missense or frameshift—disrupt the normal DNA demethylation process during early embryonic development and the formation of the nervous system.
Young, dwarf adults who have been associated with the association since childhood are increasingly involved in responsible positions.
One notable organization that is supporting people with Hallermann–Streiff syndrome is the Germany-based "Schattenkinder e.V".
Death On July 8, 2015, Keyes died at the Playa Del Rey Center in Los Angeles, California of complications of acromegaly at age 63.
Pathophysiology As an adult ages, it is normal for the pituitary to produce diminishing amounts of GH and many other hormones, particularly the sex steroids.
Pathophysiology This disorder results from mutations in the proximal tyrosine kinase domain of the FGFR3 gene.
These tests may include: X-rays and other imaging tests electrocardiography (EKG) echocardiography eye examination hearing tests cognitive function tests History The abnormalities common to CES were first cataloged in 1899, and described in association with a small marker chromosome in 1965.
The Spanish government gave plots of land for housing and agriculture to some of the settlers in the area, and used them as incentives to recruit soldiers.
After school he started working as a day laborer in his native village and then as a coachman in Bludov Chateau.
Between his early 20s to early 30s, he gained height at the average rate of 9.14 cm (3.16 in) per year.
Leri–Weill dyschondrosteosis is characterized by mesomelic short stature, with bowing of the radius more so than the ulna in the forearms and bowing of the tibia while sparing the fibula.
Society and culture One case was a child who was admitted to a hospital with an extremely low weight.
His health, however had worsened progressively and he died from a heart attack on March 15, 1994, at the age of 77, in Carolina, Puerto Rico.
His World War I draft registration card, dated August 29, 1918, lists his height as 8 feet (240 cm).
He was the tallest basketball player ever at 244.9 cm (8 ft 2⁄5 in) although he was only 239 cm (7 ft 10 in) when he played professional basketball.
Land degradation Southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa are regions where land degradation coincide with high poverty rates and childhood stunting.
For almost all of her playing career, she played for TTT Riga, which was part of Daugava Voluntary Sports Society.
In general, children with overgrowth syndromes are at increased risk of embryonic tumor development.
Berk–Tabatznik syndrome is a medical condition with an unknown cause that shows symptoms of short stature, congenital optic atrophy and brachytelephalangy.
Early surgery for cataracts may be recommended, however some studies have suggested that spontaneous resolution of cataracts occurs in up to 50% of untreated patients.
Marfanoid habitus LFS is clinically distinguished from other X-linked forms of intellectual disability by the accompanying presence of marfanoid habitus.
This progresses to joint stiffness later in life when osteochondromas begin to develop, typically between infancy and mid-childhood, which decreases mobility.
Diagnosis Bloom syndrome is diagnosed using any of three tests - the presence of quadriradial (Qr, a four-armed chromatid interchange) in cultured blood lymphocytes, and/or the elevated levels of sister chromatid exchange in cells of any type, and/or the mutation in the BLM gene.
References External links Ireland’s Tallest Man Out of the Ordinary Ep.03 - Shaun Asbitt Interview with Shaun Aisbitt, Tallest Man in Ireland - 13th February 2023 The Tallest Men in Ireland, 1990 Shaun Aisbitt - 7 feet 3 inches Stuff The British Stole, episode The Irish Giant
Carolina also unveiled a mural which states the following: "Carolina, Tierra de Gigantes" (Carolina, Land of Giants).
Editions 2013 World Dwarf Games Participating nations 16 Countries: Sports 16 sports: Kurling is a modified form of the original curling game, adapted so that it can be played indoors on any smooth, flat surface, like a sports hall, instead of on ice.
Earle claimed to be one of the world's tallest humans standing 8 ft 6.5 in (2.60m) however his actual height was only around 7 ft 6 in (229 cm).
College career George was academically ineligible for his first season with the UNC Asheville Bulldogs and missed his second season after he dislocated a knee during preseason.
Irwin Keyes (March 16, 1952 – July 8, 2015) was an American actor and comedian, best known for his recurring role as Hugo on The Jeffersons.
A common comorbidity of the metabolic myopathy McArdle disease (Glycogen storage disease type V) is hypothyroidism.
See also List of people with dwarfism Dwarfism List of the verified shortest people References External links Shortest Man of the World Chandra Bahadur Dangi Archived 11 August 2014 at the Wayback Machine
While the case of Sanakht has often appeared in the medical literature as a potential case of pituitary disease, no definitive consensus has existed for many years on whether it was acromegaly or gigantism.
He starred in track and football at Hillsborough High School and was voted Handsomest Boy in his class his senior year.
Siddiqa Parveen (1987 or 1988 – 14 August 2024) was an Indian woman listed by Guinness World Records as the tallest living woman.
Routh Goshen, born Arthur James Caley (1824 – February 12, 1889), was most commonly known as Colonel Routh Goshen or the Arabian Giant or the Palestine Giant.
Other syndromes with clinical features similar to Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome include RAD50 deficiency and Cernunnos/NHEJ deficiency.
The finding of aortic root dilation in both disorders suggests that a mutation in an unspecified connective tissue regulating gene may contribute to the etiology of LFS.
Julius Koch (1872 – 30 March 1902), also known as Le Géant Constantin ("Constantin the Giant"), was one of the tallest people ever.
International Dwarf Sports Federation The International Dwarf Sports Federation oversees the organization of the World Dwarf Games.
Research has also shown that introducing parents of children with achondroplasia to support and advocacy groups at the time of diagnosis can improve outcomes.
The giant couple became a touring sensation and eventually fell in love; they married on June 17, 1871, in St Martin-in-the-Fields in London.
Hồ Văn Trung (8 December 1984 – 2 November 2019) was one of only 29 known people in medical history to reach a height of 8 feet (244 cm) or more.
At birth, neonates exhibit rostral to caudal lengths, head circumferences, and birth weights that are typically below the third percentile.
He is known best for his YouTube and TikTok videos showcasing a variety of content, which includes his family, all of whom have dwarfism.
For over fifteen years Wilson was a stand-in for Wallace Beery, and he is the grandfather of actress Shauna Bloom.
Thyrogenous dwarfism, td In 1929 a type of dwarfism was described in different breeds of Rhode Island Red chickens.
Yodotaki (Japanese: 淀滝, born 1784) was an Edo period Japanese sideshow performer, described in secondary sources as a remarkably tall and powerful strongwoman performer in Edo (modern Tokyo).
When the Roman mob heard that the Senate had selected two men from the patrician class, men whom the ordinary people held in no great regard, they protested, showering the imperial cortège with sticks and stones.
When he was nine years old, his family moved to the Greater Los Angeles area, where Kiel graduated from Baldwin Park High School.
Some types are autosomic while others are sex-linked, but when poultry breeders make reference to 'dwarf chickens' they usually refer implicitly to sex-linked recessive dwarfism due to the recessive gene dw, located on the Z chromosome.
His sufferings during this latter captivity made him, he declared, grow, and in his thirtieth year, having been of the same height since he was nine, he steadily increased until he was 3 feet 9 inches (1.14 m).
He was owner and operator of Giant's Camp Lodge and Fish Camp, a television repair shop and a tourist trailer court.
Cornelia de Lange syndrome has a widely varied phenotype, meaning people with the syndrome have varied features and challenges.
Perhaps his best-known movie role from that period was that of Reverend Lindquist in Sydney Pollack's 1972 film Jeremiah Johnson, starring Robert Redford.
Signs and symptoms Babies diagnosed with type IA are shorter than average at birth, which is a clear sign of growth failure.
He was 28 inches [71 cm] tall and weighed twenty-three pounds [10 kg] and was perfect in every respect.
Mureșan co-authored two young adult fitness and health books: The Boy's Fitness Guide and The Girl's Fitness Guide.
References Stina Kajsa i Wilhelmina Stålberg, Anteckningar om svenska qvinnor (1864) Åke Lundgren Sápmis jättinna (The Lapland giantess) Mattias Olofssons performance om Stor-Stina Further reading Stor-Stina at Svenskt kvinnobiografiskt lexikon
Author Tessa Harris made him one of the main characters in her novel The Dead Shall Not Rest, which examines the beginnings of forensic science, anatomy and surgery.
Early life Pesi was born on November 3, 1980, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, at Magee-Women's Hospital.
Mechanism of action Vosoritide works by binding to a receptor (target) called natriuretic peptide receptor type B (NPR-B), which reduces the activity of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3).
Still's disease amyloidosis acromegaly Treatment As the causes of local gigantism are varied, treatment depends on the particular condition.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Greener was an international basketball player for the Great Britain team and was often at the Crystal Palace National Sports Centre.
The WDG have been featured in a number of episodes on the American television series Little People, Big World on TLC.
Today the Dutch language still remembers him with the slang term "Cajanus voeten", for unusually large feet.
Only one affected woman and her (also affected) three daughters have been described in medical literature.
In August 2013, Win Zaw Oo announced his decision to surgically remove the tumour which caused his drastic height of 233 centimetres (92 in).
For example, mutations in the PTPN11 gene are associated with an increased tendency for pulmonary stenosis or leukemia, while mutations in the SOS1 gene are linked to relatively normal development and stature compared to other NS cases.
Patrick Murphy (1834–1862) was an Irish giant, born in Killowen, County Down on 15th June 1834 of parents James Murphy and mother Peggy (née Cunningham), who exhibited himself as a means of income.
Differential diagnosis The differential diagnosis of macrodystrophia lipomatosa includes a wide array of disorders which result in various degrees and patterns of limb overgrowth especially those occurring in childhood and adolescence.
If she were to die without any heirs, Goshen wanted his estate to go to his sister, Margaret Caley Gelling of Rochester, New York.
Congenital Congenital causes include: Klippel–Trénaunay syndrome Maffucci syndrome macrodystrophia lipomatosa neurofibromatosis, lipoatrophic diabetes.
Prophylactic antibiotics are considered to prevent urinary tract infections as those with NBS often have congenital kidney malformations.
Say-Field-Coldwell syndrome is a very rare genetic disorder which consists of triphalangeal thumbs, brachydactyly, camptodactyly, regular dislocation of the patella and short stature.
Molecular genetic testing for growth hormone receptor gene mutations confirms the diagnosis of LS, but clinical evaluation may include laboratory analysis of basal GH, IGF-1 and IGFBP levels, GH stimulation testing, and/or GH trial therapy.
There, at the London Pavilion, he performed on the same bill as the juggler Paul Cinquevalli, Katsnoshin Awata also a juggler, and the three acrobat troupes Craggs, Schäffers and Wartenburgs.
Jane Bunford (26 July 1895 – 1 April 1922) was a woman who was the tallest person ever from the United Kingdom measuring 2.41 metres (7 ft 11 in) at the time of her death (adjusted for spinal curvature).
Genetics In most of the patients analyzed, researchers identified missense de novo mutations in a set of genes.
Returning to the backbenches, he continued to mark himself as traditional rightwing Conservative, opposing tax increases and supporting capital punishment.
It lasted less than a year, and collapsed on 16 January 2017 following the resignation of deputy First Minister McGuinness in protest at the Renewable Heat Incentive scandal.
In a by-election in November 1945 he became MP for Kensington South, which he held until February 1950.
He was a former chairman of the Welsh Grand Committee and Member of the Speaker's Panel of Chairmen.
List of ministers Prime Minister and Cabinet Office Departments of state Law officers Parliament Departures from the Truss ministry There were resignations from the Truss ministry after forming a government on 6 September 2022.
Sturgeon, who had been Deputy First Minister under Salmond, was elected to succeed him by the SNP majority in the Scottish Parliament on 19 November 2014, before being officially sworn in in front of senior judges at the Court of Session the next day.
This resulted in a government crisis, where Yousaf faced the threat of a vote of no confidence now that the SNP was leading a minority government.
References Times Guide to the House of Commons, 1950, 1966 & 1979 Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs Independent obituary External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Nigel Fisher
39) (which provided subsidies for slum clearance) and the London Transport Bill 1931 — this was passed by a subsequent National government as the London Passenger Transport Act 1933 (23 & 24 Geo.
William Shepherd Morrison swaps the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for the Postmaster General with George Tryon and is succeeded as Minister of Food by Lord Woolton.
Noel-Baker had suggested to Blum that it would be best to send an admiral to London to win Chatfield over to opposing Axis intervention in Spain, which in turn might win Baldwin over as Chatfield had much influence with Baldwin on defence and foreign policies.
After Nottingham's resignation in 1704, Godolphin and Marlborough turned for support to the "Country" Whigs, led by Speaker Robert Harley.
A young William Ewart Gladstone held office as a Junior Lord of the Treasury, his first governmental post in a ministerial career that would span for the next sixty years.
Among his appointments was the former Welsh Liberal Democrat leader Kirsty Williams, who became Minister for Education.
The interest on advances to co-operative credit societies formed under the Agricultural Credits Act 1923 passed by the previous Conservative government was reduced to 4%.
Background and education Born in London as Frederick William Lawrence, he was the son of wealthy Unitarians who were members of the Liberal Party.
A strong chain of regional offices was set up within its planning ministry to provide a strong lead in regional development policies.
MP for Birmingham Yardley Evans was first elected to Parliament in the 1964 general election for the constituency of Birmingham Yardley.
In 1952, he was elected Member of Parliament in a by-election for Dundee East, where he served until his resignation in 1972.
Gordon Thomas Calthrop Campbell, Baron Campbell of Croy, (8 June 1921 – 26 April 2005) was a British Conservative politician and diplomat.
On November 21, 1902, Dunsmuir submitted his resignation to Lieutenant Governor Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière and recommended Edward Gawler Prior as his successor.
With the support of the Greens, Salmond was elected by the Scottish Parliament as First Minister on 16 May 2007, and was sworn in the following day after receiving the Royal Warrant from the Queen and taking the official oath of allegiance before judges at the Court of Session.
The Dunsmuir ministry was the combined Cabinet that governed British Columbia from June 15, 1900, to November 21, 1902.
This article details the first Thatcher ministry which she led at the invitation of Queen Elizabeth II from 1979 to 1983.
In 1923 Amwell was elected to the House of Commons as Member of Parliament (MP) for Islington West, a seat he held until 1931 and again from 1935 to 1947, and served under Ramsay MacDonald as Under-Secretary of State for Air from 1927 to 1931.
Law was again elected as an MP in the election of 1951, this time for Haltemprice, but he resigned this seat in January 1954 and in February was elevated to the House of Lords as Baron Coleraine of Haltemprice in the East Riding of the County of York.
Johnson inherited a minority government, supported by a confidence and supply agreement with the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland.
List of ministers See also Executive Council of Alberta List of Alberta provincial ministers References Works cited Further reading Alberta.
In 1926, during the General Strike, he became editor of the ILP's Socialist Review and of The Miner.
As chairman of the Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA) from 1981 to 1988 he oversaw the introduction of Channel 4 and TV-am.
Since King George II died in 1760, the ministry had been under pressure by the accession of George III, who disliked both Pitt and Newcastle and favoured John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute.
The first devolved executive of Scotland, it consisted of Scottish Labour and the Scottish Liberal Democrats, who formed a coalition on 14 May 1999.
Two weeks later, on October 4, Brown resigned from cabinet, and Prentice regained the portfolios while also remaining minister of finance and agriculture.
He served as Minister of Housing and Local Government from 1969 until the 1970 general election the following year.
Foreign policy Many historians have argued that the first Labour Government's most notable achievements were in foreign affairs, of which Ramsay MacDonald had devoted much time and effort, having taken the posts of both Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary.
Johnson increased the number of ministers attending the Cabinet to 33, four more than had attended the May Cabinet.
He served as Minister of National Insurance and then as Minister of Pensions and National Insurance from 1951 to 1955.
King William IV had dismissed the Whig government of Lord Melbourne on 14 November 1834 and asked Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, to form a government but he declined, instead recommending Sir Robert Peel.
Jeremy Hunt, Alun Cairns, and David Mundell retained the posts of health secretary, Welsh secretary, and Scottish secretary, respectively, which they had held during the second Cameron ministry.
External links John Strachey Archive at marxists.org Reg Groves 'John Strachey', International Socialism, 62 (1973).
However, he was later demoted to Lord Lieutenant of Ireland when he was outmanoeuvred by his rival Whigs, who formed the first Stanhope-Sunderland ministry.
In the Douglas-Home ministry, Rab Butler became Foreign Secretary, and Henry Brooke replaced Butler as Home Secretary.
From 1945 to 1947 he was Secretary of State for India and Burma, with a seat in the cabinet, and was involved in the negotiations that led to India's independence in 1947.
This is a list of the principal holders of government office during the second premiership of the Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham for four months in 1782.
Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities
When this led to an attempt to replace the conciliatory Southern Secretary, Lord Shelburne, Chatham finally roused himself enough to resign from his position as Lord Privy Seal, leaving Grafton as the nominal as well as real head of a ministry in which the Bedford faction was now stronger than ever.
Other changes included Lord Caldecote replacing Lord Maugham as Lord Chancellor, Sir John Anderson replacing Sir Samuel Hoare as Home Secretary (Hoare became Lord Privy Seal with a wide-ranging brief) and the return of Anthony Eden to the government as Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs.
It was headed by William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland, who became Prime Minister on 2 April 1783.
History Peel came to power for a second time after the Conservative victory in the General Election caused the Whig government of Lord Melbourne to resign.
It was led by the two Pelham brothers in Parliament, Prime Minister Henry Pelham in the House of Commons and Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle in the House of Lords.
References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by John Mackie
After several scandals including allegations of the sale of honours, the Conservatives withdrew their support after a meeting at the Carlton Club in 1922, and Bonar Law formed a government.
Though the government had little impact, it attracted derision through its plethora of new political names, which demonstrated the relative inexperience of the party.
He served as a Government Whip, 1961–62; Lord Commissioner of the Treasury and Scottish Whip, 1962–63; Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland, 1963–64.
Cabinets Wilson ministry Callaghan ministry Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
Matthew Prior who had played an important part in the negotiating the Utrecht treaty was also imprisoned.
Political career Early in 1955, Morgan was adopted as Plaid Cymru candidate for the Wrexham constituency and contested the seat at the by-election in 1955, and at the general elections in 1955 and in 1959.
This resulted in the Green Party's two Ministers Patrick Harvie and Lorna Slater leaving government and their respective posts of Minister for Zero Carbon Buildings, Active Travel and Tenants' Rights and Minister for Green Skills, Circular Economy and Biodiversity being abolished.
On the Duke of York's succession as King James II in February 1685, Rochester returned as Lord High Treasurer.
Elizabeth Kempster was employed as their housekeeper in 1945 following an interview at Lincoln's Inn, and worked at their home, Fourways, in Surrey, where Sylvia Pankhurst was a frequent visitor.
23): Although the nominal leadership of the regency lay with John, Duke of Bedford (Gloucester's older brother), he spent most of his time ruling the English territories in France.
In the second Labour Government of 1929–31 Ramsay MacDonald appointed him Financial Secretary to the War Office (1929–30); Cowling says that MacDonald believed he had rescued Shinwell's ministerial career when no minister would take him.
His youngest brother, Roger Cuthbert Wakefield, was an early British & Irish Lion, touring on the 1927 British Lions tour to Argentina.
He continued his print career in Fleet Street, where he worked on publications including John Bull, Everybody's Weekly, London Illustrated, News Review, Today, Education, The Daily Mirror and the News Chronicle.
In a break from the previous non-partisan governments, it was the first to be composed on party lines, and consisted of members of the Conservative Party.
He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Royal Television Society, and a patron of Sustrans.
Personal life On 26 January 1929, Lord Coleraine (when still Richard Law) married Mary Virginia Nellis, the second daughter of Abraham Fox Nellis, of Rochester, New York.
He resigned from the House of Commons in 1962, when he was appointed as Commissioner for Malta, 1962–64, becoming High Commissioner 1964–1965.
Safe for Democracy: The Anglo-American Response to Revolution, 1913-1923 (1987) diplomatic history Grieves, Keith.
It refers to the fact that, for perhaps the first time in English history, effective power in a royal council was shared by a group of men, a cabal, rather than dominated by a single "favourite".
The Aberdare constituency was abolished in 1983, but Evans was elected for the new Cynon Valley constituency which had very similar boundaries to the previous seat.
Jack Straw became the first MP Justice Secretary and Lord Chancellor, declaring it a new Great Office of State.
Following his untimely death on 10 February 1984, Evans's funeral service was held at St Elvan's Church, Aberdare.
He was a member of the Detection Club, and contributed to their 2020 anthology Howdunit: A Masterclass in Crime Writing by Members of the Detection Club.
The Cabinet set a new record for ethnic minority representation, with four secretaries of state and two additional ministers coming from minority backgrounds; 17% of the Cabinet were from BAME backgrounds, compared to 14% of the UK population.
Granville's successor as Paymaster-General is not in the Cabinet February 1852: Fox Maule succeeds Sir John Cam Hobhouse as President of the Board of Control.
2012 to 2013 In September 2012, Salmond made a snap reshuffle in light of the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.
The ministry successfully prosecuted Robert Walpole over charges of profiteering and had him imprisoned in the Tower of London for a period.
The Cabinet Robert Walpole served as both First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer between 1715 and 1717.
The proposal did not pass, but caused tensions within the coalition which contained both proponents and opponents of political reform.
Long standing ministers such as Shona Robison and Angela Constance announced their resignation due to personal circumstances, with Keith Brown resigning to take his role as SNP Depute Leader.
The National Liberals and Conservatives merged at constituency level in 1947 and fully assimilated in 1968.
Following the 2 March 2017 elections to the sixth Northern Ireland Assembly, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
The ministry was replaced by the Watson ministry on 27 April 1904 after the Labour Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
He was instrumental in establishing Royal Ordnance Factories at Robertstown and Rhigos during World War II as well as the new Hirwaun Trading Estate in 1945.
Richard's brother Charlie, a lieutenant in the King's Own Scottish Borderers, was killed at the Second Battle of Gaza in April 1917, followed by brother James, a captain in the Royal Fusiliers, who was shot down and killed on 21 September 1917.
Cabinet appointments McConnell announced his second government on 20 May 2003 and promised to "restore public confidence in devolution" with a pledge to tackle issues including youth crime and anti-social behaviour within communities.
In 1954, the National Liberal MP for Harwich, Sir Stanley Holmes was elevated to the peerage as Baron Dovercourt, and Ridsdale was selected as 'Conservative and Liberal' candidate to contest the consequent by-election.
Political career Denham served as a House of Lords whip from 1961 until 1964, under both Harold Macmillan and Alec Douglas-Home.
He was co-chair of the socialist Zionist Poale Zion (Great Britain), but was critical of Israeli policy (e.g.
The new party swiftly formed an alliance with the Liberals with a view to forming a coalition government at the next election.
He was a Member of Parliament for 23 years, from 1964 to 1987, for Willesden East and later Brent East, with 14 years on the front bench.
Florence Horsbrugh became the first woman to hold a Cabinet post in a Conservative government when she was appointed Minister of Education in 1951.
Soon after, Chatham managed to largely alienate the heretofore cautiously friendly Rockingham faction by dismissing their ally Lord Edgcumbe, the Treasurer of the Household.
Dafydd Elystan Elystan-Morgan, Baron Elystan-Morgan (7 December 1932 – 7 July 2021), known as Elystan Morgan, was a Welsh politician.
Later parliamentary career Following his electoral defeat, Evans became Director of the International Defence and Aid Fund.
Ministry See also 1734 British general election 1741 British general election 1742 vote of no confidence in the Walpole ministry Notes References == Further reading ==
Yvette Cooper moved to be Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs, replacing David Lammy.
List of ministers Prime Minister and Cabinet Office Departments of state Law officers Parliament 2023 August mini-reshuffle On 31 August 2023, Sunak carried out a mini-reshuffle.
1909 shuffle The Rutherford led Liberals gained a strong mandate in the March 1909 election and continued to form government.
Only four members of the Cabinet (Derby himself, St Leonards, Lonsdale, and Herries) were existing Privy Councillors and many others were complete political unknowns.
During his time as Commonwealth Secretary he had responsibility for trying to reach a settlement of the Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) question and for implementing sanctions against the regime there.
Gay rights Morgan is recorded as having voted against the partial decriminalisation of homosexuality in 1967, although in 1982 he claimed that he had actually abstained.
Early life Son of naval officer Sir Thomas Fisher and Aimée Constance, daughter of Walter Loveridge, of Oaken, Staffordshire, Fisher was educated at Eton College and Trinity College, Cambridge.
Prior was dismissed as premier by Lieutenant Governor Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière over a conflict of interest scandal that implicated several ministers, including Prior.
He returned to DC Thomson in 1946, but left the firm after clashing with them over his right to join a trade union.
Alistair Darling replaced Brown as Chancellor of the Exchequer while his portfolio at Trade and Industry was renamed Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform and given to John Hutton.
Upon the Conservatives return to power at the 1970 general election, he was once again made a whip under Edward Heath.
He fought in the Second World War with the Royal Artillery from 1940, winning the Military Cross and Bar.
His Chancellor of the Exchequer, Benjamin Disraeli, was instrumental in passing the Second Reform Act in 1867.
Education The Attlee government ensured provisions of the Education Act 1944 were fully implemented, with free secondary education becoming a right for the first time.
After retiring from the House of Commons at the 1955 general election, he was raised to the peerage as Baron Clitheroe, of Downham in the County Palatine of Lancaster, on 21 June 1955.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
Ifor Davies (9 June 1910 – 6 June 1982), born Ivor Davies, was a Welsh Labour politician who was the MP for Gower from 1959 until his death.
First Minister Humza Yousaf formed a SNP minority government, and faced separate motions of no confidence from Labour and the Conservatives, following the Greens withdrawing support.
Cabinet May 1999 to October 2000 Changes Lord Hardie unexpectedly resigned from his post as Lord Advocate on 17 February 2000.
The ministry finally collapsed in 1710 when Queen Anne turned to Harley and the Tories, dismissing Godolphin and the Junto Whigs, and, soon after, Marlborough himself.
5 July 2022 – 6 September 2022 Changes Sajid Javid resigned as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on 5 July.
In October 1768, the Bedfords persuaded Grafton that it would be necessary to remove Shelburne from the ministry.
He served as Secretary of State for the Colonies between 1945 and 1946 and as First Lord of the Admiralty between 1946 and 1951.
Shona Robison resigned as Deputy First Minister on 8 May in favour of Kate Forbes, but was re-appointed as Swinney's Finance Secretary with additional responsibility for local government.
The second Broad Bottom administration lasted from Pelham's resumption of power until his death in 1754.
Following a series of close votes and much criticism of the weakness of the Assembly administration, Labour and the Liberal Democrats formed a coalition in October 2000 with the two parties sharing power, including ministerial appointments, with Labour the majority party.
The Conservatives had been weakened by the defection of the Peelites, and many of the new Cabinet ministers were men of little experience.
As the name of the ministry would suggest, Lord Clarendon (earlier Lord Hyde) was, in effect, the leader of the government.
Unlike all previous Ministries, it consisted almost entirely of men who had immigrated to Western Australia in the previous two decades.
The Liberal Nationals had previously not held office in MacDonald's previous National Government, though two junior ministers appointed as Liberals had defected to them.
It was believed that the Government Equalities Office would become its own department headed by an Equalities Secretary; however, it was not given Secretary of State status.
Among the most influential members of the first Newcastle ministry was Henry Fox, who served as Leader of the House of Commons from November 1755, having initially entered the Cabinet in his earlier position of Secretary at War in December 1754.
On oil in 1972 Campbell was against any move to pump oil revenues directly into the Scottish economy despite Heath asking government departments to explore such an arrangements to help revive Scotland's economy with "its own resources".
Richard Kidston Law, 1st Baron Coleraine (27 February 1901 – 15 November 1980), was a British Conservative politician.
As a National Government it was a coalition of members of the Conservative Party, Liberal Nationals and National Labour, as well as a number of individuals who belonged to no political party.
During the 1930s, with the Labour Party numbers in the Commons severely depleted after the 1931 General Election, Hall began to speak on a broader range of subjects having previously focused mainly on issues relating to his mining background.
At the Labour Party Conference at Scarborough that autumn, he lost his place as an elected constituency representative on the Labour Party National Executive Committee (NEC), the members of which were increasingly elected by Bevanites in the constituency parties.
Evans feared that devolution would lead to the centralization of local government authority in Cardiff, as well as the appointment of an additional 1300 civil servants.
There was widespread media and public debate as to whether the Labour Party could ever win a general election again, as they had failed to do so in 1992, despite the Conservative government having been in power for over a decade and presiding over a recession for the second time.
Law argued: To turn our backs on Utopia, to see it for the sham and the delusion that it is, is the beginning of hope.
On 15 November 1945, shortly after he had been re-elected at the 1945 general election, he was ennobled as Baron Morrison, of Tottenham in the County of Middlesex.
Chatfield had a marked pro-Nationalist bias, once writing that the Spanish Nationalist cause was "a much nobler cause than the Reds".
He was replaced by Steve Barclay, the former Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, who is in turn replaced by Kit Malthouse, former Home Office minister as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
With the passage of the House of Lords Act 1999, Denham and almost all other hereditary peers lost their automatic right to sit in the House of Lords.
Attribution: This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
Cabinet January 1828 – November 1830 Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
The influential Joseph Chamberlain was appointed President of the Local Government Board while future party leader and Prime Minister Henry Campbell-Bannerman was made Secretary of State for War.
She also appointed Vikki Howells as Minister for Further and Higher Education, and added Culture and Skills to Jack Sargeant's portfolios, alongside Social Partnership.
Sunderland, who served variously as Northern Secretary and Southern Secretary, and additionally as Lord President of the Council from 1685, remained in post until his dismissal by James II in October 1688, when he fled to Rotterdam.
The King disliked Pitt, but Pitt's influence in the Commons had led to his crucial appointment as Southern Secretary in a ministry nominally headed by Devonshire.
The most prominent policy of the National Government in the early 1930s was the proposal to introduce Indian Home Rule, a measure fiercely opposed by the Diehard wing of the Conservative party, with Winston Churchill one of the most open opponents.
Political career Disciple of Oswald Mosley In 1923 Strachey began writing for the Independent Labour Party (ILP) publication New Leader.
January 2001 – Peter Mandelson is dismissed as Northern Ireland Secretary and is succeeded by John Reid.
The Watson ministry (Labour) was the 3rd ministry of the Government of Australia, and the first national Labour government formed in the world.
The correspondence file relating to the Shinwell portrait bust is held as part of the Thornhill Papers (2006:56) in the archive of the Henry Moore Foundation's Henry Moore Institute in Leeds and the terracotta remains in the collection of the artist.
Eventually, Evans was one of six Labour MPs to oppose devolution in the referendum of 1979, when the government proposals were heavily defeated.
John Elvidge stood down as the Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government in June 2010 and was succeeded by Peter Housden.
A significant industrial expansion took place, such as in the metal trades, in printing, in the clothing and processing industries, and in new industries such as electrical supply, fibrous-plaster works, and wire-marking.
As no separate Chancellor of the Exchequer had been appointed, Denman held the post pro tempore by virtue of being Lord Chief Justice.
The Fourth Executive was, under the terms of the Northern Ireland Act 1998, a power-sharing coalition.
Coal pits, steel plants, machine-tools and shipyards were particularly hard hit, most of all in Scotland, Northern Ireland and the north of England.
Theresa May formed the first May ministry in the United Kingdom on 13 July 2016, after having been invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government.
As commissioners sent by the French Republic to Saint-Domingue had abolished slavery, an institution legal in areas of the colony under British occupation, most of Saint-Domingue's Black inhabitants rallied to the Republican cause.
The final suspension came on 14 October 2002 after the Stormontgate controversy surrounding an alleged Provisional Irish Republican Army spy ring based in Stormont.
He was able to retain his seat at the 1983 general election, but was deselected in 1985 after a bitter struggle, described as "political 'murder'" in his Guardian obituary, and replaced as Labour candidate in Brent East by Ken Livingstone at the 1987 general election.
Unemployment remained low and the economy remained strong with more than a decade of unbroken growth, and education and healthcare had changed for the better as a result of expenditure by Labour.
348), Leake and his supporters set about "the best organised campaigning the state had ever witnessed" for the by-elections, and three of the ministers—Frank Wilson, Matthew Moss and Frederick Moorhead were defeated.
A number of other improvements were introduced in 1977, with Attendance Allowances extended to cover disabled foster children and non-contributory disablement pensions extended to married women whose invalidity prevented them from carrying out their household tasks.
Until 1717, he held the position of Northern Secretary and was the de facto leader of the Whig administration.
It succeeded the James Ministry on 10 August 1904 after the 1904 election boosted Labor's seat count from 8 to 22 in the 50-seat Legislative Assembly.
Yousaf later confirmed that Johnston Carmichael had resigned around October 2022 but he was unaware of this until after winning the leadership campaign.
The Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government attends all meetings of the cabinet in their capacity as the principal advisor on government policy to the first minister and secretary to the Scottish cabinet.
Chatfield was less interested in having the Marine join the proposed war than the offer that the British Mediterranean fleet could use the bases at Toulon and Bizerta for docking and repairs.
Sir Vince Cable, the former Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, also told news outlets on 19 April 2017 that the Liberal Democrats would not enter into a coalition with Labour.
MacDonald summed up what he regarded as the achievements of the conference, in a speech before the signing ceremony: We have stopped the replacement of battleships and reduced their numbers.
The premiership was trapped between these two paradigms as the 'old world' started to fail and the 'new world' lacked intellectual credibility and political backing.
Personal life He married Nicola Madan, daughter of Geoffrey Spencer Madan and his wife Marjorie Noble, and had three children.
He remained in power until 1756 when his government collapsed following the fall of Minorca and the fierce criticism that he had come under for his handling of the Seven Years' War that was engulfing Europe.
A deacon in the Presbyterian Church of Wales at Capel-y-Garn in Pen-y-garn, he was making the point that God did not need the protection of the law.
Leake advised the Governor to dissolve Parliament, but the request was declined and on 12 November, Leake advised the Legislative Assembly that as soon as the Supply Bill had passed a third reading, his government would resign.
At first, Leader of the Opposition Frederick Henry Piesse was asked to form a Ministry, but on 18 November he advised that he had been unable to form an acceptable Ministry, and Alf Morgans was sent for.
Billy Hughes, who died in 1952, was the last surviving member of the First Fisher ministry; Hughes was also the last surviving member of the Watson ministry, Third Fisher ministry, Second Hughes ministry and Third Hughes ministry.
Between 1757 and 1762, at the height of the Seven Years' War, the Pitt–Newcastle ministry governed the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Pitt, who moved to the House of Lords as Earl of Chatham upon his accession to the ministry, was determined to form a ministry of "measures, not men" that would give office to the most competent men without regard to faction.
The response of opinion in the country, evidenced by petitions, resolutions of borough corporations and the actions of the London mobs, showed strong opposition to the coalition and support for Pitt.
Jones maintained the existing One Wales coalition agreement with Plaid Cymru, established by Morgan.
House of Commons Elected to Parliament in 1959, he served as Member of Parliament for the constituency of Moray and Nairn until February 1974 when he was defeated by Winnie Ewing of the Scottish National Party.
After the collapse of Lord Derby's minority government, the Whigs and Peelites formed a coalition under the Peelite leader George Hamilton-Gordon, 4th Earl of Aberdeen.
He was briefly succeeded by Frederick Pethick-Lawrence, and then by Arthur Greenwood, who had left the war cabinet, from 22 February 1942 until 23 May 1945.
Rhodri Morgan was named as Acting First Secretary on 9 February and confirmed as the permanent First Secretary on 15 February 2000.
Arms References External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Richard Law Newspaper clippings about Richard Law, 1st Baron Coleraine in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
Many families from Birmingham also moved several miles to the south of the city to the expanding Worcestershire town of Redditch.
Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon took the leadership unopposed at the SNP's annual conference on 14 November 2014.
History With the country remaining at war, Grenville aimed to form the strongest possible government and so included most leading politicians from almost all groupings, although some followers of the younger Pitt, led by George Canning, refused to join.
Canning's government was therefore recruited from the moderate wing of the Tory Party, known as the Canningites, with the support of several members of the Whig Party.
Griffifths replaced Jane Hutt in the Social Justice portfolio, and Hutt assumed Griffifths' former position as Trefnydd of the Senedd, with Hutt also keeping her position as Chief Whip.
The Prime Minister, Tony Blair, who turned 44 years old days after leading Labour to victory, was the youngest prime minister of the twentieth century.
The second Deakin ministry succeeded the Reid ministry, which dissolved on 5 July 1905 following the resignation of George Reid after the Protectionists withdrew their support and gained support from the Labour Party.
On 16 May 2007, a few hours after Salmond was sworn in by parliament, he announced his intention to form a government composed of five cabinet secretaries and ten junior ministers.
Given that it was not considered appropriate for a prime minister to be a member of the House of Lords, Alec Douglas-Home and Lord Hailsham both disclaimed their peerages under the Peerage Act 1963, and became known respectively as Sir Alec Douglas-Home and Quintin Hogg.
Chief minister is a term used retroactively by historians to describe servants of the English monarch who presided over the government of England, and after 1707, Great Britain, before 1721.
The Irish Church The principal issue of the 1868 parliamentary session was the Irish question, manifested this time in the debate over the Anglican Church of Ireland.
More claimed that Somervell threatened to shoot him and the gun went off during a subsequent struggle, while Somervell claimed that More "rushed" him after noticing the gun in his pocket and it was then discharged during the struggle.
On August 6, Woodburn announced he would resign as the minority leader but would remain as a senator.
New Jack claimed that the two met prior to the match and agreed to use a "piece of metal" to inflict injury.
Robertson appeared as Spanky in a revival of John Byrne's Slab Boys trilogy, and as Romeo in Romeo and Juliet at the Citizens' Theatre.
Many news reports said he refused to refer to the Conservative congregation as a "synagogue" since it is non-Orthodox.
He used his newspaper, the Independent Monitor, to lambast Republicans during the Reconstruction era as carpetbaggers, scalawags, and freed blacks, and attacked fellow legislator Shandy Jones and others with a cartoon of them being lynched.
He was later investigated by the FBI, which discovered no links to terrorism or any violation of laws occurring during the Alaska incident.
He claimed that he was incarcerated for 42 days in Mangalore before being released on conditional bail by Karnataka High Court Justice Ashok B.
When the trial began in July 2012, Terry entered a not guilty plea and was acquitted of the charge on 13 July 2012.
Method The practice of using the handgun itself as a blunt-force weapon began with the appearance of muzzle loaders in the 15th century.
A McDonald's employee, Vernon Hackett, filmed the beating and the attempts of another employee and a customer to intervene in the attack.
Lewis on December 13, 1982, at the New York Public Library, after identifying him as the author of the Tylenol extortion letter.
New York City councilman Charles Barron stated that the root of the problem was a need for jobs to keep young people out of trouble; he also suggested additional funding for community patrols to act as lookouts.
Activism In August 2006, Giggs became an ambassador for UNICEF UK, in recognition for his work with Manchester United's 'United for UNICEF' partnership with the children's organisation.
Etika was later found dead that same day by the New York Police Department, his death was ruled a suicide-by-drowning.
The word 'psychic' is used to denote the fact that the actus reus of the offence that is correctly described as assault consists of affecting the mind of the other person (whereas battery consists of the application of force).
Career 2016–2018: Modelling and early roles Ward began his career while he was at college when he signed with the talent agency.
The incident was first made public in 2021, and initial reports in 2019 said Vizquel and the White Sox parted amicably.
Mahendra Kumar (died 25 April 2020) was the convener of the Karnataka, India, branch of the Bajrang Dal, an Indian Hindu youth organisation.
Personal life, health issues and death From 2009 to 2011, Young was in a relationship with Terri Runnels; after the relationship ended, Runnels filed a lawsuit against Young for libel and to block distribution of sexually explicit photos he had of Runnels.
2019–2022: Top Boy and other work Ward's breakout year came in 2019, when he starred as Jamie in Netflix's revival and third series of Top Boy.
Between 1887 and 1930, Bowlby served in a number of nobility positions, likely stopping when he did due to lawsuit filed against him which accused him of three counts of assaulting a minor, for which he was later acquitted.
In that case, the plaintiff told the defendant (while putting his hand on his sword) that he would not stab him, because the circuit judge was visiting town for the local assizes.
However, after this his performances dropped off and assistant manager Mark Bowen advised Nzonzi to stop his 'theatrical sulks'.
In his defence, Ferdinand said he had feared he was going to be robbed of his £64,000 watch and was defending himself.
Do not deceive yourself because you encountered a people with no knowledge of war and got the better of them; for by God if we fight you, you will find that we are real men!
Not bad." World Class Championship Wrestling (1984–1985) The Midnight Express with Cornette had a short stay in World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW) in Texas where they feuded mainly with The Fantastics (Bobby Fulton and Tommy Rogers).
Esteban Santiago-Ruiz, who flew in to the airport from Alaska and committed the shooting with a Walther PPS 9mm semi-automatic pistol, was disarmed and taken into custody by a Broward County Sheriff's Office (BSO) deputy within 85 seconds of the first shots being fired.
Charles Penfold Ingram (24 April 1833 – 20 August 1868) was an English doctor of medicine and a cricketer who played first-class cricket for Cambridge University in 1854 and 1859.
Spain As of summer 2022, Spanish police had registered 23 cases in Catalonia and 12 in the Basque Country.
Three days later, a freed Anderson made a report to police that he had been driven to a cottage in Devon and chained to a bed against his will, at which point Joyce Bernann McKinney had attempted to seduce and then raped him by forcing him to penetrate her.
McBurnie moved up to the under-21 team in 2015, and he made 12 appearances at that level, scoring 2 goals.
Police found an apparent suicide note inside Woodson's purse that declared her intentions and her reasons.
Robertson starred with Dawn Steele on Sea of Souls, they had previously appeared together in The Slab Boys.
In July 2018, Jordon was arrested on suspicion of assault, when an argument in a pub spilled over to a fight on the street.
Etymology The term buffaloing is documented as being used in the Wild West originally to refer to the act of being intimidated or cheated by bluffing.
Reportedly, many bars and restaurants throughout London have omitted "Ask for Angela" in employee training.
Enough evidence was found by a grand jury to return a true bill, and Bowlby was brought to court on 4 April, pleading not guilty.
In the long term it is estimated that one out of five victims will walk with a limp for the rest of their lives.
Individuals who develop psychological disorders following sexual assault have increased frequency and severity of psychopathology compared with individuals who have not experienced sexual assault.
After two years in Qatar he signed a one-year contract with Turkish Süper Lig club Konyaspor in August 2023.
Doctors diagnosed him with numerous broken bones, trauma to the genital area and gangrene of the legs.
Statistics About 2% of crimes recorded in England and Wales in the 2000s and 2010s are personal robberies.
NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly later stated that he was avoiding referring to the attacks as part of any sort of trend to avoid further copycat attacks and has instead been labeling them as hate crimes.
The first took place in the Gazdagrét district, targeting Zoltán T., a far-right extremist, who was leaving a post office.
By region Africa High incidence of acid assaults have been reported in some African countries, including Nigeria, Uganda, and South Africa.
He reprised the role in August 2017, becoming a regular cast member until 31 January 2019, with a brief appearance on 20 December 2024.
He got one more title shot, against Chávez on September 17, 1994 in Las Vegas, but, years removed from his prime, he was stopped by Chávez in the eighth round.
During an interview for promotion of the album, Green admitted that he would have liked to duet with Marvin Gaye: "In those days, people didn't sing together like they do now." In 2009, Green recorded "People Get Ready" with Heather Headley on the album Oh Happy Day: An All-Star Music Celebration.
According to the first paragraph of Gladys Ward's 1932 masters thesis at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, no one was truer to the white man's cause than Randolph and he was idolized by many.
He resigned in protest, but his constituents ratified his conduct by overwhelmingly reelecting him to his seat within a month.
He writes that the Jews had assumed a contentious attitude towards Muhammad, and as a group possessing substantial independent power, they posed a great danger.
Ferdinand won the Premier League Player of the Month award in January 2006, following his brother Rio to become the first brothers to win the award.
Somervell inherited Sorn Castle and its estate from his father Graham Somervell (born Graham Russell) in 1881, but sold it to the McIntyre family in 1907.
Banu Qaynuqa In the 7th century, the Banu Qaynuqa were living in two fortresses in the south-western part of the city of Yathrib, now Medina, having settled there at an unknown date.
However, if it is tried, it is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or both.
McBurnie later spoke about his first season as a professional, describing it as "ridiculous." He also spoke about his excitement ahead of the 2014–15 season.
Ward described the incident in the biography."The car started with a jerk, and he was thrown backward full length.
Malicious castration is a common law criminal offense consisting of the intentional maiming of another person's genitalia.
His final stop in the major leagues was with the Kansas City Cowboys but he lasted only 6 games in which he played poorly and his major league baseball career ended.
Going to the 12th and final round, Taylor led by wide margins on two of the three scorecards, and his corner famously told him that he needed to win that round.
The team announced that, following the game, the team would auction off the jerseys on behalf of the synagogue.
She found the defendant and searched him under section 1 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984.
Fourteen soccer fans from the same section of the stadium felt a prick and subsequently became unwell, although initial toxicological reports found nothing.
Revocation of bond While he was free on $1 million bond, Ludwick allegedly made plans to skip bail and flee the country.
The resulting injury can be quite severe, involving flesh split by nails, broken skulls, broken limbs, punctured lungs, and other serious damage.
See also Battery Assault occasioning actual bodily harm Grievous bodily harm References Archbold Criminal Pleading, Evidence and Practice, 1999, paragraphs 19–166 to 19–189 at pages 1605 to 1611 External links Crown Prosecution Service
The son of Hugh Ingram (1790–1863), a surgeon, and his wife Mary Bostock (1796–1879), he was born at Steyning in Sussex and died there as well.
Roma On 14 August 2018, Nzonzi signed for Serie A club Roma for an initial fee of €26.65 million, plus performance-related clauses that could be worth an additional €4 million.
He was struck by advertising boards and when he was lying on the floor without his helmet, was stamped and kicked in the head.
He held world championships in two weight classes, including the IBF junior welterweight title from 1988 to 1990, and the WBA welterweight title from 1991 to 1992.
He won a by-election in 1890, but he lost his seat to William Birkmyre, the Liberal candidate, in the 1892 general election.
As a result of his knee injury in 2002 and a follow-up operation, he appeared in only 64 games in 2003.
Taylor won his following three fights, including a second-round knockout over number four ranked welterweight Chad Broussard.
State criminal proceedings Bowers was also charged with 36 state criminal counts, including 11 counts of criminal homicide, six counts of aggravated assault, six counts of attempted criminal homicide, and 13 counts of ethnic intimidation.
On 24 March 2012, Nzonzi scored his second goal of the season in a 2–1 loss against Bolton Wanderers.
Professional boxing record References External links Boxing record for Meldrick Taylor from BoxRec (registration required) Meldrick Taylor at Olympedia Meldrick Taylor at Olympics.comMeldrick Taylor at Olympic.org (archived)
They have two children, both born in Salford, and lived in Worsley, Greater Manchester, close to where the player grew up.
War criminals from other conflicts, such as the Yugoslav Wars, have also had their citizenship stripped after their involvement in war crimes became known.
In January 2022, after holding an earlier evidentiary hearing, Judge Ambrose denied Bowers's motion to suppress evidence of statements he made after being arrested by police, inside an ambulance, and at the hospital the day of the attack.
He married his wife, Annie Margaret Gedge, on 8 August 1889, and had four sons: Henry Russell Bowlby, Maj Hugh Salvin Bowlby, Cuthbert Francis Bond Bowlby, and Oliver Gerard Bowlby, and two daughters: Margaret Bowlby and Agatha Frances Bowlby.
The first of many posthumous albums appeared in 1980; Sid Vicious, released by EMI sub-label Innocent Records, has as its jacket image the photo of Vicious's body being removed from 63 Bank St.
On August 26, 2011, Dane Hall was curb stomped in an attack outside a gay bar in Salt Lake City, Utah.
The criteria for a charge under section 47 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861 do not distinguish between members of the public and police officers as the victim.
Widely considered one of baseball's all-time best fielding shortstops, Vizquel won 11 Gold Glove Awards, including nine consecutive from 1993 to 2001.
In November 2020, McBurnie played in both of Scotland's UEFA Euro 2020 play-off matches (against Israel and Serbia), scoring in the penalty shoot-out win in the latter, which qualified Scotland for their first major tournament in over 20 years.
After playing no part in Limerick's successful Munster League campaign, he made a number of appearances throughout the subsequent National League, including at centre-forward in a second successive semi-final defeat.
Modern American statutes may define assault as including: an attempt to cause or purposely, knowingly, or recklessly causing bodily injury to another negligently causing bodily injury to another with a dangerous weapon (assault with a deadly weapon).
His 2002 autobiography, Omar!: My Life on and Off the Field, co-written with Bob Dyer, spent four weeks on the New York Times Best Seller List.
Joining him at Black House were a former classmate of his from the University of Pennsylvania, and a contractor.
Music: Sarah Vaughn) Fur, Norwegian National Ballet (Music: Keith Jarrett) Le Chant du Rossignol, Leipzig Ballet (Music: Igor Stravinsky) Killed, Les Ballets de Monte Carlo (Solo.
Hanson lives in Derbyshire; previously with his wife and two children but was prohibited from visiting the marital home in February 2024 at a court hearing.
Wilson declined, saying that he could not legally or by personal conviction participate, and calling dueling "the lingering relic of a barbarous civilization".
By summer the ensuing moral panic have eventually faded when media started to be more critical to the reports, and the number of rumors gradually decreased.
Indeed, the episode implicitly attributed this to pugilistic dementia—mentioning, time and again, how Taylor was well past his prime as a fighter.
Music: The Smashing Pumpkins, Jules Massenet, Erich Wolfgang Korngold, Ethel Smyth, Debbie Wiseman) 2023 In the Dutch Mountains, Nederlands Dans Theatre II (full-length.
Lawmakers Several pro-Beijing lawmakers, including Priscilla Leung and Ann Chiang, defended the officers, stating that their actions were the result of being provoked by Tsang.
The book "Archbold" says that this test applies to any case where the injury was not the direct result of the defendant's act.
He made his debut 13 days later in a 3–3 home draw with Atalanta, as a half-time substitute for Bryan Cristante with the team 3–1 down.
If you were to engage us in fight, you will realise that we are genuine war experts." O Muhammad, you seem to think that we are your people.
by, among other things, causing lenders to withdraw their financing offers or change the terms under which they would provide financing." Ludwick then dropped his lawsuit.
The defendant was arrested and was later discovered to have HIV and hepatitis C, though PC Hill was not infected.
Shafiullah told the court about his last telephone conversation with Sheikh Mujibur Rahman,When I spoke to Bangabandhu, upon hearing me he said, "Safiullah your force has attacked my house.
On November 6, the jury returned a verdict of not guilty after deliberating for around seven hours in total.
Paul High School in Virginia and attended University of Virginia's College at Wise but did not graduate.
In June 2017, following a few months in jail, three of the convicted were granted bail by the Court of Appeal, namely: Lau Cheuk-ngai, Lau Hing-pui, and Wong Wai-ho.
Brooks also required medical attention before leaving the Capitol; he had hit himself above his right eye with one of his backswings.
In February 2024, he trained with EFL Championship club Sheffield Wednesday, with manager Danny Röhl indicating a desire to sign the player.
He held that, as the defendant had recklessly given a false statement to PC Hill that put her in a dangerous situation with a foreseeable risk of harm through the omission, the Crown Court was incorrect to allow the motion to dismiss and allowed the appeal.
He returned as "ImJayStation" in late 2016, reuploading most content except material tied to his trespassing charges.
The track of Vicious singing the Johnny Thunders song "Born to Lose", which appears on Sid Sings, was recorded during this performance, as Vicious stepped in when Lydon left the stage to pose as Father Christmas.
The film gives extra details, from press reports of the day and from participants in the story, to the use of a (possibly fake) gun during Anderson's abduction, and Anderson being tied up during his alleged rape by McKinney.
Merely directing offensive remarks at the officer which amount to 'go away' will not necessarily withdraw any implied permission to enter or remain.
Robertson also starred in a one-man show Angels by Ronan O'Donnell at the "Play, a Pie and a Pint" event in Glasgow.
He said that he had "mustard and condiments on my uniform, and an onion hanging from my radio antenna that night".
However, this can be traced to significant underreporting in the 1980s and 1990s, along with a general lack of research on this phenomenon during that period.
On 31 August 2017, the last day of the English summer transfer window, a loan to Championship club Barnsley for the rest of the season was agreed.
Legacy Croatia's coach, Miroslav Blažević, has taken to wearing a kepi as a lucky charm and as a gesture of support for Nivel.
Robertson has said, "growing up in Govan put fire in my belly, made me push harder and also appreciate the things that have come my way." At the age of 11, Robertson joined a local dramatic arts group.
Woodburn was arrested on August 2, 2018, on simple assault, domestic violence, criminal mischief, and criminal trespass charges.
Prior to this, on March 16, the day before Mujib's birthday, there were bomb attacks in three places in Dhaka.
The New York Times called him "renowned" and said that as of 2023 he had for more than a decade been "a star" in European ballet.
The words "with or without hard labour" at the end were repealed for England and Wales by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948.
The method of killing for both Marinus Schöberl and Randall Townsend appears to have been inspired by this scene.
The critical TVB footage was also scrutinised, and the prosecutors had to call on various technical staff from TVB to help verify the authenticity of the video footage in light of challenges from the defence.
Other names given to assaults of this type include "knockout", "knockout king", "point 'em out, knock 'em out", and "polar-bearing" or "polar-bear hunting" (called such when the victim is white and the assailants are black).
However, following the political change in 1975 and during the subsequent military regime, he was released from custody.
Amateur career Taylor, one of many boxing champions hailing from the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, learned his craft in the gyms of his hometown and posted a 99–4 record as an amateur fighter.
To avoid the risk of damage or potential delay, pistol-whipping may be done with the gun held in an ordinary manner, hitting the target with an overhand strike from either the barrel or the flank of the gun above the trigger.
In 2019, British far-right activist Tommy Robinson was "milkshaked", having one thrown as a projectile in Bury on 1 May 2019, and another thrown the following day in Warrington while campaigning.
The coverage was extensive in part because the case was considered so anomalous, involving as it did the issue of rape of a man by a woman.
He also contested in the 2014 Indian general election from Balasore, Lok Sabha constituency as a BJP candidate, which he lost.
Another official inquiry by the National Commission for Minorities found that the killers cheered " bajrang dal Zindabad" before the attack.
According to Fred Donner, available sources do not elucidate the reasons for the expulsion of the Qaynuqa.
Brooks did not stop when his cane snapped; he continued thrashing Sumner with the piece that held the gold head.
Early life and education Luff was born in Philadelphia on September 14, 1856, to Walter Hamilton and Elizabeth Armstrong Luff.
Major League Baseball in Gilded Age Connecticut - The Rise and Fall of the Middletown, New Haven and Hartford Clubs.
In February 2021 McBurnie offered to pay for the funeral of a 26-year-old Swansea City fan who died.
His death is completely senseless." Wilcox's attempt at stopping Jerad Miller by using his concealed firearm also led to a debate over the necessity of concealed carry and its effectiveness during similar incidents.
Legal proceedings Markus Warnecke, a Braunschweig native in his late 20s, was arrested at the scene of the crime.
Despite placing second, DeCesare went on to briefly feud with eventual winner Christy Hemme, which led to a Lingerie Pillow Fight Match at the 2004 Taboo Tuesday pay-per-view in a losing effort.
This decision was criticised and in Haystead v DPP the Divisional court expressed the obiter opinion that common assault remains a common law offence.
Rise and death of Siraj Sikder Siraj Sikder was contemporary leading Bangladeshi Maoist leader, in Mujib's regime.
Kumar resigned from Bajrang Dal on 1 October 2008 after witnessing a Hindu woman who had decided to commit suicide with her three children but was saved by Christian missionaries.
When Playboy founder Hugh Hefner learned this, he invited her to his birthday party and convinced her to change her mind.
Belgium There was an incident of needle spiking of football supporters in May 2022 during a match between KV Mechelen and Racing Genk.
The LICADHO, the Association of the Blind in Cambodia, and the Cambodian Acid Survivors Charity assist survivors of acid attacks.
His follow-up album, Al Green Gets Next to You (1971), featured the hit R&B cover of the Temptations' "I Can't Get Next to You", recorded in a slow blues-oriented style.
He is one of only 31 players in baseball history to play in Major League games in four decades, and the only one who played shortstop.
In March, he teamed with fellow ECW alumni The Sandman and Justin Credible in a winning effort at an ECW show, and made an appearance in VIP Wrestling where he defeated Masada.
The attacks were carried out in similar ways, with the victims being ambushed from behind and then attacked with clubs, rubber hammers, telescopic batons, and pepper spray, in a manner similar to attacks carried out in Germany by left-wing extremists against far-right individuals.
Woodburn served on the Public and Municipal Affairs Committee and the Election Law and Internal Affairs Committee.
He toured the south and was normally squared off against Southern babyface tag team the Rock 'n' Roll Express.
The Bajrang Dal were reported to have stated that they were not against Christianity in the region but were offended by the alleged forcible conversions.
Chávez Over the next 18 months, Taylor won four more fights, setting up a unification bout with the WBC light welterweight champion Julio César Chávez on March 17, 1990 in Las Vegas.
In January 2023 it was announced that Ward was included on the longlist in the best supporting actor category for the 76th British Academy of Film and Television Arts awards.
Alternative names In Britain, especially historically at Oxford and Cambridge Universities in England, the term is known as debagging (derived from Oxford bags, a loose-fitting baggy form of trousers).
under section 7(1)(a), but that section has been superseded by section 66(1) of the Police (Northern Ireland) Act 1998 (c.
The new use of the term developed because the act of hitting someone with their revolver was seen as an additional insult to the character of the victim.
McKinney was ordered to a psychiatric evaluation and, on 11 July 2019, she was sent to the Los Angeles Court division for mentally incompetent defendants.
On 13 June 2025, two new charges of sexual penetration without consent were filed against Valencia Barrientos.
She's younger than me, she's a young woman and she's beautiful and she's sensitive and I care about her deeply." Brand, who married Perry without a prenuptial agreement, was eligible to claim half of the estimated $44 million she earned during their marriage but declined.
On the advice from his wife, after committing the murder, Groves surrendered himself at the police station and gave a full confession.
A few days prior, Green had sent Woodson to convalesce at the home of his friend after she had taken a handful of sleeping pills and slit her wrists.
Robertson featured in Steven Spielberg's Band of Brothers and played "Gash" in the Scottish comedy Rab C.
Nzonzi began his career with Ligue 2 side Amiens, impressing enough to earn a move to Premier League side Blackburn Rovers in 2009 for £650,000.
In the 5 years since its inception, the fund distributed $25 million to synagogues, mosques, and other nonprofit organizations.
The Irish Republican Army defined "political" crime as informing or fraternizing with British soldiers, while "normal" crime was judged to include vandalism, theft, joyriding, rape, selling drugs, and antisocial behaviour.
After reacting angrily to suffering a broken nose against Fulham, Nzonzi was told to keep his temperament in check by assistant manager David Kemp.
Jamelle Bouie of The Daily Beast was critical of the game's existence as a trend, comparing its existence to the "wilding" assault allegedly at hand in the Central Park jogger case and the often reported headlight flashing urban legend.
Goecke said the review had angered him, and that Hüster had written only two positive pieces about his work in the twenty years she'd been covering it.
In November, all four were found guilty: Zawacki was sentenced to ten years in prison for attempted murder; Reifschlaeger, Renger and Rauch were convicted of serious bodily harm.
* – Most laps led.) O'Reilly Auto Parts Series Gander Outdoors Truck Series * Season still in progress 1 Ineligible for series points ARCA Menards Series (key) (Bold – Pole position awarded by qualifying time.
After training with South African club Supersport United during the English summer, he rejoined Luton on 2 September 2010 on a contract until January 2011 after rejecting a deal with the South Africans.
Views on All Elite Wrestling All Elite Wrestling (AEW) executives The Young Bucks have accused Cornette of being a shock jock who says disparaging things about the company to get listeners for his podcast.
On 9 September 2017, Hayes lined out at centre-back in Limerick's 0-17 to 0-11 defeat of Kilkenny in the All-Ireland final.
His damaged car was leaking oil, and the police traced the oil trail back to the scene of the crash.
Ward starred alongside Olivia Colman, Colin Firth and Tanya Moodie in Sam Mendes' 2022 film Empire of Light.
Meldrick Taylor (born October 19, 1966) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1984 to 2002.
As a result of gangrene in the legs, doctors had to amputate both of his legs, his genitalia, and a finger.
Anton Julian Ferdinand (born 18 February 1985) is an English former footballer who most recently played for St Mirren as a centre back.
He is known for his portrayals of Pacey Witter on The WB's teen drama Dawson's Creek (1998–2003), Peter Bishop in the Fox science fiction series Fringe (2008–2013), a troubled married man on Showtime's The Affair (2014–2018), and Christopher Duntsch in the Peacock crime drama series Dr.
Pittsburgh mayor Bill Peduto said Trump should not have come, as the wounds were raw and the community was just beginning to mourn and hold funerals.
In August 2013, two Jewish women volunteer teachers – Katie Gee and Kirstie Trup from the UK – were injured by an acid attack by men on a moped near Stone Town in Tanzania.
Several assaults associated with the knockout game do not follow any particular pattern; in several instances, a single assailant attempted a one-punch attack while in others multiple assailants participated in a gang attack.
Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (2003, 2010) During 2003, New Jack wrestled occasional events for TNA wrestling.
The fact that the victim is a police officer is not, in itself, an aggravating factor which would justify more serious charge.
Jones retreated from Tuscaloosa in 1869 due to threats against him from Klansmen including Randolph and settled in Mobile.
For the purposes of section 89 of the Police Act 1996, any person who is carrying out surveillance in England and Wales under section 76A of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 is to be treated as if he were acting as a constable in the execution of his duty.
Corban graduated from the University of Northern Colorado with a bachelor's degree in Psychology and master's degree in Criminal Justice.
Personal life Hanson was born in Holbrook, Derbyshire, on 29 May 1978, to Philip Hanson and his wife Gillian.
Forensics Pistol whipping may leave unusual lacerations on the body of the injured due to various protruding details of the pistol.
According to several newspaper articles Nielsen was booted from the club with status "out" which, in effect, means so called bad standing.
We plan to record together." Turner struggled to find success due to his cocaine addiction and run-ins with the law.
A struggle ensued after Cleland reached for a .357 caliber handgun in the car that Gray was driving.
DeCesare appeared in multiple Playboy specials, including an individual direct to video special titled; Playboy Video Centerfold: Playmate of the Year Carmella DeCesare.
What Ike excelled at was leadership: conceptualization, organization, and execution." Turner's guitar style is distinguished by heavy use of the whammy bar to achieve a strong reverb-soaked vibrato, string bending, hammer-ons and triplets in his blues phrasing.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, many muggers were West Indian youths, largely due to socioeconomic discontent.
Despite the allegations, there has not been a single prosecution from needle spiking in the United Kingdom.
Australia South Australia's section 20(4) of the Criminal Law Consolidation Act 1935 creates the offence of assault causing harm.
In journalism and blogging, a listicle is an article that is structured as a list, which is often fleshed out with additional text relating to each item.
Charity campaigns during this period made use of hard-hitting images such as pictures of malnourished children with flies in their eyes.
Opinion corridor (Swedish: åsiktskorridor, Norwegian: meningskorridor) refers to a sociopolitical phenomenon that has been observed during the beginning of the 21st century in Sweden, and to some extent also in Norway.
Some commentators believe that this practice might give rise to a kleptocracy as a deviant mutation of a democracy if left unchecked.
See also Apparatchik Cadre management in the Soviet Union Nomenklatura References Further reading Гимпельсон Е.
This style of throbber dates from versions of UNIX appearing in the latter 1970s, and DR-DOS utilities in the 1980s, since it requires at least a character-cell addressable display—i.e.
Mapathons can also be an outside activity with online simultaneous map editing assisted by global positioning system trackers on mobile devices.
However, since the banks could only survive with government bailouts, these funds failed anyway, and so did the banks in the 2000s.
Spencer who sought to use it to promote white nationalist ideas across the political right in the United States; however, there remained differing views on the term; some understood it as an umbrella term for a broad range of rightists outside the neoconservatism then dominant in the U.S.
The peasants led an all-out attack to protect individual farming; however, Stalin did not see the peasants as a threat.
French Israelism (also called Franco-Israelism) is the French nationalist belief that people of Frankish descent in general, and the Merovingian dynasty in particular, are the direct lineal descendants of the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel, specifically, the descendants of the Tribe of Benjamin.
Popularity of diagnosis Because of diagnoses of sluggish schizophrenia, Russia in 1974 had 5–7 cases of schizophrenia per 1,000 population, compared to 3–4 per 1,000 in the United Kingdom.
The simplest explanation of the most common use of the term is enforcing limits to the maximum amount of wealth a person can accumulate in order to improve society so that it functions for all people instead of for only a select few.
It has since been used to refer to those who are ultraconservative, ultra-royalist, and pro-Prayut cabinet.
Mongolia was conquered by the Soviet Union and Sovietized in the 1920s, and after the end of the Second World War, Sovietization took place in the countries of the Soviet Bloc (Eastern and Central Europe: Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland, the Baltic states, etc.).
Radicalized Muslims often exploit the resonance with this term to attack Hindu nationalists as kafirs (infidels) and "Hindu Talibs".
To relocate to a closed city, one would need security clearance by the organization running it, such as the KGB in Soviet closed cities.
Puff-puff (Japanese: ぱふぱふ, Hepburn: pafupafu) is an onomatopoeia that conveys a woman's breasts being rubbed in someone's face.
When the player presses the key, the character steps forward and places his right hand on his comrade's coffin for several seconds, then turns around to leave.
Vladimir Lenin considered the Jacobin use of terror as a needed virtue and accepted the label Jacobin for his Bolsheviks.
MC5 and Jefferson Airplane both used the term "motherfuckers" on their respective 1969 songs "Kick Out the Jams" (from MC5's live album of the same name) and "We Can Be Together" (from Volunteers).
However, the KGB's widespread attempts at influence in the United States, Switzerland, and Denmark targeting the peace movement were known, and the World Peace Council was categorized as a communist front organization by the CIA.
Gaining popularity since 2019, the term is often used to convey intense or indescribable emotions (such as frustration or excitement), and it can also be used as an expression of laughter.
Members of a "culturally backward" nationality were eligible for preferential treatment in university admissions.
Cenat stated in an interview on the No Jumper podcast that after the word went viral on TikTok he stopped using it himself, stating that the viral use on TikTok "butchered" the word.
Masking product origins: Retailers sell products from different countries under a single farm brand name, subtly creating the impression that the majority of their products are homegrown or local.
Rotten.com hosted murder videos and images of deceased people, and brandished the motto "Pure Evil Since 1996".
Similar terms in other languages In Korean, the equivalent term is chobo or hasu, the opposite of gosu, meaning "highly skilled".
Although the FBI subsequently cleared the passengers and called the incident a "misunderstanding", AirTran refused to seat the passengers on another flight, forcing them to purchase last minute tickets on another airline that had been secured with the FBI's assistance.
Wooden floors were laid over wooden beams in the form of logs or timber, and sometimes over steel beams.
The majority of scholars set the starting year for economic stagnation at 1975, although some claim that it began as early as the 1960s.
However, while an adopting organization provides the volunteers who do the litter pickup, a sponsoring organization instead pays professional contractors to do the work.
A fictive army modelled after a possible future version of Eufor fighting under the European Flag using European build weaponry such as the Eurofighter Typhoon Deliberate attempts to use popular culture to promote identification with the EU have been controversial.
One of the earliest scholars who claimed that he could trace the ten lost tribes of Israel to France was the French Huguenot writer, Jacques Abbadie, who fled French Roman Catholic persecution and later settled in London, England.
Early life and education Matisoff was born July 14, 1937, in Boston, Massachusetts, to a working-class family of Russian Jewish origins.
After the collapse of the second Conte government in January 2021, the PD joined the new government of national unity led by Mario Draghi, former director of the European Central Bank.
It can also refer to the holder of other assets and financial instruments that become worthless, such as the junior bonds of a defaulted company or the coins of a failed cryptocurrency.
The internet hosts several websites that feature rabbis answering questions received by email, or SMS.
The McGriddles are a variant of the McMuffin with a scrambled egg flap and American cheese between two maple-flavored griddle pancakes, with the same variants as the McMuffin.
"Jihobbyist" Brachman coined the phrase "jihobbyist" (portmanteau of jihad and hobbyist) in his 2008 book Global Jihadism: Theory and Practice.
They contend that replacing them with closely spaced, large high-rise towers will lead to over-densification, degrading the urban environment by reducing sunlight, airflow, and green spaces.
Essayist Rosie Swayne condemns accusations of the cotton ceiling being coercive, writing that the sexuality of trans women is so "policed" that entering into a discussion of the cotton ceiling will inevitably result in accusations "of being 'rapey'".
Since then, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance has become the best-selling philosophy book of all time.
This term is sometimes used as an alternative to the term "Eastern Europe," excluding Russia for more neutral grouping.
Highcastle was another of Lem's autobiographical works, and touched upon a theme that usually was not favored by the censors: Lem's youth in the pre-war, then-Polish, Lviv.
See also Repression of science in the Soviet Union Cybernetics in the Soviet Union Censorship in the Soviet Union Soviet historiography Politicization of science Notes == References ==
However, the Bush Justice Department, including the FBI, was criticized in 2010 for improper investigations and prosecutions of left-leaning US protest groups such as Greenpeace.
Design Exterior Unlike the five-story khrushchevka that precedes it, the brezhnevka contains nine to seventeen stories.
The Roblox oof (also known simply as "oof") is a sound effect that plays when a player dies or resets in the online video game platform Roblox.
Alternative origins Lear does not appear to have had any firm idea of what the word "runcible" means.
Deobandis reject the use of innovation (Bid'ah) in religious practice and emphasize following the example of Muhammad as closely as possible.
Partmaximum was introduced in 1920 by a decree of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee (ВЦИК) for all communists that held executive positions in Party, industry, government and Soviet trade unions.
Genderqueer evolved into both an umbrella term for identities outside the gender binary and an adjective or self-identity term for those who challenge or diverge from conventional gender norms, or who "queer" gender.
"food tax";) is the Russian word for a tax on food production, paid in kind in the Soviet Union, and sometimes known as "the tax in kind".
Puppet rebel forces Operation Trust In "Operation Trust" (1921–1926), the State Political Directorate (OGPU) set up a fake anti-Bolshevik underground organization, "Monarchist Union of Central Russia".
It was inspired by the writings of Marr's most energetic opponent, Arnold Chikobava, In the article, Stalin rebuts the Japhetic hypothesis, stating that "N.
Italian occult psychedelia was coined by journalist Antonio Ciarletta in an article published by Italian music magazine Blow Up, in January 2012.
Origin Edward Lear's best-known poem, The Owl and the Pussy-Cat, published in 1870, includes the passage: Another mention of this piece of cutlery appears in Edward Lear's alphabetical illustrations Twenty-Six Nonsense Rhymes and Pictures.
Analysts note that the term's use reflects Brazil's political polarisation, where rhetorical terms are employed by various groups to frame political opponents.
See also Caste politics in India Sanatani Hindu law Classical Hindu law References Shashi Shekhar Sharma, Imagined Manuvād: the Dharmaśāstras and their interpreters, Rupa & Co., 2005
In his book The Case for Democracy, published in 2004, Sharansky explains the term: "If a person cannot walk into the middle of the town square and express his or her views without fear of arrest, imprisonment, or physical harm, then that person is living in a fear society, not a free society.
Patrick McCreery, lecturer at New York University, argues that this hierarchy explains how gay people are stigmatized for socially "deviant" sexual practices that are often practiced by straight people as well, such as consumption of pornography or sex in public places.
Given Japan's aging population, there is concern that government focus on the elderly has overshadowed those too poor to have ever started a family, who themselves will be moving into old age largely devoid of the financial resources other generations had.
In the early 1990s, Lem met with the literary critic and scholar Peter Swirski for a series of extensive interviews, published together with other critical materials and translations as A Stanislaw Lem Reader (1997).
It seemed that this time everything would be ready on time, but again the builders failed to complete their work, and regional authorities failed to select and deliver proper exhibits.
The Star, a South African newspaper, describes a tenderpreneur as "someone politically well-connected who has got rich through the government tendering system".
After Wellstone's death in 2002, his longtime aide and campaign manager, Jeff Blodgett, founded Wellstone Action, which promotes conviction politics through education and training.
"Nationalism, Revolution and Narcotics Trafficking in Latin America (Colombia, Peru, Cuba)," University of Virginia ( Thesis Ph.D.
Can also mean For Your Attention, For Your Approval, For Your Assistance, For Your Awareness, For Your Authorization, or For Your Acknowledgement.
History The McDouble was introduced in 1997, garnished with lettuce, tomatoes, and mayonnaise instead of the cheese that currently tops it.
The name of the burger was immediately criticized for being grossly insensitive, especially since it was released in Norway, one of the richest nations in the world.
The sane individuals who were diagnosed as mentally ill were sent either to regular psychiatric hospitals or, if deemed particularly dangerous, to special ones run directly by the MVD.
The Open Bioinformatics Foundation ran two hackathons for its member projects in 2002 and 2003, and since 2010 has held 2-day "codefests" preceding its annual conference.
Some of them include "#BUกูไม่เอาสลิ่ม" (Bangkok University [BU] don't want salims), "#ราชภัฏอยากงัดกับสลิ่ม" (Rajabhat universities want to fight with salims), "#KUไม่ใช่ขนมหวานราดกะทิ" (Kasetsart University [KU] is not dessert with coconut milk [suggesting the dessert salim]).
Informal Romanised Urdu does not use numerals, and rarely uses mixed case, because the Arabic letters that lack a clear equivalent in the English Latin alphabet (e.g.
The FTC took action against both the promoter of the phony extended auto warranties, as well as the telemarketing company that it hired to carry out its illegal, deceptive campaign.
Social impact This failing economy kicked off what would be called the Japanese Lost Generation; in the 1990s, this consisted of college graduates who were unable to find employment and thus suffered the economic consequences.
When he was a candidate, Tom Perriello stated: "More often, the deepest connection with another person comes from when I disagree with them and admit it, because at least they know I will tell the truth.
The far-right Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) placed first, winning 28.8% of the vote and achieving its best result in the party's history.
With Perestroika, the United States and the West became more accessible to Soviet citizens and suddenly "it became obvious that the Imaginary West was something very different from the real West".
The Worker and Kolkhoz Woman sculpture was originally created to crown the Soviet pavilion of the 1937 World's Fair in Paris.
The marked content may contain graphic violence, pornography, profanity, nudity, slurs, or other potentially disturbing subject matter.
Ascott (ed) Consciousness Reframed: art and consciousness in the post-biological era: 1st International CAiiA Research Conference Proceedings published by University of Wales College, Newport.
While he kept exhibiting his work at individual and collective exhibitions, he also ran unsuccessfully as candidate for the municipal and federal elections in 1982 for PSUM (Partido Socialista Unificado de México).
Imagine the shame you'd feel – a grown adult incapable of avoiding the small pool of urine you'd leave behind on a friend's chair after a visit ...
This form of afocal photography became more common in general photography in the 21st century with the spread of point and shoot digital cameras because of the ease of use of this type of setup.
Rehabilitation committees (Chinese: 平反委员会; pinyin: Píngfǎn Wěiyuánhuì) considered appeals from both the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party as well as from petitions—often in the form of big-character posters—by ordinary citizens.
It is becoming an increasingly economically relevant region on the world stage, though it is also projected to have problems with climate change accelerating refugee crises and conflicts in the region.
Criticism Critics have emphasized that Western aid is not unconditional but tied to political and economic requirements, shaping Ukraine’s policy agenda around external rather than domestic priorities.
Reaction from the United States Yuan Li, reporter of The New York Times said: "The depiction of the United States as a place where economic hardship is deep and widespread has been a go-to of official Chinese messaging for years.
Overall, planning in cross-jurisdictional megaregions can be susceptible to varying levels of regulations.
Laugh-Out-Loud Cats is a series of cartoons created by Adam "Ape Lad" Koford that features two anthropomorphic hobo cats named Kitteh and Pip.
Cable and streaming services are lacking in diversity, according to a GLAAD report, with many of the LGBT characters being gay men (41% and 39% respectively).
The second 5-year plan (1933–1937) introduced an incentive scheme to persuade all the peasants to join collective farms.
The suggestion was inspired to an extent by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk's adoption of the Latin alphabet for Turkish in Turkey.
"An Alternative Sense of Humor: The Problems With Crossing Comedy and Politics in Public Discourse".
In telecommunications, data rate units are commonly multiples of bits per second (bit/s) and bytes per second (B/s).
Post World War II counter-insurgency operations Following World War II, various partisan organizations in the Baltic states, Poland and Western Ukraine fought for independence of their countries, which were under Soviet occupation, against Soviet forces.
This explanation allows us to see the historical fulfillment of the prophetic picture in the Gothic warriors, prepared for conquest, destined for empire, and ancestors of the tribes who inhabit this nation [France].
Partmaximum was cancelled by a secret resolution of the Politburo of February 8, 1932; however, it was bypassed with benefits in kind even earlier.
A notable wave of Sovietization (in the second meaning) occurred during the Russian Civil War in the territories captured by the Red Army.
The term combines the surname Bolsonaro with the word minion, meaning "follower" or "supporter", and also recalls the popular animated characters from the Despicable Me franchise.
In Germany an additional McPlant Tomato Chargrill became a permanent menu item after a collaboration with two members of the band Tokio Hotel in 2024.
Derrida first notes that, in the wake of the fall of communism, many in the west had become triumphalist, as is evidenced in the formation of a neoconservative grouping and the displacement of the left in third way political formations.
The term Servomechanism is usually used in industrial/mechanical situations (non-biological and non-computational) where it often applies to analog state change, e.g.
It was adopted by Generation Z and Generation Alpha, popularized by viral TikTok trends such as the catchphrase "delulu is the solulu", that is, self-confidence is key to achieving one's dreams, however far-fetched.
Bitcamp, held at the University of Maryland, College Park since 2014, is another large hackathon with over 1,000 high school and college students attending each year.
The term is used in academic and social discourse to describe systemic or cultural bias against Hispanic or Latino populations.
Vanuatu recognized Abkhazia (but not South Ossetia) after a suspected amount of Russian aid equivalent to that given to Nauru.
A common example is the perception of a face within an inanimate object—the headlights and grill of an automobile may appear to be "grinning".
In 2018, Affrilachian poets celebrated 25 years since the term was created in the book, Black Bone: 25 Years of the Affrilachian Poets edited by Bianca Lynn Spriggs and Jeremy Paden, published by The University Press of Kentucky.
Brigitte Macron, the spouse of the president of France, filed lawsuits against allegations that she was born male.
Instead, this 'bricoleur' is flexible enough to be able to use minimal resources for multiple applications.
When asked about the tweet, White told Newsweek: "By 'bad guys,' I mean those who benefited from World War II without fighting in it—people who funded the wars, gained political power or institutional prominence," he said.
However, applets had very little control over web page content outside the applet dedicated area, so they were less useful for improving the site appearance in general (while applets like news tickers or WYSIWYG editors are also known).
In June 2020, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the 1964 Civil Rights Act could protect gay and transgender people from workplace discrimination.
Tōyoko kids (Japanese: トー横キッズ) is a Japanese term describing marginalized youth, including some homeless, who gather in the back alleys around the Shinjuku Toho Building (新宿東宝ビル) in Kabukicho.
This is why the minimum age to legally appear in pornography is 18 in countries where pornography is fully or partially legalized.
Reception Since the release of Kaminski's book, the term has circulated internationally in lifestyle, health and psychology news coverage and commentary.
If the flow of information within a company is insufficient, the people involved often have a limited understanding of how to react in situations that require quick assessment and prompt decision making.
Surveys suggest Bolsonaro continues to command significant popular support, highlighting the resilience of his platform despite ongoing controversies.
On the political right, the term has been adopted by politicians like Margaret Thatcher, who declared "I am not a consensus politician.
Marites is also a common female nickname in the Philippines, which helped the term become widely known.
Pitchfork's Marc Masters offered that it may have originated "less [as] a movement than a coincidence".
Spinning wheel Throbbers also appear in client side applications (such as Ajax web apps) where an application within the web browser would wait for some operation to complete.
Hoteps often denounce homosexuality and interracial marriage, promote the view that Black women should be subordinate to Black men, and oppose LGBT rights and feminism, which they view as inimical to Black liberation.
Cameron himself made a surprise return as Foreign Secretary in November 2023, this time as a member of the House of Lords.
"Press F to pay respects" is an Internet meme that originated from Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, a 2014 first-person shooter in Activision's Call of Duty franchise.
The RPA definition of the American portion of the region includes the geographically detached metropolitan areas of Minneapolis–St.
In some cases, Fine said, agents began investigations of people affiliated with activist groups for 'factually weak' reasons and 'without adequate basis' and improperly kept information about activist groups in its files.
The European Islamophobie Report aims to enable policymakers as well as the public to discuss the issue of Islamophobia with the help of qualitative data.
Torres said she and many other performers were essentially raised in the industry from childhood and learned from their parents.
History The Jargon File states that the word was coined around 1975 at MIT, although LUSER is visible in CTSS source code circa 1969 in subroutines involving spying on and killing users and deleting their files and directories.
In the United States, the product was initially tested in November 2021, with expanded tests in California and Texas from February 2022.
Description As of 2025, the McDouble contains 390 calories, 22g of protein, 32g of carbs, and 20g of total fat.
He published the Pétrísk-Íslensk Orðabók (Petrish-Icelandic dictionary), a list of self-made neologisms that has received much attention in Iceland.
Definitions of sham marriage vary by jurisdiction, but are often related to poverty, residence permits or citizenship.
This resulted in a fascination with ordinary western clothing commonly provided smugglers, the most notable example being denim jeans and shirts.
Media While conventional reportage and essay writing often require the careful crafting of narrative flow, the building-block nature of the listicle lends itself to more rapid production.
As of January 2017, Koford has posted over 2,800 panels, which are presented on his blog HOBOTOPIA and on Flickr.
In November 2022, British video essayist Hbomberguy published an exposé that disputed Tallarico's claim that he had created the sound effect.
Tenderpreneurship is often accomplished by overpricing and/or shoddy workmanship and/or excessive 'under the table' advances termed "commissions".
See also Egg of Columbus Jon Lech Johansen aka "DVD Jon", among the first hackers to crack DVD encryption Script kiddie, an unskilled hacker who relies on tools created by others == References ==
Persistent earworms (lasting more than 24 hours) may be caused by many different illnesses, such as stroke or cancer metastasizing to the brain.
The "active reserve" included KGB officers with a military rank who worked undercover in the Soviet Union.
The lack of Islamic samizdat appears incongruous with the large percentage of Muslims who resided in the USSR.
In South Africa, a tenderpreneur is a person in government or the private sector who obtains private or government tenders and contracts to facilitate outsourced services.
Manhattan south of Harlem (he placed Harlem, and by extension the Manhattan neighborhoods to its north, clearly within The Foundry), along with Connecticut's Fairfield County.
Geoffrey Hosking writes in his History of the Soviet Union that owning an apartment in a cooperative house for a Soviet citizen became, in a way, a symbol of an intermediate social status - between the privileged elite and ordinary workers who depended on employers and local councils for housing.
In medicine, the term is used in the field of [imaging] to describe the practice of medical ultrasonography.
Adding the special characters makes it harder to type and would cause things such as Twitter hashtags to break.
Cochran created the Affrilachian Artist Project with the goal of building a sustainable collaborative network among the region's artists and community organizers.
James Alan Matisoff (simplified Chinese: 马蒂索夫; traditional Chinese: 馬蒂索夫; pinyin: Mǎdìsuǒfū or simplified Chinese: 马提索夫; traditional Chinese: 馬提索夫; pinyin: Mǎtísuǒfū; born July 14, 1937) is an American linguist.
The concept's roots are in Gayle Rubin's notion of the sex/gender system and Adrienne Rich's notion of compulsory heterosexuality.
Two or three years later in Costa Rica, he was implicated in drug trafficking to finance the Contras.
Unit prefixes In both the SI and ISQ, the prefix k stands for kilo, meaning 1000, while Ki is the symbol for the binary prefix kibi-, meaning 1024.
Debates and factors According to the report named "Indian Century: Defining India's Place in a Rapidly Changing Global Economy" by IBM Institute for Business Value, India is predicted to be among the world's highest-growth nations over the coming years.
In 2009, it was suggested that a future version of HTML could include "NSFW" as a standardized tag for adult material on websites that could be automatically hidden depending on user settings.
By the end of the 1990s, Northeast Asia had a share of 12% of the global energy consumption, with a strong increasing trend.
Background Donornomics emerged in Ukraine after the start of the full-scale Russian invasion on 24 February 2022.
[Translation of "Apostles of the Impossible: Derrida and Marion," in God, the Gift and Postmodernism, eds.
Three years later, due to the earthquake of 1985, Ehrenberg became involved in the protection and reconstruction of the legendary Tepito neighborhood against real estate speculation.
The music has been variously described as a 21st-century update of psychedelia, a reappropriation of media-saturated capitalist culture, and an "American cousin" to British hauntology.
Hangover symptoms validated in controlled studies include general malaise, thirst, headache, feeling dizzy or faint, tiredness, loss of appetite, nausea, stomach ache, and feeling as though one's heart is racing.
Hoteps espouse a mixture of black radicalism and social conservatism, often through generating social media content on sites such as Twitter and Instagram.
In February 2016 in a hotel in central Paris, France, about 60 volunteers helped the Missing Maps humanitarian project to preemptively map vulnerable parts of the world on OpenStreetMap.
Human rights organizations included the Cleveland Council on Soviet Anti-Semitism (1963), Student Struggle for Soviet Jewry (1964), Bay Area Council for Soviet Jews (1967), the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews (1970), and the National Coalition Supporting Soviet Jewry (1971).
Mesh bags are constructed from strands, yarns, or non-woven synthetic material into a net-like structure.
According to a survey released today, a shocking two-thirds of the country’s white-collar workers said they didn’t want to work abroad ...
There were online applet collections for studying various subjects, from physics to heart physiology.
The ambiguity of "glasnost" defines the distinctive six-year period (1985–1991) at the end of the USSR's existence.
In 1989, the Tokyo Stock Exchange reached another high index of USD$40,000 due to the Japanese economy's profits.
Both names highlight behaviors that can be socially annoying, but they come from very different cultural situations.
This type of pattern recognition can result in apophenia based on the fact that since the brain is not looking for exact matches, it can pick up some characteristics of a match and assume it fits.
Divya Singhal (December 8, 2011), Why this Kolaveri Di: Maddening Phenomenon of Earworm, SSRN 1969781 External links The Involuntary Musical Imagery Scale (IMIS) at Goldsmith University of London Margulis, Elizabeth Hellmuth (January 16, 2014).
Technolibertarianism, sometimes referred to as cyberlibertarianism, is a political ideology with roots in the Internet's early hacker cypherpunk culture in Silicon Valley in the early 1990s and in American libertarianism.
Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable defines a runcible spoon as: "A horn spoon with a bowl at each end, one the size of a table-spoon and the other the size of a tea-spoon.
Earliest uses probably date to late twentieth century United States Armed Forces jargon, though possible precursor terms date much earlier.
Loud quitting arose as an alternative response to quiet quitting and hustle culture following the COVID-19 pandemic.
Under his influence, therapists have begun to widely use antidepressants and antipsychotics but often in inadequate cases and in inappropriate doses, without consulting psychiatrists.
A Journal of Politics study found that anger—more than anxiety—increases information-seeking behavior and drives users to click through to content, creating psychological incentives for angry rhetoric in political communication.
Stalin removed all mention of “bourgeois biology” from Trofim Lysenko’s report, The State of Biology in the Soviet Union, and in the margin next to the statement that “any science is based on class” Stalin wrote, “Ha-ha-ha!!
Jason Bateman: The actor has repeatedly visited Disneyland since he moved to Los Angeles in the 1970s, and described his voice acting work on Disney Animation's 2016 film Zootopia as "a really big, big call for me".
This can be used to direct an email towards an individual when an email is being sent to a team email address or to a specific department in a company.
They started to use all political institutions." Notable active reserve officers Many Russian democratic politicians and businessmen hired officers of the active reserve as their closest associates.
It is popular with technical support staff who have to deal with lusers as part of their job, often metaphorically employing a LART (Luser Attitude Readjustment Tool, also known as a clue-by-four, cluestick, or cluebat), meaning turning off the user's access to computer resources and the like.
has been referenced in various video games, including World of Warcraft in which the auctioneer characters O’Reely and Yarly are a reference to "O RLY?" and "YA RLY!", respectively.
Use in marketing In April 1997, clothing retailer French Connection began branding their clothes with fcuk (usually written in lowercase), stating it was an acronym for "French Connection United Kingdom".
Relays would retain a back buffer to permit clients to resume streaming from anywhere within the range of said buffer.
Lovejoy (who first appeared in 1990) repeatedly exclaimed, "Think of the children!" in several episodes of the series.
A Place to Fight For (Une zone à défendre), feature film by Romain Cogitore, starring François Civil and Lyna Khoudri.
In scholarly usage, it is understood not merely as individual prejudice, but as a phenomenon embedded within historical and structural systems of racial and colonial power, which produce and sustain the “othering” of Hispanic peoples.
The major legal issue involved in time shifting concerns "fair use" law and the possibility of copyright infringement.
A form of modern mechanicism.", "Eugenics is a bourgeois pseudoscience", "Weismannism-Morganism - bourgeois pseudoscience, designed to justify capitalism".
The conspiracy theory, which suggests that she was previously known as "Jean-Michel Trogneux", has been traced to a far-right author in France, and has trended on social media.
The Earth Liberation Front, founded in 1992, joined with the Animal Liberation Front, which had its beginnings in England in 1979.
For example, Cixous & Clément (1975) decry the "dual, hierarchical oppositions" set up by the traditional phallogocentric philosophy of determinateness, wherein "death is always at work" as "the premise of woman's abasement", woman who has been "colonized" by phallogocentric thinking.
It is a film genre which attempts to capture reality such as it is (as direct cinema or cinéma vérité) and which simultaneously introduces unreal elements or fictional situations in narrative in order to strengthen the representation of reality using some kind of artistic expression.
His reasoning is that everyone has something to contribute – it's easy and tempting, when someone ticks a person off or is mistaken (or both), to simply disregard all their input in the future by setting the "bozo flag" to TRUE for that person.
In Shevchenko’s social media posts (particularly on the X platform, 17 September 2025), the term is illustrated with examples such as the reduction of the U.S.
Poor blacks were active, but the movement was overwhelmingly led by educated, middle-class intellectuals and community leaders (preachers prominent among them).
Deploying Renewables 2011: Best and Future Policy Practice is a 2011 book by the International Energy Agency.
Dammed: The Politics of Loss and Survival in Anishinaabe Territory is a 2020 book by Brittany Luby, associate professor of history at the University of Guelph.
The book is a collection of essays from authors representing diverse backgrounds, including Japanese American, Mestizo, African American, Hawaiian, Arab American, Chicano and Native American.
The book has been discussed and reviewed widely, including with DeLucia in conversation with WBUR's Meghna Chakrabarti and by a group of scholars for H-Environment Roundtable Reviews.
It also covers often ignored areas of the sustainable energy discussion such as population issues, morality, social justice and equity.
Supply chain sustainability looks at the environmental and human impacts of products in the supply chain.
See also List of Australian environmental books Unequal Protection: The Rise of Corporate Dominance and the Theft of Human Rights == References ==
so radical that, if put into practice, it could effect meaningful preservation." However, when it comes to putting it into practice, Parker finds Kingsnorth's approach "somewhat disappointing...
The novelist Joseph Conrad used it as source material for some of his novels, including Almayer's Folly, An Outcast of the Islands, and The Rescue.
Ultimately, Loo argues that wildlife conservation was shaped by, and ultimately shaped in turn, Canadians' values about their relationship with the natural world.
The Guardian notes that the author has had influence in corporate sustainability efforts and that companies such as Interface and Autodesk have backed the project.
The author Professor Beder was included in a list of "Australia's most influential engineers", published by Engineers Australia in 2004.
A heavy meat diet requires much more than a vegetarian diet, because water is used to grow food for the animals as well as being used directly to support the livestock.
Douglas, a long-time environmental advocate who had argued against the court's rejection of the Long Island pesticide spraying case and had provided Carson with some of the material included in her chapter on herbicides.
He initially got the idea for "Man and Nature" from his observations in his New England home and his foreign travels devoted to similar inquiries.
The book is about the radiation exposure of people and their livestock living downwind from the nuclear weapons testing at the Nevada Test Site in the 1950s.
Worldwide growth in nuclear power has slowed in recent years, with no new reactors and an "actual decline in global capacity and output in 2008".
Graves List of books about nuclear issues Nuclear fallout References External links NY Times review of Fallout Exposure of the American Population to Radioactive Fallout from Nuclear Weapons Tests
Synopsis With a foreword by Doug Chadwick, the book chronicles Williams' journey, from his early work at a Florida marine park, to his conversion to "a lifelong devotee of the species".
Matt Ridley discussed it in The Spectator, and in Prospect magazine said the book was "written with grace and flair" and deserved to win prizes, while conceding that he had financial interests in coal mining.
Shrubsole explores how these ancient woodlands have influenced British culture, appearing in legends and stories such as the tales of King Arthur, which often depict enchanted forests as places of mystery and magic, as well as J.
The program continued for two decades after 1994, first under Peter Beren, the former marketing director, then under Helen Sweetland, the former children's books editor.
The second and third editions appeared in 2000 and 2006; an English translation is available as well.
A Collective Bargain: Unions, Organizing, and the Fight for Democracy is a 2020 non-fiction book by union organizer Jane McAlevey.
Vogel finds that, while counterexamples do exist, trade liberalization on balance has strongly reinforced environment-improving regulations.
The book documents the environmental history of uranium mining at Elliot Lake, Ontario, on Serpent River First Nation, including the advocacy of the Serpent River Anishinaabe to raise awareness about mining impacts on the community.
Part III introduces the "Sustainable Value tool-kit": a step-by-step approach to creating and managing value for stakeholders in a broad range of sectors.
She also discovered that Alcoa sold waste product as a fertilizer or road deicer through L-Bar, a smaller company.
Food, Inc.: How Industrial Food Is Making Us Sicker, Fatter, and Poorer — And What You Can Do About It is a 2009 companion book to the documentary film of the same name about the industrialization of food production and about the negative results to human health and to the natural environment.
Contents A Temperate Empire explores perceptions of climate among colonists and colonial scientists in New England and Nova Scotia during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
The book explores human society's impact on the natural world, both for the planet and the people living on it.
The book argues that climate change, rather than being a problem to be solved, is an idea which reveals different individual and collective beliefs, values and attitudes about ways of living in the world.
The 1962 publication of Rachel Carson's Silent Spring has been regarded as particularly important in popularizing environmental science and helping to launch the modern environmental movement.
In November 2006, a conference based on the book was held at the University of Brighton in the UK and organised jointly by UKELA and ELF.
The book opens with the story of Bernie Banton, former James Hardie employee, who suffered from asbestos-induced fibrosis and later died.
He concluded by saying "[h]aving said all this, I enjoyed reading the book and I got food for thought." John M.
The book includes a critical review of international relations literature in relation to climate issues.
By combining reduced energy use with energy efficiency gains, Lovins says that there will be a $5 trillion saving over the next 40 years and a faster-growing economy.
Rajendra Pachauri, chairman of the IPCC, said the necessary investment in renewables would cost only about 1% of global GDP annually.
In these pages, the Union of Concerned Scientists help inform consumers about everyday decisions that significantly affect the environment.
Author Chris Laszlo is a visiting professor at Case Western University’s Weatherhead School of Management, and co-founder of Sustainable Value Partners, LLC, where he has advised executives on sustainability for competitive advantage.
See also List of books about nuclear issues Nuclear Power and the Environment Reaction Time Contesting the Future of Nuclear Power Non-Nuclear Futures References External links Non-nuclear sustainable energy futures for Germany and the UK
An Appeal to Reason: A Cool Look at Global Warming is a 2008 pseudoscientific climate change denial book by Nigel Lawson.
They advocate a system of "triage," such as that suggested by William and Paul Paddock in Famine 1975!.
Hamilton relates the fetish for growth to a "development mentality", and to a neoliberal "instrumental value theory [which] maintains that, while humans are valuable in and of themselves, the non-human world is valuable only insofar as it contributes to the well-being of humans" (page 191).
For better or worse, cars created freeways, shopping malls, McDonald's, drive-in banking – even the Beach Boys!" Hightower argues: "A new wave of technology is sweeping the land.
Much will have to change if the ongoing overshoot is not to be followed by collapse during the twenty-first century." In 2012, the Smithsonian Institution held a symposium entitled "Perspectives on Limits to Growth".
Last Chance to See is a 1989 BBC radio documentary series and its accompanying book, written and presented by Douglas Adams and Mark Carwardine.
Brook said that Plimer's "stated view of climate science is that a vast number of extremely well respected scientists and a whole range of specialist disciplines have fallen prey to delusional self-interest and become nothing more than unthinking ideologues.
The policy innovations needed to unlock and speed it need no act of Congress." The profitable commercialization of existing energy-saving technologies, through market forces, can be led by business.
The Great Derangement: Climate Change and the Unthinkable is a 2016 non-fiction book by Indian writer Amitav Ghosh discussing climate change.
A paperback edition was published by Bantam in 1981, in a paperback revised edition, by Bantam Books, in 1989 (ISBN 0-553-34717-9).
The focus comes to rest extensively on the views and experiments conducted by scientists in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, such as those done by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, Japetus Steenstrup, Friedrich Küchenmeister, and Ray Lankester.
In the ending of Falter McKibben transitions from the warnings of rapid human innovation, then provides reasons for hope, such as renewable energy advances (especially solar panels) and climate activism.
In 2008, the President's Council on Bioethics commissioned two essays by Rubin on upholding human dignity, which he titled "Human Dignity and the Future of Man" and "Commentary on Bostrom".
Wilkinson describes the careers of a variety of publicly employed scientists who, in the course of their work for government agencies, found habitat degradation, threatened species, or other decline in availability of a natural resource.
MacArthur and Wilson thus assume that there will be an equilibrial point where the immigration rate equals the extinction rate.
The book uses the term "colloquial liberalisms" to describe how variable landscapes shaped local interpretations of liberalism, highlighting the ways in which ideologies interact with the environment.
See also IPCC 4th Assessment Report (AR4) IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) IPCC Summary for Policymakers IRENA Renewable energy commercialization REN21 List of books about renewable energy References External links Report (in English) IPCC SRREN: Full Report (In German)
The geneticist Bryan Clarke, who had worked alongside Bernard Kettlewell at Oxford, described Hooper's book as "a treasury of insinuations worthy of an unscrupulous newspaper".
The New York Times Book Review notes how the family "became happier with less—and urges others to do likewise." "We know that selling a house is goofy, and we recognize that most people can't do it", admitted Kevin Salwen.
All profits of the book (printed on 100% recycled paper) go to the Alliance for Climate Protection, which Gore founded in 2006.
Following this approach the report estimates that livestock "is responsible for 18 percent" of total anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions, but 37% of methane and 65% of nitrous oxide emissions.
In November 2019, Thunberg was named author of the year by Waterstones for No One Is Too Small to Make a Difference.
Throughout the book, Klein discusses her support for the Green New Deal and in the final essay she notes of the 2020 U.S.
It also collates information from industry associations such as the American Wind Energy Association, Solar Energy Industries Association, National Hydropower Association, as well as some non-profit organizations.
Svensmark is otherwise known as a Danish physicist and professor, while Calder had worked as a science journalist.
He is a man who indulges in intrigue and in the activities of scurrilously besmirching any individual he does not like, without any care whatsoever.
Before the biblical text, the Green Bible provides an introduction from Archbishop Desmond Tutu and essays from Brian McLaren, Cal DeWitt, Barbara Brown Taylor, Pope John Paul II, Ellen F.
the reason is that the truth about the climate crisis..." was also highlighted and separated from the main writing in that section.
The environmental community newsletter TerraGreen cited the book's good reception by Toyota's advanced technologies group.
The Weather of the Future: Heat Waves, Extreme Storms, and Other Scenes From a Climate-Changed Planet (ISBN 978-0-06-172688-0) is a 2010 book by climatologist Heidi Cullen.
Yet nowhere did Schimper acknowledge his profound debt to Warming, neither in the list of picture credits, nor in the acknowledgements section of the Vorwort, nor in his list of major sources, and not even in a footnote!
External links Energy and American Society – Thirteen Myths Five Myths About Nuclear Energy The 10 big energy myths
According to the publishers, Monbiot also "examines the role of the British and American governments in promoting, wittingly or otherwise, this great ecological catastrophe".
The author's foreword says this was a period when solar power was "discounted as an irrelevance", but he "confidently predicts that it will be the world's largest energy source" within his lifetime.
It presents positive stories and examples of how profit-seeking companies are helping to save the planet, and says that "the best way to rebuild America’s economy, cities and job markets is to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy resources, whether climate change is happening or not".
According to Dunn, "Enviro-Capitalism is a persuasive argument that such an environment is not that of the heavy-handed approach of state regulation but a regime of markets, private property, and rule of law." Michael E.
The Vegetarian Myth: Food, Justice, and Sustainability is a 2009 book by Lierre Keith published by PM Press.
About the book, he notably writes that "while some of the blatant errors that marked the original article were largely gone, the pessimistic – and, at times, downright doomist – framing remained, as did exaggerated descriptions that fed the doomist narrative".
Attenborough cites government intervention in Costa Rica causing deforestation to reverse, Palau's fishing regulations and improved use of land in the Netherlands as good examples.
Goodall explains how consumers can cut carbon usage by 75 percent without making drastic lifestyle changes.
Evidence A plurality of the book consists of chapters showcasing the economics of one resource or another and proposing why this resource is, for human purposes, infinite.
The book is critical of political efforts to address climate change and argues that extreme environmental changes are inevitable and unavoidable.
During the course of the 20th century, the average onsets of diseases such heart disease (9 years), respiratory disease (11 years), and cancer (8 years), have been delayed.
Environmental Principles and Policies: An Interdisciplinary Introduction is a textbook written by Professor Sharon Beder.
proper appreciation of the sources of wellbeing", among which he identifies social relationships, job satisfaction, religious belief for some, and above all a sense of meaning and purpose.
Historical precedent Simon argues that for thousands of years, people have always worried about the end of civilization brought on by a crisis of resources.
The style is accurate, but vivid and direct: The house lizards belong to a peculiar family, the Geckos, and are found even in the best-kept chambers, most frequently on the walls and ceilings, to which they cling motionless by day, being active only at night.
Sovacool, in which the authors offer detailed assessments of commercially available technologies for strengthening global energy security and climate change mitigation.
He suggests that a key measure for scientific analysis should be energy per second per gram, termed "energy rate density," and that analysis using this yardstick can be used to explain not only human evolution but cosmic evolution.
The residents do not act collectively, they do not blame the oil corporations for example, since there is a lack of confidence in their own abilities to engage in such activities.
Heaven and Earth: Global Warming – The Missing Science is a popular science book published in 2009 and written by Australian geologist, professor of mining geology at the University of Adelaide, and mining company director Ian Plimer.
In each of them the author, which visits almost every day a single square meter randomly chosen of an old-growth forest of Cumberland Plateau (Tennessee), describes what happens to plants, animals and insects living there.
According to him, Enviro-Capitalists will convince the readers that entrepreneurs, if not delayed or discouraged by the government, are able to deliver environmental quality just as they deliver necessary features of life like food, clothing, communications, health care and others.
Kirkus Reviews calls Braiding Sweetgrass a "smart, subtle overlay of different systems of thought that together teach us to be better citizens of Earth." Author Richard Powers said while listening to the audiobook of Braiding Sweetgrass on a cross-country drive, "I had to pull over several times.
Solar Energy Perspectives builds upon past analyses of solar energy deployment contained in the World Energy Outlook, Energy Technology Perspectives and several IEA Technology Roadmaps.
(2009), "Planetary Boundaries: Exploring the Safe Operating Space for Humanity" (PDF), Ecology and Society, 14 (2): 32, doi:10.5751/ES-03180-140232, hdl:10535/5421, S2CID 15182169
The police's theory was that the accused conspired to murder the victim as he was in love with his wife, the defense was that the victim was killed by a man-eating tiger.
On the latter, Luby writes:"This book makes clear that Indigenous Peoples did not form part of Canada’s affluent society after 1945.
The Indian economist and Nobel Memorial Prize winner, Amartya Sen, has argued that nations with democracy and a free press have virtually never suffered from extended famines.
Adaptations The book is accompanied by a musical project, The Outlaw Ocean Music Project, which involved around 200 musicians sampling field recordings from the book's research trips and creating a soundtrack.
Pistono is trying to construct a future society in which humans will be happy even though they will be less necessary.
The basket of goods, costing US$1,000 in 1980, fell in price by over 57 percent over the following decade.
It is written by Jørgen Randers and is a follow-up to The Limits to Growth, which in 1972 was the first worldwide report by the Club of Rome.
It follows Attenborough's career as a presenter and natural historian, along with the decline in wildlife and rising carbon emissions during the period.
The Oldest Crime The author brings to light the "oldest crime" of capitalism, which is the killing of workers by overworking as well as dangerous work conditions.
The Stanford-educated Brand, a biologist with strong artistic and social interests, believed that there was a groundswell of commitment to thoroughly renovating American industrial society along ecologically and socially just lines, whatever they might prove to be.
Since then Wild Law has been at the centre of many conferences and residential workshops: A conference based on the concept of wild law was held in November 2005 at the University of Brighton.
References to the report The report was the main scientific source for the documentary Meat The Truth, narrated by Marianne Thieme (2007).
Economy Myth Thirteen – Developing Countries are not Doing their Part in Responding to Concerns about Climate Change Contributors The book was produced with support from Oak Ridge National Laboratory and involved 24 contributing authors with a diverse range of backgrounds.
Fundamentals of Stack Gas Dispersion is a book devoted to the fundamentals of air pollution dispersion modeling of continuous, buoyant pollution plumes from stationary point sources.
Overview The book expands Solomon's National Post columns about scientists who dissented in some way from the scientific consensus on climate change.
Reception Michiko Kakutani argues in The New York Times that the book's "roots as a slide show are very much in evidence.
It was awarded the 1957 John Burroughs Medal for nature writing, which is awarded annually by the American Museum of Natural History.
Science is "under siege" in these cases because many of the researchers were told to modify their scientific reports so that commercial uses or environmentally destructive activities could continue.
Renewable Electricity and the Grid: The Challenge of Variability is a 2007 book edited by Godfrey Boyle which examines the significance of the issue of variability of renewable energy supplies in the electricity grid.
Six C's Pernick and Wilder identify six major forces, which they call the six C's, that are pushing clean technology into the mainstream and driving rapid growth and expansion: costs, capital, competition, China, consumers, and climate.
Atlas of Our Changing Environment is a series of atlases published beginning in 2005 by the United Nations Environment Programme.
Translations As far as late 2019 The Sound of a Wild Snail Eating has been translated into eleven languages.
This means that the big economic opportunities have shifted from IT (Information Technology) in recent decades to ET (renewable Environmental Technologies).
Markus thought that "the book suffers from too many analogies and dialog that often sounds contrived", but ultimately concluded that "this is an interesting work that draws surprising conclusions and illustrates the difficulties and rewards off field research".
"McPhee has the poet's knack for the telling point, the metaphor that incisively leads to greater understanding," Ruess wrote.
Synopsis Klein relays her meeting with Greta Thunberg in the opening essay in which she discusses how young people are speaking out for climate awareness and change.
Drawdown: The Most Comprehensive Plan Ever Proposed to Reverse Global Warming is a 2017 book created, written, and edited by Paul Hawken about climate change mitigation.
Sierra Club Books was the publishing division, for both adults and children, of the Sierra Club, founded in 1960 by then club President David Brower.
The book explores other aspects of the climate crisis, such as climate change denial and the corporate influence of money in politics, and ends by reasoning that it is not too late to solve the crisis.
He has written a book that sets out to support a certain point of view, and, unless you are an expert, you will never know which facts are correct and appropriately used and which are not.
The book notes "right-wing stereotypes about environmental elitism" and recommends strategies to persuade political opponents.
The book argues that pollution control and natural resource management have become critical elements of marketplace success and explains how leading-edge companies have folded environmental thinking into their core business strategies.
Five percent of the funds for said study were provided by the livestock industry, according to a press release by Mitloehner's university.
See also Scenes from the Heart – a book about Thunberg's family by her mother Malena Ernman (together with Svante Thunberg and their daughters).
Ethanol fuel alone could reach 11.5 billion US gallons (44,000,000 m3) per year by the end of the first quarter of 2009, a significant contribution to the approximately 135 billion US gallons (510,000,000 m3) of gasoline consumed annually.
In the third phase, the evolution of colonizing populations may result in speciation and/or adaptive radiation.
New paradigms In this work, Cronon demonstrated the impact on the land of the widely disparate conceptions of ownership held by Native Americans and English colonists.
Stutchbury describes the link between Latin American deforestation and the loss of food for migratory birds, and the impact of large amounts of pesticides.
The 2009 hip-hop song "The High Line" by Kinetics & One Love, inspired by The World Without Us, is a pro-green, anti-deforestation song that paints the picture of trees and plants reclaiming the buildings of New York City long after the presence of humans.
Deffeyes was a geologist who warned of the coming oil crisis in a previous book called Hubbert's Peak.
In the second and third chapters, McKibben lays out his analysis of how we have arrived at the current situation, and conveys genuine sorrow as he explains how the drive for economic growth based on hydrocarbons since the 1970s has led the planet to the point of breakdown.
He concluded that her historical research had been poor, and that she had shown fundamental misunderstandings about the nature of science.
Assadourian outlines four policies overdeveloped nations could employ to sufficiently facilitate a planned and controlled contraction of the economy so as to get back in line with planetary boundaries.
According to New Scientist, this book provides "the definitive guide to reducing your carbon footprint".
The United States, the only one of these four countries that has historically given wheat to hungry nations, is the "sole hope of the hungry nations" in the future (p.
For example, there will always be tension between the ideas of "welfare and prosperity for all" and environmental conservation, so trade-offs are necessary.
Through passages of nature writing and hundreds of watercolor paintings, the book details California's ecology and geography.
Confessions of a Recovering Environmentalist is a collection of essays by Paul Kingsnorth published in 2017.
Synopsis The book gives an approximate carbon footprint of just under 100 activities starting small, with carbon used in sending a text message, ending with the massive example of a World Cup.
Gore, Al, Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit, 2000-04-22, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, MA, hardcover, 416 pages, ISBN 0-618-05664-5.
Canada's Deadly Secret: Saskatchewan Uranium and the Global Nuclear System is a 2007 book by Jim Harding which chronicles the struggle over Saskatchewan's uranium mining, and demonstrates the negative impacts on Aboriginal rights and environmental health, and the effect of free trade.
He has worked with the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority before moving to the Open University where he is Professor of Technology Policy and has developed courses on technological innovation, focusing in particular on renewable energy technology.
The 2006 edition of the book has neither a table of contents nor an index, but can be summarized as the presentation of various positive and negative causal links, shown in the graphic with corresponding page numbers.
It details the publication of a paper by McIntyre and Ross McKitrick in 2003 which criticized MBH98, and follows with Mann and his associates' rebuttals.
Synopsis Laszlo argues that companies creating sustainable value are going beyond regulatory compliance and energy conservation.
David Pearce of The Economic Journal criticized the book for, in his view, not presenting a persuasive argument for tradeable permits, inasmuch as only one significant example of their application to water quality, and that a not very successful one, was cited.
Rubin is the author of The Green Crusade, a 1998 book which questions the scientific basis for claims and predictions made by environmentalists, specifically naming Rachel Carson and Paul Erlich.
It traces the history of scientific discoveries that led to the current scientific opinion on climate change.
The book details Eskom's systematic downfall through political meddling of the ruling ANC party, to organised syndicates who looted, pillaged and stole from the state utility.
funds were diverted to launch a punk-style zine called "Live Wild or Die", which among other things espoused anarchism and attacked Foreman's and Abbey's views on some controversial issues then being debated within EF.
Renewable Electricity and the Grid presents technical and operational solutions to the problem of reconciling the differing patterns of power supply and demand.
Scorched ponders the morality of the changes mankind has wrought, as well as the future of life on Earth.
Furthermore, Débora Swistun lived most of her life in Flammable and thus personally experienced the environmental sufferings and other changes taking place there.
Overview This book is an expansion of a lecture which Lawson gave in 2006 to the Centre for Policy Studies, a think tank with links to the Conservative Party.
Losing Earth: A Recent History (published as Losing Earth: The Decade We Could Have Stopped Climate Change in the UK and Commonwealth markets) is a 2019 book written by Nathaniel Rich.
Living in the Hothouse also offers a critical overview of the Howard government's policy response to climate change in Australia.
Brand explains that Lovelock changed his mind because of two things: he read a book, The Climate Caper, by Garth Paltridge, and he read a paper by Dr.
In National Review, Alex Trembath generally praised the book, writing that "despite the flaws", "Shellenberger ...
He finds the Chinese the most noticeable of the people, while in one square mile of forest he found 700 species of beetles including 130 longhorns.
Emery argued that the analysis in the change of relationship between the US and the Middle Eastern oil producers in the 1970s is "quite narrow".
Because we have learned to make new materials for the greater convenience of mankind, we have produced chemical toxins that have saturated our soil and water.
Contents Serpent River Resurgence characterizes the uranium industry at Elliot Lake as a form of "Cold War colonialism," given the connection between mining in the area and American nuclear weapons production and the impacts of the industry on the Serpent River First Nation.
Reception David Dunham reviewed Why Big Fierce Animals Are Rare for Different Worlds magazine and stated that "I strongly recommend Why Big Fierce Animals Are Rare.
Part I is a current history and investigation into why people believe renewable energy technologies will benefit humanity and the planet, and why that belief system is highly suspect and even detrimental despite the fact that fossil fuels yield negative consequences as well.
This a must-read book for those who want a primer on all the key solutions countries will be considering at Copenhagen.
So, a long list", and describes Mann as a "scientist-turned-climate-warrior." References Oreskes, N.
These include the businesses Casas Bahia, Patrimonio Hoy, Bank of Madura, Aravind Eye Hospital, Jaipur rugs and Project Shakti and how they were founded.
In addition to elucidating the impacts of the uranium industry on the local environment, the book documents the efforts of Serpent River residents, including elders, to be heard by government and industry officials.
See also Wildlife conservation Wildlife of Canada References External links States of Nature on Google Books
Trends affecting demands for water The report's authors forecast that the need for water would double within 50 years, due to global population rise, more people choosing to eat a diet of meat and vegetables rather than primarily consuming cereals, and climate change.
It contrasts the reality between the "CEOs and upper management" drawing "multimillion dollar salaries and 'golden parachutes'" as against the reality of the production workers living in packed dormitories and often facing sweatshop conditions.
A further 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where there is insufficient human capacity or financial resources for people to effectively make use of the water that is available.
Beyond the Limits is a 1992 book continuing the modeling of the consequences of a rapidly growing global population that was started in the 1972 report The Limits to Growth.
The main basis of his technology extrapolation for computers is Moore's Law, one of the greatest successes of Trend estimation in predicting human progress.
In one of the book's themes, Gingrich and Maple argue that environmental efforts shouldn't be exclusive to one political philosophy and reject the idea that free enterprise and a cleaner world are opposing forces.
Maralinga: Australia's Nuclear Waste Cover-up is a book by Alan Parkinson about the clean-up of the British atomic bomb test site at Maralinga in South Australia, published in 2007.
Philip's in the Hills Episcopal Church in Tucson, followed a month later by a memorial service at St.
Sustainable Value: How the World's Leading Companies Are Doing Well by Doing Good is a book by Chris Laszlo published in 2008 by Stanford University Press (US) and Greenleaf Publishing Ltd.
Background Indian writer Amitav Ghosh delivered a series of lectures on what he perceived was the lack of coverage of climate change in contemporary fiction at the University of Chicago in 2015.
She also deepened the scientific aspects of her small guest's natural history, and became aware of the richness of its existence.
Hard Choices received favorable reviews in academic journals including Great Plains Research: A Journal of Natural and Social Sciences, Environmental Reviews, Annals of the Association of American Geographers, and Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society.
Witherow, a mysterious and haunted old man of 86, shares the troubling story of his life from birth to age 20, when he left Nortonville.
The book contrasts this with the ecological costs of growing food in factory farms, transporting it thousands of miles, and adding chemical preservatives so it will not spoil.
The book is critical of organizations like the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) who, it claims, are driven by political and financial agendas rather than environmentalism.
He often calls his small observation field mandala, inspired by the paintings of sand created by Tibetan as a support for meditation.
Half Gone: Oil, Gas, Hot Air and the Global Energy Crisis is a book by former oil geologist Jeremy Leggett about both oil depletion and global warming.
In 2009, the BBC broadcast a television follow-up series of the same name, with Stephen Fry replacing the late Adams.
His book argues that The Pentagon and its military planning for WW III promoted "catastrophic environmentalism" by funding environmental science in the Cold War after WW II.
The defining moments for Foreman, according to the book, were when some activists under the Earth First!
The book largely focuses on the history of two federal agencies, the Bureau of Reclamation and the U.S.
Sense of place: a response to an environment: the Swan Coastal Plain, Western Australia is a 1972 book by George Seddon.
