Beginning with that sale and continuing throughout the campaign, Fairey used proceeds from selling the image to produce more; after first printing, he made 4,000 more that were distributed at Obama rallies before Super Tuesday.
During its recovery the last buildings — the tent-like church of Saint Martinian (1641), a two-tented barbican church (1650), and a bell-tower (1680) — were added to the complex.
Blackboard chalk, typically used in educational settings, is shorter and thinner than sidewalk chalk.
Urban folklore has it that cyclists on round-island trips will make a pit stop there, where they will take photos with the lamp post, and leave their favourite stickers behind.
He had over 8 years of experience in various kind of communication design projects in the industry as well as his own startup, Digital Moustache.
Wildstyle has drawn inspiration from traditional calligraphy and has been described by some as partially abstract but does have specific traits associated with the form.
The Steppe Geoglyphs are a number of earth constructions in the Turgai Trough area of Turgai in northern Kazakhstan.
Notable examples have been made by many different Australian Aboriginal cultures, and in many cases are thought to be associated with spiritual ceremonies.
In a 2001 exercise, an attempt was made to transport a large stone along a land and sea route from Wales to Stonehenge.
René kept the gallery open into 1999, when he and Joanne were pressured out of their long-time Wooster Street space.
From right to left are Madam Governor and her two daughters (Shiyi Niang and Shisan Niang), along with nine maidservants.
Undisturbed stones are found usually arranged in parallel pairs of between eight and fourteen lattes framing a rectangular space.
In July 2020, the S was trademarked in the United States as "The S Thing" by a man who had no involvement in its creation.
In contrast to conventional graffiti styles that emerged in 1970s New York, Brazilian pichação was inspired by blackletter typefaces and runic style lettering that were commonly used on record sleeves by popular heavy metal bands in the 1980s.
See also Cultural depictions of cats Fathom (art installation), another temporary art installation in Portland Wildwood: Follow the Crows (2026) References External links "Coraline's Curious Cat Trail descends upon downtown Portland".
By 1984, Knight had discovered Slab City – a transient and retiree commune – and decided to leave a 'small monument' out of concrete and paint.
Kissing Students (Estonian: Suudlevad tudengid) is a sculpture and fountain located in Raekoja plats, Tartu, Estonia.
During the coronation festivities accompanying the crowning of the Kings of Hungary in the city between 1563 and 1830, wine was usually poured into the town fountains.
The carved limestone depicts the Roman goddess Diana seated and surrounded by fish, cattails and a unicorn.
Such graffiti/street artists as Keith Haring, Shepard Fairey, Above, Mint&Serf, Futura 2000, Os Gemeos, and Faile among others have successfully transcended their street art aesthetic beyond the walls of urban landscape and onto walls of private and corporate clients.
With this victory and the blood spilled by the friendship of the Korean and Soviet people became even stronger.
Jodi Magness also states that during the 4th century Jewish places of worship represented “the Garden of Eden or Paradise, a place where heaven and earth were united”.
The foundation stone was laid by Brigadier General Sir William Henry Manning, Governor of Ceylon on December 7, 1921, and was unveiled by him October 27, 1923 at the Galle Face Green and was known as the Victory tower.
It is in the building of these systems that Herodes Atticus had become in essence a civil engineer with expertise in water supply.
Controversy On 26 January 2020, Headache Stencil came under controversy for his statements on Twitter targeting Chinese people, which read "Hey Chink!
He launched Portals in collaboration with fellow journalist Michelle Moghtader and Iranian artist Sohrab Kashani.
Moreover, there are some challenges in fabricating and applying graphene oxide based nanofilters for water desalination.
Alyce McGovern highlights that a possible reason for this is that yarn bombing is often done by white middle-class women and it is seen as harmless fun; it is deemed more as street art and less as graffiti (which is enforced much more strictly).
Invurt maintains news of exhibitions and events, interviews and photography of street art across Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia.
The individual figures, however, indicate marked deterioration from the expressive detail of the murals of Seti I's mortuary temple.
The Lovers is a public art work by artist Mark di Suvero located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The piece also questioned whether the performance – or the document of the performance – was the actual artwork.
The St Pancras piano is part of a wider phenomenon of public pianos in the UK, influenced by initiatives such as artist Luke Jerram's "Play me, I'm yours" installation, which began in 2008.
See also Presencia de América Latina References External links Description of the work in www.portaldearte.cl (in Spanish) Ojo con el Arte - 1990 - Murales de Concepción (YouTube video in Spanish).
The initial concept for the southernmost end of the project included the Crenshaw Monument, a 120-foot-tall (6.1 m) totem that spells out Crenshaw in giant letters.
These geoglyphs form different geometric patterns and appear in several shapes, and are up to 13 ft (4m) deep.
The constructions Many or all of them consist of smaller earthworks (mounds, trenches, and ramparts) arranged with each other to make geometric and other shapes (composite figures).
Even the deity syllables are removed in a specific order along with the rest of the geometry until at last the mandala has been dismantled to show impermanence.
Its vasque had a circle of gas lamps which shone on the cascading water, making it one of the first fountains to be illuminated.
Graffiti is often seen as a form of territory, and once it premiers on a location it invites others to participate in the act of vandalism.
The festival has since exhibited in 17 cities worldwide with the purpose of city beautification and community building.
The technical procedure for sgraffito is relatively simple, resembling the process of painting frescoes.
Vallauri's (anonymous) stencils were published in France since 1982 and had a larger impact on the New Yorker and later Polish stencil graffiti movements around David Wojnarowicz and Thomaz Sikorski.
See also List of public art in Baltimore Fort McHenry References External links http://monumentcity.net/2009/03/02/armistead-monument-at-fort-mchenry-baltimore-md/
Cirio overlaid the auction prices on the images to sell them as digital artworks on the website Art-Derivatives.com [31] for a fraction of the value set at the auctions.
There is a bridge over the stream next to the southern carriageway of H3, and an underpass links this bridge to the cows' field.
In 1996, a new article published in an engineering magazine offered a new interpretation, according to which the pucara might be a ritual site and an astronomical observatory, not a fortress.
By the middle of the Bristol trail over 1,000,000 sculptures had been ticked off using the app, which also allowed visitors to complete special trails, learn about the sculptures and artists, and earn interactive trophies.
Recognition Facter is noted for his advocacy of street art and graffiti in Australia, he has written articles on street art in Australia, as well as on issues of copyright.
Fine granules that have been rounded by the natural influences of seas, rivers or fluvials, in turn negatively influence the bonding between the individual granules as they more easily slide past each other.
Sunpendulum is an art, science and technology project devised by Austrian media artist Kurt Hofstetter.
The contaminants, chlorinated ethylenes (PCE and TCE), were removed, leaving, for the most part, fully dechlorinated groundwater (little vinyl chloride was observed).
It houses four traditional Meitei watercraft, including two hiyang hirens (Royal racing boats) and two tanna his (commoners' racing boats).
Turkey added Asu Ceren, Cuneyt Celik, Cooper, Dünya Atay, Eskreyn, Iberoptik, Flypropaganda, Fu, Funk, Goksu Gul, Jellyfishandroyale, Kmr, Küf Project, Levent Bozkurt, Mekazoo, Miray özcan, Nnuka, Omeria, Pet05, Shione, Sesin çıksın, Tabone, Techone, Yeni Anıt, Zoe, Wicx, and Choma.
While POWWOW shares the name of the Native American Pau Wau gathering, the festival's name originates combining the "Pow" of comic book action bubbles with the "WOW" of a reader's reaction.
It debuted publicly in Rotterdam in February 2007 and went on to be exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) and Tate Modern, among other venues.
Nymphaeum was the general name throughout the Mediterranean for an ornate structure that terminated an aqueduct bringing water from distant elevated terrain, say a stream or copious springs.
The selected site at the corner of Wingrove Avenue and Station Streets has enabled us to design a work of monumental scale which will have a strong presence, provide a unifying focus and become a landmark identified with Fairfield.
On the westside of the country, some younger stones (from the fourteenth to sixteenth centuries), have been found in three areas: Luss, Inchcailloch, and Loch Lomond, and Glendaruel.
(2020) indicate that soil samples predating the geoglyph are approximately 7,000 years old (AD ±4980).
They are of a monumental scale with several of the individual blocks weighing over 5 long tons (5 t).
Construction of the fountain began in 1929 by architect Pavia Høegh (1886-1956), the grandfather of artist Aka Høegh.
Cigarette is a public artwork by United States artist Tony Smith, located on the grounds of the Albright Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, NY.
Rists repeatedly sings "I'm not the girl who misses much", a reference to the first line of the song "Happiness Is a Warm Gun" by the Beatles.
The corporation produced the Sarasota Chalk Festival, a cultural event designed to celebrate the sixteenth century performance art of Italian street painting.
In traditional Persian architecture, a howz (Persian: حوض) is a centrally positioned symmetrical axis pool.
Fontaine du Printemps, Square Calmette, (1932), Paul Manaut and Gilbert Privat, sculptors Fontaine Jean-Moulin, Square Jean-Moulin, porte de Châtillon, (1957).
The installation work was carried out by the French technical expert Matias Richet and a Peruvian architect, surnamed Salazar, was in charge of the construction of the stone plinth.
On 23 August, at the height of the Battle of Tripoli, NTC rebels breached the Bab al-Azizia compound and international news stations broadcast pictures of rebels gathered around the statue, with one fighter having climbed onto it.
Sculpture gardens may also vary greatly in size and scope, either featuring the collected works of multiple artists, or the artwork of a single individual.
"Duncombe's Dog" In settlement of his gambling debts in 1778, Jennings was forced to sell the sculpture, stating "A fine dog it was, and a lucky dog was I to purchase it".
The sculptures differ from common garden statues by virtue of their original intent as well as designs which were meant to be embedded into a masonry wall.
However, it has been speculated that they might have been on the left pillar and the lesene to the right of the fresco.
French 16th-century gardens in the Ile-de-France were generally in flat terrain that did not lend itself to elaborate jeux d'eau.
Sir William Blackstone is a bronze statue by Paul Wayland Bartlett of the English legal scholar William Blackstone.
Seeking investment in YrWall, the entrepreneurs were successful in gaining £50,000 for 40% of the YrWall parent company Lumacoustics from Dragons Deborah Meaden and Peter Jones.
In November 2018 Laura Alarcón Rapu, the Governor of Easter Island, asked the British Museum to return the statue.
The cost of demolishing the prison, and thus the budget for the artwork, was estimated at somewhere between one and three million dollars.
This cornfield was stewarded by Lauren Bon and a large team of collaborators and volunteers for a full agricultural cycle in 2005 – 2006.
On 8 April 2000 a memorial plate dedicated to American pilots whose aircraft was brought down on 8 April 1950 by the USSR Air Forces near Liepāja was added to the pedestal of the monument.
The Statehouse was built in 1888 and remains one of the most important Neo-Classical Revival buildings in the state of Indiana.
Bollywood Art Project (BAP) is an urban art project started in 2012 in Mumbai, India in memoir of popular Hindi Cinema of Bollywood.
Instead of allowing the work to undergo further degradation, the monks began approaching art dealers, hoping to sell it.
By the time the Tower was fully restored in September 2017, the 1950s surgery center the stairwell had once attached to had been demolished and a new hospital building had been constructed.
In the introduction to the book, Ellis noted that US photographer Charles Gatewood had written to him and sent him photographs of similar stencil graffiti that had recently appeared in New York City, leading Ellis to speculate that: ...
Each year, the theme refers to a social issue that is applicable to all and makes both the artists and the audience look at these social issues in new and transformative ways.
More than 3,000 VIPs from the world of politics, business and culture took part in the opening ceremony.
In addition to his diligent practice of painting and calligraphy, Pan also delved into music and poetry.
"More on Hoa Hakananai'a: Paint, petroglyphs, and a sledge, and the independent value of archaeological and historical evidence" (PDF).
It first arrived at UMMA as a long-term loan in 2008, helping to celebrate the museum's new Maxine and Stuart Frankel and the Frankel Family Wing.
The project The name of the project, Djerbahood, was imposed to the organizers by the giant letters THE HOOD installed by Rodolphe Cintorino at the entrance of the village, also known as El Hara Sghira or "the small neighborhood" in Arabic.
In 1962, Hunt was the youngest artist exhibited at the Seattle World's Fair, and in 1971, Hunt became the first African-American sculptor to receive a retrospective exhibition of his work at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
On 11 and 12 September 2010, the Berenkuil was the stage for the international graffiti festival "Step In The Arena", which was held again on 9 and 10 July 2011.
However, in the opinion of the monument's creators, the aid was of the wrong kind: barely-edible canned food, instead of weapons.
It was built to commemorate the arrival of Konev's 1st Ukrainian Front, namely the Fourth Tank Army led by Lelyushenko, on 9 May 1945, ending the German occupation of Prague.
See also Continuum sculpture Delta Solar List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 2 References Further reading "Fabricating a soaring symbol of the space age {Richard Lippold's Ad astra}." AIA Journal 65, (October 1976): Art Index Retrospective: 1929–1984 (H.
They didn't reflect the light of the sun from any possible viewing angles on the street, but the artist worked with them as well, using morse code to embed messages in the window grids.
Zhang Guanghua (China Merchants Bank's vice president) were appointed as the chairman and Vice Chairman of Wing Lung Bank respectively.
Art exhibition "Best Before" in Lunchmoney Gallery, Aarhus, Denmark 2012 Street Art The New Generation, Brandts Museum of Art, Odense.
His photographic records resulted in the video Arte Para Todos, shown at the International São Paulo Biennial in 1977.
The architectural sculpture was created for the Milwaukee Fire Department station at the intersection of 103rd Street and Fond du Lac Avenue.
The Family is a public art work by artist Joseph Puccetti that depicts an abstract man, woman and child encircled by a ring.
Social sculpture and political art ART/MEDIA operated as a museum without walls with an office located in the historical Kimo Theater on Route 66.
Zygielbojm11 May 1943 London The monument is part of the Memorial Route of Jewish Martyrdom and Struggle, leading from the intersection of Anielewicza and Zamenhofa Streets and the Monument to the Ghetto Heroes, to the Umschlagplatz Monument.
In architecture, and specifically Gothic architecture, a gargoyle () is a carved or formed grotesque with a spout designed to convey water from a roof and away from the side of a building, thereby preventing it from running down masonry walls and eroding the mortar between.
The construction intent document was submitted to the Senior Associate University Architect and Director of IUPUI Project Development in June 2004 and the final bid document was issued in June 2006.
The artwork is located in a small park near Third and Walker Streets in the Walker's Point neighborhood.
An aqueduct of 74 m on the north side of the spur would have to reach the sources of the Kladeos in Erymanthos, near Mageiras at 3.5 km from Olympia.
The image shows one example with a phallus portrayed with wings and the feet of an animal, and a phallus for a tail.
When another user comes within range of an RFID-tagged object, the associated graffiti is downloaded onto their mobile device.
They stated that the theme was open to interpretation as long as the finished work would supply birds with water.
The name by which the beach is actually known comes from a nearby cave where it seems that Hotu Matu’a could have been installed while building a house for him.
In a small city forest threatened by urban planners, a 200-pound revolver welded in iron was chained to one of the trees, carrying the stencil text: “My Ancestors Went Hunting in These Woods”.
The owner, Baron Emile d'Erlanger, donated the canvases to the Spanish state in 1881, and they are now on display at the Museo del Prado.
Transportation Since the island was largely treeless by the time the Europeans first visited, the movement of the statues was a mystery for a long time.
Some hydraulophones include an underwater hydrophone pickup to allow the sounds produced by the water to be electrically amplified.
was founded in 2010 by Denise Kowal as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation, based in Sarasota, Florida in the United States.
History Whitaker Wright The statues were amongst the property of the celebrated fraudster Whitaker Wright.
For example, the stone arrangement at Wurdi Youang consists of about 100 stones arranged in an egg-shaped oval about 50 metres (160 ft) across.
Transporting of water was usually completed using clay jars, used by many of the residents, and only replaced in the 20th century by the typical plastic bottles.
In New York City, the artists put up thousands of fliers, and activists posted them in Berlin, Lisbon, and Buenos Aires.
It was undertaken as an experiment in change, decay and rebirth, and by 2000, had largely disappeared into a landscape of overgrown vegetation.
Biography Ball was born in Waterloo, Iowa, where he was influenced by his mother's role as a theater director, while Nogues, from Buenos Aires, was inspired by his father's work in aerospace engineering.
George Washington (bust by Houdon) is a public artwork that is a limited edition copy of an original work by French neoclassical sculptor Jean Antoine Houdon that is on display inside the Indiana Statehouse, which is located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.
Wang NewCity Chicago, Eye Exam Group dynamics Michael Workman SF Bay Guardian, Business as unusual Artist collectives make the personal political in Peer Pleasure 2 By Katie Kurtz Smart Museum Exhibit, University of Chicago, 2002
Floyd has completed several public art works in Melbourne including at the Docklands and for the Eastlink Motorway.
The states with the most hillside letters are: Montana: 130 monograms California: 83 monograms Utah: 94 monograms Arizona: 63 monograms Nevada: 47 monograms Oregon: 39 monograms Idaho: 36 monograms United States Arizona California Colorado At least 31 monograms, possibly 33.
In 2007, the trout was repainted and restored and in 2012 the work was refurbished to celebrate the centenary of the Snowy River Shire.
It demonstrate how to succeed without being located by dogs, and when not to run to avoid being shot.
A sequencing fountain is an ornamental fountain that cycles through a series of patterns of water flow under the control of a programmable control unit.
The coarse particles return to the mill for re-grinding while the finer products are passed on to a subsequent stage of treatment.
Among other things, the project explores the function of art as gift and the effect of a gift economy on creative productivity.
See also List of attractions and monuments in Stanley Park Public art in Vancouver References External links Sculpture wearing a Canucks jersey with white towel.
Iyengar was a guest of the Garfinkels when he visited Philadelphia in 1976 and gave a public demonstration of yoga at Haverford College.
This is a list of colossal statues and other sculptures that were created, mostly or all carved, and remain in situ.
Form is known for projects that often span several years (see below), and for its ability to generate innovative partnerships with industry and corporate sponsors including Wesfarmers and BHP Billiton.
Commercial vessels are sized to accommodate the flow rate of water and range up to 14 feet in diameter.
In February 2017 the robot's creator, an Italian artist known as "Norma Jeane", lost contact with ShyBot.
In the construction stage of modeling the statue, Armando also made the decision to resize it to a height of 17 meters, apart from the base.
See also List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 6 References External links Media related to Alexander Robey Shepherd (statue) at Wikimedia Commons
The Laykyun Sekkya statue depicts a standing Gautama Buddha next to a reclining statue of Gautama Buddha, depicting the scene of Mahaparinirvana (Mahaparinibbana).
He soon started travelling the world, and in London people have mistaken Dolk's works for being art by Banksy.
A Ranney Collector is a type of radial well used to extract water from an aquifer with direct connection to a surface water source like a river or lake.
Artist information Jill Sebastian got her inspiration at a young age when she saw a woman painting a mural depicting labor strikes.
An undated menu from his restaurant is labeled as "Don the Beachcomber's Delectable Thirty", which states "this souvenir menu is available at fifty cents".
The first was a 2009 addition next to the statue of a wave crashing down over the Kook, carrying a wire mesh outline of another surfer about to knock the Kook off his board.
On the federal level, since 1963 the General Services Administration has maintained the Art in Architecture Program, which allocates one-half of one percent of construction cost for art projects.
Genna Panzarella, the first woman to receive Italy's honorable Maestra Madonnari title at the International Grazi di Curtatone competition, participated as well as Vera Bugatti, who also holds the Maestra Madonnari title.
She was a student of well-known artists such as William Forsyth, Alexander Archipenko and Lorado Taft, who she worked on Fountain of Time with.
In 2018, the Photobooth traveled across the United States for Inside Out Vote, with 6,185 portraits, which was to awaken a sense of empowerment and provide voter registration groups a unique platform to register, energize and empower voters in communities throughout the U.S.
Biography Vallauri moved to Brazil with his family, settling first in the seaside town of Santos, where he trained the technique of engraving - depicting people in the port of Santos - and later to the state capital.
He was able to visit Salvation Mountain for the last time in May 2013; the visit was recorded by KPBS (TV).
See also Australia's big things List of world's largest roadside attractions Timbertown References External links Australian Big Things
Issa Rae spoke at the groundbreaking ceremony at the end of Black History Month on February 29, 2020.
Public art is art in any media that has been planned and executed with the intention of being staged in the physical public domain.
Backwash steps can be implemented using air and/or water to disrupt the biomat and recover flow whenever possible.
The topic of the procession was used to emphasize theatrical or satirical aspects; in this respect the picture has parallels to The Burial of the Sardine, painted between 1812 and 1819.
Over the following years, some trees were replaced due to deer damage, and stone was laid in the floor to echo the cross ribs and support beams of the cathedral.
About the artist Based out of Erie, Pennsylvania, Wyten's work focuses on the abstract steel sculpture.
The sculpture is an abstract form made of several steel bars oriented diagonally to the ground; it is rust-colored and installed on the lawn.
Completed globes were mounted along bicycle trails in Grant Park north of the Field Museum of Natural History, on Navy Pier, and along Michigan Avenue.
Awards and recognition 2025 Texas State Artist for Sculpture: One of Texas's highest artistic honors, awarded by the Texas Commission on the Arts.
Impact on politics While the immediate impact of street art on policy changes or political decision-making can be hard to measure, the art form's influence in shaping political discourse is undeniable.
Due to its complexity, wildstyle can be difficult to read for those unfamiliar with the form and process.
The Kongo cosmogram, a core symbol in Bakongo religion of the Kôngo people, represents man's origin, destiny, and path to salvation.
Viral phenomenon and public reaction The graffiti’s image quickly spread across various Serbian social media platforms, attracting a mixture of humorous reactions, satire, and criticism.
The project made public the list of all the companies registered in the Cayman Islands for the first time, exposing tax evasion practices by counterfeiting Certificate of Incorporation documents signed with his name.
Here are some photos of different types: Notes References Aquaculture Network Information Biology of the nitrogen cycle By Hermann Bothe, Stuart John Ferguson, William Edward Newton
Measuring 220 by 930 centimetres (87 by 366 in), Dublin's Last Supper is printed on vitreous enamel covering nine steel panels installed along Bloom Lane, part of the Millennium Walkway.
As Gaudí had created other flooring for the Casa Milà (namely an also-hexagonal parquet of oak and poplar), the tiles were only laid in less important rooms.
In Shaivism, the concept pictorially symbolises the transcendence of all duality including gender, with the spiritual lacking any distinctions, where energy and power (Shakti, Parvati) is unified and is inseparable with the soul and awareness (Brahman, Shiva).
The monument was redesigned in 1959 before an anticipated visit by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev, which was ultimately canceled.
Themes The Kalachakra Mandala for instance, contains 722 deities portrayed within the complex structure and geometry of the mandala itself.
The earliest are associated with the Pit Grave culture of the Pontic–Caspian steppe (and therefore with the Proto-Indo-Europeans according to the mainstream Kurgan hypothesis).
On the grounds of Yuzi Paradise (or 'Fool's Paradise') is also the Hotel of Modern Art." Wuhu Sculpture Park, Wuhu City, Anhui Province, China Zobon City Sculpture Garden, Shanghai More sculpture parks in China—listed on Birkbeck, University of London page You can add them in this section.
Epicenter is a public art work by artist Ernest Carl Shaw located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
William Moreau, a partner in the firm, stated, "He [Welsh] was instrumental in the growth of our firm....We wanted to try to establish a permanent memorial to him" (qtd.
A moon is on the proper front, a troll-like creature is on the proper left, a full sun is on the proper back, and a man with a long beard is on the proper right.
Trakas described the condition of the peninsula when he first saw it in a New York Times article with : “When I got here it was totally overgrown.
Some were in walls while others were found in the foundations (which were often re-used by the Victorians for their new buildings).
This time period may have been projected to end sometime between 7.3.0.0.0 and 7.5.0.0.0 — 295 and 256 BCE, respectively.
Crawford created a companion set of bronze doors for the House wing of the Capitol, the Revolutionary War Door.
Hebrew inscription:שמואל זיגלבוים (1895 – 1943), נציג הבונד במועצה הלאומי[ת] של ממשלת פולין הגולה בלונדון.
Each of the 15 cultural gems was choreographed, by five theatre makers: Peter Hayes, Natalie Fisher, Fiona du Plooy, Celeste Botha and Sensei Ndlovu.
The center claims that they look for inclusion of the Chicano student and seeks to create spaces to inspire the celebration of culture.
The Detroit Chimera Graffiti Mural is a mural by artist Kobie Solomon on the west-facing wall of the Russell Industrial Center's building number two located at 1600 Clay Avenue in Detroit, Michigan.
Elms were the main specimens used, along with pines, junipers, cypresses, and bamboos; plums were the favored fruit trees, along with peaches and oranges.
Artists featured include up-and-coming talents as well as established street artists from different cities around the world.
The 35 Snowdogs include designs based on, amongst others, ash trees, from which Ashford derives its name; a Kentish oast house, the Ashford coat of arms, the infinity symbol (invented by an Ashfordian), and a dog decorated by Mr Doodle (Sam Cox).
In collaboration with Alessandro Ludovico and Ubermorgen, Cirio created the project Amazon Noir to criticize the abuse of copyright laws for digital content misappropriated by private corporations.
After completing The Minute Man in 1875, French studied sculpture in Florence, Italy, for a year, during part of which he worked out of Thomas Ball's studio.
The fountains were fed by reservoirs in the upper garden, while the Samson fountain was fed by a specially-constructed aqueduct four kilometers in length.
Since December 1st 2016 the Monochrome Rose streetcar by Pipilotti Rist has served as a connection between the artworks along the 6.5-kilometre route connecting Cornavin and Bernex.
The work consists of 20 illuminated fiberglass canopies that provide light and also serve as shelter for users during inclement weather.
Joe McNamara Joe McNamara is noted in Ireland for a series of protests against Anglo-Irish Bank and the government's handling of the Irish financial crisis.
Rist had already submitted her project idea to the authorities in 2009, but it was not until seven years later that she was awarded the contract: "When I submitted it, there were hardly any themed or advertising streetcars.
Keim's focus on carefully preparing the painting ground came from his study of older frescos and their state of preservation.
Buddy Bears are painted, life-size fiberglass bear sculptures developed by German businesspeople Klaus and Eva Herlitz, in cooperation with sculptor Roman Strobl.
The two vertical arms of the sculpture evoke the religious scene of Moses holding the tablet of the Ten Commandments in his outstretched arms.
Besides being made of earth dug out and piled up, some of the geoglyphs are made by placing stones next to each other.
He collaborated with governments and businesses, to produce works ranging from small murals to large-scale installations on buildings, industrial structures, and canvas.
"Not A Cornfield" was a 2005 art project that transformed a 32-acre (130,000 m2) industrial brownfield (today part of Los Angeles State Historic Park in the historic center of Los Angeles) into a cornfield for one agricultural cycle.
Pre-Hispanic Cemetery 33°36′39.94″S 70°45′15.81″W Two cemeteries were also found at the foot of the hill, presumably diaguita-Inca, separated from each other by approximately 600 metres (2,000 ft).
1 in 2014, an artwork consisting of 45 kilograms (99 lb) of 18-carat rose gold, 18-carat palladium white gold in rod and pipe form, golden wires and leaves.
Women’s artwork Women in the Asir region are traditionally responsible for plastering and painting the walls, corridors, and ceilings of their homes.
Artificial waterfalls were popular in Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, including the famous waterfall in Viktoriapark in Berlin.
Switching devices Decorative fountain systems employ fluid amplifiers to generate their decorative displays and effects.
In all, there are four feathered serpents (two from the Wagner Collection) that accompany nine plants each.
Locals have nicknamed Magic Carpet Ride as The Cardiff Kook, a pejorative name popularized by the local surfing community.
Street art in Melbourne These are the examples for how council of Melbourne allows artists to show their talents to the world.
References External links Official Invurt website Official Irikanji website Archived 7 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine Damn It!
The tomb of Tommaso Pellegrini, an important figure who in his 1492 will stipulated that his burial take place in the family chapel, is on the left wall.
The mountain is a popular hiking spot, which has seen a surge in the number of ascensions in recent years.
Background On December 6, 1917, almost 2000 people were killed by the accidental explosion of the French ammunition ship Mont-Blanc in Halifax Harbour.
The Blue Trees is a performance and installation artwork by the artist Konstantin Dimopoulos that uses a colour transformation to provoke discussion about global deforestation.
Performance assessment The key component for assessing the success of a PRB is whether it satisfactorily removes the contaminants.
Disciplines Much of the work is multidisciplinary and intermedial, combining art forms or creating works that are hard to classify.
Tuymans has made about fifty site-specific murals since the mid-1990s, five permanent and the rest temporarily created for exhibitions.
The project has expanded to paint murals over different metropolitan city spaces around India, and has completed an international project in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
In 2024, the team presented I'm Fine, a sculpture exceeding 2,000 pounds constructed from street signs damaged by bullets and shrapnel collected from across Ukraine.
The work "Spray" is a twist on the iconic picture taken by Eddie Adams during the Vietnam War where general Nguyễn Ngọc Loan executes the Vietcong prisoner of war Nguyễn Văn Lém with a head shot.
It is also an attempt to trace the patterns, tendencies and future moorings of visual art through its current traits,".
Some have been carefully built as astronomically aligned models whilst others have been examples of artistic expression or tourist attractions.
After graduating, he lived in New York City's Chelsea district and worked as a carpenter, while producing abstract sculpture and drawings, often focused on interactions between man-made structures and landscape.
Three net structures hang from the ceiling under skylights designed to cast shadows of the nets on the floor.
More recently, some Australian Christian groups, including those at universities, have run evangelistic campaigns whose promotion involved chalking "Eternity", after Stace's fashion, on footpaths.
See also: Broken Window Theory Removal methods Governments take different approaches to graffiti removal, often depending on their resources.
He studied ceramics and sculpture at East Carolina University, where he received his Bachelor of Fine Arts in 1982.
Günther has created numerous other projects that explore the intersection of art, science, and politics.
The square sections around each face is 2' in length by 2' in width All of the faces are circular and the same size, measuring about 6” in diameter.
Nowadays, these Berlin Buddy Bears are exclusively presented on private premises, in front of hotels and embassies, as well as in the foyers of various office buildings.
No set of Romanesque murals has been preserved intact; some have been altered or restored at later dates, while some have faded significantly.
Selection of permanent works Skulptur på Blågårds Plads, (1912–16) (Kai Nielsen) Artemisspringvandet (1934), Hans Tavsens Park af Johannes C.
Moose in the City was a public art display in the year 2000 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada organized by the municipal government, which throughout the city placed 326 life-sized moose sculptures that had been decorated by local artists.
In the subsequent decade, she won mural commissions in the Bay Area and Los Angeles and California Arts Council awards; she also taught art at a SoMA mental health center.
Oscillation 2020 Oscillation is a traveling interactive installation that uses sight, sound, and movement to spark community activity and social interaction through play.
The mural depicts various scenes from the history of Puerto Rico with references to the popular culture, arts and folklore of the island.
Gallery Medieval Britain There are several types of graffiti found in British buildings dating from the Middle Ages.
It had been designed to challenge media coverage that sensationalized a rash of murders of women by the so-called Hillside Strangler; the tone of the press coverage seemed geared to heighten the climate of fear which reinforced the image of women as victims.
En Torno al Simbolismo del Pucara de Chena, Diseño Urbano y Paisaje, Universidad Central Facultad de Arquitectura, Urbanismo y Paisaje, Centro de Estudios Arquitectónicos, Urbanísticos y del Paisaje.
Description A caisson is constructed of reinforced concrete and installed into sand or gravel below the surface level of an adjacent river or lake.
Men's magazines of the era based in New York provided regular work, including Gent, Dude, Nugget and Cheri.
Three Weeks in January, was an anti-rape performance based on her landmark 1977 project; this time the map was installed prominently on the Los Angeles Police Department's main campus.
Exhibitions Ünal's work has been exhibited with a number of solo and group exhibitions: 2021 Pop-up group exhibition, PG Art Gallery, Istanbul.
The museum is a semi-dome structure in the mountain that contains several small items given to him by friends and visitors.
See also Utah monolith References External links Official website Photo gallery by Walter De Maria "Walter de Maria 'Lightning Field'".
Biofilms and algae grow on the rocks and feed on the nutrients in the stream, essentially filtering the water.
The sculpture has also been exhibited in Taastrup in November 2016, where the exhibition was arranged by Taastrup Kunstforening.
videos, written pieces, events, etc.) that are created by each hosting partner in order to contextualize the subject within their community setting.
Each episode includes an original interview with a French-speaking street artist and the creation of a collaboration piece.
Many of the intaglios are believed to date from the prehistoric period, but their age and the identity of their creators are still uncertain.
In the park is a monument to Ivan Panfilov, which was opened in 1944 and was the first monument in the USSR established to commemorate this Panfilov's service.
Dressed in only a shirt and pants, his shirt sleeves are rolled up above his elbows and his collar is open.
His artwork was characteristically critical of the government, and he often depicted the everyday reality of life for regular Venezuelans.
A mercury fountain is a fountain constructed for use with liquid metallic mercury ("quicksilver") rather than water.
Friedrichs-Friedländer explained to a reporter that he has not changed the engraving process and all engraving continues to be completed by hand; this is purposeful, to prevent the process from becoming anonymous.
The massive figure of the deceased is dressed in rich ecclesiastical vestments, draped in free folds.
Trans Lives Matter: St+Art India Foundation, in Delhi, invited the project to work on a large scale mural on a school wall in Lodhi Colony.
Wodkins managed to trick some blogs as well as media outlets Die Welt and PRiv'et Russia on RT into believing that the diapers were real.
The conversion of the building into a street art exhibition began in September 2013 and ended on October 31, 2013, after which the building was officially evacuated prior to demolition.
Made for exhibition in public spaces, rather than theaters, the work premiered on Los Angeles streets using a semi tractor trailer and large mobile home as screen surfaces.
The mural movement was a response to the original movement of Sandino and the revolution that was inspired by him nearly 50 years later.
This is not the first time that York Minster has employed a variety of methods to maintain and increase public access while also facilitating the conservation of its stained glass legacy.
Conductores de Venezuela is a giant ceramic mural on a wall outside the Covered Gymnasium at the Central University of Venezuela, facing out to the Francisco Fajardo freeway.
The Acre Geoglyphs are described by IPHAN as relevant to the study of the occupation process and settlement patterns in the Amazon region.
See also List of public art in Houston References External links Photo on Flickr Closeup photo on Flickr Photo on Picasaweb
The subject of the statues varies and often features an event, famous building or person from the previous year.
This speed means that writers can produce large amounts of throw ups in a short time, especially when compared with pieces.
Shirey seeing graffiti that read "mama" on the side of a building in Minneapolis and has grown into a collection of more than 2,000 images of street art from around the world, including Syria.
Local artists and schools decorated hundreds of full-sized fiberglass pig statues and installed them throughout the downtown area.
Impact In spite of the initial controversy, the artists behind the project believed that FIDO has become accepted by the community.
The buon fresco technique consists of painting in pigment mixed with water on a thin layer of wet, fresh, lime mortar or plaster.
The sculpture is an abstract form; it is installed on the lawn in front of the museum, at 525 South State Street.
The mural, completed(the mural has never been completed, Kobie never got the compensation to finish the job.) between 2010 and 2012, measures 8,750 square feet (813 m2) making it the largest mural in the state of Michigan, and, with its chimera, would like to represent the spirit of the city.
Steel Reborn is a public art work by American artist Charles Toman, located in front of the Miller Compressing Company on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
In 2005, Counts and the Yellow Arrow Mobile App/Global Public Art Project created an immersive installation and exhibition for Piaget at Art Basel Miami, and in 2006, extended the scope of the project to an augmented reality game called ICUH8ING.
Artist Peter Mayer graduated with a master's degree from the Yale School of Architecture and] was at the time of the mural's creation, working for the Indianapolis-based firm Woollen Associates.
Beyond furniture, Washington has created public and installation works around a recurring moon motif.
Figures must be maintained to remain visible, and local people often work regularly to restore or maintain a local landmark: A lost map of Australia at Compton Chamberlayne, Wiltshire, was restored in 2018.
Extreme hot weather, natural dust devils, software development and financial constraints pushed the system switch on date to 18 August 2008.
The memorial incorporates works of art by Ray Simon of Youngstown, Ohio, and was completed at a cost of $150,000 which was raised via donation.
Beginning installation in 2018, over 400 covers have since been installed by The Pokémon Company in cities and towns across the country.
Writing about the January 2011 version, an editor for Alaska magazine described Snowzilla as "a symbol of Alaska civil disobedience enacted, appropriately enough, in snow".
Conservation The 400-watt metal halide fixture and fiber optic illuminating boxes require a bulb change every 1 to 2 years.
The two artists have several stylistic similarities, and especially Banksy's work "Puppy Love" from 2005 has been pointed out as resembling Dolk.
He hoped to capitalize on the mining companies' growing receptiveness to reclamation and remediation projects that dealt with waste land in new, innovative ways.
Alyosha Skurlatov, a soldier of the 3rd Ukrainian Front who served as the model for this statue, died in 2013 at the age of 91.
See also List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 2 References External links http://www.hmdb.org/marker.asp?marker=39925
The faux stones are composed completely of styrofoam and painted gray, weighing approximately 420 lbs.
On Stela 31 there is a depiction of what may be a military figure with a shield that is adorned with this very symbol.
DOT DOT DOT appeared on TV channel NRK talking about the street art movement together with Martin Berdahl Aamundsen from Kontur Forlag, before the release of the book Street Art Norway Vol.
History of Beco do Batman The nickname for the area is attributed to a graffito of the DC Comics character Batman which was painted on one of the walls in the 1980s.
One of the works by English street artist Banksy during his October 2013 "residency" in New York City depicts a worker washing away the Eternity tag.
Wall Poems (Dutch: Muurgedichten, alternatively Gedichten op muren or Dicht op de Muur) is a project in which more than 110 poems in many different languages were painted on the exterior walls of buildings in the city of Leiden, The Netherlands.
In the later 20th century, programmable "dancing waters" became a feature of novelty fountains associated with resort hotels, where they were combined with laser light shows.
The mural was originally conceived by shipping magnate Johannes Eide in 2008, when he imagined the walls of a former shipbuilding hall being covered by paintings of old boats and images from the shipping industry.
The installations were fed art content via the project's website where anyone could upload artwork to be considered for inclusion on a screen.
The Elephanta site was first occupied by Hinayana Buddhists, before the arrival of the Brahmans to the island, to raise a large stupa to the Buddha with seven smaller stupas around it, probably around the 2nd century BCE.
Examples are in the collections of: Musée d'Orsay, Musée du Luxembourg, Musée Rodin, the Tate Museum, Victoria and Albert Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Norton Simon Museum, California Palace of the Legion of Honor, the Glenkiln Sculpture Park, and the Saint Louis Art Museum.
In 1960, he graduated with a BA in mathematics, but was already moving towards art after taking a sculpture course to fulfill a liberal-arts requirement; he was attracted to the medium as a means of making abstract ideas physical.
Steina and Woody Vasulka introduced the organizers to Godfrey Reggio, director of the film Koyannisqatsi (1982) who provided guidance on organizing Social Sculpture events as public service announcements.
For the statue in Washington, an association was founded to raise money for the effort, ultimately earning $21,000 by subscribers.
She was inspired by the student struggles in the 70s and 80s at Monash, and the work serves as a place for social meetings and encounters.
After this initial study, serious archaeological excavations commenced in the 1980s under Israeli professors Moshe Kochavi and Yoni Mizrachi, as part of the Land of Geshur Archaeological Project.
The Chapungu Sculpture Park is a sculpture garden in Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe, which displays the work of Zimbabwean stone sculptors.
According to Scott, it was agreed Van Hoeydonck's name would not be made public to avoid the commercial exploitation of the US government's space program.
Some of the dynamited spheres have been reassembled and are currently on display at the National Museum of Costa Rica in San José.
As a result, the Miron firm transformed 75 hectares of the quarry into a landfill site for domestic waste.
He studied architecture at McGill University and Yale University, and worked in Paris and New York before returning to Montreal in 1964, where he opened his architecture practice and began teaching at the Université de Montréal.
Sand mandalas traditionally take several weeks to build due to the large amount of work involved in laying down the sand in such intricate detail.
Most of the references come from the comprehensive catalogue raisonné edited by German art historian Eva Meyer-Hermann and published by the David Zwirner Gallery and Yale University Press (2018–2019).
The US National Snow Sculpting Championship organized by Winterfun USA is the only national snow sculpting championship in the United States.
He valued the work at $10,000 and donated it to the university, asking that no changes be made and that the structure be allowed to deteriorate naturally.
Information Untitled (IUPUI Letters) was designed as part of the signage package to go with the original construction of IUPUI's Campus Center.
was a twelve-hour performance installation over a course of six days, at 55 Water Street, with an environment made of a field of wild grass harvested from Jamaica Bay.
A tall stainless steel light post salvaged from the demolition of Milwaukee's Park East Freeway is surrounded by a colorful array of painted aluminum signs that protrude in a spiral formation.
At least 4,200 people have died, largely from dehydration and hyperthermia, while attempting this journey through Southern Arizona.
It commemorates Albert Gallatin, who founded New York University and served as United States Secretary of the Treasury.
Description The painting is 48 by 3 metres (157 ft × 10 ft) and made from fluid enamel painted on 48 individual steel panels measuring 1 by 3 metres (3 ft 3 in × 9 ft 10 in) each.
The origin of who created and what was the first true tiki-shaped mug is frequently debated and has not been decided.
A number of sculptures were driven across Tower Bridge and London Bridge on a trailer drawn by a tractor.
The oil on canvas measures 131.5 × 102.6 cm (51 3/4 × 40 3/8 in.) and was auctioned at Sotheby's Paris on June 30, 2020, with a final price of €77,825, surpassing its estimated value of €30,000–50,000.
Di Suvero visited UMMA for the reinstallation, and the University of Michigan awarded him an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree.
Style A Lock On is art in a public space, typically attached to a fence or street lamp with some sort of padlock, without permission.
The technology finds the greatest application in treating malodorous compounds and volatile organic compounds (VOCs).
Typically held the last week of February and the first week of March, spectators may view the sculptors at work during the championship competitions.
It is characterized by an aedicule with a fresco by Martino da Verona, who depicted the Madonna col Bambino surrounded by four Musician Angels, addressing the three Bevilacqua introduced by Saints Catherine, Dominic, Anthony Abbot, George and Zeno.
I wanted an alarm clock, an answer to the daylight...." "...I studied the place during an entire year.
These nodes will be located at a distance of 22.416% of the length of the tube from each end of the tube.
Two members of the FSU College Republicans created the poster from an Obama "Hope" poster they had purchased from the school's College Democrats club, and used it to demonstrate outside the Biden event.
See also The Awakening, a 1980 sculpture that also features hands emerging from the ground Mano del Desierto, a 1992 sculpture of a giant hand by the same artist == References ==
Development FIDO was announced in 1999 as one of a number of projects funded through the council's public art program.
The mountainous region of the county consists of the Albera massif to the southeast, the Corbières massif to the north, and the historic regions of Vallespir, Conflent, Cerdagne, and Capcir, which make up almost 50% of the department's total area.
However, the restoration works would continue, with Mayor Luis Torres Robledo being the one who would begin the second stage of the Work.
The manufacturers expect that in time the polystyrene (which is non-biodegradable) will be replaced with a polyurethane blend.
He or she may also work with food purveyors, catering directors, equipment vendors, financial consultants, the media, sanitation inspectors and dietitians.
A carafe () is a glass container with a flared lip used for serving liquids, especially wine and coffee.
French master chef, Jassintour Rozea (1721-1783) wrote several culinary books on haute cuisine (The Gift of Comus, 1752, and The Compleat Cook, Market Woman & Dairy Maid, 1756 - Library of Congress, USA) was also master chef to Charles Seymour, 6th.
The kilogram was in turn specified as the mass of the International Prototype of the Kilogram (a specific platinum/iridium cylinder) and was intended to be the same mass as the 1 litre of water referred to above.
Radappertization is derived from the combination of radiation and Appert, the name of the French scientist and engineer who invented sterilized food for the troops of Napoleon.
Regional and local variations Asia Indonesian cuisine has a variation on en papillote using leaves to steam food.
Today's US teaspoon is equivalent to 4.92892159375 ml, which is also 1⁄6 US fluid ounces, 1+1⁄3 US fluid drams, or 80 US minims.
It is served warm either plain or sprinkled with cocoa powder, cinnamon sugar, sometimes with fresh or canned fruits, jam, vanilla, choco bits; modern additions include ice cream, whipped cream, brown sugar, maple syrup, candied fruit, granola, pumpkin seeds etc.
Both the Oxford English Dictionary and The Dictionary of National Biography discuss the attribution.
Savoury Pease pudding was first made possible at the beginning of the 17th century with the advent of the pudding cloth.
History Various desserts consisting of whipped cream in pyramidal shapes with coffee, liqueurs, chocolate, fruits, and so on either in the mixture or poured on top were called crème en mousse ('cream in a foam'), crème mousseuse ('foamy cream'), mousse ('foam'), and so on, as early as 1768.
In the North East of England, a request for a half and half would more commonly produce a combination of Scotch ale and India pale ale (IPA).
Within health care, the chef is often responsible for the development of variations on mainstream meals, to fit different types of diets while still having an appetizing meal.
"mortaria") was one of a class of Ancient Roman pottery kitchen vessels, specifically a type of mortar.
History Dark cuisine typically sounds or looks bizarre or even disgusting but in some cases is more appealing than anticipated.
Depending on preference, meals would be eaten in one's own home or in a communal dining room, which could also serve as a meeting room and playroom for children.
Proponents of the series' categorization as "comedy" argue that the show unfolds as a dark comedy marked by ridiculous situations and comedic timing, relies on the comedic effect inherent to chaos, is a comedy of errors and is heavily characterized by back-and-forth banter or snark.
Plate An electric plate cooktop is similar to a coil cooktop but uses plate-like base supports as opposed to coil supports.
While rice is common to most regional cuisines in Asia, different varieties are popular in the different regions: Basmati rice is popular in South Asia, Jasmine rice in Southeast Asia, and long-grain rice in China and short-grain rice in Japan and Korea.
Often, barbecue meat items are marinated with olive oil and citrus juice mixtures, and then garnished with various herbs and spices; basic persillade and several variations are often put on top of the meat.
A chushkopek (Bulgarian: Чушкопек, literally: pepper-roaster) is a uniquely Bulgarian kitchen appliance for roasting peppers, aubergines or potatoes, generally used in salads.
Curry paste Pesto Cheese and milk Cheeses always start out as food pastes, but most of them become harder during the fermentation and curing processes.
See also Fish knife Fish fork References Further reading Rabinovitch, Benton Seymour; Macapia, Paul, eds.
It is a small flat strip of steel with a hinged sharpened cutting blade that lies flat against the body when not in use.
Porous bags Some dry products, typically grains, are sold in perforated plastic bags and designed for convenient cooking directly in the enclosure.
It was inspired by the "jerking" action the server would implement to drive the fountain handle back and forth when adding soda.
The oven technique is similar to the preparation of baked eggs, the difference being that the preparation of baked eggs does not have to employ a water bath.
In 2010, it was estimated that gutter oil represented 10% of China's edible oil market (with 1 in every 10 restaurants using it) and that 3 million tonnes of gutter oil were consumed in China annually, with a network of distributors of gutter oil across central and eastern China.
After the herb has been allowed to steep in the liquid for an appropriate period of time, it is removed (possibly by straining) leaving an infusion.
A wet grinder consists of granite stones rotating inside a metal drum with the help of an electric motor.
Modern bottle scrapers include a spatula-side with right angles useful for scraping vla out of these containers as well.
Hot salt frying is an old cooking technique, and is used in villages throughout Asia and other parts of the world.
In February 2018, five production runs of Instant Pot Gem 65 8-in-1 Multicookers were recalled because they were overheating and subsequently melting due to a manufacturing defect.
As the batter revolved on the hot grill, the pancake was flipped halfway through the cooking process by a shelf atop the grill.
Influential tea masters praised the rough, spontaneous, wabi-sabi, appearance of Japanese rural wares, mostly stoneware, over the perfection of Chinese-inspired porcelain made by highly skilled specialists.
Examples might include a chocolate brownie that is cosmetically disfigured but otherwise edible, or unused portions of cookie dough.
Prior to the introduction of the caboose the furnaces for cooking were, aboard three-deckers, placed on the middle deck, and aboard two-decked ships in the forecastle.
In the 1960s, as supermarkets began selling ready meals, cauliflower cheese was invoked by Elizabeth David as a symbol of good British cooking as she asked wistfully whether a day would come that "it's going to be clever to serve some relaxed English dish like cauliflower cheese".
In China the term had been used starting in 2012 to discuss stargazy pie, a Cornish dish that exemplified "all that the Chinese find baffling about Western cooking".
Other products where drum drying can be used are, for example, starches, breakfast cereals, baby food, and instant mashed potatoes to make them cold-water-soluble.
En papillote (French pronunciation: [ɑ̃ papijɔt]; French for "enveloped in paper"), or al cartoccio in Italian, is a method of cooking in which the food is put into a folded pouch or parcel and then baked.
Training Development chefs need sufficient training in culinary arts, experimental food methods and food science plus adequate experience in the actual preparation of dishes.
Additionally, foods with a higher water content are more subject to carry over cooking as water has a higher heat capacity and will have more heat to distribute throughout the food item.
In Holland and England competition grew between the noble families as to who could prepare the most lavish banquet.
Here the chef is typically responsible for designing dishes and ensuring that the local kitchen staff can create/prepare them to an exact standard.
Ironstone china: patented in 1813, often classed as earthenware, but very strong and vitreous, and popular for wares with heavy usage.
In addition to goods being traded, knowledge of food preparation and also worked to add to the field of botany.
In 2013 the fitness activities, lectures and 24-hour fruit bar (as well as gourmet fruit-based dinners) drew in excess of 600 participants for the 7-day festival.
See also Propane torch Lighter Blowtorch List of cooking appliances Oxy-fuel welding and cutting References External links LPG Burner
South Asia In South Asia, regular unstrained yogurt ("curd"), made from cow or water buffalo milk, is often sold in disposable clay bowls called kulhar.
According to family lore, in 1892 Alfredo began to work in a restaurant located in Piazza Rosa that was run by his mother, Angelina.
It raised an unprecedented $100,000 via Kickstarter in 2013, was named Publication of the Year in 2014 by the James Beard Foundation, inducted into the Library of Congress in 2019, and won the IACP Digital Media Award for Best Group Food Blog in 2020.
Ebon Moss-Bachrach as Richard "Richie" Jerimovich, Michael's best friend, the de facto manager of the restaurant; later maître d'hôtel of The Bear.
Using hands to apply a moderate pressure and to rotate the tube on a cutting board or a table makes the skin come off the clove.
In the end of the 1990s, the microwave technology had reached a stage where Haamer's idea was patented.
References External links Micvac is mentioned on the website SIK - the Swedish Institute for Food and Biotechnology.
Baking, grilling, or broiling food, especially starchy foods, until a toasted crust is formed generates significant concentrations of acrylamide.
Though the prevalent license-permit raj in Indian bureaucracy ended for most retailing in the 1990s, it continues in this trade.
In 2012 the Moroccan government planned for increased production, then around 2,500 tonnes, to 4,000 tonnes by 2020.
The occurrence of starch degradation into sugar by the enzyme amylase was most commonly known to take place in the Chloroplast, but that has been proven wrong.
The pellicle plays a role in producing better smoked products as it acts as a protective barrier for the food and also plays a role in enhancing the flavor and color produced by the smoke.
Other tourist businesses use substitutes instead of vegetation or use an imu pao, an above ground variation of the imu.
Related works An earlier rejected study by Karsten, Oppstilling ved vindu is located on the back side of his painting Pløyemark from 1909.
Ymer is mixed with sugar, gelatin, and cream to create the desert ymerfromage (fromage meaning dessert cream in Danish).
In a related usage, the amount of a reagent, whose precise quantity is unimportant, will sometimes be given in terms of the number of drops, often from a glass pipette.
External links Media related to Sinks at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of sink at Wiktionary
Yeast extracts Yeast extracts, usually as byproduct from brewing beer, are made into food pastes, usually dark-brown in colour.
Characteristics Guiso's name gives the implication that it is made up of foods fried rehogado that are cooked in sauce.
Comparing the coddling cooking technique to boiling when it comes to whole eggs, the process of coddling takes a longer time due to the use of a lower cooking temperature, but it produces a more tender egg.
Due to its portability, it is widely used in the Horn of Africa and Southwestern Asia; especially by nomads.
In 1985, Henri was joined by his son Niels Peteri, and on 1 September 1987, they founded the company Henri Peteri B.V., the brand name 'Quooker' was later created by Niels.
Cheesemakers also need to be skilled in grading cheese to assess quality, assessing defects and suitability for release, and cheese ripening.
A sink should have a clear counter area of at least 60 cm (24 in) on one side, and at least 45 cm (18 in) on the other side.
Despite the exclusive nature of the job and the status levels of those they prepared food for, the occupation of the cook during Ming times was not a highly coveted profession due to the amount of animal killing involved with being a cook.
DCI Cheese Company Sheana Davis – maker of Delice de la Vallee and other fresh cheeses and owner of the Epicurean Connection.
maxima, related, yet different pumpkin species, yielded the following ranges for the percentage of several fatty acids: The sum of myristic and palmitic acid content ranged from 12.8 to 18.7%.
Various spices can be added to the Turkmen bread: cumin, cinnamon, olives, mustard seeds, sunflower seeds, and other flavoring ingredients.
Examples Examples include ice cream topped with chili crisp; a combination dreamed up by chef Christine Flynn of "Velveeta foam, spherified Gatorade and Doritos crushed into a decorative "soil"; and "struggle plates": documentation of home cooking disasters that the unfortunate cook ate anyway.
Specifically, perilla oil is more common in the southern part of Korea as perilla is cultivated more easily in the warmer areas.
Flambéing is often associated with the tableside presentation of certain liqueur-drenched dishes set aflame, such as Bananas Foster or Cherries Jubilee when the alcohol is ignited and results in a flare of blue-tinged flame.
This equation is used to find the zeta potential, which is calculated to find the electrokinetic potential in colloidal dispersions.
"They dressed in strong 'stuff' gowns and quilted petticoats; their hair, caps and bonnets were flattened into one indistinguishable mass upon their heads.
The addition of methanol, which is poisonous, renders denatured alcohol unfit for consumption, as ingesting denatured alcohol may result in serious injury or death.
Ashbourne patented the first biscuit cutter in the US, useful for cutting multiple cookies, cakes, or baking powder biscuits at once.
In organic synthesis, a synthetic procedure will often call for the addition of a reagent "dropwise" with the aid of a syringe or a dropping funnel.
Cupbearers are mentioned further in 1 Kings 10:5, and 2 Chronicles 9:4, where they, among other evidences of royal splendor, are stated to have impressed the Queen of Sheba with Solomon's glory.
Larger fire blankets, for use in laboratory and industrial situations, are often made of wool – sometimes treated with a flame retardant chemical such as hexafluorozirconate and zirconium acetate.
Timeline 1950s – Morrison took on its first contract food service job, catering for the set of the movie The Greatest Show on Earth.
The mushikamado is a round clay pot with a removable domed clay lid and is typically found in Southern Japan.
The cooks and caterers guild – informally known as the traiteurs – progressively claimed the right to make any sophisticated meals, leaving inns and taverns to mainly make roast or grilled meat.
T Tillamook County Creamery Association – dairy cooperative headquartered in Tillamook County, Oregon, best known for its cheddar cheese.
All six units are the traditional British equivalents of the US customary cup and the metric cup, used in situations where a US cook would use the US customary cup and a cook using metric units the metric cup.
Further reduction of glucosinolate levels remains important for the use of rapeseed meal in animal feed.
These trades were facilitated by rich merchant states that traded with them, the most notable being Venice.
Tingvollost, family farm in Tingvoll Municipality in Norway, makes the Kraftkar (World Champion in World Cheese Awards, 2016).
The formation of a relatively rigid yet flexible matrix from egg white is an important component in baking cakes and underpins many desserts based on meringue.
It is considered offensive to the dead and gods to put chopsticks vertically into food as it mimics this practice.
References External links The ORIGINAL Christmas Dessert, includes an explanation and example usage of pudding cloth
Since the blood is no longer being circulated through the body, the lactic acid starts to break down the muscle and connective tissues around it.
The bioavailability of some vitamins such as thiamin, vitamin B6, niacin, folate, and carotenoids are increased with cooking by being freed from the food microstructure.
In the United States, a 1980s gourmet food movement evolved from a long-term division between elitist (or "gourmet") tastes and a populist aversion to fancy foods.
They are also used for balling other soft fleshy fruits, trying small bits of other foods such as ice cream, or making chocolate truffles.
She then cooked at Chez Panisse and was a student for eighteen years at the San Francisco Zen Center.
It is a variant of sinangag (garlic fried rice) and is similar to bagoong fried rice, which uses bagoong (shrimp paste).
The French state bought it in the sale of Soult's collection in 1858 and it has hung in the Louvre, in Paris, ever since.
The stove serves a dual purpose: it acts as a platform for cooking and, when flipped upside down, as a windbreak to shelter the flame during cooking.
Jewish cuisine In Ashkenazi Jewish cuisine, meatloaf is called Klops (Hebrew: קלופס) and can be served cold or hot.
Electrical stoneware: historically used for electrical insulators, although it has been replaced by electrical porcelain.
This is by virtue of the heat retention properties of the ceramic shell with temperatures up to 750 °F (400 °C).
Nutmeg graters are normally metal, cylindrical or half-cylindrical, the surface perforated with small rasped holes.
Sujeo (Korean: 수저) is the Korean term for the set of eating utensils commonly used to eat Korean cuisine.
Rotating horizontally over embers: In this version the meat may be subject to smoke from dripping fat that burns.
Wu's food stall attracted a wide clientele including diplomats and wealthy businesspeople despite serving a relatively cheap and unsophisticated dish; however, it was later destroyed by flooding originating from a typhoon during which Wu almost drowned.
On some models vertical blades cut to produce julienne, or a wavy blade is used that produces crinkle cuts.
They smoked small pipes of tobacco, took snuff, drank gin and were known for their colourful language." In the 18th century, fishwives frequently appeared in satires as fearsome scourges of fops and foreigners.
See also Cream of Wheat Halva List of porridges Sago pudding Rice pudding Tapioca pudding Milk kissel Suji ka halwa == References ==
Preparation Ingredients used in Note by Note cuisine are called compounds, which include water, ethanol, sucrose, protein, amino acids and lipids.
2011 - Morrison Management Specialist was divided into three sectors, under its parent company Compass Group (Morrison Healthcare, Morrison Senior Living, Touchpoint Support Services) References External links Morrison Healthcare Morrison Community Living
As of 2020, the main cosmetics products containing argan oil are face creams, lip glosses, shampoos, moisturizers, and soaps.
A honey dipper (also called a honey dripper, honey wand, honey stick, honey spoon, or honey drizzler) is a kitchen utensil used to collect viscous liquid (generally honey or syrup) from a container, which is then dispensed at another location.
Production Oil from pumpkin seeds is extracted by solvent extraction or by supercritical carbon dioxide methods.
Mithaecus's cookbook was an early one, but most of it has been lost; Athenaeus quotes one short recipe in his Deipnosophistae.
In most homemade diets for dogs, a variety of ingredients are included which may include: Fresh raw meat (mostly lean meat with the exception of pork for some dogs, beef is the most commonly used) Vegetables such as squash, pumpkin, leafy greens, carrots, parsley, etc.
Traditional spurtles have stylised thistles at the top, while modern ones often have a smooth taper.
In 1911, General Electric produced a prototype electric waffle iron, and production began around 1918.
She has created ‘Eat The Book’ experiences, celebrating African food from African writing by creating the dishes at literary and arts festivals.
Diamond Surface (Hydrogen-Terminated) Diamond surfaces with hydrogen termination are hydrophobic, making them suitable for non-stick applications.
Noteworthy dishes pioneered by Adrià himself include his potato omelette, which consists of onion jam, liquid egg, and potato foam layered atop one another in a milkshake glass.
Production and distribution The burjiko is made from sepiolite mined from Somalia's central district of El Buur.
In the middle of the 18th century, the chocolatiere was commonly featured in family portraits, intended to represent an ideal maintained among the aristocracy of social situations marked by temperance as an alternative to alcohol.
Cooking spray is a spray form of an oil as a lubricant, lecithin as an emulsifier, and a propellant such as nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide or propane.
Applications Brazing, soldering, plumbing Often used as daily task tools, butane torches work very well for home improvement and work to solve problems with plumbing, soldering, and brazing.
The tube peeler was invented by Ben Omessi, a retired American architect who was designing home items for people with disabilities and it was patented in 1998.
The wash water is heated with an in-tank electric heat element and mixed with a cleaning solution, and is used repeatedly from one load to the next.
See also Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Bill, 2012 Tea lady, a similar occupation in Britain == References ==
European machines and some high-end North American machines use passive methods for drying – a stainless steel interior helps this process and some models use heat exchange technology between the inner and outer skin of the machine to cool the walls of the interior and speed up drying.
Denaturation is the process by which foods or liquids are made unpleasant or dangerous to consume; it is done by adding a substance known as a denaturant.
One of the most pressing jobs of mashgichim, however, is the checking in and verification of shipments.
The spurtle (or "spurtel", "spurtil", "spirtle", or "spartle") is a wooden Scottish kitchen tool, dating from the 15th century, that is used to stir porridge, soups, stews, and broths.
The work done by the school was later expanded into the two-volume Mastering the Art of French Cooking series, published in 1961 and 1970, and Child wore the logo of the school as a badge for much of her television career.
Proponents of the whole prey model diet believe dogs and cats are natural carnivores and do not have any nutritional needs besides what is found in meat, bones, and organs.
Sticky candies, such as Mike and Ike, that are often sold in bulk vending machines may be sprayed with cooking spray to keep them from sticking together in the machines.
Horsehair mesh tamises were previously common, but are now difficult to find outside of antique stores.
Background In 2003, the Rio hotel and casino introduced their bevertainers, who worked as cocktail servers and as entertainers.
Brightly painted and artfully arranged, arabber carts became a common sight on the streets of Baltimore.
The concept of cooking in a tagine appears in the famous One Thousand and One Nights, an Arabic-language story collection from the 9th century.
In late 19th-century recipes, the custard is elaborately flavored and scented with citron, orange flower water, and vanilla sugar.
Contrastingly, frothing skim milk, which has significantly less amounts of fats and protein, will produce a lighter and thinner foam.
A heavy ganache can require twice as much dark chocolate as cream by weight, or 2.5 times as much milk chocolate or white chocolate.
It is made of salted strained yogurt or diluted yogurt mixed with cucumbers, garlic, salt, olive oil, red wine vinegar, sometimes with lemon juice, and herbs such as dill, mint, parsley and thyme.
Heating may be either direct, by means of a parabolic mirror which concentrates sunlight on the underside of the mitad, or indirect, by focusing the sun's rays on a boiler to generate steam, which can be used to heat the mitad.
This allowed for a clear view between the two spaces—enabling the person cooking to keep an eye on children in the dining room, while making kitchen activities visible from the adjoining space.
Archaeological excavations have uncovered pottery cooking vessels known as yan steamers: a yan was composed of two vessels, a zeng with a perforated floor surmounted on a pot or caldron with a tripod base and a top cover.
Namerō is grilled directly on an iron griddle, stuffed into scallop or abalone shells or wrapped in sarutoriibara or camellia leaves.
147.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Bishop's recipe includes a note that "in some parts of the country" the hare is cooked in ale with bacon.
Etymology Used in English since the late 18th century, the word cuisine—meaning manner or style of cooking—is borrowed from the French for 'style of cooking' (literally 'kitchen'), as originally derived from Latin coquere, 'to cook'.
They are normally made of a fine metal mesh or a metal sheet with numerous small holes, to allow steam to exit the pan but not oil.
Gallery See also List of cheese dishes Notes References External links Recipe from A Book of Household Management by Isabella Beeton Archived 2007-03-04 at the Wayback Machine
As largely a commercial appliance, dipper well valves are typically kept at full flow during all serving hours.
Contestants Challenges Episode 1: Premiere Episode 2: Meringue Episode 3: Patisserie Episode 4: Cookies Episode 5: Desserts Episode 6: Fruits Episode 7: Argentina Since this episode was 3 challenges.
Dry-aging beef For dry-aged beef, the meat is hung in a room kept between 33–37 degrees Fahrenheit (1–3 degrees Celsius), with relative humidity of around 85%.
Due to their health aspect (cooking without any oil), food steamers are used extensively in health-oriented diets such as cuisine minceur, some raw food diets, the Okinawa diet, a macrobiotic diet, or the CRON-diet.
It is important to trap heat energy and reduce convection by isolating the air inside the cooker from the air outside the cooker.
Although many recipes require eggs to be at room temperature, it is easiest to separate eggs that are cold.
The oil content of the actual amaranth grain ranges from 4.8 to 8.1%, which is relatively low compared to other sources of seed oil.
Butter ganache: More common in Europe, this is made with warm, tempered chocolate and softened butter.
Typical uses Sweet Prior to the 19th century, the English Christmas pudding was boiled in a pudding cloth.
This function is only applicable to programs which do not require user intervention throughout the process and in which ingredients may safely stay at room temperature for the delay.
Each issue has 12 recipes which are selected as nutritious, ethnically diverse, and inexpensive to make, as well as games, exercises, and food facts.
The JCCoE also runs the annual Joint Culinary Training Exercise (JCTE) competition, the largest American Culinary Federation (ACF) competition in North America.
It is customary in the United States to tip the cocktail waitress for serving drinks, even in casinos which offer free drinks to active gamblers.
It premiered on April 8, 2018, and it is hosted by Paula Chaves with judges Christophe Krywonis, Damián Betular and Pamella Villar.
For this reason, it is important to keep the heat low and the poaching time to a bare minimum, which will also preserve the flavor of the food.
Finding foods that provide sufficient amounts of calcium to maintain a good ratio is challenging, as many foods that are high in calcium are also high in phosphorus.
The company also runs a competition every year, 'Bundts Across America', celebrating the best Bundt cake creations as well as holding cooking classes twice a week.
Kettle corn, a sweet variety of popcorn that is typically mixed or seasoned with a light-colored refined sugar, salt, and oil.
Compassion of South Africa, a non-sectarian Christian action group opposing Apartheid, and the particular assistance from Brigid Oppenheimer facilitated Shirley's design and marketing and published a comprehensive recipe book with a lot of graphics to help illiterate users follow the recipes.
Deep-fried food has been a core part of the culture of the American South with many restaurants solely serving deep-fried foods.
Other restaurants in the city of New Orleans soon followed, with the dish gaining in popularity with locals and tourists alike.
Types Beverage openers vary in size but commonly include a glass bottle crown cork remover, glass bottle threaded metal crown cork cap grip for greater twisting torque, a plastic bottle cap grip for greater twisting torque and a stay tab lever for metal beverage cans.
The temperatures indicated above are the peak temperatures in the cooking process, so the meat should be removed from the heat source when it is some degrees cooler (depending on power of heat source, size of cut).
It was used as a safer form of heating equipment than was available previously and could be used to cook small morsels of food.
Green sauce or greensauce is a family of cold, uncooked sauces based on chopped herbs, including the Spanish and Italian salsa verde, the French sauce verte, the German grüne Soße or Frankfurter grie Soß (Frankfurt dialect), the British mint sauce and greensauce, and the Argentinian chimichurri.
Carryover cooking is often used as a finishing step in preparation of foods that are roasted or grilled, and should be accounted for in recipes as it can increase the internal temperature of foods by temperatures between 5 and 25 degrees Fahrenheit (3–14°C).
Slow cookers do not provide sufficient heat to compensate for loss of moisture and heat due to frequent removal of the lid, e.g., to add and remove food in perpetual stews, (pot-au-feu, olla podrida).
The outfits were initially not received well by the co-founders, but Hefner advised that it could work once changes were made.
Most schools also offer training in resume preparation, how to act at a job interview, and where they should start looking for employment.
In American collectibles and antiques, toleware refers to kitchen-related objects created from metal, typically tin or thin steel, and are often in decorative styles such as Arts and Crafts and Pennsylvania Dutch.
Uses in food Macadamia nut oil possesses properties conducive to high-heat cooking, such as a high smoke point and resistance to oxidative degradation.
After metrication in Canada, milk and other liquids in pre-packaged containers came in metric sizes so conversion issues could no longer arise.
With the pestle tip placed in the bottom of the strainer, it is rolled against the sides of the device to work liquids and soft food through it.
However, such refiners can also have illegal side business, as the prices attained by selling it as cooking oil are much higher than if it is sold to the chemical or energy industries such as KBR Energy.
These scenarios also lead Western trends toward blades tempered to a lower level of hardness (and thus lower brittleness).
The starch prevents over-cooking the eggs, and sets the cream (usually requiring it to be beaten or whipped before use).When gelatin is added, it is known as crème anglaise collée ([kʁɛm ɑ̃ɡlɛz kɔle]).
Khorovats, khashlama, fish like the sevan trout, and khash are the most popular meat-dishes that are prepared by using a tonir.
It is then served with a variety of toppings including but not limited to white cheese, cinnamon powder and pistachios.
Les Dames d'Escoffier is an international society of professional women involved in the food, fine beverage, and hospitality industries.
In French Provincial Cooking (1960), Elizabeth David gives a list of typical items in a batterie de cusine: Other kitchen implements used by French, English, American and Canadian cooks and food writers include: References Sources Beck, Simone; Louisette Bertholle; Julia Child (2012) [1961].
Related Malmö, Sweden, hosts the Disgusting Food Museum which opened in 2018 and encourages visitors to "question what they find disgusting".
The mirror has to be occasionally tilted about a perpendicular axis to compensate for the seasonal variation in the Sun's declination.
For example, a mixture of titanium and ceramic can be sandblasted onto the pan surface, and then fired at 2,000 °C (3,630 °F) to produce a non-stick ceramic coating.
Application The kitchen work triangle principle is used by kitchen designers and architects when designing residential kitchens.
(90-110 °C) Pasta – heats to a boiling point and pauses with notification to the user that ingredients may be added (further automation would exclude human intervention to release ingredients).
With a timerless cooker it is possible to use an external timer to stop cooking after a set time, or both to start and stop.
A multicooker (also written "multi cooker") is an electric kitchen appliance for automated cooking using a timer.
They usually serve tea in a small glasses or unglazed clay teacups (kulhar) but have started to use plastic cups.
The rotation will push the cloves to bounce between the wall and the bumpy surface, taking the skin off.
Etymology The word whisk, given its similarity to equivalent words in modern Scandinavian languages, was probably borrowed from Old Norse.
The single cup of milk is stored in a sealed (foil cover) plastic cup of milk or cream with long shelf life but must be refrigerated.
Upon cooking, the food can be drained easily by removing the bag from the water, without use of additional kitchen utensils.
It can be combined with seafood like shrimp and squid and eaten as is, or eaten paired with meat dishes.
The primary difference both in the past and today between a Belfast and London sink is that the Belfast sink is fitted with an overflow weir which prevented water from spilling over the sink's edge by draining it away and down into the wastewater plumbing.
Theophrastos, in the fourth century BC, had very strong opinions about which oils to use to make perfumes, and ben oil was firmly at the top of the list.
To get a consistent batch of juice the whole charge is allowed to extract and then bottled when complete; draining of the juice as it extracts will result in different compositions from start to end of the batch.
Later stoves obviated the necessity for this arrangement, but in the early twentieth century it was still to be seen in great numbers of country cottages and farmhouse kitchens all over England, and in small artisan's houses in the West Midlands and the North.
Pottery and cooking technique The traditional tagine pottery is earthenware, sometimes painted or glazed, and consists of two parts: a circular base unit that is flat with low sides and a large cone- or dome-shaped cover that sits on the base during cooking.
It consisted of a board to roll the dough out on, which was hinged to a metal plate with various cutting spring-loaded shapes mounted to it.
In a microwave, waxed paper can be used to prevent splatters by covering the food when microwave cooking.
Michael Karl Witzel describes an archetypal soda jerk as "[a] consummate showman, innovator and freelance linguist ...
Associate, bachelor, and graduate degree programs are offered in restaurant management by community colleges, junior colleges, and some universities in the United States and elsewhere.
It is a variant of sinangag (garlic fried rice) and is similar to aligue fried rice, which uses taba ng talangka (crab fat paste).
Due to the microscopic pores caused by the casting process, cast aluminium has a lower thermal conductivity than sheet aluminium.
Manufacturers include functional items, for example some from Josiah Wedgwood to more sculptural contemporary works by Ane Christensen.
Arthur Bremer, American failed assassin of George Wallace in 1972, and whose diary became the basis for the movie Taxi Driver, was demoted from busser to custodian at the Milwaukee Athletic Club when he was caught talking to himself.
Most cooking sprays have less food energy per serving than an application of vegetable oil, because they are applied in a much thinner layer: US regulations allow many to be labelled "zero-calorie"; in the UK sprays claim to supply "less than 1 calorie per serving".
ISBN 978-0-8247-4780-0.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 (link) Cristina Plotka, V.; Clark, S.
High-alcohol liquors, such as Bacardi 151 or Everclear, are highly flammable and considered too dangerous by professional cooks.
Commonly made of lacquered bamboo, teak or beechwood, the daunglan is served with small bowls consisting of various dishes and soups.
A large wok is filled with sand, which turns black from accumulating carbonized particles from the food items being fried, and heated to high temperature.
Oil made from pressed and toasted sesame seeds is amber-colored and aromatic, and is used as a flavoring agent in the final stages of cooking.
The houses were positively received by the architect Stefan Doernberg, who published an essay on the one-kitchen house problem in 1911.
See also Sofrito Mirepoix (cuisine) Holy trinity (cooking) List of cooking techniques Sautéing == References ==
Another commenter, after requesting "dark cuisine" combinations from her chef friends, listed sliced roast beef topped with blueberry yogurt, sausage with peanut butter and onions, and chili crisp peanut brittle.
Deconstructed cuisine, or deconstructivism, is a style and theory of experimental cuisine which seeks to deconstruct the cooking and preparation of food, drawing both from the scientific study of molecular gastronomy and from the culinary arts.
Casserole pots (for making casseroles) resemble roasters and Dutch ovens, and many recipes can be used interchangeably between them.
Carne asada (literally meaning "roasted meat") consists of marinated cuts of beef rubbed with salt and pepper, and then grilled.
See also Food portal Colander Filter Zaru References External links The dictionary definition of chinois at Wiktionary
Both are working classrooms designed as a restaurant setting, in which the students prepare and serve food and drink to paying customers.
It is eaten paired with meat and seafood dishes, or is cooked with chunks of meat and seafood and eaten as is.
Deep-fried foods such as funnel cakes arrived in northern Europe by the 13th century, and deep-fried fish recipes have been found in cookbooks in Spain and Portugal at around the same time.
He was later able to develop a highly successful career as a comedian and left the restaurant business.
Critiques of raw diets include the concern with the possible nutrient imbalances that can arise feeding any type of raw diet.
References Education in Dumaguete retrieved from [1], on 2010-07-04 Ladderized Education in the Philippines [2], on 2010-08-02 External links Dumaguete Academy for Culinary Arts official website
The name is Chavacano and Philippine Spanish for "toasted boiled rice." It is a very old dish adapted from Chinese fried rice with influences from Spanish cuisine by Chinese Filipino immigrants in the Spanish colonial era of the Philippines.
Cover the fire with the fire blanket, and it will help cut the oxygen supply and extinguish the fire.
The content in ChopChop is designed to teach cooking and nutrition to children for the purpose of combating childhood obesity.
When the Dublin Institute of Technology merged with IT Tallaght and IT Blanchardstown on 1 January 2019 to become Ireland's first Technological University, the School of Culinary Arts and Food Technology became part of the TU Dublin City Campus.
The kernels are then later retrieved from the goat droppings, considerably reducing the labour involved in extraction at the expense of some potential gustatory aversion.
Breadcrumbs are a culinary ingredient consisting of flour or crumbled bread of varying dryness, sometimes with seasonings added.
History Ganache was said to have been created accidentally in the 1850s in Paris at a confectionary shop owned by Paul Siraudin, after an apprentice spilled cream on chocolate, prompting his master to call him "ganache" (meaning "idiot").
The upper class had access to these items and held "banquets [that were] as opulent as possible, with as many rich dishes as possible, larger quantities of food, and extravagant use of spices".
In many Hessian families, Green Sauce is part of the traditional meal eaten on Maundy Thursday, relating to its German name Gründonnerstag (lit.
In the case of corn, the embers are doused with water and the corn is then inserted into the horno to be steam-cooked.
A traditional smooth honing steel is of no use if the edge is blunt, because it removes no material; instead it fixes deformations along the edge of a sharp blade, technically known as burnishing.
三辛焼き spelling: The spelling derived from the use of three (三) spicy (辛) foods: ginger, green onion, and perilla.
Ida Joscelyne's book, The Marvellous Little Housekeepers (1880), mentions both rum and kirsch; another recipe appears in A.G.
When making a new flavor of mousse, an important rule is the body is formed of whipping cream and either separated egg yolks or whites (almost never both in the same dish), and frequently, gelatin.
As a result, it has a higher content of solids, including protein, while the addition of cream to the final product is used to maintain ymer's fat content at 3.5%, the same as that of whole milk.
The company regularly participated in world trade fairs and in 1996 opened its first foreign branch in Italy.
For example, the bitterant denatonium might be added to food used in a laboratory, where such food is not intended for human consumption.
Compared to the narrow rectangular form of the Frankfurt kitchen, the square configuration was seen as an improvement.
"Molecular gastronomy is a scientific discipline, and note by note cuisine is the next culinary trend".
The mandrel is inserted into the exposed flesh of the fruit and then either the reamer or the fruit is twisted to grind the flesh and extract the juice.
Di Lelio's fame and success grew (he was knighted by the King of Italy, making him a Cavaliere dell'Ordine della Corona d'Italia) until war rationing made it increasingly difficult to obtain flour, eggs, and butter.
Besides the work triangle, there are several rules of thumb to consider when planning a kitchen: As measured between countertops and cabinets or appliances, work aisles should be no less than 110 cm (42 in) for one cook, or 120 cm (48 in) for multiple cooks.
The problems were the subject of constant criticism from labour movement organizations, as well as social policy associations, academics and housing reformers.
The assumption is that the production of biomass decreases the food supply, causing an increase in world hunger by extracting the organic materials such as corn and soybeans for fuel rather than food.
AIS / WSA – Professional Sommelier Diploma: AIS Professional (Gold) Sommelier Diploma, which is released by Italian Sommelier Association after candidate's career assessment.
A fishmonger (historically fishwife for female practitioners) is someone who sells raw fish and seafood.
Because those temperatures are not reached in pressure cooking, foods are generally browned by searing them, either in the open pressure cooker or another pan beforehand.
Description and history Traditionally, colanders are made of a light metal, such as aluminium or thinly rolled stainless steel.
Either sesame or perilla oil can be used for flavoring namul (vegetable side dishes) and other sides, pan-frying jeon (pan-fried dishes), coating gim (laver) before roasting it, and forming the flavor base for dipping sauce.
A cocktail waitress, colloquially known as a bottle girl, is a female server who brings alcoholic drinks to patrons of drinking establishments such as bars, cocktail lounges, casinos, comedy clubs, jazz clubs, cabarets, and other live music venues.
The first model was marketed as a "6-in-1" device and operated as a pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice or porridge cooker, yogurt maker, sauté/searing pan, steamer, and food warmer.
Prior to Nordic Ware, the grain elevator carried the sign for 'Lumber Stores Inc' until Nordic Ware purchased the land as it expanded and invested $40,000 in a restoration project of it.
Babassu oil is about 70% lipids, in the following proportions: Lauric and myristic acids have melting points relatively close to human body temperature, so babassu oil can be applied to the skin as a solid that melts on contact.
Food steamers release less heat to the kitchen environment, therefore helping keep the kitchen cool during hot summers.
Some commercial dishwashers work similarly to a commercial car wash, with a pulley system that pulls the rack through a small chamber (known widely as a "rack conveyor" systems).
Panko Panko (パン粉) is a type of flaky breadcrumbs used in Japanese cuisine as a crunchy coating for fried foods, such as tonkatsu.
Pontypool and Usk in South Wales made a reputation for tôle imitating Japanese lacquer starting in the early 19th century.
The term was sometimes also applied to the cast-iron stove used for cooking on deck or in galleys during the early 19th century, as well as an outdoor oven or fireplace.
George Kirby, American comedian, singer and actor, worked as a busser at Chicago's Club DeLisa for $13 per week, until his comedic impersonations earned him a trial on the club's stage, which launched his comedy career.
The larger and denser the object being heated, the greater the amount of temperature increase due to carryover cooking.
Chocolate beverages could be made in the devices by placing a compressed brick or cake of chocolate inside with hot water and foaming with a molinillo (known as moussoir in French) inserted through the hole in the top.
On June 25, 2025, 9ato Entertainment announced that Yoon Seo-ah would appear as Seo Gil-geum, a palace maid who befriends Yeon Ji-yeong.
Crisp 'n Dry is a brand of rapeseed oil manufactured by Edible Oils Limited and marketed by Princes Group.
Conversion 1 Dutch cask ≡ 32/21 Tub 1 Dutch cask ≡ 112 pounds(avdp.) 1 Dutch cask ≡ 50.80234544 kg == References ==
Temperatures in a tandoor can reach 480 °C (900 °F; 750 K), and they are routinely kept lit for extended periods.
According to the prevailing Orthodox opinion and the minority Conservative view, this is not relevant to the Shabbat, but is useful on some holidays, when adjusting the heat is allowed, but changing a digital readout on the control panel is not.
"Young women must master the art of using the oven to bake piki, a tasty, delicate paper-thin bread made of cornmeal, before they are considered fit for marriage." See also Adobe bread Clay oven List of ovens Kemence (in Hungarian) == References ==
Labaneh bil zayit, 'labaneh in oil', consists of small balls of dry labneh, sometimes covered with herbs or spices, kept in olive oil, where it can be preserved for over a year.
Description and usage The burjiko is circular in shape, with a deep hole running through its center where charcoal is placed.
Cold water quick release This method is the fastest way of releasing pressure with portable pressure cookers, but can be dangerous if performed incorrectly.
Recognition In 2013, ChopChop received the James Beard Foundation Award for Publication of the Year.
In April 2013, Blue Bell Creameries re-released the flavor in Louisiana and the Mississippi Gulf Coast region, and in 2018 released the flavor again in the Pine Belt area of Mississippi, most notably in the Ramey's supermarket chain.
Their mission is to improve dining facility (DFAC) food quality, staff efficiency and culinary knowledge via Food Management Assistance Teams (FMAT) to improve soldier readiness.
Mashgichim may supervise any type of food service establishment, including slaughterhouses, food manufacturers, hotels, caterers, nursing homes, restaurants, butchers, groceries, or cooperatives.
It is usually light pink in color due to the use of angkak (red yeast rice) coloring agent from the bagoong.
Splatter guards are generally circular, so as to fit the shape of a frying pan, and have a handle for ease of removal and safety.
A beverage opener (also known as a multi-opener) is a device used to open beverage cans, plastic bottles or glass bottles, which are the three most common beverage containers.
She received four additional nominations, and was inducted into the James Beard Foundation's "Who's Who of Food and Beverage in America" in 2005.
Mu kratha is prepared with sliced meat (most often pork) is grilled on the dome in the centre while the vegetables and other ingredients, such as fish balls, cook in the soup (also called Thai suki).
The Micvac system is a pasteurization method for the food processing industry producing ready meals.
The siru is also used during shamanic rituals and is even offered on the tables for daegamsin (대감신; 大監神, state official God).
Ventilation and exhaust Cooktops often have a kitchen hood installed overhead to expel or filter smoke, fumes and undesirable odors that result from cooking.
'chili with cheese'), sometimes simply called queso, is an appetizer or side dish of melted processed cheese and chili peppers, typically served in American Tex-Mex restaurants as a dip for tortilla chips.
A profession traditionally reserved mainly for men, Yuki Chizui is one of the few female sushi chefs and in 2010 she opened Akihabara, Tokyo, the first sushi restaurant with an all-female staff.
One of the claims for ceramic construction is it does not affect flavor (no metallic taste) and, for the same reasoning, lump wood charcoal produces little ash and is preferred.
Nordic Ware is one of the few remaining American cookware companies that produce their products almost entirely in the United States and also offers their products in 50 countries.
If the ganache is being infused with flavorings such as herbs or a tea, they are added to the hot (not boiling) cream and left to steep for several minutes.
Unlike mixers, which cut food into smaller pieces, a wet grinder crushes the food, resulting in different consistency.
A lusikkahaarukka therefore cannot be stored inside a Finnish mess tin as it would cause excessive noise in the mess tin.
In the 1980s, ceramic abrasives became increasingly popular and proved an equal, if not superior, method for accomplishing the same daily maintenance tasks; manufacturers replaced steels with ceramic (and later, manufactured diamond abrasive) sharpening "steels" that were actually hones.
Greece Greek-style tzatziki sauce is commonly served as a meze, to be eaten with pita bread, olives, fried eggplant, zucchini, or other vegetables.
Traditionally, this was accomplished by replacing the conical lid with a flat clay dish filled with hot coals, a technique known as "cooking between two fires".
Toasting forks of various sizes were advertised in the Harrods 1895 Catalogue, with prices ranging from threepence to one shilling and sixpence.
A splatter guard (or spatter guard) is a device placed over a frying pan to prevent hot oil from spitting out of the pan, which often happens when pan frying at a high temperature.
The vegetarianism practiced in much of India has made pulses (crops harvested solely for the dry seed) such as chickpeas and lentils as important as wheat or rice.
This allows one part of the egg to be used without the other part, or each part to be treated in different ways.
French fries, invented in the early 17th century in Chile, became popular in the early 19th century western Europe.
They also provide preventive and therapeutic programs at work places, schools and similar institutions.
A deconstructed salad, for example, might present its ingredients as separate portions on a single plate rather than mixed together, while a deconstructed sandwich might minimize or omit the role of bread in favor combining the interior ingredients directly into an almost salad-like presentation.
Some delicacies are confined to a certain culture, such as fugu in Japan and ant larvae (escamoles) in Mexico, or may refer to specific local products, such as porcino, venison or anchovy.
Job opportunities available in the Hospitals (Government or Private), private consultation companies.
Boil-in-bags are a form of packaged food products in which bagged food is heated or cooked in boiling water.
If some white is left with the yolk, carefully pass the yolk back and forth between halves until it is all drained, being sure not to puncture the yolk on the sharp edges of the shell.
It is said that the shichirin was an affordable way to cook a meal because the amount of charcoal needed for each lighting only cost seven rin.
It is usually served in Chinese Filipino restaurants in major Spanish-era cities like Manila, Cebu, Zamboanga, and Iloilo.
While they need to have general information about alcoholic drinks (e.g., to recognize the names of different kinds of liquor), they also need to learn the specifics of the particular establishment (e.g., the particular brands available at the moment).
With the help of a special (usually wooden, rarely porcelain) grinding stick with a ball-shaped end (called makohin in Ukraine), a makitra can be used for creaming cake batter, eggs with sugar, buttercream, quark for cheese cake, and poppy seeds for kutia.
In the original qidra style, saman (clarified butter) is used to lubricate the surface and a puree of chopped onion is added for flavour and aroma.
See also Dough scraper, a small, handheld, raw-dough working tool Washing paddle, a short handled, wooden washing tool Food portal References External links Media related to Peel (tool) at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of peel at Wiktionary
Curdling is the breaking of an emulsion or colloid into large parts of different composition through the physio-chemical processes of flocculation, creaming, and coalescence.
He decided that 24 letters were not sufficient to capture the English language, and devised instead an alphabet of 40 letters.
Romanization standards include the following: Arabic Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft (1936): Adopted by the International Convention of Orientalist Scholars in Rome.
The lettering used by British artists did not always follow the Trajan capital model, often adding changes such as serifs on the top of the 'M' and 'N', and of course the lower case, Arabic numerals and italics which the Romans did not have.
The accented vowels are used in dictionaries to indicate pronunciation, and ⟨g⟩ with tilde is only present in older works.
'imperishable, indestructible, fixed, immutable') is a consonant letter together with any vowel diacritics in a Brahmic script.
Crown Script The Crown script (خط التاج, Khat al Taj)—is a modern Arabic script fabricated by Egyptian calligrapher Mohammad Mahfouz in 1931 and proposed by then-King Fuad I.
After 1947, with the need for translation of Bible, Latin scripts for Bunun, Paiwan, Taroko, Atayal, and Amis were created.
⟨main⟩ / ⟨mane⟩, ⟨buy⟩ / ⟨by⟩ / ⟨bye⟩, ⟨stare⟩ / ⟨stair⟩, ⟨sight⟩ / ⟨site⟩ / ⟨cite⟩, ⟨none⟩ / ⟨nun⟩, ⟨scene⟩ / ⟨seen⟩, ⟨tail⟩ / ⟨tale⟩ Some words are respelt where an alternate spelling can be used instead of an apostrophe.
In May 1964, the General List of Simplified Chinese Characters (简化字总表) was published by the Chinese Character Reform Press as a new standard list of simplified Chinese characters, which largely ratified and revised the 'Chinese Character Simplification Scheme.
It denotes a glottal stop [ʔ] in orthographies of many languages, such as Nenets (in Cyrillic script) and the artificial Klingon language.
If the individual items of a list are long, complex, affixed with description, or themselves contain commas, semicolons may be preferred as separators, and the list may be introduced with a colon.
File managers such as Windows Explorer (since Windows XP) and Midnight Commander utilize natural sorting by default to display file lists.
This has different spacing from \mid and \parallel, which are relational operators: a \mid b \parallel c is set as a ∣ b ∥ c {\displaystyle a\mid b\parallel c} .
References External links eoconv – a tool to convert text between various orthographic substitutions
By the time of Lorrain's retirement in 1932, the status of Mizoram as one of the most Christian states of modern India, was already anticipated.
Unicode 1.0 (1991) and ISO 10646 (1993) took the first 256 code positions from ISO 8859-1, resulting in SHY at Unicode code point of U+00AD.
A yig mgo is a textual caret mark in Tibetan script which is one of the possible markers for a new text or page.
forehead once rhymed with horrid but is now pronounced with the second syllable as by 85% of American speakers and 65% of British speakers.
Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters, LTD, 2005, 208 p., ISBN 1-85359-785-6 Diethelm Prowe: Review of Sally Johnson, Spelling Trouble?
Nasal vowels are written with a cedilla: a̧ etc., rather than with a tilde to leave room for tone marking, or with a single following nasal consonant: aŋ etc.
For human readers, the difference is imperceptible and unimportant but it has significance in text processing applications.
This is the fourth edition of the standard and was published on 2016-02-15, corrected on 2016-05-01 and covers up to and including Unicode 8.0.
Geschichte der Fabeldichtung in England bis zu John Gay (1726): Nebst Neudruck von Bullokars "Fables of Æsop" 1585, "Booke at Large" 1580, "Bref Grammar for English" 1586, und "Pamphlet for Grammar" 1586.
Conversely, to soften ⟨c⟩ or ⟨g⟩ (to /tʃ/ or /dʒ/ respectively) before a back vowel (⟨a⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨u⟩), a silent ⟨i⟩ is inserted: ⟨–cio–⟩, ⟨–giu–⟩, etc.
2nd Thessalonians, Titus, and Philemon were excluded because they were too short to give reliable samples.
See also Book of the Dean of Lismore Islay Charter Glenmasan Manuscript Notes References MacPharlain, Calum Lamh-Sgrìobhainn Mhic Rath, (Dundee) Thomson, Derick S.
One example was ä → ae in the sense of alphabetising any word with ä as if the letter were replaced by "ae".
An official script is a writing system that is specifically designated to be official in the constitutions or other applicable laws of countries, states, and other jurisdictions.
Its significance is derived from its role as a "syllable", the essential and embryonic core of speech.
This has received particular attention when menu and ribbon titles appeared in all caps in Visual Studio 2012 and Office 2013, respectively.
Consonants Uncommon consonants that do not make a phonemic contrast within a language with similar but more common consonants are not provided for.
In practice, however, the orthographies of such languages entail at least a certain amount of deviation from the ideal of exact grapheme–phoneme correspondence.
Hebrew Popular Journalism : Birth and Development in Ottoman Palestine, London and N.Y, Routledge, 2019 (History of Ben-Yehuda's Press) Hassan, Hassan Ahmad; al-Kayyali, Abdul-Hameed (2018).
Ben Naphtali and Ben Asher Ben Naphtali wrote a Bible with vowels, accents, and Masorah, which differed in some respects from that of his contemporary and rival, Aaron ben Moses ben Asher (generally called Ben Asher).
He was beatified in 1951 by Pope Pius XII and is commemorated by the Catholic Church on 29 January and 2 July.
Founded by Jeff Rubin in 2004, National Punctuation Day simply promotes the correct usage of punctuation.
In general in German, long stressed vowels are followed by single consonants, and short stressed vowels by double consonants.
The Mundi script spread to other parts of India by the 17th or 18th century, with it having influence on merchant records written in Karnataka in Kannada script, particularly the form and style of writing.
The iNiQUiTY BBS software based on Renegade had a feature to support two variants of this automatically: either all vowels would be uppercase or all vowels would be lowercase, with the consonants as the other case.
One of the few places where ano teleia exists is on the Microsoft Windows Polytonic Greek keyboard (having the driver name KBDHEPT.DLL).
In HTML5, the tag reappeared but its meaning was changed significantly: it now "represents a span of inline text which should be rendered in a way that indicates that it has a non-textual annotation".
With the advent of the Internet, the all-caps style is more often used for emphasis; however, it is considered poor netiquette by some to type in all capitals, and said to be tantamount to shouting.
An early system to overcome this, still used today, is matres lectionis, where four of these letters, alef, he, vav and yud also serve as vowel letters.
ḥarakāt (In Arabic: حركات also called تشكيل tashkīl): (ــَـ) fatḥa (a) (ــِـ) kasra (i) (ــُـ) ḍamma (u) (ــْـ) sukūn (no vowel) The ḥarakāt or vowel points serve two purposes: They serve as a phonetic guide.
Modern examples: I have the bed still, it is in every way suitable for the old house where I live now (E.
Medieval European charters written in Latin are largely made up of such abbreviated words with contraction marks and other abbreviations; only uncommon words were given in full.
A complete list of these differences can be found in Mishael Ben Uzziel's treatise Kitāb Al-Khilaf, the book of the Ḥillufim (Differences), which is thought to have been written before 1050.
History Zalgo text was pioneered in 2004 by a Something Awful forum member who created image macros of glitched or distorted cartoon characters exclaiming "Zalgo!" The text in the images was often distorted, and the style of the distortion became popularised as "Zalgo text".
RISC OS uses dots to separate levels of the hierarchical file system when writing path names—similar to / (forward-slash) in Unix-based systems and \ (back-slash) in MS-DOS-based systems and the Windows NT systems that succeeded them.
Further problems are caused by examples of confusion with English, such as connection (incorrect) and connexion (correct).
Programmers originally called the exclamation mark by its full name or "shriek", but Unix popularized the "bang" name.
If the hamza is final: If a short vowel precedes, the hamza is written over the letter (alif, wāw, or yāʾ) corresponding to the short vowel.
IBM code page 850 (an MS-DOS character set covering all ISO 8859-1 characters) placed it at position 240 = 0xF0.
The example of the Fitz prefix, a Norman French patronymic, is applied by ignoring the following space, which may or may not occur.
In his edition of the works of Aristotle, which appeared in 1483 or 1484, the Milanese Renaissance humanist Francesco Filelfo marked literal and appropriate quotes with oblique double dashes on the left margin of each line.
Some sources now state it is acceptable for monospaced fonts to be single-spaced today, although other references continue to specify double spacing for monospaced fonts.
The trademark symbol ™ is a symbol to indicate that the preceding mark is a trademark, specifically an unregistered trademark.
Maunoir was found to be uniquely suited for the difficult task of evangelizing the impoverished people of Brittany.
Vowels Vowels that appear phonetically in Cameroonian languages, but do not make phonemic distinctions, are not provided for.
Etymology Liddell and Scott's Greek–English Lexicon gives the basic meaning of korōnis as "crook-beaked" from which a general meaning of "curved" is supposed to have derived.
Budapest: Rovas Foundation, ISBN 978-963-88437-4-6 External links The Szarvas Rovas inscription on the RovasPedia Jenő Demeczky, Dr.
Romani in North Macedonia Romani in North Macedonia is written with the following alphabet: This alphabet is used in the educational system in North Macedonia for Romani-speaking students.
However, this is a doubling of the trigraph ⟨sch⟩ to indicate that the preceding vowel is short rather than itself being a hexagraph.
(The reading is not in any particular order; the explanation will start with the glyph in the center and then go clockwise.) In the center of the diagram is a dog's head, meaning it is a 'dog day'.
Trediakovsky was also a prolific translator of classical authors, medieval philosophers, and French literature.
Die feministische Sprachkritik und ihre Auswirkungen auf die deutsche Gegenwartssprache [Feminist Linguistic Criticism and its Effect on Contemporary German] (in German).
However, combining characters are required in half-width kana, which does not provide any precomposed characters in order to fit within a single byte.
A special letter ɀ was suggested for the sound /ʑ/, and along with it the digraph dɀ for /d͡ʑ/ (modern dź and dzi).
Chinese character The CJK Symbols and Punctuation block contains one Chinese character: U+3007 〇 IDEOGRAPHIC NUMBER ZERO.
While Arabic is dominant in the Arabian Peninsula today, some modern South Arabian languages, though endangered, survive, with several hundred thousand speakers across Yemen (including Socotra) and Oman.
The letters eth (⟨ð⟩, capital ⟨Ð⟩), transliterated as ⟨d⟩, and thorn (⟨þ⟩, capital ⟨Þ⟩), transliterated as ⟨th⟩, are widely used in the Icelandic language.
Although Modern Mandarin has numerous polysyllabic words, and each syllable is written with a distinct character, the conceptual link between character and word or at least morpheme remains strong, and no need is felt for word separation apart from what characters already provide.
In addition to the manuscript written by Crux there are various excerpts deposited in the archives of Prague Castle.
More popularly known as "Pu Buanga Dictionary", Dictionary of the Lushai Language became the foundation of Mizo language and literature.
Early interest In 1965, Richard Isbell created the Americana typeface for American Type Founders and included the interrobang as one of the characters.
Moving back to traditional characters on the mainland has the potential to be difficult, confusing, and time-consuming.
The characters were often depicted bleeding from their eyes, and forum members interpreted Zalgo as an unimaginable, eldritch apocalyptic figure.
Letters with single bar Letters with double bar See also Strikethrough X-bar theory (formal linguistics) Parallel (operator) Notes == References ==
Ambiguity Clarity of simplified characters Proponents feel that some traditional characters are too similar in appearance, such as 書 (shū) "book", 晝 (zhòu) "daytime", and 畫/畵 (huà) "drawing": in contrast, the simplified forms which are 书, 昼, and 画 respectively are much more distinct.
Lateral masking is a problem for the human visual perception of identical or similar entities in close proximity.
The Modern Language Association (MLA) used to indicate that an ellipsis must include spaces before and after each dot in all uses.
In sociolinguistics, a double or triple slash may also be used in the transcription of a traditional sociolinguistic interview or in other type of linguistic elicitation to represent simultaneous speech, interruptions, and certain types of speech disfluencies.
Postal romanization (1906): Early standard for international addresses Wade–Giles (1892): Transliteration.
However, some logograms still meaningfully depict the meaning of the morpheme they represent visually.
Since the Malay sections of publishing houses were mainly manned by members of the Literary Movement 1950 or their sympathisers, the Movement's style of spelling seemed to gain a widespread currency through published works.
310–320 – 403) used both a horizontal slash or hook (with or without dots) and an upright and slightly slanting dagger to represent an obelus.
The Coptic alphabet originated as a case of garshunography, the use of the Greek alphabet to write the Egyptian language.
Kateřina Voleková, Czech translation Ondřej Koupil, English translation Marcela Koupilová and David Livingstone.
English General overview In English orthography, the pronunciation of hard ⟨c⟩ is /k/ and of soft ⟨c⟩ is generally /s/.
In place of the first s in a double s, Mathewson recreated the long s in these copies, a practice widely used for both personal and business correspondence by her family, who lived on the remote island of Yell, Shetland.
Asemic art, after all, represents a kind of language that's universal and lodged deep within our unconscious minds.
Its purpose is to "indicate minor breaks in text", to call attention to a passage, or to separate sub-chapters in a book.
This action unwittingly introduced into the Pampangan literary scene the bitter orthographic conflict which had by then begun to take root at the national level between writers supportive of one spelling system and the other.
In languages that capitalize all nouns, reverential capitalization of the first two letters or the whole word can sometimes be seen.
Oliver, Lethaby introduced the Trajan's Column inscription to Johnston and as professor of design at the Royal College of Art put casts of the inscription of Trajan's Column as a standard for students to follow.
Numbers Lycian uses the following number symbols: I (vertical stroke) = 1, < ("less than" sign) (or, rarely, L or C or V or Y) = 5, O (circle) = 10; a horizontal stroke — is one half; a symbol somewhat like our letter H may mean 100.
Austroasiatic languages Khmer script (for Khmer language) Khom script (for Bahnaric languages) Chữ Nôm (historical writing for Vietnamese language) Austronesian languages Most Austronesian languages use Latin script today.
The hyphen is sometimes confused with dashes (en dash –, em dash — and others), which are wider, or with the minus sign −, which is also wider and usually drawn a little higher to match the crossbar in the plus sign +.
This system was widely used within the country but differed from the orthographies of neighboring countries of West Africa, as developed in the wake of the 1966 Bamako expert meeting on harmonizing orthographies of the cross-border languages of the region.
An open source implementation of UCA is included with the International Components for Unicode, ICU.
John Mace's Teach Yourself Arabic Verbs and Essential Grammar presents alternative forms in almost all cases when hamza is followed by a long ū.
The term featural was introduced by Geoffrey Sampson to describe the Korean alphabet and Pitman shorthand.
This practice was found in Phoenician, Aramaic, Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, and continues today with Ethiopic, though there, whitespace is gaining ground.
While many sources provide default recommendations on whether to use the serial comma as a matter of course, most also include exceptions for situations where it is necessary to avoid ambiguity (see Serial comma § Recommendations by style guides).
In 1989, following a meeting on reform of the alphabet in 1988, it was decided to adopt an orthography similar to the African reference alphabet used elsewhere in the region.
It discussed for the first time in Russian literature such poetic genres as the sonnet, the rondeau, the madrigal, and the ode.
יענקל׳ה – Yankale (as in Yankale Bodo), or the words חבר׳ה – [ˈχevre], 'guys' (which is the Yiddish pronunciation of Hebrew חבורה [χabuˈra] 'company'), or תכל׳ס – [ˈtaχles], 'in the end' or 'to conclude', from Hebrew תכלית [taχˈlit], 'ending'.
With alphabetic writing systems, phonological awareness plays a central role in reading acquisition; while phonological awareness in Chinese is much less important.
The device has a variety of uses, and it usually denotes an intentional omission or a logical "break" of varying degree in a written work.
In another textbook of the Evenki language, a standard alphabet, with the addition of the letter Ө ө.
Even for a lightly inflected language like English, the spell checker will need to consider different forms of the same word, such as plurals, verbal forms, contractions, and possessives.
Unicode The Lycian alphabet was added to the Unicode Standard in April, 2008 with the release of version 5.1.
Julien Maunoir died in Plévin, Brittany, on 28 January 1683, and was buried in the parish church grounds at the insistence of his people.
These lists are printed in the Mikraot Gedolot (rabbinical Bible), in the texts of Baer-Delitzsch and Christian David Ginsburg's Masorah vol.
In different languages In English American English The Chicago Manual of Style suggests the use of an ellipsis for any omitted word, phrase, line, or paragraph from within but not at the end of a quoted passage.
The final version, SSS-2004, was renamed International Movement Writing Alphabet (SSS-IMWA) to reflect its usefulness in applications beyond sign language.
The quotation marks 「...」, 『...』 and 〝...〟 rotate 90 degrees, as follows: See also General Punctuation, for variation selectors and CJK behaviour of the Latin quotation marks ‘...’ and “...”.
The human brain does have language centers (for spoken and gestural communication), but written language is a cultural artifact, and a very complex one requiring brain regions designed to recognize and interpret written symbols as representations of language in rapid synchronization.
Of these two scholars, the Rolbiidorj’s numerals, their names and sequencing are commonly accepted and used today, for example, in the calculations and documents pertaining to the Mongolian Government budget.
Recognising the lack of teachers in the language, Chesswas took the opportunity to publish a textbook for stations where no teachers of the language were available.
Arsenyev's recordings are judged by experts to be much more accurate than those of his predecessors.
They interact with the ambiguous consonant letters к, velar /k/ or uvular /q/, and г, velar /ɡ/ or uvular /ʁ/.
The word iroha (イロハ, often in katakana) itself can mean "the basics" in Japanese, comparable to the term "the ABCs" in English.
It may be instructive to consider an unrelated development in the evolution of the Etruscan alphabet from Greek: Greek had three letters, Γ, Κ, and Ϙ, whose sounds were not distinguished in Etruscan.
[Meaning unclear.] At top right is the Sun (18 above) crossed out in chains, meaning it will be hindered and the weather will not be good.
Isidore of Seville remarks in his Etymologiae (I.21.13) that the diple was used to mark quotations from the Bible.
The normal way in most of Europe to write the number seven is with a bar.) In medieval English scribal abbreviations, a stroke or bar was used to indicate abbreviation.
The seven-letter German sequence ⟨schtsch⟩, used to transliterate the Russian and Ukrainian letter ⟨щ⟩, as in ⟨Borschtsch⟩ [bɔʁʃtʃ] for Russian/Ukrainian ⟨борщ⟩ (Russian: [borɕː], Ukrainian: [bɔrʃtʃ]) "borscht", is a sequence of a trigraph ⟨sch⟩ [ʃ] and a tetragraph ⟨tsch⟩ [t͡ʃ].
It has been estimated that he used more than 400 new words in his collections of 1904 and 1907 alone.
In the 1840s, on behalf of the Archbishop of Kamchatka and Aleutian Innokentiy (Veniaminov), church texts began to be translated into the Even language.
"From orthography to phonetics: ERP measures of grapheme-to-phoneme conversion mechanisms in reading".
Reforms of Kapampangan orthography in the Latin script began with the adoption toward the end of Spanish colonial rule of an indigenized orthography.
Visually similar symbols The dagger should not be confused with the symbols U+271D ✝ LATIN CROSS, U+253C ┼ BOX DRAWINGS LIGHT VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL, or other cross symbols.
Tall man lettering (tall-man lettering or tallman lettering) is the practice of writing part of a drug's name in upper case letters to help distinguish sound-alike, look-alike drugs from one another in order to avoid medication errors.
Thus, for instance, Hart documents that the pronunciation of words that had Middle English long /iː/ but shifted to /aɪ/ in Modern English was still variable in his days, with some speakers retaining /iː/ in some words, but a diphthong /ɛɪ/ (spelled ei by Hart) already common in others.
Ideographic runes appear to have mainly been used for saving space, but they were also mainly used without inflection.
The first letters were invented in Ancient Egypt to serve as an aid in writing Egyptian hieroglyphs; these are referred to as Egyptian uniliteral signs by lexicographers.
This use of digraphs with ⟨h⟩ to indicate lenition is distinct from the other uses which derive from Latin.
The character is referred to as a hyphen, a minus sign, or a dash according to the context where it is being used.
In order to avoid a complete re-typesetting of the entire text for this discrepancy, the publishers commonly shifted 神 so that it also took two spaces and the rest of the text could be typeset identically with 上帝.) Ping tai Ping tai (Chinese: 平抬, literally "level shift") is another form.
In rhetoric, a parenthesis (pl.: parentheses; from the Ancient Greek word παρένθεσις parénthesis 'injection, insertion', literally '(a) putting in beside') or parenthetical phrase is an explanatory or qualifying word, phrase, clause, or sentence inserted into a passage.
37–41 Vékony, Gábor (1985): Késő népvándorláskori rovásfeliratok [Runic inscriptions from the Late Migration Period].
Efforts of language planners have been hampered by the significant dialectal divisions in Romani: the absence of standard phonology, in turn, makes the selection of a single written form problematic.
Stroke order per polity The modern governments of mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Japan have standardized official stroke orders to be taught in schools.
Relaunch: 2022–present In February 2022, Bob McCalden, a former IT director, took over ownership of the APS and re-launched it, together with a new website.
There are some exceptions to this rule, mainly occurring when the right side of a character has a lower enclosure (see below).
There's no clear consensus." Regardless, some far-right users of Twitter saw the tweet as a genuine signal of support for antisemitism, and other users found the tweet to be in poor taste even as a joke.
Full Braille representation Origins The kun'yomi pronunciation of the character 濁 (daku in on'yomi) is nigori; hence the dakuten may also be called the nigori-ten.
Semasiography ('writing with signs', from Greek semasia 'signification' + graphia 'writing') is the use of symbols, called semasiographs, to "communicate information without the necessary intercession of forms of speech".
This list does not cover local variations of international scripts, such as which diacritics are used.
It was recognized, though, that if Demotic had become the state language, it might well have alienated millions of non-Greek speaking Orthodox believers within the potentially much larger future borders.
The term "alternating case" has been used as early as the 1970s, in several studies on word identification.
In the latter case, they both contributed enough significant material to the screenplay to receive credit but did not work together.
Capitalization of multi-word place names, institutions, and titles of works English usage is not consistent, but generally prepositions and articles are not capitalized: "the Forest of Dean", "Gone with the Wind", "University of Southampton".
Use In early Unicode (versions 1.0–2.1.9) U+02BC was preferred for the punctuation apostrophe in English.
The earliest Classical Greek and Roman texts were written in all capital letters with minimal spacing; punctuation was sparse and not standardized.
The Microsoft Windows family of operating systems inherited the MS-DOS behavior and so still support either character – but individual Windows programs and sub-systems may, wrongly, only accept the backslash as a path delimiter, or may misinterpret a forward slash if it is used as such.
It was rejected by the Armenian diaspora, most of which speak Western Armenian, including the Armenian communities in Iran, which also speak Eastern Armenian and still use the classical orthography of the Armenian alphabet.
Additionally, in Japanese, the logographic (Chinese-derived) reading is called the on'yomi reading, and the morphographic reading (native Japanese) is called the kun'yomi reading.
Symbols and semiotics Semiotics is the study of signs, symbols, and signification as communicative behavior.
Protoscholastic writing refers to the period in the Middle Ages when writing styles changed from liturgical models, mere adjuncts to the recitation of prayer, to a more complex form.
In FoxPro/Visual FoxPro, it is also used to indicate explicit pass by reference of variables when calling procedures or functions (but it is not an address operator).
In manuscripts written before Hus, all of the following representations were in use: rz, rrz, rs, rzs, rzss, zr, sr, rzs and rzz.
It was one of the two main scripts used by merchants in northwest India, the other being Langdi employed in the Punjab region.
Generally equivalent to the baseline universal standard of formal English orthography mentioned above; that is, only the first word is capitalized, except for proper nouns and other words which are generally capitalized by a more specific rule.
This cursive form influenced the monumental form more and more and gradually changed into the Arabic alphabet.
The 1993 edition of the Ukrainian Spelling Book, which resembles previous editions and is still in force, extended the rule of nine to the proper names of foreign locations, such as Argentina, Chile, and Syria.
Kodava Takk is generally written in the Kannada script, but can also be found written in the Malayalam script, especially along the borders with Kerala.
John Douglas Chesswas MBE (1919 – 28 February 2009) was a British author, linguist and policy advisor in Uganda.
San tai San tai (Chinese: 三抬, literally "triple shift") as above, but three characters above a normal line; since Chinese writers customarily leave a margin of two characters for tai tou from the paper border, a san tai would require the first character to appear outside of the page borders.
This revision created the standard script, known as tongki fuka sindaha hergen (Manchu: ᡨ᠋ᠣᠩᡴᡳ ᡶ᠋ᡠᡴᠠ ᠰᡳᠨ᠋ᡩ᠋ᠠᡥᠠ ᡥᡝᡵᡤᡝᠨ) — the "script with dots and circles".
Example in poetry The poem "Job's Job" from Richard Lederer's The Word Circus is an example of the use of capitonyms: Other languages In other languages there are more, or fewer, of these pairs depending on that language's capitalization rules.
In Japanese, list items are typically connected either with the particle と ("and") throughout or separated simply by commas, as in 母と父と私 or 母、父、私.
Example, Zn | Zn2+ || Cu2+ | Cu Single vertical lines show components of the cell which do not mix, usually being in different phases.
These are easier to understand when reading commands (some software does not care about the number of hyphen-minuses, and either does not allow combinations of single-letter options, or requires the user to rearrange them, so they do not match a long option).
In situations where both words should be capitalized (such as the beginning of a sentence), there will be nothing to distinguish between them except the context in which they are used.
In this standard, 艹 is written vertical–horizontal–vertical–horizontal, instead of the traditional vertical–horizontal–horizontal–vertical.
Diple (Ancient Greek: διπλῆ, meaning double, referring to the two lines in the mark >) was a mark used in the margins of ancient Greek manuscripts to draw attention to something in the text.
He sided with Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian, whose army entered Vicenza in June 1509, accompanied by members of the Vicentine nobility, including the Thiene, Chiericati, and Porto families.
'from the Shah's or King's mouth', Gurmukhī: ਸ਼ਾਹਮੁਖੀ) is the right-to-left abjad-based script developed from the Perso-Arabic alphabet used for the Punjabi language varieties, predominantly in Punjab, Pakistan.
"The Semiotics of the Writing Systems of Tolkien's Middle-earth." In Semiotics around the World: Synthesis in Diversity, I-II, ed.
The rule of nine (Ukrainian: Правило дев'ятки) is a orthographic rule of the Ukrainian language, which prohibits writing the letter "i" in loanwords after nine consonants (д, т, з, с, ц, ж, ш, ч, and р) if the next letter is a consonant (except for "й").
Syriac kap ܟܟܟ ܟ‎ Character encodings See also Ca (Indic) Gaf Gueh Ka (Indic) Ngaph == References ==
(presumably assimilating to any following consonant), in which case [VN] would be written with a double nasal: aŋŋ etc.
In mathematical texts that include the plus sign, the Unicode minus is preferred to the hyphen-minus, because its metrics match the plus sign in level and length.
History In Ancient Egyptian, determinatives may have been used as much to demarcate word boundaries as to disambiguate the semantics of words.
The service mark symbol is less commonly used than the trademark sign, especially outside the United States.
The European ordering rules (EOR / EN 13710) define an ordering for strings written in languages that are written with the Latin, Greek and Cyrillic alphabets.
They were at 0xAE and 0xAF (174 and 175) in CP437 on the IBM PC, and 0xC7 and 0xC8 in Mac OS Roman, and placed in several of ISO 8859 code pages (namely: -1, -7, -8, -9, -13, -15, -16) at 0xAB and 0xBB (171 and 187).
The Swedish heathen law, for example, begins with: Givr ᛘ oquæþins orð manni · þu ær æi mans maki oc eig ᛘ i brysti · Ek ær ᛘ sum þv (Old Swedish) Giver [man] okvädningsord till annan: Du är ej mans make och ej [man] i bröstet.
Heffernan recalls that: "The old people worried that this school business didn't fit well with our culture.
On the other hand, others worry that this approach could prompt educators "to abandon research-tested practices that are only just now securing a foothold in districts".
Adoption Some writers omit the upside-down question mark in the case of a short unambiguous question such as: "Quién viene?" ("Who comes?").
of a word], which the apex makes entirely distinct from the ending that m or n makes, with a meaning entirely diverse in words in which it is employed.
Many languages written in the Latin alphabet make use of diacritics, and those letters using diacritics are sometimes considered separate letters within the language's alphabet.
Comparison chart Note: The bopomofo extended characters in the zhuyin row require a UTF-8 font capable of displaying Unicode values 31A0–31B7 (ex.
Heterograms are frequent in cuneiform scripts, such as the Akkadian cuneiform, which uses Sumerian heterograms, or the Anatolian cuneiform, which uses both Sumerian and Akkadian heterograms.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
Such ambiguous positioning occurs in old books like the Codex Leningradensis (around year 1006) whose text on paper was extremely compacted with minimal spacing between letters.
For example: דּוּ״חַ (singular), דּוּ״חוֹת (plural), "report" represents דין וחשבון; and מ״כ (masculine), מַ״כִּית (feminine), "squad commander" represents מפקד(ת) כיתה.
They occur in Irish orthography, and many of them can be analysed as a tetragraph followed by the vowels ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩ on either side to indicate that the neighbouring consonants are palatalized ("slender").
Yakut дь /ɟ/, нь /ɲ/ See also Languages using Cyrillic List of Cyrillic letters Bigram Diacritic Diphthong Typographic ligature Notes == References ==
Without letter case, a "unified European alphabet" – such as ABБCГDΔΕЄЗFΦGHIИJ...Z, with an appropriate subset for each language – is feasible; but considering letter case, it becomes very clear that these alphabets are rather distinct sets of symbols.
Other typographical examples include ⟨§⟩ 'section', ⟨€⟩ 'euro', ⟨£⟩ 'pound sterling', and ⟨©⟩ 'copyright'.
The Commission on the Filipino Language (Filipino: Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino) has published several standardized prescriptive orthographies for select languages of the Philippines.
The oldest parts of the Gothic Bible, contained in the Codex Argenteus, are estimated to be from the fourth century.
Paragraph signs in non-Latin writing systems In Sanskrit and other Indian languages, text blocks are commonly written in stanzas.
Some other Semitic languages, including Northwest Semitic languages, are attested, including Aramaic and Hebrew.
Evil makes exaggerated use of air quotes when explaining matters to his henchmen, particularly while using real phrases he erroneously believes himself to have coined such as "laser" and "Death Star." Donald Trump used air quotes when he criticized “quote-President” Obama's refugee policies.
The main sources of reference for Mongolian numerals are mathematical and philosophical works of Janj khutugtu A.Rolbiidorj (1717-1766) and D.Injinaash (1704-1788).
The various official stroke orders agree on the vast majority of characters, but each has its differences.
The acute and the circumflex indicate stress and vowel height, the grave indicates crasis, the tilde represents nasalization, and the cedilla marks the result of a historical lenition.
It first appeared in the 11th century in the sequence ii (as in ingeníí), then spread to i adjacent to m, n, u, and finally to all lowercase is.
Formally this is a special case of quotient by an equivalence relation, where g ∼ h {\displaystyle g\sim h} iff g = h n {\displaystyle g=hn} for some n ∈ N {\displaystyle n\in N} .
It is often connected with Greek θέω (theō), "run", and θεωρέω (theoreō), "to look at, to see, to observe", Latin feriae "holidays", fanum "temple", and also Armenian di-k` "gods".
The double dagger should not be confused with the U+2628 ☨ CROSS OF LORRAINE, or U+2626 ☦ ORTHODOX CROSS, or U+01C2 ǂ LATIN LETTER ALVEOLAR CLICK in IPA, or U+167E ᙾ CANADIAN SYLLABICS WOODS-CREE FINAL TH.
In Sanskrit, the additional symbol of two vertical lines U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA is used to mark the end of a poetic verse.
On the other hand, Pietro Bembo argued that the Italian standard should be based on the language of the Florentine classics of the 14th century, especially Petrarch and Boccaccio (Dante's language was considered too unpolished).
Rumelhart and McClelland then extended the idea by expressing the triples in phonetic terms as Wickelfeatures.
Context-sensitive spell checkers There has been research on developing algorithms that are capable of recognizing a misspelled word, even if the word itself is in the vocabulary, based on the context of the surrounding words.
The custom "also had the unfortunate effect of suggesting that Broad Scots was not a separate language system, but rather a divergent or inferior form of English".
In the Imperial Liao-Jin-Yuan Three Histories National Language Explanation (欽定遼金元三史國語解 Qinding Liao Jin Yuan sanshi guoyujie) commissioned by the Qianlong Emperor, the Manchu alphabet is used to write Evenki (Solon) words.
The upside-down (also inverted, turned or rotated) question mark ¿ and exclamation mark ¡ are punctuation marks used to begin interrogative and exclamatory sentences or clauses in Spanish and some languages that have cultural ties with Spain, such as Asturian and Waray.
Sometimes, a minor word such as a preposition is not capitalized within the acronym, such as "WoW" for "World of Warcraft".
This aKaḥ savarṇe dīrghaḥ rule takes precedence over the general iKaḥ yaṆ aCi rule mentioned above, because this rule is more specific.
In the 1965 Bewitched episode "Prodigy", Gladys Kravitz (played by Alice Pearce) uses air quotes several times while reciting reviews of her brother's violin recitals.
A year later she compiled the book «Первая книга для чтения на тунгусском языке,» or «Әwәnkil dukuwuntin,» lit.
The comparison table was built by integrating the General List of Simplified Chinese Characters and the First List of Processed Variant Chinese Characters.
See also Collation – Assembly of written information into a standard order European ordering rules – Puts words into standard sequence ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 2 – Subcommittee for coded character sets Unicode – Character encoding standard External links and references ISO site, "ISO/IEC 14651:2016".
A serial comma following "Kris Kristofferson" would help prevent this being understood as Kris Kristofferson and Robert Duvall being the ex-wives in question.
At a third conference in Vienna in 1994, the results were recommended to the respective governments for acceptance.
The interrobang was in vogue for much of the 1960s; the word interrobang appeared in some dictionaries, and the mark was used in some magazine and newspaper articles.
Names in other languages In many languages other than English, although most typewriters included the symbol, the use of @ was less common before email became widespread in the mid-1990s.
The Congress Spelling System (Malay: Ejaan Kongres) is a spelling reform of Malay Rumi Script introduced during the third Malay Congress held in Johor Bahru and Singapore in 1956.
In early Old English of the 7th and 8th centuries, the digraph ⟨th⟩ was used until the Old English Latin alphabet adapted the runic letter ⟨þ⟩, as well as ⟨ð⟩, a modified version of the Latin letter ⟨d⟩, to represent this sound.
Other European languages eventually adopted these new letters and distinctions in their orthographies, before it was largely abandoned in contemporary Italian, which generally spells the sound [j] with an I.
In native German words, the doubling of ⟨z⟩, which corresponds to /ts/, is replaced by the digraph ⟨tz⟩.
More accurately, however, the Crown script isn't really a script of its own; it's more of an addition to existing scripts.
Robotic and computer characters often use square speech balloons and angular fonts reminiscent of OCR-A, suggesting a stilted, emotionless cadence.
Another convention in Middle Tamil (Sen-Tamil) is the use of silent vowels to address a mark of respect when beginning proper nouns.
"To identify themselves with a group." In the 1940s, Mongolia replaced the traditional Mongolian script first briefly with the Mongolian Latin alphabet and then, under Soviet influence, with the Mongolian Cyrillic alphabet.
The use of the apologetic apostrophe has become less widespread since the appearance of the 'Style Sheet' in 1947.
Early history: 2001–2019 The Apostrophe Protection Society (APS) was founded in 2001 by John Richards, a retired sub-editor, in response to his observations of widespread incorrect use of the apostrophe.
As, in these languages, use of script often has cultural or political connotations, proclamation of an official script is sometimes criticized as having a goal of influencing culture or politics or both.
Current psycholinguistic models of dyslexia are "largely developed on the basis of alphabetic writing systems such as English", but the amount of research on some logographic orthographies, Chinese in particular, is also fairly significant.
By contrast, the occurrence of the definite article "the" cannot be modeled by simple probabilistic laws because the number of nouns with definite article depends on the subject matter.
In 2004, the German federal minister of education and research, Edelgard Bulmahn, announced that this committee was to be given wide-ranging powers to make decisions about German spelling.
It is a type of assimilation, or, more specifically, anticipatory (or regressive) assimilation at a distance.
The digraph ⟨rr⟩, pronounced as a distinct alveolar trill, was never officially considered to be a letter in the Spanish alphabet, and the same is true ⟨gu⟩ and ⟨qu⟩ (for /ɡ/ and /k/ respectively before ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩).
The change began in the 7th century, and by the 14th century, the protoscholastic model was the standard.
In telling legends or relating something that happened, words can be drawn out for emphasis, or said quickly to emphasize an abrupt or sudden event.
Level 5 An optional, and usually omitted, fifth level can distinguish typographical differences, including whether the text is italic, normal or bold.
The manifesto concluded that [see below for supplements]: Big letters as shown in supplement one are to be called Crown Letters; taking into account the form in which these letters are enthroned and because they were developed under the will of the Crown.
And, still others suggest that one solution to differentiated instruction might be to utilize the "walk to read" approach.
In 1953 the family were "as good as pushed" into going to live at Santa Teresa (now the Ltyentye Apurte Community) and, once there, Heffernan was forced to live separately from her family in dormitory accommodation associated with the school and was only allowed to visit her family on weekends.
Effectively it re-introduced the space between words in religious texts, especially on the Continent.
In Japanese writing, it was adapted into a dot placed at the top-right corner of a character to denote the "muddiness" or nasality of consonants, as well as of the nasalized vowels /ĩ/ and /ũ/ adapted from the Chinese /ŋ/.
The paragraph, a section of prose typically dealing with the same topic, evolved from the use of the paragraphos, and its name comes from the French form of the term, paragraphe.
It was an extension of the Greek alphabet, with half a dozen additional letters for sounds not found in Greek.
Attack follows Ataman based on comparison of their third letters, and Baa comes after all of the others because it has a different first letter.
This orthography is not a single standardised form, but rather a set of orthographical practices which exhibit a basic "core" of shared graphemes and a small amount of divergence in several areas.
After-effects These reforms, which were part of the likbez policy carried out by the Soviets, have deeply affected not only the Eastern Armenian alphabet, but also the set of rules and conventions governing writing and word formation.
In the theory of writing systems, homophony (from the Greek: ὁμός, homós, "same" and Greek: φωνή, phōnē, "sound") refers to the presence or use of different signs (phonograms) for the same syllabic value, i.e.
After the advent of printing in Europe in 1455, printers made extensive use of both the italic and Roman ampersands.
Usually the difference is evident from the rest of the word, but when it is not, the sequence ю...ь is used for /jy/, as in юнь /jyn/ 'cheap'.
In his book, Butler condemned the vagaries of traditional English spelling and proposed the adoption of a system whereby 'men should write altogeđer according to đe sound now generally received'.
A few of these notable events are listed below: FontFeed credits National Punctuation Day with the revival of the interrobang.
They are deprecated as substitutes for small-cap formatting; rather, the basic character set should be used with suitable formatting controls as described in the preceding sections.
Computer-based word processors and typesetting software such as troff and TeX allow users to arrange text in a manner previously available only to professional typesetters.
Turkish In Turkish, an exclamation mark is used after a sentence or phrase for emphasis, and is common following both commands and the addressees of such commands.
For example, one can use the font-variant: unicase property to render text as unicase in supported browsers.
In previous centuries of classical scholarship, scholars who published texts from inscriptions, papyri, or manuscripts used divergent conventions to indicate the condition of the text and editorial corrections or restorations.
It is created by rotating right (clockwise) the wavy dash symbol (U+3030 〰 WAVY DASH) to form a vertical wave-like pattern.
In the 3rd century BC, Aristophanes of Byzantium invented a system of single dots (théseis) at varying levels, which separated verses and indicated the amount of breath needed to complete each fragment of the text when reading aloud.
In addition, there are single line and double line versions of the combining macron below, a diacritic that applies to single letters only.
That is, one would write ehôsângôj cîujâude for the nonsense phrase eĥoŝanĝoj ĉiuĵaŭde ("echo-change every Thursday").
The term "garshunography" comes from Garshuni, a term of uncertain origin that refers to the writing of the Arabic language in the Syriac script.
However, Mizrahi Jews and Israeli Arabs have differentiated between these letters as in other Semitic languages.
Similarly, Greek vowels did not distinguish between short and long, and thus Greek Aljamiado had the same issues and shortcomings as Ottoman orthography.
Examples of unetymological ⟨th⟩ in English are the name of the River Thames from Middle English Temese and the name Anthony (though the ⟨th⟩ is often pronounced /θ/ under the influence of the spelling) from Latin Antonius.
The system is not completely standardized, and, given the differences between dialects and speakers, many words have more than one “correct” spelling and pronunciation.
There are six vowel letters, one for each of the four oral vowels of Lycian, and separate letters for two of the four nasal vowels.
The mora e (spelt え & 衣) and ye had merged into /je/ in the 10th century, slightly before the poem was written down in 1079.
However, due to lack of availability of a double hyphen in most fonts, an equal sign is often used as a substitute.
The Celtiberian script is a Paleohispanic script that was the main writing system of the Celtiberian language, an extinct Continental Celtic language, which was also occasionally written using the Latin alphabet.
Resources that should not be available have been accessed with paths using particular mixes, such as http://example.net/secure\private.aspx.
-em, -emi were to be differentiated from -ym, -ymi for instrumental and locative according to an adjective's nominative ending.
Except for doubled trigraphs like German ⟨schsch⟩, hexagraphs are found only in Irish vowels, where the outside letters indicate whether the neighbouring consonant is "broad" or "slender".
There is also a Naxi tradition of pictographic symbols called dongba; this may sometimes be glossed with geba for clarification, since a dongba text may be intelligible only to its author.
History and implementations Functionality to sort by natural sort order is now widely available in software libraries for many programming languages and operating systems.
The term was devised by James McClelland and David Rumelhart in reference to the work of Wayne Wickelgren in 1969.
Small capitals are not found in all font designs, as traditionally in printing they were primarily used within the body text of books and so are often not found in fonts that are not intended for this purpose, such as sans-serif types which historically were not preferred for book printing.
"Shakespear" was less widely used into the 19th and 20th centuries, increasingly by advocates of rational spelling.
The DUCET is customizable for different languages, and some such customizations can be found in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR).
Another example is the root of the verb "to heal", which has the form 낫 nas- before a consonant, as in 낫다 natda, but the form 나 before a vowel, as in 나아 na.
This tradition existed among some Greek Muslims from Crete as well as Epirote Muslims in Ioannina who wrote their Cretan Greek in the Arabic alphabet.
Another is the digraph |th|, which represents two different phonemes (as in then and thin) and replaced the old letters |ð| and |þ|.
This is now considered old-fashioned, and when it was used it was usually seen in documents sent between emperor and ministers when the minister mentioned the emperor.
Although these forms were prescribed to be pronounced differently, the difference was not usually observed in everyday speech; pronunciations were used interchangeably, the one with и being more common.
In the Arab world, where Eastern Arabic numerals are used for writing numbers, a different character is used to separate the integer and fractional parts of numbers.
Unicode The Coorgi-Cox alphabet was proposed to Unicode in 2012, and as of 2021 it was tagged as a "Script Proposal in Progress".
Biography The son of a poor priest, Trediakovsky became the first Russian commoner to receive a humanistic education abroad, at the Sorbonne in Paris (1727–1730) where he studied philosophy, linguistics and mathematics.
The same was true of the United Kingdom until the 19th century, when it adopted a spelling pronunciation, with an audible h.
Command line The hyphen-minus character is often used when specifying command-line options, a convention popularized by Unix.
Pe is the seventeenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Arabic fāʾ ف‎, Aramaic pē 𐡐, Hebrew pē פ‎, Phoenician pē 𐤐, and Syriac pē ܦ.
Encoding The letter apostrophe is encoded at U+02BC ʼ MODIFIER LETTER APOSTROPHE, which is in the Spacing Modifier Letters Unicode block.
Dhofari The Dhofari script is a South Semitic writing system is a group of related South Semitic scripts used across southern and southeastern Arabia, from Dhofar in Oman to Al Mahrah in Yemen and as far as Socotra.
Code reference See also Dash#Swung dash Tilde#Unicode and Shift JIS encoding of wave dash Japanese punctuation#Wave dash == References ==
While there, he studied various subjects at the Sorbonne University—including the history and politics of the Middle East.
Juǀʼhoan has five vowel qualities, which may be nasalized, glottalized, murmured, or combinations of these, and most of these possibilities occur both long and short.
Ampersand is the name of a reactive programming language, which uses relation algebra to specify information systems.
Discussion regarding the use of all caps for headlines centers on the greater emphasis offered by all caps versus the greater legibility offered by lower-case letters.
In English Philosophical, religious, and political terms A particular example of where capitonyms are prominent is in terminology relating to philosophy, religion, and politics.
Although it is not covered under "Unified Ideographs", it is treated as a CJK character for all other intents and purposes.
Spanish is an alphabet with shallow orthography; there is clear one-to-one correspondence between phonemes and graphemes.
See also Hokkien Hokkien culture Written Hokkien Hokkien entertainment media Taiwanese Hokkien Singapore Hokkien Penang Hokkien Southern Malaysia Hokkien Medan Hokkien Philippine Hokkien Speak Hokkien Campaign == References ==
Other featural writing systems include stenographies and constructed scripts of hobbyists and fiction writers (such as Tengwar), many of which feature advanced graphic designs corresponding to phonologic properties.
The Abakada was replaced in 1976 with an expanded alphabet containing an additional 11 letters (C, CH, F, J, LL, Ñ, Q, RR, V, X, and Z) which was in turn replaced with the current 28-letter modern alphabet.
Hangul has a few vowel trigraphs, ㅙ /wɛ/ and ㅞ /we/ (from oai and uei), which are not entirely predictable.
CJK Symbols and Punctuation is a Unicode block containing symbols and punctuation used for writing the Chinese, Japanese and Korean languages.
Bullokar's alphabet Bullokar's alphabet's characters were presented in the black-letter or "gothic" writing style commonly used at the time and also in Roman type.
Zhuang languages were traditionally written with Chinese characters, but are now usually written with romanized alphabets.
the writing conventions of writing in the Arabic script for Adamawa Fulfulde were generally agreed upon and standardized by the 1990s.
Understanding that there is a direct relationship between letters and sounds enables an emergent reader to decode the pronunciation of an unknown written word and associate it with a known spoken word.
The standard covers languages used by the European Union, the European Free Trade Association, and parts of the former Soviet Union.
This referred to the improved ability of people to deduce letters if the letters were presented within a word, rather than a mix of random letters.
It was sometimes added to completed texts as a form of obelism alongside other marginalia, including the obelus.
Different groups in North Africa have different preferences of writing system, often motivated by ideology and politics.
Scheme This allows Pāṇini to refer to groups of phonemes with pratyāhāras, which consist of a phoneme-letter and an anubandha (and often the vowel a to aid pronunciation) and signify all of the intervening phonemes.
Older views on alphabetisation and standardisation A book on filing rules from 1918 gives an example showing Mc and M' treated as abbreviations, i.e.
Multiple spaces are eliminated by default in most World Wide Web content, whether or not they are associated with sentences.
History The IMWA was originally designed for describing sign language and consequently was named Sutton's Sign Symbol Sequence (SSS) by its inventor, Valerie Sutton.
Speakers of a language often privilege the spelling of words over common pronunciation, leading to a preference for, or prestige of, spelling pronunciation, with the written language affecting and changing the spoken language.
While the word phoneme refers to the sound itself, phonogram instead refers to the written representation of the sound.
The documentary The story of the Morbidelli racing team is told in the documentary film Morbidelli - a story of men and fast motorcycles (2014), by directors Jeffrey Zani and Matthew Gonzales.
The indexed table turns vertically or horizontally, and its movement could be continuous or intermittent.
OMZ manufactures a wide range of steel, custom and industrial components for nuclear power plants, petrochemical and mining operations and utilities.
Figures The main production work is carried out in the establishments of Formigine and Ubersetto, with over 530,000 square feet of facilities and a staff of about 400.
Initially, production was focused on multi-machines, pasteurizers and batch freezers, until 1974, when Genesio Bravo conceived and built the first multi-purpose machine for the production of artisanal gelato, called "Trittico".
The company was consequently seized by organizations and persons tied with Islamic Republic officials.
In June 2006, a live 5-axis STEP-NC machining demonstration was hosted by Airbus at the Université Paul Sabatier Laboratoire de Génie mécanique in Toulouse.
Standards The widespread use of scaffolding systems, along with the profound importance that they earned in modern applications such as civil engineering projects and temporary structures, led to the definition of a series of standards covering a vast number of specific issues involving scaffolding.
Non Sparking Monel Drums are widely used in hazardous environments exposed to flammable particles or corrosive chemicals.
Gallery of scaffold types Putlog scaffold In addition to the Jody couplers (discussed above), there are also Jody tubes.
Hand tools similar to linishing belts but much smaller and more suitable for small surfaces are also used.
Operation Stankoprom JSC, within the framework of Rostec State Corporation, has the status of a center for technological audit of technological equipment purchased by the corporation's organizations, as well as ensuring centralized supplies of machine tool products to the corporation's enterprises.
Subcompact tractors, the size between a compact tractor and lawn tractor, are also often sold in backhoe loader setup, sometimes with a belly-mounted mower also included.
A vibrating feeder or vibratory feeder is an industrial machine used to feed material to a process or machine.
Other Case sealers can also be categorized as either adjustable to fit production runs of a uniform box size or random, capable of handling a mixed variety of box sizes without machine adjustment.
The Third Blast Furnace, which restarted only two and a half months after the earthquake, had become a 'symbol of recovery', but was suspended in October 2017 in order to strengthen competitiveness.
After a crisis, the industry starts the production of forced hot air rotary ovens for many years, until 1982 when PFM starts reducing the production of ovens while the flow pack catches on.
According to Dhaka Tribune there is a strong syndicate involved in embezzling funds from the company.
The "Electric Worksite" study conducted 2024 in Gothenburg with the participation of Volvo, investigated the feasibility of fully-electric construction sites using real examples in the city.
One must make sure a high-temperature epoxy is used in the manufacturing of the vacuum table before it makes contact with hot substrates.
See also Check weigher Multihead weigher Quality assurance Validation and verification References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
High speed spindle High speed spindles are used strictly in machines, like CNC mills, designed for metal work.
A discontinuous filament winding machine (DFW machine or DW machine) is a machine for laying fiberglass filament windings over a cylindrical mould or mandrel bar using a carriage that is traveling along the axis of that mandrel.
The bar puller serves to draw bars into the lathe without operators having to feed the machine with material each time it is required.
This setup did not prove as effective as desired and the processes were separated and the modern paver was on its way.
These conveyors are suitable for light applications up to 50 kg (110 lb) such as cardboard boxes and tote boxes.
Radial drill press is a special variant where the spindle also is attached to a slide so that the drill can also be moved radially between each drilling.
In 2018, Sulzer acquired US company JWC Environmental, LLC, a provider of solids reduction and removal products such as grinders, screens and dissolved air flotation system for municipal, industrial and commercial wastewater applications.
For example, a clamp or vise can be used to hold the workpiece, and the clamp or vise itself can be attached to grooves in the drilling table.
In 2013 the Morgan won the HumanityPlus Uplift Personal Manufacturing Prize and third place in the Gauteng Accelerator Program.
Process A single-point cutting tool is rigidly held in the tool holder, which is mounted on the ram.
A typical motorized roller conveyor zone can handle carton items weighing up to approximately 35 kg (75 lbs.).
Mechanical couplers can be advantageous in comparison with conventional methods of lap splicing because of the requirement for less steel for overlapping.
The company, still producing paper machinery, has extended its activities to engineering of auxiliary equipment for paper machines in its historic facilities.
Rotary tables are made with a solid base, which has provision for clamping onto another table or fixture.
Manufacturers Britain was a major exporter of steam rollers over the years, with the firm of Aveling and Porter probably being the most famous and the most prolific.
Gas–solid mixing Gas–solid mixing may be conducted to transport powders or small particulate solids from one place to another, or to mix gaseous reactants with solid catalyst particles.
Packaging Machinery Technology (ISSN-1556-1658) was a trade publication and web site owned by PMMI for packaging and packaging machinery manufacturers and packaging engineers in the United States and Canada.
Today, this type has been almost completely displaced by electronic thermal transfer devices with built-in keyboard and display, and an integrated cartridge containing the label material (and print ribbon, if used).
The direct contact method of heat sealing utilizes a constantly heated die or sealing bar to apply heat to a specific contact area or path to seal or weld the thermoplastics together.
Co-founder Volker Pape was elected to the Supervisory Board on June 1, 2018, naming Carsten Salewski the new Director of Sales/Operations.
In 1984, HEPCO development project was designed in collaboration with Liebherr & Volvo companies, aiming at fabrication of steel structures of construction equipment.
In August 2023, it was announced Siemens had signed an agreement to acquire the Veldhoven-headquartered eBus, eTruck and passenger vehicle fast charging technology company, Heliox.
The company entered the Australian market in 2018 with the acquisition of Millsom Hoists, who had been their distributor in the area for thirty years previously.
On 21 May 2024, YASA received approval to establish its new headquarters at a former RAF base in Bicester, Oxfordshire.
The tool is similar to a rotary table except that it is designed to be tilted as well as rotated and often allows positive locking at finer gradations of rotation, including through differential indexing.
Unlike iron and steel and alloys, which are vulnerable to corrosion without the application of paints, epoxy granite is generally resistant to most common solvents, acids, alkalis, and cutting fluids.
In water hoisting In energy production The bucket wheel design is also used to capture the water energy in water-wheels or water turbines like Pelton wheels.
This setup allows the machining of spiral or helical features such as spiral gears, worms, or screw type parts because the part is simultaneously rotated at the same time it is moved in the horizontal direction.
See also Heat gun References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
Within a year, they were being exported around the world, including to France, India and the United States.
Lewis has identified in English and French sources four mentions of wheelbarrows between 1172 and 1222, three of them designated with a different term.
A Drum handler is a piece of mechanical equipment that is used to securely grip, lift and transport cylindrical modules such as steel drums, barrels, plastic drums and fiber drums.
The photodiode generates a waveform that is used to measure the widths of the bars and spaces in the barcode.
Also known as XY stages, XY tables are motorized linear slides with linear motion based in bearings which are driven by a drive mechanism, typically a linear motor.
In addition to a control to raise and lower the forks (also known as blades or tines), the operator can tilt the mast to compensate for a load's tendency to angle the blades toward the ground and risk slipping off the forks.
The shape of the bucket can vary from the truncated conical shape of an actual bucket to more scoop-like or spoon-like shapes akin to water turbines.
The company was part of Japan's industrial buildup before and during World War II, then, like the rest of Japanese industry, was humbled by the war's outcome.
Bead rollers also can be used in an artistic and creative form by allowing metalworkers to create unique designs and patterns on metal.
However, with production based on the open-hearth furnace, the future of flat production in Linz would be too expensive.
The first trains produced at either facility under ABB ownership were for an order for 22 three-carriage Class 320 electric multiple units, built at ABB York for Glasgow's suburban railways in 1990.
For example, lasers can detect chlorophyll by stimulating fluorescence using specific wavelengths; which is a process that is very effective for removing foreign material from green vegetables.
Applications A trencher may be combined with a drainage pipe or geotextile feeder unit and backfiller, so drain or textile may be placed and the trench filled in one pass.
Parting off tool This is similar to a cutoff tool, in that a discrete part is cut from a sheet or strip of metal along a desired geometric path.
Record keeping for construction equipment is often poor, making identification of recovered items difficult.
Dymo has received criticism for using a razor and blades model by forcing customers to purchase genuine Dymo label rolls.
This is the direction the drum is rotated while the concrete is being transported to the building site.
Seal strength is not only relevant to opening force and package integrity, but to measuring the packaging processes’ ability to produce consistent seals.
Gallery References Bibliography Holland, Max (1989), When the Machine Stopped: A Cautionary Tale from Industrial America, Boston: Harvard Business School Press, ISBN 978-0-87584-208-0, OCLC 246343673.
ITW Mima Packagings Systems is a member of the Process and Packaging Machinery Association (PPMA) == References ==
Adjusting to the numerous developments in its production, the company acquired expertise in this field that in the 1950s they decided to make it their sole business.
The bulk can be composed of different substances and the aim of the operation is to blend it or to improve the efficiency of a reaction by a better contact between reactive product.
Such rotary transfer machines are used for producing a large number of parts in fairly short cycle times.
Because they most often have three jaws, the term three-jaw chuck without other qualification is understood by machinists to mean a self-centering three-jaw chuck.
is an Italian company specialized in the production of high and very high pressure water pumps and one of the world's leading groups in the hydraulic sector.
On the contrary, Hydraulic Presses do not have a tonnage curve and can produce full tonnage at any point in the stroke.
All the machines were driven by rope from a single large wheel; two horizontal steam engines powered the entire ironworks.
Hibar's technology caught the eye of Tesla, Inc., which builds battery-electric vehicles and battery energy systems.
If an accident happens and a roofer loses his/her footing, the 2x4 would stop the roofer from sliding down and/or off the roof.
Peder Ulrik Poulsen invented the rotating mandrel with an endless steel band (strip) in 1967, which made the continuous filament winding process possible.
Upon exiting, the material that remains on the center roll moves through the second nip between the center roll and apron roll.
On a manual milling machine, the micrometer adjustment nut limits the depth to which the cutting tool may plunge into the workpiece.
The revived product range spans road and crossover motorcycles from 125 to 1,000 cc and scooters from 125 to 500 cc, with initial market launches targeting Europe, Asia and America.
Size 0 props can take at least 23 kN, whereas size 4 props at most 20 kN dropping to 7 kN at their maximum extension.
Swamp mats are based on a design developed by Joe Penland in the late 20th century and consist of three layers of 2’ x 8’ lumber laminated together with steel bolts.
The jaws are driven by hydraulically actuated eccentrics which crush material to a desired particle size.
At EICMA 2025, the brand unveiled two further models for 2026: the C652V power cruiser and the T502XR adventure bike.
These were led by Siemens with contributions from RWTH Aachen University and the University of Stuttgart in Germany, Komatsu and FANUC in Japan, Heidenhain in Switzerland, and the Pohang University of Science and Technology in Korea.
History The history of crawler excavators can be traced back to the late 19th century, with the invention of the steam shovel in 1796.
As a press tool requires a matching punch and die set, there are two corresponding turrets, above and below the bed, for punch and die.
The 930G, with 149 hp (111 kW) of net flywheel power at 2300 rpm, it is classified as a small wheeled loader in the line of Caterpillar's excavators.
Logistics and Distribution: Shipping Labels: Barcode printers are essential for creating shipping labels that contain information such as destination, shipping method, and tracking numbers.
Most modern machine presses typically use a combination of electric motors and hydraulics to achieve the necessary pressure.
The fillers have a hopper shaped like a cone that holds the mix and puts it in a pouch using an auger conveyor that is controlled by the agitator.
The revolutionary underlying principle was that advances in machine tool control that expedited the making of jigs were fundamentally a way to expedite the cutting process itself, for which the jig was just a means to an end.
Acoustic interferometry can be used to measure seismic velocities through a material or to infer density of materials.
Depending on the machine, the probe position may be manually controlled by an operator, or it may be computer controlled.
The laboratory developed the first collaborative robot (cobot) with a built-in vision system – the TM5 In 2014 the TM5 was subsequently unveiled at the International Robot Exhibition (iREX) held in Tokyo, Japan, in 2015.
Examples include camshafts, crankshafts, transmission shafts and other rotating parts with a length longer than their diameter.
Spacing is the same on a Jody scaffold as on a general purpose scaffold, and ties are still required.
History In the early years of the shipbuilding industry, workers covered their hats with pitch (tar) and set them in the sun to cure and harden, a common practice for dock workers in constant danger of being hit on the head by objects dropped from ship decks.
At this time lathes were changed to permit inexpensive and economical production of small or medium-sized batches.
A notable disadvantage is that the large open area of paste on the rollers causes loss of volatiles.
These being: Mobile-One E Governance by the Department of IT, BT & ST, Government of Karnataka in December 2014 which had the President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee visiting BIEC.
It enables the operator to drill or cut work at exact intervals around a fixed (usually horizontal or vertical) axis.
Aksa Power Generation (or Aksa Jeneratör Sanayi A.Ş.) is a Turkish corporation, (part of the Aksa Group and owned by Kazanci Holding) that designs, manufactures, distributes, sells and services electrical power generators worldwide.
the Barcodepedia used a flash application and some web cam for querying a database), have been realized options for resolving the given tasks.
Starting in 2022, the company was to move its headquarters and location in Allach in phases to an industrial estate then under construction in the community of Vaterstetten, which is located north of the village of Parsdorf.
PMMI U has partnered with 28 institutions in the United States and Canada that offer packaging and processing curriculum.
In fact, machine tool builders are already developing machines that include both subtractive and additive manufacturing in one work envelope, and retrofits of existing machines are underway.
As with other setups on a vertical mill, the milling operation can be either drilling a series of concentric, and possibly equidistant holes, or face or end milling either circular or semicircular shapes and contours.
Energy storage The energy storage division develops intermediate storage options for renewable energy.
Another portable type are handheld trenchers that look similar to a chainsaw, weigh 20Kg (45lbs) or less, and can trench 0-700 mm (0-27 inches ) deep and a minimum of 50 mm (2 inches) wide.
While the process is innovative in many ways, the work performed on the machines proved to carry HS&E risks caused by fumes, emissions, fire risks and mechanical pinch points.
A seed-counting machine is an automated industrial device used in agriculture and packaging to accurately count seeds.
Nidec Leroy-Somer is a French company based in Angoulême, Charente which manufactures mainly electric motors.
As of October 2015, it is a member of the Austrian Traded Index, the index of the twenty largest companies traded on the Vienna stock exchange.
While superficially similar, movable scaffolding systems should not be confused with launching gantry machines, which also are used in segmental bridge construction.
A ruggedized Telematic control unit, installed on each asset, uses a GPS tracking unit to provide real-time Vehicle location data.
A typical bed has X and Y travel, and is between three and four feet square with a rotary table or a larger rectangle without a table.
Customers are largely universities such as University of Maryland, Florida Polytechnic, UMass Amherst, and Xavier University.
There are also heat gun form factors friendly for food purposes such as melting hard candies, searing meats, or to start a charcoal fire or grill.
Classification Stabilized soil mixing plants are of two kinds: the portable stabilized soil mixing plant and the stationary stabilized soil mixing plant.
Limitations There is no ASTM standard for using a concrete moisture meter to determine a final moisture content reading.
Depending on the type of phase and the viscosity of the bulk, the agitator may be called a mixer, kneader, dough mixer, amongst others.
Placing the workpiece eccentrically a set distance from the center permits more complex curves to be cut.
RFID tags need to have printed information for backwards compatibility with barcode systems, so human users can identify the tag.
Abernethy and Co Stonemason's Lathe was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.
Because seeds may continue to fall due to inertia after a feeding conveyor stops, these systems intentionally halt the primary continuous feed just before the target count is reached.
The forging of low-ductility and hard-to-deform steels and alloys by two dies using conventional forging methods is very difficult and sometimes is practically impossible because of high tensile stresses in deformation zone leading to various forging defects and high percentage of rejected products.
The relative coordinate system allows the machine operator to define a point in the workspace based on, or relative to, the previous point that the machine tool was at.
The firm exhibited an "air blowing machine" at the St Petersburg Exhibition of New and Improved Mechanisms, Devices and Tools in 1875, alongside a similar one by Roots.
Drill presses can be divided into two main types depending on their construction: Column drill press is a common type characterized by the fact that the drill spindle can be moved up and down axially ("along a column"), and has a height-adjustable table, usually adjustable via a rack and pinion.
The company's first portable Anatergoarm model, the TMA-500, was deployed in 2010 at Hydro Quebec's Robert-Bourassa generating station for breaking unit repairs.
Furthermore, successive generations of MLOCR hardware and software would incorporate some of the advances made in computer-based Remote Encoding, in order to minimize the number of mailpieces that need to go through this extra step.
The two companies also jointly established Advanced Micro Computers (AMC), located in Silicon Valley and in Germany, allowing AMD to enter the microcomputer development and manufacturing field, in particular based on AMD's second-source Zilog Z8000 microprocessors.
A few months following the start of the 1997 Asian financial crisis, ABB announced plans to accelerate its expansion in Asia as well as to improve the productivity and profitability of its Western operations.
An A-frame known as a ROPS (Roll-Over Protection) frame, may be fitted over the seat to protect the driver if the dumper rolls over.
Table saw Tenoner or tenoning machine Thicknesser or Thickness planer Round pole milling machine Round pole sanding machine Panel Line Woodworking machines These machines are used in large-scale manufacturing of cabinets and other wooden or panel products.
is headquartered in Taiwan and has overseas branches in Shanghai, Shenzhen, Chongqing, Busan, and Alblasserdam.
At each stage, the tool will progressively shape the component towards its final shape, with the final stage normally being cutting-off.
These beams may be emanating from laser, or the spray of ink as with a continuous inkjet (CIJ) printer, the most important factor is that the product or machine should be moving at constant speed.
However, battery-powered, solar-powered and hydrogen-powered sets are available; light towers with electrodeless lamps lighting are also sold.
This length enables the launching gantry to span the gap between two adjacent bridge piers while providing allowances for the distance required for launching to the next span and flexibility of movement to accommodate curved paths between piers.
These multi-component forces are measured as an individual component force in each co-ordinate, depending on the coordinate system used.
It is most commonly used for regular slotted containers (RSC) and can involve adhesive (cold water-borne or hot melt adhesive), box sealing tape, or gummed (water activated) tape.
AzarAb Industries is an Iranian manufacturing corporation that constructs power plants, factories, petrochemical plants and sugar, oil and gas refineries that is located in Arak.
Several methods are available to determine the ability of a sealed package to retain its integrity, barrier characteristics, and sterility.
Ultrasonics can also be used to weld metals, but are typically limited to small welds of thin, malleable metals such as aluminum, copper, and nickel.
This press was marked a National Historic Mechanical Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 1981.
Double-acting presses have a subdivided ram, to manage, for example, blank holding (to avoid wrinkles) with one ram segment and the forming operation with the second ram segment.
There are 170 numerical control machines, served by LGV (Laser Guided Vehicle) lines and a whole division is dedicated to the thermal treatment that works 24 hours, 7 days a week.
In the 1960s and 1970s, the machine factory continued to grow: the factory buildings were extended, the production facilities modernised and efforts in the field of research intensified.
History Motovario® was founded in 1965 by Giancarlo Raguzzoni in Formigine in the heart of Modena industrial district.
Reach-in ovens are meant for different industrial applications that may need uniform temperature throughout.
PMT Italia (2000-.....) All the shares of Beloit Italia were sold to the Nugo Group and the company was renamed PMT Italia S.p.A.
The key difference between the two vehicles is that on a roller the main roll replaces the front wheels and axle that would be fitted to a traction engine, and the driving wheels are smooth-tired.
The main advantage of a servo press is its low energy consumption; its only 10-20% of other press machines.
More generally, a toe board is a small vertical barrier attached to a raised floor or raised platform.
These two turrets must rotate in precise synchronisation and with their alignment carefully maintained.
Optical technologies include non-contact laser interferometry or shadow systems, while tactile systems use an optical grating.
In regards to new tier 4 restrictions, oven cleanings can continue as an essential service for customers.
Sealant and Adhesive Application: They provide equipment for applying sealants, adhesives, and other bonding materials in industries like construction and automotive assembly.
In addition, special linear guides are offered for protection against earthquakes in cultural monuments, data centers, and residential buildings.
The National Shipbuilding Research Program (NSRP) has also hosted work to implement a prototype that connects a shipyard design system to a plate cutting using STEP-NC.
When combined with the use of conical tools or a ball nose cutter, it also significantly improves milling precision without impacting speed, providing a cost-efficient alternative to most flat-surface hand-engraving work.
Historical descriptions The American Association for the Advancement of Science noted in 1883: The only instrument used in the construction of the igloo is the snow-knife.
It has opened three generator manufacturing plants in China (Changzhou, Wuxi and Hangzhou) with its Hangzhou State plant (opened 2012) making 24,000 generators per year and being the largest generator factory in the world.
Some are built into a production line or are integral with machinery that also applies the shrink film.
The portable stabilized soil mixing plant has wheels on each part and can be driven by a trailer, but has low productivity.
A further order for 97 four-car Class 465 units was completed at ABB York for Network SouthEast services in and around Kent between 1991 and 1994.
Types There are different types of drum handlers available in today's market; forklift attachment, hydraulic drum lifter, mobile drum handler, below-hook drum handler and drum rotator.
A box blade (also box scraper) is a type of implement used on tractors for smoothing and contouring land.
A lineshaft roller conveyor or line-shaft driven live roller conveyor is, as its name suggests, powered by a shaft beneath rollers.
They eliminate the need to manually measure and cut each individual piece of tape on high volumes of product or packaging.
Some robots are programmed to faithfully carry out specific actions over and over again (repetitive actions) without variation and with a high degree of accuracy.
The Tiltrotator (also known as a Rototilt) was introduced to the market in Sweden in the early 1980s by the Norgrens under the family owned and operated company named Noreco, and has become the standard in Scandinavia.
In 1968, WEG created CentroWEG, a training center to aid in the lack of qualified professionals in the area of mechanical engineers.
Freddy's patent application referenced specific drive methods, allowing competitors to enter the market by offering alternative methods, but using the same articulating principle.
Lascoe, Orville (1988), Handbook of Fabrication Processes, ASM International, ISBN 978-0-87170-302-6 External links Video of a four-slide machine in use.
To perform this step, gummed dispensers often employ a water bottle and wetting brush to moisten each piece of tape as it is dispensed.
SACMI has international branches in 28 countries, including Brazil, Germany, India, Mexico, Russia, Singapore, Spain, the United States, Indonesia, Poland, Portugal and Egypt.
The biggest increases in thefts were in agricultural tractors (up 149 percent), quad bikes (up 83 percent), forklift trucks (up 67 percent), and portable generators (up 55 percent).
with around 1,400 exhibitors, including more than 350 international participants and 80,000 business visitors.
Thermal transfer printers also use heat, but instead of reacting the paper, the heat melts a waxy or resin substance on a ribbon that runs over the label or tag material.
The idea seems to have originated with Louis Martin in Europe in 1803, and may have been used by Arnold Pawtucket in 1812 in Rhode Island.
Once several bridge piers are complete, support brackets are attached to adjacent piers and the main parallel girders of the MSS are lifted in place to support the scaffold and concrete forms.
It's an attached tool for excavators for built-in crushing construction waste and demolition materials.
The ZYYX 3D Printer was designed to provide an enclosed print environment with a fan and carbon filter to scrub fumes produced by the melted filament before exhausting them into the environment.
Bamboo processing machines are used to prepare bamboo for use in manufacture of handicrafts, furniture and other products.
Depending on its shape, the impeller can generate: the moving of the liquid which is characterized by its velocity and direction.
In 1988, the Rapistan Lande company was acquired by the Dutch company leadership and private investors through a management buy-out.
In the furniture business, foam cushions can be stuffed more easily when the foam is compressed previously by the use of a table and a surrounding air resistant fabric.
Sortation is the process of identifying items on a conveyor system, and diverting them to specific destinations.
A swinging boom is advantageous where space is limited as stability, mobility and space management are greatly increased over their articulated counterparts.
In 1904 the company was already called Robert Ardelt & Söhne Maschinenfabrik, indicating that it was family-run.
Forging in forging presses is carried out by two dies of which one makes reciprocal movements and the other one remains stationary.
The motor was developed for the Morgan LIFEcar in 2008 by Dr Malcolm McCulloch and Dr Tim Woolmer, then a PhD student, at the University of Oxford.
Since mixers operate in the turbulent regime, many of the equations are approximations that are considered acceptable for most engineering purposes.
The take-up hub consists of a bar and a liner holder/clip, which are connected to the motor on a single side-frame.
Scaffolding, also called scaffold or staging, is a temporary structure used to support a work crew and materials to aid in the construction, maintenance and repair of buildings, bridges and all other human-made structures.
The shape of the seam is determined by the shape of the first operation roll, the second operation roll, their relative positions and distances, lifter height, lifter pressure.
The opposite leg (often outside leg) simply rests on the granite table following the vertical surface contour.
There are three types of off-the-road tires, transport for earthmoving machines, work for slow moving earthmoving machines, and load and carry for transporting as well as digging.
There are two major types of rock breakers, mobile and stationary - typically placed on a pedestal or slew frame.
Method of use To demolish roofs and other horizontal spans, the ball is typically suspended by a length of steel chain attached to the lifting hook of a crane boom above the structure, the rope drum clutch is released and the ball is allowed to free-fall onto the structure.
More contemporary high-speed systems utilize advanced machine vision, specifically line scan cameras.
Sequencing functions necessary to inflate the parison, hold the container prior to discharge and discharge are completed by mechanical actuation to pneumatic valves – resulting in a high degree of repeatability.
For this reason, the injection pressure is a critical factor in the production of injection-molded parts.
There are different kinds of technology to roll the metal plate: Four-roller machines have a top roll, the pinching roll, and two side rolls.
It is used as a layout tool for any kind of repeated work in carpentry including stair-building, framing, timber framing, siding, brickwork, and setting tiles.
and also referred to as VAI Group, which was created from VAI and Siemens electrical engineering and automation businesses.
Power drawbars Power drawbars are starting to become more popular in milling machines because they are a fully automated version of the drawbar.
In particular OMZ is a manufacturer of reactor pressure vessels for the VVER type of nuclear reactors and the manufacturer of EKG open-cut mining power shovels.
In 1990, ABB also expanded into Australia when it acquired Commonwealth Engineering's (Comeng) plant in Dandenong, Melbourne.
Infrared ovens – Infrared ovens transfer heat by directing electromagnetic energy straight to the surface of the material being processed.
Now that the layers are close, a series of nip rollers flatten the layers together to form a two-layered plastic film that is then wound onto a cylindrical roll for packaging purposes.
Divisions NEUMAN & ESSER GROUP includes divisions in sales and application centers for reciprocating compressors and grinding and classifying systems, compressor aftermarket spare parts and repair service centers, as well as its holdings.
Earlier accounts dating to the 1st century BC and 1st century AD that mention a "deer cart" (鹿車, luche) might also have been referencing a wheelbarrow.
The support structure is most commonly a base paired with a handle, but recently pole wrappers have been introduced providing a more ergonomic design.
Heavy equipment has been used since at least the 1st century BC, when the ancient Roman engineer Vitruvius described a crane powered by human or animal labor in De architectura.
It gave us a sense of importance of packaging machinery manufacturing that we have never lost.” By 1938, all PMMI members had catalogs on file at the PMMI office at 342 Madison Avenue, New York City, NY, so the office could be a clearinghouse for inquiries.
The RepRap Snappy is designed to address the core goal of the RepRap project of creating a 'general-purpose self-replicating manufacturing machine'.
However, the attempts at diversification failed to generate enough money and in 1976 the company, heavily in debt, was bought by Emhart Corporation, now Stanley Engineered Fastening, an organisation half its size.
Extended core stretch wrappers are rolls of stretch film that have their internal core extended beyond their film roll creating a handle by which film can be wrapped.
An early documented use was in the breaking up of the SS Great Eastern in 1888–1889, by Henry Bath and Co, at Rock Ferry on the River Mersey.
In both cases, the data is sent back to the originating mail facility where mailpieces are then automatically matched back up with data through the use of a unique fluorescent barcode printed on the back during initial MLOCR attempt and receive a POSTNET barcode representing the full address.
A rockbreaker is a machine designed to manipulate large rocks, including reducing large rocks into smaller rocks.
The traversing mandrel was primarily employed by watchmakers and ornamental turners during this era.
Both conventional and robotic palletizers can receive product at a high elevation, typically 7–10.33 feet (2.13–3.15 m), or low "floor level" elevation of 2.5–3.0 feet (0.76–0.91 m).
There are over 40 Standards that are periodically reviewed to ensure they reflect new developments and technical advances (e.g., new materials, new designs and new applications).
Shortly after, a concrete pump was patented in Holland in 1932 by Jacob Cornelius Kweimn (Jacobus Cornelius Kooijman).
The belt, predominantly in horizontal position, carries the product through the drying area which is divided into several sections.
In mechanical engineering and in the production of mechatronic systems and plants, these linear guides enable a significant improvement in accuracy and speed while at the same time reducing assembly and energy costs.
Smaller models, like the "1/150", were similar in concept but were operated by a single sorter and used different mechanism for the sorting.
As the indexing table turns, the subsequent machining operation is repeated on the workpiece which was just machined by the previous station.
The third CNC axis always moves the cylinder exactly over the tool, which keeps the wear on the bearings and tools to a minimum.
In the span-by-span approach, all the segments for a span are placed before bridge tendons are tensioned; in this fashion, work progresses from one pier towards an adjacent pier.
History It was founded in 1967 in Montecchio Maggiore by Genesio Bravo, as an industrial machine manufacturing company specializing in machines for gelato shops.
Desoutter Tools is active in fields, such as Aerospace, Automotive Industry, Light Assembly and Heavy Vehicles, Off-Road, General Industry.
They are used in remodelling so that, for example, the new coursing of exterior siding on a wing will match the existing.
The jig borer was invented to expedite the making of drill jigs, but it helped to eliminate the need for drill jigs entirely by making quick precision directly available for the parts that the jigs would have been created for.
Common CNC machines used are: CNC milling machines CNC lathes CNC plasma cutter Electrical discharge machining (EDM) CNC water jet cutters References External links Hoffman, Peter J.; Hopewell, Eric S.; Janes, Brian; Sharp, Kent M.
Image gallery See also High-mast lighting Moonlight tower External links Equipment World article on light towers == References ==
The 9,200 hp (6,860 kW) Lynxs at the Sims Metal Management plant at the mouth of the River Usk in Newport, Wales has access by road, rail and sea.
It switched from buying scrap metals from state owned sugar mills to a private contractor, Azam & Sons, increasing the cost of raw materials.
Heavy equipment functions through the mechanical advantage of a simple machine that multiplies the ratio between input force applied and force exerted, easing and speeding tasks which often could otherwise take hundreds of people and many weeks' labor.
They have been made of various materials over the years, ranging from wood to cast iron, and nowadays including plastic alloys and special polymer materials.
Typical graders have three axles, with the steering wheels in front, followed by the grading blade or mouldboard, then a cab and engine atop tandem rear axles.
Technological advancements, such as improved hydraulic systems, more efficient engines, and the addition of various attachments, have further expanded the capabilities of crawler excavators.
Bi-manual controls (controls the use of which requires both hands to be on the buttons to operate) are a very good way to prevent accidents, as are light curtains that keep the machine from working if the operator is in range of the die.
It is also one of the largest ground vehicles in current operation, and – by its official production in 2013 – became the largest self-propelled ground vehicle by gross size, beating out the NASA crawler-transporters.
At its peak, this company employed 9,000 workers and produced eighty-five percent of all shoemaking machines in the United States.
The special feature of this jib system is that the hook remains at a constant height when the direction is changed.
The fifth generation of printers (new Replicator, Mini and Z18) are significantly more closed than previous models.
It offers these products under its own brand, and manufactures them for sale under other brands (as an OEM), for example many microwaves are made by Midea, are internally similar but are sold under a multitude of different brands, with varying external designs.
(Bertoli; Pratissoli Pompe); General Pump Inc.; Hammelmann G.m.b.H.; Inoxihp S.r.l.; Inoxpa S.A.; NLB Corporation Inc.
Activities Description The company has subsidiaries in 37 countries, and production is distributed in manufacturing plants in 15 countries, including: Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, India, Mexico, Portugal, Austria, Germany, China, South Africa, Turkey, and United States.
NC and CNC machines could precisely repeat sequences over and over, and could produce much more complex pieces than even the most skilled tool operators.
Use Any two bars of same or different diameters are joined using the couplers by rotating like nut and bolt.
The heat source can be based on heating element (electrical resistance), infrared heater, steam, or gas flame.
Hydraulic Drum Lifter is a stand-alone piece of drum handling equipment that uses a wheeled trolley combined with a vertical lifting mast and drum gripping system.
It can also be applied to streamline the production lines of metal and plastic products, parts, and accessories.
Polymer cast resins use very little energy to produce, and the casting process is done at room temperature.
From being purely a family firm, Thwaites Brothers had a professional managing director by 1895, Arthur Devonshire Ellis.
Turbines (flat blades or pitched blades) which inlet flow is axial and outlet flow is radial will provide shearing, turbulence and need approximately 20 time more energy than propellers, for the same diameter and same rotation speed.
Coordinate System The CCMM coordinate system differs from standard cartesian coordinates in that it employs a rotating table.
Responsibility for the business was then gradually handed over to the sons Max, Robert, Rudolf, and Paul.
In rotating-cutter woodworking machinery, the spindle is the part on which shaped milling cutters are mounted for cutting features (such as rebates, beads, and curves) into mouldings and similar millwork.
In 2017, SIG introduced the first individual QR codes with digital sourcing transparency, tailored for dairy product consumers.
Variants Armored bulldozers Bulldozers employed for combat-engineering roles are often fitted with armor to protect the driver from firearms and debris, enabling bulldozers to operate in combat zones.
In 2012 Viscom developed the one-of-a-kind XM camera sensor technology, which is still used in AOI systems to this day.
Clean process ovens may be for air atmospheres, or inert atmospheres for oxidation-sensitive materials.
The probe moves in only two axes (the vertical Z and either X or Y horizontal) and the rotating table positions the subject of inspection (a cylindrical part, hence the word "cylindrical" in the title) in a precise manner.
Semi-automated With semi automatic equipment, the operator typically fills and loads a box at the entrance to the case sealer; the box may or may not have the bottom flaps previously closed.
is an Italian, privately held company established in 1963 that produces machines and plants for engineered stone and metalworking.
The screed takes the stockpile of material and spreads it over the width of the road and provides initial compaction.
Event Ticketing: Ticketing Systems: Barcodes on event tickets simplify the check-in process for attendees.
While line laser levels can be handy for things like hanging pictures, cross laser levels have a much wider range of uses, including painting and tiling.
In 2014 Stankoprom and the representative company of the German Siemens concern in Russia and Central Asia signed an agreement on cooperation in the development of complex high-precision machines, as well as the implementation of technical re-equipment projects for domestic enterprises.
Centrally mounted wheel Further annotations of the text by Pei Songzhi (430 AD) described the design in detail as a large single central wheel and axle around which a wooden frame was constructed in representation of an ox.
A negative pressure headspace will also counteract pressure caused by the thermal expansion of the wine, preventing the cork from being forced from the bottle.
Industrial Flow North America LLC, which has its head office in Houston, Texas is an American Customer Center of Atlas Copco that sells LEWA pumps.
Hose pumps are used for smaller volume concrete placing applications such as swimming pools, sidewalks, single family home concrete slabs and most ground slabs.
The payments included $450 million in fines and penalties and a forfeiture of $350 million in profits in the US.
In the early 1900s, NEA expanded its product portfolio to include piston steam engines, reciprocating compressors, vacuums, liquid pumps and drying systems.
With the exception of soft bottomed containers like cement bags, these conveyors can be utilized for almost all applications.
It contracted at the same time with Vulcan to build a shipyard as well as for licenses for Curtis-AEG-Vulcan turbines and Vulcan-Yarrow boilers.
built 110 steam hammers between 1843 and 1867 with different sizes and strike rates, but trending towards ever larger machines to handle the demands of large cannon, engine shafts and armor plate, with steel increasingly used in place of wrought iron.
Vanderlande is a material handling and logistics automation company based in Veghel, Netherlands and a subsidiary of Toyota Industries.
Ltd., Bangalore, India Exacom GmbH, Hanover, Germany Viscom also operates application and service centers around the globe.
References Letter sortere get faster, smarter Advanced Facer Canceler System 200 United States Postal Service
The lines bead rollers add to sheet metal prevent warping and disfigurement by adding structural integrity to the metal.
In 2001 Viscom tapped into yet another business sector with the introduction of its microsystem inspection.
Design specifications The XGC88000 crawler crane, unlike the majority of crawler cranes, comes in two sections.
A major repair can change the depreciable equipment value due to an extension in service life, while a minor repair is normal maintenance.
The mix is filled in a pouch that is made of paper or poly that is formed in a collar and the pouch gets sealed by a series of heaters and dies.
Cabinet and bench ovens are smaller batch ovens, and walk in/drive in ovens are larger and to be used for more variations of industrial applications.
Meanwhile, stabilizing powders like lime or cement are transferred from a powder material warehouse to the batch hopper by a spiral conveyor, and then moved to the belt feeder by a powder material feeder.
A hydraulic valve block regulates the oil flow and the oil pressure to the correct amount of the hydraulic motor leave.
The relocation of the lathe to Moruya in May 2010 was made possible by the coming together of key community members and the local Council to rescue this important part of New South Wales' industrial heritage.
Label sizes Following is a list of the label sizes popular for their LabelWriter (400, 450) printer series: Criticism The LabelWriter 550 and 5XL has an RFID reader that reads RFID tags embedded in Dymo genuine label rolls to automatically detect the label type inside.
Examples of these conveyors applied in the industrial assembly process include transporting materials to different floors.
Quality management systems sometimes ask for periodic subjective evaluations: For example, some seals can be evaluated by a simple pull to determine the existence of a bond and the mechanism of failure.
Drawing and stretching require too much tonnage and the mechanisms required for the operations are space prohibitive.
A year later, another facility was created in San Pietro in Gu (in the Province of Padua area) to manufacture complete pasta production lines.
Robinson Thwaites and Co grew from a firm of "3 seniors, 50 men and 6 boys" in 1851 to "130 men and 13 boys" (as Thwaites and Carbutt) by 1871.
The community recycling program Recycle for Good focuses on encouraging the public to deliver their recyclable waste to a collection point and practice the circular economy.
In 1975 HEPCO resumed operation in its premises in Arak consisting of 1,000,000 square meters of land & 40,000 square meters of production hall in collaboration with manufacturers such as Navistar International, Dynapac, Poclain, Sakai Heavy Industries and Lokomo.
In Austria, this coincided with the creation of Vöest-Alpine AG and between 1974 and 1976 several other companies joined the group, including Gebrüder Böhler & Co AG, Schoeller-Bleckmann Stahlwerke AG, and Steirische Gußstahlwerke AG, making up the "Vereinigte Edelstahlwerke AG (VEW).
See also RepRap Prusa i3 Prusa Mini References External links RepRap Ormerod page on RepRap.org Open Source repository on Github by RepRapPro
It was the second state owned company, after Eastern Cables Limited, in which BRB cables bought significant number of shares.
The Ukrainians were reportedly using these to secure the territory they captured in their 2023 counteroffensive.
The company then became a member of Bremen-based Vulkan AG and was renamed Vulkan Kranbau Eberswalde GmbH.
As compared to standard stamping presses the tooling is usually inexpensive, due to the simplicity of the tools.
Dymo Corporation is an American manufacturing company of handheld label printers and thermal-transfer printing tape as accessory, embossing tape label makers, and other printers such as CD and DVD labelers and durable medical equipment.
Dissolution With a changing market steering away from 19th century water-turbine factories, the business went into decline and entered bankruptcy in 1948, when it was bought by Irwin Sagalyn, who closed its foundry and changed the business's focus.
Construction and design Modern wrecking balls have had a slight re-shaping, with the metal sphere changed into a pear shape with a portion of the top cut off.
The machine operator moves it up or down by rotating it clockwise (to move it down) or counter-clockwise (to move it up).
Key models inherited from Morbidelli include the C1002V, a 997 cc V-twin cruiser, and the M502N, a 486 cc parallel-twin naked motorcycle, both of which were first shown at EICMA 2022.
Tie bars: The primary purpose of tie bars is to stabilize and guide the platens as they are moved to compress the mold.
Bubble instabilities In the case that the bubble formed from air injection is not handled with caution, the bubble may become unstable and deform in a number of different ways.
History Before the jig borer was developed, hole center location had been accomplished either with layout (either quickly-but-imprecisely or painstakingly-and-precisely) or with drill jigs (themselves made with painstaking-and-precise layout).
Government and Identification: ID Cards: Barcodes on government-issued identification cards, such as driver's licenses and passports, help streamline identity verification processes.
Extended core wrapping is the lowest initial investment stretch wrapping system as no machinery is purchased.
When shaping a ring or bangle with a triblet, it is typical to bend and solder the metal into a rough loop, then place it over the thinner end of the mandrel.
Recently label printer applicators have been introduced which have the power to store large amounts of data.
While larger batteries increase the purchase price, smaller batteries require good integration of the charging process into the operation.
The points in the polar coordinate system can be measured using a rule and protractor to get an approximate point, or the machine operator can use trigonometry to find the exact number needed for the machine to work.
Applications The typical uses of the Turbo mixer is for the production of PVC (dry-blend rigid or plasticized) and for other kinds of thermoplastic composites (like Master-Batch, Wood Plastic Composites, Additives, Thermoplastics Polymers).
The deflected beam exits the scanner spread at an opening angle, which is dependent on scanner design.
The only non self replicating parts on the printer are the motors, electronics, a glass build plate and one 686 bearing, the 3D printed parts take around 150 hours to create.
In 1955, the company participated in Achema, an exhibition in Frankfurt am Main, for the first time.
Sticky products Fresh meat and fish, whether in a sauce or not, poultry and cheese (including grated cheese) can be moved along by using belts or screw feeders rather than vibration.
Approximately 1000 seeds were collected from the mother plant in 1974 and propagated, with two selected for further development as cultivars, which are now propagated clonally.
Not only the biomass per square meter increases with density, but also the Leaf Area Index (LAI, leaf area per ground area).
Urtica × oblongata is a hybrid species of the genus Urtica in the family Urticaceae (also known as the nettle family).
While these diseases are usually serious enough that the gardener would not grow affected plants, there are a few affected plants that can survive indefinitely, and are attractive enough to be grown for ornament such as some variegated Abutilon varieties.
× incanus is a shrubby plant, to about 1 m (3 ft) tall, with grey-green leaves and pink to purple flowers.
During the age of sail, 'Banyan' was used as an expression for a party, especially one at the fo'c'sle.
PPG I A first classification, PPG I, was produced in 2016, covering only extant (living) pteridophytes.
Female sporophylls are simple, appearing peltate, with a barren stipe and an expanded and thickened lamina with 2 (rarely 3 or more) sessile ovules inserted on the inner (axis facing) surface and directed inward.
Implicated products Tinospora cordifolia supplement usage is of concern as the constituent chemicals cause hepatitis.
In particular, a thicket's high plant density and resulting low visibility allows for predator species to succeed in tracking, stalking, and capturing their prey.
There are indications that also the well-illuminated top leaves may have a lower photosynthetic capacity in densely-grown plants.
In studies on grass species, with plants that produce stolons or rhizomes and plants that produce both stolons and rhizomes, morphological and physiological differences were noticed.
A derivation of the impossible bottle mechanical puzzle takes advantage of the fact that pine cones open and close based on their level of dryness.
Meiosis in the diploid sporophyte provides a direct DNA repair capability for dealing with DNA damages, including oxidative DNA damages, in germline reproductive tissues.
Monocotyledons or monocots have one seed lobe, which is often modified to absorb stored nutrients from the seed so never emerges from the seed or becomes photosynthetic.
In the Chinese language, the edible, cultivated walnut is called 胡桃 (hú táo in modern standard Chinese), which means literally "Hu peach", suggesting the ancient Chinese associated the introduction of the tree into East Asia with the Hu barbarians of the regions north and northwest of China.
The formation of bulbils is a form of asexual reproduction, as they can eventually go on to form new stand-alone plants.
As the industry declined, the tree farm was sold to the Collins Companies which mills and markets the wood.
Examples are the closing of the petals of a flower at dusk and the sleep movements of the leaves of many legumes.
Malting In the production of malted grains, the culms refer to the rootlets of the germinated grains.
In many of these plants, only the male flowers form catkins, and the female flowers are single (hazel, oak), a cone (alder), or other types (mulberry).
However, not all variegated plants have this Latin tag, for instance many cultivars of Pelargonium have some zonal variegation in their leaves.
Only seedlings and young tissue are susceptible to infection which, with proper cultural controls, can limit the development and progression of the disease.
Most species of ferns have pinnate or more highly divided fronds, and in ferns, the leaflets or segments are typically referred to as "pinnae" (singular "pinna").
Ground layering Ground layering or mound layering is the typical propagation technique for the popular Malling-Merton series of clonal apple root stocks, in which the original plants are set in the ground with the stem nearly horizontal, which forces side buds to grow upward.
An early leaf sensor was developed by LeafSens, an Israeli company granted a US patent for a mechanical leaf thickness sensing device in 2001.
As distance from the parent tree increases, seed abundance and thus seed predation are predicted to decrease as seed survival increases.
Canada produces most of the world's maple syrup, and the maple leaf is the country's national symbol.
The hypanthium of one plant found in the western United States, Heuchera rubescens, has one subspecies with an obconic structure, while several other subspecies have alternative hypanthium geometries, so that the obconic characteristic is a subspecies determinant and diagnostic.
Species in Cornales tend to have the same perforations, as well as anthers attached at their base, ring-like nectaries, and cymes, which are inflorescences with lateral stalks that terminate in a flower or another branch.
These walls are constructed of layered sheaths of cellulose microfibrils, wherein the fibers are in parallel within each layer.
Cultivation and modification of colour Many external factors can influence colour: light, temperature, pH, sugars and metals.
"An update of the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group classification for the orders and families of flowering plants: APG IV".
It has a number of cultivars, including 'Allgold' and 'Warminster', which have both gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Density calculation: The density of the canopy is calculated as the total number of seeds in the plot divided by the measured canopy area.
bifidum: Hieracium chlorellum - rare Hieracium crispulum - rare Hieracium prolixum - rare Hieracium triangulare - rare Hieracium aggr.
Pre-treatment of seed and soil before sowing Before sowing, certain seeds first require a treatment prior to the sowing process.
Bradyspory may occur because seed release is spontaneous but very gradual, or because seed release does not occur until triggered to do so by some environmental event.
Tetterwort – According to 1913 Webster's Dictionary, Chelidonium majus in England or Sanguinaria canadensis in the Americas.
Cultivation Availability includes the usual nursery "seed-grown" and the "cutting grown" types, which can easily be propagated at home by cuttings and planting side branches.
Taxonomy In the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I), Cryptogrammoideae is one of the five subfamilies of the family Pteridaceae.
Departing from Linnean taxonomy, Humboldt established a new science, dividing plant geography between taxonomists who studied plants as taxa and geographers who studied plants as vegetation.
These illustrations depicted a vast array of European and exotic plants, often accompanied by detailed annotations on plant anatomy, including flowers, leaves, seeds, and fruits at various stages of development.
Combining ability is assessed by taking into consideration all available information on descent (genetic relatedness), morphology, qualitative (simply inherited) traits and biochemical and molecular markers.
Uses Medical research A 2023 study at SRM Institute of Science and Technology suggests that veratric acid has apoptotic and antiproliferative effects against triple negative breast cancer cells.
List References External links British Bryological Society Checklist of British and Irish Bryophytes -searchable online database, listing 881 taxa of mosses (i.e.
Leaves simply pinnate with 4 to 7 pairs of leaflets, which are ovate to broadly ovate, coarsely serrate and occasionally lobed.
The Ginkgoaceae are a family of gymnosperms which appeared during the Mesozoic Era, of which the only extant representative is Ginkgo biloba, which is for this reason sometimes regarded as a living fossil.
This type of begonia is usually grown for the flowers they produce, sometimes regarded as some of the most spectacular of the genus.
Leaf whorls occur in some trees such as Brabejum stellatifolium and other species in the family Proteaceae (e.g., in the genus Banksia).
During the course of alternating stages of daytime and nighttime humidity, the awns' pumping movements, which resemble swimming frog kick, drill the spikelet as much as an inch into the soil.
The flowers are rich in nectar and are visited by insects, which usually have to crawl underneath the carina and thus pollinate the flowers.
Garden roses and other rose cultivars may have a much shorter lifespan of only a couple of hundred years.
A 2014 classification by Morton and Telmer split this circumscription of Rutoideae into a smaller Rutoideae and a much larger Amyridoideae s.l., which contained most of Engler's Rutoideae.
In addition phototropins mediate the first changes in stem elongation in blue light prior to cryptochrome activation.
Taxonomic significance Spur length can be an important diagnostic character for taxonomy, useful in species identification.
Symptoms When Peronospora radii infects chamomile it causes more inflorescences to be produced by the plant, and the inflorescences to be larger and malformed.
Other common names include viruchi, kiskaara, kepale, rangan, kheme, ponna, chann tanea, techi, pan, siantan, jarum-jarum/jejarum, cây trang thái, jungle flame, jungle geranium, and cruz de Malta, among others.
See also: Hyperaccumulators table – 2: Nickel Hyperaccumulators table – 3: Cd, Cs, Co, Pu, Ra, Sr, U, radionuclides, hydrocarbons, organic solvents, etc.
It is usually synonymous with the Flora and can be contrasted with the microflora, a term used for all the bacteria and other microorganisms in an ecosystem.
Species are commonly called coontails or hornworts, although hornwort is also used for unrelated plants of the division Anthocerotophyta.
Application of molecular markers An important advantage of biotechnology applied to plant breeding is the speeding up of cultivar release that would otherwise take 8–12 years.
Water starwort – Callitriche verna, of the water-milfoil family, and other species of the genus Callitriche, such as Common Water-starwort, Callitriche stagnalis.
The prothallus develops independently for several weeks; it grows sex organs that produce ova (archegonia) and flagellated sperm (antheridia).
Living Ceratophyllum grows completely submerged, usually, though not always, floating on the surface, and does not tolerate drought.
Cockayne, The Chatham Islands and Their Plants in New Zealand Plants and Their Story, NZ Department of Education, 1910 New Zealand plants and their story in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
The resulting zygote developed into the next sporophyte generation while still retained within the pre-ovule, the single large female meiospore or megaspore contained in the modified sporangium or nucellus of the parent sporophyte.
This name was however later rejected by Heslop-Harrison because they were not discovered by von Ubisch.
As a result, hybridization can be a powerful driver for improving agricultural crops, but can also facilitate unwanted species invasions (e.g., annual sunflower).
villosum which is found in the Himalayan region (including Bhutan, Nepal) and likely also in Yunnan.
Erigenia bulbosa, the Cherokee were known to chew this plant as medicine for toothaches, it is unknown what parts of plant they chewed.
For example, in two plant species whose fruit ripen asynchronously (Vaccinium corymbosum and Amelanchier arborea) the fruit with more seeds ripened faster.
The term is used in botany and in vegetation ecology especially in relation to grasslands and understory.
Holm (1929) restricted the term rhizome to a horizontal, usually subterranean, stem that produces roots from its lower surface and green leaves from its apex, developed directly from the plumule of the embryo.
Pathogens Importantly, cytoskeleton-mediated nuclear movement is critical for response of plants to pathogenic microorganisms.
An intermediate position is to place the bulk in Thelypteris (which can then be divided into subgenera and sections corresponding to the genera of other authors) but to separate out Phegopteris and Macrothelypteris.
This long lifetime indicates that something is preventing the small ice crystals from recrystallizing into larger ones, since recrystallization normally occurs very quickly at temperatures near 0 °C (32 °F).
A report from 2005 commissioned by the World Bank looked at the impact of intellectual property rights regimes on the plant breeding industry in 5 developing countries.
In a garden outside the television studios, she also gave the presenters a practical demonstration of how she communicates with trees, with the aid of a sound engineer.
This plant was in the 'Desert Worlds' episode of the David Attenborough TV series The Green Planet where he revisited the plant in 2022, after previously filming it in 1982 for 'The Baking Deserts' episode of The Living Planet.
Phytochemicals possibly involved in biological functions are the basis of herbalism, and may be grouped as: primary metabolites, such as carbohydrates and fats found in all plants secondary metabolites serving a more specific function.
Forb Adaptation Zones: Kale and turnip are examples of forb adaptations distributed over much of Europe, southern Oceania, northern Asia, and northern North America.
It was not until the 1990s that after analyzing the Casparian strip of several plants, it was found that lignin was the main component, but many textbooks have not been updated.
The bird's nest fern (Asplenium nidus) is also popular, as are the staghorn ferns (genus Platycerium).
In the aphotic (lightless) part of caves, short-term growth of photosynthetic plants is possible thanks to the seed's nutritive tissue.
The Chatham Islands make up the Chatham floristic province of the Neozeylandic Region of the Antarctic Kingdom.
It is assumed to have originated at least 408 million years ago, and is multicellular in origin in spikemosses and unicellular in origin in quillworts.
There is an increasing interest in flower colour, since some colorations are currently unavailable in plants.
The coco de mer, which produces a giant, dark brown seed, has been protected by the government of the Seychelles because of its rarity – the tree can grow up to 31 m (102 ft) tall, with leaves measuring 6 m (20 ft) long and 3.6 m (12 ft) wide.
Classification based on position The terminology of the positions of ovaries is determined by the insertion point, where the other floral parts (perianth and androecium) come together and attach to the surface of the ovary.
In this system, the superasterids (named for the asters) account for more than a third of all flowering plant species.
In palaeontology Stolon-based reproduction is thought to have been used by Rangeomorphs in the Ediacaran period.
This is in contrast to the flora, which in this context refers to the assemblage of living plants that were growing in a particular area, whose fragmentary remains became entrapped within the sediment from which the rock was formed and thus became the macroflora.
These plants are found worldwide, even in mainland Antarctica; two species of grass are the only vascular plants found there.
Exclusion of aluminium ions in the apoplast prevent toxic levels which inhibit shoot growth, reducing[?] crop yields.
Curio 'Trident Blue', known commonly as Senecio 'Trident Blue', Trident Blue Chalk and Kleinia 'Trident Blue', is a spear-shaped succulent plant that is a hybrid of Curio repens and Curio talinoides.
In contrast, those in other countries, often called European cucumbers, are smaller and have thinner, more delicate skin, often with fewer seeds, thus are often sold in plastic skin for protection.
This cold moist period triggers the seed's embryo; its growth and subsequent expansion eventually break through the softened seed coat in its search for sun and nutrients.
Sieve-tube members lack such organs as nuclei or ribosomes, but cells next to them, the companion cells, function to keep the sieve-tube members alive.
PIF1, phytochrome-interaction-factor-1, negatively regulates germination by increasing the expression of proteins that repress the synthesis of gibberellin (GA), a major hormone in the germination process.
Angiosperms also use another type of conductive cell, called vessel elements, to transport water through the xylem.
Cones are used as decorative elements in architecture such as on top of the posts surrounding Koper's Da Ponte Fountain, the central element of the Fontana della Pigna in Rome, or a bronze cone in the narthex of the Aachen Cathedral.
References Yatabe, Yoko; Yamamoto, Kaoru; Tsutsumi, Chie; Shinohara, Wataru; Murakami, Noriaki; Kato, Masahiro (2010).
guard cell Each of two cells surrounding the stoma which control gas exchange between the apoplast of the plant and the external environment.
Wounding While proteinase inhibitors are present in plants naturally, production of these proteins for defense is often induced by either wounding of the plant or by chemical signaling through molecules such as methyl jasmonate.
Then, A mound is created with moist media around the base of the plant, enclosing the wounded branches but leaving the tips of the branches exposed.
Evolution For some time, catkins were believed to be a key synapomorphy among the proposed Hamamelididae, also known as Amentiferae (i.e., literally plants bearing aments).
The taxonomy presented is broadly based on the work of the APG, with modifications to incorporate new results.
Many whitebeams are the result of extensive intergeneric hybridisation involving the genera Sorbus (Sorbus aucuparia in particular), Aria, Torminalis and Chamaemespilus.
It would be known only from the type locality until 27 years later when, in 2009, plants were located at both the type locality and at a new site near Lafeti Khola, Bhutan.
Entophytic bacteria can cause severe problems in agriculture by alkalizing the apoplast with their volatiles and therefore inhibiting plant growth.
The flowers change colour, where they start out as bright blue early in the morning, shifting to a darker shade of blue in midday, then to a lavender blue and finally to a deep pink at the end of the day.
These can be quite elaborate in the case of certain maize varieties, but tend to use a trapezoidal or leaf area index (LAI) curve for common crop or vegetation canopies.
Engler's division into subfamilies largely relied on the characteristics of the fruit, as did others used until molecular phylogenetic methods were applied, which showed that Rutoideae cannot be clearly differentiated from other members of the family based on fruit.
Kalanchoe × houghtonii is a hybrid between Kalanchoe daigremontiana and Kalanchoe delagoensis named after Arthur Duvernoix Houghton.
Similarly, all gaseous molecules emitted and received by plants such as oxygen must pass through the apoplast.
Diversity Non-vascular land plants The non-vascular land plants, namely the mosses (Bryophyta), hornworts (Anthocerotophyta), and liverworts (Marchantiophyta), are relatively small plants, often confined to environments that are humid or at least seasonally moist.
Taxonomy The species was originally discovered in Hale County, Alabama in 1873 by Julia Tutwiler, an Alabama prison reformer and educator.
gracile was described by Georg Roth in 1903 based on a specimen collected from Radstädter Tauern Pass, also in Salzburg, Austria.
Pacek-Bieniek A., Budowa i aktywność elajoforów w kwiatach wybranych gatunków z rodziny storczykowatych (Orchidaceae), Uniwersytet Przyrodniczy w Lublinie, 2011.
Moth bean: is an Indian dal main ingredient for popular Indian snack bikaneri bhujia and Maharashtrian snacks misal and usal.
Vegetative propagation also allows plants to avoid the costly and complex process of producing sexual reproduction organs such as flowers and the subsequent seeds and fruits.
Botanical examples The carnivorous plant Nepenthes deaniana has pitcher elements that are obconic in shape to capture insects.
Historical use One of the first written texts covering the use of ginseng as a medicinal herb was the Shen Nong Pharmacopoeia, written in China in 196 AD.
Seed soaking is generally done by placing seeds in medium hot water for at least 24 to up to 48 hours Seed cleaning is done especially with fruit, as the flesh of the fruit around the seed can quickly become prone to attack from insects or plagues.
The age of the organ also affects the epiphytic bacteria population and characteristics and has a role in the inhibition of phytopathogen on plant.
& T.E.Almeid (3 genera) Subfamily Thelypteridoideae C.F.Reed (27 genera) Suborder Polypodiineae Dumort.
Many club-moss gametophytes are mycoheterotrophic and long-lived, residing underground for several years before emerging from the ground and progressing to the sporophyte stage.
In 1868, it was noted that no plant had been found since 1833, nor could a herbarium specimen be located.
For lists pertaining specifically to the Cherokee, Iroquois, Navajo, and Zuni, see Cherokee ethnobotany, Iroquois ethnobotany, Navajo ethnobotany, and Zuni ethnobotany.
indica is reportedly naturalized in Austria, Portugal, Spain, Azores, Canary Islands, Cape Verde, Madeira, most of tropical Africa, Ascension Island, St.
He recognized stolons as axillary, subterranean branches that do not bear green leaves but only membranaceous, scale-like ones.
Kigelia or "sausage seed" (botanical name Kigelia africana) can produce pods weighing up to 12 kg (26 lb), and 12–20 cm (4+1⁄2–8 in) long, but the pod contains seeds.
A few angiosperms produce vascular tissue in the outer integument, the orientation of which suggests that the outer surface is morphologically abaxial.
Once a tree has been removed from its environment and the wood has been processed, it can often be hard to identify the provenance or age of a specific piece.
Specific cultures might have favoured specific wood types for ritual purposes, giving a clue as to the use of found objects.
The flowers are strongly favoured by many butterflies besides fritillaries, such as the monarch, skippers, and the various types of tiger swallowtail.
Fruiting spurs are specialized twigs that generally branch off the sides of branches and are stubby and slow-growing, with many annular ring markings from seasons past.
Male and female sporophylls are spirally aggregated into determinate cones that grow along the axis.
Alternatively, the family may be submerged in a very broadly defined family Aspleniaceae as the subfamily Thelypteridoideae.
They range from 1 to 10 m in length and the presence of them can be used to separate hardwoods from softwoods.
Active Philosophy in Education and Science: Paradigms and Language-Games, published in 1985 (Cambridge, MA: Allen and Unwin.
The two classes of flowering plants (angiosperms) are distinguished by their numbers of seed leaves: monocotyledons (monocots) have one blade-shaped cotyledon, whereas dicotyledons (dicots) possess two round cotyledons.
While plants grown from seed are more likely to have the swollen caudex at a young age, with time many cutting-grown plants cannot be distinguished from seed-grown plants.
Epiphytic bacteria are removed from the plant surface through ultraviolet radiation, chemical surface disinfection, and washing .
Water sprouts are selected for this process due to their age and flexibility classifying them as a soft wood cutting ideal for the practice.
One of the best examples occurs in Ipomopsis aggregata where there is increased seed production and seed siring in damaged plants compared to undamaged plants (Figure 4; Edwards 2009).
(By contrast, the principal generation phase in non-vascular plants is the gametophyte, which produces gametes and is haploid, with one set of chromosomes per cell.) Vascular plants have true roots, leaves, and stems, even if some groups have secondarily lost one or more of these traits.
The woody trunk of the tree is equipped with irregular and thorny branches and can reach 50 cm in circumference.
Tannosomes condense tannins in chlorophyllous organs, providing defenses against herbivores and pathogens, and protection against UV radiation.
A vertical ecosystem is an architectural gardening system developed by Ignacio Solano from the mur vegetal created by Patrick Blanc.
Later work showed that transgenic seed can be obtained by simply dipping flowers into a suitable bacterial suspension.
The spores are then separated with a micromanipulator needle and deposited in separate positions on a petri dish.
A NO mutant resulted in inhibition of vacuolation but when GA was later added the process was active again leading to the belief that NO is prior to GA in the pathway.
Helianthus × laetiflorus, the cheerful sunflower or perennial sunflower, is a plant in the family of Asteraceae.
Although of low bioavailability, some supplements boost potency via a variety of preparation techniques.
Ingesting tutu berries was linked with many deaths of children during the early European settlement of New Zealand, as well as livestock deaths.
Discovery The hybrid was first discovered by George Lawson in July 1845 at Gullane, East Lothian, Scotland, and two voucher specimens were deposited in the herbarium of William Gardiner, Dundee.
Antioxidant systems are also activated to mitigate damage from reactive oxygen species generated during stress.
Deployment in triticale in New South Wales and Queensland, Australia, however, rapidly showed virulence between 1982 and 1984 – the first virulence on this gene in the world.
Berberidopsidales, Buxales, Crossosomatales, Fabales p.p., Geraniales, Gunnerales, Myrtales p.p., Proteales, Saxifragales, Vitales, Zygophyllales, Clusiaceae Alliance, Passifloraceae Alliance, Dilleniaceae, Huaceae, Picramniaceae, Sabiaceae.
A locule (pl.: locules) or loculus (Latin for 'little place'; pl.: loculi) is a small cavity or compartment within an organ or part of an organism (animal, plant, or fungus).
In typical modern flowers, the outer or enclosing whorl of organs forms sepals, and is specialised for protection of the flower bud as it develops, while the inner whorl forms petals, which attract pollinators.
In ancient Greek medicine plum blossoms were used to treat bleeding gums, mouth ulcers and tighten loose teeth.
The structure of water-sprout regrowth is not as strong as that of the original tree, and the shoots are more subject to diseases and pests.
& A.R.Sm The extinct genus Holttumopteris from the Cenomanian aged Burmese amber has been suggested to have affinities with the family, but several important diagnostic characters are not preserved.
In some classifications, half-inferior ovaries are not recognized and are instead grouped with either the superior or inferior ovaries.
National Cheng Kung University, a university located in Tainan, included royal poinciana on its emblem.
The former has either no cells or a single cell layer between the megasporophyte and the epidermal cells, while the latter has multiple cell layers between.
The weak acids excreted by lampenflora can also cause damage to and change limestone and other rocks.
Background Classification systems serve the purpose of grouping organisms by characteristics common to each group.
Other theories state that the heat may provide a heat reward for the pollinator: pollinators are drawn to the flower for its warmth.
Etymology The word catkin is a loanword from the Middle Dutch katteken, meaning "kitten" (compare also German Kätzchen).
odorata 'Mutabilis' is widely cultivated, and is notable for the fact that the blooms change colour from yellow to pink.
The spinach family includes sugar beets, which account for a fifth of the world's sugar consumption.
Many palms (notably the feather palms) and most cycads and grevilleas have pinnately divided leaves.
In terms of differential equations, if S {\displaystyle S} is the current size, and d S d t {\displaystyle {\frac {dS}{dt}}} its growth rate, then relative growth rate is R G R = 1 S d S d t {\displaystyle RGR={\frac {1}{S}}{\frac {dS}{dt}}} .
Some plants can be grown from leaf pieces, called leaf cuttings, which produce both stems and roots.
While most of the early herbaria were prepared with sheets bound into books, Carl Linnaeus came up with the idea of maintaining them on free sheets that allowed their easy re-ordering within cabinets.
Medical research Compounds of icariin, astragalus, and puerarin mitigates iron overload in the cerebral cortex of mice with Alzheimer's disease.
caesium: Hieracium caesium - rare Hieracium coniops - rare Hieracium laeticolor - rare Hieracium plumbeum - rare Hieracium ravidum Hieracium aggr.
Some plants (like certain plants modified using genetic use restriction technology) may produce seed, but not a fertile seed.
Some early molecular phylogenies suggested it was the sister group to all other angiosperms, but more recent research suggests that it is the sister group to the eudicots.
IDD - incomplete distribution data Anthocerotophyta (hornworts) Anthocerotaceae Notothyladaceae Bryophyta (mosses) Andreaeaceae Andreaeobryaceae Archidiaceae Aulacomniaceae Bartramiaceae Bryaceae Catoscopiaceae Hypopterygiaceae Meesiaceae === Mniaceae ===
In response to stimuli An important aspect of plant behavior includes responding to directional stimuli, which requires changes in the cellular signaling to control spatial elements.
Recent supplement products have included ginseng as a core ingredient in formulations aimed at enhancing vitality, stamina, and hormonal balance in men.
After Vasek hypothesized that the creosote ring was, in fact, one organism, Leonel da Silveira Lobo O'Reilly Sternberg (then a graduate student working in Vasek's lab), documented that plants within a ring had more similar characteristics than those from other plant clusters.
In dicots, the hypocotyl is what appears to be the base stem under the spent withered cotyledons, and the shoot just above that is the epicotyl.
In Bhutan, it has been found growing on damp mossy logs in shady ravines within wet mixed broad-leaved forest.
It is also used: To treat night blindness or optic atrophy, either alone or as a component of Shi Ju Ming.
The optimal densities vary based on desired plant size, location and a variety of environmental factors and range from 30,000 to 90,000 plants per Hectare for Maize to 40 to 872 plants per square meter (400,000 - 8,720,000 per Hectare) for Winter Wheat.
The ferns are also referred to as Polypodiophyta or, when treated as a subdivision of Tracheophyta (vascular plants), Polypodiopsida, although this name sometimes only refers to leptosporangiate ferns.
However, there is still a great deal left unknown in how exactly an extracellular stimulus leads to cytoskeletal rearrangement, nuclear movement, and ultimately integration of stimuli to guide plant behavior.
Minerals are absorbed in the roots (a source) and transported to the shoots to allow cell division and growth.
These ascospores land on young shoots, leaf buds, and flower buds of blueberry plants, where they cause a primary infection.
They also play a role as replacement vegetation when the alder grove is destroyed, as well as constituting the dominant vegetation of the riverbanks in those mountain areas that lack alder groves due to altitude, generally above 1000 meters.
Uses The leaves can be used to make an herbal tea (tisane), and the berries are edible and taste sweet.
montana are subtle; they can breed with each other, and introduced kudzu populations in the United States apparently have ancestry from more than one of the subspecies.
The starch is occasionally marketed commercially as "arrowroot", a name also applied to the starch of other similar roots crops such as Maranta arundinacea.
Eine Enzyklopädie zu eponymischen Pflanzennamen [Encyclopedia of eponymic plant names] (pdf) (in German).
The first bulletin in 1942 described how in Derbyshire: "The Hathersage Women's Institutes dried fifty pounds of materials chiefly nettles in the attic of a house, and the Clifton and Mayfield Boy Scouts dried seventy-six pounds of Foxglove at their headquarters.
It has received attention as a potential energy crop, and research is currently being conducted on the use of the crop's biomass in bioethanol production.
The genes used to form the constituents of secondary cells walls have also been found in Physcomitrella patens.
Species which are commonly referred to as whitebeams can be found in several genera, five of which are the result of intergeneric hybridisation.
In Bhutan, both known locations are threatened by deforestation, overgrazing, and industrial and housing development.
The disease may overwinter in dead leaf debris, in crown buds, or in seeds (UW-Extension, 2006: Pacific Northwest Extension, 2019).
The report calls on UN member states to design and interpret seed policies and plant variety protection laws in a way that protects farmers' rights and promotes their seed systems rather than restricting them.
International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (Shenzhen Code) adopted by the Nineteenth International Botanical Congress Shenzhen, China, July 2017 (electronic ed.).
For example, Cirsium heterophyllum has very soft spines, while Cirsium spinosissimum is the opposite.
in 2011, but Christenhusz and Chase, in 2014, reverted to combining the trichomanoid clades into Trichomanes.
Ornamental companies create new flower colour by classical and mutation breeding and biotechnological approaches.
Erythrina herbacea, Creek women used an infusion of the root for bowel pain; the Choctaw used a decoction of the leaves as a general tonic; the Seminole used an extract of the roots for digestive problems, and extracts of the seeds, or of the inner bark, as an external rub for rheumatic disorders.
It produces trumpet-shaped, orange to red flowers up to 3 in (8 cm) long that appear in loose clusters of 6 to 12.
It is sometimes considered that the word 'dog' has a disparaging meaning in this context, indicating 'worthless' as compared with cultivated garden roses.
Common mould genera that grow in buildings include Cladosporium, Stachybotrys, Penicillium, or Aspergillus.
Recent studies have suggested a revision to the name of section Vireya; the section Vireya is referred to as Schistanthe, but contains all the subsections associated with the previous name.
Leaf closure and opening is mediated by the relative concentrations of leaf opening and closing factors in a plant.
All tuberhybrida go dormant for the winter, and upright varieties benefit from staking to support the flowers.
Hyperaccumulators table – 1 Cs-137 activity was much smaller in leaves of larch and sycamore maple than of spruce: spruce > larch > sycamore maple.
The white colour is expressed by the air present in the vacuoles that absorb the light, without air the flower loses the white colour.
In some species, the separator remains in the follicle until it has cooled; once cooled, the separator loosens and falls out, and the seeds follow.
Some have modified fleshy lumps on the upper surface generally referred to as the callus (plural: calli), with some being divided into multiple ridges or a central keel.
It is frequently planted in semi-arid areas like California's Central Valley, central Texas and Oklahoma.
In orchids, the labellum is the modified median petal that sits opposite from the fertile anther and usually highly modified from the other perianth segments.
Tilled in the apartment in the summer tolerates well room temperature, in winter it is better to take it to a colder room with a temperature not exceeding 16 °C.
The secondary cell wall consists primarily of cellulose, along with other polysaccharides, lignin, and glycoprotein.
Sandstone is a common substrate, but it can also be found on schist, gneiss, granite, or other acidic rocks.
In a report from 2009 the UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food, Olivier De Schutter, analysed the impact of UPOV on the right to food.
However, the new tree inherits characteristics of both its parents, and it will not grow true to the variety of either parent from which it came.
It appears as a thin, superficial growth consisting of minute hyphae (fungal filaments) produced especially on living plants or organic matter such as wood, paper or leather.
fuscocinereum: Hieracium godbyense - rare Hieracium oistophyllum - rare Hieracium penduliforme - rare Hieracium philanthrax Hieracium karelorum Hieracium aggr.
Vigorous upright water sprouts often develop in response to various factors such as physical damage, heavy pruning (or pruning in general), sub-par environmental conditions (drought, overhydration, or improper soil conditions), and in response to pest and/or disease.
A resurrection plant is a plant that can survive extreme dehydration of its vegetative tissues and resume normal metabolic activity upon rehydration.
The initiative was taken by the British botanist Arthur Tansley at the International Geographic Congress in Geneva in 1908.
Structure Trunks, the stems of woody plants, connect the roots to the upper branches, canopy, and leaves.
Evolution The first lignified secondary walls evolved 430 million years ago, creating the structure necessary for vascular plants.
Because leaves can take such diverse forms within a single species, these are a poor measure of diversity, although differing structures of wood point to the existence of diverse ginkgo forests in ancient times.
The Wood Reference Collection is the only xylarium in Australia still in use for the identification of wood specimens.
In botany, a whorl or verticil is a whorled arrangement of leaves, sepals, petals, stamens, or carpels that radiate from a single point and surround or wrap around the stem or stalk.
Domatia are also found in some rainforest tree species in the families Alangiaceae, Elaeocarpaceae, Fabaceae, Icacinaceae, Meliaceae, Rubiaceae, Sapindaceae and Simaroubaceae.
In the early twentieth century, after visiting the cathedral and seeing the rose, author Mabel Wagnalls was inspired to write a book, which went on to form the basis of a silent film.
In Santalales, an order of parasitic plants, the relationships between the families are not completely understood.
These burn with a great deal of particulate emission, so condensation of water vapor on the particulate soot prevents condensation on plants and raises the air temperature very slightly.
The reduction of mitochondrial redox potential by alternative oxidase increases unproductive respiration.
Use of modern microscopy and micromanipulation techniques allows the four haploid spores of a yeast tetrad to be separated and germinated individually to form isolated spore colonies.
The "callaloo" made in Jamaica is different from the "callaloo" made in Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada, and the rest of the Caribbean in terms of the main ingredient (the leaf used) and other ingredients included.
Because dieback thrives in moist soil conditions, it can be a severe problem for Banksias that are watered, such as in the cut flower industry and urban gardens.
India has adopted a plant breeders' rights law that has been rejected by the UPOV Council as not meeting the requirements of the treaty.
However, the by far does not live up to the scientific standards for impact assessments and has been criticized being heavily biased.
For example, the conifers of Pinus bungeana and the stems of Pelargonium have the Casparian strip, which may be related to preventing water dispersion or pathogenic invasion.
When his followers finally found the Emperor he pledged that he would construct a cathedral to honour the Virgin where the mound with the rose was.
Invalid names: Astilbe ×arendsii Arends Astilbe ×hybrida Ievinya & Lusinya References Other websites Photos
Ubisch bodies, con-peito grains) are small acellular structures of sporopollenin that might occur on the inner tangential and radial walls of tapetal cells.
Ecology and conservation Asplenium tutwilerae is found growing on ledges of conglomerate, which contains siliceous pebbles in a matrix rich in iron, with a little calcium.
Howorth, in an effort to give the members of her society a broader selection, began ordering seeds from Speas in large quantities.
Unlike the GRM and CCH, it is able to incorporate the type of damage received since different modes of herbivory may cause different resources to be affected by herbivory.
One subfamily, the Encephalartoideae, is characterized by spirally arranged sporophylls (rather than spirally orthostichous), non-articulate leaflets and persistent leaf bases.
Peak spore production and infection occurs around 65 °F, though the pathogen is active in temperatures between 40 and 85 °F (Goldberg, 2000).
A ligule (from Latin: ligula "strap", variant of lingula, from lingua "tongue") is a thin outgrowth at the junction of leaf and leafstalk of many grasses (family Poaceae) and sedges (family Cyperaceae).
Lycopodium powder, the dried spores of the common clubmoss, was used in Victorian theater to produce flame-effects.
Botany The plants possess leathery leaves, ranging from 3 to 6 inches in length, and produce large clusters of tiny flowers in the summer.
Seed plants Seed plants, which first appeared in the fossil record towards the end of the Paleozoic era, reproduce using desiccation-resistant capsules called seeds.
Its parents are Cytisus multiflorus (the white Spanish broom) and Cytisus oromediterraneus (the Pyrenean broom).
However, the South American bee Euglossa cordata pollinates both resupinate and non-resupinate orchid flowers.
Bay leaves contain essential oils, such as eucalyptol, terpenes, and methyleugenol, which contribute to their taste and aroma.
Jersey The Visite du Branchage takes place in each parish twice a year to check that occupiers of houses and land bordering on public roads have undertaken the 'branchage'.
Forbs are generally defined as herbaceous broad-leafed plants, while graminoids are plants with grass-like appearance including true grasses, sedges, and rushes.
In one study, an estimated 13680 seedlings were counted over June–October following an experimental bushfire, but by January only eleven plants remained.
This is in contrast to the seedbed method used more commonly in domestic gardening or more specific (modern) agricultural scenarios where the seed is applied beneath the soil surface and monitored and manually tended frequently to ensure more successful growth rates and better yields.
Especially with easily infected tropical fruit such as lychees and rambutans, seed washing with high-temperature water is vital.
In dendrochronology, with the exception of trees grown in specific environments (such as near the equator) and under certain pressures (drought), each tree ring generally represents a period of one year of growth.
Sympodial species grow from the soil in a slowly expanding tuft, while monopodial species send underground rhizomes to produce shoots several metres from the original "parent" plant.
Heat and drought as a result of climate change has been found to severely impact tree mortality rates, putting forest ecosystems at high risk.
West Indian bay leaf, the leaf of the West Indian bay tree (Pimenta racemosa, Myrtaceae) is used culinarily (especially in Caribbean cuisine) and to produce the cologne called bay rum.
The rhizome may be 0.5 to 2 centimeters (0.2 to 0.8 in) long and 0.3 to 0.5 centimeters (0.12 to 0.20 in) in diameter.
divided Rutaceae into only two subfamilies, a small Cneoroideae, and a greatly enlarged subfamily Rutoideae s.l.
In botany, a bud is an undeveloped or embryonic shoot and normally occurs in the axil of a leaf or at the tip of a stem.
A Visite du Branchage is an inspection of roads in Jersey and Guernsey to ensure property owners have complied with the laws against vegetation encroaching onto the road.
It is often confused with Kalanchoe daigremontiana which has strongly cordate to auriculate or even peltate leaves, while the leaves of Kalanchoe × houghtonii are narrower and the leaf base is attenuate, cuneate to weakly cordate or auriculate.
Dewey finds an ancient hybridization event contributed significantly to the modern hexaploid multi-genome – and as with all other currently grown Triticeae crops, wheat is an annual.
bulbifera Lilium bulbiferum Lilium lancifolium Lysimachia terrestris Oxalis inaequalis Pinellia ternata Saxifraga cernua Woodwardia radicans See also Propagule == References ==
In seed plants, the ovule is the structure that gives rise to and contains the female reproductive cells.
Trinidadians and Saint Lucians, however, use dasheen bush, okra, coconut milk, pumpkin, onions, bell peppers, local seasonings, and spices, along with crabs or pigtails.
In the same way, the name of a particular variety of Acanthocalycium klimpelianum is Acanthocalycium klimpelianum var.
Orbicules are resistant to acetolysis and react to histochemical staining in a similar way as the pollen exine, indicating that they are composed of sporopollenin.
The PO is intended for multiple applications, including genetics, genomics, phenomics, and development, taxonomy and systematics, semantic applications and education.
All land plants, and most multicellular algae, have life cycles in which a multicellular diploid sporophyte phase alternates with a multicellular haploid gametophyte phase.
Distribution and habitat Ferns are widespread in their distribution, with the greatest richness in the tropics and least in arctic areas.
The flesh of the berry is replaced with mycelium, with only the skin remaining, rendering the berry inedible.
Taxonomy Eight New Zealand native species are known by the name: Coriaria angustissima Coriaria arborea Coriaria kingiana Coriaria lurida Coriaria plumosa Coriaria pottsiana Coriaria pteridoides Coriaria sarmentosa Description They are shrubs or trees; some are endemic to New Zealand.
Lately, cultivation has spread to other regions, such as New Zealand and the southeast of Australia.
Interviews On 6 May 2019, Worton was interviewed on ITV's programme This Morning by television presenters Eamonn Holmes and Rochelle Humes, to talk about her new book.
It was often used in the names of herbs and plants that had medicinal uses, the first part of the word denoting the complaint against which it might be specially efficacious.
When the berries are ripe, they are tender and difficult to pick in any quantity without squashing them.
Most Ericales species tend to have woody stems or branches, seed capsules, cellular endosperm and ladder-like vessel perforations.
There are 26 native plant species, and there has been 76 species of introduced plants recorded on the island.
Seed drill In agriculture, most seed is now sown using a seed drill, which offers the best precision; seed is sown evenly and at the desired rate.
'mountain ginseng') grows naturally in mountains and is hand-picked by gatherers known as simmani (심마니).
Trichomanes – more than 30 species Cephalomanes C.Presl 1843 – about 4 species Callistopteris Copel.
These ontologies describe anatomical structures and growth and developmental stages across Viridiplantae.
Where a thicket is formed of briar (also spelled brier), which is a number of unrelated thorny plants, it may be called a briar patch.
Other cultivars are becoming available: 'Summer Chocolate' has red foliage ageing to dark bronze, with pale pink flowers; 'Ishii Weeping' (or 'Pendula') has a drooping growth habit.
This single clonal colony plant of Larrea tridentata reaches up to 67 feet (20 metres) in diameter, with an average diameter of 45 feet (14 m).
The plants nearest the center usually died, while the ones further out often featured "tumors and other growth abnormalities".
Etymology The specific epithet lotubela is derived from the name, which local people call this species.
Sonchus, Helianthus, Asteraceae) Free-central placentation: Derived from axile as partitions are absorbed, leaving ovules at the central axis.
The new Soil Conservation Service grew seventy million kudzu seedlings and paid $8 an acre (equivalent to $184 in 2025) to anyone who would sow the vine.
It is the dried rhizome of Atractylodes lancea (Thunb.) DC., synonyms Atractylodes chinensis (DC.) Koidz, and Atractylodes japonica Koidz.
In angiosperms (flowering plants), the term locule usually refers to a chamber within an ovary (gynoecium or carpel) of the flower and fruits.
The harvesting and sales of nyatoh has been criticized by some environmental groups, who have won agreements in the United States to not resell the wood from various furniture and home-improvement chains.
Parietal tapeta are the dominant type in land plants and occur in the extant ‘basal’ angiosperm groups and in most fossil taxa; it is therefore considered as the plesiomorphic condition in angiosperms.
This work made a profound impression on the botanist Gherardo Cibo, who then illustrated some of the plants featured in Mattioli's work (with roots, flowers and fruit) in close-up set against a backdrop of a real (often inhabited) landscape depicting their natural environment.
Ixora also grows commonly in subtropical climates in the United States, such as Florida where it is commonly known as West Indian jasmine.
The triangle of U ( OO) is a theory about the evolution and relationships among the six most commonly known members of the plant genus Brassica.
laevigatum: Hieracium laevigatum Hieracium lissolepium - rare Hieracium tridentatum - rare Hieracium aggr.
Slowly, the pockets break off as tiny vacuoles that carry tannins to the large vacuole filled with acidic fluid.
thaliana geneticists had become HHMI investigators: Joanne Chory (1997, also awarded a 2018 Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences), Daphne Preuss (2000-2006), and Steve Jacobsen (2005).
Characteristics Thickets are characterized by dense plant life, a low closed canopy, deep shale-derived soil, and high levels of soil carbon and nitrogen.
Stolons have longer internodes and function as means of seeking out light and are used for propagation of the plant, while rhizomes are used as storage organs for carbohydrates and the maintenance of meristem tissue to keep the parent plant alive from one year to the next.
Other species, including dwarf thistle (Cirsium acaule), musk thistle (Carduus nutans), and melancholy thistle (Cirsium heterophyllum) have also been suggested.
The dewberries are a group of species in the genus Rubus, section Rubus, closely related to the blackberries.
The Angiosperm Phylogeny Website (or APweb) is a website that presents up-to-date research on the phylogeny and taxonomy of flowering plants (angiosperms) in what is intended to be a user-friendly way.
Verzeichnis eponymischer Pflanzennamen – Erweiterte Edition [Index of Eponymic Plant Names – Extended Edition] (pdf) (in German).
Some of the oldest still-viable seeds were those of Lotus (Nelumbo nucifera) found buried in the soil of a pond; these seeds were estimated by carbon dating to be around 1,200 years old.
It disfigures the inflorescence, mainly causing symptoms in the ray florets, but can also be visible on the leaves.
The callus can be highly modified with striking colors that may aid in pollinator deceit and mimicry.
Caroline Dean was awarded many honors including the 2020 Wolf Prize in Agriculture for "pioneering discoveries in flowering time control and epigenetic basis of vernalization" made with A.
While small compared to other countries, the Maltese Islands contain flowers that grow on Malta, Gozo, Comino, Filfla, St Paul's Islands and Fungus Rock.
Construction costs is a concept in biology that conveys how much glucose is required to construct a unit of plant biomass, given the biosynthetic pathways and starting from glucose and mineral constituents.
As an example, the dynamics of the calcareous grassland were significantly impacted due to the climate factors.
David Stenhouse (born 23 May 1932, in Sutton, Surrey, England) was an English philosopher and biologist.
Annonoideae is a subfamily of plants in the family Annonaceae, with genera distributed in tropical areas world-wide.
According to some studies, the Casparian strip begins as a localized deposition of phenolic and unsaturated fatty substances in the middle lamella between the radial walls, as partly oxidized films.
Another example is Impatiens, whose explosive dehiscence is triggered by being touched, leading it to be called the "touch-me-not".
Samuel Burton Green (29 January 1941 – 9 August 1999) was an openly gay psychiatric nurse and Liberal politician who was elected as a member of Durham City Council in 1972, making him the first openly-gay politician in the UK and first known openly gay candidate in an election in Britain.
Moreover, in a letter to William Montgomerie, Abbot admitted that the idea of risking all on full-time writing scared him.
There are WRAP Facilitators in the United States, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, China, and Ireland trained by the Copeland Center or Advanced Level WRAP Facilitators trained by the Copeland Center.
Compared to private clinics, the fees for specialist outpatient services of the Hospital Authority are lower, but the waiting time can be as long as two years.
The awarding commission cited her "multidisciplinary research into the communication between doctors and patients, and her internationally used research method for quantifying non-verbal communication".
being-beyond-the-world Two other concepts structure Binswanger's view on existence, relating to the relationship between humans and the world or objects around them.
Early life Hester Agnes Pinsent was born in 1899, in Harborne, Birmingham, Staffordshire, the only daughter of Hume Chancellor Pinsent (a relative of the philosopher David Hume) and his wife Dame Ellen Pinsent (née Parker).
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.131.4.483 References External links Faculty Profile Lab Website (CAIP Lab) Andres De Los Reyes publications indexed by Google Scholar Future Directions Forum Website Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology
Satwant Pasricha of the Maulana Azad Medical College appreciates her work on the subject, but he also places not-verifiable truth like "rebirth" and “reincarnation” out of the domain of the scientific knowledge.
Cameron is an American neuroscientist who researches adult neurogenesis and diseases involving the hippocampus.
Altschul also did a mathematics degree at the Open University, was involved in assessing the joint education of architects and engineers, and was a volunteer teacher of mathematics at a local primary school (for under 11 year olds).
After three years of studies a crisis of vocation led him away from Law and into Art, especially theatre and creativity.
Education and career Indermaur graduated from the University of Western Australia, obtaining a masters in clinical psychology in 1979 and a Doctor of Law in 1997.
He worked in the National Health Service as a clinical psychologist at psychiatric hospitals, including Barrow Hospital, Bristol, Winterton Hospital, County Durham, and Graylingwell Hospital, Chichester.
Integrating multi-informant reports of youth mental health: A construct validation test of Kraemer and Colleagues’ (2003) Satellite Model.
In 1950 they moved to a house at 29 Andover Street and called it "the Clinic for Medical Psychology".
She established Positive Movement to champion sexual and reproductive health rights and build an inclusive society that does not judge people based on disabilities or HIV status.
Much of her work with HGAPS has involved updating Wikipedia pages for symptom measures to make these tools easily accessible.
Her work in sex education also involved postgraduate courses, seminars and lectures for groups including doctors and other professionals.
The book "guides readers on how to find and nurture more fulfilling friendships." Personal life Harden Bradford is married.
In 2012 Morse began a four-year run as guest co-host on the nationally syndicated Loveline radio show with Dr.
She then became a reader in nursing at the University of Teesside, and deputy director of the Teesside Centre for Rehabilitation Sciences.
The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences and the Institute of Psychology at Chemnitz University subsequently publicly distanced themselves from his statement and his colleagues criticized the article for mixing opinion and facts and for drawing discriminatory conclusions.
In 1821, on the death of James Gregory, Duncan became first Physician to the King in Scotland, having held the same office to the Prince of Wales for more than thirty years.
Charles Lamb gave the highest possible praise to his friend's Dramatic Sketches when he said that had he found them as anonymous manuscript in the Garrick Collection he would have had no hesitation about including them in his Dramatic Specimens.
She is also the founder and co-founder of multiple women's organizations and networks in Afghanistan and the region.
He served as an assistant professor of psychiatry at Tufts University School of Medicine and directed family therapy training at New England Medical Center Hospital.
Her children's books are known for their whimsical illustrations of animals and stories told in rhyme.
She has led longitudinal studies examining supported decision making (since 2015) and the quality of support in group homes (since 2009) for people with intellectual disabilities.
Her publication titled "Safer Bars: A cluster-randomized effectiveness evaluation of alcohol-related sexual violence prevention through bar staff bystander training" aimed to assess Safer Bars, a program that trains bartenders on the warning signs of sexual assault perpetration.
In 1988 she published her book Power from Within that summed up Batten's work as ‘an artist, teacher and ritual maker’ up to that time.
"Rooming-in" - newborn babies sharing a room with their mothers from birth onward - was an issue that divided Bevan-Brown and the Parents' Centres from the medical profession when the Centres considered federating at their conference in 1957, and needed official recognition.
Published works Bigby has published extensively in peer-reviewed journals, books and reports on disability practice and policy, including co-authoring systematic reviews and frameworks for supported decision making and community participation.
He is professor and chair of psychiatry and psychotherapy at the University of Fribourg in Switzerland.
At Stanford, she collaborated with Andrew Ng, and became interested in whether artificial intelligence can meaningfully help people with mental health conditions.
She was mentioned in a Sargent Shriver speech about the Peace Corps, appeared in a Peace Corps publicity film, and featured in a Life magazine article in 1965, about the culture shock returning volunteers faced.
He married Essi Matilda Forster (née Christian, who was the first female Gold Coast native to become a lawyer) on 17 December 1944.
She received her bachelor's degree from Xavier University of Louisiana and her master's degree in vocational rehabilitation counseling from Arkansas State University.
She has taught at the University of Oregon and, up until her retirement in 2016 from providing counseling services, was co-director with her husband, Larry Maltz, of Maltz Counseling Associates therapy practice in Eugene, Oregon.
He began writing stories while he was at the university and publishing some articles and short stories in local and daily newspapers.
After his debut, he played a number of minor matches against Sussex in 1956, as well as the touring New Zealanders and Worcestershire, both in 1959.
She is active in Helping Give Away Psychological Science (HGAPS), a 501(c)3, focused on disseminating information to promote well-being in the community.
Honors Officer of Order of Merit of the Italian Republic "On the initiative of the President of the Republic" - 2 December 1997 References External links ( EN ) Works by Emmanuele Jannini, on Open Library, Internet Archive .
After attending Retford High School for Girls in Nottinghamshire she went to train as a nurse at Leeds General Infirmary, qualified in 1944, and worked there, first as a staff nurse, then in 1946 as a sister on a ward where there were some psychiatric patients.
The fourth, co-edited with Marianne Soff (Karlsruhe, Germany), was published in 2022: it is the revised and expanded third edition of Gestalt psychologist Wolfgang Metzger's fundamental work "Schöpferische Freiheit - Gestalttheorie des Lebendigen" (Creative Freedom - Gestalt theory of the living).
He was privately educated in Southampton and at Highgate School, followed by King's College London and King's College Hospital.
Rejecting his father's wish that he should join the ironworks business, Prichard decided upon a medical career.
Ian Robertson has published more than 200 books and articles in leading journals, including Nature, Brain, Journal of Neuroscience, and Psychological Bulletin.
Samo dela ljubavi ostaju (Just the Work of Love Remains; preface by monk Mitrophan of Hilandar), Novi dani, Belgrade 1994.
While their research was in process, they became guinea pigs for their own experiments when they became addicted to cocaine.
He also works extensively on issues surrounding mentorship and skills-based approaches to early career development.
Rush's NYRF Rape Conference presentation about incest and childhood sexual abuse reviewed psychiatric and psychoanalytical literature from Freud to that time that attributed such problems to children's seduction of adults or erotic fantasies.
Dovzhenko's method was approved by the Department for Implementing of Medication and Medical Equipment of the Ministry of Healthcare and by the Ministry of Healthcare of Soviet Ukraine.
He has written a treatment manual for the application of this model and treatment to anxiety and mood disorders.
Given these health problems, and knowing his end was not far off, he asked to spend the remainder of his life at Dinan in France, where he died on 24 April 1914.
Lynch made his first appearance for the team during the 1982 championship and became a regular player over subsequent seasons until his retirement in 1989.
Beliefs about sexuality Kotb cites Al-Baqara ("The Cow"), the longest surah (chapter) of the Quran, as her inspiration for understanding human sexuality, noting that it speaks about the daily life of a man and woman and commands the man to provide pleasure to his wife.
While at Johns Hopkins, she was founding director of the Center for Mental Health and Addiction Policy and the Johns Hopkins StigmaLab.
Leadership role: Helps the patient assume maximum responsibility for meeting treatment goals in a mutually satisfying way.
Dovzhenko Republican Narcological Psychotherapy Center (Республиканский Наркологический Психотерапевтический Центр им.
He became a lecturer at Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry in 1992, and became a professor there in 1998.
Anderson nevertheless trained successfully as a nurse at Nottingham General Hospital and did psychiatric nursing at the Coppice Hospital.
When the Whigs came to power in 1830 under Lord Grey, Vernon was appointed a Lord of the Treasury (government whip), which he remained also when Lord Melbourne became Prime Minister in July 1834.
In August 2021, Yuma moved to Barcelona together with her partner Zhenya, their daughters Alina and Mila and Alina's partner Ksyusha.
The New York Times described Kaplan as someone who was "considered a leader among scientific-oriented sex therapists.
As a faculty member of psychology at the University of New Brunswick, she established the Muriel McQueen Fergusson Centre for Family Violence.
He was appointed physician in ordinary to George IV in 1823, in 1830 physician extraordinary to Queen Adelaide, and in 1833 lord chancellor's visitor in lunacy.
Joan Garriga Bacardí (Bellpuig, Lleida, 28 November 1957) is a Gestalt and humanistic psychologist and psychotherapist.
She then returned to nursing as a community psychiatric nurse, specialising in working with families.
In 1974, she was appointed the executive director of the Hinds County Association for Mental Health.
Her efforts to strive to promote human rights, women rights, equality, justice and peace during her work as the Minister of Women's Affairs are published in two books.
"Emotional Distress Among LGBT Youth: The Influence of Perceived Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation".
Life He was born at 106 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh on 24 June 1833 the son of Jane Graham (1807–1875), from Clonmel, Ireland and William Sibbald (1799–1877).
Following service with the Royal Air Force Police during the Second World War, he worked in the National Health Service in psychiatric hospitals.
He served as a professor and Deputy Medical Superintendent at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore.
Davis is also a licensed clinical psychologist in the state of Arizona and was previously licensed in the state of Washington.
In 1922, he authored The Heart of the Anti-Vivisectionist which criticized arguments of the anti-vivisection movement.
A new republic, a united Ireland, and the importance of the Irish language were key themes in her speech, saying that it will be the working language in Áras an Uachtaráin.
Mary Dobbie says in her history of Parents' Centres New Zealand that Bevan-Brown was the centre of a "ferment" of controversy among psychology students in staid Christchurch in the 1940s.
Of modest family origins, he established a lucrative private practice and served as Governor of Guy's Hospital, Fullerian Professor of Physiology and President of the Clinical Society.
Both published articles about their work, and Skellern's papers have been described as giving a "definitive picture of the new developments in psychiatric nursing in the 1950s".
An investigation of an abnormality of cognitive function in a cooperative young psychotic: an example of the application of experimental method to the single case.
Playing career A native of Bohermore in Galway city, Inky played in his first county championship final for Liam Mellows in 1935.
Geological studies Retiring to England, Crichton wrote several books dealing with medical and geological subjects, becoming a member of the Geological Society in 1811.
He provoked the students by arguing that mind and consciousness are not spiritual entities, separate from the body; they are simple spin-offs from brain activity.
History Copeland's work is based on the study of the coping and wellness strategies of people who have experienced mental health challenges.
Career Skarbek learned English on his arrival in Britain and entered St Mary's Hospital, London, qualifying as a doctor in 1954.
The intervention integrates principles from sleep and circadian science, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, interpersonal and social rhythm therapy, chronotherapy, and motivational interviewing.
Murphy was part of a team at Washington University that helped move American psychiatry toward evidence-based medicine.
She is founder of the Ayesha Chundrigar Foundation, a non profit animal rescue organization based in Karachi, Pakistan.
Father Rami Elias is a member of the Catholic Synod in Syria founded by both the clergy and lay people, working towards reconsidering the Church doctrine and its religious discourse, in coordination with the Episcopal Council and the Eastern Catholic Synod in Rome.
She incorporated the advice and experience of Eva Le Gallienne, her friend and neighbor, as well as researching her stories backstage at La Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theatre in New York City.
in psychology in 1995 on the subject of teacher evaluations from Heidelberg University and completed a Habilitation in 2005 on the topic of teacher quality at University of Koblenz and Landau.
"Parental attitudes about sexually transmitted infection vaccination for their adolescent children".
The resource person is also in charge of relaying information to the patient about the treatment plan.
Nanbudo Turković founded the Gradec Nanbudo Club in Zagreb in 1978, named after the old part of Zagreb.
Born at Gy, a small village in the Haute-Saône department, he was member of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences and researched mental illnesses and phrenology.
Writing and publications She has contributed to various anthologies on sexuality and human rights, which have been covered in media and scholarly reviews.
The book throws light on some attempts made to recognise these rights and ensure their acceptance in society." Chandiramani published an analysis of the demographics and impact of TARSHI's helpline in a 1998 issue of the journal Reproductive Health Matters.
His treatise containing Celtic compared with Sanskrit words appeared in 1831 under the title Eastern Origin of the Celtic Nations.
They are usually not distinguished persons; they may be teachers at secondary schools, or those engaged in special education, or those working in hospitals in remote areas.
“Memory function” in psychiatric patients over sixty, some methodological and diagnostic implications.
Early life and education Hanneman was born on a farm in Lincoln County, Kansas, and raised in Junction City, the daughter of Frank William Hanneman and Lydia Ellen Vonada Hanneman.
However the Whig government, by a majority of 145, amended this to substitute "thirteen" in place of "eighteen" and the act as it passed ensured that no child under thirteen worked more than nine hours.
Public psychiatry is very rewarding, and with disadvantaged patients, together with over-worked colleagues, clinicians have the potential to make a difference.
Mony Elkaïm (7 November 1941 – 20 November 2020) was a Moroccan-Belgian psychiatrist and psychotherapist.
From 2006 until his retirement Zimet was a faculty member in the Cancer Prevention and Control Program of the Indiana University Simon Comprehensive Cancer Center.
Physical dependence can happen with the chronic use of many drugs—including even appropriate, medically instructed use.
Career Chundrigar headed a refugee camp of 700 displaced people in Islamabad after the 2005 earthquake in Pakistan.
Ayesha Chundrigar (Urdu: عائشہ چندریگر) is a Pakistani animal welfare activist, entrepreneur and journalist.
Shirley Edith Zussman (née Dlugasch; July 23, 1914 – December 4, 2021) was an American sex therapist based in New York City.
She has been the editor-in-chief of the Journal of Psychosocial Nursing and Mental Health Services since 1981.
Salzer was ordained as a pastor in 1989, and worked for ten years at the Kaiser-Franz-Josef-Spital in Vienna, becoming engaged in the education of voluntary pastoral caretakers (Seelsorger).
Since 2011, he has chaired the working group "Stress-associated disorders" for ICD-11 revision by World Health Organization.
But since none of them managed to look like a little girl, Chespirito offered her the role of Paty, given her beauty and girlish face, in addition to her resemblance to the actress Regina Torné, who played the role of Aunt Gloria.
Creative works In 2010, Graham contributed an essay to the BBC Radio 3 "Letter to My Body" series, in which he expressed how the discovery that he was intersex led to addiction and depression.
In the 1980s and 1990s Indermaur worked on criminal investigations involving drugs and violent crime.
Hughes has researched and introduced creative techniques for personal development, including using embodied imagery in nature, the universal theory of archetypes, and adapting the Tibetan tradition of mandala-making to map individual values.
Awards 2016 Best Business Management Idea of the Year 2016 Books for a Better Life Award Winner | Psychology 2017 Thinkers50 Breakthrough Idea of the Year 2017 Axiom Business Book Award Medalist References External links "The gift and power of emotional courage" (TED talk), 2017.
He has received advanced statistical training at the University of Essex, UK, and at the Universities of Michigan in Ann Arbor and Yale, US.
She is an researcher and holds additional faculty affiliate roles at the Rutgers Center of Alcohol & Substance Use Studies at Rutgers University.
In 1870 he returned to Edinburgh to become deputy superintendent of the Royal Edinburgh Hospital under Dr David Skae.
Burns held various positions at Boston College, Harvard University, Hood College, the University of Maryland, and Johns Hopkins University before moving to Duke.
After working as part of a clinical research team studying serious mental disorders, MacIntosh joined the faculty of the University of Canterbury in 2017, rising to full professor in the School of Psychology, Speech and Hearing in 2022.
As an educator, Pulotu-Endemann rose to be associate-head of Manawatu Polytechnic's Nursing and Health Studies (now UCOL).
Films In 2016, Hughes directed The Moving Theatre, a documentary using art to share people's migration experiences.
The ban was criticized by some publications, with critics arguing that labeling her educational content as "prurient" perpetuates shame and hinders open discussions about sex.
During that time he won three All-Ireland winners' medals, three Munster winners' medals, one National Football League winners' medal and one All-Star award.
Edwards-Leeper stated that Lisa Littman's studies on detransitioners is a "critical preliminary step toward shedding light on" this population.
In 1973, she took San Francisco Sex Information's (SFSI) training, and was a member of their training staff for 20 years.
She was the first curator at the Kitale Museum when it opened in 1973, under the supervision of Richard Leakey.
Her dissertation was titled, Psychosocial Factors Associated with Women's Behavioral Intentions to Store Firearms Safely: An Application of the Theory of Planned Behavior.
Professor Thom helped to establish the network International Society of Addiction Journal Editors, a collective of Editors and Editorial Board members working in the Addiction field.
She developed opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and meningitis, and as a result she became blind and deaf in one ear.
In an 1809 edition of a work on insanity he included a detailed description of the case of James Tilly Matthews which is one of the earliest and clearest recordings of paranoid schizophrenia.
She was co-investigator on The Manchester Language Study, the largest UK longitudinal study of developmental language impairment.
She was a consultant at the Medical Foundation for the Victims of Torture during a period of expansion at the centre.
More specifically she investigates how coercion operates across gay and heterosexual populations with a focus on Brazilian, Spaniard, and Moroccan cultures.
In 1803, Crichton was invited to become the emperor of Russia's personal physician, and between 1804 and 1819 was appointed Physician in Ordinary (personal physician) to Tsar Alexander I of Russia and to Maria Feodorovna, the Dowager Empress.
Her research with Mathews demonstrated the role of mental imagery in generating emotional responses.
Other artists who found Batten's focus on community influential included Carol Shepheard who participated in Batten's Lifescape environment.
Culbertson Travel Grant to support women from developing countries in the early stages of their careers.
The documentary was selected in 1974 to be preserved in the National Film Archive and was re-released on DVD in 2014 as part of World in Action: Volume 4.
Edelstein Three Minute Therapy: Change Your Thinking, Change Your Life, a psychological self-help book based on Albert Ellis's rational emotive behavior therapy, re-released in paperback, 2019.
François Simonet de Coulmier (30 September 1741 – 4 June 1818) was a French Catholic priest, originally a member of the Premonstratensian canons regular, and an active member of the French legislature at the start of the French Revolution and again during the First French Empire.
Royal College of Nursing Carter succeeded Beverly Malone as general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing in January 2007.
She was the second president of the Association of Deans of Women and Advisors to Girls in Negro Schools, and served two terms as president of the National Association of College Women.
The Disorganized and Disadvantaged Family: Structure and Process (1967) Psychoanalytic Therapies and the Low Socioeconomic Population (1968) Families and Family Therapy.
During the Spanish–American War, she volunteered for service on the "Bay State", a hospital ship of Massachusetts Volunteer Aid Association, used to evacuate sick and wounded military personnel from Cuba and Puerto Rico.
In 2023 the Scottish Council for Development and Industry (SCDI) decided to relaunch itself under the new name of "Prosper" and as President of COSLA Morrison was involved in the process.
While studying medicine at the University of Edinburgh under William Cullen (1710-1790) he became a Freemason and was initiated in the Lodge Holyrood House (Saint Luke), No.44 in 1763.
A new Inebriates Act was working through parliament to allow magistrates to compulsorily admit habitual drunkards into Inebriate Reformatories for treatment for 3 years.
Bibliography The Pineapple Duck with the Peppermint Bill (Bobbs-Merrill, 1968) A Delightful Day with Bella Ballet (Oddo Publ., 1972) The Houndstooth Check (Oddo, 1972) The Simple Pink Bubble That Ended the Trouble with Jonathan Hubble (Oddo, 1972) The King, the Queen, and the Lima Bean (Oddo, 1974).
Ranked second in the 1981 National College Entrance Exam of Afghanistan (Kankor) at the national level.
Like several other former Nogizaka46 members, she is still signed to the Nogizaka46 management and has made public appearances related to her current occupation.
The Needs-to-Goals Gap: How informant discrepancies in youth mental health assessments impact service delivery.
CDS & ADHD pioneer He was the first person to distinguish between at least two kinds of disorders of attention, one a disorder of distractibility, lack of sustained attention, and poor inhibition resembling present-day combined presentation of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
She worked as a medical doctor in the Department of Psychiatry at Tokyo University following World War II.
While serving as the pastor of Abbeville, he was elected as a representative of the First Estate in the Estates General, later serving in the National Constituent Assembly.
Across his four first-class matches, Neville scored a total of 143 runs at an average of 17.87, with a highest score of 38.
His father Matthew Poole (or Pool) owned a coffee house and hotel at 1 Princes Street and lived above.
He divides his attention between attending therapeutic teaching conferences, which have taken him around the world, and the writing of his books, which he considers therapeutic tools.
In 1976 he worked as a psychologist for prisoners in Western Australia, researching public views on punishment for crimes and court sentencing.
Both are fully present in the moment and feel a union with the other." The four major concepts in the science of caring are health, nursing, environment or society, and human being.
In the late 1830s he was a pioneer advocate of mental health reform, and in 1838 he became superintendent of the Montrose Asylum, succeeding W.
Research Bigby’s research focuses on practice that enhances the engagement, inclusion, and quality of life of adults and older people who have intellectual and cognitive disabilities.
In October 2004 she received her 'Doctorate in Human Sexuality' from the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco.
She also acquired certifications in sex and relationship therapy from the Cambridge Health Alliance of Harvard Medical School and Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS).
He started to be known as Andrew Skarbek and in 1969 became clinical director of the London Clinic of Psychotherapy.
Arnold published a two-volume work titled Observations on the Nature, Kinds, Causes and Prevention of Insanity, the first volume appearing in 1782 and the second in 1806.
In 2017, Salzer was a founding member of the initiative Omas gegen Rechts together with Susanne Scholl.
In 1782, Duncan founded the Harveian Society of Edinburgh, which also still meets today and - like other Harveian societies - celebrates the work of physician and anatomist William Harvey, especially concerning the circulation of the blood.
It maintains the scalability and agency that define self-help techniques while enhancing (rather than replacing) human healthcare providers and unlocking the therapeutic power associated with guiding.
She received her BA degree from Fort Hare University in 1977, and completed her Honours in Psychology in 1979.
Graham made the decision "after being quoted £35,000 on Airbnb for a month’s stay." == References ==
Later, Byers, Kaitlyn Goldsmith and Amanda Miller concluded that out of 107 men and 102 women, only 30 percent would choose to live life as the opposite gender.
She then taught at the University of Surrey for some years before returning to Scotland, this time to the University of Glasgow where she became Head of the Section of Psychological Medicine and led the development of the Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
More recently she has participated in research around aging and the benefits of mindfulness and community.
"Variables in delayed disclosure of childhood sexual abuse." American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 71.3 (2001): 332.
Early life and education Zussman was born Shirley Edit Dlugasch on July 23, 1914, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
Bibliography He is author of a book on resiliency and on the gut-brain-connection, both published in German (“Resilienz: Der Wir-Faktor”, Schattauer-Verlag, "Die Darm-Hirn-Connection: Revolutionäres Wissen für unsere psychische und körperliche Gesundheit", Schattauer-Verlag).
Kamiya entered the Juyu Gakuen, but changed her school within a few months to the Girls' High School of Seijo Gakuen (it now has a higher education department; Seijo University).
Although she joined NYU in 2022, she remains affiliated with Northwell Health and the Zucker School of Medicine.
George Earl Murphy (October 17, 1922 – 2022) was an American psychiatrist who made seminal contributions to research on suicide, psychotherapy, and alcoholism.
This opened in 1897 in front of Horfield Prison as the Royal Victoria Home, for Inebriate Women, licensed as a (Voluntary) Retreat under the 1879 Habitual Drunkards Act.
It includes series of authored and co-authored papers, artwork, and poetry in the form of an "Archive of Resistance: Anti-Anorexia/anti-Bulimia." Publications 1989.
Academic career Spring has held faculty appointments in preventive medicine, psychology, and psychiatry, and has worked at the intersection of behavioral science and public health.
In 1866, he was elected President of the Medico-Psychological Association, and he used his Presidential Address as an opportunity to spell out (at considerable length) his concepts of medical psychology.
Ballantine Books.Publication date June 27, 2023 ISBN 9780593497241 See also Race and health in the United States Mental distress References External links Official website
She was inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame, and awarded the Magnus Hirschfeld Medal, the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, the Leo Baeck Medal, the Planned Parenthood Margaret Sanger Award, and the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.
After education at private schools in and near Great Yarmouth, his brother Robert proposed to establish him in his house in London in order that he might study anatomy under Sir Anthony Carlisle at Westminster Hospital.
In 1993, Orford moved to the University of Birmingham initially to direct the training programme in clinical psychology.
In November 2000, the GPA's first annual general meeting took place in Killarney, County Kerry, where Farrell was elected as chairman.
He was clinically trained at the Shalvata Mental Health Center in Hod-Hasharon, Israel (1997–1999) and the Yale Child Study Center (2002–2004).
David Westbrook commended his writing style, stating he employed a "balanced approach" and wrote in a "clear" manner.
Work Pasricha has investigated and participated in about 500 cases of reincarnation involving children (referred to as subjects) since 1973 who claim to remember previous lives.
Crichton's extensive collection of minerals consisted mainly of specimens from Siberia, Russia, Norway, Hungary, Germany, the UK, the US and India.
As a reforming feminist, she ensured that her writing was non-sexist at a time when others had not yet adapted their attitudes.
ISBN 978-0-7553-5526-6 Non fiction A Load of Old Balls: Men in History (London: Simon & Schuster, 1994).
A recovered alcoholic, (treated by Max Glatt), Bolton founded the Rutland Centre for addiction treatment in 1978, and co-founded the Irish branch of Narcotics Anonymous in 1983.
He completed his clinical psychology internship at the Department of Psychology, Institute for Juvenile Research at University of Illinois at Chicago.
In 1840, he published his last, and he considered his best book, The Physiological and Moral Management of Infancy.
2009 Extraordinary General Meeting In 2009, Chua's supporters sparked an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) to challenge Ong Tee Keat's presidency and to reinstate Dr Chua back as a MCA member and deputy president.
The concept of emotional agility was named as the best business management idea of the year by Harvard Business Review.
Early life Newton was voted most improved player his junior year and "most valuable lineman" and All-League defensive tackle his senior year at John Glenn High School.
In these roles he worked closely with Dr Thomas Clouston of the Edinburgh Asylum, who was also a close neighbour (26 Heriot row).
In 1997, Watson sustained an injury that resulted in the loss of her left eye, then a year later, her husband of 37 years died by suicide.
She appeared as a guest on many TV shows such as Embarrassing Bodies, Extreme Phobias, Porn Laid Bare and Gadget Show.
OCLC 965120240.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Steele, David Ramsay (2019).
Later, he studied for an MA in Philosophy Applied to Healthcare from the University of Wales, Swansea.
Adler (inferiority complex) Lauren Alloy Nathan Azrin B Richard Bandler, co-founder of neuro-linguistic programming (NLP) David H.
Publications A Descriptive Notice of the Sussex Lunatic Asylum, Haywards Heath (1859) A Case of Homicidal Mania, Without Disorder of the Intellect (1860) The Care and Treatment of the Insane Poor (1867) == References ==
Charles Sidney Bluemel (17 July 1884 – 17 December 1960) was a British–American psychiatrist and pioneer of speech pathology, best known for his research on stuttering.
Louis Francisque Lélut (1804–1877) was a French medical doctor and philosopher known for his works Démon de Socrate and L'Amulette de Pascal, where he stated that Socrates and Blaise Pascal were insane.
She has done research on large quantities of video recorded conversations between doctors and patients and has built a database of over 16,000 entries.
Resolution Phase/Termination Phase The termination phase of the nurse client relationship occurs after the current goals for the client have been met.
He died in May 1873 from injuries inflicted by a patient in Fisherton House Asylum, Salisbury, during an inspection.
His proposers were Sir Andrew Douglas Maclagan, John Sibbald, Sir William Turner and Alexander Buchan.
"Inky" Flaherty (27 September 1917 – 20 May 1992) was an Irish hurler who played at senior level for the Galway county team from 1936 until 1953, and was also a noted boxer.
In 2008, Asagwara completed a Bachelor of Science in Psychiatric Nursing from the University of Winnipeg and Brandon University.
"Brief cognitive-behavioral phone-based intervention targeting anxiety about the threat of attack: A pilot study." Behaviour Research and Therapy 43.5 (2005): 669-679.
Stemberger has edited and published five important Gestalt psychological anthologies: The first appeared in 2002 and contains classical and contemporary Gestalt psychological contributions to psychopathology ("Psychische Störungen im Ich-Welt-Verhältnis").
Following the death of her husband and business partner, Dennis Minogue, in 1981, Forum magazine closed.
Frank Tallis (born 1 September 1958) is an English author and clinical psychologist, whose area of expertise is obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
Sudders holds a bachelor's degree with honors and a master's degree in social work from Boston University, and honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts School of Professional Psychology and Bridgewater State University.
Petar Turković (born 1 November 1957) is a Croatian clinical psychologist, psychotherapist, social entrepreneur, master of martial arts, and sports executive.
"Yes, Gambling Is Productive and Rational", Liberty (1997), reprinted in A Rhetoric of Argument by Jeanne Fahnestock and Marie Secor.
Boylston was still anxious for adventure and wrote to a friend "Daddy wants me to settle down, but I'm young!
Elias is also responsible for the Catholic Christian Education Committee, and supervises the Catholic Church educational centres in Greater Damascus.
Research Linden's research has focused on cardiovascular health and hypertension, specifically psychosocial risk factors, stress reactivity, and behavioral treatments targeted at reducing health risk behaviors.
From 2004 to 2009, she was race equality programme lead for National Institute for Mental Health in England.
In later years, she suffered from the neurodegenerative condition, progressive supranuclear palsy, and ended her life at Dignitas in Switzerland.
An exception to this pattern appears to be perceived social support from family members, which – according to Shahar and Henrich – should be the principal target of preventive interventions.
If a person wants to regain his ability to be happy or be happier, he had to work his way through these layers.
Spider-Man Duane wrote a trilogy of Spider-Man novels, The Venom Factor, for Byron-Preiss Multimedia from 1994 to 1996.
Tarumianz who was looking for nurses with a background in psychology, hired Mitchell to come work for him at the Governor Bacon Health Center.
The play showcased the sex therapist's life from fleeing the Nazis in the Kindertransport and joining the Haganah in Jerusalem as a scout and sniper, to her struggles to succeed as a single mother coming to the United States.
Early life and education June Selena Dobbs was born in Atlanta, Georgia on June 11, 1928, to Irene (née Thompson) and John Wesley Dobbs, an American civil and political leader.
"Management of Neuropsychiatric Symptoms of Dementia in Clinical Settings: Recommendations from a Multidisciplinary Expert Panel".
Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Bettany, George Thomas (1888).
Robert Wilfred Skeffington Lutwidge (17 January 1802 – 28 May 1873) was an English barrister, Commissioner in Lunacy and early photographer.
She owns a Yorkshire Terrier named Monica (モニカ), who functions as the mascot for her counseling business.
She currently holds a doctorate in counseling psychology, two postgraduate diplomas, and an undergraduate degree, all within the field of psychology.
He was the author of Visions in Verse, first published in 1751; and a two volume complete collection of his works was published in 1791.
On 14 January 2014, Brand presented an episode of The Great Sport Relief Bake Off on BBC Two, a charity version of The Great British Bake Off.
In 1847, Gull was elected Fullerian Professor of Physiology at the Royal Institution of Great Britain, a post which he held for two years, during which time he formed a close friendship with Michael Faraday, at that time Fullerian Professor of Chemistry.
References External links Official website Dil Wickremasinghe Archived 17 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine at Newstalk 2014 Interview on Ireland AM
Dovzhenko, has an incredible effect: from 82% to 93% of his patients give up drinking and become full-fledged human beings." In 1985 in Feodosia's Stamboli Palace building Dovzhenko opened the Republican Narcological Psychotherapy Center under the Ministry of Healthcare of Soviet Ukraine.
She also received the 2021 Distinguished Scientist Award from the Society of Behavioral Medicine, which described the honor as the organization's highest annual award.
1960s In the 1960s, Abbot attended Dundee Commercial College to attain the Highers he needed to attend university.
She decided to withdraw from the cameras and continue working in the production area until 1980, in order to study psychology in the United States and due to the birth of her first child in 1981.
According to Buchanan, Eysenck believed that the quality of his research would "help temper social wrongs and excesses".
"The wife, the mother, and the slut: sexual pleasure for the Filipino woman a grounded theory approach".
He then proceeded to the Institute of Psychiatry in London where he completed the Diploma in Clinical Psychology followed by a PhD.
Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center and held a leadership role in team science at the Northwestern University Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute.
Career After his postdoctoral training, Zimet joined Case Western Reserve University as an Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (1986–1987), then as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, a position he held from 1987 to 1993.
Thus, having an underlying system of medical knowledge was a practical way to organize the knowledge coherently for the students.
She also co-authored Protecting Your Child from Sexual Abuse: What You Need to Know to Keep Your Kids Safe (2018, 2nd ed.
Awards 2008 - 2009 - President, British Psychological Society 2009 - Secretary General, European Federation of Psychologists' Associations == References ==
Morse contributes frequently to many major online publications including Glamour, Cosmopolitan, Ask Men, Popsugar, Pattiknows.com, Men's Health, and Harper's Bazaar.
McIntosh's research focuses on assessing and improving the outcomes of therapies for psychological disorders, such as eating disorders, depression and anxiety.
At Duke, she was co-director of the psychiatric, epidemiology, and health services research program from 1989 to 1997.
Byers' analysis of the results was that sexist beliefs and stereotypes played a role in the participants' answers.
Andreas Maercker (born 26 April 1960) is a German clinical psychologist and international expert in traumatic stress-related mental disorders who works in Switzerland.
She married Northern Irish author Peter Morwood in 1987; they later moved to the United Kingdom and then to Ireland, where they resided in Grangecon, County Wicklow.
In 1791, he published a book entitled Philosophy of madness, which some consider the first book in the field of psychiatry.
Stress and coping among college students in the Dominican Republic.Californian Journal of Health Promotion, 15 (1), 78-84.
Research work For many years, Rief's scientific work focused on the investigation of psychological factors in the development, maintenance and management of physical complaints.
In 2005, he was accused of copying the fifth part of his book, Shimriti, from a text by Mónica Cavallé, though he later declared that it was "an absolutely involuntary error" while citing sources.
Arnold’s classification divided mental illness into two major groups: "ideal" and "notional." Each group contained numerous subdivisions and many were interchangeable.
Morse is also an alumna of the Somatica Institute in San Francisco where she received training as a sex and relationship coach.
While exhibiting her paintings and collages, she began creating children's books that were first published in 1972.
After graduation, she began her career at Massachusetts General Hospital School of Nursing, and held different administrative positions, including head nurse, supervisor, and superintendent.
A Publishers Weekly review said that his book The Myth of Sex Addiction "makes a thoughtful and persuasive argument, using case studies and ample references to the work of other psychologists to flesh out his case.
Kotov is a clinical psychologist and professor in the Renaissance School of Medicine at Stony Brook University.
Zimet is an American clinical psychologist and academic researcher known for his work on vaccination attitudes and behavior, particularly regarding human papillomavirus vaccination (HPV), and for co-developing the Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS).
Arriving in Granada in 1878, he met two women - María Josefa Recio and María Angustias Giménez - who in 1881 set up a women's hospital.
In L'Aquila, he first created the specialist degree course in sexology (Faculty of Psychology) and then, in collaboration with Sapienza University of Rome, the "Clinical Psychosexology" master's degree course.
In 1988, Ros co-founded the influential Systemic Thinking and Practice book series and her title Teaching Family Therapy (1993) remains key text in the field.
Coping strategies are classified as either healthy or unhealthy, depending on their likelihood of additional adverse consequences.
Sudders left office at the end of the Baker–Polito administration and joined the lobbying, public policy, and consulting firm of Smith, Costello and Crawford.
By measuring the relationship between educational data and social well-being over time, Rindermann also performed a causal analysis, finding that nations investing in education leads to increased well-being later on.
Na has received multiple awards from organizations such as the National Institute of Mental Health and the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry.
Selected exhibitions and performances Batten remained a feminist artist throughout the eighties and nineties known for her collaborative art projects for women and ritual performances.
In May 2009, Jaman became a founding member and chief executive of Mental health first aid (MHFA) England, which is a not-for-profit organisation that teaches people how to identify and support a person who may be experiencing mental ill health.
Binswanger also thought that it is only possible to observe one's existence and/or unique personality by looking at it holistically, emphasized in this quote from Binswanger: It is a question of attempting to understand and to explain the human being in the totality of his/her existence.
A Methodist, he has frequently spoken publicly about the role of faith and spirituality in sustaining recovery.
Although he enjoyed the academic parts of his schooling, he enjoyed sport more, playing cricket in the summer and rugby union in the winter.
Another son, William Withering Arnold, received his MD at Cambridge and served on the asylum staff from 1800 to 1840.
Her research is focused on community participation, supported decision making, and quality of support for people who have intellectual and cognitive disabilities.
Those who practice psychiatry in the workplace are called occupational psychiatrists in the United States and occupational psychology is the name used for the most similar discipline in the UK.
She took particular interest in the lives of children in crisis, and after the war she chaired the juvenile panel of the Cambridge magistrates' courts from 1949 to 1958.
Personal life Provence has worked as a mental health counselor since August 1990, months after retiring from the NFL.
Blau Nathaniel Branden, notable as a clinician for sentence stems technique, style of group therapy, clinical approaches to self-esteem work David D.
Career Hester Adrian lived in Cambridge as the wife of a professor (who was also Master of Trinity College from 1951–1965), and a social hostess of the university, welcoming distinguished guests to Trinity College with her husband.
Pinsent attended Somerville College, Oxford, from 1919 to 1922, graduating with second-class honours in modern history.
Salvador Minuchin (October 13, 1921 – October 30, 2017) was a family therapist born and raised in San Salvador, Entre Ríos, Argentina.
He was a Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of London and Royal College of Surgeons of England.
Healthy narcissism Kinsey postulates that healthy narcissism is the ability to invest love in oneself and other people.
In 1999, he accepted a position at the University of Manchester, collaborating with researchers based there who were working in understanding the treatment of psychotic experiences.
Sir Frederick Walker Mott (23 October 1853 in Brighton, Sussex – 8 June 1926 in Birmingham, Warwickshire) was one of the pioneers of biochemistry in Britain.
Befrienders are carefully selected volunteers, from a variety of organisations and mental health charities, who are trained to provide support and companionship to lonely, or emotionally distressed, people.
In April 2020, Woebot added COVID-19 support, expanding its CBT support to include interpersonal psychotherapy.
When his training with Ackerman was complete, Minuchin returned to Israel to assist displaced children as a child psychiatrist (Nichols, 2010).
He participated in the founding of the Christian Theological Institute for Laity in Syria and launched with some lay people the Joint Qualification project providing proper preparation to Church leaders in Damascus.
Research and career He was Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry at Washington University School of Medicine.
In 1909 they expanded by leasing the Dower House in Bristol to create the core of the Stoke Park Colony.
113–7, PMID 5339997 Straus, E (1966), "[To the memory of Ludwig Binswanger 1881-1966]", Der Nervenarzt, vol.
Awards and honors 2006: Premio de Novela Ciudad de Torrevieja, winner, El Candidato References External links (Spanish:) Healthy Mind, Jorge Bucay's magazine (Spanish:) Amarse con los ojos abiertos Forum (Spanish:) Biography
In addition, de la Macorra participated in two songs in El Chavo del Ocho: the song "That, that, that" in the 1979 episode "Valentine's Day Part 1" and "Cri Crí", which appears at the end of the episode "Children's Day ”, also from 1979.
She also helped found the International Association of Therapists for Desisters and Detransitioners (IATDD) and the Gender Dysphoria Support Network (GDSN) in 2020.
See also History of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder References Further reading Charland, Louis C (September 2008).
He then studied for a winter in London, and settled in the following year at Durham; but moved back to London by the advice of Sir William Knighton in 1812.
Along with the French neurologist Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard, his work enabled paraplegic symptoms to be understood in context with the prevailing, limited understanding of spinal cord pathology, for the first time.
The Culbertson family moved to Washington D.C in 1950 on account of her husband's work with the Federal Reserve Board.
She treated sex therapy patients in a private practice, on East 73rd Street on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Rief was spokesperson of the Commission "Psychology and Psychotherapy Training" of the German Society for Psychology (DGPs) and advocated, among other things, a revision of the Psychotherapists Act, which was finally approved by the German Bundestag in 2019.
from Otago University in 1921, and returned to London on a Medical Travelling Scholarship, registering as a medical practitioner on August 10, 1923.
The right to make choices about sexuality, control over such rights and related issues are voiced regularly at international forums.
in statistics in 1967 from the Department of Mathematical Statistics in the Columbia Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.
She continued her education in the United States with a diploma in nursing at Johns Hopkins Hospital and a Bachelor of Science from Columbia University.
She shares this belief to help her students conduct research that has positive real world application.
He began playing club cricket for Leinster in 1941, before moving to Malahide, where he was to play the majority of his club cricket.
Life and career Born at Leeds, Yorkshire, he was educated at Harrow School, where he had for contemporaries Lord Byron and Robert Peel.
In October 1817, he went to Paris to complete his medical studies, specialising in anatomy and investigating cerebral morphology under Spurzheim's supervision in 1818–19.
Graham was an executive producer of the 2018 short film Ponyboi, along with executive producers Stephen Fry, Johan Sorenson, Elizabeth Sorenson, and DJ Rutherford, and co-producers Emma Thompson, Rachel Singer, and Jamison Monroe.
She co-chaired the Forum on Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine and has served as a board member and vice president for the Association of Public Policy and Management.
Although Kotb says that she is open to most questions, as part of her proposal she agreed to not discuss sex outside of marriage.
"Treating the Sexual Intimacy Concerns of Sexual Abuse Survivors." Sexual and Relationship Therapy, Vol 17, No 4.
She has been a mental health practitioner since 2011 and worked as a college counselor until 2014, when she created Therapy for Black Girls.
Barbarin received the 1979 Distinguished Public Service Award from the Prince George's County Government and the 2015 Distinguished Contributions to Understanding International, Cultural, and Contextual Diversity in Child Development Award from the Society for Research in Child Development.
In support of these measures, Ashley gave a speech in which he claimed that although since 1828 there had been an improvement, more still needed to be done.
After a visit to Switzerland, he returned to Edinburgh in 1819, intending to start a practice there.
The 1868 deposition of Queen Isabella II set off renewed persecution and Menni - chosen as the Superior of the order in 1872 - found himself the object of constant threats.
The reservoir's water level is normally 1,991 meters above sea level, but on November 10 was only 1,968 meters above sea level.
An international appeal was made by the United Nations, NGOs, and the Red Cross and Red Crescent for around US$25 million to assist the government.
The national energy matrix has no emergency reserves and by 2004 it was functioning at the top of its capacity.
Essentially abandoning the intermediate designation in favor of becoming mid-size vehicles, the A-body vehicles adopted a footprint slightly smaller than the X-body compacts.
In fact, the Council of Economic Advisors published a consensus estimate that a one-year, 50 percent increase in the price of oil could temporarily raise the price level of the economy by one percent and potentially lower real output by the same amount.
The early stages of the Special Period were defined by a general breakdown in transportation and agricultural sectors, fertilizer and pesticide stocks (both of those being manufactured primarily from petroleum derivatives), and widespread food shortages.
China is the largest buyer of Iranian oil, and had stressed the importance of protecting global shipping routes.
The generic term is "transition initiative", which includes transition neighborhoods, communities, and cities, although "transition town" is in common usage.
which overlap with powerful fractions of the capitalist class," are the most responsible for environmental impacts through their consumption patterns worldwide.
Production Greer published a short version of this story on his blog, the Archdruid Report, in October 2012.
It is suggested that this process can help companies increase profitability by reducing raw material and waste disposal cost, reducing carbon emission, making their by-products a source of revenue to be bought by other business.
In March 2005, President Kirchner admitted that "for a long time the possibility will remain that we must move on the brink [of a crisis]".
However, the high process heat of the molten salt reactors could be used to make liquid fuels from any carbon source.
Factors which can modify this curve include: Inadequate demand for oil, which reduces steepness of the curve and pushes its peak into the future.
In 2016, the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and 11 other NGOs released a report on the impact of building new coal-fired power plants in countries where a significant proportion of the population lacks access to electricity.
Another elaborated about the saturation of demand hypothesis: They say as we get richer, we'll want to travel more.
Also that day, US military intelligence sources reported that Iran had begun planting naval mines in the Strait of Hormuz.
The actual shape of a graph of real world production trends is determined by various factors, such as development of enhanced production techniques, availability of competing resources, and government regulations on production or consumption.
Interest free loans were provided for the conversion of vehicles to run on gas and subsidies were provided for gas refueling infrastructure.
The addition of more complex power cycles would reduce this requirement and help enable frost free operation.
As winter approached, the Argentine government announced that it would restrict natural gas exports in order to preserve the supply for internal consumption, both domestic and industrial, in compliance with the Hydrocarbons Law.
In November 2010 by Millard-Ball and Schipper presented data confirming the trend in cities in eight nations: United States, Canada, Sweden, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Japan and Australia.
Themes currently in production Each set will be listed on the Playmobil shop either for sale or out of stock.
should be an important part of the University of Toronto's response to the challenges of climate change." However, the report went further, and allied itself with the Paris Agreement.
In October 2025, the government announced a moratorium on the zeroing of the fuel damper, the exemption of winter diesel fuel from excise duty, and an extension of the gasoline export ban until 1 May 2026.
The "environmental Kuznets curve" (EKC) hypothesis posits that at early stages of development, pollution per capita and GDP per capita move in the same direction.
According to Lewis after the Palestine Liberation Organization had reached an agreement with Israel, there was some division among the groups, however they continue to lobby for Palestinians.
History In the early days of the oil industry, there was no need for stimulation to improve recovery efficiency, because supply vastly outstripped demand and leaving "difficult" oil in the ground was economically expedient.
Government involvement The Australian government became involved in the scam in a number of ways—through defence-force agencies and personnel, through the export agency Austrade and directly through successful lobbying of federal minister for science Julie Bishop and Prime Minister John Howard.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
After Media Blasters' license expired, Discotek Media announced at Otakon 2018 on August 12 that they have picked up the series for a Blu-ray release.
Ecuador experienced rolling blackouts for two to six hours per day that lasted from November 2009 until January 2010.
One person interviewed in the movie questions whether it is a good idea to have both a president and vice president who are close to the oil industry.
In 2009 alone, the United Arab Emirates spent $5.3 million, as the Emirates were seeking nuclear technology.
The term proven reserves is further subdivided into proved developed reserves and proved undeveloped reserves.
While titles like Bubblegum Crisis 2040, Dirty Pair Flash and Tekkaman Blade gave modern spins to old classics, the creators of Giant Robo decided to go with a "retro" look.
According to estimates, 50% of the electricity generated in Argentina depends on gas-powered plants.
The signature Playmobil toy is a 7.5 cm (3.0 in) tall (1:24 scale) human figure with a smiling face.
This group also administers the "ring fence" corporation tax and supplementary charge paid by companies on profits from oil and gas production, and previously administered the royalty charged on the gross value of oil and gas won.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
1974, a blow-out at Champion-41 caused a delay in the appraisal/development operations and to compensate for this delay, eight isolated appraisal wells were drilled in 1975 - 1976.
The collectible card game Netrunner (also by Richard Garfield) has a card called "Nevinyrral" which has the effect of giving the Corporate player an extra action each turn, but if this card goes away the Corporate player loses.
Colin Campbell also contributed the foreword to the book and Heinberg quotes from his research in the book.
Dramarama (Icelandic: Villiljós) is a 2001 Icelandic comedy-drama film directed by Inga Lísa Middleton, Dagur Kári, Ragnar Bragason, Ásgrímur Sverrisson and Einar Thór Gunnlaugsson.
The 1967 Oil Embargo began on June 6, 1967, the second day of the Six-Day War, with a joint Arab decision to deter any countries from supporting Israel militarily.
On 31 March, Trump told countries that were having trouble getting fuel due to the closer to fend for themselves, saying that the US would not help them.
Past keynote speeches have been given by the energy secretaries and ministers of Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Mexico, Norway, and the United States.
That goal was based on a market that was 67 percent cars and 33 percent trucks and SUVs and higher fuel prices, but American customers weren't buying that many cars, as the market was still about 50/50 and was likely to stay that way.
But generations arise from shared formative experiences, not headcounts, and the two groups evolved with dramatic differences.
A survey of 301 businesses conducted by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry showed on 18 June 2008 that nearly 630 employees had already been, or could be, stood down or made redundant - nearly 1% of the workforce surveyed.
As for the global usefulness of the Hirsch conclusions, as of 2004, the US share of global oil consumption was about 26%, while its share of the world population was only 4.3%; Europe used 11% of global oil while having about 6.8% of the world population.
The United States advocated emergency measures in OECD meetings and supported the establishment of an International Industry Advisory Board.
Police are taking action, requesting petrol stations to close temporarily in order to keep traffic flowing.
Major metropolitan areas including Kyiv, Kharkiv, Odesa, and Zhytomyr developed emergency power systems for critical infrastructure, focusing on maintaining water supply, heating, and sanitation services.
Globalization and modernization have brought Western consumer cultures to countries like China and India, including meat-intensive diets which are supplanting traditional plant-based diets.
South Africa responded to anti-apartheid embargoes by switching from imported crude oil to coal liquefaction producing gasoline and diesel profitably from coal and natural gas using Fischer-Tropsch synthesis.
(NYT, Reuters) March 12: The near-month (April) crude oil futures price at the NYMEX settles at $37.83 per barrel, the highest near-month settlement price (in nominal terms) since October 1990.
It was capable of handling vessels up to 100 feet (30 m) long and weighing 100 tonnes (98 long tons; 110 short tons).
The government "ignored these precedents, as well as industry advice, to develop an appropriate contingency response plan to deal with such a crisis and accordingly deserves strong criticism".
On 10 November, during a visit by the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen to Moldova, a 250 million-euro financial package from the European Union (EU) was announced to help Moldova deal with its energy crisis.
Bardi concluded that rapid collapse is not a flaw, or "bug" as he terms it, but a "varied and ubiquitous phenomena" with multiple causes and resultant pathways.
Arab American civil rights and advocacy groups The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) was started in 1980 by United States Senator James Abourezk.
As the Chinese strategists had anticipated, the Americans are unable to imagine that they might actually be defeated, and therefore double down on their existing military strategy, further depleting American reserves and matériel.
They believe they share few traits and cultural touchstones with a noisy cohort that overshadowed them." Larry Edelman, writing for The Boston Globe and identifying as a Gen Joneser, said of his generation: "too young for Woodstock, too old to identify with Gen X.
Oil Embargo The Baghdad Resolutions were important because Egypt broadcast claims of US aircraft support on June 6.
Prices then dropped back to $60/barrel by the early part of 2007 before rising steeply again to $92/barrel by October 2007, and $99.29/barrel for December futures in New York on November 21, 2007.
Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) is a consulting company in the United States that specializes in advising governments and private companies on energy markets, geopolitics, industry trends, and strategy.
The list excludes fields where commercial development has been unsuccessful and fields with no current plan for development and extraction.
Plan is to allow for gradual 2-3 percent annual price increases, however, domestic petroleum prices remain at Phase I levels.
However, the Moldovan government's crisis centre reported on 4 January that coal reserves for the power station would only last until the end of January, after which Transnistria would be left without electricity.
Cost-push inflation can also result from a rise in expected inflation, which in turn the workers will demand higher wages, thus causing inflation.
Currently delivery lorries mostly have second smaller diesel engines to power cooling when the main engine is off.
It has promoted actively professors John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt's book The Israel Lobby and U.S.
They plan to accomplish this by "inspiring, encouraging, supporting, networking and training individuals and their communities as they consider, adopt, adapt, and implement the transition approach to community empowerment and change".
On a week when oil fell the most since 2014, Russia rejected plans by OPEC and others to help calm the oil market, and Saudi Arabia was expected to increase production.
With the exception of the Dodge Viper and Plymouth Prowler, the 1989 M-platform vehicles were the last rear-wheel drive Chrysler cars produced until the 2005 introduction of the LX platform.
Other oil-consuming nations In response to the high oil prices of the 1970s, industrial nations took steps to reduce their dependence on the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC) oil.
Lewis states that they also offered testimony to congress and criticized Israel's congressional and organizational supporters, sought to pass pro-Palestinian resolutions in state and national party platforms; offering pro-Palestinian testimony before Congress and attempted to sue Israel in U.S.
Thus, furthering the spread of the transition movement while networking related organizations, projects, ideas and activities.
References External links The novella: The Magic Goes Away title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database The series: The Magic Goes Away series listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
The average daily dietary energy consumption of Cuban citizens during the periods of 1990–92 and 1995–97 were 2,720 and 2,440 kcal/person/day respectively.
During its brief period of operation, which ended on 30 June 1929, S-1 produced a total of 5,320 barrels of oil.
Analysis of 22 trace elements in oils correlate significantly better with chondrite, serpentinized fertile mantle peridotite, and the primitive mantle than with oceanic or continental crust, and shows no correlation with seawater.
Supplies of electricity in Guangdong province, the manufacturing hub of China, are predicted to fall short by an estimated 10 GW.
On 10 January, authorities again ordered schools and government offices closed in roughly one-third of the country’s provinces as several power plants remained shut for lack of fuel.
He told an interviewer for The Atlantic in 2007, "When I think of Baby Boomers, I think of my mother's generation.
The revenues from sales authorized under section 403 will be deposited into the general fund of the U.S.
Players who ordered Frontlines from online retailer Amazon.com were given a limited-edition collector's tin.
For the most part, proven reserves are stated by the oil companies, the producer states and the consumer states.
Lack of fertilizer and agricultural machinery caused a shift towards organic farming and urban farming.
Public Interest Group, met with the Task Force (although not with Vice President Cheney personally).
Origins The National Association of Arab-Americans (NAAA), founded in 1972, was a political advocacy group whose goals were "to strengthen U.S.
Green recovery initiatives are supported by the United Nations (UN) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
The enchantment eventually consumes all of the mana in the vicinity, which causes a localized failure in all magic.
On 30 July 1979, the government introduced carless days, where private motorists had to choose one day of the week, on which they could not drive their motor vehicle.
Taxi drivers reported long petrol queues in Clarence Place, Corporation Road and parts of Maindee in Newport.
In January 2023, a report by BP predicted that the world will sharply reduce its reliance on oil and gas, over the next 25 years.
Beyond a certain income level, emissions per capita decrease as GDP per capita increases, thus generating a U-shaped relationship between GDP per capita and pollution.
The smallest model of the Mustang ever, the 1974 Mustang II was 6 inches shorter than the 1964½ debut version.
Rasau is part of an 11-kilometre road connecting Sungai Teraban and Sungai Tujoh, which facilitates easier travel between Brunei and Sarawak's Miri Division, including Miri and surrounding areas.
Part III – discusses the gap between the center of the World System and the developing world as it existed then, with a focus on village culture and unemployment in India.
A large proportion of the developed world's population live in suburbs, a type of low-density settlement designed with the automobile in mind.
Carbonate decomposition Calcium carbonate may decompose at around 500 °C (932 °F) through the following reaction: Reaction 5: Hydrogen + calcium carbonate → methane + calcium oxide + water 4 H2 + CaCO3 → CH4 + CaO + 2 H2O Note that CaO (lime) is not a mineral species found within natural rocks.
The controversial Corn Laws were a protectionist two-sided measure of subsidies on corn exports and tariffs on corn imports.
Most of the carbon dioxide is removed so the gas can meet the specifications of the onshore pipelines and end users.
The South African Government has said that there was no shortage of fuel in the country, but prices have increased and some petrol stations have introduced their own rationing of diesel.
On January 26, 2008, Dushanbe cut power to places of entertainment (including restaurants, shops, pharmacies, markets, and public bathhouses), causing many to close until spring.
Unconventional reservoirs, in contrast, are regionally dispersed over large areas with no indicative trap geometry that can be used for predictive purposes.
However, the government also pointed out that remedies are on the works, and that Argentina is better prepared than in 2004 to face problems with energy generation.
History From Kinsale to Totnes In 2004, permaculture designer Rob Hopkins set his students at Kinsale Further Education College the task of applying permaculture principles to the concept of peak oil.
In April 2008, Pradeep Mitra, World Bank chief economist for Europe and Central Asia, issued an uncharacteristic statement, urging the worse-hit countries to spend more on social assistance and "top up" their social programs.
Criticism Environmental economists and critics of globalized capitalism take issue with this theory for a number of reasons.
Uzbekistan Beginning in late December 2007, the unusually harsh weather had frozen the gas supply to numerous homes and businesses across Uzbekistan.
Stephen Sorrell, senior lecturer Science and Technology Policy Research, Sussex Energy Group, and lead author of the UKERC Global Oil Depletion report, and Christophe McGlade, doctoral researcher at the UCL Energy Institute have criticized Maugeri's assumptions about decline rates.
With a small 17" x 22" hex grid map and only 80 counters, the game has been characterized as "not complex".
The Americans shoot down many of them, but as one missile after another finds its way through the ships' air defenses, the fleet is devastated: most of the ships, including the aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan, are either sunk or disabled.
Critics of the steady-state economy usually object to it by arguing that resource decoupling, technological development, and the operation of market mechanisms are capable of overcoming resource scarcity, pollution, or population overshoot.
These state sites, under the umbrella of a national Ning site, were set up to help facilitate, network, inform, monitor, and house regional and organizational transition initiatives.
Analog-only techniques are called yet-to-find (YTF), and involve identifying areas containing producing assets that are geologically similar to those being estimated and substituting data to match what is known about a segment.
New York City television and FM radio stations that transmit from the Empire State Building were off the air.
Petrochemical and energy related projects figured prominently, designed to utilise New Zealand's abundant natural gas to produce ammonia, urea fertiliser, methanol and petrol.
The system's total investments were about $589 million; the decision would affect $502,000 of direct investments in coal, which amounts to about 30% of the system's total ($1.7 million exposure to coal, including both direct and indirect investments).
The Petrol Retailers Association, whose membership represents more than 5,500 petrol stations, said that it knew nothing about any form of planned government contingency plans and was advising members to keep fuel levels high.
Some argue that overconsumption enables the existence of an "overclass", while others disagree with the role of overconsumption in class inequality.
Upon awakening, he finds himself at the mercy of Antonio Malochio, Jade's killer and the mastermind behind the plan.
The government's communication with industry and customers was "sporadic at best", and it should have declared a state of emergency to control gas distribution, rather than leaving distribution to market forces and a bulletin board system.
The trade war with China caused concerns, though possible actions by Trump helped slightly on May 24.
Numerous highways and streets experienced blackouts, including a 24-hour power outage on the critical Haraz road, which connects Tehran to northern cities.
The story explores a society completely brought down, within the span of one week, because of dependency on a single energy source and a state of prosperity tainted by compromise and deceit.
Mighty Gin Rei (鉄腕銀鈴, Tetsuwan GinRei), released between volumes 5 and 6 of Giant Robo, is a send up of super robot series and features Ken Ishikawa as guest mech designer.
West Germany West Germany, Europe's largest economy at the time, had the largest post-war GDP fall in 1975.
Industrial gas provider BOC reduced its supply of carbon dioxide to pubs for draft beer, whilst the shortage also threatened WA's wineries, who use carbon dioxide for bottling.
Although swift continued growth in China is often predicted, others predict that China's export-dominated economy will not continue such growth trends due to wage and price inflation and reduced demand from the US.
Horst Brandstätter, the owner of the company, asked Beck to develop toy figures for children instead.
Several Middle Eastern countries eventually limited their oil shipments, some embargoing only the United States and the United Kingdom, while others placed a total ban on oil exports.
Most olivines also contain high nickel concentrations (up to several percent) and may also contain chromite or chromium as a contaminant in olivine, providing the needed transition metals.
Production Non-OPEC During the 1980s, reliance on Middle East production dwindled as commercial exploration developed major non-OPEC oilfields in Siberia, Alaska, the North Sea, and the Gulf of Mexico, and the Soviet Union became the world's largest producer of oil.
Activists and politicians, particularly younger people, demanded a "Green New Deal" in the US, a Green Industrial Revolution in the UK, and to end the use of fossil fuels in transport, energy generation, agriculture, buildings, and finance.
However, in an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Daniel Yergin, previously known for his quotes that the price of oil would soon return down to "normal", amended the company's position on 7 May 2008 to predict that oil would reach $150 during 2008, due to tightness of supply.
The EGDP-01 platform was put in the field and the gases would then be carried by pipelines to the Brunei LNG plant, via South West Ampa gas field.
This idea is supported by economist Robert Solow who claimed that four-fifths of US economic growth could be attributed to technological development (the other fifth being accounted for by expansion of labor and capital).
Availability of cheap, but hard to transport, natural gas in some oil fields has led to using natural gas to fuel enhanced oil recovery.
Seattle University (Seattle, Washington, US) – in September 2018, following student group pressure Seattle University is the first university in Washington state to divest its endowment of fossil fuels over the next five years.
Sandra Johnston had fled to Bali after the seizure of Johnston's passports, concerned at her own potential liability due to her position as a company director between 2005 and 2008.
History Initiation of the inflationary cycle is traced to Anthony Barber's 1972 budget which was designed to return the Conservatives to power in an election expected in 1974 or 1975.
Overlapping environmental, social, and economic forces such as the 1973 energy crisis and popularisation of the concept of globalisation helped bring Schumacher's Small Is Beautiful critiques of mainstream economics to a wider audience during the 1970s.
In 1998, the acquisition of new high-resolution 3D seismic data over the shallow marine surf zone led to the identification of several undrilled blocks on the north flank of the Seria anticline.
Nevertheless, the embargo lasted only until January 1974, though the price of oil remained high afterwards.
Coal-fired power plants are particularly detrimental, emitting toxic substances that adversely affect human health.
As Jonesers reached adulthood, the United States military draft and involvement in the Vietnam War had ended; thus, they had no defining political cause, as opposition to the war was for the older Boomers.
At the time of the invasion, Iraq owed Kuwait $14 billion of outstanding debt that Kuwait had loaned it during the 1980–1988 Iran–Iraq War.
The disconnection led to a disturbance in the national power system, resulting in a nearly nationwide power shutdown, as other power stations failed repeatedly when attempting to come back online.
As a result, there had been numerous demonstrations and protests against the government, in favor of an insured uninterrupted supply of gas and electricity.
The extracted helium is stored underground in the National Helium Reserve near Amarillo, Texas, the self-proclaimed "Helium Capital of the World".
The Oil Embargo did not significantly decrease the amount of oil available in the United States or any affected European countries, due mainly to a lack of solidarity and uniformity in embargoing specific countries.
Pavel Sorokin from the Russian Ministry of Energy doubted that the cuts would work with stating following quotes: "We cannot fight a falling demand situation when there is no clarity about where the bottom is." "It is very easy to get caught in a circle when, by cutting once, you get into an even...
Currently, decline curve analysis software on PC computers is used to plot production decline curves for petroleum economics analysis.
Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is charged on "super-profits" arising from the exploitation of oil and gas in the UK and the UK's continental shelf.
For the first week of December, Brent fell 2.5 percent to $71.12 and WTI was down just over 1 percent to $67.20.
Yergin believes that world oil production will continue to rise until "perhaps sometime around mid-century" and then "plateau" or enter a gradual decline.
Playmobil toys are produced in themed series of sets as well as individual special figures and playsets.
Akins, who audited US capacity for Nixon after US peak, was US ambassador in Saudi Arabia at that time.
Transportation Communities are encouraged by The Transition Network to seek out methods for reducing energy usage as well as reducing their reliance on long supply chains that are totally dependent on fossil fuels for essential items (see environmental calculator).
Matthias Schmale, the UN's resident and humanitarian coordinator in Ukraine, stated in mid-November 2024 that Russian forces had destroyed approximately 65% of Ukraine's energy production capacity, creating what he estimated would likely be the most difficult winter period of conflict so far.
This is an example of mainstream media attention the movement received a few years after being founded.
That day, the Department of Budget and Management also approved the release of ₱20 billion (US$406.09 million) from the Malampaya gas fund to the DOE to secure fuel supply and stabilize availability amid global disruptions.
It has been noted that the Obama Administration has made the largest investment in the American history to have clean energy through renewable power generation.
Traffic-reducing policies such as the "pedestrianisation" of city centres, traffic calming, parking control, congestion charging.
Several notable key note speakers have visited DUG conferences including Leon Panetta at Pittsburgh's in 2014, T.
Reserves less than 90% recoverable but more than 50% are considered "probable reserves" and below 50% are "possible reserves".
The Minister of Electric Power and president of the National Electric Corporation (Corpoelec) threatened with the maximum penalty (25 to 30 years in prison) those who commit acts of sabotage.
The gap between Ted Heath's Tory government and the Labour opposition led by Harold Wilson, who had been prime minister for nearly six years until his surprise defeat by Heath's Tories in the 1970 election, was so narrow that the Tories received the most votes, but Labour won slightly more seats.
This opinion has been met with criticism by those who believe a peak has already occurred or is imminent.
They contend that implementing these alternatives could undermine the capitalist model of resource hoarding and distribution, leading to conspiracy theories regarding the suppression of free energy technologies.
On 27 September 1982, Muldoon introduced 'The Wage Freeze Regulations' that would freeze wages and prices on a national scale until 22 June 1983.
The government response was varied, and in Karakalpakstan, they met protesters and promised to rectify the situation, while the local government head of Hazarasp responded to a complaint by one woman by cutting off gas altogether to all the houses on her street.
reported negative economic growth during the 1970s and remained weak till the 1980s as the post World War II economic boom drew to a close.
As the cost of moving human workers continues to rise, while the cost of moving information electronically continues to fall, presumably market forces should cause more people to substitute virtual travel for physical travel.
Infrastructure The Rasau Bridge, which spans the Belait River, provides a direct route from Brunei to the Sungai Tujoh Immigration Checkpoint, eliminating the need for the often frustrating ferry service.
By 2016, several papers have cast doubt on the peak car phenomenon, demonstrating that economic and sociodemographic factors account for most or all of the observed slowdowns.
The larger dock had been towed to Kuala Belait three years earlier and was the first facility of its kind in Brunei, Sabah, or Sarawak.
In the long term, the theory implies faith that technological progress will allow backstop resources to be essentially unlimited (see also Cornucopian), and that need will cause the development of new technologies to become cost effective.
As oil prices spiked following the 1979 energy crisis, Canada began significant production of oil derived from tar sands, also known as bitumen.
Although reluctant, Groove proves himself a talented driver and a capable fighter, quickly picking up on the necessary skills to survive in battle.
Real-world examples Several real-world nations exhibit the characteristics of the Export Land Model as pictured in the image gallery above.
Synopsis Small Is Beautiful is divided into four parts: "The Modern World", "Resources", "The Third World", and "Organization and Ownership".
Computer Gaming World gave The Interstate '76 Arsenal 4 out of 5, Game Revolution gave it B+, and GameSpot gave it 7.6 out 10.
The Santiago Metro suspended all subway services throughout the capital, while Arturo Merino Benítez International Airport activated emergency power systems to maintain essential operations.
Qatari reserve categories With the publication of the 2020 corporate bond prospectus Qatar Energy introduced the term Confirmed Reserves for its North Field gas reserves.
Mexico proposed to cut its oil production by 100,000 bpd for two months, from 1.781 mbd to 1.681 mbd.
List of failures See also Dam failure List of power outages Hydraulic engineering Hydroelectricity List of significant thermal power station failures Operation Chastise Malpasset Dam St.
The WTI delivery price difference between months resulted in unusually high contango; purchasing cheap physical oil to storage for later sale.
Syria stopped all oil exports, rather than just embargoing specific countries, in order to avoid declaring specific nations as aggressors.
The 2006 Russia–Georgia energy crisis describes an international incident triggered by two explosions on the Mozdok–Tbilisi natural gas pipeline in North Ossetia on January 22, 2006.
In 2005, Duncan further extended the data set of his theory to 2003 in the article "The Olduvai Theory: Energy, Population, and Industrial Civilization." Description The Olduvai theory is a model that primarily draws from the peak oil theory and the per capita energy yield of oil.
A graphically enhanced version of the original game, Interstate '76: Gold Edition, was also released.
New Zealand would abandon the manufacturing of synthetic petrol in February 1997, allowing the plant to switch the focus to methanol..
Operated by Brunei Shell Petroleum (BSP), the Rasau Production Station is located within the area and is connected by pipelines to tank farms in Seria via Mumong, and to the Seria refinery through Kuala Belait.
In The Magic Goes Away, the widespread diminishing of magical power triggers a quest on the part of the most powerful of the magicians of the time to harness a new source of magic, the Moon.
The company was founded in 1983 by Pulitzer Prize winning author Daniel Yergin, James Rosenfield and Joseph Stanislaw.
Counteractions The most obvious solution to the issue of overconsumption is to simply slow the rate at which materials are becoming depleted.
For any future Net-zero compatible demand pathways, oil phase-out can therefore be done by first phasing out high–carbon-intensity oil, saving gigatons of CO₂ in addition to emission reductions coming from the decrease in oil demand.
Examples One example of cost-push inflation is the oil crisis of the 1970s, which some economists see as a major cause of the inflation experienced in the Western world in that decade.
During that time, California relied upon out-of-state generators to supply 7 to 11 gigawatts of power.
Movements and lifestyle choices related to stopping overconsumption include: anti-consumerism, freeganism, green economics, ecological economics, degrowth, frugality, downshifting, simple living, minimalism, the slow movement, and thrifting.
The impacts of the conflict are similar to the 1970s energy crisis, including acute supply shortages, currency volatility, inflation, and heightened risks of stagflation and recession.
The ammonia is used mainly as a nitrogen fertilizer as ammonia itself, in the form of ammonium nitrate, and as urea.
An overall climate target of 30% would apply to the total amount of expenditure from the NGEU in compliance with the Paris climate agreement.
The TN's website contains a listing of the initiatives that have registered, some of which are officially recognised.
Ukraine accumulated substantial debt amid the conflict, with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' restructuring of the national debt resulting in delayed government bond payments.
Remedies In order to diminish the impact of the crisis, three measures were suggested: buying natural gas from Bolivia, which has abundant reserves of it; directly buying electricity from Brazil, which generates a large part of it using hydroelectric power plants; and importing oil from Venezuela.
Amounts listed below, in billions of barrels, are the estimated ultimate recoverable petroleum resources (proved reserves plus cumulative production also abbreviated as URR), given historical production and current extraction technology.
North Carolina governor Pat McCrory, Tennessee governor Bill Haslam and South Carolina governor Nikki Haley all declared states of emergency, allowing fuel tankers to work longer hours to maintain the availability of gasoline.
In order to supply the Brunei LNG plant in Lumut, a US$79 million development of the Egret field was planned by the BSP in November 2001 and 2002.
Campbell believes OPEC countries raised their reserves to get higher oil quotas and to avoid internal critique.
blockade of Cuba, and that if serious problems in the Soviet Union led to a disruption of oil supplies, it would lead to a "special period in times of peace".
This is known as "System-X" and is now the standard Playmobil construction system, Steck-System having been retired except for special reissues.
Thompson, Robert & Wright, John (1985), Oil Property Evaluation (2nd ed.), Golden, Colorado: Thompson-Wright Associates
PRT is administered by the Energy Group of the Large Business Service of HM Revenue and Customs (formerly the Oil Taxation Office of Inland Revenue).
It goes well beyond issues of energy supply, to look at across-the-board creative adaptations in the realms of health, education, economy and much more.
Many stores were forced to close due to lack of power; the few that remained open completely ran out of most staple food items like bread, milk, and eggs.
Housing The cost of producing cement and the scarcity of tools and of building materials increased the pressure on already overcrowded housing.
In well managed under-capacity systems blackouts are planned and schedules are published in advance to allow people to work around them.
Perth's tallest building, Central Park, turned off its heating on 17 June, with General Manager Tim Ward saying, "We're not expecting anyone to be anything but compliant".
Western countries relied on the resources of countries in the Middle East and other parts of the world.
It has certainly been used in official traffic forecasting since the 1970s, for example in a UK Government study by Tulpule (1973) which forecast that car ownership would reach its maximum level by about 2010, with car use showing little further growth after that point.
They also coincided with sabotage on electricity lines just several miles from the pipeline, which descended large parts of Georgia into darkness.
The curve is the main component of Hubbert peak theory, which has led to the rise of peak oil concerns.
Many Cubans from outside Havana began migrating to Havana in search of tourism jobs which provided American dollars.
According to the IEA, approximately 4.1 billion barrels (650,000,000 m3) of oil are held in strategic reserves by the member countries, of which 1.4 billion barrels (220,000,000 m3) is government-controlled.
Investment incentives and macroeconomic ratios were heavily affected by the billions of dollars borrowed for the Think Big projects.
Economy Oil and gas Rasau is centred around the Rasau oil field, one of only two onshore oil fields in Brunei.
April 15—Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan—A little before 9:00 pm, a severe power cut blacked out up to 80% of Almaty and northern parts of Kyrgyzstan, affecting a few million people for several hours.
According to the Council of the European Union, the EU decided to ban coal imports from Russia in August 2022 and has denied 90% of Russian oil imports since September 2022.
The editors called Interstate '76 "more stylish and original [than Quake II], but it suffered a lack of good 3D support and an irritating save feature"; however, the game did receive the 1997 "Artistic Achievement" award.
Near release, it was confirmed that the game would not support cross-platform play, but the developers have stated that they are considering eventually moving the franchise towards becoming a Live Anywhere title.
This had an expected negative effect on the economy, because the leaves are essential to the local silk industry, and the fruit grown on these trees are the main source of income for many villagers.
PRT was abolished on 16 March 1993 for all fields given development consent on or after that date, but continues in existence for fields established before that date.
Some Arab countries encouraged the oil companies to circumvent the embargo, as the Amir of Kuwait even proposed to the US ambassador that companies simply alter shipping manifests to ship oil to prohibited countries.
Both accounts of inflation have at various times been put forward, with inconclusive evidence as to which explanation is superior.
1994 protest Thousands of Cubans protested in Havana on 5 August 1994, some chanting "Libertad!" ("Freedom!").
This is not, however, in agreement with peak oil, which is more on the extraction and production side.
National governments are compelled to compete and struggle with each other to provide employment, investments, tax revenues and wealth for their own populations.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
Iraq was the first country to limit its oil shipments, embargoing the United States and the United Kingdom on June 6.
The rest of the world The oil crisis of 1973 also had similarly large negative effects on other countries that relied heavily on imported oil, such as France, Sweden, Japan, Finland, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Denmark.
The Russian action resulted in the Moldovan government deciding the time had come to sever all connections to Russian energy sources and establish alternative supplies.
While blackout frequency has been shown to be reduced by operating it further from its critical point, it generally is not economically feasible, causing providers to increase the average load over time or upgrade less often resulting in the grid moving itself closer to its critical point.
Following similar measures in response to the GFC, a key goal of the packages is to ensure that actions to combat recession also combat climate change.
Together with high inflation (see Economy of Argentina) and the devaluation of the peso, many companies in the sector had to deal with high levels of debt in foreign currency under a scenario in which their revenues remained stable while their costs increased.
Codelco, Chile's state-owned copper corporation, confirmed that all of its mining operations throughout the country had been affected by the electrical failure.
In September 2024, CEO of Ukrainian state energy company Ukrenergo Volodymyr Kudrytskyi was dismissed by the Ministry of Energy, which in turn resulted in two Ukrenergo Supervisory Board members' resignations.
In November 2014, a group of students calling themselves the Harvard Climate Justice Coalition filed a lawsuit against the Harvard Corporation to compel divestment on the grounds of Harvard's status as a non-profit organization.
Large-scale implementation Modern ammonia plants produce more than 3000 tons per day in one production line.
On September 21, the states of North Carolina and Virginia declared their states of emergency over upon the news of the Colonial Pipeline's completion of the bypass.
The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) recognizes the potential opportunities that the growing biofuel market offers to small farmers and aquaculturers around the world and has recommended small-scale financing to help farmers in poor countries produce local biofuel.
Hubbert parabola This representation was proposed by Roberto Canogar and applied to the oil depletion problem.
Implications to peak oil Peak Oil derives from the Hubbert peak theory, which theorizes that production of any finite resource over time will have roughly inverse curves before and after the peak of the resource's production (creating an approximately bell shaped curve).
Oil ended January near the highest price since August 2025, with Brent finishing at $70.69 and WTI at $65.21, due to uncertainty about Iran.
Some hydroelectric power station failures may go beyond the immediate loss of generation capacity, including destruction of the turbine itself, reservoir breach and significant destruction of national grid infrastructure downstream.
Following the introduction of the Taurus, the use of downsizing through the Ford model line largely stopped.
He estimated it would take up to six weeks before the plant was operational, and said, "These units are old and not as environmentally friendly as new generators.
Thus, according to this theory, when the peak of production is passed, production rates enter an irreversible decline.
Methane has a boiling point of −161 °C, rather than hydrogen's -252.87 °C, making methane a much easier fuel to condense.
Allegations of media suppression As of mid-January 2008, the state-run media did not discuss the problem.
A traditional oil well's rate of decline is shallow, & exhibits a slow, predictable rate of decline as the reservoir is drawn down (Drinking of Milkshake).
In 2015, most countries signed the Paris Agreement committing to limit global carbon emissions to prevent temperature rises by over 2 °C, with an ambition to limit temperature rise to 1.5 °C.
Though not classified as contingent, some technical, contractual, or regulatory uncertainties preclude such reserves being classified as Proven.
This includes the assets of oil companies." Invitees included Egypt, Syria, Kuwait, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Bahrain, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar.
Bardi's book looked at cases of rapid decline across societies (including the fall of empires, financial crises, and major famines), in nature (including avalanches), and through man-made systems (including cracks in metal objects).
Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
In the United Kingdom, the crash ended after the rent freeze was lifted on 19 December 1974, allowing a readjustment of property prices; over the following year, stock prices rose by 150%.
On November 6, the government declared an emergency in the power sector, which was expected to "allow the Finance Ministry to seek to guarantee fuel imports for thermoelectric plants".
The next week was the third down week for both Brent, down nearly 5 percent to $83.63, and WTI, finishing almost 5 percent lower at $76.28.
For unconventional oil to fill the gap without "potentially serious impacts on the global economy", oil production would have to remain stable after its peak, until 2035 at the earliest.
WTI finished the first week of February up 8.9 percent to $56.85 and Brent was up 7.8 percent to $59.34, the highest since January 2020 for both.
The most seriously affected regions were the capital, certain regions of the province of Buenos Aires, and the province of La Pampa.
The time to reach this break-even point is called energy payback period (EPP) or energy payback time (EPBT).
Heating District heating systems which supply several apartment blocks are vulnerable because of their centralisation.
The glut began in the early 1980s as a result of slowed economic activity in industrial countries (due to the 1973 and 1979 energy crises) and the energy conservation spurred by high fuel prices.
Lester Brown of the Earth Policy Institute, has said: "It would take 1.5 Earths to sustain our present level of consumption.
It was also published as a folio game (packaged in a double LP-sized cardstock folder, and as a boxed set.
This means that the marginal tax rate on PRT paying fields is now 81% (fields not paying PRT pay a rate of 62%).
Food and water shortages Water service was disrupted for more than 12 million people due to pipes freezing and bursting.
Kirk Sorensen and others have suggested that additional nuclear power plants, particularly liquid fluoride thorium reactors have the energy density to mitigate global warming and replace the energy from peak oil, peak coal and peak gas.
May: Fifty percent of Saudi Arabia's 10 Mbbl/d (1,600,000 m3/d) production is halted briefly due to fire damage to separation facility in Abqaiq field.
Governor Abbott said "everything that needed to be done was done to fix the power grid in Texas" when he signed the bill.
This would have the effect of keeping world prices reasonable without price shocks and let Third World countries afford their oil imports.
However, on 15 December 2022, the Public Works Department (JKR) announced the demolition of the Rasau Bridge Toll building.
This was initially caused by the country's demand for electricity outstripping supply, and as time progressed, later exacerbated by ageing power infrastructure, poor maintenance, and the slow completion of new power stations.
Requiring users of parking to pay the costs directly, as opposed to sharing the costs indirectly with others through increased rents and tax subsidies.
Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration (EIA) states that historic Canadian Tar Sand production rose from 200,000 barrels per day (32,000 m3/d) in 1980 to 1,100,000 barrels per day (170,000 m3/d) in 2004.
Moreover, wholesale prices of natural gas spiked nationwide, rising from around $2 per one million British thermal units (290 kilowatt-hours) at the beginning of 1999 to over $10 per million BTU in the winter of 2000-2001.
Analysts such as Newman as well as views expressed in the journal edited by Melia entitled World Transport Policy and Practice point to various interrelated causes.
Saudi Arabia plans to decrease crude oil output by 500,000 bbl/d (79,000 m3/d) starting on January 1, 2005.
Eventually, the Earth stops spinning altogether and its position becomes fixed with respect to the background stars, and as a result still experiences a day-night cycle synonymous with an entire year.
In The Magic May Return, it is discovered that mana was originally carried to Earth and the other bodies of the Solar System on the solar wind, which replenishes mana slowly over time.
While Kampong Rasau itself is small, it benefits from local amenities such as a primary school, multi-purpose hall, clinic, and mosque.
Oil sands are unconsolidated sandstone deposits containing large amounts of very viscous crude bitumen or extra-heavy crude oil that can be recovered by surface mining or by in-situ oil wells using steam injection or other techniques.
Abiogenic hypotheses generally reject the supposition that certain molecules found within petroleum, known as biomarkers, are indicative of the biological origin of petroleum.
Over the last century, many predictions of peak oil timing have been made, often later proven incorrect due to increased extraction rates.
The RMI chairman, Brian Madderson, warning of a repeat of the previous week's fuel panic if talks failed.
In the event of a major disruption to refinery operations, the United States would have to call on members of the International Energy Agency that stockpile refined products, and use refining capacities outside of the continental United States for relief.
Many imported brands utilized fuel-saving technologies such as fuel injection and multi-valve engines over the common use of carburetors.
The five Playmobil toys that were to be included in the promotion were a Sheriff, an Indian, a Sheriff's Horse, an Umbrella Girl and a Farmer.
French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said that France negotiated with the United Arab Emirates to replace some Russian oil imports.
The risk that the Middle East could become another superpower confrontation with the USSR was of more concern to Washington than oil.
For example, if steel is being used to drill for oil or construct a nuclear power plant, should the energy input of the steel be taken into account?
Hubbert's peak was thought to have been achieved in the United States contiguous 48 states (that is, excluding Alaska and Hawaii) in the early 1970s.
India's oil imports are expected to more than triple from 2005 levels by 2020, rising to 5 million barrels per day (790×10^3 m3/d).
However some power stations can be exceptionally large in respect to connected grid capacity so that any failure for these proportionally large stations can be more problematic than the failure of a typically sized station.
That same year, construction began on drilling platforms offshore from Seria, marking the field's early expansion into marine-based operations.
The National Cabinet Minister Allan Highet coined the "Think Big" label in a speech to a National Party conference in 1977.
Dushanbe residents reported wearing several jackets and overcoats to sleep and all family members sleeping under a single blanket to share warmth.
As of 2024 global use of fossil fuels is increasing, continuing the trend since 1965, if not earlier.
Other reviews and commentary American Wargamer #2 Battleplan #9 Campaign #79 Fire & Movement #69 JagdPanther #11 & #15 Outposts #8 Panzerschreck #7 == References ==
Easing measures In 2011 the British Government published guidance for energy emergency planning and priority fuel allocation, listing 10 schemes which could be implemented in the event of a fuel supply or demand issue.
On 29 November, during the baseball game between the Navegantes del Magallanes and the Águilas del Zulia at the Estadio Luis Aparicio El Grande, the electricity went out from 7:45 p.m.
He did not make a distinction between "conventional" and "non-conventional" oil produced by fracturing, aka tight oil, which has continued further growth in oil production.
He concludes that government effort must be concentrated on sustainable development, because relatively minor improvements, for example, technology transfer to Third World countries, will not solve the underlying problem of an unsustainable economy.
that Firepower made [on the packaging] in support of the fuel saving and emission reducing properties of the Firepower Pill".
However, as of 2017, coal supplied over a quarter of the world's primary energy and about 40% of the greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels.
military has shut off an oil pipeline from Iraq to Syria that is alleged to have been carrying 100,000-150,000 barrels (24,000 m3) per day.
Taking this into account, a peak oil shock as outlined by Hirsch will have a much more severe outcome in the US compared to other parts of the world, especially Europe.
The pre-1974 recession level of 4.6% unemployment was not reached again until November 1997, when the Federal Reserve deviated from its prior policy.
He characterized the peak oil theory as part of a series of "recurring oil panics" that have "driven Western political circles toward oil imperialism and attempts to assert direct or indirect control over oil-producing regions".
ISSN 0126-6187 – via ResearchGate.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of September 2025 (link) Silvestre, G.; Matdanan, H.J.H.; Sharifuddin, P.H.Y.; De Silva, M.W.R.N.; Chua, T.-E., eds.
He appoints Senator Pete Bridgeport as his new vice president, as an incentive to protect the administration from congressional hearings on the military misadventure that had ruined the country.
The Chinese retaliate by launching a surprise airborne attack on the American base at Diego Garcia, taking control of the island.
For all its merits, Daly himself points to the existence of physical, technological and practical limitations to how much efficiency and recycling can be achieved by this proposed system.
The Nepal Oil Corporation also reported that trucks it had sent into India to retrieve fuel had only partially been supplied by Indian counterparts.
See also Hubbert peak theory Oil exploration Oil reserves Reserves-to-production ratio References Lewis, J.
The term overconsumption is quite controversial and does not necessarily have a single unifying definition.
Lobby fees paid by Arab governments to individual firms "commonly" reach levels of $50,000 and above.
A sacred fire is usually kept separate from any cooking fire, and may be placed in or near a ceremonial enclosure.
(3 October 1913 – 21 June 1998), Archbishop of Turin, declared as a Servant of God in 2014 Paul Zoungrana, M.Afr.
The term is sometimes used to refer to a person who guides people through religious sites, such as churches, and explains the various artifacts.
The name "Rishi" (pronounced "ruesi") is also the basis of one of the letters of the Thai alphabet, so reu-si (Thai: ษ ฤๅษี).
The ceremony is often very draining for the yuwipi man because of the focus needed to interact with the spirits and because the spirits use his life energy to heal the participants.
It is used in Hindustani classical music to recognize master performers for classical singing and other performing arts, like classical dance.
Their rituals often involve "martial" elements, such as the use of the sundang (wavy-edged machete) in trance dances to ward off rival sorcerers or malevolent spirits.
This is true of man in general and the [Vedic] Keśin in particular, but the latter has mastered and transformed these contrary forces and is a visible embodiment of accomplished spirituality.
The Vidhana which he wrote helped simplify the rites and rituals written in the Shrauta and Gruhya shastras (scriptures).
The structure of Russian- and south-eastern European muftiates were never prescribed by Islamic doctrine, but instead are based on the principle of an all-encompassing legal and administrative order in parallel fashion to Christian dioceses with the purpose of regulating the Islamic religion.
Gossain, Gosain, Gosine, Gosyne, Gosein, or Gossai is a Hindi word derived from Sanskrit: गोस्वामी, romanized: gōsvāmī, lit.
These can be treated by skilled shamans, but were more often relegated to apprentices or assistants specializing in healing or herbalism.
Pastoral care occurs in various contexts, including congregations, hospital chaplaincy, prison chaplaincy, psychiatry, crisis intervention, telephone helplines, counseling centers, senior care facilities, disability work, hospices, end-of-life care, grief support, and more.
See also Glossary of Islam Imam Marabout Mawlawi Mullah Marja Sheikh Rumi, Persian poet also known as Mawlana == References ==
The Museum of Army Chaplaincy holds archive material and information relating to the history of the Chaplains General to the British Army both past and present.
In the past before matches and easy ways of making fire under wet conditions, it was necessary for someone to always be present to keep the flames or red coals burning for long periods of time.
A medicine man or medicine woman is a traditional healer and spiritual leader who serves a community of Indigenous people of the Americas.
Mandaeism In Mandaeism, novices who are being initiated into the Mandaean priesthood are called šualia (Classical Mandaic: ࡔࡅࡀࡋࡉࡀ).
Thailand In Thailand, a country which never had a tradition of fully ordained nuns (bhikkhuni), there developed a separate order of non-ordained female renunciates called mae chi.
The Hebrew Bible (or Old Testament) uses the Hebrew word רעה (roʿeh), which is used as a noun as in 'shepherd', and as a verb as in 'to tend a flock'.
See also Archipheracite, another past title in synagogues References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; et al., eds.
Though they manage the paperwork and office (called the "chancery"), they have no actual jurisdictional authority: the bishop of the diocese exercises decision-making authority through his judicial vicar, in judicial matters, and the vicar general for administrative matters.
Before the office was dissolved, it has been criticised from opposition groups who viewed the mufti's alignment with the government as compromising religious independence.
Full text collections of Reform responsa are available on the website of the Central Conference of American Rabbis.
In the 19th century, the Austrian Habsburgs and Russians expanded into southeastern Europe, carving territory out of the Ottoman Empire and helping establish newly independent countries.
Their purpose is to offer religious church services, counseling, and moral support to the armed forces, whether in peacetime or at war.
Examples are Nagarjuna [Skt.]: Na ga’i dzu na/Klu sgrub; Aryadeva (Karnaripa) [Skt.]: Ka na ri pa/’Phags pa lha; and Ghantapa [Skt.]: Ghanda pa/rDo rje dril bu pa, to name a few.
Twelver and Ismaili Shi'a believe that these imams are chosen by God to be perfect examples for the faithful and to lead all humanity in all aspects of life.
When the monks fled to their monastery in Kells, following the 9th-century Viking raids on Iona, their abbot continued to hold the title of coarb to reflect his direct inheritance: many of the early abbots were members of Columba's family.
Eastern Orthodoxy In the Eastern Orthodox Church, a candidate may be clothed as a novice (Slavonic: послушник, poslushnik, literally "one under obedience") by the hegumen (abbot) or hegumenia (abbess) after at least three days in the monastery.
The Ottoman Empire had a similar territorial division called a kadiluk, which was more concerned with justice and taxation than religion.
Ancient Rome There were four chief colleges of priests in ancient Rome, the most illustrious of which was that of the pontifices.
Concordance lists For the identification of individual mahasiddhas the concordance lists published by Ulrich von Schroeder are useful tools for every scholar.
Buddhism All Buddhist traditions have nuns, although their status is different among Buddhist countries.
Capable men who would lead well were preferred over an ineffectual direct heir, as there was no basis in the majority Sunni view that the head of state or governor should be chosen based on lineage alone.
In Burmese Buddhism, several honorific terms exist for Buddhist monks, reflecting their achievements and how many vassas they have passed.
Chökyi Nyinche According to Fabrice Midal, the tenth Trungpa tulku rejected his role as fundraiser for the Surmang monasteries and preferred to live as a disciplined meditation practitioner.
The Mahābhārata list explicitly refers to the saptarshis of the first manvantara and not to those of the present manvantara.
Yuwipi Ceremony Spirits The spirits called upon vary with individual medicine men, as well with the goals of the ceremony.
Researchers have further categorized contemporary miko in terms of their diverse traditions and practices.
James Mooney's writings concerning the Ani-Kutani From the writings of James Mooney, Myths of the Cherokee, section 108 "The Massacre of the Ani'-Kuta'ni.
The term qäsis (Ge'ez: ቀሲስ, Amharic: ቄስ qes; Tigrinya: ቀሺ qäši), which refers to married priest in the Ethiopian and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Churches, is a synonym for kahen, an unmarried priest, among the Beta Israel.
At present, the most prominent among them is Ali al-Sistani; who also serves as the head of the Hawza of Najaf.
The rosh yeshiva is required to have a comprehensive knowledge of the Talmud and the ability to analyse and present new perspectives, called chidushim (novellae) verbally and often in print.
God's Wife of Amun – the highest-ranking priestess of the Amun cult Ancient Israel The High Priest of Israel served in the Tabernacle, then in Solomon's Temple and the Second Temple in Jerusalem.
Temple boys may undertake the formal step of sāmaṇera ordination as part of their role, depending on their age and local custom.
surrogare, to substitute for), is the deputy of a bishop or an ecclesiastical judge, acting in the absence of his principal and strictly bound by the authority of the latter.
Most congregations or places of worship have a strict vetting process for their youth ministers, including but not limited to background checks, educational requirements and previous relevant experience.
In Iran, until the early 20th century, the term mullah was used in Iranian seminaries to refer to low-level clergy who specialized in telling stories of Ashura, rather than teaching or issuing fatwas.
The temple of Ourania, which was one dedicated to Aphrodite, was the place in which Aphrodite would be intimate with her sacred prostitutes.
By the constitution Inter cetera of 20 January 1521, Pope Leo X appointed a rule for tertiaries with simple vows.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Tarachand K.C., Devadasi Custom – Rural Social Structure and Flesh Markets, New Delhi: Reliance Publishing House, 1992.
Swami ([sʋaːmiː]; Sanskrit: स्वामी, romanized: svāmī; sometimes abbreviated sw.) in Hinduism is an honorific title given to an ascetic who has chosen the path of renunciation (sanyāsa).
The Asvalayana sutra indicates that a non-dvija child may also be inducted into the Dvija category, if he wishes to pursue the duties associated with these varnas.
The Society of Jesus is an example of an institute that obtained recognition as a religious order with solemn vows, although the members were divided into the professed with solemn vows (a minority) and the "coadjutors" with simple vows.
Brothers share equal status and rights with seminarians and priests in their communities with the exception that canon law currently requires that mixed communities elect an ordained minister as provincial; however, some dispensations to this rule have been granted.
Today kohanim retain a lesser though somewhat distinct status within Judaism, and are bound by additional restrictions according to Orthodox Judaism.
After the death of Ibn Baz in 1999, King Fahd appointed Abdulaziz Al-Sheikh, a member of the Al-Sheikh family, who served as Grand Mufti from 1999 until his death on 23 September 2025.
By the eve of World War I, the Ottoman state, despite its weakness relative to Europe, represented the largest and most powerful independent Islamic political entity.
Orthodoxy The priesthood obligations of Orthodox clergymen are outlined by John Chrysostom (347–407) in his treatise On the Priesthood (De Sacerdotio).
Initiations or ritual empowerments are necessary before the student is permitted to practice a particular tantra, in Vajrayana Buddhist sects found in Tibet and South Asia.
After the dissolution the Ottoman Empire the office of the Grand Mufti has been adopted in a number of countries across the Muslim world, often serving the role of providing religious support for government policies.
Also in the 1930s, the minister Norman Vincent Peale and the psychiatrist Smiley Blanton collaborated to form the American Foundation of Religion and Psychiatry, now known as the Blanton-Peale Institute.
In Sikhism, the scripture Adi Granth is considered to be last Guru hence the book is worshiped as like human Guru.
In 1963, the American Association of Pastoral Counselors was founded to provide professional certification for pastoral counselors and pastoral counseling centers.
He later went on to chair the Hurd Commission which produced a review of the roles and functions of the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Joachim Herrmann and Evamaria Engel, on the other hand, recognized that priests influenced political decisions with the help of oracles and their authority.
It literally means "precious one", and may refer to a person, place, or thing—like the words "gem" or "jewel" (Sanskrit: Ratna).
The Upanishads assert that one's birth does not determine one's eligibility for spiritual knowledge, only one's effort and sincerity matters.
The word is a combination of Sanskrit word "acharya" (teacher) and the Burmese honorific "taw," which is used to denote nouns of religious or royal significance.
Latin Church In the Roman rite, the senior Cardinal Deacon is the Cardinal Protodeacon of the Holy Roman Church.
Unlike many other Islamic leadership positions, the Aga Khan's authority combines religious interpretation with significant involvement in education, healthcare, cultural preservation, and economic development.
Itako perform the ceremony using Tsugaru dialect, and a series of "taboo words" that are not understood by all native Japanese speakers.
Buddhism Christianity Eastern Orthodox The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Protestantism Note: due to the wide variety of Protestant practices there is not a standard form of address.
1305) was followed first by a Duoerjibale (Dorje Pal) in 1305–13, and then Sangjiayizhashi (Sanggye Tashi) in 1313–14.
About 1000 years after the era of Solomon and David, another widely known intervention occurred known as "The spiritual intervention of Hanina ben Dosa and Rabbi Abaye" which ended up curbing her malevolent powers over humans.
Traditional training The position of a shaman passed from generation to generation, but sometimes someone not directly descended from a shaman went voluntarily into training or was appointed by the village chieftains.
See also Akhund Abdul Ghaffur Clericalism in Iran Turban knocking Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists Kyai, similar term in Indonesia Ulama Seghatoleslam References Further reading Gibb, H.
An archipheracite was a minister of Jewish synagogues, who were charged with reading and interpreting the perakim (chapters), where the titles and chapters of the law and the prophets are found.
According to Jianping Wang, "In the Sufi doctrine found in E[ast] Turkestan, the ishan has a serene nature, acting as an intermediary between Muslims and Allah.
References Sources "Descriptio Lapponiae", Nicolaus Lundius Lappo (1905) Suomen sanojen alkuperä, Finnish Literature Society (2000)
Gonagas possessed a special level of spiritual knowledge and claimed to have the ability to transform into a bird figure to "fly" over mountains.
Greek muftiates Office of the Grand Mufti of India (Barelvism) Office of the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Kazakh muftiates Kosovar muftiates Kyrgyz muftiates Lithuanian muftiates Macedonian muftiates Malaysia Malaysia has a unique system of collective mufti.
Although Reform stresses the individual autonomy of its membership, it never completely abandoned the field of responsa literature, if only to counter its rivals' demands.
Conversely, some fundamentalist Protestants (including Alexander Hislop and Charles Chiniquy) have used the term to refer to the papacy and the members of the Roman Curia.
Notable shaykha include the 10th-century Shaykhah Fakhr-un-Nisa Shuhdah and 18th-century scholar Al-Shaykha Fatima al-Fudayliyya.
A Drumkeeper is a common name for someone in an Indigenous community who has inherited a traditional sacred drum and the right to play it in ceremony, or been instructed by their Elders in how to make and play one in order to fulfill this role.
In the Indian subcontinent, the word mantrik & similar names are synonymous with magician in different languages.
Chaplains do not hold a standard military rank, and are usually addressed as Padre, Reverend, or, more informally, Bish.
The hogon may conduct rituals in the Sanctuaire de Binou, a special building the door of which is blocked with rocks.
Sometimes these mystagogical instructions were not given until after the catechumen had been baptized.
Traditionally, they were thought to be able to manipulate fate on their or their followers' behalf and they could grant miracles or inflict divine punishment on people in the afterlife or the mortal world.
Early Native American tribes around the Great Lakes region, taught that the mystagogue was a spiritual leader, and upon death would transform into a beast with many heads.
The term is widely used in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India, and is also used for a man who has higher education in Islamic theology and sharia law.
Pliny reports that Mark Antony's soldiers smashed an enormous statue of the divinity made of solid gold and then divided the pieces amongst themselves.
Education To become a Shinto priest, a novice must study at a university approved by the Association of Shinto Shrines, typically Tokyo's Kokugakuin University or Ise's Kogakkan University, or pass an exam that will certify their qualifications.
The erenagh originally had a tonsure but took no other holy orders; he had a voice in the Chapter when they consulted about revenues, paid a yearly rent to the Bishop and a fine on the marriage of each daughter.
History Tenure of Montazeri (1985–1989) The Assembly of Experts elected Hussein-Ali Montazeri, one of Khomeini's students, to this position on 15 July 1985.
In Cameron’s opinion there is no distinction between the men’s wise sayings and that of Amma Sarah and Amma Syncletia.
The process of recognition must also be taken into account: it is probable that the wu was chosen or acknowledged as such according to different criteria to those adopted for the king.
Soviet-era muftiates Ukrainian muftiates Uzbek muftiates See also Muftiate Grand Mufti Mufti == References ==
Shaunaka (Sanskrit: शौनक, IAST: śaunaka) is the name applied to teachers, and to a Shakha of the Atharvaveda.
Mashgichim play social as well as technical roles in explaining kosher rules to the Jewish and non-Jewish community and forging close relationships with employees and customers.
Function At the beginning chaplain and Caudatario of a cardinal were two distinct figures, but then they merged into one.
Himmat Singh, one of the original Panj Piare of Sikhism was believed to be his reincarnation (avtar).
In Afghanistan, and among the Pashtuns of the Afghan-Pakistan border region, the term is still current in its original sense as an honorific.
History The earliest organization of the Church in Jerusalem was according to most scholars similar to that of Jewish synagogues, but it had a council or college of ordained presbyters (Greek: πρεσβύτεροι elders).
Most recently, the Gyalwang Drukpa visited the CERN in Switzerland with several of his kung fu nuns to discuss the seeming tension of religion and science in society, as well as the improvement of gender equality.
Abba Saul ben Batnit, in his attack against the priestly house of Ishmael ben Fabus, said: "They themselves are high priests, and their sons gizbarim, and their sons-in-law amarkolim".
Seven Inanimate Jewels (Eka-indriya) Chakra-ratna: A miraculous diamond-serrated discus that never misses its target; it precedes the monarch’s army during his world-conquering expedition (digvijaya).
See also Christianity in the United States#Youth programs Sunday school Youth program References External links OhMyBible – Free interactive Bible study app with interactive chapters, contextual notes, multi-voice video Bible, and guided prayer talks.
At the national level, a Fatwa Committee of the National Council for Islamic Religious Affairs (Majlis Fatwa Kebangsaan) has been formed under the Department of Islamic Advancement of Malaysia (Jabatan Kemajuan Islam Malaysia or JAKIM).
Ifá is a divination system that represents the teachings of the òrìṣà Ọrunmila, the òrìṣà of wisdom, who in turn serves as the oracular representative of Olodumare.
Derived from the root "yat," meaning "to strive" or "to make an effort," Yati traditionally refers to one who is disciplined, dedicated, and often associated with ascetics or sages (tapasvis) who have renounced worldly attachments in pursuit of higher spiritual goals.
[it is] an opportunity to serve." The church uses a lay clergy, with most members receiving no compensation for the execution of their callings.
Swedish priests supported conviction of noaidis for sorcery, and in 1693, Lars Nilsson was executed for this charge.
A rajarshi still performs the duties of their kshatriya class, and remain similar to most rishis, maharishis, and brahmarishis descendants in their level of spiritual knowledge.
Bhagat is a term used in the Indian subcontinent to describe religious figures who have obtained high acclaim in their communities for their acts and devotion.
They stated that paying chaplains to conduct prayer services was an unconstitutional act of governmental support for a religion.
Catholic young people Unlike the case in some Protestant churches, a youth minister in the Roman Catholic Church is not a member of the clergy.
External links The 84 Indian Adepts of Abhayadatta System Mahasiddha: Buddhist Tantric Teachers of India
Nine of the fourteen Malaysian states have their own sultan; each of these nine states have their own mufti who usually controls the Islamic Council or Islamic Department of the state.
One of the best orators of Bangladesh, Maulana Delwar Hossain Sayeedi, is addressed as Allama Sayeedi.
The novice master's duty is to see that the time devoted to the period of the novitiate be passed in prayer, meditation, and the development of character through a study of the life of Jesus Christ and the saints, church history, the vows and the constitution of the institute.
They also often teach in Islamic schools known in Iran as hawzas and in other countries as madrasas.
In some orders, like the Benedictines, a monastery remains a priory until it is considered stable enough and large enough to be elevated to the rank of an abbey.
Lay brothers were originally created to allow those who were skilled in particular crafts or did not have the required education to study for holy orders to participate in and contribute to the life of a religious order.
After the Reformation and the Dissolution of the Monasteries the role of erenagh became subsumed in the responsibilities of the parson in each parish.
See also Maggid Moshe ha-Darshan References Further reading Marc Saperstein (1992), Jewish Preaching, 1200-1800: An Anthology, yale university press.
History See also Pandit Purohit Yogi Bairagi References External links Media related to Pujari at Wikimedia Commons
A muhtasibat is an Islamic territorial division overseen by a muhtasib and is directly subordinate to a qadi and qadiyat.
During the Avignon Papacy, the use of a caudatario spread among the minor prelates, such as the archbishops and bishops.
When she was twenty, she and her husband Pinianus renounced the world, both founding convents and monasteries.
These ceremonial drums can include water drums, hand drums, and larger drums used during ceremonies such as Sun Dances and sweatlodges.
Psychological aspects of relationship The relation of Guru and Shishya is equated with that of a child in the womb of mother.
Some believe that remainder, or even all, of the claims of martyred apostles do not rely upon historical or biblical evidence, but only on late legends.
Titles used only by Shia Muslims Ayatollah Ayatollah (Arabic: آية الله; Persian: آیت‌الله) is a prestigious title given to major Shia clergymen.
Kamehameha I had earlier believed that Christianity may bring mana or heavenly power to revitalise the Hawaiian community.
Lay brothers were distinguished from choir monks or friars in that they did not pray in choir, and from clerics, in that they did not prepare for holy orders.
Some officiants work within congregations in some denominations and for specified ceremonies (e.g., funerals) as non-ordained members on the clergy team.
The archipheracite was not the same as the archisynagogus, as Grotius and other have mistakenly believed, but rather the chief or principal of these appointed to read, explain, and profess the law in their schools.
History Canon 128 of the 1603 canons of the Church of England lays down the qualifications necessary for the office of surrogate, and canon 123 specifies the regulations for appointment to the office.
Implications Dvija, in medieval Indian texts, refers to a member of the first three varnas – Brahmins, Kshatriyas, and Vaishyas.
According to Guthrie, dunchees are the "heirs of an ancient form of female asceticism that was once accorded high status in Cambodia".
Hidden from the eyes of men, the life of the hermit is a silent preaching of the Lord, to whom he has surrendered his life simply because he is everything to him.
Female members of the mendicant orders (Dominican, Augustinian and Carmelite nuns and Poor Clares) continued to observe the same enclosed life as members of the monastic orders.
The Rule of St Benedict is followed by a variety of orders of monastics in the West, including the Order of Saint Benedict, Cistercians, Trappists, and Camaldolese, and is an important influence in Carthusian life.
Imperial Britain saw great possibilities in having under their control and patronage the head of a major Shia sect; it could even be used at some later stage to counterbalance the influence of the Ottoman Caliph, the head of Islam as recognized by the Sunni sects.
Once they returned from the journey, the angakkuq would question people involved in the situation, and, under the belief that they already knew who was responsible, the people being questioned would often confess.
Dispute over Marja al-taqlid al-mutlaq In the early 1990s, the leading marja', Abu al-Qasim al-Khoei, died and Ali Sistani, "emerged" as the marja al-mutlaq or highest Marja' in the world of Shia Islam.
The Unitarian & Free Christian Churches of Great Britain have Accredited Lay Preachers who take services including rites of passage.
The prevalence of these works in pop culture has influenced definitions in English dictionaries, such as Merriam-Webster, which not only defines kahuna as "a preeminent person or thing" but also offers "Hawaiian shaman" as a secondary definition.
A rigid class system emerged from this arrangement in which the clerics (priests and seminarians) exercised complete control over the lay brothers.
Notable Chaplains Since the American Civil War, seven Army chaplains and one chaplain assistant have been awarded the Medal of Honor.
James Mallinson, one of the few westerners to be named as a mahant, describes the position of a mahant as a combination of an abbot and a brigadier.
In Thailand, the terms luuk sit wat (ลูกศิษย์วัด) and dek wat (เด็กวัด), commonly rendered into English as "temple boy", are typically used.
In modern Philippine society, their roles have largely been taken over by folk healers, which are now predominantly male, while some are still being falsely accused as "witches".
From 1938 to 1972, Lichtenstein led the Society of Jewish Science, a Jewish spiritual movement originally led by Rabbi Alfred G.
Among other proofs, they cited another response from Isaac ben Sheshet himself ruling that a kohen who married a divorcee must cease his marriage, proving that Isaac ben Sheshet fundamentally upheld the legitimacy of the presumptive kohen.
The text describes the monk as a Jivanmukta, a liberated soul while alive, and Videhamukta is liberation in afterlife.
ISBN 978-0300052633 Marc Saperstein (2014), Your Voice Like a Ram's Horn: Themes and Texts in Traditional Jewish Preaching, Hebrew Union College Press.
Sound imitation may serve other purposes such as games and other entertainment as well as important practical purposes such as luring animals during hunts.
This may be evidence for the existence of sacred prostitution in Mesoamerica, or it may be either confusion, or accusational polemic.
A hegumen may carry his pastoral staff in processions and when giving blessings in the church (though it is never carried into the sanctuary), although it usually stands upright next to his kathisma (monastic choir stall).
Gallery Federal Republic of Germany German religious constitutional law and its state-church law is involved in the democratic national identity of modern Germany, especially in various articles of the German Constitution.
Addressing a crowd As part of the school of Rabbi Yismael's explanation, the Mitzvah includes sanctifying the Kohen with the first slot in delivering Torah instruction from amongst other Jews who are on the/a panel of speakers.
An ishan has leadership over his group, and can nominate his khalifa and hafiz as well as initiating maulid and buwi into the sub-order.
Religious Zionist and Modern Orthodox rabbinical students, such as those at the Hesder yeshivas and Yeshiva University, respectively, also formally study hashkafa (i.e., the major elements of Jewish philosophy and theology) and its application to contemporary questions.
Hinduism Other titles for the word Mahant, serving in the context of a well known religious place, include priest or pundit—generally always being a gyani or pastor.
The scholaster might be a dignitary in a cathedral or collegiate chapter, alongside the provost, dean, cantor, succentor, precentor, archdeacon, treasurer, cellarer, sacristan or almoner.
Depending on the size of the school and the status of the institution to which it was attached, the scholaster might be the only teacher, the head of a considerable educational establishment, or have oversight over all the schools in their city or territory.
12th century – 11th century BCE), who fished without a hook while waiting to be recognized by the ruler.
In many cases, the women that take to the life of renunciation are widows, and these types of sadhvis often live secluded lives in ascetic compounds.
They play a crucial role in preserving and transmitting the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism, particularly those related to tantric practices.
Non-Orthodox Judaism allows women to be mohalot (מוֹהֲלוֹת‎, plural of מוֹהֶלֶת‎, 'mohelet', feminine of mohel), without restriction.
A number of prominent Armenian Christian authors are grouped together under the name t’argmanich’ vardapetk’ 'translator vardapets': Mesrop Mashtots, Elishe, Movses Khorenatsi, David the Invincible, Gregory of Narek, Nerses the Gracious, John of Odzun, John of Orotan, and Gregory of Tatev.
{{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) External links List of All Digamber Jain Monks With detailed description Photo documentary of the Jain monks
Bangladesh In Bangladesh, in the government Aliyah Madrasa system, Maulvi/Moulvi is also associated with formal degrees for those who have passed the course of Maulvi (basic), Maulvi Aalim (intermediate) or Maulvi Fazil (advanced).
The word ultimately derives from a Germanic word for "king" (Compare to Finnish Kuningas and Lithuanian Kunigas, both from Proto-Germanic *Kuningaz; in archaic context the Finnish word simply had the meaning of "leader" or "high-ranked person" instead of monarch).
A scholaster, from the Latin scholasticus (schoolmaster), or magister scholarum, was the head of an ecclesiastical school, typically a cathedral school, monastic school, or the school of a collegiate church, in medieval and early-modern Europe.
From the Jerusalem Talmud, it further appears that in cases of necessity the archisynagogue of a community had to act as its reader.
The concept of Chakravartin may have developed by the time of the early Maurya kings, in the 4th to 3rd century BCE, such as Emperor Ashoka, and it is mentioned in the Arthashastra (formerly considered to be a Maurya-period text but now re-dated as later).
(1991), Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-504652-6 STRONGS NT 1481: ἐθνάρχης.
The historian Sarah Ansari wrote: In his newspaper, the Pir-jo-Goth Gazette, he (Pir of Pagaro) called for Hindu-Muslim unity: 'My forefathers', he wrote, 'treated Hindus and Muslims alike as a sacred trust.
Catholic Church norms for the consecrated eremitic and anchoritic life do not include corporal works of mercy.
Ndiaye, Ousmane Sémou, "Diversité et unicité sérères: l'exemple de la région de Thiès." Éthiopiques (1991).
Typically, general authorities are given the sealing power, while general officers and area seventies are not.
The Nenets rank their shamans by their spiritual attachment and function as well as their experience.
Although this is a fairly common occurrence, there are no hard and fast rules about such practices and each president is free to choose the counselors he prefers.
'a man of prayer'; and from the Anglo-Saxon bed), was generally a pensioner or almsman whose duty was to pray for his benefactor.
The pressure began in Oyotunji after Iyanifa Ifafunmike Osunbunmi was initiated in Osogbo, Nigeria, in 1995 by the Babalawo Ifayemi Elebuibon, the Araba of Osogbo.
A coarb, from the Old Irish comarbae (Modern Irish: comharba, Latin: hērēs), meaning "heir" or "successor", was a distinctive office of the medieval Celtic Church among the Gaels of Ireland and Scotland.
Bhaṭṭārakas, who head institutions, are technically junior monks, and thus permitted to stay in the same place.
Similar to an abbot visitor, the archimandrite would visit the monasteries under his charge to see that the monks were keeping a serious religious life, to draw attention to abuses, straighten out difficulties and give confidence and encouragement to all those who needed it.
See also Royal Army Chaplains' Department (RAChD) (U.K.) Royal Canadian Chaplain Service Chiefs of Chaplains of the United States International Military Chiefs of Chaplains Conference Military chaplain#Military chaplains by country References External links Crockford's Clerical Directory – Chapl Gen
He said that the temple of Aphrodite once had acquired more than a thousand prostitutes, donated by both men and women to the service of the Goddess.
Many mohalim continue the practice of listing the names and birthdates of the boys they circumcise in little booklets.
Slaves and persons who were blind or mute were likewise theoretically barred from the post of a judge, but not that of mufti.
If the male desert monastics are called "patres", why not apply its feminine equivalent "matres" to Sara, Syncetica and their followers, she wrote.
Among the Karaites, the term denotes, like "rav" among the Rabbinites, "teacher" and "master," and is regarded as a title of honor.
Many rely on the rav in their community (in Hasidic communities, sometimes the rebbe) for legal rulings.
The minister is styled as a "teaching elder", the other members of Kirk Session are known as "ruling elders".
He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised; and My covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
One of the most revered Saltigues of her generation (as at 2011) Laba Diène Ngom, one of the best known Saltigues from Siin, during the reign of Maad a Sinig Kumba Ndoffene fa Maak Joof (1853 - 1871).
In Cantos IX and X of the Inferno, Virgil describes the suffering these souls experience, saying "Here are the Arch-Heretics, surrounded by every sect their followers...
It is used as an honorific in Sunni Islam as well as in Shia Islam, mostly in South Asia, the Middle East and Iran.
A noaidi can engage in any kind of affair that demands wisdom; it is said they take payments for their services.
Other uses It is also a term ascribed to one of the clans in the Mahar caste, with their clan totem being a King Cobra.
The commissioning of the Twelve Apostles during the ministry of Jesus is described in the Synoptic Gospels.
Categories The following categories of Nenets shamans are listed by Mihaly Hoppal, who cites research conducted by L.
There is disagreement between various global church denominations, and within membership of denominations, regarding whether women can be ministers.
The Aga Khan was the only religious or community leader in British India granted a personal gun salute.
A female teacher is called an achāryā, and a male teacher's wife is called an achāryāni In Hinduism The term 'Acharya' has numerous definitions.
In Israel, Conservative/Masorti Judaism has not extended Torah honors either to a bat Kohen or to a bat Levi.
The abbot of the collegiate church (i.e., monastery following the Rule of St Columba), who held holy orders and celebrated Mass ('serveth the cure'), was responsible for his monastic community.
Another emperor of the same name, who was the son of Rishabha, was also given the title cakravartin.
Bibliography Goonalitake, Hema, "The Role of Ancient Cambodian Women in the Promotion of Buddhism", Paper for the International Conference on Khmer Studies, UNDP, Phnom Penh, 1993.
Each ashram had a lineage of gurus, who would study and focus on certain schools of Hindu philosophy or trade, also known as the guru-shishya parampara (teacher-student tradition).
It has also mentioned that: Shu'aib ibn Salih's soldiers hold black flags, wearing black cummerbunds and white dresses.
The life of a hogon A hogon is a religious figure as well as a temporal authority; the hogon may be hereditary or may be chosen from among the village elders—custom varies from place to place.
During divine services, the hegumen wears a simple black monastic mantle, while the higher-ranking archimandrite wears a mantle similar to one worn by a bishop (though without the white "rivers" along the sides, and decorated with unadorned "tablets" at the neck and feet).
Background A kahuna may be versed in agriculture, canoe building, or any other skill or knowledge area.
Notable examples of witches in a Philippine concept are the mannamay, witches known to the Ibanag people, mangkukulam, witches that use materials from nature and the cursee as a form of curse, and the mambabarang, witches that utilize insects as a form of curse.
If he participates in the conclave, the dean asks the pope-elect if he accepts the election, and then asks the new pope what name he wishes to use.
Circuit preaching is a way to provide "trained" (as opposed to "lay") clergy for small congregations.
Akhund is increasingly outmoded in Iran, usually with only the older clerics having the title as part of their name.
Then Jesus summoned his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to cure every disease and every sickness.
The term pontiff was later applied to any high or chief priest and, in Catholic ecclesiastical usage, to bishops, especially the Pope, who is sometimes referred to as the Roman Pontiff or the Supreme Pontiff.
And by analogy, beam on which the roof of the hut rests." Tigui means "resting the roof of the hut." Combined together, gives its name to "saltigue" (a metaphor).
The Spiritual Administration of the Muslims of the Chechen Republic in the period 1991–2000 functioned as the muftiate of the unrecognized Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, since 2000 as part of the Russian Federation.
American synagogues in the mid-twentieth century were increasingly populated by second generation American Jews and Jews who viewed themselves as fully American.
This has become more difficult by the people's encounter with the modernity of Israel, where most of the Ethiopian Jewish people now live.
A yogi is a practitioner of Yoga, including a sannyasin or practitioner of meditation in Indian religions.
He was eaten by another nommo, and their spirits merged; the nommo vomited out a new Lebe (part human and part spiritual), plus copious liquid which shaped the landscape.
This explains why the title "archisynagogue" was sometimes attached to the names of the wife and the children, as found on some Greek inscriptions.
He also heads the Permanent Committee for Scholarly Research and Ifta, which oversees the preparation and issuance of official fatwas and conducts scholarly research on Islamic jurisprudence and theology.
In Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene, both occurred: the knight on a quest met a good hermit, and the sorcerer Archimago took on such a pose.
A darshan (Hebrew: דַּרְשָׁן) or baal darshan (Hebrew: בַּעַל־דַּרְשָׁן) is a Jewish scriptural interpreter.
However, some dasa sil matas have struggled and managed to establish monasteries of their own, where women have the opportunity devote themselves to spiritual training and practice.
'person who initiates into mysteries') is a person who initiates others into mystic beliefs, and an educator or person who has knowledge of the sacred mysteries of a belief system.
Question about Anagarikas from DhammaWheel forum, 2014 Anagarika is post-canonical invention from DhammaWheel forum, 2017.
Originally, a muhtasib was an Ottoman official charged with supervising proper weights and measures in markets as well as the proper conduct of certain rituals.
In Indian religions and society, an acharya (Sanskrit: आचार्य, IAST: ācārya; Pali: ācariya) is a religious teacher in Hinduism and Buddhism and a spiritual guide to Hindus and Buddhists.
After the creation of the SGPC and the Nankana massacre involving Mahant Narayan Das, a law was passed handing over gurdwaras to reformer Sikhs.
The mystagogue would reappear in his beastly form and feed on those who strayed from the tribe if it was not in keeping with their religious customs.
The Grand Imam of al-Azhar is considered, by most Muslims, to be the highest authority in Sunni Islamic thought and Islamic jurisprudence and holds great influence on followers of the theological Ash'ari and Maturidi traditions worldwide.
Monastic superiors In the Rule of Saint Benedict, the term appears several times, referring to any superior, whether an abbot, provost, dean, etc.
Funerary practices are also attested archaeologically in Saka tombs from Siberia, which contained tripods, braziers, pelts, and charcoal containing remains of cannabis leaves and fruits.
In 897, a Zaidi ruler, al-Hadi ila'l-Haqq Yahya, founded a line of such imams, a theocratic form of government which survived until the second half of the 20th century (See details under Zaidiyyah, History of Yemen, Imams of Yemen).
These scholars were entrusted with interpreting Islamic jurisprudence and offering guidance on religious matters.
Since 1972 the minor orders and the subdiaconate have been replaced by lay ministries and clerical tonsure no longer takes place, except in some Traditionalist Catholic groups, and the clerical state is acquired, even in those groups, by Holy Orders.
The abolishment attracted a significant shift for Syria, which, for the first time since its independence, lacks a designated role solely responsible for issuing fatwas.
The law concerning the king, and the prohibitions against "multiplying horses", "multiplying wives", and "multiplying silver and gold", at Deuteronomy 17:14–20, appears to be coloured by reminiscences of Solomon (c.
The epic Mahābhārata was narrated to Shaunaka by a storyteller named Ugrasrava Sauti during a conclave of sages headed by Shaunaka in a forest named Naimisha.
In Vajrayana Buddhism, monkhood is part of the system of 'vows of individual liberation'; these vows are taken in order to develop one's own personal ethical discipline.
Freund argued that a stele found at Cancho Roano displayed an image with concentric circles that matches Plato's description of Atlantis.
On food and living habits And with respect to those that are philosophers, among these some dwell on mountains, and others about the river Ganges.
The temple at Eriza appears to have been particularly famous, "the wealthiest and most venerable in Armenia", staffed with priests and priestesses, the latter from eminent families who would serve at the temple before marrying.
The swan is equally at home on land and on water; similarly, the true sage is equally at home in the realms of matter and of spirit.
See also List of grand imams of al-Azhar References Sources Dodge, Bayard (1961), Al-Azhar: A Millennium of Muslim learning, Middle East Institute Beattie, Kirk J.
Maryknoll In Montreal in 1910, Father James Anthony Walsh, a priest from Boston, met Father Thomas Frederick Price, from North Carolina.
rosh yeshivas) is the title given to the dean of a yeshiva, a Jewish educational institution that focuses on the study of traditional religious texts, primarily the Talmud and the Torah, and halakha (Jewish law).
The SSM has since undergone a significant evolution, first offering a bachelor's degree in four years, beginning in the fall of 1953), and ultimately conferring a Master of Sacred Music over the course of five years and culminating with investiture as cantor.
Thus perished a hereditary secret society, since which time no hereditary privileges have been tolerated among the Cherokee" (Mooney, p.
Hurd is a member of the Top Level Group of UK Parliamentarians for Multilateral Nuclear Disarmament and Non-proliferation, established in October 2009.
Levitical status is passed down in families from father to child born from a Jewish mother, as part of a family's genealogical tradition.
Akhunds will usually have completed higher studies on Islamic subjects such as Sharia, Fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence), Quran etc.
121 Centre d'étude des civilisations, "Cahiers du mythe." Issues 4-5, Nouvelles éditions africaines.
In particular, the lay brothers of the Cistercians were skilled in agriculture, and have been credited for the tilling of fertile farmland.
Bashar al-Assad's government leveraged the grand mufti's office to gain perceived Sunni religious support amid Syrian civil war and humanitarian crisis.
Muni (Sanskrit: मुनि, "silent") is a term for types of ancient Indian sages and hermits or ancient Indian ascetics.
See also Bede Bede (disambiguation) Bede House, Old Aberdeen Hospitals in medieval Scotland Lyddington Bede House == References ==
Archaeologist Stuart Piggott, the author of The Druids (1968), accepted the Greco-Roman accounts, and considered the druids to be a barbaric and savage priesthood who performed human sacrifices.
The Church of Jesus Christ (Bickertonite) Within The Church of Jesus Christ, the president of the church and his two counselors are elected by the general priesthood in conference and selected from amongst the Quorum of Twelve Apostles.
Mahant () is a religious superior, in particular the chief of a temple or the head of a monastery in Indian religions.
He may have been a militant/armed ascetic who resided in the Varanasi region in the 17th–18th centuries.
Although the Lutheran concept of the calling emphasized vocation, there was no particular emphasis on labor beyond what was required for one's daily bread.
Wu in Zhou received texts Chinese wu 巫 "shaman" occurs over 300 times in the Chinese classics, which generally date from the late Zhou and early Han periods (6th-1st centuries BCE).
The rabbi is not an occupation found in the Torah; the first time this word is mentioned is in the Mishnah.
It is either conferrable patrilineally with a Jewish mother, in the traditional manner, or it does not exist and is not conferred at all.
According to an old Babylonian text, the god Enki created the gala specifically to sing "heart-soothing laments" for the goddess Inanna.
In 1969, King Faisal abolished the office of Grand Mufti and replaced it with Ministry of Justice and Council of Senior Scholars.
2 Maccabees (2 Maccabees 6:4–5) describes sacred prostitution in the Second Temple under the reign of the Hellenistic ruler Antiochus IV Epiphanes.
Jisha (侍者), along with the titles inji and sannō, are Japanese terms used in reference to the personal attendant of a monastery's abbot or teacher in Zen Buddhism.
Only those having sufficient knowledge of Taoist literature and who passed the test were licensed by the government as official priests.
Imperial Preceptors in the Yuan dynasty Drogon Chogyal Phagpa (1235–1280) Drogon Chogyal Phagpa was born in 1235 as the son of Sönam Gyeltsen, in Ngari (West Tibet).
They are ordained for life by the minister and Kirk Session of a parish, and carry out pastoral and local church government duties under the guidance of the minister.
Calvinists distinguished two callings: a general calling to serve God and a particular calling to engage in some employment by which one's usefulness is determined.
The Chancellor is generally one of four chief dignitaries in the cathedral chapter, the others being the Dean, the Precentor and the Treasurer.
Saint John Chrysostom died in Comana in 407 AD in the Presbyterium or community of the clergy belonging to the church of Saint Basiliscus.
Lengths of papal reign Longest-reigning popes The longest papal reigns of those whose reign lengths can be determined from contemporary historical data are the following: Saint Peter (c.
Lise McKean states the guru concept has been prevalent over the range of class and caste backgrounds, and the disciples a guru attracts come from both genders and a range of classes and castes.
The title was adopted by Romuva, the neo-pagan movement in Lithuania, when Jonas Trinkūnas was officially installed as krivių krivaitis in October 2002.
Legacy By the 2nd century AD, association with the apostles was esteemed as an evidence of authority.
Both are elected by and from the cardinal bishops who are not Eastern Catholic patriarchs, with their election subject to papal confirmation.
While the Association's primary agenda is to rebuild the public function of Shinto rituals, individual priests are free to operate as they wish.
In the post-Yugoslavia states, spiritual administrations similar to the muftiate are called riyasat.
However, they are treated more favourably than maechi, being able to receive training, practice meditation and sit for the same qualification examinations as the monks.
Consequently, there are among the Karaites many learned men who are called by the title "ha-melammed ha-gadol" (the great master), or merely "ha-melammed" (the master; comp.
Rural deans (and those known by alternative titles) rank as primi inter pares of their chapters, and do not have the seniority of cathedral or diocesan deans.
The Dvija restrictions may be theoretical, because most students learnt their economically useful skills through apprenticeship within their family or at guilds.
Clergy or officiants differ from chaplains in that the clergy serve the members of their congregation, while chaplains are usually employed by an institution such as the military, a hospital or other health care facility, etc.
They ranked higher than the imperial abbots and imperial abbesses who although they were also immediate, held only two collective votes in the Diet.
Examples of Jewish women who authored Jewish texts from this period include Rebecca bat Meir Tiktiner and Devorà Ascarelli.
As Paul Wittek points out, Dazimon and Tokat are both mentioned in the 13th century by Ibn Bibi and Komana is recorded separately in 1347 as Komada (Κόμαδα).
The words "bishop" and "presbyter" were sometimes used in an interchangeable way, such as in Titus 1:5-6.
Until modern times, all pratishthas were supervised by them or pandits (such as Raighu)designated by them.
In Anishinaabe ceremonial communities, the water drum may be passed down from one generation to the next.
In a similar vein, he denounced the Hindu Sabha and the Muslim League as divisive communal movements.
The arts provided an important means for individuals to pursue this kind of reclusion; for example, viewers of landscape paintings could take a break from their urban lives by imagining themselves as recluses wandering through nature.
Chancellor is an ecclesiastical title used by several quite distinct officials of some Christian churches.
Hence, frequently, when they are seen to be well, and are neither oppressed, nor driven to desperation by any evil, they depart from life.
375), but the Lausiac History of Palladius may evidence its common use in the 4th century as applied to Saint Pachomius.
For example, in World of Warcraft, newcomers have to play with other guild members for at least about a month to join.
History and Use Silatigi was one of several titles used for provincial governors of the Mali Empire.
In modern Slavic priesthood In contemporary Slavic Native Faith, the volkhvs are those responsible for holding rites for worshipping the gods and leading communities and religious festivals.
Alternatively, a young man or woman who exhibited a predilection or power that made them stand out might be trained by an experienced mentor.
Instead, the Scholarly Council of Jurisprudence, which along with other state-alleged agencies, now oversees these duties, includes a diverse membership from various religious communities, including Sunni, Shi'a, Druze, Alawite, Ismaili, and Christian representatives.
On March 27, 2007, Robinson retired from his position in the First Presidency and Becky Savage was ordained into the First Presidency.
In October 2014, insurgents agreed on a safe route for the evacuation of women from a destroyed prison in the Luhansk region.
Montazeri resigned on 29 April 1989 from his position, On 4 June 1989, the Assembly of Experts and it's chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani overwhelmingly approved his resignation and dismissal.
When members of the Second Quorum are released, they are no longer general authorities of the church.
Ottoman Empire In the Ottoman Empire, the Grand Mufti was a state official, and the Grand Mufti of Constantinople was the highest of these.
The Deputy Executive Minister assumes the duties of Executive Minister during the latter's absence and succeeds him when he (Executive Minister) dies or retires.
21 Gravrand, Henri, "La Civilisation Seereer: Pangool." Les Nouvelles Edition Africaines du Senegal (1990).
This led Christian authors to generally consider that wild animals lived in peace with the grazers because they would have lived Adam's life on earth.
Adolf Büchler has shown by referring to Josephus, Against Apion 2:8, that certain Temple officers handed the keys of the Temple to their successors each day, as a symbol of their charge — and these were none others than the amarkolim; who were, however, laymen and not priests.
Ramana Maharshi (1879–1950) was an "Indian sage" with a philosophy about the path to self-knowledge and the integration of personality espoused in books by author Paul Brunton and Ramana's own writings such as the Collected Works (1969) and Forty Verses on Reality (1978).
Notable Anagārikas Anagārika Dharmapāla Anagārika Govinda Anagārika Munindra External links "Monastic: Training," Archived 2021-08-09 at the Wayback Machine from "BuddhaMind Info".
Mawlawi (Arabic: مولوي, romanized: Mawlawī) is an Islamic religious title given to Muslim religious scholars, or ulama, preceding their names, similar to the titles Mawlānā, Mullah, or Sheikh.
Khorasan can relate to three places: A part of the current country of Iran which starts from the Zagros Mountains, towards Herat in present-day Afghanistan The areas around Khorasan, which its rulers had ruled.
4th century Apollinaris of Laodicea, founder of Apollinarianism, condemned at the 1st Council of Constantinople.
Religious institutions and Islamic parochial schools fall directly under the supervision of muhtasibats.
See also Archaeological field survey Excavation Shovel test pit Watching brief wikt:sondage == References ==
For example; Tapioca starch: 5-35 μm Potato starch: 15-100 μm Maize starch: 5-25 μm Rice starch: 3-8 μm but all are generally under 100 micrometres in size, and are, therefore, best observed under compound microscopes equipped with various lighting conditions and magnifications from x200 to x800.
Further reading Copeland, Lorraine., The early Upper Palaeolithic material from levels VII-V, Antelias Cave, Lebanon Berytus, 19, 99-143, 45, 1970.
Since that time, scientific results related to virtual archaeology were annually discussed, among others, at Computer Applications and Quantitative Methods in Archaeology (CAA).
Law of superposition In a series of layers and interfacial features, as originally created, the upper units of stratification are younger and the lower are older, for each must have been deposited on, or created by the removal of, a pre-existing mass of archaeological stratification.
Publications and Illustrations Twelve of his illustrations were used in Expedition Scientifique En Mésopotamie: Exécutée Par Ordre Du Gouvernement De 1851 À 1854 by Julius Oppert.
Regular daily checking of the record and the compilation of the matrix itself both help inform the individual archaeologist on the physical processes of site formation and highlight any areas where dubious relationships such as H relationships or loops in the recorded sequence may occur.
Contamination Another problem with ancient DNA samples is contamination by modern human DNA and by microbial DNA (most of which is also ancient).
Šipka is a cave located near Štramberk, Moravian-Silesian Region, Czech Republic, 440 m above sea level.
Although the Human provenance of these teeth is contended, no evidence contradicting this claim has been put forward and it has gained some acceptance.
This helps in planning strategy since stratigraphy problems on rural sites are minimal as features often cut into the natural, minimizing issues of inter-cutting features.
Principle of the method ZooMS identifies species based on differences in the amino acid composition of the collagen protein.
Precursors and associated cultures The Natufian developed in the same region as the earlier Kebaran culture.
Natural actions resulting in sediment being deposited include alluvial (water-related) or aeolian (wind-related) natural processes.
See also Archaeological field survey Archaeological plan Archaeological record Archaeological section Excavation (archaeology) M.
In the process of recombining with a lattice ion, they lose energy and emit photons (light quanta), detectable in the laboratory.
The category of stone tools not only contains finished tools, but also cores (large chunks of rock from which pieces are broken off to make tools) and flakes (material that is wasted when making a tool).
Observe and verify the ink impression (estampage) emerging as white-colored letters (grooves of the characters) against the dark (black) background.
Well preserved in-situ sites of the time are exceedingly rare in Europe and very unusual within a British context.
Emmanuel de Rougé, who began studying Egyptian in 1839, was the first person to translate a full-length ancient Egyptian text; he published the first translations of Egyptian literary texts in 1856.
Middle to Upper Paleolithic transition The Uluzzian is one of several techno-complexes considered to be "transitional assemblages": Uluzzian, Châtelperronian, Szeletian, and Lincombian-Ranisian-Jerzmanowician.
Whether an effective picture of past human activity on a site can be truly estimated through this methods is widely debated.
Using the water dredge to directly suck sediments means that archaeological information on context and stratigraphy is not recorded.
In 1967 researchers described the teeth as of Neanderthal origin and assumed that the accompanying stone tools and shell bead ornaments were typical of a Neanderthal culture, that was subsequently termed the Uluzzi culture as it closely resembles the Châtelperronian.
Hilums differ in their positioning on the starch granule and this positioning can differ between taxa.
Additionally, it leaves microscopic traces on the bone surface, which appear very similar to use wear traces and could be an issue for use wear analysis.
The completed sequence shows that the Okladnikov 2 mtDNA is basal to that sequenced from Mezmaiskaya 1 from Mezmaiskaya Cave and is even closer to western Neanderthals than previously thought.
In the case of tobacco pipes, bore diameters are measured and then averaged and compared with a table of diameters to indicate a probable site date.
A strategy for sampling the contexts and features is formulated which may involve total excavation of each feature or only portions.
Concerns arise when actions taken to preserve the physical object may compromise the spiritual or cultural integrity of a given object.
This allowed entire archeological sites to be dated based on clay pipe stem fragments found at the site.
As for trade, evidence suggests both an increase in the mobility and range of groups as well as an increase in inter-group exchange.
The principle of MNI accounts for each possible individual human or animal as an individual unit in the most parsimonious way, meaning to count the lowest number of individuals in an archaeological site.
Another example is the Milwaukee Road "R08" nail, where the "R" is an unknown treatment or type of wood, and the numbers indicate the year it was installed.
With an approximate age of 46,000 years, human fossils consist of a pair of fragmented mandibles including at least one molar.
(For planning convention styles see archaeological plan) In reality the process is more complex and involves many more contexts for the series of features shown in the diagram.
Use Indian ink (usually black-colored) to smear the paper with the dabber, in order to get the impression of the surface.
It is named after Szeleta Cave in the Bükk Mountains in Hungary, though other prominent sites include Dzierżysław in Poland and Vedrovice V in Moravia.
It enables exploration and examination of context and large land areas, on a scale unparalleled by other archaeological methods.
Geometric networks Geometric networks are linear networks of objects that can be used to represent interconnected features, and to perform special spatial analysis on them.
The age of the fossil is consistent with the period of interbreeding between Neanderthals and modern humans.
Notable for its large-scale application of archaeological geophysics and the geophysical survey in conjunction with expansive test pits.
In his adulthood, however, Ötzi's bones suggest that he moved to the lower Vinschgau and Etsch valley.
Critical evaluation The destruction of the tooth is the first inconvenient of this technique especially in the fields of archaeology and paleontology where non-invasive techniques are preferred.
It was opened in 1890 and the first recreational visitors entered the cave in 1938, two years before it was renamed in honor of Bulgarian National Revival leader, teacher and revolutionary Bacho Kiro.
Early research in this area focused on short sequences of DNA from mitochondrial genes, but sequencing of whole genomes has become possible.
In general, greater probe spacings yield greater depth of investigation, but at the cost of sensitivity and spatial resolution.
Their simple actions during visitation, even just visiting a site can be harmful to it, even serving as an agent of deterioration on their own.
The theoretical point was that no one can be certain of strata by just digging down with no visible/tangible changes; the first trench should always be in spits, until sections are visible (comment posted to the Ausarch discussion list May 2008).
Best practice involves removing the spoil away from the excavation site by mechanical earth moving equipment, or the creation of barrow run fed spoil heaps.
The "Ahmarian" category had only been recognized since the 1980s, and was previously designated as "Phase II Upper Paleolithic" or "Ksar Akil Phase B".
Manufactured by the Marshalltown Company of Marshalltown, Iowa, the trowel was first introduced in the 1890s.
When the stimulus is removed, the protons precess at a rate that can be interpreted to determine the magnetic forces of the area.
Carpology pursues two objectives: to reconstruct the evolution of a certain plant species; and to recreate the landscape and, thus, its flora and fauna.
If the ancient magnetic field were oriented similarly to today's field (North Magnetic Pole near the North Rotational Pole), the strata would retain a normal polarity.
The addition of two such prisms to the ordinary microscope converted the instrument into a polarizing, or petrographic microscope.
References Edney, Matthew H "Bringing India to Hand: Mapping an Empire, Denying Space." In Felicity Nussbaum (ed.): The Global Eighteenth Century, pp 65-78 and 334–36.
Aerial survey systems typically include the following components: Flight navigation software to guide the pilot in flying the desired survey pattern.
As fills of a feature form stratigraphically, the direction off the horizontal by which they form may give us information.
Cut-mark piece considers are, when in doubt, detailed %NISPcut, the level of the complete NISP showing cut-marks NISPcut.
The aim of this interdisciplinary project was to raise awareness and educate the public about natural and archaeological heritage.
The culture was at one time known as the "Kenyan Capsian" because findings resemble those of the North African Capsian trans-Saharan culture.
The Red Lady of El Mirón is a skeleton belonging to a woman of Upper Paleolithic (Magdalenian) found at El Mirón Cave in eastern Cantabria, Spain.
An Upper Paleolithic specimen from Kotias Klde cave in the Caucasus (Caucasus_25,000BP) had around 24% Basal Eurasian and 76% Upper Paleolithic European ancestry.
Fluorine absorption dating is a method used to determine the amount of time an object has been underground.
Spoil management Effective management of spoil is necessary because its volume is in general three times that which it was before excavation.
The matrix thus demonstrates the temporal relationship between any two units of archaeological stratification.
Furthermore, single context recording is not an excuse for not attempting to view the site as a whole during excavation.
Soon a series of incredible findings had been published, claiming authentic DNA could be extracted from specimens that were millions of years old, into the realms of what Lindahl (1993b) has labelled Antediluvian DNA.
Antelias Cave was a large cave located 2.5 km (1.6 mi) east of Antelias, 10 km (6.2 mi) northeast of Beirut close to the wadi of Ksar Akil.
This intensive process can promote a more considered assessment as every feature is treated individually.
Different materials have different albedos with regard to both absorption and reflection of incoming light and thus vary in their ability to create contrast, which may either increase or obscure the shadows.
A representative procedure is listed below: Soak a brush in water Clean the surface of the stone (that holds the inscription) using the brush.
Methodology Wiggle matching may be used as a complement to ordinary radiocarbon dating in some situations where the latter yields several alternatives.
Typically, these surveys were conducted in the pre-colonial Era, as part of the Age of European Enlightenment to study territories before colonization.
These teeth, dated to 43,000–45,000 BP, are the oldest currently-known remains of modern humans in Europe.
Variations of polish type are formed depending on how a tool edge is used functionally, on the type(s) of material, and duration of use.
She subsequently travelled to Malta, where her father was working as the Head of War Hospitals, and began to take an interest in the local antiquities.
Gallery See also Franco-Cantabrian region Gravettian Last Glacial Maximum References External links Clovis and Solutrean: Is There a Common Thread?
Wall maps and other graphics can be generated, allowing the viewer to visualize and thereby understand the results of analyses or simulations of potential events.
It was created because of artifacts in Mayan sites that had been recovered in the 1940s without stratigraphic context.
the method does not tell whether the first object in the sequence is the oldest or the youngest object.
This method is useful for the regression of maps that differ in format, for example, raster images of early maps and vector representations of modern maps.
Cutting is the reason why not all past activity on a site leaves traces of its existence in the sequence.
The use of Secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) in the measurement of obsidian hydration dating was introduced by two independent research teams in 2002.
See also List of Orientalist artists Orientalism Orientalism in early modern France Oriental studies References Further reading Georges Perrot and Charles Chipiez, A History of Art in Chaldæa & Assyria, v.
There is presently no evidence to show that Oldowan tools were the sole creation of members of the Homo line or that the ability to produce them was a special characteristic of only our ancestors.
Within the 30-foot terrace, the implements were originally thought to be early Mousterian, but were later reclassified.
Alternatively, Mesolithic and Neolithic Iranians derive most of their ancestry from a deep West Eurasian source (WEC2; c.
In a genetic study published in Nature in May 2016, the remains of an Epigravettian male from Ripari Villabruna in Italy were examined.
The technological refinement of the Châtelperronian and neighbouring Uluzzian in Central-Southern Italy is often argued to be the product of cultural influence from H.
The archaeologist dislodges the material using a trowel, brush or by making a fanning motion with the hand to cause a current to dislodge sediment.
In 2011, a team of researchers led by Stefano Benazzi of the Department of Anthropology at the University of Vienna published a study in the journal Nature which concluded that the teeth are not of Neanderthal origin, but from an early Homo sapiens and date from 45,000 to 43,000 years BP.
However, the attribution of the entire Uluzzi technology to Anatomically Modern European Humans is more contentious.
Levallois cores are present, but they are poorly made and have not received the careful attention that the Halfa cores have.
In archaeology, a type site (American English) or type-site (British English) is the site used to define a particular archaeological culture or other typological unit, which is often named after it.
When long-lived tree species, such as oak and juniper, are used, however, there is a particular danger of encountering the "old wood" problem.
Despite these earlier forays, the chief pioneer and populariser of varve research was Gerard De Geer.
For example, cultures may be named after pottery types such as Linear Pottery culture or Funnelbeaker culture.
Types of relationship Terminology in archaeology is not definitive but the following are typical uses of terms: Cuts: A context is said to cut another context if the former's creation removed a part of the latter.
Relation to radiocarbon dating Thermoluminescence dating is used for material where radiocarbon dating is not available, like sediments.
It is a powerful tool for understanding surface characteristics and elemental makeup in a wide range of samples.
Villalba-Mouco et al examined the remains of two males of the Azilian culture buried at the Late Upper Paleolithic site of Balma de Guilanyà, Catalonia, Spain c.
The vascular cambium ring is active during growing season and produces a new layer of xylem tissue or growth ring every year.
A recent article by Lycett and Eren (2013) statistically shows the efficiency of the Levallois technique which at times has been called into question.
Dirk Albert Hooijer studied the fauna from the cave and found Dama and Capra to have been predominant.
It was also used to disprove the validity of the Calaveras Skull, the first use of fluorine dating on human bone.
Where previously prehistory had been considered particularly French or European, Garrod expanded the subject to a global scale.
Both animal and human figures strive for realism, a rarity in Paleolithic art that reinforces the unique value of the site.
Comparing maps of an area compiled in different periods can help reconstruct the chronology of events which have altered the natural or built environment.
If the excavation is related to development, the impact assessment may stipulate excavation will cease at a certain depth, because the nature of the development will not disturb remains below a certain level.
Trend surface analysis, also known as trend surface mapping, is a mathematical technique used in archaeology and environmental sciences such as geology and soil science.
They were found to be carrying the paternal haplogroups I and C1a1a, and the maternal haplogroups U5b2a and U2'3'4'7'8'9.
The mission which involved the excavation of the palace of the Assyrian King Sargon II in Khorsabad (formerly Nineveh), would become the first systematic excavation of the site.
The scar created by the removal of the preceding flake would provide a striking platform for the removal of the next.
Terminology The Azilian was named by Édouard Piette, who excavated the Mas d'Azil type-site in 1887.
The cultural significance of these geoglyphs for their creators remains unclear, despite many hypotheses.
The FD equations are based on a number of assumptions about the behavior of water as it diffused into the glass and characteristic points of the SIMS H+ diffusion profile.
The discoverers concluded that: The overall shape and discrete morphological features of the Manot 1 calvaria demonstrate that this partial skull is unequivocally modern.
Metabolites Metabolites are small organic molecules usually involved in metabolism either as a substrate or product.
aDNA Enrichment As aDNA may contain bacterial DNA or other microorganisms, the process requires enrichment.
Partage, from the French word "partager" meaning "to share," was a system put in place to divide up ownership of excavated artifacts during the early part of the 20th century.
The rapid formation and short period of usage of a nest, and the incorporation of a variety of palaeoecological indicators, makes each mud-wasp nest a ‘snapshot’ of its late Quaternary environment." The most widely-used OSL method is called single-aliquot regeneration (SAR).
He was also required to make casts and stampings of inscriptions, using the new and still secret procedure developed by Lattin de Laval.
Examples of aerial survey sensors Vexcel UltraCam today consists of four photogrammetric nadir and oblique cameras (Eagle, Falcon, Osprey, Condor) and their calibrations.
This comparison technique, when done microscopically allows for the specific taxa identification of starch grains found on specific artifacts, such as ground stone tools, within soils, through dental calculus, or found in reference to ceramic vessels.
Magnifications of between x10 and x50 are sufficient to locate target residues, describe features and confirm internal structures of the identified residues.
In the UK the results of the trial trenching will be used to inform the decision on the need for any further archaeological work to be undertaken prior to development.
Attempts to find a meaning for their iconography have not got very far, although "the repeated combinations of motifs does seem to some extent to be ordered, which may suggest a simple syntax".
This is because the contexts representing the fills have been omitted for simplicity and the matrix shown is more akin to a Carver matrix (Not to be confused with the military term also named CARVER matrix).
A cut has zero thickness and no material properties of its own and is defined by the limits of other contexts.
Researchers suggested that this cave would have served better for human use than the actual Okladnikov Cave, although they found no traces of human occupation.
Description The site consists of a large two level cave with the entrance on the upper level of the western face of an Eifelian limestone cliff and a large terrace which forms a rock shelter of 50 m (160 ft) width and 5 m (16 ft) depth.
Chronology, major sites and distribution The technocomplex is named after findings in Kents Cavern, which is situated on Lincombe Hill, Torquay (Devon, England), the cave of Ilsenhöhle in Ranis (Thuringia, Germany), and Nietopierzowa cave in Jerzmanowice (Kraków County, Poland).
In the hands of a trained archaeologist, the water dredge performs the same function as a wheelbarrow on land.
This is because the relationships across the section have been destroyed by the cutting of construction cut 5 and even if it is likely that layers 1 and 4 are probably the same deposit the information can not be guaranteed if the only information we had was this section.
2024 argues that the Basal Eurasian lineage diverged from other Eurasians soon after the Out-of-Africa migration, and subsequently became isolated, until it started to mix with other populations in the Middle East since around 25,000 years ago.
This archive of women's clothing and accessories, from all social classes, is a resource for courses in costume design, history, material culture, and literary history and curatorial practices.
As Basal Eurasians had low levels of Neanderthal ancestry, genetic and archaeological evidence for interactions between modern humans and Neanderthals may allow certain areas, such as the Levant, to be ruled out as possible sources for Basal Eurasians.
Sampling strategy There is some argument over the sampling strategy to be employed in trial trenching, especially in evaluating sites that are intended for development.
Due to these disagreements, there is now a more precise set of criteria that outlines Levallois technology from a geometric standpoint.
laid the groundwork for the infrared stimulated luminescence (IRSL) dating of potassium feldspars in 1988.
The importance of the site was recognised following photographs taken by Kenneth St Joseph in 1959 (published in 1964).
Whether these early humans were in fact Homo sapiens or Neanderthals was disputed until morphological analysis of a tooth and mitochondrial DNA of bone fragments established that remains were those of Homo sapiens.
She was based at the RAF Medmenham photographic interpretation unit as a section officer (equivalent in rank to flying officer).
This act allowed for federal protection of sites from looting but failed to protect native peoples from having their land and ancestral objects seized.
Despite its advanced state of disrepair, the wreck is still complete with its cargo and a significant quantity of pottery, some of which shows signs of deformation by heat.
The Châtelperronian is a proposed industry of the Upper Palaeolithic, the existence of which is debated.
The contexts were labeled in chronological order by numbers 01 to 60, the types are labeled in the form T00001 to T00050.
The cave is one of several Paleolithic sites located in the Anuy Basin, along with Denisova Cave, Ust-Karakol, Kamminaya Cave, Isrkra Cave, Karama and Anuy I-III.
Flinders Petrie, the younger contemporary of archaeologist Augustus Pitt Rivers, was meticulous in his excavations and recorded every artifact and detail on site.
It is of even more vital importance when excavating such sites to compile the matrix as the excavation progresses.
They consisted of a mixture of ancestry between people from the preceding Magdalenian culture, as well as Villabruna/Western Hunter-Gatherer cluster, which shares affinities to people from the Middle East and Caucasus.
By their nature, crop marks are visible only seasonally and may not be visible at all except in exceptionally wet or dry years.
Unlike other coinages by Piette, the name was generally accepted, indeed in the early 20th century used for much greater areas than it is today.
Neighbours The Azilian culture coexisted with similar early Mesolithic European cultures, such as the Federmesser in northern Europe, the Tjongerian in the Low Countries, the Romanellian culture of Italy, the Creswellian in Britain and the Clisurian in Romania (in a process called azilianization).
Satellite archaeology is a non-invasive method for mapping and monitoring potential archaeological sites in an ever changing world that faces issues such as urbanization, looting, and groundwater pollution that could pose threats to such sites.
So, if a similar style of pottery was found at a different site, they must be from around the same time period.
In archaeology a fill is the material that has accumulated or has been deposited into a cut feature such as ditch or pit of some kind of a later date than the feature itself.
Perennial herb species belonging to the dicotyledon group (also known as perennial forbs) are characterized by secondary growth, which shows as a new growth ring added each year to persistent roots.
de and Garrod D., 1949, "Les fragments de bas-reliefs découverts dans le gisement magdalénien ancien d’Angles-sur-l’Anglin (Vienne)", C.-R.
Around 19% ancestry of the GoyetQ116-1 individual is derived from a Bacho Kiro IUP-like source, while up to 39% ancestry of the Tianyuan man is derived from an IUP-affiliated source distantly related to the Bacho Kiro IUP remains, explaining the unusual affinity between GoyetQ116-1 and Tianyuan.
Formation Varves form in a variety of marine and lacustrine depositional environments from seasonal variation in clastic, biological, and chemical sedimentary processes.
These are the main type of Azilian art, showing a great reduction in scale and complexity from the Magdalenian Art of the Upper Palaeolithic.
A team including adventurer Ranulph Fiennes, archaeologist Juris Zarins, filmmaker Nicholas Clapp, and lawyer George Hedges, scouted the area on several trips, and stopped at a water well called Ash Shisar.
GNSS, combining GPS and an inertial measurement unit (IMU) to provide accurate position and orientation data.
Separation of components Separation of the ingredients of a crushed rock powder to obtain pure samples for analysis is a common approach.
Culture The Uluzzians made and used beads from shells of marine molluscs such as scaphopods, snails (Columbella rustica, Cyclope neritea), and other species.
and Fuentes O., 2003, "Le 'sorcier' du Roc-aux-Sorciers à Angles-sur-l'Anglin (Vienne, France) : nouveaux éléments d'analyse", Antiquités Nationales, n° 35, pp.
The term derives from similar ones in geology, horizon or marker horizon, but where these have natural causes, archaeological horizons are caused by humans.
Physics then dictates a circular or oval end pattern, similar to the handaxe, for a leftover core after flake production.
See also Fernand Courby, a French archaeologist Collection of over 10,000 estampages from Greece and Middle East at Maison de l'Orient et de la Méditerranée, Lyon, France Rubbing (art) == References ==
He put forward his polemical ideas in A Study of Archaeology, which served as a critique of culture-historical archaeology and put forward his prescription of a conjunctive archaeology.
Andrew Millard refers to wiggle matching as a way of dealing with the flat portion of the carbon-14 calibration graph that is known as the Hallstatt plateau, named after the Hallstatt culture period in central Europe that it coincides with.
In the periodization of pre-Columbian Peru and the Central Andes, there are three Horizon periods with two Intermediate periods between them.
The material culture associated with archaeological excavations and the scholarly records in academic journals are the physical embodiment of the archaeological record.
A slice of rock was affixed to a microscope slide and then ground so thin that light could be transmitted through mineral grains that otherwise appeared opaque.
Appearance The most obvious and occurring trace of soil marks is a difference in color relative to the rest of soil.
Harris matrices play an invaluable role in the articulation of sequence and provide the building blocks from which higher order units of stratigraphically related events can be constructed.
As more evidence of the predynastic period is uncovered, this dating method in relation to the pottery on site aids in determining the relative date of the site.
A few days later, on the 7th of December 2022, a study in Nature reported that two-million year old genetic material was found in Greenland, and is currently considered the oldest DNA discovered so far.
The Micro-Mousterian or Micromousterian is a name given by Alfred Rust and Henri Fleisch to a Palaeolithic industry of small stone tools.
The technique involves hitting a block of wood laid over the ground surface with a weighty hammer and assessing the sound given out.
Stacked together with other strata, individual stratum can form composite stratigraphic units that can extend over hundreds of thousands of square kilometers of the Earth's surface.
However, since different sites have different levels of fluorine in the groundwater, fluorine absorption dating can only be used to determine the relative age of bones from the same site.
The concept derives from the geological use of the idea that sedimentation takes place according to uniform principles.
When viewed under light microscopy, a specific type of cementum (Acellular Extrinsic Fibers Cementum - AEFC) surrounding the root appears as layers of alternating dark and light bands.
A stone foundation might impede the flow of electricity, while the organic deposits within a midden might conduct electricity more easily than surrounding soils.
In doing so, several approximately 1 m2 (11 ft2) test excavations are carried out over the area, as far as possible down to the 'natural soil' level.
The cave was disturbed by looters during the period between the two waves of excavations, damaging the layers corresponding to the Upper Palaeolithic; because of this, the cave entrance is covered by a gate and is closed to the public.
Lawrence Keeley, following in the footsteps of Sergei Semenov, conducted microscopic studies (with a high-powered optical microscope) on the edges of tools manufactured de novo and used for the originally speculative purposes described above.
When a number of objects are recovered from one deposit, the terminus post quem is based on the dating from the 'youngest' find.
g., a shipwreck and giving misleading dates must be considered.) Organic samples which are not derived from the same part of an organism, may show dating variations which blur and obscure the interpretation being attempted.
Next meeting with motto "Revealing the Past, Enriching the Present and Shaping the Future Languages in 2021 was transferred to the Siberian Federal University in Krasnoyarsk.
Finally, a key bed, also called a marker bed, is a well-defined, easily identifiable stratum or body of strata that has sufficiently distinctive characteristics, such as lithology or fossil content, to be recognized and correlated during geologic field or subsurface mapping.
The following year she was asked urgently to excavate at Ras El Kelb, as a significant cave had been disturbed by road and rail construction.
Atkinson (best known for excavating Stonehenge), "unequivocally" recommended the use of a trowel for archaeology; during the postwar era, WHS and a competing brand from Bowden were predominant.
Created and co-produced by Nautilus Productions and Marine Grafics, this project enabled students to talk to scientists and learn about methods and technologies utilized by the underwater archaeology team.
As DNA degrades over time, the nucleotides that make up the DNA may change, especially at the ends of the DNA molecules.
Under partage, foreign-led excavation teams provided the expertise and material means to lead excavations and in return were allowed to share the finds with the local government's archaeological museums.
Sampling Sampling a sediment core or stratigraphic profile to gather information about an environment requires a detailed understanding of the way the sediments were formed.
Examples of phases that would have no associated occupation surfaces are phases of a site that have been horizontally truncated by later phases and only elements surviving of the truncated phase are those that were below ground level and the subsequent truncation at that time.
Cyclododecane is also used as a volatile binding medium, a temporary binder for sealing and conservation of friable and structurally weak materials, e.g.
Data collection with proton precession instruments was slow, making high sample density surveys impracticable.
For this reason, it is often used where preservation (rather than excavation) is the goal, and to avoid disturbance of culturally sensitive sites such as cemeteries.
Of the many rhythmites in the geological record, varves are one of the most important and illuminating in studies of past climate change.
The 15,000 year old GoyetQ2 individual from Goyet Caves is often used as a proxy for Magdalenian ancestry.
A burnt layer or burned layer in archaeology is a stratum of earth that was formed primarily by the burning of objects or buildings.
After recovering from his illness, Thomas rejoined the archaeological team for the Assyrian excavation in 1852.
A water eductor or water dredge is an eductor-jet pump-based tool used by underwater archaeologists to remove sediments from an underwater archaeological site.
The depth of water at a site can be determined from charts or by using the depth sounding sonar equipment that is standard equipment on ships.
The usefulness of cropmarks to archaeologists has largely been a fruit of inspection from aircraft, but the possibility was suggested by Rev.
Ties are no longer marked in this manner in North American practice, and the nails are now sought after by railroadiana collectors.
it is common practice to have special sheets available to record contexts denoted by; masonry, timber and skeletons listing the many variables that are of interest to the archaeologists both onsite and post excavation.
This introduced a "new and discrete usage of the term which was significantly different from current anthropological usage." His definition, in particular, was purely a classifying device to order the archaeological data.
The lithic culture was initially referred to as the Altai Mousterian; nowadays, the culture is more commonly referred to as the Sibiryachikha culture or the Sibiryachikha variant.
This evidence challenges the prevailing notion of solely a high reliance on animal proteins in pre-agricultural human societies.
Trial trenching is a rapid and relatively inexpensive method of archaeological evaluation used to estimate the archaeological potential of a site.
Particularly effective crops that exhibit differential growth include cereal crops, peas, and potatoes.
Cyclododecane is also an intermediate in production of flame retardants, detergents, and other chemicals.
An annual layer can be highly visible because the particles washed into the layer in the spring when there is greater flow strength are much coarser than those deposited later in the year.
Where these highly magnetic materials do not occur, it is often possible to detect very subtle anomalies caused by disturbed soils or decayed organic materials.
It is both intellectually and physically difficult to identify archaeological features in narrow foundation trenches and the potential delay to a project can also be difficult for a developer to incorporate into a development programme.
These combined features indicate that it shares a number of features between the most recent African humans and those of European from the Upper Paleolithic period.
Hill figures, turf mazes and the stone-lined labyrinths of Scandinavia, Iceland, Lappland and the former Soviet Union are types of geoglyphs.
Limitations Features not appearing on one map but shown on another do not necessarily indicate an actual difference, due to purpose, detail, or accuracy; for example, comparing cadastral and topographic maps.
Nearby electron/hole trapping centres, in particular in feldspars, may suffer from localised tunnelling, which leads to so-called athermal fading of the signal of interest over time.
Carpet the stone surface using a large piece of wet paper (or layers of paper) Pat the wet paper(s) gently, using a dabber made of soft material.
Gnaw-marks on the leg bone (tibia) shows that a carnivore (estimated to be about the size of a dog or wolf) bit the bone when the flesh had decomposed.
This group, who have not yet been sampled from ancient remains, are thought to have diverged from all non-African populations c.
Cementochronology is a subdiscipline of the field of study called skeletochronology which is a subdiscipline of the broader field called sclerochronology.
This process of the precipitation and deposition of dead micro-organisms out of the water column is restricted to warm months when productivity (ecology) is high.
Third, supplemental components must be limited to those necessary for stability (that is, substitute components may never lie at the top), and must be recognizable as replacement materials.
Depending on the local geology, the soil marks can show up as dark against a light background or vice versa.
They also found remains of "fallow deer, red deer, mountain gazelle, horse, aurochs, hyena, and bear".
Americas In the archaeology of the Americas "Horizon" terminology, used as proper names, has become used for schemes of periodization of major periods.
Basal Eurasians may have originated in a region stretching from North Africa to the Middle East, before admixing with West-Eurasian populations.
These locations range from one to several areas at a time during a project and can be conducted over a few weeks to several years.
"Taxon A is more numerous than Taxon B." NISP is a basic technique that is widely used for estimating the relative abundance of specimens in a collection.
So, the projectile points could be sorted by weight, height, color, material, or however the archaeologists prefers.
This aids in interpreting the spatial context of sites, communicating findings to stakeholders, and engaging the public with archaeological research.
Ancient pathogen DNA has been successfully retrieved from samples dating to more than 5,000 years old in humans and as long as 17,000 years ago in other species.
He was frustrated by the focus of his contemporaries on typologies, chronological reconstructions, and other elements of archaeology that he saw as formalist and restricting.
Containing cores, choppers, flake, chunks, and hammer stones made predominately of quartz, this site displayed the ability of early toolmakers to work skillfully with fragile stones.
In archaeology, seriation is a relative dating method in which assemblages or artifacts from numerous sites in the same culture are placed in chronological order.
After the preparation of the sample is complete, it is transferred to a microbalance chamber and exposed to water vapour at a controlled temperature (identical to the first ELT) and relative humidity to determine the kinetics of the mass gain through recombination with water.
Estampage or stamping, is a term commonly used in epigraphy to obtain the exact replica of an inscription that cannot be transported.
Archaeologists think the Azilian represents the tail end of the Magdalenian as the warming climate brought about changes in human behaviour in the area.
The ITRDB was initially established by Hal Fritts through the Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research at the University of Arizona, with a grant from the US National Science Foundation, following the First International Workshop on Dendrochronology in 1974.
Mutual Climatic Range (MCR) is a method of determining the past climate at an archaeological site by examining the tolerances of a range of species found there.
mtDNA sequencing confirmed that both fragments most likely belonged the same individual, dubbed Okladnikov 2.
An early deposit model of the city of York was produced in the early 1990s and has been used to inform archaeological decisions in the city since.
As the glaciers retreated, sites increasingly reach into the slopes of the Cantabrian Mountains as high as 1,000 metres above sea level, though presumably the higher ones were only occupied in the summers.
Usage Within India, estampages have been made for numerous items and inscriptions of archaeological significance.
It is considered one of two major transitional archaeological industries in east-central Europe, along with the Bohunician.
Cropmarks or crop marks are a means through which sub-surface archaeological, natural and recent features may be visible from the air or a vantage point on higher ground or a temporary platform.
A sondage is an archaeological process to clarify stratigraphic sequences during preliminary investigations of the terrain prior to an archaeological dig.
If there exists no prior reason to believe that two samples are truly of the same age, and even if their ages are statistically indistinguishable, they are as likely to be as far apart in true age as the measured difference between them as they are to be of the same age.
They noted that the "brown layer" and especially the "pebble layer" were very rich in paleontological and archaeological material.
See also Archaeological association Archaeological context Archaeological phase – Process to reveal former land usePages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Excavation Harris matrix Law of superposition – Law stating that newer strata stack above older ones == References ==
The Szeleta Culture, or Szeletian, is a transitional archaeological culture between the Middle Paleolithic and the Upper Palaeolithic, found in Austria, Moravia, northern Hungary, and southern Poland.
The results of surveying can be extrapolated between known geographical points and used to estimate the impact of certain types of development.
Though some situations, like thin porous bones might more rapidly change the dating created by multiple methods.
vertical photography Aerial photographs can be captured from different angles, each offering distinct advantages for archaeological investigation: Oblique photography: Taken at an angle, oblique photographs provide a more familiar perspective, similar to what the human eye would see.
The degradation of the EPS and formation of the Ca-rich film is suggested to aid in the precipitation of calcium carbonate and further the process of biomineralization.
Godefroy Zumoffen made an excavation in 1893, finding an Aurignacian industry amongst large quantities of bones and flints.
In archaeological illustration, they are typically used to record the profile of pots, and are thus named pottery gauges; but in ceramics, a pottery gauge is a template used in making pots.
Dating of artefacts using accelerator mass spectrometry is the gold standard dating method of today; charcoal-sourced dates are seen as unreliable.
Similarly, species that have left the region were found, such as the panther, dhole, Arctic fox, and reindeer in layer V, as well as the wolverine and collared lemming in layer VI.
Small finds are usually treated differently in the recording system; often they are recorded on plan rather than being attributed to a single context like other generic finds.
269) list three conditions that must be satisfied to obtain a chronological seriation result: Regional variation must be kept to a minimum, i.e.
They were found at the type site of Brno-Bohunice, Stránská skála (Moravia), Bacho Kiro and Temnata Cave (Bulgaria), Dzierzyslaw (Poland), and others.
orthomosaic A high-resolution map created by orthophotos, usually via drones is termed as an orthomosaic.
The traits or attributes included in the seriation must depend on cultural aspects (rather than on function).
Description A distinctive feature of the LRJ complex is blades with "leaf points", which are unifacially (one-side) or bifacially (both-sides) worked, which are thought to have been used as spear heads.
0.50 m or less) test holes, usually dug out by a shovel (hence the name) in order to determine whether the soil contains any cultural remains that are not visible on the surface.
The color of the soil is very important in determining whether or not organic or burnt deposits happened over the soil, producing a black or red colored soil.
(1991): Archaeology in Eastern Africa: An Overview of Current Chronological Issues, The Journal of African History 32 (2) See also Enkapune Ya Muto
It cannot give how old a bone actually is, only whether it is younger, older, or the same age as other bones from the same site.
South Asia Kot Diji (Pre-Indus civilization, Pakistan) Harappa (Indus civilization, Punjab, northeast Pakistan) == References ==
Contextual seriation is often used for reconstructing the chronological sequence of graves as only the presence or absence of a design style or type is important.
Trypsin cleaves the protein after every arginine or lysine amino acid in its sequence, resulting in peptide fragments of predictable masses.
Three subphases, the Early Epigravettian (20,000 to 16,000 BP), the Evolved Epigravettian (16,000 to 14,000 BP) and the Final Epigravettian (14,000 to 8,000 BP), have been established, that were further subdivided and reclassified.
The end product of a commissioned survey would usually be a report or book in a European language, which could form a basis for law making by colonial powers.
In 1962, together with Harrison, they became part of Spear & Jackson, who in 1967 also acquired Edward Elwell Ltd, all the companies coming together as parts of S&J by 1972.
Archaeologists usually describe two regional variants: the western Gravettian, known mainly from cave sites in France, Spain and Britain, and the eastern Gravettian in Central Europe and Russia.
See also List of caves in Switzerland Mousterian Middle Paleolithic Paleolithic in Switzerland References External links Media related to Grotte de Cotencher at Wikimedia Commons
In his book Artifacts and the American Past, Schlereth defines material culture study as an attempt to explain why things were made, why they took the forms they did, and what social, functional, aesthetic, or symbolic needs they serve.
265–270 External links Quotations related to Dorothy Garrod at Wikiquote The Dorothy Garrod photographic archive at the Pitt Rivers Museum in Oxford Dorothy Garrod (1892–1968): Eine Archäologin erobert die Eliteuniversität Cambridge Archived 22 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine (in German)
The terminology of these larger clusters varies depending on practitioner, but the terms interface, sub-group, group and land use are common.
The remains of marmot, gray wolf, red fox, bear, horse, cave hyena, woolly rhinoceros, reindeer, steppe bison, red deer, Siberian ibex and argali sheep were commonly found inside the cave, with a heavy presence of cave hyena and woolly rhinoceros remains.
An analysis of Epigravettian producing individuals in Italy indicates that they were not closely related to earlier Gravettian-producing inhabitants of the peninsula, and instead belong to the Villabruna genetic cluster.
With this information available, archaeologists can expand their research and add more to what has already been found.
The special nature of the find is dictated by research agendas and the information the artifact can provide.
(1998) National Register Eligibility Assessment of Four Sites on Upper Roubidoux Creek (23PU483, 23PU458, 23PU354, 23PU264), Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri.
1863 (now in the Louvre, Paris) Propylées de l'Acropole de'Athènes, 1859 (Exhibited at the Salon in 1859) Sentinelle devant les ruines de Ninive [Sentinel before the ruins of Nineveh], (Private collection) Les Pecheurs, n.d.
Features are distinguished from artifacts in that they cannot be separated from their location without changing their form.
The German inventor Joseph Gaertner, an 18th-century doctor and botanist, dedicated his life to the study of natural history.
Industries are usually named after a type site where these characteristics were first observed (e.g.
The starch grain is specifically important for study due to the fact that it is commonly found in most plants, its long-lasting nature, as well as the diverse forms and structures that they can take based on which taxa they belong to.
Garrod also made changes to the structure of archaeology studies, so turning Cambridge into the first British university to offer undergraduate courses in prehistoric archaeology.
Several other people, such as Norman Hammond, looked to develop similar systems in the 1980s and 1990s.
isocentre the point on the aerial photograph in which the bisector of the angle of tilt meets the photograph.
The French paleoanthropologist Ludovic Slimak argues that Châtelperronian is a Homo sapiens industry transitional between the Neronian and Proto-Auragnacian.
Due to its relatively slow evaporation in comparison with other volatile binding mediums the layer can last for several weeks.
the point on the aerial photograph where a plumbline dropped from the front nodal point pierces the photograph.
Cuts are seen in the record by virtue of the difference between the material it was cut through and the material that back-fills it.
The interval at which the STPs are placed varies considerably and, in CRM at least, is sometimes prescribed by state regulations (in the U.S.) or is determined by the conditions in the field.
However, only beds that are distinctive enough to be useful for stratigraphic correlation and geological mapping are customarily given formal names and considered formal lithostratigraphic units.
Lidar-derived products can be easily integrated into a Geographic Information System (GIS) for analysis and interpretation.
Later, Iosif Lazardis documented that the Natufians had a total of 9.1% non-Eurasian ancestry, and the explanation by the geneticist was because of their partial descent from the Paleolithic Iberomaurusians, whose contributions were estimated at 22% in Natufians.
Below: A context is said to be below another context if it was created earlier and in general is vertically below the other context but not necessarily in physical contact.
Findings After eight summers of digging, about 200 artifacts, some 600 pieces of strike waste, scrapers and bolt stone, and heated stones from an open fire have been found.
Luis Siret had already noticed in Southeastern Spain a Palaeolithic industry that included a microlithic toolkit: small and narrow instruments, variously retouched and with these, colouring substances, grinding tools, and hammerstones.
Researchers need to check if stumps from a Mesolithic or Palaeolithic submerged forest are to be found in the area.
References Further reading Michel Toussaint, Stéphane Pirson, "Neandertal Studies in Belgium: 2000-2005", Periodicum biologorum, Vol.108 No.3 October 2006.
They can then study the trace element composition of obsidian outcrops to determine the original source of the raw material used to make the artifact.
The flux of ionizing radiation—both from cosmic radiation and from natural radioactivity—excites electrons from atoms in the crystal lattice into the conduction band where they can move freely.
That artefacts such as pottery very often survive only in fragments makes precise knowledge of morphology even more necessary, as it is often necessary to identify and date a piece of pottery from only a few sherds.
Populations related to these earlier individuals did not contribute detectable ancestry to later European populations.
The paleoethnobotanist must use discretion when counting in order to properly account for the presence of unicellular and multicellular phytoliths.
STPs will often be laid out over the project area in a grid-like fashion or in a consistently spaced line, creating a fairly systematic survey.
The finds include the in-situ remains of at least nine woolly mammoths (Mammuthus primigenius), associated with Mousterian stone tools and debitage.
In 2014, the autosomal DNA of a male infant (Anzick-1) from a 12,500-year-old deposit in Montana was sequenced.
The multi period site at Mucking was discovered as a result of aerial photographs showing cropmarks and soil marks.
Electrical resistance meters can be thought of as similar to the Ohmmeters used to test electrical circuits.
bl/wh External links Media related to Archaeology at Wikimedia Commons Adrian Chadwick - Archaeology at the Edge of Chaos: Further Towards Reflexive Excavation Methodologies
Current Archaeology summed up the choices: There are really only two contenders on the single-forged blade market, WHS (UK) and Marshalltown (US).
A simplified description of phase would be that "a phase is a view of a given archaeological site as it would have been at time X".
Since the number that follows is the number of the site within an area, assigned when the site is discovered, the whole number really only narrows the area to approximately a 16 km square.
Radiocarbon dated to over 43,000 years ago, they currently represent the oldest known ornaments in Europe.
Some examples of artifacts classified as small finds include items of personal adornment, clothing, health, or hygiene, hand tools or items used for food preparation, recreation, or crafts like needlework; and personal items like smoking pipes, children's toys, or coins.
Numerous other false readings of bisections are possible to the unwary, this is why excavation "in plan" is now preferred.
Dorothy Annie Elizabeth Garrod, CBE, FBA (5 May 1892 – 18 December 1968) was an English archaeologist who specialised in the Palaeolithic period.
Under the name Omphalodes linifolia, this plant has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
(2001) Armitage's Manual of Annuals, Biennials, and Half Hardy Perennials, illustrated Asha Kays and Chris Johnson.
As they grow in the mountains, they are much more cold hardy than some of the Oncocyclus section irises native to Israel-Palestine.
The species epithet manners-suttoniae was given by Mueller in honour of the wife of the Victorian Governor John Henry Manners-Sutton.
It consisted of 6 branches united into one trunk." It had a circumference of 25 m before its constituent trunks collapsed outward on 7 January 2016.
It is not well adapted to colder conditions and can experience significant winter kill in the Front Range region of Colorado.
Fremontodendron 'Ken Taylor' — golden flowers with a darker orange outside petals in the spring and summer, and grows to only 5 feet (1.5 m) in height by 8–10 feet (2.4–3.0 m) in width.
Distribution and habitat Myoporum parvifolium occurs in the south-west corner of New South Wales, and from the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia eastwards to Victoria.
Acacia peuce, commonly known as Birdsville wattle, waddy, waddi, or waddy-wood, is a tree species that is endemic to central Australia.
In North American habitat restoration, native violets are in high demand due to their relationship with the aforementioned fritillary butterflies.
The plant is native to the Cape Floristic Province of southwestern South Africa, where it grows at low elevations on fully exposed north-facing and northwest-facing slopes in association with other native grasses and forbs.
This gives the species an abundance of dried and dead leaves covering the stem; distinguishing it from the relatively leafless stem of Dudleya caespitosa.
Smaller populations are found in arid regions of the Pilbara in the Hamersley Range, in central parts of the Northern Territory and in south-western Queensland near Blackall.
Sphaeralcea incana, with the common names gray globemallow and soft globemallow, is a desert plant in the mallow family (Malvaceae).
Uses The tree is used by apiarists for honey production as the tree produces nectar in winter when few other plants are in flower.
It has clusters of four to eight flowers with petals 7–10 mm (0.28–0.39 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods 60–70 mm (2.4–2.8 in) long and 9–12 mm (0.35–0.47 in) wide.
This shrub grows through underground stems and is typically grown as ground cover or to stabilize soil on hills and requires low maintenance.
International use The Canadian city of Montreal has a Lancastrian rose in the top right hand corner of its flag, representing the city's historical English community.
It is the winner of the Award of Garden Merit from the California Horticultural Society in 1965, and received a First Class Certificate from the Royal Horticultural Society in 1967.
Several cultivars have been selected for flower color and plant form, for use in Mediterranean climate and other low-water-use gardens, including: Penstemon heterophyllus 'Electric Blue' — intense blue flowers.
In North America it occurs in the United States' southwestern states from southern California to central Texas, and south to southern Mexico.
The Clapton Nursery also known as Mackay's Clapton Nursery and later Low's Clapton Nursery was a plant nursery established in the early 19th century by John Bain Mackay in Upper Clapton, London, and noted for its introductions of Australian and South American plants into cultivation.
The species is cultivated as an ornamental and has become naturalized in many areas, including Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, and in southern and western parts of the United States.
Description Koeleria macrantha is a short, tuft-forming perennial bunchgrass, reaching heights from 20–70 centimetres (8–27+1⁄2 inches).
In Southeast Asia, rose water is the basis for a sweet, red-tinted cordial sometimes enhanced with screwpine (pandan) and/or spices called sirap mawar or sirap ros.
The fruits contain, often very numerous, bell-shaped, glossy black seeds, which are strongly humped.
Fremontodendron 'Dara's Gold' — golden flowers over a long period from late winter through early summer, grows 0.91 m (3 ft) in height by 1.8–2.4 m (6–8 ft) in width.
Notable specimens One of the few trees to survive the blast from the 6 August 1945 atomic bombing of Hiroshima Japan, was an E.
It has elliptic to inversely lanced–shaped leaves, pale green, up to 7 inches (18 cm) long and carried in whorls of 12–20 leaves.
It is also found scattered in the limestone areas of Crete (including the islands of Gavdos and Dia), also on Karpathos and occasionally on Rhodes and the Datça peninsula in Western Turkey.
Associated species in the overstorey include; Eucalyptus largiflorens and Eucalyptus coolabah while the understorey species include; Acacia stenophylla and Eremophila bignoniflora along with Muehlenbeckia florulenta.
Common names include bushy matgrass, bushy lippia, hierba negra, juanilama, pamporegano, poleo and pitiona.
It is a twisting, occasionally lying, herbaceous plant which is more or less densely hairy on the axial parts with backward-looking trichomes.
Streptocarpus faninii (not currently listed, could this perhaps be referring to Streptocarpus fanniniae?), is apparently noteworthy because of its contribution to many of the “more beautiful hybrids”.
Tree peonies have been in culture in China for millennia, and it is likely that hybrids came into being in gardens, where different wild tree peony species were planted closely together.
This includes allowing a good skin set before harvest, minimizing damage while harvesting, avoiding harvesting potatoes from wet areas that are more susceptible or likely to be diseased, and avoid harvesting in temperatures greater than 65 °F (18 °C).
During dry periods, parts above ground, such as leaves, will wither away but the plant will survive due to the tuber.
Cultivation It was introduced to the Royal Botanic Garden at Kew in 1774 by Nikolaus Joseph von Jacquin.
It is a low, spreading shrub with long, trailing stems and white, star-shaped flowers and is endemic to southern Australia including Flinders Island.
The berries are quite tart, so they are often cooked and sweetened before eating as lingonberry jam, compote, juice, smoothie or syrup.
The large flowers are lavender to deep blue-purple in color with protruding stamens tipped with white anthers.
Morphology Sporangiophores are an average of 373 (260-484) micrometers with the first branch appearing at 197 (120-271) micrometers.
The flowers are 14 cm long, funnel or trumpet shaped, white with yellow throat, flushed purple outside.
It was formerly the venue for the gàmmu, an annual festival during which the kingdom's provincial rulers pledged their loyalty to the king.
Description It is an evergreen shrub growing to a height of 3–4 m (rarely 10 m) tall, with a trunk diameter up to 20 cm.
He was also commissioned by Arabella, Duchess of Dorset to design a lakeside walk of shrubs and ornamental trees, complete with a boathouse, at Buckhurst Park, Sussex.
Taxonomy The genus was named after the Scottish-Canadian botanist William Fraser Tolmie, while the species name refers to Archibald Menzies, the Scottish naturalist for the Vancouver Expedition (1791–1795).
Growing to 100 cm (39 in) long, it is a straggling evergreen perennial with heart shaped, gray-green, downy leaves.
schlumbergeri E.Morren ex Mez (1892) - Bolivia, Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay Aechmea distichantha var.
That clade, originally given the informal name Telephium and later Hylotelephium, was given the taxonomic rank of tribe Telephieae.
The tree bears small white flowers, which on female trees turn into bunches of small berry type fruit, which attract birds who feed on the berries.
This plant can grow to more than 1 m (3.3 ft) tall and broad, with long narrow leaves up to 40 cm (16 in) in length.
It has been considered to be a carnivorous or protocarnivorous plant because it possesses glandular trichomes underneath the flowers that can trap and digest prey.
Chelmos in May 1984 by Arne Strid (from Denmark), it was first thought to be a form of Iris germanica.
The green-crowned brilliant hummingbird feeds at the large inflorescences of the Marcgravia polyadenia vines.
The variegation of the leaves arises from the distinct white veins contrasted with the dark green of the leaf.
Peak flowering times are winter to summer in New South Wales and October to March in South Australia and the fruit that follows are succulent, rounded, yellowish-white and up to 8.5 millimetres (0.3 in) in diameter.
It has clusters of six to fifteen flowers with petals 8–10 mm (0.31–0.39 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods about 70 mm (2.8 in) long and 15–25 mm (0.59–0.98 in) wide.
Strychnos pungens (English: spine-leaved monkey-orange, Afrikaans: Stekelblaarklapper) is a tree which belongs to the Loganiaceae.
Cultivation A number of geranium species are cultivated for horticultural use and for pharmaceutical products.
Varieties As of August 2024, Plants of the World Online accepted two varieties: Euonymus fortunei var.
Distribution and habitat The species is native to southern Europe from the western Mediterranean to southern Italy.
Flowers are small with anthers that sit outside the small tube created by the petals, typical of Curio species.
Crossosoma bigelovii, known by the common name ragged rockflower, is one of only a few species in the flowering plant family Crossosomataceae.
The young tips of the branches are used in traditional medicine to treat indigestion and stomach ulcers.
It is one of the most common trees on the Highveld and in the Bushveld in South Africa, but not found in the Lowveld.
Cultivation The species is cultivated in the specialty horticulture trade with limited availability as an ornamental plant: for natural landscaping, native plant, and habitat gardens; wildlife gardens; and restoration projects.
The species is reportedly naturalised in Florida, Chiapas, Central America, Queensland, and much of the West Indies.
Mistol leaves are oval shaped, alternate, entire, with three prominent basal veins, 2–7 cm long and slightly petiolated.
Lotus berthelotii is a flowering plant endemic to the Canary Islands of Spain, in the genus Lotus of the pea family Fabaceae.
It has also been found as an introduced species in Ontario, Canada and Hungary in the European Union.
Oomycetes have the ability to spread via zoospores whose multiple flagella require moisture in order to move.
sillamontana should be grown in a well lit position, although direct summer sun can cause burns, so gradual acclimatization is needed.
It was originally published as Iris cengialti but then re-classified as a subspecies of Iris pallida, and known as Iris pallida subsp.
Lilium humboldtii, or Humboldt's lily, is a species of lily native to the US state of California and the Mexican state of Baja California.
Uses The seed can be ground into a powder, which can then be boiled in water like a porridge or made into flour or bread.
A calcifuge, it requires acid pH soil, typically in a partially shaded setting such as dappled woodland.
Cultivation Sisyrinchium bellum prefers some moisture and good drainage, but will tolerate summer dryness.
The genus Anabasis belongs to the tribe Salsoleae s.s., in the subfamily Salsoloideae of the family Amaranthaceae (which includes the family Chenopodiaceae).
Its daisy-like inflorescence are yellow on a long stalk, 30-60 cm long, with scale-like bracts that are branched to the top into a loose corymb that hold 30 or more daisy-like heads.
African American arts This grass has historical importance in South Carolina, where it has been used for basket weaving.
Taxonomy Mirbelia speciosa was first formally described in 1825 by Augustin Pyramus de Candolle Augustin Pyramus de Candolle in his Prodromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis from an unpublished description by Franz Sieber.
Penstemon heterophyllus is a species of penstemon known by the common names bunchleaf penstemon, foothill penstemon, and foothill beardtongue.
An evergreen species, it provides food to deer and elk in winter and can make up a significant part of their diet.
One, located at the former slave market at the center of town, was replanted at the site of the original to which slaves were shackled.
It has been produced historically in West Texas and currently in Central Texas using the Dasylirion texanum species.
ocellatum - southern California, Baja California Both subspecies are on the California Native Plant Society Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants of California and described as "fairly endangered in California".
The flower is unusual in that the central trumpet (corona) is exceptionally large in relation to the outer section (perianth) consisting of tiny pointed segments.
Several of the common names of the plant come from the affinity of doves and wild turkeys for the seeds.
Black sage honey can only be made when specific rain conditions are met and the plant produces enough nectar.
Etymology Dasylirion is a compound word from the Greek, literally meaning 'dense' or 'shaggy' + 'lily'.
History of discovery and hybridisation The following is an adapted excerpt from the 1906 text "Hortus Veitchii": The first Streptocarpus to reach British gardens was Streptocarpus rexii.
Description The plant grows to 15–30 centimetres (6–12 in) tall and 40 cm (16 in) wide, forming a woody, evergreen subshrub with small and highly aromatic grey-green leaves, as well as clusters of purple or pink flowers in early summer.
Sporobolus heterolepis, commonly known as prairie dropseed, is a species of prairie grass native to the tallgrass and mixed grass prairies of central North America from Texas to southern Canada.
Cultivation Carpenteria californica is cultivated as an ornamental plant, grown for its lush foliage, large scented flowers and drought tolerance.
Distribution and habitat This mirbelia grows in heath, woodland and forest north from the Illawarra region in New South Wales to north Queensland.
Manchester City Football Club featured the red rose on the club badge from 1972 to 1997 and reinstated it in 2015, reflecting Manchester's history as part of Lancashire.
The seeds of buffalograss break their dormancy more readily with some damage to the outer layers of the seed.
Echeveria derenbergii, the painted-lady, is a species of flowering plant in the family Crassulaceae, endemic to eastern Oaxaca in Mexico.
The glossy, evergreen foliage forms a billowing mound, with many fragrant, pure white flowers in tight clusters for several weeks during spring and early summer.
cardinale plants collected in California: browniine; dehydrobrowniine; hetisine; dehydrohetisine and lycoctonine.
Each leaf is 8–12 centimetres (3.1–4.7 in) long, with leaflets that are 3–5 centimetres (1.2–2.0 in) long and 1.5–4 centimetres (0.6–1.6 in) wide.
In the case of Cassia brewsteri the leaflets are approximately 5 cm long, bright green, glossy or waxy above and whitish-green below.
Then in July 1936, in the 'Journal of The Royal Horticultural Society' Vol.61 Edition7, page 291 and the 'Bulletin of the American Iris Society' Vol.66 on page56 in September 1937.
Some botanical sources, such as the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service PLANTS database (PLANTS), continue to list the species as Mahonia repens.
The flowers are yellow-white to pinkish, decumbent, bell-shaped, and 4 to 5 mm (3⁄16 to 3⁄16 in) long.
Insects such as predatory wasps, hoverflies and lacewings feed on nectar as adults, while their larval forms are predatory and feed on garden pests.
It continues the work of Theodore Payne, an English horticulturist, gardener, landscape designer, and botanist.
Echeveria desmetiana, incorrectly known as Echeveria peacockii, is a succulent plant in the family Crassulaceae.
Its ability to seemingly regenerate after fires highlights its ability to withstand these fire-prone climates.
Pharmacological effects Calendula officinalis oil is still used medicinally as an anti-inflammatory and a remedy for healing wounds.
Ecology The shrub grows generally on alluvial plains, in California montane chaparral and woodlands and temperate coniferous forest habitats, among Tecate cypress (Cupressus forbesii) trees.
Virus taxonomy : classification and nomenclature of viruses : ninth report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.
Identification At the northern extent of its range, this species can overlap with Arctostaphylos osoensis.
Butterflies are attracted by most good nectar sources, though there are particular plants they seem to prefer.
Leaf spots tend to be tan to gray and are often the result of previous damage such as freeze injury, scorching or mechanical wounds.
Chemistry The Nicotine-related alkaloid Anabasine was named for the toxic Central Asiatic species Anabasis aphylla - from which it was first isolated by Orechoff and Menschikoff in the year 1931.
Almost invariably there are small pockets of hairs or acarodomatia, providing a refuge for mites in the axils of veins on the underside of the leaves.
The difference between the two lies in the lack of regular banding on the leaves of the Stromanthe, and the generally more rounded shape of the leaves in Ctenanthe.
The flowers are mostly arranged in leaf axils, the sepals are 6–8 mm (0.24–0.31 in) long, silky-hairy and joined at the base to form a tube with tapering teeth about as long as the tube.
Rosa gallica, the Gallic rose, French rose, or rose of Provins, is a species of flowering plant in the rose family, native to southern and central Europe eastwards to Turkey and the Caucasus.
Vaccinium ovalifolium (commonly known as Alaska blueberry, early blueberry, oval-leaf bilberry, oval-leaf blueberry, and oval-leaf huckleberry) is a plant in the heath family with three varieties, all of which grow in northerly regions (e.g.
It is closely related to the similar genus Philadelphus and is monotypic, being represented by the single species Carpenteria californica which is a flowering evergreen shrub native to the Sierra Nevada foothills in California.
The nursery's most successful rose cultivars include: ''Albéric Barbier' (1900), 'Paul Transon' (1901), 'Alexandre Girault' (1909), and 'Albertine'(1921).
Foliage is aromatic, but it has been noted that the scent is closer to that of oregano than to other kinds of lavender.
Delphinium cardinale is a species of larkspur known by the common names scarlet larkspur and cardinal larkspur.
The RHS Award of Garden Merit-winning cultivar 'Kiftsgate' was first noticed at Kiftsgate Court Gardens in the Cotswolds, but its origin is unknown.
Subspecies and cultivars There are several subspecies and cultivars, including: Otatea acuminata subsp.
Ehretia rigida (puzzle bush, also deurmekaarbos in Afrikaans = "confused/tangled bush"), is a small, multi-stemmed tree with a tangled growth habit belonging to the family Ehretiaceae.
Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWVI) is a plant pathogenic virus of the order Picornavirales, family Secoviridae, subfamily Comovirinae, genus Fabavirus.
Ribes echinellum, the Miccosukee gooseberry, is a very rare North American shrub in the currant family, native to the southeastern United States.
In European Russia, Ukraine, and Crimea it is typically found in dry grasslands (steppes), including on ancient burial mounds, where it grows association with other steppe plants.
Nakai - (Transverse ranges liveforever) The subspecies marcescens and ovatifolia are federally listed as threatened species of the United States.
In open areas, the crown is broad and rounded, with lower branches nearly touching the ground or forming a browse line.
The leaves are mildly incurved, ovate-lanceolate, and are packed – dense and numerous – within the rosette.
Medicinal Native tribes, most notably Kwakwaka'wakw, used parts of the plant for medicinal purposes, such as poultices and bark infusions.
The alcoholic drink sotol, the northern cousin to tequila and mezcal, is made from the fermented inner cores of the plant.
Taxonomy The plant was known to botanists, including Dioscorides (Διοσκουρίδης, 40 AD – 90 AD) in his De Materia Medica (Ancient Greek: Περὶ ὕλης ἰατρικῆς) as Telephion (Ancient Greek: Τηλεφιον).
Fremontodendron mexicanum Davidson — Mexican flannelbush Endemic to the central Peninsular Ranges, known from about ten occurrences in northern Baja California state and adjacent southern San Diego County, California.
Pieris japonica, the Japanese andromeda or Japanese pieris, is a species of flowering plant in the heath family Ericaceae.
Coimbra, Frutas silvestres comestibles de Santa Cruz, Editorial FAN, 2002, Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia.
Lilium hansonii, known as Hanson's lily and Japanese Turk's-cap lily, is an East Asian species of plants in the lily family.
The genus name Calendula is a modern Latin diminutive of calendae, meaning "little calendar", "little clock" or possibly "little weather-glass".
References External links Jepson Manual treatment: Eriogonum crocatum Eriogonum crocatum — U.C.Photo gallery
Erythronium japonicum, known as Asian fawn lily, Oriental fawn lily, Japanese fawn lily is a pink-flowered species trout lily, belonging to the Lily family and native to Japan, Korea, the Russian Far East (Sakhalin Island, Kuril Islands) and northeastern China (Jilin and Liaoning).
splendens), sometimes called treasure flower, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to coastal areas of southern Africa.
The berries are also popular as a wild picked fruit or fruit crop in Newfoundland and Labrador, where they are locally known as partridgeberries or redberries.
The main sinker root grows straight down to the water table; it may be up to 15 m (49 ft) long if the water table is that deep.
Later use The rose does not form any part of the insignia of the Duchy of Lancaster, but came to be seen as an emblem of the county of Lancashire, and as such was incorporated in the coats of arms of numerous Lancashire local authorities including the county council.
Common names include New Jersey tea, Jersey tea ceanothus, variations of red root (red-root; redroot), mountain sweet (mountain-sweet; mountainsweet), and wild snowball.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, and updated on 3 December 2004.
In Burkina Faso the dried powdered leaves are taken to treat malaria, while in Côte d’Ivoire and Togo the roots are used for this purpose.
Inflorescence is (despite the name of the species referring to a panicle) an umbel with as many as 100 flowers.
While dormant, they are quite difficult to kill, and they remain viable in dry debris for more than one year.
Monardella odoratissima (mountain coyote mint, mountain beebalm, mountain monardella or mountain pennyroyal) is a perennial flowering plant.
Distribution and habitat The tree inhabits dry to arid spiniferous forests in a rather broad area of southern South America which extends mainly through I to IV regions of Chile and central and northern Argentina and throughout highland Bolivia, though it is also found in Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay.
Salvia yangii, previously known as Perovskia atriplicifolia (), and commonly called Russian sage, is a flowering herbaceous perennial plant and subshrub.
It was one of the parents, along with Lilium pardalinum, that produced the Bellingham hybrid lilies, which eventually resulted in the popular 'Shuksan' and 'Star of Oregon' lilies.
In the traditional Swabian method the rose hips are cut open and stored until they are soft (that takes for about 5 days in a temperature of 12 °C (54 °F)).
It occurs over a wide range of habitat throughout the eastern part of South Africa, and in Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Mozambique.
Since 1991–1992, strawberry foliar nematode incidence numbers have been increasing in a variety of plants, but especially in strawberry and greenhouse plants such as Hosta.
Other former members of the genus are now classified in Erodium, including the plants known as filarees in North America.
menziesii (firewood banksia) have also been produced by artificial means, and presumed natural hybrids have been recorded.
However it reverts easily, so all normal offshoots need to be removed quickly to maintain the cristate form.
In 1978, Leslie Pedley nominated the specimens collected by Cunningham at Port Keats on the Cambridge Gulf as the lectotype.
Description Ballota nigra has a very strong characteristic smell reminiscent of mould or damp soil, and can be recognised by its clusters of hairy, reddish-purple flowers.
References External links Media related to Encephalartos ferox at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Encephalartos ferox at Wikispecies
The saguaro is remarkable for the scale and completeness of gene loss; essentially no traces of the 11 ndh genes remain in the plastid.
The stolons of blue morning glory create a thick mat over ground plants, reducing the light available for those plants.
graminifolium is endemic to Australia and is the Stylidium species with the widest distribution throughout Australia.
The plant quickly loses its desirable appearance with excessive watering, too dark a location, and an excess of nitrogen.
The leaves are up to 11 centimeters long with toothed, crinkly, oval or rounded blades borne on long petioles.
Habitat Typical habitat is in chert or shale talus at the edge of chaparral or within chaparral gaps.
Calendula flowers are sacred flowers in India and have been used to decorate the statues of Hindu deities since early times.
Young plants and coppice regrowth have oblong to round or elliptical, later egg-shaped leaves that are 60–300 mm (2.4–11.8 in) long, 70–130 mm (2.8–5.1 in) wide and petiolate.
White-winged doves are important pollinators, visiting blooms more often than any other bird species.
Uses It is useful in the garden as groundcover, where it can be short-lived, but is easily propagated from cuttings.
It is native to the Northern and Western Cape Provinces of South Africa, though it is now naturalized in France, Madeira and the Azores.
The plant is small, growing to 30–40 cm (12–16 in) tall by 15 cm (6 in) wide, with blue-green foliage and tiny white or off-white flowers in Spring and Summer.
– central and southern Europe, central and southwestern Asia Ajuga chasmophila P.H.Davis – Syria Ajuga ciliata Bunge – China, Korea, Japan Ajuga davisiana Kit Tan & Yildiz – Turkey Ajuga decaryana Danguy ex R.A.Clement – Madagascar Ajuga decumbens Thunb.
Introduced Range Campanula carpatica has also been introduced into areas outside of its natural range.
It is particularly vigorous, with clusters of scented flowers up to 45 centimetres (18 in) diameter, and tolerant of shade, a necessary attribute for a tree climber.
Geographer Al-Dimashqi wrote that his native Damascus exported rose water to much of the Arab world.
Description Parry's grama is annual grass that grows 20–60 cm (7.9–23.6 in) tall, although sometimes to 80 cm (31 in).
praecox, it has up to 20 poisonous, strap-like leaves per plant which are arching and are not leathery.
This bowing is temporary, only occurring during the egg laying period of species that use the plant as a host, such as goldenrod gall fly (Eurosta solidaginis) and the goldenrod bunch gall midge (Rhopalomyia solidaginis).
In 2021, Plant Delights' spring catalog featured President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, and a number of children reading sexually suggestive pages from a book held by Biden entitled "Kama Seedtra".
Carnivorous plant exhibits at the San Antonio Botanical Garden and the San Francisco Conservatory of Flowers have featured plants grown and provided by California Carnivores in their exhibits.
Gallery References External links Images of Actinidia kolomikta- Flavon's Secret Flower Garden Actinidia kolomikta Medicinal Plant Images Database (School of Chinese Medicine, Hong Kong Baptist University) (in Chinese) (in English)
alpinum is distributed only within the Daisetsu and Hidaka Mountains, both on the island of Hokkaido.
This plant is not known to be farmed, and has been harvested from wild colonies by poachers, but probably not by seekers of starch sources, but by wildflower enthusiasts or traffickers.
However, Croucher's plant is now regarded as a different species, Dudleya pulverulenta, so Moore's name is illegitimate for the species he described, and the correct name is Echeveria desmetiana.
To germinate, the seed must be scattered thinly on top of potting mix, as they require light to germinate.
Allium angulosum, the mouse garlic, is a species of garlic native to a wide region of central Europe and northern Asia, from France and Italy to Siberia and Kazakhstan.
Naturally occurring plants have been used as "sentinel plants" by avocado and citrus growers to help indicate areas that are free of frost and suitable for their orchards in Southern California.
It can be at risk from leaf spots, rot or botrytis, and could be attacked by thrips, sawfly, aphids, and slugs or snails.
It is extremely hardy, tolerating temperatures as low as −50 °F (−45 °C) or lower, but grows poorly where summers are hot.
The single umbrella-shaped leaves grow on an erect stem that usually stands 12–24 inches (300–610 mm), but with height varying with species.
Distribution There are 18 occurrences of the Arctostaphylos morroensis plant, and it is abundant in some local areas.
In some ways the appearance is similar to other low plants of the rose family such as Fragaria (strawberries) or Potentilla indica (Indian strawberry), but it lacks runners and has more rounded leaves.
Petrosedum rupestre is occasionally used as a salad leaf or herb in Europe, including the United Kingdom.
In early summer it produces racemes of up 10–14 small, nodding, fragrant, flowers with recurved tepals of a brilliant orange–yellow.
That patent has since expired and there have since been substantiated claims that this plant is not a hybrid or nursery-grown cultivar, but actually originated from seed collected from a wild plant in Brazil.
The cultivar 'Silver Queen', with white-margined leaves, has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Other peonies do not have perennial woody stems, but their stems die back after the growing season, to emerge again from buds just below the surface early in the following year.
Once eggs or nematodes are present in the soil, they are nearly impossible to eradicate because they can move laterally in the soil to escape non-optimal conditions.
There has not yet been cross-resistance between fluopicolide and mefenoxam, meaning these fungicides can be used rotationally to minimize the development of resistance.
Nemesia caerulea is a blue- to purple- flowered herbaceous perennial member of the family Scrophulariaceae.
The species may have been introduced to Britain by prehistoric people, where its habitat consists of rocky places near the coast in south-west England and Wales.
It can grow up to 1.2 m in height, and is abundant in terrains with good drainage in grainy soil and plenty of sun and prolonged dry climate.
Eriogonum crocatum, the Conejo buckwheat or saffron buckwheat, is a species of Eriogonum, or wild buckwheat.
The petals are 8–13 mm (0.31–0.51 in) long and bluish-purple, often with a yellowish mark near the base of the standard petal.
The leaves are arranged in opposite pairs, elliptic to elliptic-ovate, 2–6 cm long and 1–3 cm broad, with finely serrated margins.
It is present in the southwestern and central United States, found as far north as Wyoming, as west as Arizona and Utah, and as east as Texas and Nebraska.
Once the pod is mature, it will turn brown, dry off, and split open along the spiralled seams to release the seeds.
See also World's Largest Rosebush, Tombstone, Arizona Old Governor's Mansion (Prescott, Arizona), whose garden includes descendents of 1865-planted roses References External links Official website Media related to Sacred Heart complex (Tombstone, Arizona) at Wikimedia Commons
Description Phacelia minor is an annual herb producing a mostly unbranched erect stem 20 to 60 centimeters tall.
Ravensworth Nurseries became one of only two businesses to grow poinsettias commercially in the United Kingdom, producing around 18,000 plants in 2012.
More specimens were then collected on 8 May 2010 by Dionysios Mermygkas (a member of the Botanical Laboratory of the Goulandris Natural History Museum) on Mt Saitas.
Taxonomy Acacia holosericea was first formally described in 1832 by George Don in his book A General History of Dichlamydeous Plants from an unpublished manuscript by Allan Cunningham.
It is native to southeastern Europe, Turkey, the Transcaucasus, and Iran, and it has been introduced to Sweden.
A shrub with a very narrow distribution, it resembles Rosa dumalis and Rosa rubiginosa, but can be distinguished from them by careful examination of a suite of morphological traits.
Reproduction is easy by cuttings 5–8 cm long, rooted in sandy soil, or by dividing and transplanting the bush.
It is found naturally on the south-eastern coast of Africa where it has been used by local people for its starch content.
The Korean common name for the plant, 금낭화 (geum nang hwa) or "Gold bag flower", makes the same comparison between the shape of the flower and that of an old-fashioned drawstring purse as does the Chinese.
A white down is often present on the underside of the leaves; buds and stems may also develop a down.
The species is naturalised in northern Europe north of its native range, particularly in Scandinavia.
Taxonomy This species was first collected and identified by Thomas Nuttall, an English botanist and naturalist.
References External links Prairie Dropseed, plants & seeds from Prairie Nursery Prairie dropseed from Chicago Wilderness Magazine
Butterfly habitat Dudleya cymosa is the larval host plant for the Sonoran blue butterfly, Philotes sonorensis (Lycaenidae).
The flowers are grouped from two to seven at the end of the trunk; each flower 3 cm long, tubular, pale yellow, with five narrow lobes joined at the tip; flowering is in autumn and winter.
pringlei hybrid) 'Photograph' agm In history The Hungarian revolution of 31 October 1918, became known as the "Aster Revolution" due to protesters in Budapest wearing this flower.
Invasiveness It is considered an invasive species in some areas of the United States, primarily because of its ability to form dense and extensive mats along the forest floor, displacing native herbaceous and woody plant species.
This came after the previous edition of L'Illustration horticole erroneously contained the name Echeveria farinosa twice, once for Lindley's species, and the second for a plant from Joseph zu Salm-Reifferscheidt-Dyck.
It is a close relative of the new world Calliphysalis carpenteri (Carpenter's groundcherry) and a somewhat more distant relative to the members of the Physalis genus.
References External links California Native Plants Gallery: Malosma laurina, website of the Theodore Payne Foundation for Wildflowers & Native Plants.
The terminal branches bear 3 to 11 flowers on them, on pedicels that are 1–3 mm (0.039–0.118 in) long.
It has yellowish-green, glaucous, lanceolate or ensiform leaves, tall stem, green flushed with purple spathes, 2 short branches, 2–3 scented flowers, in shades of violet, blue-violet, deep purple, blue-purple, deep blue-purple, pale purple, deep blue, to mid-blue.
The leaves are rimmed by alternating paired and solitary teeth and come together to form an underground bulb-like base making the plant appear stemless.
Saintpaulia ("African violets", Gesneriaceae) nor Erythronium dens-canis ("dogtooth violets", Liliaceae) are related to Viola.
The specific epithet atriplicifolia means "with leaves like Atriplex", referring to its similarity to saltbush.
An evergreen tree reaching a height of 5 metres and a similar spread, it is drought resistant but only semi frost hardy.
Caputia tomentosa, known as the woolly senecio, cocoon-plant, and the matted caputia, is a perennial, succulent dwarf shrub of the Caputia genus that grows in the Cape Provinces of South Africa, usually between the 900 and 1200 meters elevation.
Ecology During winter in the Ozarks of Missouri, its twigs are sought as food by the local deer; and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), in particular, will browse C.
However, the habitat in which it is native is threatened in some regions by logging and other land uses.
The older bark is dark grey to black that becomes smooth, grey to coppery, pink, yellow or brown higher up.
Etymology The name Jostaberry was created by combining the German words for blackcurrant and gooseberry, namely Johannisbeere ("Jo") and Stachelbeere ("Sta").
It is found in open areas in chaparral, in dry ravines, on rocky slopes and ridgetops, between 60 and 1100 meters.
It features two rose "trees" planted in the 1880s by the Giacoma-Costella family at their property on Sixth Street, which was later donated to the church.
It is one of the few Aloes that naturally occur in fynbos habitats - along with the Fan Aloe and Aloiampelos commixta of Table Mountain.
The Mexican weeping bamboo, Otatea acuminata, is a clumping bamboo native to central and southern Mexico and Central America.
For infections to reach field scale, wind and rain conditions must provide adequate moisture for the polycyclic life cycle to occur.
Trifolium hybridum, alsike or Swedish clover, is a perennial which was introduced early in the 19th century and has now become naturalized in Britain.
Parodia ottonis, also known as Indian head cactus, is a species of flowering plant in the family Cactaceae.
Keeping grafting lines well above the soil line and adding a copper based fungicide also works to reduce rates of infection.
divaricatum (also termed spreading gooseberry, Worcesterberry, coastal black gooseberry or by other names).
Solidago altissima, the tall goldenrod or late goldenrod, is a North American species of goldenrod in the family Asteraceae which is widespread across much of Canada, the United States, and northern Mexico.
Iris × robusta, called the Windermere iris, is a hybrid species of flowering plant in the family Iridaceae.
Only eight of these survived World War II, and were eventually moved to the Erwin Baur Institute, which was founded in 1946.
In earlier times the fruits were pounded, water added and left to ferment, producing an evidently refreshing beer.
Description The grass-like plant is typically smaller than other Dasylirions, with small crowns and trunks usually less than 1.5 feet, with long foliage reaching 3–6 ft.
gallica and hybrids close in appearance are considered as a cultivar group, the Gallica Group roses.
Barbier developed this new rose variety by crossing Rosa 'lucieae', (a vigorous, trailing species from Japan known for its thick purplish-red canes and glossy, dark green, foliage), and hybrid tea roses.
Horticulture Gymea lilies are hardy and adaptable plants often used in landscape gardening, not only in the Sydney region but also in other coastal areas such as Brisbane and Perth.
Gallery See also List of plants known as lily References External links The Australasian Virtual Herbarium (AVH) – Occurrence data for Stypandra glauca Centre for Plant Biodiversity Research, Australian Government, Canberra.
Cultivation It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit, as has the white-flowered cultivar 'Alba'.
Description This species is an erect perennial herb with 5–40 cm (2–8 in) long narrow, grass-like leaves that appear from a basal rosette.
It is native to the Southeastern United States (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas).
Flowers open sequentially, with plants averaging four flowers open per day over a bloom period lasting a month.
It tends to grow in areas where temperatures vary from 0 to 50 °C (32 to 122 °F) and rainfall is anywhere from about 100–1,000 mm (3.9–39.4 in) per year.
It has green, falcate (sickle-shaped) leaves, that are very heavily ribbed, so much so that they appear corrugated or pleated.
& Struck, 1986, which was easily distinguished by its extremely small size, with tiny pink flowers and only a few tiny leaves, and which had a more northerly distribution in (northernmost) Western Cape and Northern Cape; as of 2012 it has been raised to species level as C.
Silene coronaria, the rose campion, is a species of flowering plant in the family Caryophyllaceae, native to Eurasia.
The hybrid developed whitefly resistance while still retaining traits of watermelon (Citrullus lanatus).
The leaves are distinctive, a glaucous blue-green to coppery or purplish, and covered with a waxy bloom; they are 5–10 cm long and have 5–9 leaflets.
Species Two species are accepted: Fremontodendron californicum (Torr.) Coville — Californian flannelbush Fremontodendron californicum subsp.
In 1999 James Travis Columbus published a paper recommending that Buchloe and several other small genera be combined with Bouteloua placing buffalograss with the grama grasses.
It is common in much of its range and fairly tolerant of landscapes which have been disturbed by humans.
A number of cultivars, often with purplish leaves, are grown in gardens as well as hybrids between this species and the related Hylotelephium spectabile (iceplant), especially the popular 'Herbstfreude' ('Autumn Joy').
Description Features 30 cm (12 in) long trailing stems and subglobose leaves that are dark green with purple stripes.
Other nomenclatural synonyms are Echinocactus ottonis (Lehm.) Link & Otto (1830), Malacocarpus ottonis (Lehm.) Britton & Rose (1922), Notocactus ottonis (Lehm.) A.Berger (1929) and Peronocactus ottonis (Lehm.) The following subspecies are distinguished: Parodia ottonis subsp.
The South Carolina populations were found in 1957 and 1981, and the first is protected at Steven's Creek Heritage Preserve.
Distribution and habitat Nodding blue lily is a widespread species growing on a variety of soils including sand, granite, shale, limestone and clay sometimes in woodland or mostly in dry forest.
Wildfire protection Koeleria macrantha has been implemented in several areas of frequent wildfires due to its fire-resistant qualities.
Cultivation A common cultivar is 'Lilac Wonder' (illustrated), often classified as a cultivar of the subspecies T.
Increased competition from the Common Market and rising heating costs necessitated a move into bedding plants and later pot plants such as poinsettias.
Worldwide, Vaccinium vitis-idaea is known by at least 25 other common English names, including: Distribution and habitat It is native to boreal forest and Arctic tundra throughout the Northern Hemisphere, including Eurasia and North America.
Uses Ragged rockflower is occasionally used as an ornamental plant in habitat gardens and natural landscaping.
The extinct Dacian language has left few traces, but in De Materia Medica by Pedanius Dioscorides, a plant called Strychnos alikakabos (Στρύχνος άλικακάβος) is discussed, which was called kykolis (or cycolis) by the Dacians.
Description Echeveria derenbergii is an evergreen perennial succulent, growing to 10 cm (4 in), with a dense basal rosette of pagoda-shaped, frosted, bristle-tipped, fleshy leaves.
History The Barbier nursery was founded by Albert Barbier (1845-1931) and his brother, Eugène, in Olivet, a village near Orleans, France.
Taxonomy The first description as Cactus ottonis by Johann Georg Christian Lehmann was published in 1827.
Cultivation The drought-tolerant and dramatic plant is cultivated by nurseries for use in personal gardens and larger xeriscape landscape projects in the Southwestern United States and California.
It was designed by Tucson architect Terry Atkinson in a modern Spanish Colonial architecture / Mission Revival architecture style.
Dasylirion acrotrichum, the great desert spoon and green sotol (also, spoon yucca, though not a true Yucca), is a plant native to the Chihuahuan Desert and other xeric habitats in northern and central Mexico.
Distribution and habitat The plant's native range is southern Europe to southwestern Asia and North Africa, including all countries bordering the Black, Adriatic, and Mediterranean Seas from Portugal to Egypt to Romania.
Cultivars Billbergia 'Bruantii' Billbergia 'Leopoldii' Billbergia 'Showboat' Billbergia 'Sunset' Billbergia 'Theodore L.
Formerly they were treated within the Sterculiaceae, tribe Fremontodendreae, together with the genus Chiranthodendron.
In California, it surrounds the entire San Joaquin Valley, the pacific coast ranges and the western foothills of the Sierra Nevadas.
Its untoothed leaves are 15–50 mm (0.6–2.0 in) long and 5–18 mm (0.2–0.7 in) wide, and are green to ashy gray, often tinged with purple.
Since then, molecular data has both questioned and confirmed the proposed phylogeny from Zohary and Heller.
Coelospermum reticulatum, commonly known as medicine bush, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rubiaceae native to New Guinea, the Northern Territory, and Queensland.
The linear green leaves have a mild onion flavor and are eaten raw, either alone, or in food combinations.
The pods are tightly and somewhat irregularly coiled, 2.5–4 mm (0.098–0.157 in) wide, thinly crusty to leathery and more or less glabrous, remaining as entangled clumps after the seeds have been released.
It is semi-deciduous, depending on the location and severity of drought, shallow rooted, and drought tolerant by leaf curling rather than drought-avoiding through leaf drop.
'Beau Narcisse' (Mielles pre-1824) 'Charles de Mills' (pre-1790) 'Duc de Guiche' (pre-1810) 'Duchesse de Montebello' (Laffay 1824) 'Président de Sèze' var.
The two to three leaves are up to 38 centimeters long and 4.5 centimeters wide, and are flat, narrow and lanceolate with a clear gloss upper surface.
Occurring in South Africa on the Witwatersrand, Magaliesberg and further north to northern Namibia, northern Botswana and Zimbabwe.
It has been reported from the states of Arizona, California, Nevada, Baja California, Chihuahua, and Sonora.
The leaves may be completely green or mottled and flecked with purple; they have an entire or deeply serrated edge depending on species.
The bisexual flowers are about 12 mm (0.47 in) long with 3 white or cream petals; they are held on pedicels about 10 mm (0.39 in) long.
Cultivation Ribes echinellum is cultivated in a few places outside its native areas, as far south as Hudson, Florida, but does not reproduce there.
– central and southern Europe, Caucasus; naturalized in North America Ajuga grandiflora Stapf – South Australia Ajuga incisia Maxim – Honshu Island in Japan Ajuga integrifolia Buch.-Ham.
It has smooth bark, lance-shaped or curved adult leaves, flower buds in groups of three or seven, white flowers and cup-shaped to cylindrical fruit.
In the UK, it is not hardy and needs protection of a frame or alpine house during the winter, or within a porch or conservatory (undamaged by the wind or the rain).
Plasmopara obducens is known from native species of Impatiens since the 1800s, but outbreaks on cultivated varieties of Impatiens walleriana started in 2003 in the United Kingdom and in 2004 in the United States.
As a consequence of livestock finding the plant relatively inedible, Dicerothamnus rhinocerotis has spread in heavily grazed areas and increased in numbers relative to other (more easily grazed) plants.
The leaves are widest at the base with a pointed end (mucronate), about 4–5 cm long, 2–3 cm wide and about 8 mm thick.
Cultivation Echeveria desmetiana is cultivated as an ornamental plant, and often used as a drought-tolerant groundcover "carpet plant".
The stem holds between 1 and 2, terminal (top of stem) flowers, in spring, blooming between late March and mid-April, or between March and May.
& Vaniot – Korea Ajuga flaccida Baker – Madagascar Ajuga forrestii Diels – China, Tibet, Nepal Ajuga genevensis L.
They are lustrous and leathery in texture and dark green in color while new growth is a conspicuous bronze or red eventually turning green.
Description Matted grama is forms dense mats and is a low growing annual, reaching no higher than 15 cm (5.9 in).
Low was a Scots horticulturalist who commenced work at the nursery after arriving in London in about 1823.
The foliage is toxic to animals, and the crushed plants, called shä'um by the Pomo people and kē-chil' wä-ē-mök' by the Yuki people, were used by both Native Americans and later immigrants as a fish toxin to stupefy fish and make them easy to catch.
Most other plants where it grows stop growing leaves during the summer dry season and focus their energies on their root systems.
The nursery propagated plant material sent by William Baxter from Australia and James Anderson from South America.
The pollination mechanism involving a sensitive "trigger"—a floral column, in which the stamen and style are fused—is unique to the family Stylidiaceae.
Description Leptosiphon androsaceus is an annual herb producing a hairy stem from 5–45 centimetres (2.0–17.7 in) long, often growing erect.
Known species: Endressia castellana Coincy Endressia pyrenaica (J.Gay ex DC.) J.Gay The genus name of Endressia is in honour of Philipp Anton Christoph Endress (1806–1831), a German botanist and plant collector, and it was published in Ann.
Fortune named the species after Beale in an issue of the Gardeners' Chronicle and was sure it was a distinct species, separate from Berberis japonica.
Specializing in the cultivation of carnivorous plants, CC is home to one of the largest collections of imported carnivorous plants in North America, and possibly the world, with more than 1,000 types of imported plant and dozen of varieties for sale in the retail section of the nursery.
Distribution Native Range Campanula carpatica is native to parts of Europe including the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia, Ukraine, Poland and Western Russia.
Shoots and stems reach a height of 30–40 cm, first erect, later prostrate and rooting at the soil surface.
In August the same year Rio Tinto announced a partnership with Chilean state-owned ENAMI to carry out the lithium project Salares Altoandinos in Atacama Region.
A year later, United Wholesale Mortgage filed a lawsuit against America’s MoneyLine for continuing to do business with Rocket Mortgage in breach of its agreement; America's MoneyLine filed a countersuit against the company shortly after.
is an American automotive and technology company that manufactures electric vehicles and supplies advanced electric vehicle powertrain systems.
FirstRand Bank has three major divisions which are separately branded: First National Bank is the retail and commercial bank division of FirstRand Bank.
A 2022 Federated Farmers survey found 23% of respondents reported declining landline service, mostly on copper, while 20% used satellite broadband and nearly a third accessed landlines via VoIP.
The case seeks to require Beachbody to pay its independent distributors ("coaches") up to four years’ worth of unpaid wages and business expenses if they are deemed employees.
Lonza intends to focus on its core business as a contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO).
Marsden B had been mothballed since it was completed in 1978 due to rising oil prices following the 1973 oil crisis and there being cheaper alternatives available.
The company has three fulfillment centers around the country in New Jersey, Nevada, and Texas, which allow orders to be delivered within two days.
Sponsorship Optimal Payments was the official sponsor of Crystal Palace Football Club for the 2014/15 and 2015/16 seasons, with the front of the team's shirts displaying Neteller's logo.
A DLC is somewhat like a joint venture, but the two parties share everything they own, not just a single project; in that sense, a DLC is similar to a general partnership between publicly held corporations.
When gold was discovered on the Witwatersrand, the bank expanded northwards and on 11 October 1886 the bank started doing business in a tent at Ferreira's Camp (later to be called Johannesburg), thus becoming the first bank to open a branch on the Witwatersrand gold fields.
In December 2021, Hagerty went public by merging with Aldel Financial, a SPAC, under the symbol HGTY.
P&O Cruises P&O Cruises was originally a subsidiary of the British shipping company P&O and was founded in 1977.
HDBaseT is complementary to standards such as HDMI, and it is an alternative to radio frequency, coaxial cable, composite video, S-Video, SCART, component video, D-Terminal, or VGA.
PaysafeCard and PaysafeCash are payment methods that allow customers to make payments online without the use of a bank account or credit card information.
Securities and Exchange Commission for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in a bribery scheme in South Africa.
The arrangement allowed hosts to conveniently withdraw their earnings using their prepaid Payoneer debit cards.
Megacap stocks peaked over trillion-dollars Megacap stocks over $200 billion Mega cap stocks that are over $200 billion in the second quarter of 2023.
In January 2023, Canadian financial services company Nuvei agreed to buy Paya in an all-cash deal worth around US$1.3 billion.
Additionally, John Wilkerson, a political science professor at the University of Washington, criticises FiscalNote for placing importance onto whether individual bills move forward, rather the policies behind them.
The company's inaugural loan program was a pilot at Stanford; for this pilot program, 40 alumni loaned about $2 million to approximately 100 students, for an average of $20,000 per student.
Delhaize Group's operations are located primarily in the United States (Food Lion LLC, Hannaford Brothers Company) and Belgium.
Acquisitions June 1, 2017: Publons, a platform for researchers to share recognition for peer review.
The platform gained popularity early in the COVID-19 pandemic with more than half a million new subscribers at that time.
Financial struggles In late 2015, the company said that part of Faraday Future's revenue stream was expected to come from alternative sources, with the anticipated revenue structure closer to that of the smartphone than to that of standard automobile sales.
In 2020, Forward AM, BASF’s brand for high-performance materials and services for 3D printing, partnered with Shapeways to offer customers the ability to order 3D-printed items online made with Forward AM material.
It is designing the Horizon Cavorite X7 as a hybrid-electric 6-passenger aircraft that has electric fans for vertical takeoff and landing and a turboprop engine for forward flight.
The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) protects individuals against discrimination based on genetic information by employers and health insurers in most situations.
In addition, the software, designed and developed by Enterprise Logic Systems, was also innovative in that it allowed RedBox to remotely monitor and manage inventory at all kiosks throughout the country.
Despite these concerns, 23andMe's informed consent practices have been approved by an institutional review board.
Launched on May 5, 2010, by founder Will Francis, its acquisition by Redwire was announced on October 29, 2020.
It launched in November 2012 in Lebanon, providing unlimited Arabic and international music to stream and download for offline mode.
Under Jesus' tenure, Sporting won the Portuguese Super Cup for the eighth time, against back-to-back champions Benfica.
As a result, shares of Noah declined by over 25% in that week as critics accused the company of failing to conduct proper due diligence.
In June 2011, Gottesman pitched the idea at Startup Weekend in Seattle, Washington; He subsequently co-founded the company with Philip Kimmey.
In 2016, Boxed was financed by $132 million in funding by investors including GGV Capital and DST Global.
In business and investing the market capitalization term megacap stock is also referred to as mega-cap in the United States.
The company additionally closed 82 clinics while opening 35 in what was described as a consolidation effort.
In September 2018, the Getty family announced it would acquire a majority stake in the company from The Carlyle Group.
Wang, at 29 years old, founded the company after noticing an opportunity presented by the shift in Japanese companies from NiCd to high-value nickel–metal hydride (NiMH) and lithium-ion (Li-ion) batteries while he was working as a vice supervisor at the Beijing Nonferrous Research Institute.
With 16 seconds left, Bart Starr's touchdown on a quarterback sneak brought the Packers a 21–17 victory and their still unequaled third straight NFL Championship.
History 2018–2020: Under ICE ownership In August 2018, Intercontinental Exchange formed Bakkt in partnership with Boston Consulting Group (BCG), Microsoft, Starbucks, and others to create a software platform to manage digital assets.
Market liquidity: Cross-listings on deeper and more liquid equity markets could lead to an increase in the liquidity of the stock and a decrease in the cost of capital.
Shamrock thought that Razorclaw Brian Foster might still be offered a stay in the IFL but will join a different team due to his successful 2007 season and his entrance into the 2007 GP.
In April 2019, with the likelihood of the upcoming withdrawal of the United Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU), the so-called "Brexit", Paysafe Group announced their plans to prevent any negative effects for their users and merchants.
This is divided by the cell volume to get the volumetric energy density of 844 Wh/L or by the cell mass to get the gravimetric energy density (also called specific energy) of 301 Wh/kg.
Animal care made up 16% of the group's overall earnings in 2014, but has grown rapidly to make up 20% of overall earnings in 2023.
Being small, they are also less financially stable than larger companies, and are more likely to become bankrupt.
History Investec was founded as a small leasing and financing company in 1974 in Johannesburg, South Africa, by Larry Nestadt, Errol Grolman and Ian Kantor.
The deal valued Swvl at $1.5 billion, making it the largest Middle East–based unicorn to go public on the Nasdaq.
This was granted by South Africa's Prudential Authority in 2024, whereafter digital-only OM Bank was formed as a subsidiary of Old Mutual, under Section 16 of the Banks Act.
As a result of the merger, QuantumScape received $1 billion in financing, from investors including Volkswagen and the Qatar Investment Authority.
During the tournament, Skillz raised over $120,000 for the organization, including participants from 38 states as well as over 60 countries.
UWM underwrites loans for independent brokers, and as of 2024 is the largest mortgage lender in the United States.
In 1958, this kelly green was replaced by a darker hunter green; it and athletic gold have served as the team colors since.
On March 1, 2022, RCI announced Tootsie's was one of the first of RCI's subsidiaries to accept Bitcoin as payment.
On at least one occasion a member of one of these Lazio fan groups was attacked by neo-fascist ultras .
Subsequently, both CEO Steve Burns and CFO Julio Rodriguez resigned from their positions on June 14.
In January 2025, MP Materials announced that their Independence facility in Fort Worth, Texas has commenced neodymium and praseodymium (NdPr) metal production.
Divestments November 2020: Clarivate sold its Techstreet division to a for-profit subsidiary of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
The rebranding reflects Barrick’s evolution from a gold-focused company to a diversified mining enterprise with a growing copper portfolio.
AFC AJax NV own 13% of the new stadium, which includes a training facility Sportpark De Toekomst, itself with a capacity of 5,000.
Rover was founded in 2011 in Seattle and was formally incorporated under the name A Place for Rover, Inc.
In the late 1920s, the Lanificio (wool mill) employed more than 700 workers, growing to more than 1,000 in the late 1930s.
A spokesperson for Cellebrite said that Cellebrite stopped selling to Myanmar in 2018 and that BlackBag had not sold to Myanmar after being acquired by Cellebrite in 2020.
Anghami was founded by Eddy Maroun, and Elie Habib in Lebanon, launched initially as a mobile only app with the slogan "The idea is that everywhere you go, you’ll find your music".
In December 2024, construction was completed on the second crossborder bridge in Laredo–Nuevo Laredo, which ended the bottleneck created by the previous single track bridge.
History Yancoal was established in 2004 with the acquisition of the Austar coal mine in the Hunter Valley.
They had been observing the test from behind a chain-link fence that offered no protection from the shrapnel and debris when the tank exploded.
In August 2017, ironSource was reported to be "in advanced talks" to be bought for $1.8 billion by a consortium of investment funds.
is a publicly traded company headquartered in Lindsay, Ontario, which is developing a hybrid eVTOL aircraft for regional air mobility.
In June 2020, Skillz hosted "Gaming for Good" tournaments to raise money for NAACP Empowerment Programs and used in the charity's mission to get equal rights and put a stop to racism.
He became the majority shareholder of the Hochdorf Group by converting three quarters of his mandatory convertible bonds.
In May 2020, Moderna struck a manufacturing deal with Lonza to produce its (mRNA-1273) COVID-19 vaccine active ingredient while expanding sterile production and fill-finish activities to 500 million doses starting in 2021.
Former operations Alliance Trust Savings purchased Stocktrade from Brewin Dolphin in 2015 and sold it to Embark Group in 2019.
After the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, on March 11, 2022, Clarivate, which has an office in Odesa, Ukraine announced that it would cease all commercial activity in Russia.
In March 2021, Chorus retired a first trial batch of 28 copper cabinets, in densely populated, urban areas where the majority of customers have moved on to the fibre network.
Kennedy International Airport, with a car taking riders to a heliport and a helicopter then taking riders to the airport.
The new corporation would remain headquartered in both Zurich, Switzerland and Västerås, Sweden, with each parent company holding 50 percent.
Bakkt Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia and New York City, provides a software as a service (SaaS) and API platform for owning and trading cryptocurrency.
Additionally, SRS offers business-to-business IT and electronic equipment asset management and recovery service that operates across a global network.
The VA6000 uses the principle of multi-format aggregation over a single unshielded twisted pair cable with a length of up to 15 meters.
Curtis manufactured primarily key blanks and key cutting machines, with a focus on car dealerships and "home centers".
It also introduced the Velarray H800, a solid-state sensor based on a micro-lidar array architecture, and the Velarray M1600, a solid-state sensor for autonomous mobile robots and last-mile delivery systems.
The company provides online payments processing as well as products for face-to-face and telephone payments.
The team went undefeated at home for the first time since the 2011 season; they led the league in scoring, with 486 points.
In December 2020, the company announced an original series focusing on primatologist Jane Goodall called Rescued Chimpanzees of the Congo with Jane Goodall.
In the offseason, however, Wolf suddenly announced his own resignation as general manager to take effect after the April 2001 draft.
In October 2024, Rio Tinto announced it would buy Arcadium Lithium for US$6.7 billion, in an all-cash deal for US$5.85 per each Arcadium Lithium share.
Mourinho then secured an unprecedented treble for Porto by winning the Taça de Portugal final against his previous club.
The purpose-built electric vehicles have been co-developed by Arrival and UPS in order to meet UPS's exact specifications, including the latest advanced control and safety features.
It acquired outright the TagWorks company, which made automated, self-service pet tag engraving machines, in March 2011.
is an American manufacturing company based in North Andover, Massachusetts, that makes valve products for plumbing and heating, such as water pressure regulators and other valves.
The Shareholders' Association also voiced concerns about the implications of the gib shortage for Fletcher's finances and reputation.
The second phase of construction began in late 2021 to increase production capacity from 34,000 to 90,000 vehicles a year.
2020 In January 2020, WeWork began phasing out free beer at all North American co-working locations and announced plans for a slower growth rate.
The name Cembra is derived from the Latin name for the Swiss stone pine pinus cembra and symbolizes the brand values of Cembra.
The Cavorite 7 uses 5 battery-powered vertical lift fans in each of two wings along with 2 fans in the nose canards.
For its first ten years, Joby operated in stealth mode, sometimes leading to skepticism of the company's claims.
In July 2022, SWVL announced that its planned acquisition of a UK-based smart bus company, Zeelo, had been dropped.
Thomas Hitzlsperger, a retired German footballer who played for Lazio in 2010, related in his autobiography, Mutproben, that the far-right and fascist fans in Lazio were part of his decision to leave the club less than six months after joining the team.
EBOS Group also holds a number of animal care subsidiaries, such as Black Hawk Premium Pet Care, which was acquired for A$57.8 million in 2014.
Five contracting activities had reduced to less than 30% of group business with the major contributors being cement, tyres and transport.
The 2023 Telecommunications Monitoring Report showed rural satellite connections tripled to 34,000 (14% market share), putting New Zealand at the top of the OECD for satellite use per capita.
It also launched Coffee or Die Magazine, an online news and lifestyle publication that reports on military, veteran, law enforcement, and coffee topics.
On July 2, 2020, Velodyne Lidar merged with Graf Industrial Corp., a special-purpose acquisition company, to become a publicly traded company.
It has since expanded to Wuxi and Kunming, with 250 swapping stations in China as of September 2022.
Future generation developments Castle Hill Genesis Energy has resource consents for a wind farm at Castle Hill, 20 km north-east of Masterton in the northern Wairarapa.
In the 2017 Coppa Italia final, Juventus won their 12th Coppa Italia title in a 2–0 win over Lazio, becoming the first team to win three consecutive titles.
23andMe Research Institute is an American personal genomics and biotechnology nonprofit public benefit company based in Palo Alto, California.
History Hagerty was launched in 1984 by Frank and Louise Hagerty after they could not find good insurance coverage for their wooden boats.
Eight years later, on 3 May 2004, Geovanni's winning goal for Benfica in the 87th minute at Alvalade caused a pitch invasion by Sporting fans.
Velodyne’s sensors have a range of up to 300 meters and can be used for object detection without requiring additional sensor fusion.
As of January 2025, they are facing a class-action lawsuit that alleges the company "shared the personal information of patients with Meta Platforms Inc.
During the COVID-19 state of emergency, the two companies partnered to outfit a fleet of robots with OS1-64 lidar sensors.
Under this contract, the company is responsible for all curb-side recycling material, including all plastic, glass and metal on behalf of the City of New York.
Maccs software operates in over 45 countries and manages theatrical distribution for over 100 film distributors.
The original Chief Executive was Mark Ratcliffe, with his executive team including Ewen Powell (CIO), Nick Woodward (Customer Services), Andrew Carroll (CFO), Ed Beattie (Property & Network Operations), Sara Broadhurst (Human Resources).
The entire flight lasted approximately one hour, taking off and landing at Spaceport America facility near Truth or Consequences, New Mexico.
In 2006, the club moved to a building that formerly housed a BJ's distribution center in Miami Gardens.
In November 2020, the United States Department of Defense awarded MP Materials $9.6 million as part of a government effort to increase domestic production of rare earth materials.
In 2005, Delhaize Group completed the acquisition of the Belgian supermarket chain Cash Fresh for 118.6 million euros.
Until 1962 the British bank was formally known as the Standard Bank of South Africa, although by then its operations spread across Africa.
Other products transported by CPKC from Canada to Mexico include liquid petroleum gas, refined fuels and plastics.
Investec is an Anglo-South African international banking and wealth management group, founded in Johannesburg, South Africa.
"The neighborhoods where most of the social-media complaints are coming out of are not even the neighborhoods that have significant crime problems, which tend to be our communities of color in the south part of the city.
Small companies generally are not able to secure the best (prime) borrowing rates and wield reduced power, including a smaller market share.
2005 – One of the founders of the LLC First Ukrainian Bureau of Credit Story, founded by the Association of Ukrainian Banks.
It builds high-resolution, digital 3D lidar sensors for use in autonomous vehicles, industrial, robotics, drones, mapping, defense, and security systems.
The company has also been involved in philanthropic activities for National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, when it took delivery of a pink King Air 350i, and Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month.
After initially dominating the trans-Atlantic route, the need for new capital led to the company being re-organised as the Cunard Steamship Company Ltd in 1879.
The deal would have created a gold mining company with a market value of about $42 billion that some said would be a long-overdue restructuring of the global gold industry.
Hillman Solutions is an American hardware manufacturing, distribution and consumer fabrication services company.
As of 2018, Rio Tinto's fleet of 80 autonomous Komatsu vehicles had moved over 1 billion tonnes of ore and waste material in Western Australia's Pilbara region.
Manchester United was the highest-earning football club in the world for 2016–17, with an annual revenue of €676.3 million, and the world's second-most-valuable football club in 2024, valued at £6.55 billion ($5.22 billion).
The 2019 contract was for "universal forensic extraction devices (UFED), accessories licenses, training and support services" for a year, with an option to extend for up to five years.
In October 2024, the company completed the acquisition of the Genentech biologics manufacturing site in Vacaville, California, from Roche.
It has ten major products such as vehicle thermal management, vehicle wiring harness, smart cockpit, advanced driver-assistance system (ADAS), passive safety components, braking system, suspension and exhaust, body control, steering system, and body accessories.
See also List of on-demand streaming music services References External links Official website Archived 2022-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
In June 2020, Curiosity Stream signed a partnership with wildlife production company Doclights to add 50 original nature documentaries to SVOD and pay TV platforms.
Economic key figures In addition to its headquarters in Niederweningen and Corporate Center at Zurich Airport, Bucher Industries AG is represented by 22 Group companies at over 50 locations worldwide.
A slight improvement in initial trading performance by December suggested a potential stabilization, with IPOs closing slightly above their expected values, offering a hopeful outlook for 2024.
Under Atkinson, Manchester United won the FA Cup in 1983 and 1985 and beat rivals Liverpool to win the 1983 Charity Shield.
On August 1, 2019, Hostess announced that it was selling Superior Cake Products to Sara Lee Frozen Bakery for $65 million.
In April 2025, Payoneer acquired Easylink Payment Co., a Chinese online payment services provider, for an undisclosed sum.
in Reggio Emilia, Italy, Beringer Hydraulik based in Neuheim (1996), and Hydrotechnik in Frutigen (1997).
Parrot purchased shares in 2015 in startups specialized in the drones industry: Airinov, EOS Innovation, Micasense and Iconem.
Anghami (Arabic: أنغامي ʾanġāmī [ʔanˈɣaːmi], "melodic"/"my melodies") is the first legal music streaming platform and digital distribution company in the Arab world.
The company went public in 2022 with its merger with Nasdaq-listed special-purpose acquisition company Poema Global.
In August 2022, Matterport launched a third camera named 'Pro3' as an upgrade to the 'Pro 2' camera, which features a LiDAR sensor.
History In the 1980s, the New Zealand Electricity Department (NZED) (a government department) controlled and operated almost all New Zealand electricity generation and operated the electricity transmission grid.
Awards Miami New Times – Best Strip Club 2006 Miami New Times – Best Strip Club Miami 2015 Miami New Times – Best Strip Club Miami 2019 See also List of strip clubs References External links Tootsies Cabaret website
A savings division was established by Alliance Trust in 1986, offering pensions and other investment products.
The company was formed on June 1, 2020, by the private equity firm AE Industrial Partners, through the combination of its portfolio companies Adcole Space and Deep Space Systems.
However, after a horrific start to the 2013–14 Danish Superliga season, FCK fired manager Ariël Jacobs, rehiring Ståle Solbakken as his replacement.
The club finished 12th out of 18 teams, a respectable result for a newly relocated and rebranded club.
On 11 May 2021, Ginkgo Bioworks announced plans of going public through a merger with SPAC Soaring Eagle at a $17.5 billion valuation.
Murray & Roberts obtained its own shareholder approval to buy the remaining 38.4% of the shares in Clough for about R4bn.
At the beginning of 2024, Volkswagen and QuantumScape presented a battery prototype in a press release based on the technologies developed by QuantumScape, which has 1000 charging cycles with only 5% capacity loss and an energy density that is at least a third higher.
Prices are subject to local market conditions, as well as FX fluctuations and are not kept in perfect parity between markets.
Old Mutual was founded in South Africa by John Fairbairn in 1845 and was demutualised and listed on the London Stock Exchange and other stock exchanges in 1999.
Listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange, the company generated sales of 3.16 billion Swiss francs in 2024 and employed 14,107 people.
However, they do generally have more growth potential and over time have greater but more volatile expected returns.
Greenpeace staged a nine-day occupation of the site in 2005, and after the Northland Regional Council granted consent, appealed to both the Environment Court and High Court, eventually overturning the consent.
A third motive is the reduction of investor flow-back, which would depress the price of the stock of one of the firms in their own market if the merger route were used instead.
On February 7, 2022, Velodyne’s stock price surged more than 50% after Amazon agreed to acquire 40 million shares of the company’s stock as an investment.
CPKC and Canadian National locked out workers in Canada from August 22 to 26, 2024, after the companies and the Teamsters Canada Rail Conference failed to reach a labor agreement.
One year later, in March 2015, it was announced that Rover raised a $25 million funding round led by Technology Crossover Ventures.
Ranked the two biggest clubs in England by France Football magazine based on metrics such as fanbase and historical importance, matches between Manchester United and Liverpool are considered to be the most famous fixture in English football and one of the biggest rivalries in the football world.
It was started in 2006 by Dennis Mehiel, and primarily produces corrugated industrial packaging, with manufacturing facilities in seven states.
These steps were part of the company's cost-cutting plan, important because the "pause in guest operations continues to have a material negative impact on all aspects of the company's business, including the company's liquidity, financial position and results of operations".
Cross-listing is especially common for companies that started out in a small market but grew into a larger market.
The company filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in July 2024, and Shapeways was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
On April 21, 2021, Gogoro announced a strategic partnership with the world's top two-wheel vehicle maker, Hero MotoCorp, to roll out its Gogoro Network battery swapping in India.
Sanlam, the subsidiary, later became the spearhead of the operation, while Santam remained focused on short-term insurance.
In 2008, First Quantum acquired Toronto-based Scandinavian Minerals Ltd developing the Kevitsa mine in Lapland, northern Finland.
The strategy would entail the separation of its four businesses – Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Nedbank, UK-based Old Mutual Wealth and Boston-based Old Mutual Asset Management (OMAM) – into standalone entities.
In August 2021, Anghami announced plans to launch a new hybrid entertainment venue named the Anghami Lab in multiple cities worldwide, including Dubai, Riyadh, Jeddah, Cairo, Beirut, London, New York and Los Angeles.
On 28 November 2023, the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court of Justice declared that Law 406 20 October 2023, which approves the mining concession contract entered into between the State and Sociedad Minera Panamá, S.A.
In July 2016, Hostess announced it would be going public in an offering valuing the company at $2.3 billion.
The technology platform division generates income via Galileo's customer services, including platform access and card management services, offered in form of APIs.
The Trusts later moved into fixed income investing in the 1920s and 30s, before adding significant quantities of shares to their portfolios in the late 1950s.
Representatives of the American Civil Liberties Union and the Electronic Frontier Foundation expressed concerns about the lack of transparency associated with Nextdoor's use of non-disclosure agreements.
In the same year, Standard Bank reported it had 816,000 business and commercial banking clients, across 16 countries.
On November 2, 2018, KapStone itself was acquired by rival pulp and paper company, WestRock Company.
In addition, the company offers AI features integrated directly into its platform such as Smart AI Reviews, AI-summarized reviews from trusted guests, and Smart AI Offer Summaries, AI-summarized offer descriptions.
EBOS Dental and Surgical Supplies was listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange in 1967 and formally rebranded as EBOS Group Limited in 1986.
The certification authority – an international company TÜV Rheinland Group (LLC TÜV Rheinland Ukraine, www.tuv.com.ua).
Two years later, on 28 May 1952, the stadium was inaugurated with a ceremony, featuring the presence of the President of the Republic Francisco Craveiro Lopes, and a match against Benfica, which Porto lost 2–8.
The camps for this season were as follows: 1 Antonio Inoki was originally going to be the Tokyo Sabres' coach and mentor but has since been dropped by the IFL.
BYD also operates an electric bus manufacturing plant in Lancaster, California, near Los Angeles, since 2014.
In September 2025, Investec announced that it had become one of the first major banks in South Africa to enter the electricity market, after the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) granted it a trading license.
One year later, the Indian company Sterling Fluid Technologies was acquired and integrated into the Bucher Hydraulics division.
The group's areas of expertise include insurance (life and general), financial planning, retirement annuities, trusts, wills, short-term insurance, asset management, risk management, capital market activities, investment and wealth.
The VSS Unity was carried to 44,000 feet by the jet powered launch aircraft Mothership Eve, where it was released to reach its suborbital altitude over New Mexico.
Foxconn's plan was to use the factory as the production hub for the proposed Fisker PEAR electric vehicle.
First Quantum took out an action against the DRC government in the International Chamber of Commerce International Court of Arbitration.
In 2019, Rover formally expanded its services to include cat care, and in 2024 acquired Cat in a Flat, a cat-sitting service marketplace based in London.
Yancoal produced 13.9 million tonnes (31 billion pounds) of run-of-mine coal (an increase from the previous quarter’s 8.3 million tonnes or 18 billion pounds) during the June 2024 quarter with 8.6 million tonnes (19 billion pounds).
It targets three markets—creative professionals (advertising and graphic design), the media (print and online publishing), and corporate (in-house design, marketing and communication departments).
On 23 July 2020, Curtis announced agreements to acquire the SIPP and SSAS operator Talbot and Muir for a total consideration of up to £25.25m, and financial technology provider Dunstan Thomas for a total consideration of up to £27.5m.
The QSE-5 B-sample cell has a measured cell energy of 21.6 Watt-hours (Wh) at C/5 discharge rate and 25 °C.
Internationally, Porto reached the quarter-finals of the 1977–78 Cup Winners' Cup, beating Manchester United along the way, but suffered its heaviest defeat (6–1) against AEK Athens in the subsequent season's European Cup.
By mid-2013 over 60% of overall sales were from Australia, only 20% from New Zealand, with the rest from North America.
Murray & Roberts suspended trading in November 2024, and was sold off to a new consortium of investors.
Pettinatura di Verrone Founded in 1960, Pettinatura di Verrone is a combing mill based in the textile district of Biella and specialized in combing superfine wools, cashmere, and vicuña.
Volta charging stations were compatible with all major plug-in hybrid and battery electric vehicle types in the United States and had a digital screen featuring advertisements.
During September 1992, ABB Group purchased the stakes of the other members of the consortium to become the sole owner with the business rebranded ABB Transportation.
In addition, Hochdorf still owned 51 percent of the Tunisian marketing organization Pharmalys Laboratories SA until the end of 2019.
The study also found that "The average post-merger SPAC during this period underperformed the average traditional IPO by 26%." Another study, focusing on a longer timeframe of U.S.
The company moved to its current headquarters, in the Union Station office complex in Seattle's International District, in 2011.
In November 2020, the company announced a new series, Beyond the Spotlight, from executive producers Leonardo DiCaprio and Stephen David.
Bonotto Originally founded in 1912 as a straw hats maker, Bonotto was converted in a textile manufacturer by Nicla Donazzan and Luigi Bonotto in 1972.
In October 2010, the 3,000 m (10,000 ft) runway at Spaceport America was opened, with SpaceShipTwo "VSS Enterprise" shipped to the site carried underneath the fuselage of Virgin Galactic's mothership Eve.
In 1968, the first factory producing sleeve-units and trousers was opened in Novara, followed by openings in Spain, Greece, and Switzerland.
Wheels Up also flies Beechcraft King Air 350i, which has good short field performance, cargo capacity and seats nine passengers.
European stage (1980–1993) The club led under Trapattoni in the 1980s brought them the league title three more times by 1984.
In March 2023, in response to the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, Noah stated its business operations were not materially affected.
The company initially focused on providing coverage for antique boats, and later expanded into cars and other vehicles.
In 2016, Nextdoor announced that users would be asked to submit identifying characteristics other than race when posting warnings about individuals or events in the neighborhood.
Smucker Company agreed to acquire Hostess Brands for $5.6 billion in a cash and stock deal on September 11, 2023.
In February 2024, Skillz was awarded a $42.9 million judgement against rival AviaGames for patent infringement.
In January 2025, 23andMe disclosed it needed additional liquidity and was exploring strategic alternatives including a potential sale.
The same year the Sage Group had entered the payments industry in its home country, the United Kingdom, through the acquisition of Protx, though the companies were kept separate.
In 2024, Lonza announced plans to streamline its operations by exiting the capsules and health ingredients sector.
In 2010, the FDA notified several genetic testing companies, including 23andMe, that their tests were considered medical devices requiring federal approval; a similar letter was sent to Illumina, which makes the instruments and chips used by 23andMe.
In June 2017, in partnership with Embassy Group, WeWork India, led by then 25-year old Karan Virwani, son of the Embassy Group owner Jitu Virwani, opened its first space in Bangalore, India, named WeWork Galaxy, with capacity for 2,200 members.
At the beginning of 2009, the two subsidiaries Hochdorf Nutrifood and Hochdorf Nutrition were merged.
Also in 2013, Old Mutual acquired the Fairheads Trust Company, one of the oldest trust companies in South Africa, and established the Old Mutual Wealth Trust Company.
Since 17 May 1998 the club is registered as a Naamloze vennootschap (N.V.) listed on the stock exchange Euronext Amsterdam.
In May 2022, the company began to offer Payoneer Checkout, a service which enables merchants to work with direct-to-customer (DTC) online stores.
Locations outside the United States and Canada and WeWork franchisees were not part of the bankruptcy.
Prior to his appointment, over the past 5 years, Dmytro Zolotko was an advisor to the chairman of the Board of Ukrgasbank, Treasurer - deputy chairman of the Board of Ukrainian Sberbank.
In February 2015, FiscalNote announced that it had raised $10 million in a third round of financing.
Voting Since 2018, Nextdoor has partnered with Vote.org to launch an interactive Vote Map during elections that mark local poll locations and allow users to share whether they have voted or plan to vote.
Rawlinson took on the additional role of CEO in April 2019 while keeping his role as CTO and board member.
On August 4, 2025, Shell informed Volta employees that it would shut down the company and dismantle all charging stations by the end of the year; instead Volta was acquired by Australian company Jolt in November 2025.
In March 2019, Sporting CP announced a loan negotiated with Apollo Global Management, based on the securitization of NOS' television rights revenues.
The 6-passenger (plus one pilot) is planned to achieve 280 miles per hour (450 km/h) could offer a 500 mile range by 2030.
In spring 2023, Cembra launched the new business unit CembraPay and bundled its subsidiaries Swissbilling and Byjuno into it.
In October 2025, SoFi announced the introduction of a new product called Cash Coach — an AI-powered system designed to assist consumers in optimizing the interest earned in deposit accounts and minimizing the interest expense on credit cards.
The collection includes toilet paper, paper towels, trash bags, paper plates, party cups, cutlery, batteries and hand soap, as well as groceries including organic, fair trade coffee, organic coconut oil, olive oil, nuts and trail mixes.
Bali United completed their first full season in the 2016 Indonesia Soccer Championship A, a temporary league organized to replace the suspended Indonesia Super League.
History Genesis Energy began business on 1 April 1999, after the reform of the New Zealand electricity market and the breakup of the Electricity Corporation of New Zealand (ECNZ).
Operations As of 2024, Standard Bank had a presence in over 20 Sub-Saharan African countries, 4 global centers, and 2 offshore hubs.
Ornamental connectors In 2021 Hillman acquired OZCO Building Products, a Garland, Texas based manufacturer of ornamental connectors intended for outdoor pergolas, fences and similar applications.
Tootsie's Cabaret Miami is a large adult entertainment club in Miami Gardens, a suburb of Miami in northern Miami-Dade County, Florida.
It was estimated that a merger could create $7 billion of value in operational synergies and would result in a 14% rise in Newmont's net asset value per share.
In September 2019, after regulatory delays, Intercontinental Exchange began trading of bitcoin futures.
Rodgers suffered a broken collarbone, and the Packers placed him on injured reserve, with the stipulation that he could return, especially if the injury healed quickly and the Packers were still in playoff contention.
The shortage had forced builders and retailers including Bunnings to explore alternative plasterboard sources from overseas including China as well as domestic competitor Elephant Plasterboard.
In 2009, the company was profitable, making its money from pharmaceutical companies for which it compiled test results of RealAge members and sending them highly targeted marketing messages by e-mail.
Funding In May 2021, Valens announced plans to list on the New York Stock Exchange through a business combination with PTK Acquisition Corp., a special purpose acquisition company.
Its main shareholders are currently UBS Fund Management (Switzerland), Swisscanto Fondsleitung AG and BlackRock Inc.
Sponsorships CPKC inherited and renewed CP's existing sponsorship of the Canadian Women's Open golf tournament in July 2023, extending it through 2026.
The move was a part of a larger move by Renren to diversify beyond its core area of online games and e-commerce in China.
The sale to Carlyle thereafter was announced at $3.3 billion, with co-founders Getty and Klein and the Getty family all carrying their investments over into the new ownership structure.
In September 2023, Getty announced that it was partnering with Nvidia to launch Generative AI by Getty Images, a new tool that lets people create images using Getty's library of licensed photos.
Future teams announced at the IFL event at the MARK of the Quad Cities will be coached by Don Frye (Scorpions) and Marco Ruas (Piranhas) and based in Arizona and Southern California respectively.
Nextdoor requires individuals who join the council to sign a non-disclosure agreement that restricts them from disclosing certain types of information about Nextdoor without the company's permission.
is an American company which operates an online marketplace for people to buy and sell pet care services including pet sitting, dog boarding, and dog walking.
Hindenburg's report showed that thousands of Lordstown's claimed orders were non-binding, no-deposit indications of interest by companies without the apparent financial strength to support the size of the orders.
Yancoal is an Australian coal mining company operating mines in New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia.
The Economist Group's equity interest was reduced by £12m In FY2020 when FiscalNote raised $54m of additional capital to support its next phase of growth.
In September 2019, Wheels Up announced it had purchased Avianis, a B2B platform that streamlines communications between operators and brokers.
PlaceMakers has been the main trading brand for Fletcher Distribution's retail stores around the country since 1954.
In 2021 Ventia was floated on the Australian Securities Exchange and New Zealand Exchange as a dual listed company.
Gores Holdings subsequently renamed itself Hostess Brands, Inc., changing its ticker symbol from GRSH to TWNK, after the Twinkie brand snack cake.
Wolfsberg is projected to be the first major source of battery-grade lithium in Europe, potentially supporting the production of nearly 200,000 electric vehicles per year.
It started off focusing on conventional and FHA loans and the name was later changed from Shore Mortgage to United Wholesale Mortgage.
In the 2022–23 season, Bali United finished fifth in Liga 1, remaining competitive in the upper half of the table.
Skillz is an online mobile multiplayer video game competition platform that is integrated into a number of iOS and Android games.
The club won its second Superliga championship, winning 3–1 in the last Copenhagen Derby match of the season.
History In 2014, Ginkgo was the first biotechnology company to join the Y Combinator start-up accelerator program.
In 2015 CIMIC Group merged its Leighton Contractors Services, Thiess Services and Visionstream divisions to form Ventia.
Sanlam's 2018 acquisition of SAHAM Finances made it Africa’s largest non-banking financial services group.
Dean Metropoulos and Company, to acquire assets from Old HB, the company formerly known as Interstate Bakeries and Hostess Brands Inc.
As of 31 December 2014, Delhaize Group had a sales network (which includes directly operated, franchised, and affiliated stores) of 3,402 stores and employed approximately 150,000 people (excluding the stores and related associates of divested and discontinued operations).
Flicks lists every movie, cinema and session nationwide in its markets, along with reviews, trailers, local release guides, festival profiles and editorial pieces from credited movie-writing talent.
The company's services include the management and control of the entire asset management process, including transport, coordination, product identification, asset registration and reporting.
KapStone acquired Longview Fibre Paper and Packaging from Brookfield Asset Management on July 18, 2013 .
In December 2018 Yancoal became a dual-listed company when it was listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Used worldwide by a diverse range of small cinema operators, Veezi also supports integration with several internet ticket aggregators.
In July 2020, Curiosity Stream signed a partnership deal with Swedish telecommunications Com Hem to bring the company's library content to Sweden.
In April 2023, the company began delivering a blacked-out or dark-trimmed 'Stealth' Air to customers following its introduction in August.
Security breaches On January 12, 2017, it was reported that an unknown hacker had acquired 900 GB worth of confidential data from Cellebrite's external servers.
Following the losses, Noah dropped offering of non-standard assets and focused only on investments based on publicly traded securities like stocks and bonds.
On March 25, 2021, three months after establishing its North American headquarters in the Charlotte, North Carolina metro area, it went public on the Nasdaq under the symbol ARVL, reaching a value of $250 million in January 2023 after being worth $15 billion at its peak.
Colours and badge Bali United traditionally play in red home kits, white away kits, and black third kits, inspired by the sacred Balinese Hinduism tri-colour, Tridatu, which gave rise to the club's nickname, Serdadu Tridatu (Tridatu Warriors).
MP Materials owns and operates the Mountain Pass mine, the only operating rare earth mine and processing facility in the United States.
On August 6, 2024, Clarivate appointed former ProQuest CEO Matti Shem Tov as the Company's next CEO.
In addition, Sporting announced it would own 88 per cent of Sporting SAD from 15 February 2024 onwards, instead of the 83.90% it owned at the time.
In 2009, the company left the German market after 6 years and sold all of its 4 supermarkets to REWE Group.
They show that in some cases, arbitrageurs would have to wait for almost nine years before prices have converged and the position can be closed.
There is also the possibility of participating in co-creator platforms in which consumers and designers work together to achieve optimal results.
Both sides of the studio lawsuits pointed to these revenue-sharing deals to shore up their argument, with Redbox president Mitch Lowe saying, "our growth can lead to theirs [the studios' growth].
In November 2008, shareholders approved the changes of the corporate name to Sims Metal Management Limited.
Van The van would have a 120 kW (160 hp) engine, giving a maximum speed of 120 km/h (75 mph), and a payload of up to 1,975 kg (4,354 lb).
Each event would have two camps competing each other in three on three match-ups while at least two titles would be defended at every event (allowing each fight card to have a minimum of eight fights each).
As of the beginning of 2020, the majority owner of the bank was a citizen of the Russian Federation, Yevgeny Giner.
Key cutting While the still part of the Sun conglomerate, Hillman acquired the retail division of Curtis Industries of Eastlake, Ohio, in 1995.
The company became the owner and organizer of the Greenwich Concours d'Elégance and established MotorsportReg.com and Hagerty Garage + Social in 2019.
In 2015, Genesis produced 14% of New Zealand's electricity, and is the third largest electricity generating company in New Zealand in terms of MW capacity, GWh generation and revenue (see comparison table at New Zealand electricity market).
Markets Its stock symbol on the Paris stock exchange is PARRO and the company is currently a member of the CAC Small 90.
In May 2014 at the annual AUVSI conference in Orlando, Parrot announced the AR Drone 3.0, code-named Bebop, permitting YouTube personality Kyle Tarpley from the YouTube channel "AR Drone Show w/ Kyle Tarpley" to live-stream video the day before the conference opened.
In 1994, Visionstream was established as a subsidiary of Telstra, to design and build its cable television network.
is a Dubai-based provider of intercity, intracity, B2B and B2G transportation products and services.
The design was rejected when Hafer was informed by a friend at the Pentagon that the image of Saint Michael standing on the neck of Satan was being used by white supremacists because of the resemblance to George Floyd's murder.
Generally, charging a vehicle at a Volta station was free, because Volta was supported by advertisements.
On September 17, 2019, amid growing investor concerns over its corporate governance, valuation, and outlook for the business, WeWork formally withdrew its S-1 filing and announced the postponing of its IPO.
Arrival plans to use 10,000 m2 (110,000 sq ft) "microfactories" to build their electric vehicles having developed a "skateboard" platform containing a drive train and batteries.
In May 2022, Golden Nugget Online Gaming was acquired by the fantasy sports contest and sports betting company DraftKings for $450 million in stock.
It primarily aims at mergers, capital stock exchanges, asset acquisitions, and reorganizations with one or more businesses.
At the same time a separate company, Sanlam Ltd, was installed as the parent company of the Sanlam group of businesses.
Ahold CEO Dick Boer became CEO of the merged company until his retirement in July 2018, with Frans Muller, CEO of Delhaize initially as deputy CEO and chief integration officer under supervision of Dick Boer.
In November 2008, Juventus announced that they would invest around €120 million to build a new ground, the Juventus Stadium, on the site of delle Alpi.
Controversies In 2023 Lifestance was sued by 15 former employees, in two separate suits, for allegedly breaking labor laws.
History The company started in 1979, when Michael Hill and his wife, Christine, opened their first store in the New Zealand town of Whangārei.
The doomed project sought to reduce the stadium capacity from 42,000 to just 7,500, which would have diminished the value of the stadium according to the Municipality Council.
In August 2017, it was announced that Paysafe would be sold to a consortium of The Blackstone Group and CVC Capital Partners for £2.96 billion, making it the largest private equity backed takeover of a London-listed company since the 2008 financial crisis.
Most revenue comes from pharmaceutical companies paying to advertise their drugs to individuals who have taken the website test and become members.
In January 2019, it launched its new 'Your Future SIPP', a fully digital product replacing its historical SIPP offerings.
HomeToGo is a Berlin-based company that combines a B2B Software & tech-enabled Service segment, HomeToGo_PRO, with an AI-powered B2C marketplace.
At the time, Ishbia claimed the decision was due to the practices of those companies, including working directly with realtors instead of mortgage brokers in securing home loans.
In January 2024, Lifestance paid $50m to settle a lawsuit from its shareholders that alleged the company misled investors about the retention rate of their clinicians.
In November 2021, Chorus Limited launched its “Big Fibre Boost” initiative, increasing its residential wholesale fibre 100 Mbps download/-level plan to 300 Mbps download and significantly boosting upload speed five-fold.
Despite that, GM released public information in March 2022 that they had sold off their "small investment" in Lordstown Motors at the end of 2021.
On 11 August, it was reported that Fletcher Building was expecting a loss of NZ$196 million for the year to June 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
A fourth motive is that DLCs do not necessarily require regulatory (anti-trust) consent and may not be constrained by the requirement of foreign investment approval.
Fraud allegations On 6 October 2021, a market research firm published a report accusing Ginkgo of embellishing its revenue in a complex scheme highly dependent on related-party transactions.
BYD has also invested in mining operations to secure consistent access to lithium and other essential raw materials.
In December 2017, French authorities investigated the payment system, which allowed hosts to receive their payments directly without having to first be deposited in their bank accounts, which could lead to the possibility of tax avoidance.
They are also used to eliminate both free chlorine and the more stable form, chloramine, from water solutions (e.g., drinking water from municipal sources).
This process can also give an added freshness and creaminess to the wine, and improve color and clarity.
In 1849 Frank, with William Carter and George Mason, built a ferry for crossing the Murray at Wellington.
Enologix's metrics have been correlated with market performance metrics, including 100-points critics' scores.
He was also active in California where he and fellow Austrian Manfred Krankl (who runs the Sine Qua Non winery) produced sweet wines under the label Mr.
There is the risk of valuable aromatic molecules being precipitated out along with the less desirable matter.
CNBC-18 (a TV channel) made a short story for the International Women's Day 2019 for special telecast.
The popularity of Côte-Rôtie has led to New World interpretations of this blend, most notably Australian Shiraz-Viognier blends, which are also produced by co-fermentation.
The process of stirring the lees or bâttonage can help prevent a thick layer of lees forming and promote a smoother autolysis.
Books Curso de vinos latinoamericanos y Curso de vinos españoles, 1992, in collaboration with José Antonio Sáez Illobre.
History The natural occurrence of fermentation means it was probably first observed long ago by humans.
Potts was born in Hounslow, England, the second child (their daughter Anne was born on 28 November 1812) of Elizabeth (who died before 1820) and Lawrence Potts (ca.1760 – 9 June 1845), a linen draper and later a bookseller.
Reference in rabbinic literature Adam in rabbinic literature enjoys a seudat nissuin with his wife Eve.
Titles and distinctions Knight of the National Order of Agricultural Merit Knight of Merit of the Italian Republic Bibliography Léo Drouyn, La Guyenne militaire, 2 vol, Bordeaux, 1865, Laffitte reprints, Marseille, 1977, p.
In the format of the chorale cantata cycle, an unknown librettist retained only the words of selected stanzas, here the first two and the last for movements 1, 2 and 6, but reworked the ideas of the other stanzas.
Corison Winery makes Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc, as well as a tiny amount of Gewürztraminer, Reisling and Rosé, and produces 3,000 cases a year.
John was the oldest of four siblings, and his mother and father Adolph had three other sons as well: Dolph, George, and Vernon.
In the second quarter are about 600 Metawileh in the third, 400 United Greeks.' In 1881, the PEF's Survey of Western Palestine (SWP) described it: "A large village of well-built houses, whose inhabitants are partly Christians, partly Moslems.
The cylinder rotates during the process to help homogenize the pressure that is placed on the grapes.
The treatment consists of heating the grapes with steam almost to boiling and then submitting them to a strong vacuum.
Lees stirring Also known as bâttonage, A process associated with sur lie aging where the lees are stirred up to extract flavor and other sensory components into the wine and to avoid reductive conditions that may contribute to various wine faults.
"Just the existence of stone vessels is not enough to prove that this is a biblical site." Several stone jars of the type described by the Gospel of John were found for instance in Jerusalem: "At least six of them stood in the basement kitchen of the [1st-century CE] 'Burnt house'.
An excessive concentration in the wort is not desirable however, as this may cause the production of a significant quantity of fusel alcohols, or spoilage of the finished beer by other organisms.
Champagne in bottles of 375 ml, 750 ml and 1.5 liters must be produced with the traditional method, but smaller and larger bottles are usually produced with the transfer method.
He afterwards would travel frequently to sell the family's wine, but would return to Mendocino County in the fall for the harvest.
The wines are sometimes obscure from remaining lees (except those which have been clarified by disgorging).
The estates were quickly sold to merchant Gabriel Dutoit but it was a great-grandson, Gideon Joubert, who bought him in 1915.
The monks preferred biblical banquet scenes because they desired the impression of dining with Christ.
According to journal reports, Mega Purple is used by almost every low- to moderate-value wine producer (below US$20 per 750 ml bottle) to help standardize the bottled product ensuring a more uniform product.
Yeast are unable to reproduce in an environment with 16-18% ABV; in an environment with multiple stressors the fermentation could get stuck even before the alcohol level reaches that point.
Over the years he was involved in a variety of businesses including real estate, travel, promotion and computers.
Champagne Charlie In 1852, Charles Heidsieck first visited the United States and toured the New England area and New York State.
Back has brought a number of new grape varietals to South Africa and is one of the country's original Rhône Rangers.
A portion of selected unfermented must may be kept as Süssreserve, to be added as a sweetening component before bottling.
It was a financial setback, as Haraszthy had expended large sums of money in gathering the vines and bringing them back to California.
Malolactic fermentation can aid in making a wine "microbiologically stable" in that the lactic acid bacteria consume many of the leftover nutrients that other spoilage microbes could use to develop wine faults.
However, the term does also apply to procedures that could be described as a second and distinct fermentation period.
Honours Oatley was awarded the British Empire Medal in 1984, for his service to the coffee industry in Papua New Guinea.
Charles-Henri was the nephew of Florens-Louis Heidsieck, co-founder of the Champagne house that eventually became Piper-Heidsieck, and cousin of Henri-Louis Walbaum and Pierre Auguste Heidsieck who founded the house that eventually became known as Heidsieck & Co Monopole.
Chaptalization is, however, prohibited in Argentina, Australia, California, Italy, Portugal, Spain and South Africa.
From 1998 until 2019, Mijares served as the coordinator and director of the Camps Guide to the Best Wines in Spain.
In wine, all 21 amino acids can be found in trace amounts with arginine, proline and glutamine being the most abundant.
They could observe the fermentation process which was often described as "boiling", "seething" or the wine being "troubled" due to release of carbon dioxide that gave the wine a frothy, bubbling appearance.
After having thrown five one-hitters for the Mets, including two games in which no-hit bids were broken up in the ninth inning, Seaver recorded a 4–0 no-hitter for the Reds in 1978 against the St.
The bladders, once removed from the fish, processed, and dried, are formed into various shapes for use.
At the Writers' Society, Rebreanu's motion was defeated after a clash of opinions, which almost resulted in the resignation of Society President Nicolae M.
Species of Lactobacillus that have been isolated from wine and grape must samples across the globe include L.
His surname is occasionally spelled "Bohune" or "Boone" and he is known for experimenting with some of Virginia's indigenous plants and minerals.
He sold most of his stake in Parducci Winer Cellars in 1973 when it was acquired by Teachers Managment Corporation, an investment group in Newport Beach.
References External links Official site of Château de Fargues http://www.lous-seurrots.com/ http://www.domaines-uza.fr/ http://www.europe1.fr/emissions/au-coeur-de-l-histoire/acdh-lintegrale-14112016-le-chateau-dyquem-2900117
242) being highly active against typical beverage spoiling microorganisms like yeast, bacteria, or mould.
This was a fact that led to considerable resentment on the part of the rebel free burghers, as they regarded Hattingh as a traitor to their cause as a result of it.
Free-run versus pressed juice For as long as presses have been used, winemakers have been aware of the different color, body and aroma characteristics of wine made from the "free-run" juice compared to pressed juice.
Measurement units In France and many other countries, the grape must density is often recalculated to show potential alcohol, the percent alcohol content that would be the result if the must were fermented to a completely dry wine.
The coming of Jesus' "hour" (verse 4) is also referred to in John 7:6, 30 and 8:20, meaning the hour of his glorification and his return to his father.
If both alcoholic and malolactic fermentation have run to completion, and neither excessive oxygen nor Brettanomyces yeast are present, this ought to cause no problems; modern hygiene has largely eliminated spoilage by bacteria such as acetobacter, which turns wine into vinegar.
From 1788 to 1791 the poet Robert Burns spent many an evening at Bacon's inn whilst travelling on his Excise duties.
DMDC is also used to stabilize non-alcoholic beverages such as carbonated or non-carbonated juice beverages, isotonic sports beverages, iced teas and flavored waters.
It is celebrated as a professional holiday by wine growers, falconers, gardeners, barrel-makers and innkeepers.
They aid in destroying the large polysaccharide molecule named pectin, which otherwise causes haze in fruit wines and juices.
bottom-right-quarter – a barefoot wine-servant pours the new, red wine into a serving ewer, from a large, ornate oenochoe, which earlier had been filled with water.
Career Before venturing into wine, Ukkonika was an employee of Ministry of finance, where she worked for 37 years.
Calibration is usually based on the ICUMSA tables, but the user of an electronic refractometer should verify this.
Wines Thackrey produced his first vintage in 1981, a Merlot/Cabernet Sauvignon blend named Aquila, which had an initial production of 190 cases (17 hl).
The richly-dressed bride wears red, and has her hair displayed at full-length, something that respectable women rarely did in public, except at weddings.
Champagne producers sometimes employ chaptalization in their winemaking when the wine is still in the form of must.
Although originally made exclusively from sturgeon, especially beluga, in 1795 an invention by William Murdoch facilitated a cheap substitute using cod.
In these instances the Military or College Chaplains can often provide independent preparation but the presiding minister needs to coordinate the process.
This autolysis of the cell provides an available nitrogen source for the still-fermenting and viable yeast cells.
The Dutch offered him the opportunity to settle in the Huguenot refugee community of South Africa, winemakers on whom Dutch merchants relied to supply their customers with wine in the Indian Ocean.
Sheen further suggests that as Jesus arrived with additional guests, they may have contributed to the wines running short.
The Fort Bragg Advocate-News stated he worked to improve quality, while making the wine "accessible and affordable." He was the first Mendocino County winemaker to put a varietal on the label.
Ukkonika started making wine on a small scale in 2000 inspired by her deceased son Godwin Ukkonika who initiated the wine making concept in the family.
After graduating, Pospíšilová worked at the Research Institute for Viticulture in Bratislava and at the at the Plant Production Research Institute in Borovce near Piešťany.
Life in Hungary Both Ágoston and Károly Haraszthy owned estates in a part of southern Hungary called the Bácska, now a part of Serbia.
In the production of white wines, maceration is either avoided or allowed only in very limited manner in the form of a short amount of skin contact with the juice prior to pressing.
In some modern use, particularly in American English, the term is also used as a synonym for "winemaker".
In response to the results of these tests, a winemaker can decide on appropriate remedial action, for example the addition of more sulfur dioxide.
This allows chaptalization in cooler states such as Oregon, or in states such as Florida where the native grape (Muscadine) is naturally low in sugar.
Prevention Among the most common techniques employed to minimize the chances of a stuck fermentation are using a cultured yeast strain with a high alcohol and high temperature tolerance, coupled by diligent control of the fermentation temperature.
Catherine however was able to sell the glass tumbler for a shilling to a customer, who purchased it as a memento.
Because of Koshu's growing international recognition, Yamanashi was able to use Koshu to achieve the highest Japanese wine production of any prefecture.
Governo is a winemaking technique reportedly invented in Tuscany in the 14th century to help complete fermentation and stabilize the wine.
In Jewish eschatology, the messiah will hold a seudat nissuin with the righteous of every nation, called a Seudat Chiyat HaMatim, and they will feast on the cooked flesh of the Leviathan.
Clarification and stabilization may involve fining, filtration, centrifugation, flotation, refrigeration, pasteurization, and/or barrel maturation and racking.
He was the chief executive officer (CEO) of Moët-Hennessy and LVMH, and is now the CEO of Société des bains de mer de Monaco.
His imprisonment sparked an international incident between France and US over what became known as The Heidsieck Incident.
The duration of fermentation affects the quality; longer fermentation preserves the wine's aromas better and gives finer and more durable bubbles.
He sued the new corporate managers to prevent a 35-acre vineyard, which he stated had better-than-average grape yields, from being ripped out.
Awards 2023: Award of the Mayor of Pezinok for an active life connected with cultural events in Pezinok and in the field of winemaking References == External links ==
He was the first producer to plant Viognier vineyards in the country, and has the largest plantings of Mourvèdre.
Back is also the owner of The Goats do Roam Wine Company and The Spice Route Winery, which is a wine cellar in the Swartland region of the Western Cape.
His tasks included delivering letters by hand to other local businesses and to fill the company's inkwells.
Shareholders forced Haraszthy out of the Vinicultural Society in 1867 and replaced him with another manager, who tore out all of his layered vines.
With Boston-based Spanish importer Jorge Ordóñez, Kracher created a winery in Málaga, Spain, making dry and sweet muscat wines from old hillside vineyards.
Around that date, Constantin Angelescu, Romania's Minister of Public Instruction, imposed state censorship on Pensiunea.
Their new home housed expensive paintings including examples by Millais, Gainsborough, George Romney J.
(23 February 1959 – 5 December 2007, in Illmitz) was one of the most successful winemakers of Austria, and was known under the nickname "Luis".
The "bready" toasty notes associated with some of the greatest sparkling wines made are the result of sur lie aging.
In the late 19th century, during the Franco-Prussian War (1870–71), The Wedding Feast at Cana was stored in a box at Brest, in Brittany.
Thackrey's particular expertise was in early photography, exhibition of which the gallery was an internationally renowned pioneer in.
In one section of the book, Ramses discovers the beautiful Hilda, who is a painter, a muse, and the living artwork of Egon Schiele, and who ends up being eaten alive by her creator; before this happens, Hilda, Schiele and Ramses become entangled in a sadomasochistic ménage à trois.
It is a common misconception that Campden tablets can be used to halt the ferment process in wine before all the available sugars are converted by the yeast, hence controlling the amount of residual sweetness in the final product.
After a stellar season, in which he pitched and won a game in the national tournament with a grand slam, USC head coach Rod Dedeaux awarded him a scholarship.
Together with Peter Bittner and photographer Ján Štrba, they are the authors of three books: the first edition of Pezinok – bigbeatown with a compilation CD (2001), Koncerty mladosti ´76, ´77 – Československý Woodstock (2007), and the second edition of Pezinok – bigbeatown (2024).
Some wine journalists contend that chaptalization allows wine makers to sacrifice quality in favor of quantity by letting vines overproduce high yields of grapes that have not fully ripened.
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
Kracher was the recipient of several prizes from various sources for best Austrian wine or winery of the year, sweet wine maker of the year and such, including "Winemaker of the Year" by the London-based Wine Journal six times.
Part of the reasons the owners gave was because she was too short and they believed she could not work in the wine cellar.
He also served as chairman of the Rishon Lezion branch of the Association of colonies, branch chairman of the Association of Rishon Lezion, member of the Maccabi Eretz Israel, and was a member of an organization headquarters defense.
Baldwin was chairman of Peet's until 2001 when Peet's went public, and he became a director of the company.
He is also former coordinator of hobby and artistic activities of SZM local organization in Pezinok, high school teacher and municipal councillor.
Grape-treading was widespread in the history of winemaking, but with the introduction of industrial methods, it now survives mostly as a recreational or competitive activity at cultural festivals.
The major symbol of ancient Greek art in Damaskinos's works was the consistent use of ancient Greek Cretan meander patterns.
The guild's anti-Bonciu lobby included poet George Gregorian (who declared both detainees to be "pseudo-writers") and the formerly accused Eliade (who included himself among the opponents of "pornographic literature").
Most Christian churches, including the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, have adopted the New Julian calendar since 1968.
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops recognizes that long distance preparation is sometime necessary due to military service or otherwise.
A few grapes are crushed between the fingers and the must is dripped onto the glass of the refractometer.
His father Adolph founded Parducci Wine Cellars in Ukiah in 1933, and John became lead winemaker in 1944.
Even among press juice there are compositional difference between the various "fractions" of juice produced from initial pressing through subsequent (and usually harsher) pressing.
Robert Ian Oatley (11 June 1928 – 10 January 2016) was an Australian businessman, winemaker, yachtsman and philanthropist.
Excessive phenols in base wine result in partial oxidation, which impairs the flavor and aroma of the final product.
These compounds can be considered "volatile" like aldehydes, ethyl acetate, ester, fatty acids, fusel oils, hydrogen sulfide, ketones and mercaptans or "non-volatile" like glycerol, acetic acid and succinic acid.
In 1971, Seaver led the league in earned run average (1.76) and strikeouts (289 in 286 innings) while going 20–10.
Use in Loire In the case of Loire valley wines, the designation SGN usually denotes wines that are extra sweet, and produced by one of the region's so-called "sugar hunters".
ISBN 978-84-8476-318-5.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) (with José Antonio Sáez Illobr, first published in 1995e) Colección de Guías de vinos y bodegas.
McNab Ridge Winery In 1999, he purchased the former Zellerbach Winery to found McNab Ridge Winery near Ukiah.
No container is ever completely drained, so some of the earlier product always remains in each container.
Since the early 13th century, most copies and editions of the Bible present all but the shortest of these books with divisions into chapters.
In the case of great Chardonnay, such as Montrachet, this adds a toasty, nutty "hazelnut" quality and additional depth and complexity.
Despite ordering the ships to take different routes in hopes that at least one would make it past the blockade, both ships were intercepted and sunk with all cargo destroyed.
According to the Catholic Encyclopedia, a tradition dating back to the 8th century identifies Cana with the modern Arab town of Kafr Kanna, at the foot of the Nazareth range, about 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) northeast of Nazareth.
On 17 February 1848 Frank married Augusta Wenzel (1830 – 21 November 1871) Their children included: Ann "Annie" (1851 – c.
San Francisco and San Mateo While attending the legislature, Haraszthy began to buy real estate near Mission San Francisco de Asís (Mission Dolores) in San Francisco.
Some genera, such as Acetobacter, can oxidize ethanol to carbon dioxide and water using Krebs cycle enzymes.
Exceptional Mavrodafni vintages are released every 20 or 30 years: they are of minimal availability and expensive.
Unlike the German designation Trockenbeerenauslese (TBA), QGN is no official designation, but it could be thought of as the Alsatian equivalent of a high-grade TBA.
1860 (– 1 September 1935) of Blakiston on 6 June 1888; they remained at Bleasdale and ten of their children reached maturity.
Its name commemorates the event of the Wedding at Cana from the Gospel of John, thought by some Christians to have taken place on the site, during which Jesus performed his first miracle, by turning water into wine at the request or behest of Mary.
While stopping at Guadeloupe for water and supplies, the ship was attacked by Spanish warships and Bohun received a mortal wound.
Interpreted allegorically, the good news and hope implied by the story are in the words of the steward of the Feast when he tasted the good wine, "Everyone serves the good wine first, and then the inferior wine after the guests have become drunk.
He was married and had a son, Gerhard Kracher (born 1981), who at the time of Alois' death had been working in the family's wine business for a number of years.
He played for the New York Mets, Cincinnati Reds, Chicago White Sox, and Boston Red Sox from 1967 to 1986.
See also List of wine personalities References External links Sean Thackrey: wine-maker official site
Other wines include the Taurus Cline Vineyard Mourvèdre, Sirius Eaglepoint Ranch Mendocino County Petite Sirah and the Aquila Eaglepoint Ranch Mendocino County Sangiovese.
Setbacks during the American Civil War In 1861, Charles Heidsieck received news of the conflict breaking out in the United States Civil War.
Charles Heidsieck's imprisonment caused a diplomatic incident between the French and US government in what became known as the Heidsieck Incident.
The novel The Secret of Santa Vittoria and the film based on it, taking place in a wine-producing Italian town during WWII, include a grape treading scene which has a major role in the battle of wits between the townspeople and their German occupiers.
In this instance, he strictly followed the lines of Venetian painting exhibiting his superior craftsmanship as a painter capable of changing his style.
Biography Robert Oatley was born in the Sydney suburb of Mosman in 1928, the son of Geoffrey Oatley and Isabel "Jean" née Brown.
In later years A lack of coinage from the late 4th to early 5th centuries may indicate a decline in Khirbet Qana, but the town shows signs of expansion and growth during the Late Byzantine period (late 5th to 7th centuries).
Another potential cause is a combination of lack of oxygen and yeast nutrients found in the lipids suspended in grape solids.
Then he founded the village of Lamotte, before that of Bellingham, then in 1709 that of La Roque and a little later the domain of L'Ormarins, created by Jean Roy, another Huguenot from the Luberon and later bought by the billionaire Anton Rupert.
Any of these approaches has the potential to subtly or drastically affect the resulting flavor and quality of the wine.
The treatment consists of heating the grapes at 95 °C (203 °F) for several minutes with vapour and then submitting them to a strong vacuum.
The EU Scientific Committee on Food, the FDA in the United States and the JECFA of the WHO have confirmed the safe use in beverages.
Not much is known about Bohun's early life, but it is estimated that he was born in England between 1575 and 1585 and that he received his education at the University of Leyden in the Netherlands.
The 10,000 residents of Qana are primarily Shia although there is also a Melkite (Greek Catholic) Christian community in the village.
Instead of fire, a cooper may use steam to heat up the staves but this tends to impart less "toastiness" and complexity to the resulting wine.
Pospíšilová has developed 24 new varieties of grape that are grown in Slovakia, including Breslava, Děvín, Diamant, Dunaj, Helios, Hetera, Hron, Mars, Nitranka, Rimava, Rosa, Rubanka, Rudava, Torysa, and Váh.
Since the two fining agents act differently (on different haze-forming particles), they are not interchangeable, and some beers use both.
Galets roulés also serve to protect the vine and minimize soil erosion during the periods of strong winds that are known in the area as mistral.
In the French Baumé (Be° or Bé° for short) one Be° corresponds approximately to one percent alcohol.
Early life and education María Isabel Mijares was born in Mérida, where she had a "happy childhood" alongside her eight siblings.
The Israeli army claimed it was a mistake, stating that Hezbollah elements were located near the camp.
Secondary fermentation is a process commonly associated with winemaking, which entails a second period of fermentation in a different vessel than the one used to start the fermentation process.
However, Dominican scholar Jerome Murphy-O'Connor cautions that Cana is a very common name, with no known text offering any clue as to which of the dozen towns going by the name would be the correct one, and calls the common choice of Kafr Qanna near Nazareth "probably just a pious guess".
On rare occasions, the designation Quintessence de Grains Nobles (QGN) is seen for wines that significantly exceed the minimum requirements for SGN wines.
He built a modest home and began growing wheat and built "Travellers' Rest", a public house for the benefit of travellers on the way to the gold diggings, which he leased to one F.
Having termed himself an agnostic about terroir, he has also stated he is agnostic about global warming, adding, "The real story is a greater willingness to deal with cooler regions.
They, with father Lawrence and his second wife Elizabeth followed Frank to South Australia on the Fairfield, arriving in November 1840, though Elizabeth died on the voyage, on 8 October 1840.
Fellow archaeologist Shimon Gibson cast doubt on the value of such finds for identifying the town meant by John, since such vessels are not rare and it would be impossible to link a particular set of vessels to the miracle.
The instruments and lavish opulent clothing allow viewers the impression of the fashion trends of that era.
Heidsieck accepted the cotton as payment and attempted to smuggle the cotton out of the port in Mobile, Alabama with the use of two blockade runners.
Benefits Exposure to oxygen during production may improve wine, but the exposure must be limited: too much oxygen can lead to oxidation while too little can lead to reduction, either one leading to its associated wine faults.
In brewing and winemaking, free amino nitrogen (FAN) is a measure of the concentration of individual amino acids and small peptides (one to three units) which can be utilized by beer and wine yeast for cell growth and proliferation.
Another version of the story places the event at the Closeburn Kirk Bridge Inn where the landlady was Catherine Stewart Bacon's mother.
Vallejo warehouse fire A converted military bunker warehouse at Mare Island near Vallejo, California, was set ablaze by an arsonist on October 12, 2005, resulting in a loss of nearly 4,000 cases of Thackrey's wine.
Under French inheritance laws, vineyard holdings were often split until offspring owned no more than a single row of grapes, not enough to fill a barrel.
Baldwin served as director and founding chairman of the Technical Standards Committee of the Specialty Coffee Association of America; president of Association Scientifique Internationale pour le Café (ASIC); and chairman of the Coffee Quality Institute.
Winemakers began to use Enologix metrics to improve company performance without saying so to anyone.
Floral Terranes is a Long Island, New York, vintner that makes wines and ciders from foraged fruits.
463-014, 1988 Common Wine and Beer Finings Colloidal stabilisation of beer, The Brewer International, Jan 2002 Fining Agents for Wine Archived 2006-09-13 at the Wayback Machine, by J.R.
Modern Bleasdale In 1948 the brothers combined their inheritances into a company Bleasdale Vineyards Ltd.
In Bonciu's novels and his poetry, the sexual function is a tool of apparent liberation, man's only possible flight from existential despair.
Six years later, Thackrey, with Susan Thackrey and Cynthia Pritzker, opened the art gallery in San Francisco that became Thackrey & Robertson, by then in partnership with watercolorist Sally Robertson; the gallery remained operational until its closure in 1995.
The absence of oxygen in this anaerobic process allows the acetaldehyde to be eventually converted, by reduction, to ethanol.
Thackrey was uncertain what grape varieties were in the field blend, and vineyard tests by researchers at UC Davis were inconclusive.
At the time it showed a portrait and only when the overpainting was removed did the tempera painting of the wedding come to light.
Upon Bertrand's death on 19 December 1968, Alexandre took over management of d'Yquem until its takeover by LVMH in 1999.
Organic winemaking A style of winemaking using organically grown grapes and a minimum amount of chemical additives such as sulfur dioxide.
Nutritional needs of wine yeast In order to successfully complete a fermentation with minimum to no negative attributes being added to the wine, yeast needs to have the full assortment of its nutritional needs met.
Haraszthy, a legendary hunter, built a hunting lodge opposite his home, on a bluff in Roxbury overlooking the river.
Glăvan too sees an analogy between Sinidis' grim reflection on war and landscapes by "New Objectivity" master Otto Dix.
He is of the opinion that the majority of South African vineyards should be planted to more Mediterranean and Rhône style varietals, as opposed to the Bordeaux ones that have typically been favoured.
A hogshead of wine in the US holds 63 US gallons (52 imperial gallons; 240 litres); a hogshead of wine in the UK holds 300 litres (66 imperial gallons; 79 US gallons).
Methods and Innovations Enologix quality model has been used in Argentina, California, France, Long Island, Oregon, Washington to optimize taste quality to improve sales.
If fermentation of the main batch starts to slow or appears to be nearing stuck fermentation, the half dried grapes are added to the must which then gives the yeast cells a new source of sugar to enliven the batch.
It is a paraphrase of the Latin "Jesu dulcis memoria", a medieval hymn attributed to Bernard of Clairvaux, a meditation on Jesus as a comforter and helper in distress.
It turned out that the deeds were of land that accounted for a third of Denver, then a small village, which was soon to blossom into one of the largest and wealthiest cities of the American West.
As noted by the Surrealist writer Sașa Pană, this came shortly after the Romanian Academy, through the voice of conservative author Ioan Alexandru Brătescu-Voinești, had openly demanded jail terms for both Bonciu and Bogza.
The light/dark boundary, whose position is proportional to the critical angle, is sensed by a CCD array.
Dendrochronological analysis has proven conclusively that it was painted a little before 1500 Provenance A wedding-feast by or after Bosch belonged to the Rubens collection in Antwerp.
In 1930, Ostashinski returned to Mandatory Palestine and worked as a winemaker in a winery in Rishon LeZion.
In 1992, Seaver was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in his first year of eligibility, receiving the highest percentage of votes ever recorded at the time.
If the wine is left in contact with the lees, enzymes start to break the cells down producing mannoproteins (mannose-containing glycoproteins) and polysaccharides that are released into the wine.
While Jesus stayed in Jerusalem for the Passover feast, he performed various unrecorded signs (Greek: σημεια, sēmeia) or miracles, and many "believed in His name".
California Across the plains Like many others, Haraszthy was excited by news of the discovery of gold in California in 1848, and by the end of that year he completed plans to leave Wisconsin.
oeni is often the LAB most desired by winemakers to complete malolactic fermentation, the process is most often carried out by a variety of LAB species that dominate the must at different points during fermentations.
Baldwin Wines, a zinfandel and petite sirah grower and producer located in Sonoma Valley, California.
In 2007 Enologix made the first Classification of Napa Valley American Viticultural Areas-to TASTE³ which brings together more than forty of the most compelling writers, thinkers, chefs, winemakers, journalists, artisans, and executives as speakers.
Andromeda was Thackrey's first commercial Pinot noir varietal, and his first wine from fruits exclusively from Marin County.
She then was winemaker for Yverdon before joining Chappellet Vineyard - in 1980 - as head winemaker, working there for almost ten years.
History Upon immigrating to Southern Africa in 1692, Hans Heinrich Hattingh started farming at a place that would become known as La Motte.
Background Ukkonika's father, the late Ludovic Kasibante, was a known wine trader and first licensed distiller of local waragi (gin in Uganda) and had a big bar in Rukungiri district when Ukkonika was an infant, this is where her interest in wine making stemmed from.
The couple will have six sons and five daughters, one of whom will be the grandfather of Boer general Petrus Jacob Joubert, who will be minister of justice of Transvaal, one of the first shareholders of gold mines and candidate for the presidency of the Republic, beaten by Paul Kruger.
Specific oxidation reactions occur through oxidative fermentation, which creates vinegar as a byproduct.
In 1797, soldiers of Napoleon's French Revolutionary Army plundered the picture as war booty during the Italian campaigns of the French Revolutionary Wars (1792–1802).
She started producing wine in her garage at home, she later rented a place in muyenga(a Kampala suburb) where she stored the wine in 200 liter drums, she then rented in Wandegeya, another busy city suburb where the main offices are currently.
Racking, often referred to as Soutirage or Soutirage traditionnel (meaning racking in French), also filtering or fining, is the process of moving wine or beer from one container to another using gravity rather than a pump, which can be disruptive to the beverage.
According to Oz Clarke, "traditionally the wine is 'racked' or drawn from barrel or tank to another empty one on a number of occasions (called soutirage).
Yeast is often inoculated in a volume of water or grape must that is 5–10 times the weight of the dry yeast.
In 2005, the Writers' Union magazine România Literară published samples of Bonciu's poetry, within a special avant-garde issue.
200 BCE – 650 CE), including a structure that bears similarities to Roman-period synagogues, and several mikveh pools for Jewish ceremonial bathing.
Occasionally voicing opinions contrary to conventional belief, Thackrey did not consider terroir to be the most important element in creating fine wine, having said, "I'm not saying terroir doesn't exist, there are just a lot of other things going on".
Vin jaune French for "yellow wine", a wine fermented and matured under a yeast film that protects it, similar to the flor in Sherry production.
Measuring must weight Must weights are commonly measured in the vineyard to monitor the ripeness of the grapes, which helps select the time of harvest.
A cheaper mass-market variety (balsamic vinegar of Modena), also from the provinces of Modena and Reggio Emilia, is protected as a European protected geographical indication (PGI).
A racking cane is a rigid tube, often bent or L-shaped, that is attached to the racking hose to make racking easier.
In 1901 the current facade was built, and September 30, 1906, Bishop Angelo Roncalli consecrated the altar.
Whether the use of a nonkosher isinglass renders a beverage nonkosher is a matter of debate in Jewish law.
The taxonomy of the genus Torulaspora is evolving rapidly, and the availability of molecular tools to discriminate Torulaspora species will help correcting errors in species assignments.
Fairview Estate is a third-generation family-owned farm, located on the slopes of the Paarl Mountain in the winelands of the Western Cape.
While Pasteur did notice an acid reduction in wine with the lactic bacteria, he did not link that process to a consumption of malic acid by the bacteria, but rather assumed it was just tartrate precipitation.
Beginning in 2017, Mijares served as technical director of wine activities for the Real Casino of Madrid.
During his MLB career, he compiled 311 wins, 3,640 strikeouts, 61 shutouts, a 2.86 earned run average, and he threw a no-hitter in 1978.
George Thomas Seaver (November 17, 1944 – August 31, 2020), nicknamed "Tom Terrific" and "the Franchise", was an American professional baseball pitcher who played 20 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB).
This car was not grey but after that one, other expensive cars followed, and they were all in her shade of grey.
Wedding at Cana also known as Wedding Feast at Cana and Le Nozze di Cana is an oil painting by Michael Damaskinos.
Manual riddling is still done for some Prestige Cuvées in Champagne, but has otherwise been largely abandoned because of the high labour costs.
Video footage of the 11th century Dalgarnock Kirk site and burial ground 'Crichope Linn - Devil's Cauldron, Burley's Leap and the Souter's Seat.
These courses are designed to prepare couples with a better understanding of each other and of the sacrament of marriage.
Since French oak must be split, only 20 to 25% of the tree can be utilized; American oak may be sawn, which makes it at least twice as economical.
Other processes One classical method of maceration is grape treading or pigeage, where grapes are crushed in vats by barefoot workers.
In his early 40s Bob bought this Papuan Division of the Colyer company from his employer and changed its name to Angco.
Parducci and his brothers in 1964 took over the winery operations, and became known for Mendocino wines such as Zinfandels, Petite Sirahs, and Cabernets.
Service and trade institutions The number of service and trade institutions in the town are estimated to be in the region of 263, dealing mainly in the fabric trade and clothing (26), food products (51), household items (14), and bakeries and butcheries (12).
Must weight is a measure of the amount of sugar in grape juice (must) and, hence, indicates the amount of alcohol that could be produced if it is all fermented to alcohol, rather than left as residual sugar.
Harvest experience tours can be a fun and educational way to learn about the winemaking process and to see behind the scenes at a working winery.
That style of wine press would eventually evolve into the basket press used in the Middle Ages by wine estates of the nobility and Catholic Church.
Description The purpose of marriage preparation, Pre-Cana, under canon law is to make sure that people are free to marry and have the capacity to marry.
It can be used in various non-alcoholic as well as alcoholic drinks like wine, cider, beer-mix beverages or hard seltzers.
The Wedding Church at Cana (Arabic: كنيسة الزفاف في كنا; Hebrew: כנסיית החתונה) or simply Wedding Church, also Franciscan Wedding Church, is a religious building of the Catholic Church located in the central part of the town of Kafr Kanna (Cana), in Lower Galilee, located in northern Israel.
The Marriage Feast At Cana is a painting that was formerly attributed to the Early Netherlandish master Hieronymus Bosch.
See also Ain Qana, municipality in Southern Lebanon northeast of Qana References Bibliography External links Survey of Western Palestine, Map 1: IAA, Wikimedia commons Qana Archived 28 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Localiban
Bach composed the cantata in his second year as Thomaskantor in Leipzig as part of his chorale cantata cycle, for the Second Sunday after Epiphany.
In 1981 he started working part-time as a winemaker in the winery of his father Alois Kracher Senior (born 1929), and from 1986 this became a full-time activity for Alois, with focus on sweet wines.
From the Greeks, the Romans in ancient Rome also used the condensed must in cooking, as a sweetener.
She became the chair of the board taking valuable advice from her husband's secretary who understood the business.
Awards and acknowledgements 2011, San Francisco Chronicle Winemaker of the Year References External links Cathy Corison on X Official website
Use today The only classical Old World wine region where co-fermentation is still widely practiced is now the Côte-Rôtie appellation of northern Rhône, while the use of white varieties in red Rioja and Tuscany wine has more or less disappeared.
Campden tablets (potassium or sodium metabisulfite) are a sulfur-based product that are used primarily to stabilize wine, cider and in beer making to kill bacteria and to inhibit the growth of most wild yeast.
Bacon's brother-in-law, his wife's brother, was William Stewart (1749-1812), son therefore of the innkeepers at Closeburn Kirk Bridge.
Alois Senior continued to work in the vineyards while Alois Junior was in charge of winemaking and overall management.
Moving head press This press is essentially a basket press that has been turned on it sides with two heads at opposite ends providing more homogenous pressure as it moves horizontally towards the compacting cake.
delbrueckii species has been domesticated for winemaking and other human uses about 1900 and 4000 years ago respectively.
Unlike an "arrested fermentation", where the winemaker intentionally stops fermentation (such as in the production of fortified wines), a stuck fermentation is an unintentional and unwanted occurrence that can lead to the wine being spoiled by bacteria and oxidation.
Born the eighth of nine siblings, he was the son of Amédée de Lur Saluces, and of Eléonore de Chabannes la Palice, niece of Bertrand de Lur Saluces and the daughter of Eugène de Lur-Saluces.
It is believed that the practice may also have been adopted because it was found empirically to give deeper and better colour to wines, which is due to improved co-pigmentation resulting from some components in white grapes.
According to the same statistics of 1860, Odesa produced 32 thousand barrels of wine, colonists and state peasants – more than 40 thousand barrels each, and landowners – approximately 5 thousand barrels.
This differs from the more common practice of blending separate wine components into a cuvée after fermentation.
Others, such as John Williams, winemaker for Frog's Leap Winery, has stated that the need for its use is evidence of poor viticulture and/or winemaking.
This grape lends itself well to the production of simple, fruity wines and Beaujolais winemakers have been able to create a unique identity based on this distinctive style.
The first is the "interruption" method, whereby the primary alcoholic fermentation is interrupted by the act of bottling.
New Testament In the New Testament, Jesus tells two parables about a seudat nissuin called the Parable of the Wedding Feast and the Parable of the Great Banquet.
Remontage French term for the process of pulling out wine from underneath the cap of grape skins and then pumping it back over the cap in order to stimulate maceration.
Arriving in New Orleans on 5 May 1862, he found that the city had fallen to Union forces and was immediately seized upon his arrival by General Benjamin F.
He also serves on the board of directors of the Compagnie de Transports Financière et Immobilière, Banque J.
The acropolis at Khirbet Qana, however, was again occupied most likely from the late 7th century through the early 8th century, as evidenced by Arab pottery found across the area, as well as renovations to the public building on the acropolis, and an early Islamic fragment of pottery.
This controversy was in effect sparked by culture critic Nicolae Iorga and his Neamul Românesc journal.
After his military service from 1959 to 1962, and experience working at a variety of companies, his uncle Bertrand marquis de Lur Saluces, taught him the family business of winemaking.
Webster's Third International Dictionary shows from lia, "probably of Celtic origin, akin to Old Irish lige (bed), Gaulish legasit (he laid) and Welsh llaid (mud)." Normally, the wine is transferred to another container (racking), leaving this sediment behind.
In 1989, he received the World of Wine award, "Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in Winemaking." After being ousted from Parducci Wine Cellars in 1994 by the owners, in 1999 he founded McNab Ridge Winery near Ukiah.
Career After returning to Rishon LeZion, Ostashinski became director of the agricultural department of the Farmers Association, and director of the department of rehabilitation grower Citrus Marketing Board.
As part of a larger pattern of sexism in the wine industry at the time, many women worked in labs and weren't allowed to be winemakers.
See also Oenology Vignerons indépendants de France Viticulture Wine fraud Winemaking cooperative References External links Media related to Winemakers at Wikimedia Commons
Base wine is a type of still wine produced in the first stage of fermentation during the production of sparkling wines and brandies.
The first Rolls-Royce that she bought was a 1920 Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost and she appeared with it in July 1922 in "Australian Motor Owner" magazine.
Sélection de Grains Nobles (SGN) is French for "selection of noble berries" and refers to wines made from grapes affected by noble rot.
Rather than being a separate, second fermentation, this is most often one single fermentation period that is conducted in multiple vessels.
In 1967 she began studying oenology at the Institute of Oenology of the University of Bordeaux in France after receiving a scholarship from the French government.
Local conditions on the shallow Lake Neusiedl, where the Kracher vineyards are situated, are conducive to the development of Botrytis cinerea (the fungus responsible for noble rot).
Trifon Zarezan (Bulgarian: Трифон Зарезан) is a Bulgarian national custom observed on the 14 February (or the 1st in the Gregorian calendar) - in honor of Saint Tryphon.
ANNYO Award-2019 by a village based youth organization which works towards social harmony and protection of wild life.
Conventional alcoholic fermentation involves crushing the grapes to free the juice and pulp from the skin with yeast serving to convert sugar into ethanol.
Berkeley, California: Regional Oral History Office, Bancroft Library, University of California, 1992.
and a great grandson of James Oatley, Lord Mayor of Sydney and a Member of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales.
See also Dimethyl carbonate References External links Dimethyl dicarbonate at EPA SRS Dimethyl dicarbonate technical data at FAO Dimethyl dicarbonate and microbiological stability Archived 2015-09-24 at the Wayback Machine
Grape varieties As of August 1, 2008, the range of vineyards in the Odesa Region is represented by 82 varieties, including 42 technical (for wine production) and 40 table varieties.
She studied biology at Pomona College and was on their men's diving team, because the school didn't have a women's team.
Upon his arrival, he was informed by his sales agent that a new law passed by Congress aimed at absolving Northerners from having to give payment for cotton purchased from the South, also absolved the agent from having to pay his debt to Heidsieck.
In the 1960s, these winemakers found it easier to create starter cultures in media that contained apple or tomato juice.
Rather than being crushed in a wine press or by another mechanized method, grapes are repeatedly trampled in vats by barefoot participants to release their juices and begin fermentation.
In the 1840s, the German wine industry was hard hit by severe weather that created considerable difficulty for harvesting ripened grapes in this cool region.
This fermentation process brings out intense aromas, with a taste profile akin to red wine and whisky.
In his capacity as a private contractor, he built a jail for the city of San Diego, which was completed in 1851.
Wine was being made at least as long ago as 4000 BC; in 2011, a winepress was unearthed in Armenia with red wine dated 6,000 years old.
The consensus of modern scholarship is that the Fourth Gospel was addressed to a group of Jewish Christians, and very possibly a group living in Judea province; so it is unlikely that the evangelist would have mentioned a place that did not exist.
Torulaspora delbrueckii was formerly known as Saccharomyces delbrueckii or Saccharomyces rosei or Saccharomyces roseus, and the anamorph is called Candida colliculosa (for a complete list of synonyms, see CBS's website).
He bought Hamilton Island, Queensland in 2003 for $200 million, he also owned retirement homes and a villa in Sardinia, Italy.
Career and winemaking philosophy Charles Back studied winemaking at Elsenburg Agricultural College in Stellenbosch.
Prudence Kasibante Ukkonika is a Ugandan Agri business entrepreneur, she is the managing director of K-Roma limited an indigenous business entity manufactures, packages and distributes Bella wine, natural fruit concentrates, juices and Teas in Uganda.
In folklore tradition, Trifon Zarezan is the first of a series of consecutive feasts called Trifontsi - Trifonovden (February 1), Midsummer (February 2) and St.
This is well suited to the Grenache variety that is widely grown and is the base of much of the red wines produced in the region.
Zinfandel controversy The claim that Haraszthy brought the first Zinfandel vines to California is a subject of controversy.
“Agoston Haraszthy de Mokcsa,” in Allen Johnson and Dumas Malone (eds.) Dictionary of American Biography, Vol.
During fermentation, higher temperatures and higher alcohol levels can encourage this process with the alcohol acting as a solvent to assist in the breakdown of the organic compounds within the grape materials.
Some countries, such as Australia and New Zealand, have wine labeling laws that require the use of fining agents that may be an allergenic substance to appear on the wine label.
This is the Latin form of the name, which was used in official government business and in Catholic Church records in Hungary.
Gladys Penfold Hyland CBE born Gladys Lethbridge (17 March 1886 – 11 July 1974) was an Australian businesswoman and collector of antiques.
AYA Award-2018 by Apatani youth Association - This is a 40 years old youth organization of Ziro Valley.
Activated carbon can remove benzenoid compounds and all classes of polyphenols non-specifically, either completely or partially, thus decolorizing and deodorizing juices and wines.
In 2017, Back was awarded the 1659 Wine Industry Medal of Honour 2017 and the South African Farmer of the Year 2017.
Alexandre de Lur Saluces, La morale d'Yquem, Entretiens avec Jean-Paul Kauffmann, Bordeaux, Mollat, 1999.
Parker, Jr., who awarded 98 points or higher on his famous 100-point scale to several of Kracher's wines.
The discerner of hearts (verses 23–25) The chapter ends with a brief section which the New King James Version subtitles "The Discerner of Hearts" (John 2:23–25).
Two years later, before the start of World War II, he self-published his third poetry collection, called Brom ("Bromine").
Autolysis in winemaking relates to the complex chemical reactions that take place when a wine spends time in contact with the lees, or dead yeast cells, after fermentation.
The popularity of Koshu had been declining over the years, with the area under cultivation in Yamanashi Prefecture declining by over 50% and reaching a low in 2010.
the echoes of writers translated by Bonciu (Altenberg, Petzold, Wildgans), but also from other such sources, including Hille.
They are often larger, rounded stones that have been smoothed by both glacial and fluvial actions over time and deposited in the region by the Rhône.
In Papadima's account, they abused the notion of artistic liberty, as embodied by the "high art" of Baudelaire.
In the following year, she gave a collection valued at £200,000 to the National Gallery of South Australia.
Translation error types and resultant humour Below are some components of linguistic stimulus theories that attempts to explain the way humour might be derived from translations, as adapted from "Accidental Humor in International Public Notices Displayed in English" by M.
Linguistic Imperialism is a book written by Robert Phillipson, research professor at Copenhagen Business School's Department of English, published in 1992 by Oxford University Press.
Word lists Ogden's word lists include only word roots, which in practice are extended with the defined set of affixes and the full set of forms allowed for any available word (noun, pronoun, or the limited set of verbs).
I am creator of a universal language called panlingua based on numbers and astrology that will help people know each other better.
First published in 1985 and then again with an addendum in 1992, it includes pronunciation, grammar and vocabulary.
Zangezi speaks significant words, but human beings are ignorant to understand him: Velimir Khlebnikov and Futurism Velimir Khlebnikov invented new words in the play: birds language, words of sky, and 'beyonsense'.
See also Argot Pig Latin Tutnese or Double Dutch, similar rules Ubbi dubbi Javanais Gibberish == References ==
The vowel of the past tense is sometimes written ⟨é⟩ and sometimes ⟨e⟩, suggesting that the accent is merely a reminder that the letter is not silent, rather than marking a distinct vowel.
See also Characteristica universalis Engineered language Ideal language philosophy Linguistic philosophy Natural semantic metalanguage References Bibliography Umberto Eco, The Search for the Perfect Language, 1993.
English-language post on Jeringonza — a language game equivalent of Pig Latin used in some Romance Languages.
Arturo Alfandari (8 June 1888 – 1 May 1969) was a Belgian diplomat, known as the creator of the constructed language Neo.
After the takeover of the website, the owner regained control in 2022 making the site available through a Tor network endpoint until 2023.
See also An Essay Towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language Philosophical language References == Sources ==
First Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1879-1880.
Traditional Chinese poetic forms such as shi and fu have been achieved; however, achieving Tang-era tone patterns highly depends on the Chinese topolect and syllable in use.
After the war he settled in Belgium, where he worked as an exporter before eventually becoming a diplomat for the Belgian state.
Vocabularies of oligosynthetic languages are made of compound words, which are coined from a small (theoretically minimal) set of morphemes.
It is true that the nationalism of oppressed peoples – as a natural self-defensive reaction – is much more excusable than the nationalism of peoples who oppress; but, if the nationalism of the strong is ignoble, the nationalism of the weak is imprudent; both give birth to and support each other".
2, and reprinted under the title Boontling, or the strange Boonville language by the Mendocino County Historical Society in 1967.
The Yugtun or Alaska script is a syllabary invented around the year 1900 by Uyaquq to write the Central Alaskan Yup'ik language.
leche → chele (milk, used primarily to refer to semen) libro → broli (book) e.g., (usually plural) "¡Che, agarrá los brolis más seguido!" (Dude, get the books and learn something!) amigo → gomía (friend) e.g., "¡Eh!, ¡¿qué hacés gomía?!" (Hey!
As the Eldar eventually discovered in their dealings with the Naugrim, they could speak with their voices but at the same time by ‘gesture’ convey to their own folk modifications of what was being said.
Etymological studies Many entirely coincidental word similarities have been documented and regularly occur between languages regardless of how related or unrelated the languages may be; these are commonly disregarded in the academic study of etymology.
The form has been compared to Oulipian potential literature, being compared to Alphabetical Africa by Walter Abish and A Little Illustrated ABC by George Perec, but is distinguished by the Han script bypassing the need for phonetic priming to achieve successful meaning.
The flag was created in 2016 by Reddit user u/clausangeloh, and it uses a color palette of #00bbff and #ffffff .
In the introduction and first part, Schor introduces her first experiences with Esperanto, and gives a synopsis of its history.
NavBharati is a TrueType sans-serif font which supports transliteration of the Devanagari, Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam scripts.
The script borrows characters and concepts from multiple scripts including the Latin script, Devanagari, Tamil script, Telugu script, Kannada script, Malayalam script, and the Bengali–Assamese script.
Finally, the fourth section describes the concepts and language relating to mass, space, and motion.
He (as he/she then is) is caged in "The Mask Factory", and his captors fear him much more than any of their other creations.
The Plight of the Woman and the Rape of Truth: (The Inventist-Temporarist-Everybodist-Nikedist-Feminist Manifesto) (1973).
The digraphs are: Grammar The definite article for all genders is in the singular la and in the plural las but the form la can be valid for the plural.
Ebbe Vilborg (1926–2018) was a Swedish philologist of classical languages, Esperantist, lexicographer, terminologist and interlinguist.
ROILA has a syntax that allows it to be useful for many different kinds of robots, including the Roomba, and Lego Mindstorms NXT.
An example of phono-semantic rhyming slang is the Cockney sorrowful tale 'jail', in which case the person coining the slang term sees a semantic link, sometimes jocular, between the Cockney expression and its referent.
They are notable for evolving from a pictographic system to a semi-syllabary in the space of fourteen years, from 1896 to 1910.
Neo His proposal for Neo, an international auxiliary language, was developed in the 1930s and first presented in 1961.
Gibson of the United States Army Coastal Artillery, which replaces words with numbers using the digits 0-9.
The people of Mărgău traditionally worked with glass for centuries, making mirrors, windows and religious icons and selling them to other parts of the country such as Bucharest, the capital of Romania, or Brăila and Constanța.
Most grammatical meaning is expressed through particles that precede the words they modify, such as é (plural), ng (present progressive), lá (perfective aspect), and kà (volitive).
The digits 0-9 are used in modern writing, but the signs for larger numbers are falling into disuse.
Subsequently, Salo provided similar services as the Tolkien language consultant for The Hobbit film trilogy.
Waldemar Rosenberger, (Russian: Владимир Карлович Розенбергер, Vladimir Karlovich Rozenberger, 1848–1918) from Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire, became director of the International Volapük Academy in 1892.
This progresses to multiplication, division, variables, and constants, then propositional logic, set theory, and first-order logic.
Simultaneous with, and independently from Tokai, Levente Zoltán Király made significant progress in describing some structural elements of the code.
1940: Road to Singapore, starring Bing Crosby and Bob Hope, features a song with Esperanto lyrics sung by a chorus of natives of Kaigoon, a fictional island in the East Indies.
Most spellings were not formalized until the 1970s, primarily by the writings of Jack (Wee Fuzz) June.
Expanding cultural awareness amongst peers will improve cultural empathy, fluency, and awareness amongst ethnic groups that are present.
Personal pronouns take gender in a, and may drop their characteristic i ending when they do, just as nouns may drop their o: mi "I", masculine ami or am, feminine mai or ma; ti "thou", masc.
Monosyllabic words ending in consonant clusters which end in -r or -l are pronounced with an epenthetic vowel same as the last vowel (llifr pronounced as llifir /ˈɬiːvɪɾ/, see above).
The language was further developed by David and Jessie Peterson for the films Dune (2021) and Dune: Part Two (2024).
Letters Warang Citi is quite distinct from other writing systems of India, and it has features of an abugida and an alphabet.
For example, Pig Latin, Ubbi Dubbi, and Tutnese could all be in the "English" category, and Jeringonza could be in the "Spanish", ("Portuguese", or "Italian") category.
In the singular this will be different from the final vowel of the word; the plural is formed by making it the same as the final vowel.
Plateau Sign Language, or Old Plateau Sign Language, is a poorly attested, extinct sign language historically used across the Columbian Plateau.
As a constructed language, it can be classified as a highly naturalistic a priori language: apart from loan words from European languages, the basic vocabulary and the grammar are unique.
For instance, q and Q represent different voiceless uvular consonants, the voiceless uvular affricate and the voiceless uvular plosive, respectively.
Onset clusters such as tw are similar to affricates: both consonants are placed in the triangle, though some spacial adjustment may be necessary.
Konráð Gíslason (1808–91), professor in Old Scandinavian languages at the University of Copenhagen, published the first Danish–Icelandic dictionary in 1851.
Today, the books (and subsequent films) are so well known in Sweden, and also in Norway, that the language is part of the culture of schoolchildren.
Proposed subdivisions Historically, the term "North Slav" has been used in academia since at least the first half of the 19th century.
Death Zamenhof died in Warsaw on 14 April 1917, possibly of a heart attack, and was buried at the Okopowa Street Jewish Cemetery.
This underscores the importance of nonverbal communication in shaping the quality and success of interpersonal relationships.
For example, Ubbi Dubbi, Bicycle, and Allspråket all work by inserting a code syllable before the vowel in each syllable.
Compounds are used to specify clusivity: mimi "we" (exclusive), timi "we" (inclusive informal: thou/ye & I), vimi "we" (inclusive formal: you & I).
For instance, if someone says they are happy while displaying a frown, the mixed signals may cause the listener to doubt the sincerity of the verbal message.
This model is argued as being more appropriate and linguistically accurate than the triple dissection of east, west and south.
The Australian television show Spicks and Specks had a contest called "Turning Japanese" which used RTT on song lyrics.
(...) I know that this orthographic form has displeased several of Novial's old and faithful friends, but it is my impression that many others have applauded it.
In addition, the character metrics use a specific layout where the usual baseline is not used, and the ideographic em-square is not relevant for Bliss character designs that use additional "earth line" and "sky line" to define the composition square.
Phase C The third system, called Nyi Nyi Nfa' after its first three characters, was developed around 1902.
Langmaker is a website run by Jeffrey Henning that acts as a database of conlangs, neographies, and other resources related to conlanging and conworlding.
Similarly, The Sweeney (1975–78) alludes to the phrase "Sweeney Todd" for "Flying Squad", a rapid response unit of London's Metropolitan Police.
Moreover, Ogden assumed that any student should already be familiar with (and thus may only review) a core subset of around 200 "international" words.
It is likely that it influenced Volapük, Esperanto, and other language projects of the 19th century.
Gottfried Leibniz created lingua generalis (or lingua universalis) in 1678, aiming to create a lexicon of characters upon which the user might perform calculations that would yield true propositions automatically; as a side effect he developed binary calculus.
'Then the throne is for him.' The merged form czesztot 'it is, that is' begins a sentence: Czesztot Tintin.
Salo on Tolkien's languages Enthusiast Salo's interest in Tolkien's languages arose when he read Tolkien's works as a boy.
Baldauf describe the sectors' six principal goals: To choose the languages which should be taught within the curriculum.
Modern Hebrew used Biblical Hebrew morphemes, Mishnaic spelling and grammar, and Sephardic pronunciation.
By the time of the book's publication, Schor had been part of the Esperanto community for seven years.
It then introduces means for measuring durations, referring to moments in time, and talking about past and future events.
Andreas Moehn – Lalaith's Guide to Adûnaic Grammar Thorsten Renk's Ni-bitha Adûnâyê Adûnaic from Almavarno in Italian Archived 2019-04-20 at the Wayback Machine
(Higley (2007) finds probable correspondences for two other words.) "O orzchis Ecclesia, girded with divine arms, and adorned with hyacinth, you are the caldemia of the wounds of the loifols, and the city of sciences.
Portmann & Odermatt (1986) Higley (2007), Hildegard of Bingen's Unknown Language: An Edition, Translation, and Discussion, the entire Riesencodex glossary, with additions from the Berlin MS, translations into English, and extensive commentary.
Participles Participles are formed with mɛ-, further derived as nouns or adjectives (gerunds): mɛpini 'determinative', ɛmɛwako 'driver' (wako to drive).
Personal pronouns Verbal systems The grammars of Novial and Ido differ substantially in the way that the various tenses, moods and voices of verbs are expressed.
'Axes + Dwarves' "Axes of the Dwarves" the axes belong to the dwarves, Khazad-dûm 'Dwarves + Delving' "Dwarrowdelf", a Dwarvish delving.
The script was launched with significant publicity especially with an audience from Malawian Minister of Youth, Sports and Culture, Mr Kamangadazi Chambalo, was quoted as saying: Mwangwego script is in itself history in the making.
It is unique to the village and not spoken in the other villages that form part of the commune of Sântimbru, to which Totoi belongs.
History The IMWA was originally designed for describing sign language and consequently was named Sutton's Sign Symbol Sequence (SSS) by its inventor, Valerie Sutton.
However, other Quechua linguists argued that a three-vowel system was more faithful to the phonology of Quechua.
The IALA continued to publish materials in and about Interlingua until 1953, when its activities were taken up by the new Interlingua Division of Science Service.
In Margin Call (2011), Will Emerson, played by London-born actor Paul Bettany, asks a friend on the telephone, "How's the trouble and strife?" ("wife").
Comedy career Unwin's early career and training introduced him to wireless and radio communication, and this, coupled with work in the BBC's War Reporting Unit from about 1944, ultimately proved to be his passage into the media.
Zamenhof's grandson through Adam, Louis-Christophe Zaleski-Zamenhof, lived in France from the 1960s until his death in 2019, and whose daughter, Margaret Zaleski-Zamenhof, is still active in the Esperanto movement.
For example, the word for "people" in Unamunda is "peephole" and the word for "carry" is "cargo." A full translation of all the words can be found here.
ESF sponsors also a number of other events, including the Nitobe Symposia, a conference series on world language problems that bring together activists, academics and politicians.
Bos found the letter mentioned in a summary of autographs kept by Haverford College in Haverford, Pennsylvania.
Becker (New York: Harcourt, Brace, & World) See also Americanist phonetic notation § Pike Wycliffe Global Alliance References Further reading Brend, Ruth M.
List of personal pronouns: i, tu, he, ce, je, nu, vu, lu = "I, you (singular), he, she, it, we, you (plural & polite form), they".
A diacritic that indicates vowel nasality, known as ingungwanyana, is provided specifically for the Tekela languages.
The Sociotechnicum In 1918, the Gordin Brothers issued a "Declaration of the First Central Sociotechnicum", a manifesto for the creation of "a special institution of social experimentation" dedicated to the proposition that "social apparatuses can be invented, perfected and cultivated artificially".
The personal pronouns are Singular me (I), tu / vu (you), il (he), el (she), it (it), lo (third person gender not defined).
He was among the founders of the Croatian Prosvjetni savez (Educational Alliance), of which he was the first secretary, and organized Esperanto institutions in Zagreb.
For example, the Icelandic-looking word eyðni, meaning "AIDS", is a phonosemantic match of the English acronym AIDS, using the existing Icelandic verb eyða ("to destroy") and the Icelandic nominal suffix -ni.
English is learned as the main international language, especially in view of the internationalization of the economy of Iceland with intensive trade and capital flows to and from the outside world.
Oduduwa has received support from other chiefs of Yorubaland in both countries as an adjunct to or possible replacement of the Latin script.
From sinta 'hundred', cognate with "cent", it would seem that there may be nasalized vowels, for in French the letters ⟨in⟩ represent a nasalized /ɛ/; that is, sinta is presumably to be pronounced [sẽta] or [senta], not *[sinta].
Serpent's Walk and Holocaust denial Barker wrote a sixth novel, Serpent's Walk, under the pseudonym Randolph D.
Little detailed information about Angoroj is available, except that the cast included some proficient Esperantists, including Raymond Schwartz, who also directed skits for Parisian Esperanto cabarets.
Phase F The sixth system, called A Ka U Ku after its first four characters, was developed around 1910.
See also Cultural imperialism English as a lingua franca Hegemony Linguistic imperialism References Sources
Despite resenting much of his strict religious upbringing, he continued to maintain a strong spiritual disposition, still believing in God while having no allegiance to any specific denomination.
Ithkuil, in particular, comes close to this ideal, with the vast majority of its morphemes being a single syllable, and sometimes even a single phoneme, in length.
The Google interface was translated into Kitara in February 2010 by the Faculty of Computing and IT, Makerere University.
If after using RTT, the resulting text is inaccurate, the source text can then be edited until a satisfactory result is achieved.
On computers running Microsoft Windows, the Adlam script received native support beginning with Windows 10 version 1903, which was released in May 2019.
Formatives and personal reference categories now have the option to carry Effect, a category prescribing beneficial, detrimental, or neutral states to a referent.
It exaggerates stereotypical (mostly phonetic and orthographic) traits of older stages of German and some modern (especially Upper German) dialects in an impressionistic way, rather than in a rigorously systematic fashion.
Hergé had developed the idea of setting an Adventure of Tintin on the moon while producing Prisoners of the Sun.
Pananarchism also entailed an extension of anarchist principles to "everything", including the fields of knowledge and culture: it meant a critique of both religion and science from a "sociotechnical" perspective.
When the syllables of the noun are switched, the original gender - masculine or feminine - is kept; e.g., "un café -> un feca" Examples Examples include: revés → vesre (reverse; backwards).
Using gestures and objects, not asking questions in a language that the person might know, Pike would begin to analyze the language before the audience.
During the 19th century, the linguistic purism movement is inextricably connected with the magazine Fjölnir (published from 1835 to 1839 and from 1844 to 1847).
Short vowels: i /i/e /e/a /a/o /o/u /u/ Long vowels: ii /iː/aa /aː/uu /uː/ Consonants: b /b/t /t/d /d/ch /tʃ/j /dʒ/k /k/g /ɡ/q /q/’ /ʔ/f /f/v /v/th /θ/dh /ð/s /s/z /z/sh /ʃ/h /h/m /m/n /n/r /ɾ/l /l/w /w/y /j/ The consonants /t/, /tʃ/, and /k/ are unaspirated.
Mudra Bharati A finger-spelling system is proposed alongside the Bharati script named Mudra Bharati, for use as a sign language.
In 1895 he lectured in philosophy at the University of Toulouse and 1897 lectured in philosophy of mathematics at the University of Caen Normandy, taking a stand in favor of transfinite numbers.
Introduction Neolatino emerged as a standard language with a strictly Romance basis, unlike other similar language projects such as Interlingua.
However some suffixes (such as -èl indicating an instrument) and the ending -ì for the past are always stressed; when two or more suffixes are combined, the stress always falls on the penultimate suffix.
Wyrod, Christopher (2003), The light on the horizon: N'Ko literacy and formal schooling in Guinea, MA thesis, George Washington University Wyrod, Christopher (2008).
Both Descartes and Fermat were inspired by the works of the Ancient Greek mathematicians Pappus of Alexandria and Apollonius of Perga, especially by their techniques of analysis.
In his psychotherapy work, Weilgart sometimes used client-created aUI formulations to reveal possible subconscious associations to problematic concepts.
There are few ligatures that combine to form new sounds, and there are conjunct consonants that are used as well by stacking in some cases.
Tot Aĉetas Mil Okulojn, written by Polish author Jean Forge and published in this year, was adapted by Fritz Lang as The Thousand Eyes of Dr.
Examples The following examples attempt to show what the syntax of the language looks like in various uses.
The 13 vowels of Ithkuil are as follows: /ɪ ʊ/ are pronounced as /i u/ when they precede another vowel, and at the end of a word.
In 1887, Peano married Carola Crosio, the daughter of the Turin-based painter Luigi Crosio, known for painting the Refugium Peccatorum Madonna.
It was also reportedly a major influence on other creations such as Hârn and the Skyrealms of Jorune.
In words more than two syllables, word-final -t in the sequence -nt, and -r or -l as the second members of consonant clusters become silent.
Louis Couturat (French: [kutyʁa]; 17 January 1868 – 3 August 1914) was a French logician, mathematician, philosopher, and linguist.
Development and dissemination The idea for a Malawian script came on November 10, 1977, in Paris, when Mwangwego discovered that there are various writing systems in the world, and thought that words meaning "to write" in Malawian languages were evidence that they once had a script of their own.
The shape of the consonant grapheme corresponds to the manner of articulation: Fricatives are indicated by curved lines; with the retroflex/whistled and postalveolar fricatives being loops.
The letter s plays an important part but tends to distort the visual appearance of some words (sientie = science, sesa = cease, sivil(i) = civil).
In this case, their form is identical to that of the genitive singular: mani: "manly, man's"; ʒinu: feminine, "woman's".
Its vocabulary and grammar resembles that of Dutch and German and has little in common with any Slavic languages.
A thanksgiving service was held at St Lawrence's Church in Long Buckby and ended with a rendering of "Bye Bye Blackbird" by John Percival and friends.
He came to prominence after creating the Dothraki and Valyrian languages for the television series Game of Thrones.
Through a convenient quirk of fate, Phaedrus is summoned to the local ruler when the attempt occurs.
With 384,478 articles as of 23 April 2026, it is the 37th-largest Wikipedia as measured by the number of articles, and the largest Wikipedia in a constructed language.
Other examples of Totoiana are Fanuște, Laenico and Anio ("Ștefan", "Nicolae" and "Ioan", Romanian names), cava ("cow", vaca in Romanian) and nudru nubu ("farewell", drum bun in Romanian).
Since all the other children spoke Pig Latin, we were superior because Tut was hard to speak and even harder to understand.
The first edition of Zangezi was published in July 1922, but Khlebnikov didn't see the publication because had died a few weeks earlier on June 28, 1922, from what some sources said was malaria.
The Bagam or Eghap script is a partially deciphered Cameroonian script of several hundred characters.
With administrative permission, Stanford students can take the class for two credits a quarter through the Linguistics Department.
In The Transformer, we resume where Phaedrus left off, content with his life, a few adopted children and a gather-woman.
Example: un bona viro (a good man), belas juvenilos (beautiful girls), granda monto (a big mountain).
A Slib of Lorey (translation: A bit of folklore) by Edna Sanders English to Boontling by Judy Belshe-Toernblom.
The Esperantic Studies Foundation, abbreviated ESF, is a non-profit organisation initiated in 1968 by Jonathan Pool, E.
The term ideal language is sometimes used near-synonymously, though more modern philosophical languages such as Toki Pona are less likely to involve such an exalted claim of perfection.
The emergence of insulated glazing and glass-manufacturing companies also caused the people of Mărgău to lose customers.
This is because the practice of the traditional profession of Mărgău has been reduced considerably and because part of the local population has left the place.
This is clearly distinct from the symbol of "language", which is a combination of "mouth" and "ear".
Between 1990 and 2002, he was a member of the Editorial Advisory Committee of the Journal of Historical Review, which advocated Holocaust denial.
Eine Schriftentwicklung um 1900 in Alaska, Harrassowitz, Wiesbaden (Reprint der Ausgabe Leipzig 1940), ISBN 3-447-02162-4 Vol.
It was developed as a secret language for the use of palace officials, employing a random mix of words from French, English, and German.
For an untrained speaker, a word or phrase can often be something of a tongue twister or a shibboleth.
English frequently makes use of diphthongs, which is an issue for back slang since diphthongs cannot be reversed.
Early life and education Karl Ebbe Vilborg was born on 14 February 1926 in Annedal, Gothenburg, to Annie Carolina Cederberg and Karl Viktor Vilborg.
I think now that this wedding and survival of several in a common offspring is a far more probable thing.
The Oduduwa script () was created in 2016 or 2017 by a Beninese Yoruba chief named Tolúlàṣẹ Ògúntósìn for the Yoruba language of Nigeria and Benin.
Joseph Schipfer (8 April 1761 – 27 January 1843) was a German landowner and wine producer, today mostly known for his creation of the language Communicationssprache.
Urquhart devotes sections of the book to polemics against the foes who prevented him from publishing his linguistic works, primarily his creditors and the Church of Scotland.
was calling himself the Budetlyanin (a Russian pun, meaning 'a Future Living Being'), not a Futurist, and not accidentally that term was not held' ('...не случайно...
They show a collective attempt to propagate, in a democratic way, an international language to facilitate the scientific reports among nations, favouring the progress of civilization and culture.
Richards discussed why he trademarked Basic English, in order to prevent dilution and misrepresentation).
Agbirigba is unintelligible to other speakers of Ikwerre, but the rule for its derivation is simple: the consonant t is added before every CV syllable (or, more accurately, every CV mora).
This correlation could be used to estimate the quality of the forward translation and by simplifying the source text, improve the quality of the forward translation.
as well as a series of symposia on language and development in New York aimed at raising the awareness of the United Nations about the importance of language equality for human development and human rights.
Rabindranath Tagore also composed his Bhanusimha Thakurer Padavali (1884) in this language (he initially promoted these lyrics as those of a newly discovered poet, Bhanusingha).
He transliterated the first 24 pages of the codex to get a Hindi text which was translated to Hungarian.
He doesn't want anyone to laugh at her for learning the language, and tries to convince her to stop speaking Unamunda.
Eventually the upheaval grinds to a halt and Phaedrus gathers small groups of refugees to himself, becoming a sort of mind-healer.
ESF also helped to establish official Esperanto examinations in accordance with the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages.
Literary mentions In Ernest Thompson Seton's book Two Little Savages, the protagonist, Yan, learns the "Tutnee" language from another boy at camp and tries to teach it to his friends Sam and Giles.
In Linguistic Imperialism, Phillipson argues that Western countries have used English as a tool of imperialism to dominate colonies and former colonies.
The phonology of Yoruba, however, suggests that Guosa vowels do not form diphthongs, as almost all the words with adjacent vowels come from Yoruba, in which all vowels are pronounced separately.
Grammar The lexicon of the original Ithkuil consisted of the same patterns as the 2011 form of the language.
Vocabulary The vocabulary of ROILA was generated by an algorithm designed to create a vocabulary with the least confusion amongst words.
The phrases valar morghulis and valar dohaeris, on the other hand, became the foundation of the language's conjugation system.
Brajabuli is basically Maithili (as prevalent during the medieval period), but its forms are modified to look like Bengali.
There once was an occasion, when Velimir Khlebnikov said that he didn't belong to Futurism; that is why the literary critic Yury Tynyanov underlined, that he 'not accidentally ...
Life Originally from Italy, Arturo Alfandari served in the First World War as a cipher officer for the Italian High Command.
In 1985 Unwin recorded with Suns of Arqa on their album Ark of the Arqans, providing spoken accompaniment in Unwinese on the first three tracks.
The idea was to use Latin vocabulary, since this was widely known, but simplify the grammar as much as possible and remove all irregular and anomalous forms to make it easier to learn.
Two of his textbooks have been published, one on personality theories and one on the history of psychology.
In 1996, he published his first long novel in three volumes, Seikai no Monshou (Seikai no Monshō/Crest of the Stars).
Learners are expected to form their own conclusions on the meaning of other members’ messages based only on their existing knowledge of the language, and visual aids in the form of emoji and images.
External links Desatir, or, Sacred writings of the ancient Persian prophets : in the original tongue ...
français [fʁɑ̃sɛ] becomes céfran [sefʁɑ̃]; French louchébem, which relies on syllables inversion too, but also adds extra syllables; Greek podaná (e.g.
He grew up with an interest in science fiction, fantasy, and ancient Egyptian and ancient Mayan cultures.
Honors Pike was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the Linguistic Society of America (LSA), the Linguistic Association of Canada and the United States (LACUS), and the American Anthropological Association.
The couple were reunited on Christmas Eve 1940, after Claire continued east to Shanghai and Charles went west to Shanghai via Canada and Japan.
The encyclopedia started off when he imported the 139 articles of the Enciklopedio Kalblanda by Stefano Kalb, which took him three weeks following 15 November 2001.
This was published without the characters in 1921, and the manuscript with characters was deposited in the library of Cambridge University.
He described it as "the Language of Space", connoting universal communication, and published the fourth edition of the textbook in 1979; a philosophic description of each semantic element of the language was published in 1975.
She gives biographies of Esperantists such as Humphrey Tonkin and covers the role of the Akademio de Esperanto.
After a brief introduction about the Klingon culture and also how the book has been written, the pronunciation of the Klingon letters is described.
Boontling was invented in the late 19th century and had quite a following at the turn of the 20th century.
Discussions on these platforms have included debate over how the language should be shared and who should be considered appropriate custodians of its tradition.
Occidental's symbol, depicting an encircled tilde, was introduced before 1934 and was selected from several variants for its simplicity and symbolism.
The major goals of ROILA are that it should be easily learnable by the user, and optimized for efficient recognition by robots.
It was intended as an indigenous script for all the languages of the Republic of Benin, and has been applied to Fon, Adja, Yoruba, Dendi, Boo, Yom and Ayizo.
Weekly community projects include a Collaboration of the Week (kunlaboraĵo de la semajno) which improves neglected articles and an Article of the Week featuring good-quality articles on the front page.
Having previously created Idiom Neutral, the Academy effectively chose to abandon it in favour of Peano's Latino sine flexione.
The first two of his Meditations on First Philosophy, those that formulate the famous methodic doubt, represent the portion of Descartes's writings that most influenced modern thinking.
The two Ls do not seem to have specifically represented either name and the order Ludwik Lejzer is a modern convention.
There are definite forms of nouns marked with an article, and singular and plural forms, where the plural is marked with the suffix -s after vowels or -es after consonants.
Lingua Franca Nova Boeree was also the inventor of the auxiliary language Lingua Franca Nova (ISO 639-3: lfn), which first appeared in 1998 on the Internet.
When the Akademi effectively chose to abandon Idiom Neutral in favor of Latino sine flexione in 1908, it elected Peano as its director, and the name of the group was changed to Academia pro Interlingua since Interlingua was an alternative name for Peano's language.
A lingua ignota (Latin for "unknown language") was described by the 12th-century abbess Hildegard of Bingen, who apparently used it for mystical purposes.
Some musicologists, however, classify Vivier as a postmodernist composer in his own right, who wrote some of the first and most consequential pieces of this era.
However, when he realized that this did not allow him to reproduce the exact words of a passage the way the Latin alphabet did for English-speaking missionaries, he and his assistants developed it until it became a full syllabary.
Other writers use conventions of the time (writing <Vv> initially and <Uu> elsewhere), while some use <Ii> and <Uu> or <Vv> in all cases.
Uyaquq, who was monolingual in Yup'ik but had a son who was literate in English, initially used Indigenous pictograms as a form of proto-writing that served as a mnemonic in preaching the Bible.
In addition to his work on calculus, he is credited with devising the modern binary number system which is the basis of modern communications and digital computing (though the English astronomer Thomas Harriot had devised the same system decades before).
In 1901, he published La Logique de Leibniz, a detailed study of Leibniz the logician, based on his examination of the huge Leibniz Nachlass in Hanover.
Totoiana is still spoken in the village, and its inhabitants recall that Totoiana was once more widely spoken than standard Romanian in Totoi, even if it is now only used for fun "with a beer".
Also, the mere fact that Nyíri makes an uncritical allusion to the fringe theory that the Hungarian language descended from Sumerian discredits his enterprise.
Only one book has ever been published using the script which is A Malawi Tili Pati ("Malawians, where are we?") by Nolence Mwangwego himself in Chichewa in 2011.
Other 19th century figures in the Bengal Renaissance, such as Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, have also written in Brajabuli.
In Meditations on First Philosophy, Descartes attempted to demonstrate the existence of God and the distinction between the human soul and the body.
Derivation The addition of the t results in consonant clusters that do not occur in Ikwerre or other local languages.
In 2009, publisher Simon & Schuster introduced an iPhone application version of The Klingon Dictionary as part of three applications rolled into a Klingon Language Suite.
ESF also sponsored the creation of the documentary film The Universal Language, and produced the video course Esperanto—Pasporto al la Tuta Mondo (available on YouTube).
In 1902 the Academy proposed a heavily revised version which was known as Neutral and later Idiom Neutral.
The producers gave Peterson a largely free hand in developing the languages, as, according to Peterson, George R.
In anthropology The concept can also be found occasionally in anthropology, where the Bongo-Bongo are sarcastically used as an imaginary tribe or ethnicity (or by extension, the pejorative term Bongo Bongo Land).
Ido Chapter of the first book about Novial which discusses Ido (specific criticisms of Ido are mentioned in various chapters of the book).
The declension of personal pronouns below, however, differs significantly from declensions of nouns or adjectives.
The stories themselves are centered on either a different planet or in space, with short segues that lead the reader from place to place.
One essay describing a modern revival of Tut on TikTok characterizes the practice as subject to “secrecy and gatekeeping,” and reports that some participants argue it should remain within African-American descendant communities due to a history of cultural appropriation.
He gave this register of Esperanto the name Uniespo (Uniëspo, Universala Esperanto, 'Universal Esperanto').
A dictionary of slang and unconventional English: colloquialisms and catch-phrases, solecisms and catachreses, nicknames and vulgarisms (8th ed.).
Grammatically it appears to be a partial relexification of Latin, as in, a code or language formed by substituting new vocabulary into an existing grammar.
The original symbol set, SSS-95, was limited in size due to memory constraints in personal computers at the time.
A detailed comparative study of interlinguistics with full grammatical details of five systems of demonstrated usefulness, Esperanto, Ido, Occidental, Novial, and Latino sine flexione.
[w] is represented interchangeably by a simple vav "ו‎", non-standard double vav "וו‎" and sometimes by non-standard geresh modified vav "ו׳‎".
In 2019, Peterson created a free High Valyrian course on the Duolingo website/app and expanded the course in conjunction with the House of the Dragon series premiere in August 2022.
Words with multiple meanings (polysemous words) are mostly untranslatable, especially if they contain many connotations.
It has a small number of phonemes, so that regional "accents" are less likely to produce unintelligible speech.
Starckdeutsch (literally, strong German, albeit with ck for k, as dictated by the conventions of the variant) is an imagined language created by Matthias Koeppel (1937–2026), a German painter and poet and self-proclaimed Sprachkünstler (artist of language).
That year, Queen Christina of Sweden invited him to her court to organize a new scientific academy and tutor her in his ideas about love.
These include logograms, some used phonetically, syllabograms (for CV and CVC syllables), as well as independent consonants and vowels.
He also opined that Tintin was not keeping up with the times and what he perceived as the increased maturity of children, encouraging the magazine to better reflect current events and scientific developments.
See also Victor Klemperer and his book LTI – Lingua Tertii Imperii ISBN 9780826457776 References External links aUI website Libert, Alan (2000), A Priori Artificial Languages, Lincom Europa, Munich.
Editors at Casterman then removed even further sections, particularly those in which Hergé expressed a negative view of Catholicism.
Empire of the Petal Throne was published by TSR in August 1975 for Gen Con VIII, making it the third role-playing game from TSR.
This began a period of intense creativity and revolutionary agitation for Wolf and Abba, who signed their many collaborations in Russian as "the Gordin Brothers" (Brat'ya Gordinii).
Like most Belgians, his family belonged to the Roman Catholic Church, though they were not particularly devout.
Life Pike was born in Woodstock, Connecticut, and studied theology at Gordon College, a private Christian college in Wenham, Massachusetts, graduating with a B.A.
An example of semantic overlap found in a golf course: The interlocutor's erroneous choice of word removed instead of confiscated results in accidental humour in the context as shown in the example above.
Louchébem or loucherbem (French pronunciation: [luʃebɛm]) is Parisian and Lyonnaise butchers' (French boucher) slang, similar to Pig Latin and Verlan.
It appears that Tolkien abandoned work on the language after writing this portion of the Report, and never returned to it.
Some cultural critics praised the play, while others said (such as Sergey Yutkevich, who would later become a well-known Soviet screenwriter) it was very badly staged.
192–4) Blissymbolic Communication International now claims an exclusive license from Bliss, for the use and publication of Blissymbols for persons with communication, language, and learning difficulties.
Prominent articles and the conlang directory were collected published by Yannia Press as Langmaker: Celebrating Conlangs, with an introduction by David J.
Sofras 'to treat oneself' is given as an example of a reflexive verb; it is not clear if the initial s is a reflexive prefix, as in French s'offrir, or part of the root.
Six volumes of Seikai no Senki are now available, with Morioka naming the first three the "Diahoc Trilogy", but the series itself has not yet finished.
It is fragmentary because it appeared in a dream to Tolkien's frame story character Lowdham, and is only partially translated by him because he did not know the language.
Life in independent Estonia In February 1918, at the time of the Estonian Declaration of Independence, Wahl expressed a desire to join the voluntary militia Omakaitse.
Although Gaussian elimination requires O ( n 3 ) {\displaystyle O(n^{3})} arithmetic operations, linear algebra textbooks still teach cofactor expansion before LU factorization.
A substantial Layaklan-to-English lexicon and an outline of a corresponding English-to-Layaklan lexicon (both of which were written by Foster), accompanied by supporting articles concerning Layaklan, were available online but were subsequently lost.
The Gbékoun script was created in 1994 by Togbédji Adigbè of Dangbo, a speaker of the Weme dialect of Fon.
The text was accepted by both the Indian and the Iranian Zoroastrian communities as genuine, and it became popular, particularly among the Qadimi faction.
Sanction The nine sanctions describe the sort of truthfulness the listener should ascribe to it (assertion, allegation, counterargument, refutation, etc.).
The plurals are based on Esperanto ili "they": imi "we", iti "ye" (informal), ivi "you" (formal), ili "they".
Beside his native Yiddish and (Belo)Russian, Zamenhof studied German, Hebrew, Latin, English, Spanish, Lithuanian, Italian, French, Aramaic and Volapük, knowing altogether something of 13 different languages, which had an influence on Esperanto's linguistic properties.
This list of 30 words gives an impression of what Brithenig looks like in comparison to nine other Romance languages, including Wenedyk, and to Welsh.
Numbers greater than 100 are expressed through multiple formatives, and a special numerical script has logograms for the numbers 1 to 100 and exponential powers of 100.
Bliss, C.K., The Story of the Struggle for Semantography: The Semantography Series, Nos.1–163, Institute for Semantography, (Coogee), 1942–1956.
In April 2013, ELiSo (Esperanto and Free Knowledge) was established as one of the first Wikimedia user groups.
Like many languages, Brithenig has a T–V distinction, with ty being used for addressing people whom the speaker is familiar with or gods, while Gw is used when speaking to a stranger or a less familiar or more formal acquaintance (with capitals).
Tense prefixes Tense prefixes include li- (past), ta- (future), lii- (habitual past), taa- (habitual future), yɛɛ- (habitual present), re- (present continuous -ing), ri- (past continuous -ing), ngi- (conditional, would), nge- (subjunctive, may), and a perfect in lo-.
External links Two poems by Matthias Koeppel, with their standard German translations (Internet Archive) Preface (standard German) to Matthias Koeppels Starckdeutsch.
(Gerda Disappeared!) and 2007 film La patro (The Father) were produced by the Brazilian Esperanto film production company Imagu-filmoj.
Sama papa obeka al dude – Find a good place to eat Kama mingipewa l'arafi gaba milijo paasa, mingijira lε.
It has a phonology based on elementary melodic distinctions, and a simple lexicon and grammar inspired by pidgins.
History Community leader Bodra invented it as an alternative to the writing systems devised by Christian missionaries.
The widespread unscientific habit to look for such coincidental similarities (false etymologies) and proclaim them as proof of genetic relationship (pseudoscientific language comparison) has given rise to the term Bongo-Bongo approach or Bongo-Bongo effect.
An example is trousers and its diphthong, ou, which is replaced with wo in the back slang version reswort.
He began not only discussing and commenting on conlangs but also cataloguing them in a comprehensive database, with overviews of the languages and links to their respective websites.
Furthermore, Tyschenko identified 82 grammatical and phonetic features of the Ukrainian tongue – Polish, Czech and Slovak share upwards of 20 of these characteristics with Ukrainian, whereas Russian apparently only 11.
Phonotactics A syllable in Guosa is generally of the form (C)(G)V(C), though more specialized loanwords may have the structure (C)(C)(C)V(C).
Logopandecteision is a 1653 parodic book by Sir Thomas Urquhart, detailing his plans for the creation of an artificial language by that name.
2004: The movie Blade: Trinity takes place in a generic city which writer/director David Goyer nevertheless wanted to represent as bilingual (as many cities are worldwide), so the second language spoken in this nameless city, and visible on most of its signage, is Esperanto.
However, in the lead up to and during World War II, Esperantists were persecuted in countries such as Nazi Germany, Portugal, and the Soviet Union – the movement was also quietened during the Cold War due to its associations with communism.
Language hypotheses No hypothesis as to the language of the codex has been backed as a universal solution, though a number – such as Hungarian, Dacian, early Romanian or Cuman, and even Hindi – have been proposed.
Langmaker has been viewed by many as an information and activity hub in the online conlanging world.
Mwangwego continues to hold public lectures and exhibitions in academic institutions and teach the script.
The International Movement Writing Alphabet (IMWA) is a set of symbols that can be used to describe and record movement.
Upon its publication the text stirred controversy, some scholars at the time regarding it as a genuine ancient text on par with the Avesta, others deeming it to be a forgery.
Popular speech has created some instances; for example, natives of Barranquilla, Colombia often call their city Curramba, in a stylized form of vesre.
He has marked his codification of that language by acquiring trademark protection on the term, similar to I.A.
This literary register is thus intended as a koiné language blending elements of the principal Manding languages, which are mutually intelligible, but has a very strong Maninka influence.
Footnotes Publications Bliss Bliss, C.K., International Semantography: A Non-Alphabetical Symbol Writing Readable in All Languages.
Sorrells' process is made up of six points of entry in navigating intercultural spaces, including inquiry, framing, positioning, dialogue, reflection, and action.
Michael Everson's First proposed encoding into Unicode and ISO/IEC 10646 of Blissymbolics characters, based on the decomposition of the ISO-IR/169 repertoire.
History in universe In the Dune universe, the language was a secretive language created by the Bhotani Assassins using mirabhasa principles during the first war of the assassins.
One of the studies looking at RTT as a means of measuring MT system quality also looked at its ability to predict whether a text was suitable for machine translation.
bóni but bónim, not boním; apérta but apértad, not apertád), so perhaps it is better to say that the vowel before the final consonant of the stem takes the stress.
In 2011, the Globish Foundation was formed as a non-profit organization in Australia, for the purpose of maintaining and promulgating the standards of Globish.
A palatalized consonant is marked with a hacek, a nasalized vowel with a tilde: ã (among other things, nasalization marks the accusative case; a long vowel by a circumflex: â If stress is not marked, it falls on the last non-schwa vowel preceding the last consonant of the word.
Like Russell, Couturat saw symbolic logic as a tool to advance both mathematics and the philosophy of mathematics.
In 2023, Peterson became engaged to and subsequently married linguist and fellow conlanger Jessie Peterson (née Sams).
External history Tolkien began developing Khuzdul before the publication in 1937 of The Hobbit, with some names appearing in the early versions of The Silmarillion.
It was later used in the eleventh millenium by the Bene Gesserit and used by the Fremen for rites and incantations.
Through the universal freedom of exchange and movement, the developing change in its general spirit will be a world-wide change; that is the quality of its universality.
Literary critic Jean-Marie Apostolidès noted that the character of Tintin was a personification of the "New Youth" concept which was promoted by the European far-right.
In the late 1920s he studied radio, television and languages at Regent Street Polytechnic in London.
and for Semantical Education, Based on the Principles of Ideographic Writing and Chemical Symbolism, Institute of Semantography, (Sydney), 1949.
Bliss, C.K., Semantography-Blissymbolics: A Simple System of 100 Logical Pictorial Symbols, Which can be Operated and Read Like 1+2=3 in All Languages...
The idea of an "old Esperanto" was proposed by the Hungarian poet Kálmán Kalocsay who in 1931 included a translation of the Funeral Sermon and Prayer, the first Hungarian text (12th century), with hypothetic forms as if Esperanto were a Romance language deriving from Vulgar Latin.
The two languages were used in the Jesuit Reductions, the Jesuit missions in Brazil and by early colonists; and came to be used by enslaved Africans and other Indian groups.
Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-11-20.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link) Conrad, David C.
Neolatino aims to be a hypothetical natural evolution of Vulgar Latin in a way most intuitive to native speakers of other Romance languages, thus staying true to the shared grammatical and structural nuances these languages have.
She refuses, telling Don that the language is more than just a method of communication; it is also a bond of love shared between the two of them.
The lack of ch [ʃ], as well as the few other consonants found in French, may merely be an accidental omission due to the small sample of vocabulary.
Unlike in Brahmic abugidas, and more like in an alphabet, the full vowel letters are always written after the consonant, letters usually don't form ligatures, and there is no virama character.
aUI can also be considered an experiment in applied cognitive lexical semantics, and Weilgart originally envisioned it serving as an international language for "Peace through Understanding".
In a few words gender is marked by a, infixed before the last consonant for the masculine (tigar or tigaro "male tiger"), suffixed and stressed for the feminine (tigrá or tigráo "tigress").
Salo also translated the lyrics for the films' soundtracks: many of these are sung in Sindarin in Howard Shore's long and innovative music score for the film series.
He moved with his parents and brother to the United States in 1956 and grew up on Long Island, New York.
The kilns were built by Moses Byrne around 1869 near the Piedmont Station along the Union Pacific Railroad.
The Yilan Brick Kiln (traditional Chinese: 宜蘭磚窯; simplified Chinese: 宜兰砖窑; pinyin: Yílán Zhuānyáo) is a former brick manufacturing factory in Beijin Village, Yilan City, Yilan County, Taiwan.
The temple site is about a 20-minute walk from Tondabayashi Station on the Kintetsu Railway Kintetsu Nagano Line.
Similar camps were established on State forest to house and employ migrants and refugees from war-torn Europe.[2] Archived 2018-08-09 at the Wayback Machine To provide accommodation, eighteen masonite huts were purchased from the Army and erected at the site.
The site is located in the Seto neighborhood in Higashi-ku in the city of Okayama, Okayama Prefecture in the San'yō region of Japan.
Construction The internal walls of the kiln are constructed from brickwork approximately 300 mm thick, reinforced externally by iron bands known as "bonts".
Other, less sophisticated, products included money boxes, cookware, finials and ridge tiles (but not plain tiles), curfews (large, dished cover-plates to close off hearths at night), chimney pots and drainpipes.
A sign posted near the kiln reads, "This kiln was constructed around 1880 by Jake and Joe Carmichael to convert oak wood into charcoal for use at nearby smelters.
There are two known major groups of earthenware and celadon kiln sites from the Goryeo period: those in Gangjin County and more in Buan County.
The kiln is divided into a trumpet-shaped six-meter ventilation path and a 2-meter combustion section, which was cylindrical and which had an inclination of about 30 degrees.
In particular, the semi-mythical Chai ware, and Longquan celadon often feature in earlier groupings, and Jun ware is often omitted.
In the late Edo period, Hasami was the number one producer of blue-and-white porcelain in Japan, and bottles and other products were exported.
The Kiln Site in Jinseo-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 진서리 요지; Hanja: 扶安鎭西里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Jinseo-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
In Middle English, the word is attested as kulne, kyllne, kilne, kiln, kylle, kyll, kil, kill, keele, kiele.
Kido Tile Kiln site (木戸瓦窯跡, Kido Kawara Kama-ato) is an archaeological site with the remains of a late Nara period, early Heian period kiln for roof tile production located in what is now the city of Ōsaki, Miyagi Prefecture in the Tōhoku region of northern Japan.
They further developed creative products based on brick and tiles, leading the community craft towards an industrial culture.
Overview Sue pottery is believed to have originated in the 5th or 6th century in the Kaya region of southern Korea, and was brought to Japan by immigrant craftsmen in the late Kofun period to the Asuka period.
Until the discovery of this site 1950s, it was not known that pottery had been made on the Atsumi Peninsula.
The Narayama Tile Kiln Sites (奈良山瓦窯跡, Narayama kawara gama ato) is the collective name for several archaeological sites containing Nara period kilns located in northern Nara city in Nara Prefecture and southern Kizugawa city in Kyoto Prefecture in the Kansai region of Japan.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Aichi) References External links Tahara Museum home page (in Japanese)
See also Anagama kiln Bartmann jug Pottery References External links Catawba Valley Pottery - History and Illustrations Contemporary Catawba Valley Pottery NEA Profile of Burlon Craig
The Sue pottery kilns are labelled No.5 and No.6 and were in continuous use until into the Kamakura period.
The site at present consists of a two meter long by 1.5 meter wide portion of a noborigama tunnel kiln and hearth.
Initially, tiled roofs were a sign of great wealth and prestige, and used for temple and government buildings.
The Kokubu Tile Kiln ruins (国分瓦窯跡, Kokubu kawara gama ato) is an archaeological site with the ruins of a Nara period kiln, located in the city of Dazaifu, Fukuoka Prefecture Japan.
From the late Eastern Han dynasty to the Southern Song dynasty (~200–1200 A.D.), celadon was produced in vast amounts and traded in regional networks.
The kilns are roughly round, with a low dome covering the central firing area, and are generally only 2 to 3 metres (6.6 to 9.8 ft) across inside.
Overview The Konda Hakuchō site is located in between the Konda Mitoyama Kofun (tomb of Emperor Ōjin) and the Hakayama Kofun in the Furuichi Kofun Cluster, and was the location where the thousands of haniwa used in these, and other burial mounds in the area.
The quality of its decoration was highly prized in the West and widely imitated by major European porcelain manufacturers during the Rococo period.
Haniwa made at this site have been recovered from a wide area around Ibaraki Prefecture, including the Funazukayama Kofun on the north coast of Lake Kasumigaura, 15 kilometers away.
Each kiln was divided into a combustion chamber for burning firewood and a firing chamber for baking tiles, and in front of the combustion chamber was a vestibule that served as a workshop.
A second kiln was established later at Jiaotanxia ("Altar of Heaven" or "Suburban Altar"), on the outskirts of the new capital; this has been identified and excavated.
Fossils of sponge bone needles contained in the clay that rise to the surface during firing, forming white needle-like patterns, distinguish the products from other kiln sites.
The site was in use from about 1630 to the 1660s When the kiln was first built, porcelain and earthenware were made together here, but later only porcelain was produced, and it is now Arita's oldest dedicated porcelain kiln.
Before the powder goes to the kiln, the composition of the 3 components is carefully monitored to ensure the right ratio.
Australia Lime Kiln Remains, Ipswich Pipers Creek Lime Kilns Raffan's Mill and Brick Bottle Kilns There were a number of lime kilns at Wool Bay, South Australia.
The tableware was lead- and tin-glazed, using galena (probably sourced from the Mendip Hills) and stannic oxide.
Overview In 1180 AD, during the Genpei War of the late Heian period, the great temple of Tōdai-ji was burned down by Heike forces.
Although the term "firebox" is used to describe the space for the fire, there is no physical structure separating the stoking space from the pottery space.
In the 13th and 14th centuries Laverstock was the centre of a prosperous ceramic industry, with baluster jugs (polychrome-glazed tall jugs) and aquamaniles being supplied to the nearby Clarendon Palace.
The process leaves mostly carbon as a residue, which can be incorporated into soil to create terra preta.
Latest technology was introduced to this kiln and after around two decades, the brick production in this factory accounted for around 70% of bricks in Taiwan.
Ash glazed pottery was distributed throughout the Japanese archipelago as a domestic, high-class ceramic.
Overview The Kosugimaruyama Site located in the southwestern part of the Imizu Hills, in the western part of the Toyama Plain.
Tea utensils such as tea bowls from the Edo period and kiln tools for producing them have been excavated from a narrow area in front of the kiln's opening and have been dated to the end of the 17th century and 18th century .
See also List of World Heritage Sites in South Korea Joseon white porcelain Korean pottery and porcelain References External links Media related to Gangjin Kiln Sites at Wikimedia Commons UNESCO "World Heritage In Korea" (PDF).
Sue pottery is believed to have originated in the 5th or 6th century in the Kaya region of southern Korea, and was brought to Japan by immigrant craftsmen.
In a subsequent excavation in 1992, a pit kiln from the early Heian period was discovered, and tiles with glaze drips remaining and fragments of a multi-mouthed bottle with two-colored glaze were excavated.
The location of the site is not disclosed; they are listed as "Address Restricted", as is done for archeological resources that may be damaged and lose their information potential, if not protected.
The Viola ore deposit was discovered in 1881 and was mined until 1888 when the ore was depleted and the price of lead had fallen.
Typical applications include oxidation studies of high-temperature materials, annealing under inert atmospheres, reduction reactions, sintering of ceramics, and chemical vapor deposition experiments.
The hexagonal vases and covers known as "Hampton Court" vases were named after a pair at Hampton Court Palace near London, recorded in an inventory of 1696.
A user may choose to control the rate of temperature climb or ramp, hold or soak the temperature at any given point, or control the rate of cooling.
The monk Shunjōbō Chōgen, with the support of the Imperial Court, was appointed as a daikan to collect the funds for the project, and was given the revenues of all Bizen Province to use for the reconstruction.
The Continental Clay Brick Plant in Martinsburg, West Virginia includes a number of beehive brick kilns.
The three surviving beehive-shaped kilns were built of local sandstone about 30 feet (9.1 m) in circumference and about 30 feet (9.1 m) high, with 24-inch-thick (61 cm) walls.
The foundations of the buildings were no different from those found in ordinary settlements; however, there were a very large number of shards of Haji ware and a small amount of Sue ware found mixed with charcoal and ash in the soil around the kilns.
The Yamakuma kiln site is thought to have been in operation in the first half of the 5th century, and operations appear to have ceased after a relatively short period of time.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Aichi) References External links Tahara city museum official site Tahara tourist information site
In the process of annealing glass, the temperature is first equalised by holding or "soaking" the glass at the annealing point for a period of time that depends on the maximum thickness of the glass.
Both kilns are 30 feet (9.1 m) tall and 25 feet (7.6 m) in diameter and were built from rocks and mud.
The Tybo Charcoal Kilns are a pair of charcoal kilns located 4 miles (6.4 km) north of Tybo, Nevada.
The Muromachi period was a golden age for Suzu ware, but it soon went into decline, and vanished by the time of the Sengoku period, unable to complete with large-scale production in areas such as Tokoname.
Wilkerson & Sons Brick Works, Front Street (Road 409), Milford, Sussex County, DE", 35 photos, 3 measured drawings, 13 data pages Brick Making Machine website
He is considered a pioneer of the revival of wood-fired ceramics in the US and credited as one of the first to use wood-burning dragon kilns in the style of the anagama tradition.
Enshū's Seven Kilns (遠州七窯 Enshū chō or Enshū nana gama) is a list of Japanese pottery kilns whose products were considered amongst the favourites of the Japanese tea ceremony master Kobori Enshū (小堀 遠州 1579–1647), who lived during the Edo period.
The listing included two charcoal kilns that each are about six feet in diameter and four feet deep, built out of stone.
In the saggar maker's workshop, clay would be rolled around a wooded form by the saggar maker, while a lad would knock the bottom using a mawl and an iron mould.
History The teamaster Enshū used a number of Japanese tea utensils and corresponded about it with other friends, connoisseurs of tea, and the lords of the provinces where the kilns were located.
The temple's influence declined during the Heian period, but it was rebuilt in the late Kamakura period by Eison and Ninsho of Saidai-ji.
The Shanglin Lake Yue Kilns (Chinese: 上林湖越窑遗址) are a cluster of archaeological sites where Yue ware was made, though they are by no means the only ones.
Kiln No.5 and Kiln No.6 had lengths of 5.5 meters and 5.8 meters respectively, and share the same vestibule.
The Kiln Site in Yucheon-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 유천리 요지; Hanja: 扶安柳川里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Yucheon-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
Cultural Transformation Li Chun-Hong, the fourth-generation owner of Sanhe Tile Kiln, organized the Tile Kiln Culture Association.
Green-glazed eaves tiles from the early to late Heian period were unearthed here, and green-glazed pottery was also found in the climbing kiln, indicating that the kiln was both a pottery and a tile-making kiln.
These same types of tiles have been excavated from the nearby Shimotsuke Yakushi-ji temple ruins and the Shimotsuke Kokubun-ji ruins.
The place was published one of the Major Historical and Cultural Sites Protected at the National Level by the State Council in January 1988, and was classified as one of the 100 Great Sites Protection Plan from 2006.
Dating and kiln sites The new Southern Song court was established in Hangzhou in 1127, but some time probably elapsed before the kiln was established; this may not have been until after hostilities with the invaders were concluded in 1141.
These were opened in 1797 and closed in 1917 when the Weston branch was closed following a breach of the canal.
Narrow gauge railway The company operated a works-owned Decauville railway with a gauge of 600 mm (1 ft 11+5⁄8 in) from the quarries to the cement factory .
The Mantomi Tōdai-ji Tile Kiln ruins (万富東大寺瓦窯跡, Mantomi Tōdaiji kawara gama ato) is an archaeological site containing the remnants of a number of anagama kilns, from which the roof tiles for the Kamakura period reconstruction of the temple of Tōdai-ji in Nara were made.
Ninomiya Tile Kiln ruins (二ノ宮窯跡, Ninomiya kama ato) is an archaeological site consisting of the remains of two Nara period kilns located in what is now the Takase neighborhood of the city of Mitoyo, Kagawa Prefecture on the island of Shikoku, Japan.
For example, an anagama is somewhat like a half-tube (long vault) with a fire burned at the lower end.
Nevertheless, his designs provided the basis for successful kilns in the US from 1891, subsequently emulated worldwide.
Some digital temperature controllers provide an RS-232 interface, and permit the operator to program segments for uses like ramping, soaking, sintering, and more.
Alternatively it was originally produced accidentally, but within the Guan period became deliberate.
Later the materials for porcelain were found, so gradually Hasami ware shifted from pottery to porcelain.
Since both Kakiemon and Imari styles were already so popular among Europeans, Chinese export porcelain copied both styles.
The Former Tangrong Brick Kiln (traditional Chinese: 中都唐榮磚窯廠; simplified Chinese: 中都唐荣砖窑厂; pinyin: Zhōngdōu Tángróng Zhuānyáochǎng) is a former brick manufacturing factory in Sanmin District, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
A TLUD gasifier is a considerable improvement on the rocket stove, being a more efficient way to achieve smoke-free combustion of the fuel.
See also Listed buildings in Baschurch References External links Media related to Weston Lullingfields at Wikimedia Commons
The Daegumyeon kiln site is unusual because of the high concentration of kilns and because the dates of these kilns range throughout the entire Goryeo Dynasty.
It dates to the Heian period, during the late 12th century, and is registered as a National Treasure.
The annealing renders glass into a stronger material with fewer internal stresses, and with a lower probability of breaking.
A Butte, Montana, man named Warren King built 16 kilns from brick made from local clay, possibly obtained from Jump Creek on the east side of the Birch Creek valley.
In 1977, another site containing a Sue pottery fragment stamped with the "Mino Province" mark was discovered from the Oibora kiln site at the northern foot of the mountain, and three kiln ruins were confirmed at this location.
The Charcoal Kilns near Eureka, Utah were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.
At Weston Lullingfields the canal company built a wharf, four lime kilns, a public house, stables, a clerk's house and weighing machine.
On the south side of the tile kiln, was the remains of a building with pillars, a well, a rotary table, and a clay mining site.
After the fall of the Southern Song court and the unification of the Chinese nation under Mongol rule the Tiger Kiln maintained production.
The dragon kiln form was copied in Korea, from sometime between 100 and 300 CE, and much later in Japan in various types of climbing anagama kilns, and elsewhere in East Asia.
In an excavation conducted in 1989 , the remains of four tile kilns were found, in the form of flat kilns made from hollowed out ground, with a length of 3.3 meters, and a width of 1.1 meters and depth of 1.2 meters.
The crackle arises during cooling, when the coefficient of expansion differs between the glaze and the body.
During its initial years since 1965, the kiln would be fired up to four times a month due to production demands for the latex cups.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefecture Board of Education official site (in Japanese) Yūki city home page (in Japanese)
Suzu ware pottery has been found in many locations along the coast of the Sea of Japan as far north as Hokkaido, indicating that it was a common trade good for the coastal commerce.
Coal burning is a very dirty process; the smoke from a bottle kiln would eddy around the kiln top, and curl down to ground level either into the yard of the pot bank or into the streets and houses around.
In concert with long residence times in the high-temperature range, this leads to complete fuel burn-up.
Subsequent investigations found that one kiln was used for the production of Sue ware, whereas 34 kilns were specialized for roof tile production.
It is usually assumed that potters from the northern imperial kilns followed the court south to man the new kilns.
Wood tar Since prehistoric times, wood tar has been used as a water repellent coating for boats, ships, sails, and roofs.
The park contains replicas of the 20 types of haniwa (cylindrical, animal, house-shaped, or warrior) which have been found on this site).
Pottery produced at the Ōarako site was used for everyday items, such as large storage containers, tea bowls and funerary urns.
The Yamabeda Kiln closed around the same time, in the late 1650s to 1660s, and it is believed that this was due to the shift in the Imari ware production system and the change in the style required.
His pottery was featured in several publications and in 1981 examples of his work were added to the Smithsonian Institution collection.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saga) References External links Saga Prefecture home page(in Japanese)
The Lime Kilns located at the western end of Homansville Canyon near Eureka, Utah, were part of a lime quarry in the 1920s.
Access The Kotoge Kiln Site is about a 30-minute drive from Takeo-Onsen Station on the JR Kyushu Sasebo Line.
One camel load, or cantur (qentar / quntar = 100 ratels, or 250–300 kilograms), of lime would fetch 40 grush on the Jerusalem market in the early 1880s.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Prefectural Board of Education (in Japanese) Ishioka City official site (in Japanese) Ishioka Tourist Information site (in Japanese)
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Osaka) References External links Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education (in Japanese) Habikino City official site (in Japanese)
The Akahogi Tile Kiln site (赤保木瓦窯跡, Akahogi Kawara Kama-ato) is the remains of a late Nara period, early Heian period roof tile and pottery production site located in the Akahogi neighborhood of the city of Takayama, Gifu Prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan.
During the 570s under the reign of Emperor Bidatsu, the king of Baekche sent six people to Japan skilled in various aspects of Buddhism, including a temple architect.
Gallery References External links Media related to Laverstock ware at Wikimedia Commons Photographs of Laverstock ware by Craig Rycroft on Flickr: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
By all appearances, the pit was made after the same basic principle used in a "Dakota fire pit," which is made with an air inlet at the base, allowing for air-ventilation, but on a larger scale.
The archaeological excavation conducted in 1982 found that Goguryeo-style eaves tiles at this site are identical to those found at the ruins of Toyuraji in Asuka, Nara, some 50 km (31 mi) away.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education Archived 2021-04-27 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese) Hitachinaka City official site (in Japanese)
An archaeological excavation found a total of 35 kilns across an area 130 meters north-to-south and 80 meters east-to-west.
It is located a five-minute walk from the "Mawatari" bus stop on the Ibaraki Kotsu Bus from Katsuta Station on the JR East Jōban Line.
Two methods were used for this: 'A la chenille', packed in bags as general cargo via a conveyor belt.
It is evident that both were built to prepared designs, and that they were meant to operate closely together as a single functional unit.
Kiln furniture is made of refractory materials, i.e., materials that withstand high temperatures without deformation.
The Société Coloniale des Chaux et Ciments de Portland de Marseille (Colonial Company for Lime and Portland Cements in Marseille) owned and operated cement works in L'Estaque near Marseille in the department of Bouches-du-Rhône.
The celadons placed great emphasis on elegant forms and their ceramic glazes, and were otherwise lightly decorated, with no painting.
In Gangjin County, the more than 75 kilns are in Yongun-ri, 59 are in and around Gyeyul-ri, 43 are in Sadang-ri, and 6 are in Sudong-ri.
The ruins of a pottery kiln were discovered in 1936, and many pieces of Sue ware were excavated from inside.
Various different arrangements for controlling the airflow at front and back by vents and stone doors are found.
References External links Media related to Atsumi Kiln at Wikimedia Commons http://www.tnm.jp/modules/r_collection/index.php?controller=dtl_img&size=L&colid=E15464&t=type&id=34&lang=en
Despite its impressive technological achievements, the operation, managed and probably designed by Alfred Spence, was short-lived, closing in 1856, only eighteen months after it opened.
In Western Australia, the kiln at the Maylands Brickworks in the Perth suburb of Maylands, which operated from 1927 to 1982 is the only remaining Hoffman kiln in the state.
Since the furniture is being heated along with the load, this increases energy consumption hence the operating costs increase.
In the modern period, the kilns in Hasama became subcontractors for Arita ware, and the name gradually became an unknown brand.
Two of the kilns have been excavated and were found to be 1.5 meters high, 5.5 meters deep, and 1.5 meters wide, and to be constructed of sun-dried bricks.
The exhaust gas may go to waste, or may enter a preheater, which further exchanges heat with the entering feed.
The listing included one contributing site and two contributing structures: two lime kilns that are approximately 8 feet (2.4 m) in diameter and 30 to 40 feet (9.1 to 12.2 m) deep.
The site is one of the earliest such locations found in the Hokuriku region and shows the influence of the central government from the imperial dynasty and the influence of Buddhism during the Asuka period.
The kilns are built underground into the slope of a hill, and are a stepless form of the traditional anagama kiln.
The site was designated a National Historic Site of Japan in 1976 with the area under protection expanded in 2010.
The ceiling part is completely intact, and it appears to be the oldest of the group, but the kiln itself remains unexcavated.
Transportation The building is accessible within walking distance north of Yilan Station of Taiwan Railway.
Overview The kiln ruins are located in a valley southwest of Ashigaike in the central part of the Atsumi Peninsula.
The remains were found during the development of a housing complex and consist of the remains of four kilns, a workshop, and an ash field.
The site is believed to have been in operation from the latter half of the 6th century to the 7th century AD.
Pine tar oil, or wood tar oil, is used for the surface treatment of wooden shingle roofs, boats, buckets, and tubs, and in the medicine, soap, and rubber industries.
However, later excavations found that roof tiles predating the Fujiwara-kyō Palace were used in the local Myon-ji temple ruins and the Hōdō-ji temple ruins in Marugame came from this kiln.
Per an archaeological excavation conducted in 1965, 25 clay mining pits, 12 workshops, two pit dwellings, and 19 kilns were found in three locations on a plateau overlooking long and narrow paddy fields.
One kiln remains and was listed along with the jetty under the name of Wool Bay Lime Kiln & Jetty on the South Australian Heritage Register on 28 November 1985.
If the pieces are heated too high, instead of the desired celadon color, the pieces will turn brown.
At the turn of the 20th century, the food industry began to rely increasingly on glass and canned food storage along with refrigeration.
Overview The Obata Kitayama site is located on a plateau at an elevation of 22.5 to 27 meters, on the southern bank of the Hinuma River and is Japan's largest known haniwa production site.
The Piedmont Charcoal Kilns in Piedmont, Wyoming, are a remnant of a once-extensive charcoal-making industry in southwestern Wyoming.
The Kasaya Kofun Group, the Torazuka Kofun Group, and the Nagahori Kofun Group are located about two kilometers from this site, which is considered to be the source of haniwa used at those tumuli.
Recent interest in the Rockingham Works has seen the erection of a commemorative sculpture in Swinton in 2003, and a community heritage project at the site in 2021, directed by the artist Carlos Cortes.
The large, flat-style kiln had a length of 13.8 meters and width of 3.64 meters, of which only the bottom portion has survived.
The Dodo Sue Ware Kiln Site (百々陶器窯跡, Dodo Sue-ki kama ato) is an archaeological site containing late Heian to early Kamakura period kilns located in the Mutsure neighborhood of the city of Tahara, Aichi in the Tōkai region of Japan.
The kiln structure with no steps between firing chambers and the product features reminiscent of porcelain production techniques are similar to those of the Korean Peninsula.
For many years since closure, the quarry served as storage for road building materials, and a tipple for them was built, but was soon abandoned.
The site is now an archaeological park, with one of the kilns restored, and a museum displaying artifacts recovered.
Muneyoshi Tile Kiln Site ruins (宗吉瓦窯跡, Muneyoshi gayō ato) is an archaeological site consisting of the remains of twenty-one Asuka to Nara period kilns located in what is now the Mino neighborhood of the city of Mitoyo, Kagawa Prefecture on the island of Shikoku Japan.
In Finland, wood tar was once considered a panacea reputed to heal "even those cut in twain through their midriff".
The site is contemporary with the Daikichiyama tile kiln ruins and both kilns supplied the various government administrative complexes (such as at the Higashiyama Kanga ruins) located around the province.
Early kilns The common feature of early kilns was an egg-cup shaped burning chamber, with an air inlet at the base (the "eye"), constructed of brick.
The other kiln was a square, flat, kiln, with the firing port facing northeast and a built-in base with several fire grooves.
See also Lime Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Charcoal Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Frisco Charcoal Kilns, Milford, Utah, NRHP-listed == References ==
The Daikichiyama Kilns are one of several kilns which have been found within what is now Miyagi Prefecture dating from this period.
During the Japanese colonial period, the tile kiln industry in the Dashu area flourished, with about twenty-three factories and more than one hundred and thirty kilns at its peak, making Dashu the main production and distribution center for tiles in Taiwan.
By using firing temperatures in excess of 1000 deg C, reduction flame firing became possible, resulting in a hard blue-grey pottery that had less porosity than previous techniques.
The oven itself is inside the hovel and is cylindrical in shape with domed roof and foot (30cm) thick walls.
The Six Ancient Kilns -JAPAN HERITAGE- The Six Oldest Pottery Centers in Japan 古丹波 その歴史と美 | Old Tamba Pottery Museum Six Ancient Kilns of Japan
Six more kilns capable of high yield bricks were added and the bricks produced here was branded the Taiwan Renga.
The kilns and surrounding area have been preserved as the Oribe-no-sato Park, and there is an exhibition room for relics excavated at site.
Kiln furniture are devices and implements inside furnaces used during the heating of manufactured individual pieces, such as pottery, other ceramic or metal components.
All of the kilns are anagama-style kilns, and traces of ash spread 80 meters east-west and 30 meters north-south in the valley in front of the ruins.
Finally the pile is sealed airtight with a mix of ash and charcoal pieces (possibly known as 'culm' or 'brusque'; German: Lösche, Stübbe, Stibbe or Gestübe) and earth, with the exception of the central chimney.
From the numerous roof tiles uncovered, the temple also had a strong connection to the Shimotsuke Yakushi-ji which also dates from the same period, and also with the Yūki temple ruins.
This temperature differential results in mechanical stresses throughout the molten glass, which may be sufficient to cause the material to crack as it cools to ambient temperature or to make it susceptible to cracking during later use, either spontaneously or due to mechanical or thermal shock.
The Shuili Snake Kiln Ceramics Cultural Park (traditional Chinese: 水里蛇窯陶藝文化園區; simplified Chinese: 水里蛇窑陶艺文化园区; pinyin: Shìlín Zhǐ Chǎng) is a ceramic kiln in Dingkan Village, Shuili Township, Nantou County, Taiwan.
Overview The Suenosue kiln site is located on a southern slope of a hill and is believed to date from the 6th century.
Known as "B" kiln because it was the second to be discovered, it is believed to have been in use between the 1640s and 1650s.
It was used as an official kiln for Karatsu Domain from the mid- to late Edo period, and was subsequently used by the Nakazato family until the Taisho era.
The kilns were semi-underground, stepless noborigama climbing kilns, with a kiln floor with a slope of about 20°.
Access to the interior was provided by a "clammin", an opening sized to allow a placer (a worker carrying a saggar) to enter.
Though the community had only been settled in 1870, by the end of the decade it had a post office, school, newspaper, and almost 1000 residents.
In 1994, the Association participated in community activities and workshops for community development, reviving Dashu residents’ memories of and enthusiasm for brick and tile kilns.
The zhenyao "egg-shaped kiln", developed for Jingdezhen ware in the late Ming dynasty, is in some ways a compromise between mantou and dragon kilns, like a stretched mantou kiln.
Archaeological excavations of the site began from 1988, and the area was opened to the public as the "Haniwa Factory Park".
In the front, there was a field of ash where ashes from firing and failed roof tiles were discarded.
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) The clinker burning process is a high-temperature process resulting in the formation of nitrogen oxides (NOx).
The soil and techniques of these tiles match those of the tiles used in the Naniwa Palace, which Emperor Shōmu started constructing in 726 AD.
The Walker Charcoal Kiln is a structure in the Prescott National Forest near the town of Walker, Arizona and situated in the vicinity of the abandoned Poland Junction Mine near the summit of Renegade Hill.
It is assumed that Enshū also gave works in commission, thus helping in the establishment of some of the newer, less-known kilns of that time and also establishing a long-term relationship with existing ones.
The Quartz Roasting Pits complex can shed more light through archaeological investigation on itself, upon the processes of technological transfer and adaptation of technology in the period of gold mining commencing in Australia.
The festival was credited with helping to conserve the location from redevelopment as part of the Population White Paper in 2013.
The material had the advantages of great strength and durability, and could also be made at locations around the country wherever clay was available.
4 kiln was a stepless type kiln, with a wide and flat work surface in the vestibule and total length of 9.6 meters.
The two large, dug-out pillared buildings are lined up north and south of the main building with the pillars spaced approximately 6 meters apart, and are thought to have been facilities used for making and drying tiles.
Gembrook site The selection of the suitable site on State forest for Professor Kurth's kiln depended on adequate supplies of water, wood, and gradient.
The Ōyamazaki Tile Kiln ruins (大山崎瓦窯跡, Ōyamazaki kawara gama ato) is an archaeological site with the ruins of an early Heian period kiln, located in the town of Ōyamazaki, Otokuni District, Kyoto Prefecture in the Kinai region of Japan.
The existence of the kiln was confirmed in 1911, but an academic archaeological excavation was not made until 1943.
Overview See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Miyagi) Daikichiyama Tile Kiln Site Hinodeyama Tile Kiln Site References External links Miyagi Prefecture official site (in Japanese) Osaki city official site Archived 2020-06-03 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese) Nippon Kichi site
From 1978, archaeological excavations were carried out, and continued from 2005 to 2008 to preserve and open the ruins to the public.
The Motoyashiki Higashi Kiln No.2 has a total length of 7.5 meters and a width of 3.9 meters, and was built next to the Higashi No.
The Goshogawara Sue Kiln Ruins date from the middle of the 9th century to the late 10th century, or the middle of the Heian period.
In 1967, a Sue pottery engraved with the words "Mino Kuni" was excavated from the remains of the Asakura kiln at the southern foot of the mountain, and more than four kiln sites were later discovered.
During charcoal production, by-products are generated such as wood tar, wood vinegar, wood spirit and wood gas.
Demand for bricks grew exponentially as the economy prospered, thus the government integrated all existing kilns in Taiwan in 1913 to form the Taiwan Renga Company (Japanese: 臺灣煉瓦會社打狗工場).
Once charring is complete, the fire in the pile is quickly extinguished by the clogging of the air holes.
The firing chamber is about 0.5 meters higher than the combustion chamber and measures 1.1 meters in length and 2.3 meters in width.
The Dodo site contains two nobori-gama kilns built side-by-side on a hill, utilizing a south-facing slope.
A single aperture, or spyhole, was left open to allow the firemen to monitor Buller’s rings, which served as indicators to gauge the internal temperature during the firing process.
Further investigation of shards found at the site, as well as earlier finds from the Edo period in this neighborhood, revealed a number of ink markings and inscriptions which were identical to markings on existing tiles preserved at Tōdai-ji.
This corresponds to the name of a temple in the Shōmonki, a medieval chronicle of the life of Taira no Masakado.
In Israel, the principal fuel used to keep the lime-kiln burning was the dried brushwood of prickly burnet (Sarcopoterium spinosum) and savory (Satureja thymbra), where often camel loads of this dried wood would be hauled to the lime-kiln.
The result are clinker granules with a size of 3-25mm, which is first cooled heavily to 150 °C before going into storage (step 7).
There is still a working kiln at Kings Dyke in Peterborough, which is the last site of the London Brick Company, owned by Forterra PLC.
Per archaeological excavations starting in 1976, the site was found to contain the traces of three pit dwellings, four excavated pillar dwellings, 16 kilns for the firing of earthenware, 11 prehistoric storage pits, two clay pits, and one well.
A temporary "bag wall" might be built at the front of the kiln, once loaded, to protect the wares from the direct flames, and enclose the fire.
These features occupied a site on a gentle slope with a width of about 100 meters and length of about 200 meters, surrounded by a moat.
During the Edo period, the Ikeda clan daimyo of Okayama Domain continued to support the kilns and gave special privileges to families who operated them.
A portion of the ceramic production of this period continued to be celadon ware in the official (guan) ware style.
Hoffman kilns are still in use for brick production in some parts of the world, especially in places where labor costs are low and modern technology is not easily accessible.
It is located in Xiuwu in Henan province, China, and is also known as the Xiuwu Kiln (修武窑 Xiuwu yao) or Xiuwu kiln.
The job of the charcoal burner at this stage is to neither let the pile go out nor to let it burn down as a result of too much air over the following days or weeks (depending on the size of the pile and the weather).
See also Kiln Site in Jinseo-ri, Buan References External links Media related to Kiln Site in Yucheon-ri, Buan at Wikimedia Commons
The Ninomiya kilns are located on the slope of a hill within the precincts of the Ōminakami Shrine, which is the ninomiya (second shrine), of Sanuki Province.
The Fuchū-Yamanouchi kiln is located about one kilometer southwest of the Sanuki Kokubun-ji and is on the border between Sakaide and Takamatsu cities.
This style of pottery is very similar to Catawba Valley Pottery, which was developed in nearby North Carolina.
All except Ding ware used celadon glazes, and in Western terms the celadon kilns are stoneware, as opposed to the Ding early porcelain.
The kilns were made by digging a long hole on a slope of a hill, with smoke holes on the upper side.
The Trust worked in partnership with North Wales Wildlife Trust to develop the project and received political endorsement from Wrexham County Borough Council.
It appears to have been used for experimentation in new designs such as Setoguro, Kiseto, and Haishino pottery.
Modern kilns can be fitted with computerized controls allowing for fine adjustments during the firing.
The risers of the stairs are lined with large pillars, and the upper surface is covered with round and flat tiles.
The site is located approximately 15 kilometers southeast of the center of present-day Goshogawara, on a small hill on a tributary of the Maedano River, and consists of at least 40 kilns.
In 1968, while studying biology at the City College of New York, Chaleff survived a drowning accident that took his friend's life.
Overview As the imperial government extended control over Mutsu Province in the 8th Century AD, a number of fortified administrative centers and Buddhist temples were built in the area centered on Taga Castle.
The site of the Dangyangyu kiln (当阳峪窑址 Dangyangyu yaozhi) was placed on a list of protected sites of Henan in 2006.
The earliest centralized production of Sue ware was long believed to have been The Suemura kilns in southern Osaka Prefecture; however, archaeological excavations at this site in northern Kyushu is challenging this theory.
A noborigama 登り窯 chambered climbing kiln is also built on a slope, and each succeeding chamber is situated higher than the one before it.
The subsequent owners, the Brameld family, built the Rockingham Kiln, and other structures on the site, in 1815.
From the Southern Song period (1127–1279), some kilns were built as a series of chambers, stepped as they ran up the slope, and with connecting doors to allow access to both the kiln-workers during loading and unloading, and the heat during firing.
Nanfeng Kiln (Chinese: 南风古灶; pinyin: Nánfēng gǔ zào; Jyutping: naam4 fung1 gu2 zou3) is a tourist attraction in the Ancient Nanfeng Kiln Cultural and Creative Zone, which is located in Shiwan Town, Chancheng District, Foshan city, Guangdong province of China.
Cylindrical haniwa and Sue ware items that can be traced to these kilns also have been excavated from kofun burial mounds.
The combustion chamber is located on the south side, one step lower than the floor of the firing chamber.
The Ōya site is located on the southeastern slope of a hill in the northern part of the city of Higashmatsuyama.
The site was backfilled after excavation and is covered in forest, It is about 30 minutes walk from Gunma-Fujioka Station on the JR East Hachikō Line.
Semi-subterranean in construction, the groundhog kiln featured a door leading into a long, low passage of brick or rock construction, with a stack or chimney poking out of the ground uphill.
The tyre rides on pairs of steel rollers, also machined to a smooth cylindrical surface, and set about half a kiln-diameter apart.
Both sites date from the latter half of the 7th century to the early 8th century and our 70,000 pottery shards were found.
Last standing were the storage shed, the shed over the brick-making machine, and one of the drying sheds.
Kilns 1 to 3 and 5 are Sue ware kilns dating to the late 6th century, and Kiln 4 fired both Sue ware pottery and roof tiles in the mid 7th century.
It has been known since the early twentieth century as a ruined temple site, as old roof tiles were scattered on ground, but it was not excavated until 1959.
Flash vacuum pyrolysis often utilize a fused quartz tube, usually packed with quartz or ceramic beads, which is heated at high temperatures.
Sue ware, cylindrical haniwa, hand-kneaded pottery, and other artifacts have been excavated from each kiln site.
Types of kilns Permanent lime kilns fall into two broad categories: "flare kilns" also known as "intermittent" or "periodic" kilns; and "draw kilns" also known as "perpetual" or "running" kilns.
From the layout and artifacts, this temple ruin indicates the spread of Buddhism into the northern Kantō region from an early date, with strong Kansai influences.
There are seven kilns at the site, six of which were used for roof tile production, and one of which was used to make Sue pottery.
Tube furnaces can also be used for thermolysis reactions, involving either organic or inorganic reactants.
Shipping Finished products destined for export were transported by lorry to the Port de la Lave, where they were loaded onto cargo ships.
The area has been a thriving tile manufacturing area since before the construction of Heian-kyō, and the kilns in this area were government-run and produced the roof tiles for the Heian-kyō palaces and temples such as Tō-ji and Sai-ji.
This indicates that the kiln was operated by local ruling families prior to its involvement with the palace project.
It may consist of refractory bricks or cast refractory concrete, or may be absent in zones of the kiln that are below approximately 250 °C (482 °F).
The site is located a 50-minute walk from the "Noda" bus stop on the Toyotetsu Bus from Mikawa-Tahara Station on the Toyohashi Railroad Atsumi Line; however, as the ruins were backfilled after excavation, there is nothing to see at this location.
The kilns is an integrated part of the cement plant, connected by a number of ancillary pieces of equipment, used to engineer an ideal flow of cement to the rest of the system.
However, as the popularity of Bizen ware increased, large kilns were built to meet the need for mass production from the late Muromachi period.
Most of Byrne's charcoal was shipped to the area around Salt Lake City (the Utah Valley) for use in small smelters and blacksmith shops.
By 1830, Kirbee and his family had relocated to Georgia; and by 1840, they had migrated to Montgomery County, Texas.
The site was backfilled after excavation and is now a tree-covered hill with a stone monument marking the location.
In the 1980s, Singapore's shift in burial practices to cremation led to a rise in demand for burial urns, leading the farm to take up production.
A third expansion occurred around 530 AD, during which time the haniwa for the neighboring Imashirozuka Kofun were made.
The group were only so called by much later writers, and of the five, only two (Ru and Guan) seem to have produced wares directly ordered by the Imperial court, though all can be of very high quality.
The date, the year of the Battle of Waterloo, led to the kiln's alternative name, the Waterloo Kiln.
There is also a kofun burial mount located on the south slope of the hill, but this is not thought to be related to the kilns.
Tan's daughter, Stella, began implementing more digitized practices in the 2010s to appeal to Singapore's urban clientele.
As a result of archaeological excavations, it was estimated that the kiln ruins were distributed in an area of about four kilometers from east-to-west and about 4.8 km from north-to-south, and there were originally about 500 kilns.
Ruth Harman, in her 2017 revised volume, Yorkshire West Riding: Sheffield and the South, of the Pevsner Buildings of England series, notes that "perfection was their undoing" and by 1842 the Rockingham firm was again bankrupt and the site was closed.
In 1997, Chaleff accepted a professorship from Hofstra University, where he directed the ceramics program until retirement in 2021.
Similarly tantalum disulfide is prepared in a tube furnace followed by purification, also in a tube furnace using the technique of chemical vapor transport.
Canal Weston Lullingfields was a terminus of a branch of the Ellesmere Canal known as the Weston Branch.
In archaeology, they may be upside-down fired clay tripods, leaving characteristic marks at the bottoms of the pottery/porcelain.
The site was designated a Prefectural Historic Site in 1937 and was raised to national status in 2017.
The fire was attended by men with long staves and pitchforks who pushed the burning material into the pit.
The kilns produced celadon around the Shanglin Lake area during the Tang, Han, and Song dynasties are referred to as such.
In the sintering process, the powder is further heated to 1450 °C to activate the silica (SiO2) and allow it to combine with the lime and alumina (and iron oxide/blast furnace slag/flying gas) to form the clinker minerals.
ID-11, "Warren King Charcoal Kilns, Targhee National Forest, Leadore, Lemhi County, ID", 11 photos, 20 data pages, 2 photo caption pages
More than nine noborigama-style kilns were built in a valley, but during the Edo period a dam was built and submerged the site.
Various artifacts excavated included "Renbutsu" Buddhist votive statues in clay, roof tiles (including end tiles with a lotus motif) and titles giving the name of the temple as "Hōjō-ji".
The Kosugimaruyama Site (小杉丸山遺跡, Kosugimaruyama iseki) is an archaeological site with the ruins of a late Asuka period pottery production site located in what is now the Aoidani neighborhood of the city of Imizu, Toyama Prefecture in the Hokuriku region of Japan.
From the 18th century onwards, Hasami began to build huge kilns to mass-produce everyday products and reduce costs, a method that continued until the end of the Edo period.
The flat kilns have a semi-underground structure with a total length of about five meters, and both the combustion and firing sections are well preserved.
The strength of his works stems from their being rough, gestural, split, and impure while remaining elegant.
The site was one of several kilns surveyed by the Texas Historical Commission between 1973 and 1974.
The district includes the sites of three contributing buildings and one contributing site at the brickworks that operated from 1912 to 1957.
2 Mine, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Charcoal Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Soldier Creek Kilns, Stockton, Utah, NRHP-listed Frisco Charcoal Kilns, Milford, Utah, NRHP-listed == References ==
Gangjin Kiln Sites (Korean: 강진 고려청자 요지) refers to a number of Goryeo-era archaeological sites in Gangjin County, South Jeolla Province, South Korea.
The canal was originally intended to continue on to Shrewsbury, but was never completed as intended.
Further reading 刘涛 : 《当阳峪窑剔划花瓷器》 [Engraved ceramics from the Dangyangyu Kiln], Zhongyuan Wenwu 2000.01 (Beijing, 2000).
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Miyagi) References External links Miyagi Prefecture official site Archived 2015-07-08 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)
Overview The Kishibe tile kiln ruins are located halfway up the southern slope of Shikinzan hills, which extends from the Senri Hills to the right bank of the Yodo River and is part of the precincts of Kishibe Shrine.
Most of the artifacts found are cylindrical haniwa pieces, but figurative haniwa pieces of various types have also been found.
2 Mine, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Lime Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Soldier Creek Kilns, Stockton, Utah, NRHP-listed Frisco Charcoal Kilns, Milford, Utah, NRHP-listed == References ==
4 layers are distinguishable in this formation, from top to bottom: Member of Warchin Member of Gaurain-Ramecroix Calonne superior Calonne inferieure == References ==
Alternative fuels In addition to these primary fuels, various combustible waste materials have been fed to kilns.
An old wood tar oil recipe for the treatment of wood is one-third each genuine wood tar, balsam turpentine, and boiled or raw linseed oil or Chinese tung oil.
Their association with Stoke-on-Trent reflects the fact that the British ceramic industry was mainly based in that city.
A variety of different wares were manufactured during the kilns' history, including "jars, spittoons, wine pots, incense burners, cups, bowls, flasks, cases, writing-brush basins, dishes, handle-less cups, pots, wine cups, flat bowls, basins", and children's toys.
Until the construction of the large kilns, small kilns were scattered throughout the mountains of Uraibe and Kumayama areas of former Bizen Province.
Inbe Minami-Ogama site The Inbe Minami-Ogama site (伊部南大窯跡) is located at the northern foot of Mount Kayabara, approximately 200 meters south of Inbe Station on the JR West Ako Line.
In addition, one earthen basin was detected on the eastern slope and one on the northern slope, and one pit dwelling site was detected on the flat surface of the plateau.
Kotoge Kiln Site (小峠窯跡) - Products at this site featured ironwork decorations, brushstrokes, inlays, and stencil printing, and attempts were made to produce celadon and blue-and-white porcelain.
The design of kiln furniture system depends on the wares manufactured: structural clay products, dinnerware, tiles, electronics ceramics, sanitaryware, electrical porcelain, etc.
One of the four, the best-preserved, is an eastern beehive-type parabolic-shaped kiln, that would hold more than 10 cords of wood and would be tended from two iron doors.
The main fire chamber was at the bottom, but there might be additional "stoke holes" to allow adding extra fuel at intervals up the slope, as well as peep holes to allow sight of the interior.
The Goshogawara Sue Pottery Kiln Site (五所川原須恵器窯跡, Goshogawara Sueki kama ato) is an archaeological site consisting of the remains of Heian period kilns located in what is now the city of Goshogawara, Aomori Prefecture in the Tōhoku region of northern Japan.
The presence of kiln ruins was conformed in 1977 and an excavation survey was conducted over 5 years from 1988.
The kiln was most active for a one-hundred year period from the beginning of the 7th century to the beginning of the 8th century.
It reflects the first decade of gold mining in Australia, where lack of knowledge of the material was matched with a poverty of suitable equipment.
The Onjogadani Tile Kiln ruins (音如ヶ谷瓦窯跡) consist of four kiln remains and several post-hole buildings.
Gallery See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Gifu) References External links Media related to Motoyashiki Pottery Kiln at Wikimedia Commons Gifu Prefecture home page (in Japanese) Toki city home page (in Japanese)
These shards have been dated to the early Nara period, and the presence of small amounts of ash glazed pottery shards indicates that the site ay have been active through the late Nara period.
This underground climbing kiln was built by hollowing out granite bedrock on the slope of a hill during the Nara period.
Likewise it is two and a half miles from another Song production area known as the Jiaotanxia Kiln [郊坛下窑].
Ancient Nanfeng Kiln's mouth faces southwards, while banyan trees are clustered at the back of the Furnace, and cold wind will do occur in the summer, therefore, it's called "Nanfeng Kiln".
It was first isolated from the rumen fluid of Hanwoo cattle in South Korea and described as a novel species in 2022.
Epiphytic bacteria are removed from the plant surface through ultraviolet radiation, chemical surface disinfection, and washing .
In current studies it has been determined that epiphytic bacteria generally doesn't harm the plant, but promote the formation of ice crystals.
These heterotrophic microbes, which produce CO2 as a waste product of respiration and possibly organic acids, may help to dissolve the carbonate.
coli strains are present in a water sample allows researchers to make assumptions about whether the contamination originated from a human, another mammal, or a bird.
eutactus is also recognized as a butyrate-producing bacterium, contributing to colonic health by fermenting dietary fibers into short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs).
Individual strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Neisseria meningitidis can contain multiple, independently switching mod genes; for example, N.
It was first described in 2013 to accommodate the newly isolated species Fusicatenibacter saccharivorans, a butyrate-producing anaerobe from human feces.
References External links Type strain of Thermoanaerobacter italicus at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
These expressions let Atribacterota to be able to create catabolic and anabolic functions which are necessary to generate cellular reproduction, even when the energy levels are limited due to the depletion of dissolved oxygen in the areas of sea waters, fresh waters, or ground waters.
Rhodopirellula caenicola is a Gram-negative, strictly aerobic and non-motile bacterium from the genus of Rhodopirellula which has been isolated from isolated from iron sand.
Cell growth which gives rise to reproductive asymmetry occurs in three phases: stalk elongation, daughter cell elongation, and septum formation.
Escherichia are facultative aerobes, with both aerobic and anaerobic growth, and an optimum temperature of 37 °C.
Butyrate serves as a primary energy source for colonocytes and plays a role in reducing inflammation, enhancing gut barrier integrity, and modulating immune responses.
Site-specific recombination Site-specific recombinations are usually short and occur at a single target site within the recombining sequence.
History Victivallis vadensis was originally known as strain CelloT, as it is able to use cellobiose as a carbon source.
"Clostridium paradoxum DSM 7308T contains multiple 16S rRNA genes with heterogeneous intervening sequences".
ubique whose small 1.3 Mb genome is seemingly devoid of extraneous genetic elements like non-coding DNA, transposons, extrachromosomal elements etc.
Ultramicrobacteria have also been recovered from soil and appear to be a mixture of gram-positive, gram-negative and cell-wall-lacking species.
Several of its carotenoid metabolic pathways (including a novel lycopene cyclase) have similar counterparts in cyanobacteria.
Holdemanella porci is a species of Gram-positive, strictly anaerobic bacteria in the family Erysipelotrichaceae.
References Further reading Cayol, Jean-Luc; Fardeau, Marie-Laure; Garcia, Jean-Louis; Ollivier, Bernard (2002).
Cetobacterium ceti is a Gram-negative, and rod-shaped obligately anaerobic bacterium from the genus Cetobacterium which has been isolated from sea mammals.
References External links Type strain of Haliangium ochraceum at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Fecal contamination usually occurs through excretion by bathers, other animals, or contaminated water sources.
The genus was established in 2020 following the isolation of its type species, Absicoccus porci, from pig feces in South Korea.
"Biochemical Evidence for Formate Transfer in Syntrophic Propionate-Oxidizing Cocultures of Syntrophobacter fumaroxidans and Methanospirillum hungatei".
Solidesulfovibrio aerotolerans is a Gram-negative, mesophilic, sulphate-reducing and oxygen tolerant bacterium from the genus of Solidesulfovibrio which has been isolated from activated sludge in Denmark.
It can be commensal (innocuous, coexisting organism) in the gastrointestinal tract of humans and animals, but it may also be pathogenic, causing diseases such as neonatal meningitis or endocarditis.
This regulation of other surface elements favors the formation and use of cellulose degrading enzymes.
The several different surface antigen proteins are all silent apart from one and all share a conserved region at the 5' end.
Phylogeny The currently accepted taxonomy is based on the List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature (LPSN) and National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) == References ==
faecium isolates often varied and adapted their substrate usage even within the same patient, indicating high intra-host metabolic diversity.
Ecology Cyanobacteria can be found in almost every terrestrial and aquatic habitat – oceans, fresh water, damp soil, temporarily moistened rocks in deserts, bare rock and soil, and even Antarctic rocks.
The most important of these proteins is relaxase, which is responsible for beginning the conjugation process by cutting at the nic site via transesterification.
It has also been recognized as a causative agent of enteritis in cattle, but it is an uncommon human pathogen.
TraM plays a particularly important role in relaxase interaction by stimulating 'relaxed' DNA formation.
Chromosomal cpe (c-cpe) strains are exclusively isolated from food samples, while p-cpe strains are found in non-food borne samples.
Deferrisoma palaeochoriense is a thermophilic, anaerobic and mixotrophic bacterium from the genus Deferrisoma which has been isolated from a hydrothermal vent from the Palaeochori Bay from Greece.
Cable bacteria are defined by their function rather than their phylogeny, and it is possible that further cable bacteria taxa will be discovered.
It was originally isolated from a geothermal aquifer more than 500 m below the surface of the Earth.
morganii can produce the enzyme catalase, so it is able to convert hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen.
It was first isolated from the gastrointestinal tract of pigs and described in 2020 as part of a large-scale effort to culture and characterize pig gut microbiota.
tertium distinguishes itself from other clostridia as a non-toxin producing, aerotolerant, non-histotoxic and non-lipolytic species.
eutactus has been associated with various health benefits, including a lower risk of colorectal cancer and improved metabolic outcomes.
However, these cases suggest that the bacteria may be low-virulence and may be a larger threat to elderly and immunocompromised populations.
A phylogenetic analysis of 20 genes and pseudogenes, isolated to 5 conserved protein genes, was used to construct phylogenetic trees displaying long terminal branches from the nodes, suggesting speciation occurred long ago.
The genus is known for producing many types of antibiotics, including Vancomycin, obtained from Amycolatopsis orientalis, is being used for infections resistant to other antibiotics.
(2002) The response of field-grown rice to inoculation with a multi-strain biofertiliser in the Hanoi district, Vietnam.
Metallogenium is a proposed genus of bacteria that has an affinity to form star-shaped manganese oxide minerals.
The organism is catalase- and oxidase-negative, produces acid from mannose, and tolerates up to 1% NaCl.
The genus was first described in 2021 following the isolation and genome-based characterization of the type species, Inconstantimicrobium porci, from the feces of a domestic pig in Germany.
The growth range is 35 to 75 °C and pH 5.5 to 8.5, with the optimum growth conditions of 63 °C at pH 7.5.
The proteinases are capable of digesting burn eschars, and may be useful for removal of burn tissue from wounds.
Through SSM the TA repeat region can undergo addition or subtraction of TA dinucleotides which results in the reversible ON phase or OFF phase of transcription of the hifA and hifB.
It has a commensal relationship within the intestinal tracts of humans, mammals, and reptiles as normal flora.
Biberstein, an American bacteriologist Bizionia – Bartolomeo Bizio, an Italian naturalist Blautia – Michael Blaut, a German microbiologist Bordetella – Jules Bordet, a Belgian microbiologist Borkar – Suresh Borkar, an Indian scientist Borrelia – Amédée Borrel, a French scientist Bosea – J.
Depletion of oxygen in such zones leads to preference of anaerobic processes such as denitrification and nitrogen loss through anammox.
References External links https://web.archive.org/web/20110605181224/http://www.mun.ca/biochem/courses/4103/topics/catabintro.html http://pathmicro.med.sc.edu/mayer/geneticreg.htm
pyriformis is able to synthesize at least five protein-forming amino acids including selenocysteine.
Phase-variation of the modA2 allele also results in NTHi populations with distinct advantages under oxidative stress and increased resistance to neutrophil killing.
Bacteria of this phylum share several of their characteristics with other ultra-small bacteria, nanometric size, small genomes, reduced metabolism, and low capacity to synthesize nucleotides and aminoacids.
Asymmetrical growth aids in determining the age of bacteria, because it gives rise to an old pole, or region of inert cell wall material found at the ends of a rod-shaped bacterial cell.
The name of the genus comes from Gelre (present province of Gelderland), one of the 12 provinces in The Netherlands.
lepromatosis is an obligate intracellular parasite that reproduces only in host cells, a fact that researchers have speculated explains why its culturing in the laboratory has been unsuccessful.
Paraclostridium bifermentans, formerly known as Clostridium bifermentans and abbreviated CLOBI, is an anaerobic, motile, gram-positive bacterium.
Composite inoculants The combination of strains of Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) has been shown to benefit rice and barley.
The following are implicit in the colonization process: ability to survive inoculation onto seed, to multiply in the spermosphere (region surrounding the seed) in response to seed exudates, to attach to the root surface, and to colonize the developing root system.
leprae, has not been cultured in the laboratory because it lacks genes necessary to grow outside its hosts.
"Pure Culture of Syntrophus buswellii, Definition of its Phylogenetic Status, and Description of Syntrophus gentianae sp.
Under controlled continuous plant conditions, the number of bacterial cells and their activity is optimised to attain the highest rate of sulfide oxidation.
In the pushing mode, the rotating flagella (assembled in a bundle or as an open tuft of individual filaments) drive the motion from the rear end of the cell body.
Wallrabenstein, Christina; Gorny, Norbert; Springer, Nina; Ludwig, Wolfgang; Schink, Bernhard (1995).
LcrV is a multifunctional protein that has been shown to act at the level of secretion control by binding the Ysc inner-gate protein LcrG and to modulate the host immune response by altering cytokine production.
nov., a sulfur-disproportionating bacterium isolated from a hot spring, and emended description of the genus Caldimicrobium".
Rather, research efforts have typically sampled much larger volumes of water and made comparisons from one sampling site to another.
By oxidation of nitrite to nitrate they are important in the process of nitrification in marine environments.
For example, diabetes can cause intestinal neuropathy, pancreatitis, leading to pancreatic insufficiency can impair digestive enzyme production, and bile may be affected as part of cirrhosis of the liver.
A pilus on the F+ cell interacts with the recipient cell allowing formation of a mating junction, the DNA is nicked on one strand, unwound and transferred to the recipient.
Indeed, of the 80 newly released TB-infected inmates in Fry et al.'s study, 73.8% did not report visiting a community dispensary for further treatment.
tertium has been isolated in neutropenic and nonneutropenic patients, and in cases of necrotizing fasciitis and gangrene.
Eukaryotic flagella are complex cellular projections that lash back and forth, rather than in a circular motion.
Newer phylogenetic studies have found that Entomoplasmatales was not monophyletic like Tully had believed, but paraphyletic.
It produces penicillin amidase used to make synthetic penicillin, various amylases used in the baking industry and glucose dehydrogenase used in glucose blood tests.
morganii strains are resistant to penicillin, ampicillin/sulbactam, oxacillin, first-generation and second-generation cephalosporins, macrolides, lincosamides, fosfomycin, colistin, and polymyxin B.
Pro-legitimate Candidatus names compete with each other for priority, but do not compete with "real" legitimate names.
Types There are different types of bacteria that are found in swimming pools and other types of recreational waters.
tepidum contains genes that play an important role in the methylation of the C-8 and C-12 carbons of bacteriochlorophyll C.
On the subject of the ETC, an adaptation to living in the mine environment is in the use of different ETC electron acceptors to neutralophiles; sulfur, arsenic, selenium, uranium, iron, and manganese in solid form rather than O2 (most commonly Fe in dissimilatory iron reduction, frequent in AMD).
is a strain of Staphylococcus aureus that gives resistance to vancomycin at a frequency of 10−6 colonies or even higher.
Its cells are gram-negative and are approximately 2.4–3.9 micrometres long and 0.5–0.6 micrometres wide; they are motile rods with polar flagella.
C novyi type A alpha-toxin is unique in using UDP-N-acetylglucosamine rather than UDP-glucose as a substrate.
Crabtree, an American microbiologist Crossiella – Thomas Cross, a British microbiologist Dasania – Dasan, a Korean scientist Deleya – Jozef De Ley, a Belgian microbiologist Derxia – H.
"The Intracellular pH of Clostridium paradoxum, an Anaerobic, Alkaliphilic, and Thermophilic Bacterium." Applied and Environmental Microbiology 62.12 (1996): 4576–4579.
The archaea of the Nanobdellati kingdom are ultra-small archaea that share the same characteristics with these bacteria and are the most basal group of the archaeo-eukaryotic clade, although it can also be paraphyletic of eukaryotes and the other archaea as will be seen below.
Wefers, Daniel; Dong, Jia; Abdel-Hamid, Ahmed M.; Paul, Hans Müller; Pereira, Gabriel V.; Han, Yejun; Dodd, Dylan; Baskaran, Ramiya; Mayer, Beth; Mackie, Roderick I.; Cann, Isaac; Kelly, Robert M.
Campylobacter jejuni is not competent until the exogenous genetic material is confirmed by the cell to be Campylobacter jejuni DNA.
It was discovered by Harrison et al., 2014 to be due to a species nova which they named Candidatus Phytoplasma palmicola and assigned to novel Candidatus Phytoplasma subgroup 16SrXXII-B.
aureus within the general population and significant number of severe infections caused by this bacteria, decolonization protocols have been implemented in many hospital networks to decrease MRSA infections.
Phosphorus can cause eutrophication, and hydrogen sulfide can be toxic to marine life, meaning that cable bacteria play an important role in maintaining marine ecosystems in coastal areas.
References External links Type strain of Blautia obeum at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
"Sulfate Reduction and Possible Aerobic Metabolism of the Sulfate-Reducing Bacterium Desulfovibrio oxyclinae in a Chemostat Coculture with Marinobacter sp.
In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published Rapid Bioassessment Protocols, in 1999, based on measuring macroinvertebrates, as well as periphyton and fish for assessment of water quality.
Varibaculum anthropi is a Gram-positive and strictly anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium from the genus of Varibaculum which was first isolated from human urine from Gothenburg in Sweden.
It is possible that moonmilk forms when water dissolves and softens the karst in caves, carrying dissolved nutrients that are used by microbes, such as Actinomycetes.
However, it is not mandatory, or even customary, when giving the name of a species, to include the subgeneric name.
Species As of July 2025, the genus Absicoccus includes only one validly published species: Absicoccus porci References External links LPSN entry for Absicoccus NCBI Taxonomy Browser: Absicoccus BacDive entry for Absicoccus porci
Xenophyophores are multinucleate unicellular organisms found on the ocean floor throughout the world's oceans, at depths of 500 to 10,600 metres (1,600 to 34,800 ft).
Molecular Phylogenetic Characterization of High Altitude Soil Microbial Communities and Novel, Uncultivated Bacterial Lineages.
In zoological nomenclature, when a genus is split into subgenera, the originally described population is retained as the "nominotypical subgenus" or "nominate subgenus", which repeats the same name as the genus.
The fatal infection occurred in an 8-month-old girl with purpura fulminans and co-infection by Yersinia pseudotuberculosis.
This produces a solid neutralisation precipitate containing largely calcium sulfate, basic iron(III) arsenate and iron(III) hydroxide.
"Two Clusters among Mycoplasma haemomuris Strains, Defined by the 16S–23S rRNA Intergenic Transcribed Spacer Sequences".
With 107-1011 bacteria, 400-plus species, and variations between individuals, there are many complications in the study of a normal gastrointestinal system.
veterinary surgeon Samsonia – Régine Samson, a French phytobacteriologist Scardovia – Vittorio Scardovi, an Italian microbiologist Aeriscardovia, Parascardovia, Alloscardovia, Metascardovia: Schineria – Ignaz Rudolph Schiner, who first described the fly Wohlfahrtia magnifica Schlegelella – H.
In contrast to many bacilli-shaped bacteria, most cocci bacteria do not have flagella and are non-motile.
The plant can give upwards of 5-30% of its energy production to the fungi in exchange for increasing the root absorptive area with hyphae which gives the plant access to nutrients it would otherwise not be able to attain.
The T-DNA of the Ri-plasmid affects the plant host by modifying organ differentiation patterns, enhancing cell division, and making the abnormal tissue produce opines to feed the bacterium.
40 specimens of Marpolia are known from the Greater Phyllopod bed, where they comprise 0.08% of the community.
History Clostridium tertium was initially isolated from war wounds by Captain Herbert Henry (RAMC) in 1917, but it was not until the first human cases of C.
2024 Planococcaceae Peshkoff 1939 {Caryophanales Peshkoff 1939 [Bacillales_A]} "Rubeoparvulales" Staphylococcales Chuvochina et al.
For example, the platypus belongs to the genus Ornithorhynchus although George Shaw named it Platypus in 1799 (these two names are thus synonyms).
2023 Class "Kryptonia" "Kryptoniales" Class "Ignavibacteriia" Oren, Parte & Garrity 2016 ex Cavalier-Smith 2022 Ignavibacteriales Iino et al.
Within Plantae, Tracheophyta (vascular plants) make up the largest component, with 23,236 ± 5,379 accepted genus names, of which 20,845 ± 4,494 are angiosperms (superclass Angiospermae).
Caldimicrobium is an anaerobic thermophile which is roughly 1.0–1.2 micrometers long and 0.5 micrometers wide.
pyriformis, and especially its reduced mitochondria, was largely driven by the possibility that oxymonads might be completely amitochondrial.
adolescentis are also adept at metabolizing lactose, and may reduce symptoms associated with lactose intolerance.
Molecular approaches using microbial and plant mutants altered in their ability to synthesize or respond to specific phytohormones have increased understanding of the role of phytohormone synthesis as a direct mechanism of plant growth enhancement by PGPRs.
Studies have found unusually high concentrations of radioactive nuclides in xenophyophores; this was first reported in Occultammina but has since been found to be true of many other xenophyophore species from different parts of the ocean.
Characteristics Members of the genus Absicoccus are Gram-positive, non-motile, and non-spore-forming cocci.
Chlorobaculum tepidum, previously known as Chlorobium tepidum, is an anaerobic, thermophilic green sulfur bacteria first isolated from New Zealand.
thermophilus is one of the most isolated bacterial species.[4] See also List of Bacteria genera List of bacterial orders References 4.
When F-prime plasmids are transferred to a recipient bacterial cell, they carry pieces of the donor's DNA that can become important in recombination.
Despite only few described species, members of this phylum are major nitrite-oxidizing bacteria in surface waters in oceans.
VRE symptoms Enterococcus infections, including VRE infections, cause a range of symptoms depending on the site of the infection.
They grow under facultatively anaerobic conditions, with optimal growth at 37 °C on brain heart infusion agar.
Originally described under Desulfovibrio, it was reassigned to Fundidesulfovibrio by Galushko and Kuever in 2021.
Levilinea is a bacteria genus from the family of Anaerolineaceae with one known species (Levilinea saccharolytica).
They are able to produce viscous transparent exopolymers and grow attached to each other by the polymer in a three-dimensional configuration.
Absorption of DNA by competent cells can also contribute to DNA repair by creating a template for recombination, which has been specifically observed in Sulfolobus spp.
The genus was proposed following the reclassification of the species previously known as Olsenella faecalis, after genome sequencing and 16S rRNA gene analysis revealed that it formed a separate lineage distinct from other members of the genus Olsenella.
Hierarchy of ranks Zoology For some clades covered by the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, several additional classifications are sometimes used, although not all of these are officially recognized.
Further Information Complete genome sequence of Aminobacterium colombiense type strain (ALA-1T) Proteomes - Aminobacterium colombiense (strain DSM 12261 / ALA-1) == References ==
tepidum differs from other green sulfur bacteria in that it cannot easily use H2 or Fe2+ as electron donors, relying on elemental sulfur, sulfide, and thiosulfate instead.
Mod genes are the methyltransferase component of type III restriction modification (R-M) systems in bacteria, and serve to protect host DNA from the action of the associated restriction enzyme.
As Gram-negative bacteria, they have two cell-enveloping membranes, with each cell having its own individual inner cell membrane, but the outer cell membrane is shared by all cells in a filament.
aureus has a strong resistance to chlorine, which is one of the methods by which pools are often cleaned.
Acetate is converted by syntrophales into acetyl-CoA, which can be used as a source of carbon and energy.
Swine have been used repeatedly to understand the human decomposition process in terrestrial environments.
According to phylogenetic analysis, Atribacterota appears to be related to several thermophilic phyla within Pseudomonadati.
Studies have shown that the bacterium exhibits vegetative growth in soil rich in organic matter, and that spores were formed when nutrients were depleted.
Dethiosulfovibrio peptidovorans is an anaerobic, slightly halophilic, thiosulfate-reducing bacterium.
Zhenhengia is a genus of Gram-positive and strictly anaerobic bacteria in the family Lachnospiraceae.
obeum along with other relevant taxa play an important role both in the recovery process from Vibrio cholerae infection and microbiota maturation in children.
It is a commensal species with its host organism but has the ability to colonize and create infection.
Patients infected or colonized with VRE may be cared for in any patient care setting with minimal risk of transmission to other patients, provided appropriate infection control measures are taken.
Amycolatopsis carbonis showed broad antifungal activity against several filamentous fungi and also antibacterial activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Acinetobacter baumannii.
Several of these physical traits are of interest in the commercial breeding of horticultural and agricultural plants.
References Further reading Sashida, Hinakp; Sasaoka, Fumina; Suzuki, Jin; Fujihara, Masatoshi; Nagai, Kazuya; Fujita, Hiromi; Kadosaka, Teruki; Ando, Shuji; Harasawa, Ryo (2012).
Etymology The name Inconstantimicrobium is derived from Latin: inconstans ("variable" or "inconstant") and microbium ("microbe"), referring to its variable morphology and growth behavior.
Thus, the genes accountable for the toxicity towards Anopheles are different than those controlled by the cry operon; rather, the toxins selectively target Aedes mosquito larvae, in which they cause high mortality.
By using disinfectants over an extended period of time, decolonization decreases or minimizes patient bacterial load.
The relatively small size of ultramicrobacteria also enables parasitism of larger organisms; some ultramicrobacteria have been observed to be obligate or facultative parasites of various eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
Several cases of bacteremia have been attributed to prior infection or surgery on the biliary tract and liver, suggesting that E.
Although VRSA infections are uncommon, VRSA is often resistant to other types of antibiotics and a potential threat to public health because treatment options are limited.
Aminobacterium colombiense is a Gram-negative, mesophilic, strictly anaerobic and non-spore-forming bacterium from the genus of Aminobacterium which has been isolated from anaerobic lagoon from a dairy wastewater treatment plant in Colombia.
However, the name Platypus had already been given to a group of ambrosia beetles by Johann Friedrich Wilhelm Herbst in 1793.
Syntrophobacter fumaroxidans is a species of syntrophic propionate-degrading sulfate-reducing bacterium.
References External links Type strain of Aerococcus vaginalis at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
The conductivity of single, live filaments was later demonstrated by observing the oxidation state of cytochromes using Raman microscopy.
See also Drug resistance References Further reading Chang, Soju; Sievert, Dawn M.; Hageman, Jeffrey C.; Boulton, Matthew L.; Tenover, Fred C.; Downes, Frances Pouch; Shah, Sandip; Rudrik, James T.; Pupp, Guy R.
Heliothrix oregonensis is a phototrophic filamentous, gliding bacterium containing bacteriochlorophyll a that is aerotolerant and photoheterotrophic.
Organisms in this group are spherical and have a holdfast, at the tip of a thin cylindrical extension from the cell body called the stalk, at the nonreproductive end that helps them to attach to each other during budding.
The species was named italicus in reference to the Italian hot springs in which it was first isolated.
faecium have a higher mortality rate compared to those caused by Enterococcus faecalis (37% vs 32%).
Researchers discovered that it grows best in liquid or soft agar with one of the following sugars: cellobiose, fructose, galactose, glucose, lactose, lactulose, maltose, maltotriose, mannitol, melibiose, myo-inositol, raftilose, rhamnose, ribose, sucrose, and xylose, which it uses fermentatively.
Morphology Cloacibacillus evryensis is a Gram-negative nonmotile organism with rod shaped cells that are commonly seen as diplococci.
The npt I gene in place of the T-DNA in EHA101 requires that binary plasmids that are put into the strain encode a drug resistance other than kanamycin.
Lentimonas is a bacterial genus from the family of Puniceicoccaceae with one known species (Lentimonas marisflavi).
These factors consist of certain cell surface proteins and transcription factors that induce the uptake of DNA.
It was first described in 2021 based on the isolation of its type species, Floccifex porci, from the feces of a pig in Germany.
However, further 16S ribosomal RNA studies put this bacterium into genus Thermoanaerobacter and the previous genus was no longer necessary.
aureus) is a common cause of hospital related infections, including bloodstream infections and infections of the heart and bone.
For example, biophysical studies on its naturally supercoiled state have determined its radius of gyration to be 65.6 nm and its Stokes radius to be 43.6 nm.
Singulisphaera is a moderately acidophilic and mesophilic genus of bacteria from the family Isosphaeraceae.
The toxin is a large 250-kDa protein the active part of which is the NH2-terminal 551 amino acid fragment.
2024 (WPS2) Order "Eremiobacterales" Ward, Cardona & Holland-Moritz 2019 Family "Eremiobacteraceae" Ji et al.
Furthermore, they noted that the higher the pH of the pool, the more bacteria were present in the water.
"Introduction to Quaternary carbonate and evaporite sedimentary facies and their ancient analogues." Int.
Iron is absorbed in the more proximal parts of the small bowel, the duodenum and jejunum, and patients with malabsorption of iron can develop a microcytic anemia, with small red blood cells.
"Enzyme activities in and energetics of acetate metabolism by the mesophilic syntrophically acetate-oxidizing anaerobe Clostridium ultunense".
Ruminococcus are also less abundant in patients with Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
In these organisms the DNA methyltransferase phase varies between two states (ON or OFF) by variation in the number of SSRs in the mod gene.
When these two conditions are satisfied, it means for the bacteria that glucose is absent and lactose is available.
It seems they only attack collagenous material already partially degraded by the beta-toxin, and aid in the nutrition of H.
References External links LPSN entry for Paratractidigestivibacter NCBI Taxonomy Browser: Paratractidigestivibacter BacDive entry for Paratractidigestivibacter faecalis
"Oxygen-Dependent Growth of the Sulfate-Reducing Bacterium Desulfovibrio oxyclinae in Coculture withMarinobacter sp.
In those species which are inhabitants of the gastrointestinal tracts of warm-blooded animals, Escherichia species provide a portion of the microbially derived vitamin K for their host.
nov., an extremely thermophilic, facultatively lithoautotrophic, anaerobic bacterium from the Uzon Caldera, Kamchatka".
When these cells are then heat shocked (ex., 30 seconds at 42 degrees Celsius), they are able to take up both single or double stranded DNA and can either incorporate it into their genome, or the DNA can exist as a plasmid within the cell.
Caldanaerobius is a genus of thermophilic, obligately anaerobic bacteria from the family Thermoanaerobacteraceae.
Ascaris and whipworm that are identified in reusable wastewater systems can cause certain diseases and complications if ingested by humans and pigs.
Researchers discovered a protein that allows the bacterium Vibrio cholerae to morph into a corkscrew shape that likely helps it twist into — and then escape — the protective mucus that lines the inside of the gut.
ruminicola cells are Gram-positive, non-motile cocci that are negative for both oxidase and catalase.
Bifidobacterium adolescentis contributes to the production of GABA, a neurotransmitter that plays a role in reducing stress and anxiety.
Thermodesulforhabdus norvegica is a species of thermophilic sulfate-reducing bacteria, the type and only species of its genus.
Non-pigmented epiphytic bacteria have high a GC content in their genome, a characteristic which protects the bacteria from the ultraviolet rays of the sun.
Sneathia amnii is a bacterium from the genus of Sneathia which has been isolated from human blood from Strasbourg in France.
See also Gut microbiota Short-chain fatty acid Erysipelotrichaceae References External links LPSN entry for Holdemanella porci DSMZ entry for Holdemanella porci NCBI Taxonomy Browser: Holdemanella porci
It grows optimally at 37 °C under strictly anaerobic conditions and forms creamy colonies on standard anaerobic media after 72 hours.
"Officials from the Monroe County Department of Public Health closed down the Golden Ponds after more than a fourth of its Thanksgiving Day guests became ill.
Although it can be considered an uncommon pathogen in humans, there has been substantial evidence of septic episodes in human beings.
2017 S15B-MN24 ["Sericytochromatia"; "Tanganyikabacteria"] UBA7694 ["Blackallbacteria"] Class Vampirovibrionia Chuvochina et al.
The rpoB and hspa5 gene sequences were also analyzed, displaying speciation from its two most related ancestors of Mycobacterium, M.
Phylogenetic analyzes have suggested that Nomurabacteria and the other ultra-small bacteria make up the most basal clade of all bacteria.
They have relatively small genomes, utilizing their host organisms natural processes to further their growth and survival.
Carl Linnaeus was the first to apply it consistently to the division of all three kingdoms of nature (then minerals, plants, and animals) in his Systema Naturae (1735, 1st.
History Cell division asymmetries have appeared alongside the evolution of complex developmental processes.
Etymology The genus name Zhenhengia honors Zhenheng Zhu, a prominent figure in traditional Chinese medicine.
Function When an F+ cell conjugates/mates with an F− cell, the result is two F+ cells, both capable of transmitting the plasmid to other F− cells by conjugation.
See also References External links Bacillus subtilis antibiotics: structures, syntheses and specific functions Bioremediation of fipronil by a Bacillus firmus isolate from soil Bioprospecting for Microbial Endophytes and Their Natural Products - 2003
Ultramicrobacteria are commonly confused with ultramicrocells, the latter of which are the dormant, stress-resistant forms of larger cells that form under starvation conditions (i.e.
Metabolism Cloacibacillus evryensis is a chemoheterotroph that normally degrades amino acids but can also use mucin as a carbon source.
Conditional asymmetry is well defined in the case of endospore formation, which is triggered by stressful environmental conditions such as increased heat, pH change, and nutrient depletion.
When originally described it was placed in its own subclass (Spahaerobacteridae) within the class Actinomycetota.
References External links Moonmilk and Cave-dwelling Microbes Micromonas bipunctata The Virtual Cave: Moonmilk Novedades Rio Subterráneo de Leche de Luna (Spanish)
This treatment has restored contractured fingers to full extension 30 days after the last injection in 64% of joints injected with collagenase costridium histolyticum.
Cetobacterium ceti represents a hitherto unknown line of descent peripherally associated to the fusobacteria and low G + C relatives.
Recently, many of Bacteroides species are being recognized as actually belonging to other genera, like Porphyromonas and Prevotella.
"Detection of WWE2-related Lentisphaerae by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and fluorescence in situ hybridization in landfill leachate".
Habitat and range Xenophyophores are an important part of the deep sea-floor, as they have been found in all four major ocean basins.
Zhou, Jizhong; He, Qiang; Hemme, Christopher L.; Mukhopadhyay, Aindrila; Hillesland, Kristina; Zhou, Aifen; He, Zhili; Van Nostrand, Joy D.; Hazen, Terry C.; Stahl, David A.; Wall, Judy D.; Arkin, Adam P.
References External links Type strain of Varibaculum anthropi at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Archaeosphaeroides is a fossil genus of probable coccoid cyanobacterium known from microfossils discovered in the Fig Tree Group of South Africa, as well as the Warrawoona Group of Western Australia.
External links LPSN Type strain of Deferribacter desulfuricans at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
These bacteria are rod-shaped and stain Gram-negative, although the cell structure is Gram-positive.
There are currently 46 species of Marinobacter that are characterized by Gram-negative rods and salt-tolerance.
Moonmilk (sometimes called mondmilch, also known as bergmilch, montmilch, or cave milk) is a white, creamy substance found inside limestone, dolomite, and possibly other types of caves.
piliforme was assigned to the genus Clostridium, where it was later ordered to the Cluster XIVb, being closely related to C.
Additional Bacillus isolates include gamma-D-Glutamyl-meso-diaminopimelate peptidase, sonorensin, gamma-cyclodextrin, 2,5-Diketopiperazines, laccases, bacteriocin, paenicidin A, tridecaptin A₁, and paenicidin B.
Its name derived from the "flavus" the Latin word for yellow due to the bright yellow pigment that it produces.
In this alternative pathway CcpA negatively represses other sugar operons so they are off in the presence of glucose.
Legumes are often able to colonize early successional environments due to the unavailability of nutrients.
Small sets of indicator species can also be used to predict species richness for multiple taxonomic groups.
Notable formations The world's largest formation of brushite moonmilk is found in the Big Room of Kartchner Caverns State Park in southern Arizona.
kivui has been shown (with a technical readiness level of 4), to produce acetate with an input of H2 and CO2.
It has been suggested that the mysterious Vendobionta of the Ediacaran period represent fossil xenophyophores.
Stromatolites provide ancient records of life on Earth by fossil remains which date from 3.5 Ga ago.
Typically, patients use chlorhexidine shampoo or body wash daily and mupirocin nasal spray twice daily.
Different bacteria prefer different plants and different plant organs depending on the organ's nutritional content, and depending on the bacteria's colonization system which is controlled by the host plant.
A large amount of energy is available to the acidophile through proton movement across the membrane, but with it comes cytoplasmic acidity.
Currently, this class is represented by a single order of bacteria, with only one family to which belongs a genus (Coprothermobacter) of non-motile, rod-shaped microorganisms that stain Gram-negative, are non-spore-forming, strictly anaerobic, thermophilic and chemoautotroph.
Some produce an auxin hormone which promotes plant growth and plays a role in the life cycle of the bacteria.
coli O157:H7 List of bacterial genera named after personal names References External links Escherichia genomes and related information at PATRIC, a Bioinformatics Resource Center funded by NIAID
A shared characteristic of many groups of archaeal viruses is the folded structure of the major capsid protein (MCP).
Phylogenic analysis based on 16s rRNA place it within Thermomicrobia class, as close relative to Thermorudis peleae.
Universal Clearance to Eliminate methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), was completed in September 2011.
Since 2024, these names can be "pro-validly published" and become "pro-legitimate" and "pro-correct".
A biochemical analysis found that the mosquitocidal cry toxin is coded by four genes in an operon: cry16Aa, cry17Aa, cbm17.1, and cbm17.2.
the K-12 strain commonly used in recombinant DNA work) are sufficiently different that they would merit reclassification.
Ureaplasma gallorale is a species of Ureaplasma, a genus of bacteria belonging to the family Mycoplasmataceae.
Interestingly, Thermomicrobium roseum and Thermorudis pharmacophila have an increased growth in both metronidazole and trimethoprim, a rare trait even within antibiotic resistant bacteria.
Some of these species were formerly included within the genus Clostridium, but after a taxonomic rearrangement of the class Clostridia, a phylogenetically distinct genus was identified, which was named Moorella in honor of the American microbiologist W.E.C.
Genome structure Deferribacter desulfuricans genome contains 2,23 Mbp with 2,184 protein coding genes.
In addition, it is speculated that PcrV determines the size of the needle pore for type III secreted effectors.
Victivallis vadensis is a species of Gram-negative, coccus-shaped, bacteria found in the human digestive tract.
Both the fragments can together hydrolyse X-gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D-galactopyranoside) and form blue colonies when grown on media where it is supplemented.
Specialized hospitals and treatment facilities within the prison system, known as TB colonies, are intended to isolate infected prisoners to prevent transmission; however, as Ruddy et al.
Moreover, this organism is very easy to handle and grow, making it a very useful tool for eco-toxicological assessments.
Probiotics are bacterial preparations that alter the bacterial flora in the bowel to cause a beneficial effect.
Classification Phylogeny Taxonomy National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) taxonomy and List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature (LPSN) were used as the primary taxonomic authority for establishing naming priorities.
There is no connection between the shape of a bacterium and its color upon Gram staining; there are both gram-positive rods and gram-negative rods.
Amycolatopsis carbonis is an actinobacterium from the genus Amycolatopsis that has been isolated from a coal mining site soil in Mongolia (Nalaikh coal mining site, Nalaikh, Mongolia).
The 2008 and 2022 Revisions have been published in the International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology (IJSEM).
Some archaeal viruses, namely viruses of Adnaviria, package their DNA in A-form as a result of an interaction between the MCP and B-form pre-genomic DNA.
DNA repair Cyanobacteria are challenged by environmental stresses and internally generated reactive oxygen species that cause DNA damage.
The first DNA helicase ever described is encoded on the F-plasmid and is responsible for initiating plasmid transfer.
The growth range for the organism is 50 to 72°C at pH 5.3-7.3, with optimal growth conditions at 66°C and pH 6.4.
"Enzymatic Mechanism for Arabinan Degradation and Transport in the Thermophilic Bacterium Caldanaerobius polysaccharolyticus".
The inversion is mediated by two recombinases, FimB and FimE, and regulatory proteins H-NS, Integration Host Factor (IHF) and Leucine responsive protein (LRP).
Symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeast (SCOBY) is a culinary symbiotic fermentation culture (starter) consisting of lactic acid bacteria (LAB), acetic acid bacteria (AAB), and yeast which arises in the preparation of sour foods and beverages such as kombucha.
Subsequently, phylogenetic studies have now placed it in its own order Sphaerobacterales within the phylum Thermomicrobiota.
Research into health benefits Bifidobacterium adolescentis has been studied for its health benefits, as strains have been shown to potentially protect against or improve recovery from several diseases, including liver-related, metabolic, allergic airway, colitis, arthritis, and bacterial infections.
Genetic relation can, however, still be shown between these viruses based on gene homology and synteny.
Inoculation with PGPRs ensures efficient nitrogen fixation, and they have been employed in North American agriculture for over 100 years.
Pathogenesis While many Escherichia are commensal members of the gut microbiota, certain strains of some species, most notably the pathogenic serotypes of E.
The neutralisation liquor, purified to contain an acceptable level of arsenic, can be re-used in the milling, flotation or bacterial oxidation circuits.
2021 Class Caulobacteria" Oren, Parte & Garrity 2016 ex Cavalier-Smith 2020 ?"Methylospongiales" Podell et al.
Moorella glycerini is a thermophilic, homoacetogenic, anaerobic and endospore-forming bacterium from the genus Moorella, which has been isolated from a hot spring from the Calcite Spring area from the Yellowstone National Park in the United States.
It was later renamed for an area in the Netherlands, known as "Food Valley", near the scientists at Wageningen University, who first identified the organism.
Coprothermobacter proteolyticus was originally isolated from a thermophilic digester that was fermenting tannery wastes and cattle manure.
"Evidence for a Chemiosmotic Model of Dehalorespiration in Desulfomonile tiedjeiDCB-1." Journal of Bacteriology 181.1 (1999): 40–46.
Archaea dominate high-temperature, low-pH hot springs worldwide, such as those in Yellowstone National Park, to the point where eukaryotes are absent and bacteria constitute only a small percentage of cellular biomass present.
Marpolia has been interpreted as a cyanobacterium, but also resembles the modern cladophoran green algae.
References External links Type strain of Desulfovibrio aminophilus at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Desulfonatronovibrio is a Gram-negative, vibrios, anaerobic and motile genus of bacteria from the family Desulfohalobiaceae with a single polar flagellum.
"Culturable diversity of lithotrophic haloalkaliphilic sulfate-reducing bacteria in soda lakes and the description of Desulfonatronum thioautotrophicum sp.
perfringens is an aerotolerant anaerobe bacterium that lives in a variety of environments including soil and human intestinal tract.
the tiger cowry of the Indo-Pacific, Cypraea (Cypraea) tigris Linnaeus, which belongs to the subgenus Cypraea of the genus Cypraea.
Because MDR tuberculosis is an airborne pathogen, persons with active, pulmonary tuberculosis caused by a multidrug-resistant strain can transmit the disease through coughing.
Phylogeny The currently accepted taxonomy is based on the List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature (LPSN) and National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI).
The bacterial oxidation process comprises contacting refractory sulfide ROM ore or concentrate with a strain of the bacterial culture for a suitable treatment period under an optimum operating environment.
2024 ("Baltobacterales"; "Palusbacterales"; "Rubrimentiphilales") Family Vulcanimicrobiaceae Yabe et al.
2024 Class Gloeobacteria Cavalier-Smith 2002 Gloeobacterales Cavalier-Smith 2002 Class Phycobacteria Cavalier-Smith 2002 Acaryochloridales Miyashita et al.
"Biochemical and Molecular Characterization of a Na+-Translocating F1Fo-ATPase from the Thermoalkaliphilic Bacterium Clostridium paradoxum".
This species is gram negative, non-motile, non-pigmented, aerobic, chemoheterotrophic, and facultatively oligotrophic sphere-shaped.
succinogenes List of methanogens in digestive tract of ruminants References External links Fibrobacter_succinogenes at NCBI taxonomy browser Type strain of Fibrobacter succinogenes at BacDive – the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Picrophilus torridus, for instance, has the highest coding density of any non-parasitic aerobic microorganism living on organic substrates.
The nanocellulose fibrils can also be extracted via acid hydrolysis and used in the food packaging, clothing, and wastewater treatment industries.
Strain MB in an Aerated Sulfate-Depleted Chemostat."Applied and Environmental Microbiology 66.11 (2000): 5019–5023.
These ultra-small bacteria, about 1 million base pairs long, display dense spirals of DNA, few ribosomes, hair-like fibrous appendages, and minimized metabolic systems.
The bacteria are selected for their dominance and persistence in the normal microflora of mice, and for their ability to be isolated and grown in laboratory settings.
Testing is problematical with figures presented by McLauchlin and Brazier [cited above] suggesting a false negative rate of about 40% under ideal conditions.
Desulfovibrio aminophilus is a Gram-negative, mesophilic, non-spore-forming, amino acid degrading and sulfate-reducing bacterium from the genus Desulfovibrio which has been isolated from an anaerobic lagoon from a dairy wastewater treatment plant in Santa Fe de Bogota in Colombia.
Reference samples of this plasmid are maintained by public biological resource centers, such as BCCM/GeneCorner.
It may have been free-floating or grown on other objects, although there is no evidence of attachment structures.
casseliflavus bacteremia found that malignancy and diabetes mellitus were the most common complications, suggesting that a compromised immune system may be a risk factor for developing E.
The ICNafp requires an explicit "connecting term" to indicate the rank of the division within the genus.
Vulcanimicrobiota is one of the two valid bacterial phyla that does not belong to any kingdom, the other being Fidelibacterota.
"Detection of the anaerobic dechlorinating microorganism Desulfomonile tiedjei in environmental matrices by its signature lipopolysacchride branched-long-chain hydroxy fatty acids".
coli) F-plasmid TraI protein is also responsible for both specific and non-specific single-stranded DNA binding as well as catalyzing the nicking of single-stranded DNA at the origin of transfer.
Beer and wine also undergo fermentation with yeast, but the lactic acid bacteria and acetic acid bacteria components unique to SCOBY are usually viewed as a source of spoilage rather than a desired addition.
However, spores may escape from the gut and lodge in any part of the body and result in spontaneous infection should local anaerobic conditions occur.
The new genus refers to the fact that this microorganism was originally isolated from manure and for its thermophilic qualities.
References External links StrainInfo: Thermanaeromonas toyohensis Type strain of Thermanaeromonas toyohensis at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
See also List of bacterial orders List of bacteria genera References External links Type strain of Thermoanaerobacter kivui at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
It is thermophilic, chemolithoautotrophic, non-spore-forming, marine species, with type strain SL6T (=DSM 14290T =JCM 11239T).
Patients with Crohn's disease or other diseases of the ileum may require surgery that removes the ileocecal valve connecting the small and large bowel; this leads to an increased reflux of bacteria into the small bowel.
Microbial colonization between humans and some non-human animals is so similar that those models can be used to understand the decomposition process for humans.
Brockia lithotrophica is a thermophilic bacterium from the genus Brockia which has been isolated from a sediment-water mixture from a hot spring in Uzon Caldera in Russia.
nov., a planctomycete from acidic Sphagnum peat, and emended description of the genus Singulisphaera".
Bacteria-caused illnesses hinge on the bacteria's physiology and their ability to interact with their environment, including the ability to shapeshift.
An immediately higher rank, superorder, is sometimes added directly above order, with suborder directly beneath order.
Grazzini was temperamental, his life consequently enlivened or disturbed by various literary quarrels.
Hudson, at the time of its publication, was practising as an apothecary in Panton Street, Haymarket, and from 1765 to 1771 acted as 'praefectus horti' to the Apothecaries' Company at the Chelsea Physic Garden.
He rejected the claim that Ireland was a conquered colony dependent on the government and parliament of Great Britain.
After the first 500 plates, Ehret realised that he was receiving a miserly payment and soon found new employment copying plates, while being able to produce other paintings independently.
He alleged that Shires had overstated his qualifications to gain the post of "Sergeant of the Confectionary", and had become a "servitour odoriferous" to the king.
Say was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the Tenth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Joseph Clay.
After honing his craft with Watts, Sherard moved to Mark Lane, London, where he started his own very successful business.
Margaret Douglas, Countess of Bothwell, whose husband Francis Stewart, 5th Earl of Bothwell was a rebel, had been shown some favour by the king at Hamilton Palace.
James Sherard (1 November 1666 – 12 February 1738) was an English apothecary, botanist, and amateur musician.
The other members included William Gregson, John Dobson, his cousin John Parr, Thomas Hodgson, Thomas Staniforth, George Case, Samuel Shaw, John Backhouse and James Caruthers.
Otto Tachenius wrote an Apologia in 1652 in which he declared Dieterich as a pseudo-chimicum (false chemist) and a fraud.
By his wife, Judith Chamberlaine, he had a son Abraham, who married Anne, daughter of Sir Richard Sandys of Northbourne Court, Kent; and a daughter, Anne, married to Sir Richard Sprignell, bart., of Coppenthorpe, Yorkshire.
He had been interested in ornithology from a young age and wished to make knowledge more widely available and had been especially influenced by the work of Emil Adolf Rossmässler.
He wrote parts of the multi-volume work Die Schmetterlinge Europas (The Lepidoptera of Europe), published in 1908.
Philippe Sylvestre Dufour (born Manosque 1622, died Vevey (Canton de Vaud) 1687) was a French Protestant apothecary, banker, collector, and writer based in Lyon.
Bernard was lampooned as "Horoscope" in Samuel Garth's The Dispensary: Bernard communicated to William Lilly in 1664 a theory on horoscopes for cities, and its application to the prediction of fires in London.
Several days later he found that the styrol had thickened, presumably due to polymerisation, into a jelly which he dubbed styrol oxide ("Stryroloxyd").
James MacCartney was a Scottish medical practitioner and apothecary in Edinburgh in the 1590s who collected information for the English diplomat Robert Bowes.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl (English: Ephraim Rinhold Seehl) (died in 1783) was an apothecary and chemist of German background, born in Sweden.
She managed the pharmacy until 1682, when she retired in favor of her son-in-law Jakob Leonard Allmacher (1652–1724).
He was appointed as the joint Professor of Anatomy to the Town’s College (which became the University of Edinburgh in 1708) to join Robert Eliot, who had been appointed in 1705, was the first to hold that post and was the first Professor of Anatomy in Britain.
Johnson knew little of Levet's background, but he seemed to cherish the awkward, unpolished man nonetheless.
Death and legacy Chase died without issue on 23 June 1721 leaving his estate to his widow and Dr Stephen Chase, the eldest son of his cousin, also Stephen Chase.
487-496 Observation sur les différents sels que l'on retire par la lixiviation des cendres du tamaris, pris en différents lieux, Académie royale des sciences, 1779, p.
In 1763, he repaid money that he had borrowed from the Lathrops, repurchased the family homestead that his father had sold when deeply in debt, and resold it a year later for a substantial profit.
After witnesses were interviewed and depositions given, the House of Representative voted that Myers was the winner of the election.
Silvanus subsequently married Martha Heathcote, the daughter of Gilbert Heathcote (1664-1719), a Quaker physician to King William III of England.
From 1707 to 1751, he published numerous articles in the Histoire et Mémoires de l'Académie royale des sciences.
David and Susan had nine children: David, Susan (who later became the sister-in-law to John Davis), Samuel, Mary, Jacob Morton, Sophia, William Brown, John, and Martha.
He is not to be confused with Ottmar Hofmann who was an entomologist specialising in Lepidoptera as well.
Background In the 1960s, there was increasing interest in Ontario for the historic preservation of buildings to prevent their demolition.
That training consisted mostly of apothecary study, as well as the occasional attendance at medical lectures.
Allen is known to have lived as a girl with the family of Joel Barlow, the poet and diplomat, and a friend of Craigie.
There is evidence that his nomination and acceptance into the Académie des Sciences was based on the importance of his publications on pharmacology rather than on his credentials as a scientific researcher, contrary to the usual practice of the day.
Shortly afterwards, the corporation having resolved to farm the revenues of the city to a certain Alderman, Lucas denounced the affair as a job, and the council in which the resolution had been passed as packed.
Her and her daughters’ Lutheran beliefs were publicly reaffirmed in their respective funeral sermons.
1787-1805 he worked as "druggist, medicine," from offices "three doors below the Drawbridge, Ann Street." He had trained "with Mr.
When they disobeyed, he bound them using sorcery." In spite of this incident, it seems that the Court continued to highly evaluate the herbal knowledge of Ozunu's school, since Vol.
Petiver received many specimens, seeds and much other material from overseas correspondents including Samuel Browne and Edward Bulkley in Madras, Jezreel Jones in Barbary, and the Czech Jesuit Georg Joseph Kamel in Manila.
Wiegleb was notably the teacher of Sigismund Friedrich Hermbstädt and Johann Friedrich August Göttling.
Political allegiance In the 1745 Jacobite uprising the Jacobite army under Prince Charles Edwart Stuart defeated a Government army under the command of General Sir John Cope at the Battle of Prestonpans.
He lived piously to the age of ninety-seven years, and worth (notwithstanding his many acts of publick and private charity) near as many thousand pounds as he was years, having thirty-seven children by one wife, and about sixty grandchildren at his funeral.
Her stepdaughter from this marriage, Sibylla of Anhalt, followed her influence and kept a court pharmacy at Stuttgart and Leonberg.
When that monarch determined in 1617 to incorporate the Society of Apothecaries, 114 apothecaries, being his majesty's ‘natural subjects,’ were nominated as members.
He ran as the Democratic party candidate for Pennsylvania's 3rd congressional district and on October 13, 1869, was determined the winner over Leonard Myers.
Parr and John Welch owned a slave-ship called Briton and in 1762 it was sent on a slave voyage to the Kingdom of Whydah in West Africa.
The Landuccis had twelve children together, and Luca remained at this location until his death in 1516.
En no Gyōja was conferred the posthumous title Jinben Daibosatsu (Great Bodhisattva Jinben, 神変大菩薩) at a ceremony held in 1799 to commemorate the one-thousandth year of his passing.
Supported by independent means, Ziz devoted himself to botany, undertaking field trips as far afield as southern France and the Pyrenees.
A letter of June 1596 mentioned a possible border raid near Carlisle and that Anne of Denmark, who was now pregnant, was moving to Dunfermline Palace, at the suggestion of the Octavians, a group of financial administrators with some overlap with her council.
He himself was not very proficient in Latin although he was a member of several scholarly societies and an educated gentleman.
The Ghibellines took over Florence at the Battle of Montaperti in 1260, forcing out many of the Guelphs.
Tenzing, a Tibetan title, means illustrious or divine, and momo is a yak-filled dumpling, so says manager Erik Smith...
He gained his doctorate in Freiburg with a monograph on the genus Cinchona ("Monographie der Gattung Cinchona L.").
Renward Brandstetter, Renward Cysat, 1545-1614: der Begründer der schweizerischen Volkskunde (1909).
Adam Drummond was born on the family estate at Megginch in Perthshire and went to the local school in Errol before matriculating at St.
He collaborated with Frederik Ruysch on the first volume of Jan Commelijn's "Horti Medici Amstelodamensis Rariorum" which appeared in 1697 and dealt mainly with plants from the East and West Indies.
At the time it was owned by Esther Ipp Schwartz, who had offered it to folklorist Don Yoder for study.
Agen in the early 17th century was at the crossroads of the religious debate revolving around the new Protestant faith.
Since 1875, a collection of his mosses has been kept at the British Museum of Natural History (250 specimens in 5 fascicles).
This was due not only to the preparation of new salts, but also to an increasing ability to distinguish between sodium and potassium compounds, and to a generalization of the concept so as to include many substances, such as the alums and vitriols (i.e., sulfates), that had been previously excluded.
Craigie was also fundamental in convincing Middlesex County authorities to move the Middlesex County Courthouse (Massachusetts) from Harvard Square to a new Charles Bulfinch-designed building in East Cambridge.
He served in the American Revolution and worked as a shoemaker before, in 1787, moving to Chambersburg, Pennsylvania and taking up work as an apothecary.
Surgical career On his return to Edinburgh, Drummond was admitted to the Incorporation of Surgeons in 1707 and established a practice as a surgeon-apothecary in the Lawnmarket in Edinburgh.
On completion of his apprenticeship he went, as was the custom of the day, for further education at a continental University.
That may have been because it was the custom of the time to add the name of his father after death, or because "Dr.
In 1741, he published his Pharmacomastix, or the Office, Use, and Abuse of Apothecaries Explained, and had the satisfaction of seeing the former act renewed.
His descendants are spread across Canada, most of all those of John Sage, who adopted the Arnold surname.
Ziz died unmarried on 1 December 1829 in Mainz; his extensive herbarium was bequeathed to the Grand Ducal Museum in Darmstadt but was destroyed during the 1944 air raids.
He possessed an estate at Roxton, Bedfordshire, the manor of Sharsted, Kent, where some of his descendants still resided as of the 19th century, a mansion in Blackfriars, London, and extensive property in Virginia and the Bermudas.
Legacy "The town of Redford, in Clinton County, in the north-east corner of the State of New York, was named for him." References Works Committee on the Subject of Pauperism and a House of Industry (1821).
Their daughter Elizabeth married James Stuart who served three terms of office as Lord Provost of Edinburgh.
"Les grands voyages de Jean Mocquet, apothicaire et garde du "Cabinet des Singularitez" de Louis XIII aux Tuileries (Suite et fin)".
1705 Reasons against Imposing Prisedg Wines in Scotland The Age of the World …the Case of John Sproul… Bibliography Robert Wodrow had papers on John Spreul.
In this he created a major systematic division of the asteroids and ophiuroids based on the presence or absence of the ambulacral groove.
From 1706 he worked at this father's pharmacy in Naumburg and from 1710 he went back to Leipzig and worked with his brother.
Upon Camerarius' death in 1598, Besler had the remainder of Camerarius' plants moved to Eichstätt and carried on the work of planting and supervision.
William Clarke was married twice, first to Martha (last name is unknown) who bore him three children - Joseph, William and Anne.
When the French Academy of Sciences was founded in 1666, Jean-Baptiste Colbert was assigned by Louis XIV to select members and he appointed Samuel Cottereau du Clos and Claude Bourdelin who were both associated with medicine.
He returned to England in 1753, proceeding to Bath, and after a series of elaborate experiments conducted in public he went to London, where he established himself in practice.
In 1690, he published a plant catalogue of this garden under the title "Horti Beaumontiani: Exoticarum Plantarum Catalogus ...".
Honours 1776 accommodation into Leopoldina Publications Chemische Versuche über die alkalischen Salze.
He was a great benefactor to the Apothecaries' Company, having been ‘a principal means for the procuring of the said company to be made a corporation,’ and for the purchase of Apothecaries' Hall, where a massive marble bust of him is preserved.
Katherine had three children from a previous marriage to Edward Storer, including daughter Katherine as well as sons Edward and Arthur Storer.
The Gypsies Metamorphosed In the text of the "Windsor Epilogue" of Ben Jonson's 1621 masque, The Gypsies Metamorphosed, Rumler is said to have provided make-up to darken the actors' faces.
By what reason and means that murdering principle is taught and carried on; who were accessory to the contrivance of murdering; who were to be murdered; and also as to the archbishop of St Andrews's murder.
Normally the sight of prayer flags and the smell of incense repel me, but the store’s herbs and other products, along with the knowledgeable service, have made Tenzing Momo part of my regular routine...
On June 16, Arnold inspected West Point while on his way home to Connecticut to take care of personal business, and he sent a highly detailed report through the secret channel.
In 1753 he proved the chemical element bismuth to be distinct from lead, becoming the official discoverer of the element.
In 1540 he was among the founders of the Accademia degli Umidi, which was soon renamed Accademia Fiorentina.
William Hudson FRS (1730 in Kendal – 23 May 1793) was a British botanist and apothecary based in London.
As an aviculturist he maintained nearly 150 bird species and in the course of a decade managed to breed nearly 63 species including several African weaverbirds for the first time in captivity.
Ernst Hofmann (1837 Frankfurt am Main – 1892 Stuttgart) was a German entomologist who specialised in Lepidoptera.
In addition to dried herbs, the store carries spices, mixers, incense, bath products, tarot cards, and all-natural remedies.
It was believed Charles had received other unofficial instructions, so the council sent a delegation that included Dante to Rome to persuade the Pope not to send Charles to Florence.
External links Ownership inscription of Hugh Morgan WorldCat References Sources Bradford, Charles Angell (1939).
Gideon Delaune, Robert Johnstone, and the Lombard Street goldsmith William Terry were executors of the goldsmith George Heriot, who made a bequest to found a school in Edinburgh now known as George Heriot's School.
The book contains a family register recording births, marriages, and deaths; his own death was noted in the ledger by one of his children.
He is also referred to by the name En no Gyōja (役 行者; Japanese pronunciation: [en no ɡʲoꜜː.(d)ʑa, eꜜn no ɡʲoː.(d)ʑa], lit.
During the English invasions of Rio de la Plata, he had provided medicines and provided his aid to the patriots wounded.
For many years this bust occupied such a position as to be virtually excluded from sight; but in 1846 it was placed on a bracket at the upper end of the hall.
In the 19th century novel Nansou Satomi Hakkenden, the spirit of En no Gyoja gifts the Satomi family a magical japamala as a ward against their curse, which is later divided to become the personal talismans of the eponymous Eight Dog Warriors.
Historisch-kritische Untersuchung der Alchemie oder der eingebildeten Goldmacherkunst, von ihrem Ursprunge sowohl als Fortgange, und was nun von ihr zu halten sey.
He called skippers "hogs", swallowtails "Royal Williams", walls as "Enfield Eyes" and marbled whites as "Half-Mourners".
Simon distilled an oily substance from storax, the resin of the Sweetgum tree, Liquidambar orientalis, which he named "styrol".
His efforts in parliament proving unsuccessful, he published a pamphlet entitled A Mirror for Courts-Martial: in which the Complaints, Trial, Sentence, and Punishment of David Blakeney are examined.
In December 1595 MacCartney and the surgeon James Henrysoun were asked to perform an autopsy on Jonet Lyle who was thought to have been poisoned.
Leaving public service, he also gave up his medical practice and concentrated on his pharmacy business.
References Biographical Directory of the US Congress (unlike other sources, lists his birth year as c.
He demanded that the settlers should surrender their weapons, and that all prisoners should be released.
His popularity earned him the office of Secretary in 1769, which involved running in yearly elections against candidates who would often run smear campaigns in the newspaper.
The election was contested by Leonard Myers on the grounds that several wards in Philadelphia submitted false results.
For his work in endowing the professorship, Sherard was granted a doctorate in medicine by the university in 1731.
In 1819 he was appointed teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium, later adding the titles Medizinalrat and Professor.
Death Jackson died on September 17, 1801, at his home in Oxford, Pennsylvania, and is buried in the Oxford Cemetery in Chester County, Pennsylvania.
The pharmacy is still part of Merck KGaA, but the original building was destroyed during World War II in the bombing campaigns, and therefore it is a new construction.
28 September 1628 – 9 February 1698) was an English apothecary, astrologer and physician, known for his large medical library.
In the 17th century, the only women pharmacists where widows who inherited their license from their late husbands.
In 1650 he returned to Montpellier in France, where he took care of his lifelong friend Philippe Jacques de Maussac, who died that same year.
During this time he started his scientific work, which later became the basis for the discovery of morphine.
La Spiritata (1561) I Parentadi La Arenga La Sibilla La Pinzochera L'Arzigogolo A number of miscellaneous poems, a few letters and Four Orations to the Cross complete the list of Grazzini's works.
When it was over, he was carried to prison on a soldier's back, where he was refused the benefit of a surgeon.
Johann Baptist Ziz (8 October 1779–1 December 1829) was a German botanist, apothecary, and teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium.
Jakob Benjamin Fischer (13 October 1731 – 25 July 1793) was a Baltic German naturalist and apothecary.
Biography He was a direct descendant of company founder Friedrich Jacob Merck, who had purchased the Engel-Apotheke (Angel Pharmacy) in Darmstadt in 1668.
After inheriting an estate at the age of 62, he retired there and was appointed a deputy lieutenant of Devonshire in 1831.
Sophie (1734–82), the daughter of Louis XV, was interested in scientific objects and had Cornette organize a scientific cabinet for her.
Career After three years in Kargowa, he went to Berlin in 1704, working at first at the apothecary shop of Christoph Schmedicke.
He sat as Member of Parliament for Dublin City and was known as the "Irish Wilkes" because of his radical views.
This plan very nearly succeeded, but Arnold changed living quarters before sailing for Virginia in December and thus avoided capture.
In 1809, Marull was involved in Mutiny of Álzaga, he was imprisoned released and released after paying a fine of 3,000 pesos.
Bourdelin worked with Samuel Cottereau du Clos to analyze mineral waters (sampling ninety sources from 68 locations in France and the analysis was published in 1675), materials from plants and animals.
However, in 1783 his house in Panton Street caught fire, his collections of insects and many of his plants were destroyed, and the people narrowly escaped with their lives.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Cooper, Thompson (1888).
Although Eastchurch's demands were rejected, he was able to stop the advancement of the trial developing against Miller.
He was a founding member of the American Antiquarian Society, and helped establish the Boston Library Society, and the Massachusetts Historical Society.
In 1721, in order to help with a projected revision of Caspar Bauhin's Pinax of 1623, William Sherard brought the German botanist Johann Jacob Dillenius to England.
He was a member of the Pennsylvania Prison Society and president of the Pennsylvania Humane Society.
This house may have been intended for his own use or may have been the residence of his natural (illegitimate) children and their mother.
Three years later he became surgical apprentice to Thomas Edgar who had been Deacon of the Incorporation of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1685 to 1687.
Lucas’s son Henry and other relatives were in attendance at his funeral, as were his friends Lord Charlemont, Flood, Thomas Adderley and Sir Lucius O'Brien, 3rd Baronet.
Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte des ersten pharmazeutischen Lehrers am Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum in Berlin.(A contribution to the history of the first pharmaceutical professor at the Berlin Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum.) Dissertation, University of Berlin, 1938.
After his first marriage, Weinmann became embroiled in a drawn-out dispute with local apothecaries and physicians, brought about by his appointment in 1713 as Hospital Apothecary.
11 of the book also tells that on October 5, Tenpyō 4 (October 28, 732 AD), his student Karakuni no Hirotari was elected as the Head Apothecary (典薬頭, Ten'yaku no Kami), the highest position in Agency for Apothecary (典薬寮, Ten'yaku-ryō).
Kirkton records that even in Dumfries, at the beginning of the Pentlands Rising, the insurgents drank the king's health and M'Crie, over about 8 pages, argues repeatedly that although they rose in arms, they were not rebels.
But it can function as more than just a pit-stop for vacationing hippies or angst-ridden teen witches if you let it—the store's staff are herbal sommeliers.
His argument was disputed by Recorder Stannard, and in the following year Lucas published his closely reasoned and temperate Divelina Libera: an Apology for the Civil Rights and Liberties of the Commons and Citizens of Dublin.
He wrote commentary in the margins, including a note that Sherard was friends with George Frideric Handel; this is plausible considering the two's mutual acquaintance in Haym.
Botany In 1711, around the time Sherard finished composing his second set of sonatas, the Duke died, and Sherard's interest in music seems to have died with him.
Despite his ill health, he made several trips to continental Europe in search of seeds for his garden, which soon became recognized as one of the finest in England.
Spreul absented, and was with several other persons denounced and intercommuned, though nothing was laid to their charge but mere nonconformity.
Eleonore of Württemberg (also called Eleanore of Hesse-Damstadt, 1552 – 1618) was a German noblewoman who published a treatise of medicinal remedies.
Claude Joseph Geoffroy (8 August 1685 in Paris – 9 March 1752 in Paris) was the brother of Étienne François Geoffroy.
At the instigation of the author of a monograph on Timmia, Guy Brassard, a mountain on the Arctic Ellesmere Island was named "Mount Timmia" in honour of Timm.
Besler did not consider himself a scientist, but rather relied on the extant literature of his time including Camerarius, Clusius, Fuchs, Tabernaemontanus and Lobelius, but his work predated the introduction of many overseas plants to Germany.
In 2008, Maggie Dutton of Seattle Weekly wrote: Over its three decades of existence, Tenzing Momo ...
[5] Alexander Chalmers: General Biographical Dictionary.[6] Noretta Koertge: Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography.
The examination of plant matter included distillation of liquids and attempts to separate mixtures and compounds.
He is also in the second installment, still as a Mitama, but given randomly by slaying a higher leveled Oni.
This can be seen in Revisio generum plantarum which consists largely of exhaustive lists of species and entire genera which he proposed were to be moved.
He settled in England and was naturalised as a British subject by Act of Parliament introduced in 1783 (23 Geo.
In 1763 the Freeman's Journal, a biweekly newspaper, was started by three Dublin merchants under the management of Henry Brooke (1703?–1783).
The gardens surrounded the bishop's palace, Willibaldsburg, which was built on a hill overlooking the town.
Discovery of morphine On 1 October 1799, Friedrich Sertürner began there an apprenticeship for four years.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl of Bromley was buried at Poplar, undoubtedly at Poplar Chapel (St Matthias Old Church) on 6 September 1783, according to St Dunstan's, Stepney, Parish Registers.
Notably, he cured the incapacitated hands of a dyer's apprentice thereby earning himself an election to the Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce in May 1761.
In the historical fantasy novel Teito Monogatari by Hiroshi Aramata the protagonist Yasunori Kato claims to be a descendant of En no Gyōja.
Shires displaced John Clavie from his position, who allowed him to make waters, perfumes, and odours for the royal family and for the sweetening of linen.
The Political Graveyard Plan of Say Burial Ground Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine, at 3rd and Arch Streets in Philadelphia Watercolor of grave marker
Britain was involved in the Seven Years' War and they were asking him not to print a list of ships sailing from the port.
In this paper, which was an extension of an earlier memoir on the same subject written in 1744, Rouelle pointed out that the number of known salts had increased significantly during the 17th and early 18th centuries.
Death and memorials Parkinson died on 21 December 1824, after a stroke that interfered with his speech.
His biographer described Craigie as someone who "entertained without regard to expense, who kept dozens of servants and well stocked stables and wine cellars." Meanwhile, Craigie continued to invest in land speculation, much of it in East Cambridge.
Say graduated from the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia in 1780 and practiced in that city.
He is noted for co-founding the McKesson Corporation, the largest health care company in North America and ninth-largest company in the United States.
Plotting to change sides Historians have identified many possible factors contributing to Arnold's treason, while some debate their relative importance.
Some 16th-century English Protestants, such as John Bale and John Foxe, argued that Dante was a proto-Protestant because of his opposition to the pope.
In the anime Zenki, a posthumous character named Enno Ozunu was the master of Zenki, who would centuries later be summoned again by his descendant, Chiaki Enno.
Philipp Gottfried Gaertner (29 October 1754, Hanau – 27 December 1825, Hanau) was a German botanist.
Authorship of the non-canonical Sutra on the Unlimited Life of the Threefold Body is attributed to En no Gyōja.
In addition to the eponymous disease, Parkinson is commemorated in the names of several fossil organisms, including the ammonite Parkinsonia parkinsoni, the crinoid Apiocrinus parkinsoni, the snail Rostellaria parkinsoni, and the tree Nipa parkinsoni.
The Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library (Yale University Library, Connecticut, US) holds a manuscript edition of the Divine Comedy (c.
He received a doctorate in 1647 and became a physician in Venice while also making studies on chemicals such as silica, and the effect of soap on oils.
"Amstela dulcis" In 1665, Bidloo's first publication—Menno's Church—was printed as part of the "Lammerenkrijg" among the Amsterdam Mennonites.
Jahrhunderts", Schweizerisches Archiv für Volkskunde = Archives suisses des traditions populaires 14 (1910), 198–245.
He was banished by the Imperial Court to Izu Ōshima on June 26, 699, but folk tales at least as old as the Nihon Ryōiki (c.
Franz Anton Cramer (born 1776 in Paderborn; died May 9, 1829 in Paderborn) was a German court apothecary in Paderborn.
This privilege was abolished in 1873, after which all pharmacists were to be formally trained as such, an education which was opened for women in 1891, the first graduate being Märtha Leth.
She was one of 17 women to be honored by the American Pharmacists Association in 2012, for "contributions to the profession and advancement of women in pharmacy." See also Susan Hayhurst Elizabeth Marshall (pharmacist) Maria Dauerer == References ==
It is possible that during his lifetime he was known as Gottfried Gaertner, and that "Philipp" was added after his death.
His business acumen was such that he was able to purchase an apothecary which had gone bankrupt, and turn it into a profitable shop.
His brother Timothy and his wife Elizabeth Barclay (1714–1745) had two sons, Joseph Gurney Bevan and Silvanus Bevan (1743-1830).
The local survey was conducted by architect Peter John Stokes, who was the "foremost architectural historian" of the province at the time.
He was listed in a manuscript of "Medical Men in the American Revolution" deposited in the Library of Congress by Dr.
Early life He was the third son of Adam Drummond (1649-1709) of Megginch, 9th of Lennoch, a Commissioner to the Scottish Parliament and a Privy Councillor of Scotland.
Karl Friedrich Otto Ruß (January 14, 1833, Baldenburg – September 29, 1899, Berlin) was a Prussian pharmacist, aviculturist, author of bird-keeping books, and the founding editor of the world's first bird-fancier magazine Die Gefiederte Welt.
This revision troubled many botanists because of the changes he suggested to nearly 30000 taxa, many which were contrary to the rules established by the botanical congress of 1867.
He was one of just three people with addresses in Poplar and Blackwall to be found in Thomas Mortimer's Universal Director of 1763.
On 21 May 1783, he married Mary Dale, with whom he subsequently had eight children; two did not survive past childhood.
He accompanied his father to England, and was appointed apothecary to Anne of Denmark, queen of James I.
Leger with news that the approaching force was much larger and closer than it actually was; this convinced St.
He was imprisoned by the French colonial authorities in Guadeloupe amid accusations of spying for the British, and narrowly eluded hanging by escaping to the blockading British fleet after bribing his guards.
The business prospered, and after fourteen more years he was able to move his shop to a better spot across from the soon-to-be-constructed Strozzi Palace.
One week later the University appointed Alexander Monro primus as his successor, paving the way for the famous dynasty of Anatomy professors.
He was supposed to become Master of the Grocers' Company a few months before the time when he was appointed, and asked to be excused from taking office so he could fulfill his duties.
Some 17th century church services were attended by armed defensive militia since the regime sent soldiers who attacked those at unauthorised meetings.
Being ordered to withdraw, a series of resolutions was passed declaring him to be an enemy to his country, calling upon the attorney-general to prosecute him for his offence, and ordering his immediate imprisonment in Newgate.
Family On 9 November 1715 he married Elizabeth, the daughter of Daniel Quare, the royal clockmaker, at a Friends' meeting-house in the City.
He was also a crusader for the legal protection for the mentally ill, as well as their doctors and families.
Due to his mythical status as a mountain saint, he was believed to possess many supernatural powers.
In 1732, shortly after the death of Isabella, he was married again, on this occasion to Christine Catharina Pfaffenreuther, daughter of a town official.
Science Parkinson's interest gradually turned from medicine to nature, specifically the relatively new fields of geology and palaeontology.
He refused to testify regarding his part in the Popgun Plot until he was certain he would not be forced to incriminate himself.
333-346 Observation sur un acide glacial, obtenu par la distillation d'un mélange d'acide nitreux fumant et de charbon embrasé et réduit en poudre, Académie des sciences, 1779, p.
En route to the continent he took a course of anatomy in London from a fellow Scot Dr Robert Erskine of Alva, before further studies at the University of Leyden.
Parr owned a slave ship called Briton, whose captain employed an African pirate called Captain Lemma Lemma to capture and enslave people with his war canoes.
Works by James Parkinson at Project Gutenberg Works by or about James Parkinson at the Internet Archive Works by James Parkinson at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)
His father was court apothecary to Charles II, and James II, having succeeded his own father in 1666, who was court apothecary to Charles I and, after the Restoration, to Charles II.
The most important of his works, Versuch einer Naturgeschichte von Liefland, is one of the earliest descriptions of the nature of Livonia.
Silvanus (II) (1691–1765) the apothecary, and Silvanus (III) (1743–1830), son of Timothy Bevan, the brother of Silvanus Bevan (II), was one of the founders of Barclay's Bank and partner of Thrale's Anchor Brewery.
He returned to Orange in 1681 to obtain a degree of doctor of medicine, receiving the highest rank for his dissertation.
He trained under Joachim Christian Timm (1734–1805) in Malchin, afterwards working as an apothecary in Rostock, Neubrandenburg, Anklam, Woldegk and Waren.
In counter addresses and pamphlets Lucas was stigmatised as a needy adventurer, a man of no family, and a political firebrand.
Emily was brought up as a Quaker, became Protestant and afterwards joined the sect of Selina Hastings, Countess of Huntingdon.
After years of good health, he began to suffer intense flare-ups of gout before dying at his home in London in 1799.
A copy of Dante's death mask has been displayed since 1911 in the Palazzo Vecchio; scholars today believe it is not a true death mask and was probably carved in 1483, perhaps by Pietro and Tullio Lombardo.
In the same month, he determined to offer himself as a candidate for the city of Dublin, notwithstanding the consequent loss of his practice in London.
Writing under his own name and his pseudonym "Old Hubert", he called for radical social reforms and universal suffrage.
Also a zoologist, Ernst Hofmann trained as an apothecary and later became the curator of the Naturalienkabinett in Stuttgart.
who was in the plot, and where Mr Cargill was, and if he would subscribe his confession before the council?
The London Chronicle of 24 January 1782, carried this item: "Last week died at the house of his friend, Dr.
This was criticized by others and Tachenius believed that his critic was Helwig Dieterich, resulting in polemics between the two (and others) which went on until 1656.
John Moffet (April 5, 1831 – June 19, 1884) was an Irish-American politician who served as a Democratic member of the U.S.
21, June 1995 (in German) Frahm, Jan-Peter & Eggers, Jens (2001), Lexikon deutschsprachiger Bryologen (in German), Norderstedt: Books on Demand GmbH (self-published), pp.
He is mentioned by Theophrastus as possessing the knowledge of certain anaphrodisiac medicines, which he made use of either for the punishment or reformation of his slaves.
Notes Note: citations prefixed with "via DNB" were copied from the DNB article and have not been independently verified.
Hugh Tait, 'Wedgwood, Flaxman, and an English eighteenth-century portrait carver, Silvanus Bevan.' Proceedings of the Wedgwood Society, No 3, 1959.
In 1743 his letter entitled “An Account of an Extraordinary Case of the Bones of a Woman Growing Soft and Flexible”, was printed in their Philosophical Transactions.
The next year he became a physician to the Landgrave Georg II of Hesse-Darmstadt and then to Georg Wilhelm of Brandenburg.
In September 1595 MacCartney wrote to Bowes about the Catholic earls, with the news that Elizabeth Douglas, Countess of Erroll was now allowed by James VI to rebuild Old Slains Castle, and the Earl of Huntly would be able to do the same at Huntly Castle if stonemasons were available.
Remedy book In 1600, Eleonore published Sechs Bücher auserlesener Artzney und Kunst-Stücke, fast vor alle des menschlichen Leibes Zufälle, Gebrechen und Kranckheiten (Six Books of Exquisite Medicine and Skills for Almost All Human Bodily Ailments and Illnesses).
He was the owner of the first drugstore in Buenos Aires, his establishment was known as "Botica del Colegio", located in the streets Santísima Trinidad y San Carlos (current Bolívar and Alsina) Monserrat, was founded by his uncle Francisco Marull in 1777.
He was appointed an alderman of Dowgate Ward 17 January 1625–6, and was discharged as an alien a week later.
After freedom, he seems to have quickly gained prominence and became a successful businessman being involved in fish processing and pearl trading.
In 1720 Drummond resigned "owing to the state of his health and his business", although it is likely that this was as a result of pressure from John Monro, who wished to advance the interests of his son Alexander.
700–707) was a Japanese ascetic and mystic, traditionally held to be the founder of Shugendō, the path of ascetic training practiced by the gyōja or yamabushi.
at Cambridge in 1678, having received a Lambeth degree earlier in the same year from William Sancroft, Archbishop of Canterbury.
He came from a wealthy family, which owned many estates in Exeter, one of which he inherited in 1825.
At that time, after many terrible threatenings of being shot to death, roasted at a fire, and the like, and some short confinement, he was dismissed.
His letter continues to praise her as a positive influence in science due to her devotion that comes with little in return (no wealth, fame, or money).
He engaged in a variety of business deals designed to profit from war-related supply movements and benefiting from the protection of his authority.
Explanatory notes References Citations Bibliography External links En no Ozunu – History of Japan Database
Between 1874 and 1876, he traveled around the world: the Caribbean, United States, Japan, China, Southeast Asia, Arabian peninsula and Egypt.
Publications Horti medici amstelodamensis rariorum tam Orientalis :quam Occidentalis Indiæ, aliarumque peregrinarum plantarum, magno studio ac labore, sumptibus Civitatis amstelodamensis, longâ annorum serie collectarum, descriptio et icones ad vivum æri incisæ /auctore Joanne Commelino.
Biography Early life Silvanus Bevan was born in 1691 in Swansea, into a prosperous Welsh Quaker family.
The captain of the Briton, William Bagshaw, had been entertaining Lemma Lemma for 10 days while he and his men captured people.
His role allowed him to cultivate relationships with numerous peers in scientific and industrial circles, who frequently sought his counsel on technical issues.
His collection of organic remains was given to his wife, and much of it was sold in 1827; a catalogue of the sale has never been found.
General George Washington had given him his fullest trust and had placed him in command of West Point in New York.
Geoffrey Tweedale, At the Sign of the Plough: 275 years of Allen & Hanburys and the British pharmaceutical industry, 1715–1990 (1990) ISBN 0-7195-4786-5.
In the religion Shugendō In folk religion, En no Ozunu is traditionally held to be the founder of Shugendō, a syncretic religion incorporating aspects of Taoism, Shinto, esoteric Buddhism (especially Shingon Mikkyō and the Tendai sect) and traditional Japanese shamanism.
He then worked for Duke Frederik III of Holsten-Gottorp and then King Christian IV who made him his physician.
Love for Beatrice (as Petrarch would express for Laura somewhat differently) would be his reason for writing poetry and for living, together with political passions.
On November 12, Myers contested the election on the grounds that several wards in the city of Philadelphia submitted false election results.
His work was primarily watercolour landscapes, for which he toured to the Lake District, along with oil history paintings.
These facts are proved by his will, dated 19 June 1654, and proved 20 June 1659, and by his funeral certificate in the College of Arms, both of which documents give his age as ninety-four at the time of his death.
161 Timm, Joachim Christian (1788), Florae Megapolitanae Prodromus, Leipzig: Müllerische Buchhandlung
He was a member of several secret political societies, including the London Corresponding Society and the Society for Constitutional Information.
Life He was the son of Joseph Fox the elder, and his wife Elizabeth Hingston; and the brother of Edward Long Fox.
The academy consisting of fifteen members would meet twice a week, Tuesdays for mathematics and Saturdays for physics.
On 2 March 1681, Spreul was indicted before the High Court of Justiciary on the charge of treason and rebellion, for alleged accession to the insurrection at Bothwell Bridge.
Selected works Flora Anglica (1762) –1798 printing See also Category:Taxa named by William Hudson (botanist) Notes References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Hudson, William (1730?-1793)".
In 1638 he was called to treat Prince Christian whose leg had been injured by a carriage wheel running over it.
While in England, in 1713, he learned of the death of his royal patron and of the consequent termination of his patronage.
Guillaume François Rouelle (French pronunciation: [ɡijom fʁɑ̃swa ʁwɛl]; 15 September 1703 – 3 August 1770) was a French chemist and apothecary.
Reports of Equity, Election, and Other Important Cases Argued and Determined Principally in the Courts of the County of Philadelphia.
So much he signified to the governor of the Bass, and continued some time in prison, till a letter came over requiring the governor to set open doors to him, and tell him he was at liberty to go, or stay, as he pleased.
On November 8, 1810, the English schooner "Alarm" arrived in the Port of Buenos Aires from Guernsey, bringing goods that included wine and gin to the consignment of Narciso Marull.
Narciso Marull (1747-c.1820) was a Spanish apothecary and merchant, who served as Asentista de Medicina in the Real Audiencia of Buenos Aires.
She was a co-author of the Winckelbouck, in which, from 1751, she described all her medical recipes.
Later in 1727, Daniel moved to Boston to join her after resigning his post as pastor of the Congregational Church in Yarmouth.
It is believed Abbott never sold any of his paintings, and most of his works were retained by his family until well into the 20th century.
The war canoes were owned by Captain Lemma Lemma, an African pirate leader who captured people and sold them to the slave traders.
Tenzing Momo also claims to have the largest selection in town of essential oils as well as vast rows of medicinal herbs." Reception Connie McDougall of The Seattle Times called the shop "exotic as they come ...
A native of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, he became a member of the Reformed Church, whose congregational school he attended.
Drummond had been librarian to the Incorporation of Surgeons from 1746 and was Deacon (President) of the Incorporation between 1748 and 1750.
Biography Elizabeth Gooking was born in Edison, Province of New Jersey in 1681, the daughter of Samuel and Mary Gooking.
The work is thought to have inspired similar works, such as the Japanese medicinal work "Honzo Zufu" (1828) by Iwasaki Tsunemasa, and "Somoku-dzusetsu" (1856) by Yokusai Iinuma.
The book went through three limited editions in her lifetime, perhaps intended to be circulated as a high-status gift.
Among the features he cited were the building's façade, intricate wood carving, cabinetry, and "ornate plaster-work".
Following the war William attained wealth and landholdings, but lost much of his fortune following the restoration.
He became a fellow of the College of Physicians of London in 1687, nominated by James II's charter: he had been elected an honorary fellow seven years earlier.
Biography Russ was born in a family of pharmacists and following the family tradition, he studied pharmacy and passed the test for apothecaries in Berlin in 1862.
He voted for the naturalization of the Palatines in 1709 and for the impeachment of Dr Sacheverell in 1710.
Daniel Scott, a druggist or apothecary, at the sign of the Leopard, at the south part of the town, the business being subsequently removed to Union Street.
He assigned chemical symbols to the seven metals corresponding to the known celestial bodies at the time, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, and Moon respectively.
Otto Christian Blandow (5 August 1778, Waren – 15 March 1810, Waren) was a German apothecary and botanist, specializing in the field of bryology.
It is an annual pilgrimage destination for yamabushi (practitioners of Shugendo), who perform various rituals on site.
Return to Ireland In view of the general election at the accession of George III, Lucas published in November 1760 a pamphlet entitled Seasonable Advice to the Electors...
On 13 November 1807, Parkinson and other distinguished gentlemen met at the Freemasons' Tavern in London.
Career He obtained his "Freedom" from the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries in 1715 having served his seven years' apprenticeship with Thomas Mayleigh.
In 1682, his service was requested in Amsterdam, and after staying there for a year he moved to The Hague in 1684.
It is through his friendship with the Scaliger family that Joseph Barsalou gained access to the library of Julius Caesar Scaliger and his son Joseph Justus Scaliger.
This was an illustrated account, with text in Dutch and Latin, of the plants growing in van Beaumont's garden.
The success of the Canadian Centennial anniversary celebrations throughout Canada that year provided impetus to fund similar projects provincially, and in July a provincial grant of $15,000 was made to the Niagara Foundation, which it used to discharge its mortgage.
The records of the Niagara Apothecary suggest "habitual drug use" amongst a subset of its clientele, including those who self-medicated leading to addiction.
A: I think not; for I own the freedom of preaching the gospel, and I hear, what they did was only in self-defence.
Cysat published works about the history and folklore of Lucerne, as well as a number of theatrical plays, and a book about (then-recently discovered) Japan.
Despite this, due to his tireless work ethic and widespread popularity, More remained in his position as secretary for the remainder of his life.
There is also in the hall a portrait of him in oil, supposed to have been painted by Cornelius Johnson.
Edward Parr (26 February 1718 - February 1768) was an English slave trader, apothecary and merchant of Liverpool.
Parkinson erroneously suggested that the tremors in these patients were due to lesions in the cervical spinal cord.
Parkinson also contributed several papers to William Nicholson's "A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts", and in the first, second, and fifth volumes of the Geological Society's Transactions.
Engel-Apotheke Friedrich Jacob Merck in the 17th century Heinrich Emanuel Merck (1794–1855) from 1816–c.1855 See also Merck family Emanuel Merck Lectureship == References ==
Travels Mocquet's first voyage began on 9 October 1601, when he accompanied the ship La Serène from Saint-Malo to the Canary Islands and the coast of north Africa.
Silvanus Bevan FRS (1691 – 8 June 1765) was an apothecary, who founded the London firm of Allen & Hanburys.
In Plymouth he married in 1780 his second cousin Elisabeth Peters (St Dennis, 5 Dec 1751 – Mylor, 1830).
(2000), Der Landkreis Demmin Historische Stätten (in German), Stavenhagen: Khs Verlag & Service GmbH, pp.
Having a considerable knowledge of botany, he devoted himself especially to the study of the essential oils in plants.
She herself claimed that her knowledge did not come from any university, but was a result of innate understanding and experience.
Silvanus (I) (1661–1725) the father of the subject of this entry was a burgess of the City of Swansea.
A: I will not call it rebellion, I think it was a providential necessity put on them for their own safety, after Drumclog.
He became a slave trader with West Africa, the Caribbean and Chesapeake Bay, and reputedly became the second richest man in Liverpool, as documented in the letter books of his assistant, Joshua Dixon.
Francis Bernard (1698) External links Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Stephen, Leslie, ed.
Association with Isaac Newton In 1654, William provided boarding to Isaac Newton as he would be attending the King's School with Edward and Arthur Storer.
Work In 1611, the bishop, who was already quite ill, commissioned Besler to compile a codex of the plants growing in his garden, a task which Besler took sixteen years to complete, the bishop dying shortly before the work was published in 1613.
He was well received by King George III and the Tories but frowned upon by the Whigs and most British Army officers.
Besler established a pharmacy, Zum Marienbild, at Nuremberg's Hay Market in 1589, and developed his own botanical garden and collection of specimens, for which he became well known.
Publications Mémoire sur la décomposition de plusieurs sels neutres à base d'alkalis fixes et volatils, par l'acide marin, Académie royale des sciences, 1778, p.
But after a hearing of two days, permission was refused by the judge to lodge information, and the victorious Aldermen struck out the names of Lucas and his supporters from the following triennial return of the Common Council.
In the beginning, the company was involved in the wholesale of botanical-based drugs, including herbs and vegetable extracts.
He got his nickname for being imprisoned on the Bass Rock for around six years on the charge of being present at outdoor religious meetings.
George Canning Hill authored a series of moralistic biographies in the mid-19th century and began his 1865 biography of Arnold: "Benedict, the Traitor, was born…".
Similarly, CO2 produced for the food and beverage industry is also excluded from these figures As of 2023, it is commercially feasible to produce the following products from captured CO2: methanol, urea, polycarbonates, polyols, polyurethane, and salicylic acids.
In June 2008 the Carbon Trust introduced the Carbon Trust Carbon Standard to address what it describes as business greenwash.
2454), a greenhouse gas cap-and-trade bill, was passed on June 26, 2009, in the House of Representatives by a vote of 219–212.
Emissions trading basically refers to the trading of emissions allowances (carbon credits) between one regulated entity and a less pollutive entity.
Google violations On 22 April 2008, Ecocho was informed by Google that they would be denied the use of Google's search technologies for multiple past violations of Google's policies.
It ran in parallel with a tax on energy use, the Climate Change Levy, introduced in April 2001, but companies could get a discount on the tax if they elected to make reductions through participation in the trading scheme.
Timeline 1970s In 1973 the Big Three American automobile manufacturers, Chrysler, Ford Motor Company and General Motors, along with import brand Toyota, were ordered by the EPA to stop using ambient temperature switches which disabled pollution controls at low temperatures.
The goals of the Cap and Dividend Act of 2009 are as follows: Set robust, scientifically driven emissions reductions targets at 25 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 and 85 percent below 2005 levels by 2050 for covered emissions.
Meanwhile, Brazil produces and uses large amounts of bioethanol in vehicles, including in some flex-fuel cars exclusively available in Brazil.
Provisions The legislation aims to put a price on all greenhouse gases that play a significant role in trapping heat in the atmosphere through binding "minimum national standards" on the federal government and all of the provinces and territories of Canada.
History The idea of a global wealth system based on alternative energy production was first suggested by Buckminster Fuller in his 1969 book Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth.
These included credits produced under the Joint Initiative (JI) provision: Emission Reduction Unit credits; the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM): Certified Emission Reduction credits; and Assigned Amount Units (AAU) now also widely known as Hot Air in the post Soviet context.
Data Ember’s open data covers annual electricity generation data for over 200 countries and regions, and monthly electricity generation data for 85 countries and regions.
Using this technology would improve the health of the nation but in particular for people who live closer to the railway.
Different greenhouse gases have different physical properties: the global warming potential is an internationally accepted scale of equivalence for other greenhouse gases in units of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
A phase-out of fossil fuels together with a shift to 100% renewable energy is required by about 2040.
Support from lower-income countries, such as Côte d'Ivoire, Colombia, and Vietnam, is primarily driven by established trade relations with the EU and the potential for EU development aid to offset transition costs.
The investment was reported to be in the range of “€20 million-plus.” Also in 2021, South Pole acquired Belgium-based climate consultancy CO2logic to expand its offerings in Belgium and France.
Costs of solar photovoltaic cells have dropped rapidly, driving strong growth in worldwide capacity.
A steady, planned, rolling programme will reduce costs, speed up journey times, create more seats on more reliable trains and ultimately reduce ticket prices." The group staged a protest on top of Snowdon in 2018.
Namely, the emission reduction must be real, permanent over the period of credit generation, quantifiable, enforceable, and surplus to emission reductions that are already needed to comply with an existing requirement (local, state, or Federal) or air quality plan.
The low emission zones in Antwerp and Brussels have been shown to have a positive impact on air quality, socio-economic disparities and health.
India is also moving towards its goal for electrification of the automotive industry, aiming to have at least 30% EV ownership among private vehicles by 2030.
RETScreen Version 4 was launched on December 11, 2007, at Bali, Indonesia by Canada's Minister of the Environment.
In some markets, however, where short-term supply has overtaken demand, long-term prices can be better than spot prices.
In the European Union Emission Trading Scheme, EU Emission Allowances permit holders to emit a specified amount of carbon dioxide.
'Participants' who must account for their emissions will be few and high in the production chain of each sector and will have to surrender one New Zealand unit (NZU) or one internationally tradable Kyoto-compliant unit for each tonne of emissions.
Carbon pricing Carbon pricing (such as a tax on CO2 emissions) gives industries and consumers an incentive to reduce emissions while letting them choose how to do so.
As such, they increase our overall production and use of renewable energy, and decrease our consumption and burning of fossil fuels.
Clients get to use a specific CEMARS certification logo and are certified against ISO 14064-1 for organisation or PAS 2050 for product or service carboNZero certification is for organisations, products, services or events to make a carbon neutrality claim.
Physical soil and water conservation has been implemented to enhance infiltration, and vegetation growth.
The One-Tonne Challenge was a challenge presented by the Government of Canada in March 2004 for Canadians to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by one tonne each year.
A recent study by the University of Oxford found causal evidence that the local industrial structure influenced the vote among Democrats: a higher share of carbon-intensive ("brown") firms made Democrats less likely to support the bill.
CO2balance adheres to a profit for purpose approach, whereby revenue from the sale of carbon credits is used to maintain projects over the long term and reinvested into new project development.
The Chennai office handles several value-added operations of the bank that were earlier handled only in its Washington, D.C., office.
An ERU represented a reduction of greenhouse gases under the Joint Implementation mechanism, where it represented one tonne of CO2 equivalent reduced.
This estimate is based on values taken from project plans, and makes no adjustment to account for delivery in practice.
Scope According to Mohammed Shamsuddoha and Rezaul Karim Chowdhury, "The 'draft concept note' prepared by the government of Bangladesh on the MDTF suggested that the secretariat be based in the World Bank office in Dhaka.
Most JI projects are expected to take place in the economies in transition (the EIT Parties) noted in Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol.
The company rebranded to ‘South Pole Group’ in 2015, and then again to the current ‘South Pole’ in January 2018.
In 2014, Arcadia Power made RECS available to homes and businesses in all 50 states, allowing consumers to use "100% green power" as defined by the EPA's Green Power Partnership.
The proceeds were paid into a Green Fund, which will provided the resources for the implementation of the provincial climate change plan.
The plan also promotes strategies to reduce emissions from transportation, which account for over 20 percent of local greenhouse gas sources.
The new emissions cap on NOx and SO2 gases took effect in 1995, and according to Smithsonian magazine, those acid rain emissions dropped 3 million tons that year.
The bank would co-chair the management committee and administer, manage, supervise, and monitor implementation of the MDTF's projects and programmes.
BMW BMW was implicated in an "emissions cartel" which sought to restrict design standards for AdBlue.
If the Commonwealth refuses to commit at this time, the States and Territories will introduce an emissions trading scheme by the end of 2010.
These credits are largely traded in form of Certified Emission Reduction (CER), or Emission Reduction Unit (ERU).
The company was the leading insurer of the Trans Mountain pipeline, but stopped supporting it, in July 2020.
However, with the election of Stephen Harper's Conservative Government in 2006, the One Tonne Challenge was scrapped.
Environmental characteristics Source: Average slope gradient: 55% Aspect: the exclosure is oriented towards the west Minimum altitude: 2180 metres Maximum altitude: 2300 metres Lithology: Adigrat Sandstone Management As a general rule, cattle ranging and wood harvesting are not allowed.
Verra was developed in 2005 when the company Climate Wedge and its partner Cheyne Capital designed and drafted the first version (version 1.0) of the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
Furthermore, more than 40 lawsuits were filed against the government in regards to the problem of permit allocation.
This should ensure long-term security of supply after Russia reduced the amount of gas supplied to Austria as a result of its invasion of Ukraine.
The Climate Change Response (Moderated Emissions Trading) Amendment Act 2009 Adoption On 25 November 2009, the bill had its second and third readings and it was adopted by 63 votes to 58, with the support of the National Party (58 votes), the Maori Party (4 votes) and United Future (1 vote).
Low impact energy production The next priority in the hierarchy covers energy sources that are not entirely sustainable, but have a low environmental impact.
The energy sector which was previously slated to make a "considerable" contribution is now required to make an "adequate" contribution.
However, the only determination that has been made is that the actual value of supplementarity should be decided at the country level.
NETT reported progress to CAF in December 2004, including the development of 10 key design propositions as a basis for further investigation and analysis of a NETS.
In the electricity sector, coal still accounted for 83% in 2007, but by 2015, this share had fallen to 72% with the growing share of renewable energies and nuclear energy.
Description Carbon markets are carbon pricing mechanisms enabling governments and non-state actors to trade greenhouse gas emission credits.
Steve Webb, co-founder of Webb Yates Engineers, says: "We’ve known for a long time that aluminium, steel, concrete and ceramics have very high embodied energy ...
Germany is using reverse auctions to compensate coal-fired power plants for shutting down ahead of schedule.
Another area of optimization would come from carbon capture or sequestration such as underground storage, and finally a decrease in fossil fuel use.
In a broad stroke, Renewable Energy Payments, sometimes known as a Feed-in Tariff place obligations on utility companies to buy electricity from renewable energy sources, often small, local companies, for a fixed period of time.
See also Carbon offset Global warming Ecosia Forestle List of search engines References External links Official website
CDR involves techniques to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and is generally considered a form of climate change mitigation.
The RETScreen Clean Energy Management Software (usually shortened to RETScreen Expert) is a software package developed by the Government of Canada.
Its main summary of December 2007 said: The IPCC shows that the world needs to act to avoid disastrous climate change, and act now.
Most organized rides, for example cyclosportives (or gran fondos), Challenge Rides or reliability trials, and hill climbs include registration requirements and will provide information either through the mail or online concerning start times and other requirements.
Pollution in the upstream country is determined only by the emission of the upstream country: q 1 = e 1 {\displaystyle q_{1}=e_{1}} .
Do The Math movie The Do The Math movie is a 42-minute documentary film about the rising movement to change the terrifying math of the climate crisis and challenge the fossil fuel industry.
The Emissions Trading Scheme Review Committee was a special committee of the New Zealand Parliament which conducted a review of the Fifth Labour Government's Emissions Trading Scheme between December 2008 and late August 2009.
Despite their contribution to the construction industry and the generation of jobs, artisanal brick producers largely operate informally and are generally excluded from social, environmental and economic public policies.
The Lofoten Declaration, drafted in August 2017, is an international manifesto calling for the end of hydrocarbon exploration and further expansion of fossil fuel reserves for climate change mitigation.
The regulations apply to about 100 large facilities which emit more than 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases a year.
The report assessed that a minimum of $4.5 million (optimally $8.4 million) of additional funding would be needed to fund the recommended research program.
There should be a presumption in favour of timber and stone." Occupational carbon emissions Occupational carbon emissions relate to the amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere from the direct use of energy to run the building e.g.
Actions from tree-plantings to solar panel installations to huge electricity service-provider switching parties occurred in almost every country around the world.
CNPC Jilin Oil Field China's first carbon capture project was the Jilin oil field in Songyuan, Jilin Province.
The accord has been inactive since March 2010, when an advisory group presented a plan for action to the association with a scheduled implementation date of January 2012.
In an interview with French YouTuber Hugo Travers on 4 September 2023, French president Emmanuel Macron said his government is looking at a French equivalent of the Deutschlandticket.
Unlike classic command and control regulations, which explicitly limit or prohibit emissions by each individual polluter, a carbon tax aims to allow market forces to determine the most efficient way to reduce pollution.
The mixed reactions from users can be seen in the blog comments, some taking further action by complaining to Google, and others agreeing with Google.
The distinction between carbon taxes and permit systems can get blurred when hybrid systems are allowed.
The international community is making critical decisions on how to mobilize up to US$100 billion per year by 2020 based on recommendations in these reports.
As noted in the previous paragraph, participants in the NZ ETS could also use most of the 'Kyoto Units' to meet their surrender obligations.
In January 2016, The Climate Mobilization sponsored a "Climate Emergency Caucus" in Des Moines before the Iowa caucuses, which simulated the state's 2016 Democratic presidential primary caucus.
Signed by 600 organizations spanning 76 countries, the Declaration is believed to have helped influence the government of Norway to divest from investment in exploration and production.
Mountain Mountain biking began in the 1970s, originally as a downhill sport, practised on customized cruiser bicycles around Mount Tamalpais.
This IPCC special report provides broader coverage of renewable energy than was included in the IPCC's 2007 climate change assessment report, as well as stronger renewable energy policy coverage.
Whereas in degraded rangeland, 11.4% of the rainfall flows directly away to the river (runoff coefficient), this happens only for 2.5% of the rain in a recent exclosure and 3.2% in a eucalyptus forest.
angustifolia) Gwarri (Euclea schimperi) Lantana viburnoides Natal rhus (Rhus natalensis) Soils The main soil type in the exclosure are Phaeozems, essentially a remnant of the time when the area was covered with natural forest.
Shane Ardern, a National Party MP, drove a tractor up the steps of Parliament as part of a protest against the tax.
All LEZs apply to heavy vehicles, some to diesel vans, others also to diesel and petrol cars; in Italy, motor cycles and three-wheelers are also liable to control.
The CO2-charged water is acidic, typically having a pH of 3-5 depending on the partial pressure of CO2, water composition, and the temperature of the system.
The African carbon market is a platform that seeks to integrate climate change mitigation with poverty alleviation for local-level farmers in Africa.
202, authorizing the city council to levy and collect an excise tax from residential, commercial and industrial electricity customers for the purpose of funding a climate action plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The 9-Euro-Ticket (German pronunciation: [ˌnɔʏ̯n ˈɔʏ̯ʁo ˈtɪkət]) was a German scheme through which passengers could travel for 9 euros (€) per month on local and regional transport in all of Germany.
The experience gained in the pilot areas will serve as a basis to expand EELA’s intervention at a national level.
C&C, COP-15 and COP-21 The C&C aspect of the negotiations at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP-15) in Copenhagen in 2009 provoked controversy.
High impact energy production The lowest priority under the energy hierarchy is energy production using unsustainables sources, such as unabated fossil fuels.
It calls for fossil fuel divestment and phase-out of use with a just transition to a low-carbon economy.
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
Proposals Proposals include: Tradable Energy Quotas (TEQs) – devised by environmental writer David Fleming, who first published the idea in 1996 under its former name Domestic Tradable Quotas (DTQs).
In addition, regenerative braking saves energy and is more efficient and thus helps the low-carbon economy.
Research Ember currently produces research on global electricity trends and coal mine methane emissions, including research on the EU, India, Indonesia, Australia and Türkiye.
History In May 2003 a report prepared for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (O'Hara report) identified that although some funding for agricultural emissions was being provided by FRST and MAF, "The level of investment in abatement research by other public and private sources has been low".
History Since at least 2008, public figures like environmental analyst Lester Brown, former vice president Al Gore, author and energy expert Joseph J.
Since 2015, more than 60 local authorities have been ordered to tackle illegal levels of air pollution, which is why many of these planning to introduce clean air zones.
Climate Defiance disrupted the 2023 White House Correspondents Dinner, an event for Exxon CEO Darren Woods, and the speaking events of several powerful Democratic officials, including Tommy Beaudreau, Pete Buttigieg, Jennifer Granholm, Amy Klobuchar, Joe Manchin, Jerome Powell, and Ali Zaidi.
Carbon retirement has been described as "straightforward and transparent," compared to other offsets which can involve more complex methodologies and trading.
Related analysis of REDD+ policy “translation” in Laos has described how competing storylines and administrative dynamics shaped how readiness outputs were framed and operationalised, affecting perceptions of inclusion and accountability in the readiness process.
Carbon Clear is a founding member of the International Carbon Reduction and Offset Alliance (ICROA).
History The origin of GCI's intervention dates from 1989 and resulted in a statement published in 1990 in the Guardian June 18, 1991.
In December 2008, Element Markets installed a 20,000-square-foot (1,900 m2) solar photovoltaic power system on the roof of the Shops at Mission Viejo, a California mall owned by the Simon Property Group.
"Viewer mode" in RETScreen Expert is free and permits access to significant functionality of the software.
The Climate Mobilization was launched in September 2014, before the People's Climate March in New York City, specifically to organize politically around the concept of a rapid, World War II-scale government mobilization against climate change.
Related emissions reduction proposals and initiatives Carbon Rationing Action Groups – groups in the UK and US that voluntarily cap their greenhouse gas emissions "Icecaps" – devised by George Monbiot in his book Heat: How to Stop the Planet Burning.
Wider access to reliable electricity would lead to less use of kerosene lighting and diesel generators, which are currently common in the developing world.
The vehicle achieved 147 miles per gallon (mpg) city in plug-in electric hybrid mode (PHEV) and 52 mpg highway in hybrid mode, according to Sapphire Energy.
The Dream Machines were placed on college campuses, grocery stores and military bases across the US and collected more than 4 million plastic bottles in their first year of use.
International As of late 2024, discussions are underway at the International Maritime Organization regarding the details of an emission-reduction strategy that includes a carbon pricing system for international shipping.
No further action was taken, as leadership in several of the states switched positions on climate policy.
Since then the market for sustainability management services has grown in line with the need for private and public sector organisations to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, in response to new climate change legislation and the imperative for voluntary action.
Sandbag was re-branded as Ember in 2020 with a focus on the global power sector, while a separate Brussels-based organisation was established to continue work on the ETS.
Jayalalithaa, inaugurated a new 26,000 sq ft office in Raheja Towers in Anna Salai, where the bank started functioning in a full-fledged manner to process all of the bank's accounting functions and its global payrolls, with about 90 personnel.
The system is designed to facilitate completion and submission of verified emissions and benchmarking reports, viewing of approved emissions/benchmarking plans for existing operators and submission of emissions plans for new operators.
States with SREC markets There are currently 35 states (and Washington, D.C.) with existing Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS).
The vehicle was intended to provide a model for the viability of algae-based biofuels as a market alternative to fossil fuels.
On 9 December 2015, Volkswagen revised these estimates, saying that only around 36,000 vehicles are affected by the irregularities, while also affirming that it had found no evidence of unlawful changing of CO2 emissions data.
On 22 April 2021, along with an open letter to Grant Shapps with fifteen signatures, the Railway Industry Association published their report "Why Rail Electrification".
Personal carbon credits are a new approach to GHG reduction strategies and as such there are no specific protocols existing today within the various certification standards, specifically, because personal carbon credits are so new.
Assigned amount units were issued up to the level of initial "assigned amount" of an Annex 1 Party to the Kyoto Protocol.
Services and products Carbon Clear offers sustainability services including energy management, carbon footprint services, strategy and target setting and climate change risks and opportunities analysis.
The concept is that internal abatement of emissions should take precedence before external participation in flexible mechanisms.
Industry loss, without replacement, can lead to the "out-migration" of young people, altering the social demography of affected communities.
Allocation of carbon allowances During Phase 1 all permits were allocated freely without the employment of the auction system.
He further underscored the complexities and nuances of REDD+ and offered COONAPIP's contribution to national REDD+ efforts.
Preliminary results of an independent investigation and evaluation commissioned by the UN-REDD Programme were published, as well as a study of the conflict by a Central American non-governmental research center.
Most of the administrative expense and trust fund transactions for the Bank, which range between US$1 billion and US$2 billion a year, are processed in the Chennai office.
The Declaration was named for the Lofoten archipelago where public concern has successfully prevented offshore development of petroleum reserves.
The new name was chosen to suggest "‘verification’ and ‘terra’, and reflects the fundamental nature of our work".
Developing a carbon project is appropriate for renewable energy projects such as wind power, solar power, low impact-small hydropower, biomass, and biogas.
Based on the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism, CEB VER establishes criteria for validating, measuring, and monitoring carbon offset projects with the option to trade carbon credits and use them for surrendering for individuals, organizations or companies that want to be carbon neutral.
In January 2026, the government in India introduced Greenhouse gas emission Intensity targets for an additional 208 units.
Following the report, Brazilian police raided the three carbon credit projects belonging to Ricardo Stoppe, Brazil's top individual seller of carbon credits.
Article 17 also required that any such emissions trading must be supplemental to domestic action for the purpose of meeting quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments.
For example, Green Resources Ltd (GRL) is one owner of a long term lease from the Tanzanian government in order to reforest certain areas.
Other ways of taking climate justice into account, such as granting exemptions to ports in selected countries, have also been considered, but this opens up opportunities for price avoidance and risks unfairly disadvantaging some countries.
Exporters have to pay the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism from 1 January 2026 until the Turkish ETS starts.
In order to compensate the landowners for lost production, EBEX21 applies strict rules based on the Kyoto Protocol to allocate voluntary carbon credits that are pooled and sold through the carboNZero programme.
Utility bicycles tend to be equipped with accessories such as mudguards, pannier racks and lights, which extend their usefulness on a daily basis.
Instead, because the remaining 1,000 allowances had to be allocated to the lowest bidder, the settlement price for all participants was lowered to $20.
The NRDC's study also rebutted the claim that the pipeline will lead to energy independence because the pipeline would carry tar sands from Canada to Texas for export to the global market.
CEB VER is a quality standard for the voluntary carbon offset industry created by Commodity Exchange Bratislava.
The list of signatories has grown to 270 governments, representing over 1.75 billion people and 50% of the world economy.
If there is not enough money, the federal and state governments currently share the additional costs.
The Porsche Panamera equipped with the VW-EA897 engine, made by Audi, exhibited an 8.3-fold limit violation with an average NOx emissions of 1,498 mg/km, according to DUH.
At the 2009 Copenhagen climate conference, a Bangladeshi delegate told reporters that Bangladesh might let the World Bank manage the funds, if that was set as a condition by funders.
Other trace components of this mixture includes water vapor, hydrogen sulfide, siloxanes, hydrocarbons, ammonia, oxygen, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen.
The structure and process of the ETSWAP system was outlined in a Mutual Understanding Document produced by the governments of the UK, Germany, Ireland and The Netherlands, which also dubbed the system "Workflow Automation Project" (WAP).
Moyes (2008) describes this as a "flexible cap" where New Zealand sourced emissions regulated by the NZETS are constrained only by the international market price for GHG emissions.
On 10 October 2015, Consumer Reports tested a 2015 Jetta TDI and a 2011 Jetta Sportwagen TDI in what they presumed was the special emissions testing, or cheat mode.
Method Captured CO2 is dissolved in water, either prior to or during injection into mafic or ultramafic formations, such as basalts.
Methodologies Methodology expresses the exact calculation of how many carbon credits can be issued for project developers.
REPs are incentives for homeowners, farmers, businesses, etc., to become producers of renewable energy, or to increase their production of renewable energy.
References External links CEB Website Archived 2009-03-27 at the Wayback Machine VER Registry Archived 2013-04-29 at the Wayback Machine The VER+ Standard profile on database of Market Governance Mechanisms
Global capacity estimates are uncertain, particularly for saline aquifers where more site characterization and exploration is still needed.
Carbon markets compensate for companies' greenhouse gas emissions and purchasing these carbon credits can remove or reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
These same credits are created when specific GHG reduction projects produce real, additional and verifiable GHG reductions.
The Liberal Government under Jean Chrétien and Paul Martin approved over $45 million to fund the program from 2003 to 2006.
Annual reporting should help the government to evaluate and adjust its specific climate protection measures in the short-term.
As at July 2011, ETSWAP is configured for reporting of carbon emissions by the aviation sector and has been used by 600 aviation operators in the UK and 200 in the Republic of Ireland.
The Climate Mobilization (TCM) is a grassroots environmental advocacy group working toward large-scale political action against global warming.
Critical climate change experts decry these credits as a way for countries to buy their way out of taking action to address climate change.
Environmental characteristics Average slope gradient: 70% Aspect: the exclosure is oriented towards the northeast Minimum altitude: 2,635 metres Maximum altitude: 2,705 metres Lithology: Basalt Management As a general rule, cattle ranging and wood harvesting are not allowed.
Former voluntary scheme The former UK Emissions Trading Scheme was a voluntary emissions trading system created as a pilot prior to the mandatory EUETS.
Additionally, carbon retirement encompasses the purchase and permanent retirement of carbon credits, certificates representing the prevention of greenhouse gas emissions or removing these gases from the atmosphere.
Climate Defiance is supported by Margaret Klein Salamon's Climate Emergency Fund, which provides about half of Climate Defiance's budget.
The third phase of CERT (previously known as Energy Efficiency Commitment 3) originally ran from 2008 to 2011 and increased the previous targets to 154 MtC.
It is published and administered by the Gold Standard Foundation, a non-profit foundation headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland.
The emission reduction unit (ERU) was an emissions unit issued under a Joint Implementation project in terms of the Kyoto Protocol.
In December 2013, the Panama UN-REDD National Programme was reopened following an agreement between the Panama Government, through its National Environmental Authority (ANAM), and indigenous peoples, through the National Coordinating Entity of Indigenous Peoples in Panama (COONAPIP).
History Ember was originally founded in 2008 as Sandbag, focussing on the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme, allowing its members to campaign to reduce the number of permits in circulation and to purchase permits and cancel them.
Use 2020: McKinsey Sustainability reported a significant uptick in the retirement of carbon credits, with approximately 95 million tons of CO2 equivalent retired in 2020 alone, more than doubling the figures from 2017.
References Further reading Kreibich, Nicolas; Hermwille, Lukas; Warnecke, Carsten; Arens, Christof (23 February 2017).
The Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act of Alberta was the first law of its type to impose greenhouse gas cuts on large industrial facilities.
Subsequent inspections must be conducted by an accredited energy assessor within five years of the previous inspection.
This category includes eliminating waste by turning off unneeded lights and appliances and by avoiding unnecessary journeys.
If having to pay this cost is unexpected, then there will likely be a one-time loss due to the change in regulations and not simply due to paying the real cost of carbon.
Other campaigners are strongly critical of World Bank-funded projects, which they say "have often created ecological hazards and destroyed ecological goods and services." Bangladeshi opponents of a World Bank-managed MDTF include the Equity and Justice Working Group Bangladesh (EquityBD).
Similar to the AGF report, there are many high-profile reports; addressing climate finance sources with a focus on innovative sources.
The Open Coalition on Compliance Carbon Markets with the aim of establishing a global carbon market was created in the COP 30, partially due to CBAM.
The name was changed in advance of the 2008 elections by Barnes as he began an effort to raise the profile of the idea with a new book, Climate Solutions: A Citizens Guide and numerous media interviews.
However, SREC contracts longer than 3 years can be difficult to secure in some SREC markets because, in deregulated electricity markets, energy suppliers rarely have electricity supply contracts longer than three years.
Public governance, with the introduction of coherent and predictable policies which favour the energetic transition, along with the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies and the introduction of carbon pricing.
The current CEO is Josiane Sadaka, a British-educated brand manager for other companies owned by Sheikh Ahmed as well.
Other papers published in the late 1990s by economists at Wharton Econometric Forecasting Associates (and later, in the 2010s, at MIT), also with funding from the fossil fuel industry, produced similar conclusions.
In 2008, the CEMARS sister brand was created and a UK license partner, Achilles Group, began offering CEMARS to its customers in the UK.
They aimed to introduce a mandatory cap and trade system for greenhouse gases, as a response to the threat of anthropogenic climate change.
Hot air in economics refers to the Assigned Amount Units (AAU) credits given for the reduction of Green House Gas (GHG) emissions among the former Soviet Bloc countries since 1990.
The program is administered by the Gold Standard Foundation, a non-profit foundation under Swiss law that is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland.
Brokerage companies typically handle sales between companies having surplus ERCs and those wanting to acquire such credits.
The Turkish Emissions Trading System is the carbon emission trading system for greenhouse gas emissions by Turkey, which is supposed to start in Q3 2026, with a pilot phase including industries such as cement.
In total, Blue Carbon has secured forested area equivalent to the land area of the entire United Kingdom.
The effectiveness of the EU ETS was criticized, and it was argued that the CDM had routinely favoured "environmentally ineffective and socially unjust projects".
Russia accounts for about two-thirds of these projected savings, with the remainder divided up roughly equally between Ukraine and the EU's New Member States.
Under Article 6, any Annex I country can invest in a project to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in any other Annex I country (referred to as a "Joint Implementation Project") as an alternative to reducing emissions domestically.
In August 2023, the Polish government filed a series of complaints with the European Court of Justice against provisions that are part of the Fit for 55 package, claiming that EU climate policies threaten Poland's economy and energy security.
Notably, the Global Climate Plan includes a mechanism that prevents middle-income countries such as China from being net contributor of international transfers, to encourage broader international participation.
In other words, according to this approach, humankind never performed a single energy transition in its history but performed several energy additions.
TM44 inspections, or Air Conditioning Energy Assessments (ACEA), are required by law in the United Kingdom under the Energy Performance of Buildings Regulations 2007, amended in 2011 and 2012.
The objective of the GS is to add branding, with a quality label, to carbon credits generated by projects which can then be bought and traded by countries that have a binding legal commitment according to the Kyoto Protocol, businesses, or other organizations for carbon offsetting purposes.
The findings of reports are then reviewed through a broad consultation process within and outside of the commission.
government still considers a carbon market as the more viable way to finance climate change activities.
National and regional RETScreen training workshops have been conducted upon the official request of the Governments of Chile, Saudi Arabia, 15 countries in West and Central Africa, and the Latin American Energy Organization (OLADE).
Edgar Kempers and Rob Van Hilton launched the Kiwah (kilowatt hour) currency at the Copenhagen Climate Summit in 2009.
The signatories believe these actions are consistent with findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) of what is necessary to avoid a 2 degree Celsius rise in average global temperatures.
Beginning April 1, 2007, and expiring March 31, 2013, the initial tax rate was set at $0.0022/kWh for residential customers, $0.0004/kWh for commercial customers, and $0.0002/kWh for industrial customers.
Simon Upton, a former National Party MP and Minister for the Environment, was appointed as a special envoy to liaise with other countries on the issue.
Climate Change Credit Corporation Allocation of special Emission Permits by the Climate Change Corporation (to be created as part of the Climate Stewardship and Innovation Act) was intended to provide funding for assistance for consumers and industry to fully comply with the act.
There is an argument that the use of per capita emissions as a basis in the following Kyoto-type treaties can reduce the sense of inequality among developed and developing countries alike, as it can reveal in activities and responsibilities among countries.
CCX employed independent verification, included six greenhouse gases, and traded greenhouse gas emission allowances from 2003 to 2010.
The Financial Times published an article about cap-and-trade systems which argued that "Carbon markets create a muddle" and "...leave much room for unverifiable manipulation".
With this information it is then possible to allocate a project's resources in such a way to minimize the total amount of Carbon Dioxide emitted into the atmosphere through the use of a given piece of space.
However, animations of C&C as 'Climate Justice without Vengeance' show the financial implications of negotiating an 'accelerated convergence', an issue that remains directly relevant to achieving the 'global climate deal' still sought for COP-16 and beyond.
Critics argue that emissions trading does little to solve pollution problems overall, since groups that do not pollute sell their conservation to the highest bidder.
In January 2011, the UK's All Party Parliamentary Group on Peak Oil published a report into TEQs, garnering significant media coverage.
The analysis promised that phase-out of nuclear energy and full transition to renewable energy "can be completed within a decade".
Coverage The UK ETS is initially limited to internal flights, electricity generation and industries which use a lot of energy: but the scheme will be expanded.
China, Argentina, Brazil and South Africa are among the countries that have opposed such measures on these grounds.
The gases are dissolved in condensate from the plant's turbines and injected into the basaltic subsurface below 900 m.
31% of participants said they frequently used the 9-euro ticket on routes they would otherwise have taken by car.
After defeat, he offered a second amendment that would have cancelled only Title III (the cap-and-trade plan) of the Act if residential electricity prices rise by 20%.
In some countries these may be known as bicycle rodeos, or operated as schemes such as Bikeability in the UK.
Application Article 17 of the Kyoto Protocol allowed emissions trading between Annex B Parties (countries).
states, local governments have formed regional power purchasing pools using Community Choice Aggregation and Solar Bonds to achieve a 51% renewable mix or higher, such as in the City of San Francisco.
greenhouse gas emissions—is to allow for continued and dangerous delay in real action by our country at a time when the world is looking to the U.S.
In early March 2017, Piech asked Winterkorn whether there had been a warning by US agencies, which Winterkorn denied.
Both Pakistan and The Bahamas joined this call in December, bringing the total number of countries working towards the development of a Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty to 15 in early 2025.
Fossil fuel divestment The fossil fuel divestment campaign, also known as "Fossil Free", borrows activist tactics from other social movements, notably the successful campaign for disinvestment from South Africa over apartheid.
The process begins with some governments setting aggregate pollution quotas (e.g., for carbon emissions) and selling pollution permits to the public respectively.
CO2-Plume Geothermal (CPG) is a proposed technology that combines carbon capture and storage (CCS/CCUS) with geothermal energy extraction, utilising carbon dioxide (CO2) itself as a geothermal energy extraction fluid.
To further examine support for such policies, Fabre, Douenne, and Mattauch (2025) conducted a complementary study with representative samples of 3,000 Europeans and 5,000 Americans.
They provide tools for organisations, products, services and events to measure and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions (otherwise known as carbon footprint), and optionally offset it.
Controversy remains over whether using captured CO2 to extract more oil ultimately benefits the climate.
There is no legal requirement for organisations to act on or implement any of the recommendations made in the report.
On one hand, a tax will remove capital from the industry, suppressing possibly useful economic activity, but conversely, the polluter will not need to hedge as much against future uncertainty since the amount of tax will track with profits.
Environmental organisations Greenpeace Aotearoa New Zealand noted that the intensity-based allocation of NZ Units to industry and the slow phase-out of free units would allow emissions to grow and described the NZ ETS as "pathetic".
History The London Accord began in 2005, was launched formally in March 2007 and published its first results on 19 December 2007 launching them at a roll out meeting at Mansion House in London.
This was realized through extensive consultations between ANAM and COONAPIP to resolve issues and develop an Environmental Agenda between indigenous peoples and the ANAM, which includes a revised result framework of the UN-REDD National Joint Programme of Panama.
Nevertheless, a couple of international governance instruments have addressed geoengineering collectively.
The company initially stated it would focus on carbon storage on marine ecosystems, known as Blue carbon.
Failure to commission, keep or provide an updated TM44 inspection report when required by an enforcement authority could lead to a fine of £300 per unit.
Currently, these cover carbon, water and waste and have been awarded to hundreds of leading companies and organisations across the world.
Founding CEO Tom Delay previously worked at Shell for 16 years before beginning his 22-year tenure as CEO of the trust.
The cap-and-trade system is a tool of carbon pricing that has been adapted by several countries to mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through a market mechanism.
The terms of reference of the task group was: Australia enjoys major competitive advantages through the possession of large reserves of fossil fuels and uranium.
CO2 captured from local chemical plants and refineries will both be sequestered in the North Sea seabed.
As a result, profit-maximising firms receiving free permits will raise prices to customers because of the new, non-zero cost of emissions.
The final accepted compromise became stronger in CO2 emission reduction than the proposal from the European Commission.
Participating facilities are required to create a yearly emission inventory verified by a third party which was reported to the government.
Methods Carbon dioxide removal Solar radiation modification Glacial geoengineering Governance Most governance issues relating to geoengineering are specific to the category or the specific method.
ICAP intends to work closely with the global Open Coalition on Compliance Carbon Markets, and Brazil's membership in ICAP should facilitate it.
The review concluded that the scheme did achieve some emission reductions from the participants, although more could have been achieved had targets been more demanding.
The facility has two main windows: a Readiness Fund focused on supporting readiness preparation and implementation, and a Carbon Fund intended to pilot results-based payments for verified emission reductions from the forest sector.
SRM aims to reduce global warming by reflecting a small portion of sunlight (solar radiation) away from Earth and back into space.
To promote this program, the government placed television and print ads featuring comedian Rick Mercer.
History The Carbon Neutrality Coalition (CNC) was founded in 2017 by 16 countries and 32 cities, inspired by Bhutan.
More than 525 business entities are subject to the ETS with specific emission targets set for each sectors.
On November 1, 2025, compliance entities were required to surrender instruments covering 30% of their 2024 emissions as well as any of their under-reported emissions from 2023, if applicable.
The ICAP courses provide an intensive ten-day to two-week-long introduction to all aspects of the design and implementation of emissions trading systems as a tool to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.
The objective is to mitigate climate change through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Latin America and to improve the quality of life of the population in the areas of intervention.
See also Klimaticket in Austria References External links Federal government's information on the Deutschlandticket Deutsche Bahn's page on the Deutschlandticket Rhein-Main-Verkehrsverbund's page on the Deutschlandticket
The programme was selected into the FCPF Carbon Fund and an Emission Reductions Payment Agreement (ERPA) was signed under the Carbon Fund framework, reflecting the facility’s approach of linking payments to verified emission-reduction performance rather than readiness planning alone.
New Zealand Herald journalist Brian Rudman commented that National's approach was "indulging Mr Hide in his fruitcake views on global warming".
In 2021, a 10% stake in the South Pole was bought by Lightrock, a leading global impact investor backed by LGT and the Princely House of Liechtenstein.
On 11 November 2016, Reuters news agency reported that chancellor Angela Merkel and ministers Gabriel and Hendricks had agreed on a new draft.
Its first act was to take over the UK government's £17m pa Energy Efficiency Best Practice Programme (EEBPP) in 2002, a UK-wide information-based measure providing independent advice and support on existing energy efficient technologies and energy management practices.
In September 2020 the Traction Decarbonisation Network Strategy Interim Business case was published.
Policymakers and carbon market experts also share their insight into key milestones in setting up and running an ETS.
Conversion efficiency of energy production Losses are incurred when energy is harvested from the natural resource from which it is derived, such as fossil fuels, radioactive materials, solar radiation or other sources.
On 13 September, the Hamburg transport agency reported that it had sold over a million subscriptions.
And it will help renew the health of our planet." ICAP includes members from various jurisdictions such as the European Union, the Western Climate Initiative (WCI), the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), New Zealand, and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government.
On 31 March 2023, the Bundesrat approved the bill passed by the Bundestag for a nationwide ticket for local and regional public transportation at a monthly price of 49 euros.
This infrastructure has led to increasingly frequent brown outs and black outs, high CO2 emissions, higher energy costs, and power quality issues.
In the Carbon Profiling Model these emissions are measured in BER’s (Building Emission Rate) in kg of CO2/m2/year.
For example, Pathways from Paris – Accessing the INDC Opportunity, is a 25-page study of INDCs (i.e.
The CO2 would then be cooled and condensed back to a dense phase and re-injected into the reservoir, closing the cycle and enabling all CO2 to remain sequestered.
Trading reached zero monthly volume in February 2010 and remained at zero for the next nine months when the decision to close the exchange was announced.
Audits are conducted to comply with BSI PAS 2060, ISO 14064 and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard 2011.
A complete list of measures and details can be found in the official plan (2006-2012): Quebec and Climate Change -- A Challenge for the Future.
The tax rate for gasoline in Canadian currency was 0.8 cents per litre, or about $3.50 per tonne of CO2 equivalent.
(www.viveberlintours.com) 9-Euro-Ticket (www.bahn.com) Germany’s €9 train tickets scheme ‘saved 1.8m tons of CO2 emissions’.
Given that the lowest settlement price (as of April 2026) that has ever occurred in a Washington state auction is $24.02, all participants that have successfully purchased allowances from the auction so far have paid at least $24,020.
For every 1,000 searches, Ecocho claimed that 1 ton of greenhouse gases are offset through the planting of trees.
And the first step is to keep fossil fuels in the ground." The open letter, published a day before U.S.
The CO2 was captured using a Direct Air Capture (DAC) unit developed by the Swiss green-tech company Climeworks.
The organization criticized the classification of bioenergy as renewable energy and the sale of non-emission-free cars by 2035.
The company speculated in April 2023 that pending good economic conditions, the low-carbon solutions business could eclipse the value of its oil and gas operations.
Since signatories to the Under2 MOU submit their action plans as an appendix to the document this is the first time some cities and states around the world are coming up with plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in their jurisdiction.
The European Fuel Oxygenates Association identifies MTBE and ETBE as the most commonly used ethers in fuel to replace lead.
These sources are treated as being inexhaustible, or naturally replenished, and fall into two classes.
On 16 February 1980, the German Federal Ministry of the Environment hosted a symposium in Berlin called Energiewende: Atomausstieg und Klimaschutz (Energy Transition: Nuclear Phase-Out and Climate Protection).
References External links Climate Change and Emissions Management Act Alberta Government, Environment, Climate Change
Recent proposals for alternative schemes to avoid the problems of cap-and-trade schemes include Cap and Share, which was being actively considered by the Irish Parliament in May 2008, and the Sky Trust schemes.
Price stabilisation The auction reserve price is £22 per tonne, which is the minimum to be paid at auction.
As well as price, emissions from ships above 5000 tonnes calling at EU ports are also limited by regulation.
The application is designed to meet the new requirements of the EU ETS resulting from the 2008/101/CE Directive.
Only battery electric vehicles and hydrogen vehicles are allowed in a ZEZ, along with walking and cycling and fully electric public transport vehicles, e.g.
As such, the weighted average cost of carbon is the cost a company incurs to balance its carbon liability (carbon footprint).
The switches were ordered to be removed from production but cars already on the road did not have to be recalled, and fines were relatively modest.
"Chicago Climate Futures Exchange Announces First Futures Delivery of Renewable Energy Certificates", Chicago Climate Exchange, August 11, 2009.
SDG 13: Climate Action: by reducing the amount of wood burned to cook and purify water, reducing carbon emissions.
See also Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit Removal Units Voluntary Emissions Reduction Flexible mechanisms List of Kyoto Protocol signatories == References ==
See also Climate, Community & Biodiversity Alliance Verified Carbon Standard References External links Gold Standard organization
This standard was intended as a quality standard for transacting and developing "non-Kyoto" Protocol carbon credits.
Political feasibility and challenges Theoretical analysis of a supply-side climate treaty suggests that 'distributive conflict' remains a primary obstacle to its effectiveness.
Although the intent with both methods is the same, to stimulate growth in the alternative and renewable energy space, REP's have proven to offer benefits to local jobs, businesses and economies while making the growth fundable and lendable by financial institutions.
"Supplementarity", also referred to as "the supplementary principle", is one of the main principles of the Kyoto Protocol.
He was previously involved in deals to sell Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine at a premium during the COVID 19 pandemic.
Some governments have found that the data produced by the climate action plan increases transparency and helps with longterm planning to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Element Markets is among the major companies in the environmental markets and has been recognized as such in industry publications, such as Environmental Finance and Energy Risk magazines.
The economic harm in the EU and UK was estimated at €760bn, with a further €430bn by 2040 unless action is taken.
General emission reduction strategies The two main approaches that have been developed to address this problem include a command-and-control regulatory system and Emissions credit trading.
This translates to an average annual cost of about $175 per household when considering both direct and indirect expenses.
The declaration received the support of 744 organizations, spanning 76 countries and helped mobilize efforts for a global treaty on fossil fuel production.
However, algal biofuel fuel only accounted for 5% of the overall diesel blend, the remainder of which was derived from fossil fuels.
The carboNZero programme and CEMARS programme are the world's first internationally accredited greenhouse gas (GHG) certification schemes under ISO 14065.
In the United States, Volkswagen withdrew its application for emissions certification for its 2016 diesel models, leaving thousands of vehicles stranded at ports in October 2015, which the company said contained software which should have been disclosed to and certified by the EPA.
The Carbon Neutrality Coalition (CNC) is a group of countries, cities and organisations which have committed to take concrete and ambitious action to achieve the aims of the Paris Agreement.
The General Assembly of COONAPIP, which took place on 29 November 2013 in Playa Muerto, in the Darien province of Panama, approved the Environmental Agenda jointly developed between ANAM and COONAPIP.
Common Sense, subtitled A New Constitution for Britain is a book written by the British Labour politician Tony Benn and Andrew Hood.
Baptist view The basic concept of individual soul liberty, is that in matters of religion, each person has the liberty to choose what conscience or soul dictates is right, and is responsible to no one but God for the decision that is made.
There is no state religion, although the preamble to the constitution mentions "the Christian principles" the country is founded upon.
Societal abuses and discrimination There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Freedom of religion in Taiwan is provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of China, which is in force on Taiwan.
Its use is of patriotic or ceremonial character and bears no true resemblance to a governmental sponsorship of a religious exercise.
The introduction of the bill was intended more for public discussion than with any real hope that it would become law.
Those who are registered as non-religious (not belonging to any religious group) also pay the tax, which is used to support the University of Iceland.
Reports from humanitarian groups indicated that in early July al-Shabaab abducted at least 45 elders in El Buur District for failing to hand over 150 children to the group.
He received the award on November 11, 2005 for his "fearless and courageous commitment to freedom of belief and human rights in Egypt." Selection Committee The laureates are chosen by a committee appointed by the Stefanus Alliance International.
My duties dictate a faithful and zealous pursuit of the interests of my constituents, and in proportion as they are persuaded of my fidelity to those duties, the discharge of them becomes more and more pleasing.
These views culminated in some colonials rejecting that traditional African faiths were proper religions.
The Utraquist and the Catholic faiths were declared equal in front of the law, and the religious peace (Landfried) was declared for the following 31 years.
On 4 October, a sentence was pronounced: fourteen were to be tortured and burned alive; five to be flogged and banished; ten, all women, were set free while the remainder were to undergo graded forms of penance.
The church congregation had been part of China's network of government-run churches since the 1990s.
Since Turkey desired to promote secularism, the ECHR held that if Turkey determined the banning of headscarves necessary, it would not rule against the abrogation of Leyal Sahin’s religious right.
Others Several religious minorities have reported difficulties in planning permission for building houses of worship.
During the 1980s, AA operated a chapter program intended to increase membership through the activities of these chapters.
Their trials ended on 5 August 2019, and the men were sentenced to prison time, ranging from 5–8 years.
The Government has not allowed the Seventh-day Adventists to import Bibles or other religious materials, but the Government did allow the LEC to import a small number of Bibles in early 2007.
After 1867, this party added like-minded reformers from the Maritime provinces, but struggled to win power, especially in still strongly-Catholic Quebec.
Representatives of religious minorities on the main island of Funafuti report that they are able to practice their faiths freely.
Under his proposal, disused solars would be sold mainly to the rich, because they had the means to cultivate the land, with a smaller number reserved for farmers who had two pairs of oxen.
Increasingly, the majority of board members came from the Tampa Bay area, and eventually the Tampa chapter obtained space in a commercial building in South Tampa, which evolved into the headquarters of the organization.
The Constitution prohibits discrimination on the basis of caste; however, the caste system strongly influences society.
King Henry IV had granted Huguenots significant amount of freedom to practice their faith when he announced the Edict of Nantes on 13 April 1598.
According to SARA, there were 2,113 registered religious entities, including mosques, churches, foundations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) of a religious nature, and religious educational institutions.
Public schools provide one hour of non-compulsory religious education per week; in practice, few students opt out of these lessons.
In a 2013 poll conducted by Prospect magazine, Dawkins was ranked first in the list of "world thinkers" rankings.
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
Argentina The original Argentine Constitution of 1853 provided that all Argentine presidents must be Catholic and stated that the duty of the Argentine congress was to convert the Indians to Catholicism.
The criminal code prohibits discrimination based on religion and provides penalties of up to two years in prison for violations.
"Persevering in the Faith: Catholic Worship and Communal Identity in the Wake of the Edict of Nantes".
In 2022, members of other religious groups combined constitute less than 1 percent of the population and include a small Christian community, and an unknown number of Shia Muslims, as well as Hindus, Buddhists, Jews and some animists.
In the referendum of May 20, 1973, the federal decree on the repeal of the Jesuit and monastery articles of the Federal Constitution was adopted, thereby removing these articles from the constitution.
The declaration claimed that Turkish troops forced the priest conducting the service to remove his vestments and ordered everybody to leave the church, thus violating the European Convention on Human Rights.
History The Stefanus Prize was established in 2005 by the Norwegian NGO Stefanus Alliance International, and has been awarded biennially since 2008.
History Context Castellio was a Protestant humanist theologian who initially worked in Strasbourg before moving to Geneva to assist John Calvin.
Taiwan's government generally respects freedom of religion in practice, with policies which contribute to the generally free practice of religion.
The Constitution of Albania provides for freedom of religion, and the Government has generally respected this right in practice.
In front of this location 14 Reformists, arrested during a cult, were burned on October 8, 1546 at the decree of the Parliament in Paris on October 4, 1546.
In fact, such secular uses of the motto was viewed as sacrilegious and irreverent by President Theodore Roosevelt.
Therefore, if Servetus had wanted to kill Calvin, it would have been right for the magistrate to defend Calvin.
Current situation The government's approach towards religious minorities allegedly continued to improve.
If their parents are married and belong to different religious groups, the babies are not registered in any church until the parents agree on how to register them.
The Government does not maintain records of an individual's religious identity, and there is no law that requires religious groups to register with the state; however, the General Election Committee has adopted a policy barring all non-Muslims from running for Parliament.
McClintock v Department of Constitutional Affairs [2008] IRLR 29, Times 5 December 2007, is a UK employment discrimination law case concerning freedom of religion under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, unfair dismissal (s.94ff.
Here it is stated (using the judgment of the Court of Appeal, [2002] EWCA Civ 1856, as authority) that the Appellants, in order to rely on Article 9, would have to prove that the interference with Convention Rights was 'flagrant'.
Evangelical Christian groups have been pressured by government authorities to compile and submit membership lists for their congregations, but evangelicals have resisted this demand.
Such a society can cohere only if all its participants accept that certain basic norms and standards are binding.
Declaration as to the religious character of certain places of worship and bar of jurisdiction of courts, etc.
On 2 July 1993, Alevi intellectuals were attacked in Sivas; the Sivas massacre resulted in the deaths of 37 people.
The Prometheus Society (Swedish: Studentföreningen Prometheus, Finnish: Prometheus-seura) was a Finnish student society at the University of Helsinki from 1905 to 1914, whose main purpose was to promote religious freedom.
If found guilty, the penalties were as follows: first offence: imprisonment for up to three months without bail, or a five pounds fine (to be paid to the poor of the convicted person's parish).
The treaties with the Holy See are referred to as concordats whereas the treaties with Protestant Churches and umbrellas of Jewish congregations are called "state treaties".
Notes a Wayland states further "No man of his age had so clear conceptions of the rights of conscience as the founder of Rhode Island, and no one had ever carried them so honestly to their legitimate conclusions.
The work is famous for being the source of Castellio's most well-known quote: "To kill a man is not to defend a doctrine, it is to kill a man." The text is considered one of the earliest debates on the issue of religious tolerance.
The committee claims that its records on religious organizations facilitate the granting of residence permits by police to foreign employees of various religious organizations.
The immediate cause of the repressions was the refusal of both the religious organization and its individual members to sign the Stockholm Appeal.
Interfaith dialogue occurred regularly, and citizens respected different religious traditions and practices, including syncretistic beliefs.
Meminisse iuvat (14 July 1958) is an encyclical of Pope Pius XII, asking for prayers for the persecuted Church in the East and criticizing harmful cultural developments in the West.
Societal abuses and discrimination There is societal discrimination against non-Muslims, particularly Christians, in some sectors of society.
He was told by his employer, the Department of Constitutional Affairs (now the Ministry of Justice), that he would not be able to get an exemption from his duties.
A century later, the Agreement is believed to have "greatly influence[ed] the development of the U.S.
History Three years prior to the first introduction of the Commonwealth of Britain Bill, Charter 88 was launched, aiming to codify civil rights.
This opposition reached its peak with the execution of Michael Servetus, a Christian theologian deemed heterodox, who was burned alive in Geneva.
It also ensured that the Protestant minority in France would have a measure of religious and political freedom, and helped to establish France as a more tolerant and pluralistic society.
Bosnian Franciscans used the Ahdname of Milodraž not only in relations with the Muslim authorities, but also to protect themselves from the ambitions of Eastern Orthodox clergy when the latter claimed the right to collect tax from them too on the basis of an earlier firman.
In the 2009 respectively 2011 indexes South Korea was placed in the category Low and in the 2015 index the country was placed in the category Moderate.
Confiscation was one of the political weapons with which Spanish liberals modified the system of ownership of the country's Ancient Régime during the first half of the 19th century.
In 2009, Bill Maher received the award for his film Religulous; oncologist David Gorski called the decision "inappropriate" due to Maher's views on vaccines and criticism of evidence-based medicine.
As a result of the incorporation of the Bill of Rights after the American Civil War, the protections of the Bill of Rights were extended to the individual states on the basis of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
The issue in the case was whether a person can be deported from the United Kingdom to a state where there are known human rights abuses, or refused asylum to the United Kingdom when the applicant is from such a state.
The Colombian Constitution of 1991 abolished the previous condition of the Roman Catholic Church as state church, and it includes two articles providing for freedom of worship: Art.
At all levels, the Japanese Government seeks to protect this right in full and does not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
It was only in the referendum of June 10, 2001 (approved by 64 percent of the population and all cantons) that the paragraph was deleted without replacement as the last of the remaining Special Provisions.
The constitution prohibits any law or culture that contravenes Islam and prohibits demonstrations contrary to Islam.
Pardiwala gave the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta more time to file an affidavit, as it clubbed together petitions filed by several people including former BJP MP Subramanian Swamy and advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, who had filed his plea on March 12, 2021.
The two, a pastor and his wife, were released after three-weeks' detention and payment of a $9,000 fine.
During the Indian Prime Minister's visit to Bahrain he announced redevelopment project for the Shrinathji (Krishna) Temple which will cost $4.2 million.
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1863 (26 & 27 Vict.
Unlike prior reporting periods, some of Khartoum's English-language newspapers featured lengthy articles on Christian themes.
Just as Christ our Redeemer rose in triumph, so the Church shall some day win a peaceful victory over all her enemies." The Pope encourages the faithful in the East to have confidence, and to be brave and steadfast soldiers, quoting St.
Castellio's defense extended beyond heterodox Christians to include religious tolerance for Jews and Muslims, whom he referred to as "Turks".
Embassy chapels led to diplomatic tension between the English government and the Catholic governments who operated the embassies between 1625 and 1660.
No-one is to attack them, nor threaten their lives, property or churches." Its form and content, as well as Mehmed's personal oath, resemble that of an international treaty.
Although the Government monitored, including by filming, Protestant and Muslim religious groups in the past, there were no reports of surveillance during the period covered by this report.
An estimated 23 percent of the population adheres to traditional indigenous religious beliefs; some of the traditional indigenous groups promoted cures for HIV, AIDS and other ailments.
Religious associations must include at least 10 religious communities, one of which must have been active in the country for at least 20 years, and may be constituted only by a republican (national level) religious association.
The media, in an attempt to explain the ideology of Ayatollah Khomeini and the Iranian Revolution to a Western audience described it as a "fundamentalist version of Islam" by way of analogy to the Christian fundamentalist movement in the U.S.
Abuses of religious freedom During the reporting period, security officials arbitrarily arrested and detained some individuals suspected of proselytizing and looking for H.A.Lutf Alshabi for the same reason.
This is out of a total population of 127 million, but does not account for overlapping memberships (some families may be registered at both a Buddhist temple and a Shinto shrine), or double membership due to change of address.
The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which is entrenched in the Constitution, states in the preamble that Canada "is founded upon principles that recognize the supremacy of God and the rule of law." Freedom of religion as also guaranteed.
Leadership The current co-chairs of the International Religious Freedom Caucus are Gus Bilirakis (Republican) and Dan Lipinski (Democrat) Members, 112th Congress == References ==
Burger's successor, William Rehnquist, called for the abandonment of the "wall of separation between church and State" metaphor in Wallace v.
Even though the jury was imprisoned for their acquittal, they stood by their decision and helped establish freedom of religion in the area.
I go further: no one has yet been able either to take from or add to the principles of religious liberty which he so simply and powerfully set forth.
Although it occurs in only one patristic text and in no classical Roman sources or inscriptions, the phrase has spawned abundant scholarly conjecture on its possible significance.
Maria reportedly kept the customs of her ancestors, including refraining from eating pork, ceasing work on Friday and praying only to HaShem.
Aside from Christianity in its various denominations, Judaism constitutes another religion of notable presence in Uruguay, followed by Umbanda, although the latter is represented in considerably smaller numbers.
Stefanus Alliance International awards every second year the Stefanus Prize, a human rights prize, to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to the work for freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Christian leaders cite these requirements as exacerbating problems in the relationship between the Muslim majority and the Christian minority, marginalizing Christianity's place in northern society.
Disputes arising from public or private law concerning the formation or separation of religious communities may be submitted to the decision of the competent federal authorities by way of appeal.
As demolition efforts began in 2013, government officials increased tension by cutting off the church's electricity and water supply.
However, since 2006 the prime minister has appointed two Shia ministers to each cabinet, including the current one.
Therefore, Ladele made an application to the Employment Tribunal, complaining of direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of religion or belief and harassment.
The agreement between representatives of both sides, reached after meeting from 13 March to 20 March, declared the agreement from the Basel Council the basic law of the land.
The GOC is not able to travel to Abkhazia and few GOC worshippers in Abkhazia are able to travel to Tbilisi as only a few ethnic Georgians had passports issued by the Abkhazia authorities.
During year 2004, representatives of the Eastern Orthodox Church expressed concerns that churches, crosses, and other buildings were targets of vandalism.
Thus, there cannot be said that any religious organization is more legitimate than other in Korea, from a legal point of view.
Registered religious organizations operate on a tax-free basis and are required to submit annual reports of their financial operations.
At first he said that there was evidence to show that children placed with same-sex couples would be disadvantaged when compared to a child placed with a heterosexual family.
See also Religion in Benin Christianity in Benin Catholic Church in Benin Islam in Benin References International Religious Freedom Report 2007: Benin.
Restrictions on religious freedom In 2023, the country was scored 4 out of 4 for religious freedom; all religious groups must register with the government.
According to the school, as the girls had not yet reached puberty they did not qualify for an exemption from swimming lessons under Swiss law.
Augustine: This I suppose was added because of those who wish to boast of persecutions and evil reports of their shame, and therefore claim to belong to Christ because many evil things are said of them; but either these are true, or when false yet they are not for Christ's sake.
For Art 8, ‘given the almost inevitable compromise and balance between work and family commitments, particularly in families where both partners work’ there was no interference, to constitute any violation.
Nelson As a religious minority in Connecticut, the Danbury Baptists were concerned that a religious majority might "reproach their chief Magistrate...
The Calverts intended the colony to function both as a haven for English Catholics fleeing religious persecution and as a source of income for themselves and their descendants.
While the Taiwanese authorities do not collect or independently verify statistics on religious affiliation, they maintain registration statistics voluntarily reported by religious organizations.
Judgment On the accountability, the Court held, by sixteen votes to one, referring to its Loizidou v.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
Registration for religious groups is not required, but provides access to property purchase and tax exemptions; registration can take up to two years.
The next Sunday, as reported by the Venetian ambassador, guards were placed in front of the French, Venetian and Spanish embassies, and Catholics were arrested as they left the premises; afterwards the Spanish ambassador, Don Carlos Coloma, unsuccessfully tried to obtain their release.
Missionaries disseminating dogma inconsistent with the traditional customs of local Muslims are subject to expulsion.
25781/94) is a case raised by Cyprus against Turkey in 1994 and decided on merits by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in 2001.
In August 2019, after the church had been destroyed, persecution of citizens continued with eight people in charge of the church and 13 churchgoers arrested.
The word Venta comes from the vendor stalls along the side of the road, as the area lies on the road from Pachuca to Mexico City and Actopan.
The State Service on Religious Issues failed to implement the decision in the stipulated 30 days and subsequently asked the Court for a 2-week extension to register the church.
The committee was composed of following members in 2020: Ingvill Thorson Plesner (researcher at HL-senteret), Erling Rimehaug (editor and writer), Anne Beathe Kristiansen Tvinnereim (politician]), and Ingunn Yri Øystese (board member of the Stefanus Alliance International).
The Chamber argued that the "negative" freedom of religion was not limited to the absence of religious services or religious education: it extended to practices and symbols expressing, in particular or in general, a belief, a religion or atheism.
On 17 December 2004, the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) ruled that Nalliah, Scot and the Christian group Catch the Fire Ministries had vilified Muslims at the seminar, and in a newsletter and website article authored by the group.
After Dunama Dabbalemi of the Sayfawa dynasty converted to Islam, he waged Jihad, or holy war, against the proponents of the Kanuri religion, seeking to destroy its presence.
"Hundreds of hisba cases have been registered against writers and activists, often using blasphemy or apostasy as a pretext".
It is said that the community was founded between the end of the 19th century and 1920, by María Trinidad, a widow of one of the Téllez brothers.
A compulsory curriculum requires the study of Christianity for Christian students and Islam for Muslim students in grades one through six.
44), which substituted belief in the Christians' Scriptures for belief in the Thirty-Nine Articles of the Anglican churches, but some penalties on holding property remained.
By the same token, they believe that the First Amendment excludes only the direct establishment of, or preferential treatment for, a particular religion.
In 2012, a group of 50 young Muslim teenagers attacked a Christian residential complex in Bethphage, throwing rocks, smashing cars and windows and injuring several residents.
Themes Milton believed that an individual's conscience was more important than any external factors or forces.
As part of Stalin's efforts to unite the Soviet citizenry against the Nazi threat during World War II, state-sponsored persecution of religion was somewhat eased, and the GOC's independence from the Russian church was once again formally recognized in 1943.
Arrests On the night of 21–22 June 1950, hundreds of searches were conducted in the homes of Jehovah's Witnesses across Poland, accompanied by the first mass arrests.
On Zanzibar, the President of Zanzibar appoints the mufti, who serves as a leader of the Muslim community and as a public servant assisting with local governmental affairs.
1649." Development Soon after the First English Civil War, the Agreement was the subject of the Putney Debates in 1647.
Background The edict took place during the process referred to as the Eastern Question in relations between European powers, Britain in particular, and the Ottoman Empire.
(UN Human Rights Committee, General comment 22, 30 July 1993) Relationship between religious organizations and the state Legal status of religious organizations There is neither an official religion nor state atheism in the Republic of Korea.
The Employment Tribunal held that she had been directly and indirectly discriminated against, as well as harassed.
The Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001 is an act of the Parliament of Victoria, Australia, that makes behaviour that incites or encourages hatred, serious contempt, revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group of people, because of their race or religion, unlawful in Victoria.
The Government defended the current law as being a national security measure and rejected a petition from the group for lacking a sufficient number of signatures.
The efforts of some Protestant congregations to establish churches independent of the Lao Evangelical Church (LEC) continued to cause strains within the Protestant community.
The Court maintained that the national motto has no purpose in a coercive power to aid religion - neither on the face of the legislation nor in its operative effect (its practical impact on society).
A Treatise of Civil Power was published by the English poet and polemicist John Milton in February 1659.
Italian Government reaction On 28 January 2010, the Italian government lodged an appeal to the Grand Chamber of the Court.
A 1998 opinion poll indicated that 48 percent of Greek Cypriots regularly attended church services, while 49 percent attended only for major religious holidays and ceremonies such as weddings and funerals.
However, members of other religious groups were allowed to commemorate their religious holidays without government interference.
Legally, members of one religious group mutually may agree to submit a personal status dispute to a different denomination to adjudicate, but in practice this did not occur.
Uruguay has no official religion, as Church and State were officially separated with the Constitution of 1918.
Thus the English Jews, by an act of omission, as it were, became subjects, under no more disabilities than those inherent in their own unwillingness, like Catholics and Nonconformists, to belong to the Church of England or, in their particular case, to swear Christian oaths.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice.
Further, it continued the existing social and political disabilities for dissenters, including their exclusion from holding political offices and also from the universities.
Legal and policy framework The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government declares that it generally respect this right.
In this text, written shortly after the Treatise on Heretics, Castellio portrayed himself as an opponent of John Calvin and attacked the persecutions aimed at individuals perceived as heretics.
Stefanus Alliance International (SAI) is a Norwegian mission and human rights organization, dedicated to defending freedom of belief and religion as expressed in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
This exodus deprived France of many of its most skilled and industrious individuals, some of whom thereafter aided France's rivals in the Netherlands and in England.
The Caucus plays a critical role in raising the profile of numerous religious freedom issues in Congress and with both the Bush and Obama Administrations, and led to the release of many individuals imprisoned for their faith and ensures relief for many suffering under religious persecution.
Soul competency is a Christian theological perspective on the accountability of each person before God.
The most notable example restriction was in Metz, whose Parlement's actions explicitly excluded certain rights for Jews within its domain, such as drafting of lists of grievances, unlike in the rest of France.
The law ensured that citizens could use their tax dollars to support the church of their choice, not just the one officially sponsored by their community.
Societal abuses and discrimination There were limited reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Societal attitudes NGOs and unregistered religious groups report that they have had difficulties altering negative public attitudes towards smaller, unregistered religious organizations, because of the social stigma associated with not having the same legal benefits accorded to registered religions.
The textbook the MET wrote on the minority religions was called Talimat-e Maxhadi Vizheh-ye Aqaliathaye Mazhabi - (Kalimi, Zarthoshti, Masihi); Religious Studies Specifically for Religious Minorities: (Jews, Zoroastrians, Christians.) The course was taught by Muslim teachers at least 3 hrs/wk.
On 4 June 1992 she was dismissed after 22 months of employment, and paid one month's pay in lieu of notice.
In recent years this court determined that it is illegal to block the access of any group to its religious services and that criticism of religious belief is a protected free speech right.
Undersecretary Mustafa Lakadamyalı claimed that the move was to prevent the "abuse" of the permission to hold masses, also citing difficulties with the policing of more than one mass a day or frequent masses.
Subsequently, the university authorities refused, on the same grounds, to allow her to enrol her in a course, or to admit her to various lectures and a written examination.
Many of Maryland's first settlers were Catholic, including at least two Catholic priests, one of whom became the earliest chronicler of the colony's history.
History Established in 2006 by bipartisan co-founders Trent Franks, a Republican from Arizona, and Emanuel Cleaver, II, a Democrat from Missouri, the Caucus has worked to ensure that religoious freedom remains a high priority in United States foreign policy, development, and refugee law.
The Constitution of Burundi provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
Kazakh authorities accused the group of encouraging terrorism, however an independent analysis by Adil Soz showed that messages on the server did not incite hatred or violence based on religion, nor the superiority of any religion.
The Government refused on the grounds that "there was no sign of any crime in their actions." Despite the BOC's favored status, the Government also warned about the "excessive influence" of the BOC.
Religious discrimination The 2007 study found incidents of societal abuse and discrimination based on religious belief primarily between Christians and Muslims.
Tanzimat was an Ottoman reform process that sought equal protection under the law in Ottoman lands for all people; however, it did not address matters of religious freedom.
The relevance of this reply is a subject of heated debate, with scholars such as Robert Boston emphasizing its importance, and others such as Mark David Hall arguing that the letter was a historical outlier.
More commonly, seminarians were sent abroad for training, although such stop-gap measures did not nearly make up for the losses imposed by the May Laws.
Practitioners of the Bwiti religion have faced persecution by Christian missionaries and French colonial authorities, as well as some members of the present Gabon government.
Those then whose joy is in things spiritual will even here have some foretaste of that reward; but it will be made perfect in every part when this mortal shall have put on immortality.
The Cyprus Humanist Association accused the Ministry of Education of discriminations against atheists.
The merit will be doubled by the other lesson that Religion flourishes in greater purity, without than with the aid of Govt.
The magistrate's business is to defend the doctor as he defends the peasant, the artisan, the physician, anyone else, against injustices.
Various other reforms were proposed along liberal lines, such as a single age of consent, abolition of blasphemy laws, and equal rights in law for homosexuals.
References External links The amazing life of the Ottoman Bosnian Ahdname Works related to Ahdname of Milodraž at Wikisource
On 7 May 1992 she was told that her contract of employment was to be amended to include Sunday as a normal working day, on a rota basis, with no enhanced rate of pay.
Other members of the society included Rafael Karsten, Rolf Lagerborg, Gunnar Landtman, Knut Tallqvist, Wilhelm Bolin, Yrjö Hirn, Hjalmar Magnus Eklund, Harry Federley, Alma Söderhjelm, Gunnar Castrén, K.
The congregation comprises people who are descended from B'nei Anusim, also known as Conversos, Jews who were either forcibly converted to Christianity during the Spanish Inquisition and later returned to Judaism.
There were also unconfirmed reports that followers of Ismaili Islamic teachings were occasionally harassed and forbidden entry to mosques affiliated with Salafi followers.
The Government enforced these immigration laws; if foreign workers were found to proselytize, they were expelled from the country.
History Due to the United Kingdom having been formed by the union of previously independent states from 1707, most of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures.
The five who remain imprisoned are: Beket Mynbasov, Samat Adilov, Nazim Abdrakhmanov, Ernar Samatov and Bolatbek Nurgaliyev.
Monarchy The Act of Settlement 1701 decrees that the monarch of Great Britain (later the United Kingdom) "shall join in communion with the Church of England".
Childhood Louisa Jane Nottidge was born at her grandmother's house, Fulling Mill House, Bocking, Essex in 1802.
Germany The German constitution guarantees freedom of religion, but there is not a complete separation of church and state in Germany.
Authorities also harassed and fined members of certain religious groups, especially those that the authorities appeared to regard as bearers of foreign cultural influence or as having a political agenda.
Destruction of Buddha statues In March 2001, the Taliban destroyed two giant pre-Islamic Buddha statues carved into cliffs in Bamiyan province, on the grounds that statues were idolatrous.
The Bill proposed abolishing the British monarchy, with the United Kingdom becoming a "democratic, federal and secular Commonwealth of Britain", or in effect a republic with a codified constitution.
Accommodationism also is seen in the national anthem since 1931, in the Pledge of Allegiance since 1954, and in the official motto of the United States since 1956, In God We Trust, as well as in the judicial oath So help me God as early as 1789.
According to the view, one's family relationships, church membership, or ecclesiastical or religious authorities cannot affect the salvation of one's soul from damnation.
Ancient Roman policy The Romans tolerated most religions, including Judaism, and encouraged local subjects to continue worshipping their own gods.
The US Department of State report in 2002 stated that religious freedom was protected by law in Northern Cyprus and the government generally respected the freedom of religion.
It concerns the situation existing in Northern Cyprus after 1974 Turkish invasion of Cyprus and the de facto separation of the Mediterranean island.
Background A Treatise of Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes was published in February 1659 after Richard Cromwell established a new Parliament.
But as I endeavored to keep my mind in a state of humble quietude, I was favored to see through such groundless arguments; there being nothing on the subject of war, or favorable to it, to be found in that text.
See also History of the Jews in Mexico List of synagogues in Mexico References Bibliography Azen Krause, Corinne; Katz de Gugenheim, Ariela (January 1, 1987).
The time's outliers were kept behind the scenes at the workplace and in educational settings to avoid misrepresenting the kingdom.
Separation of church and state Jesus responds to Pontius Pilate about the nature of his kingdom: "My kingdom is not of this world.
It was largely a result of pressure from the British government to stop the persecution of Christians.
The arrest of the six follow the detention of another Baháʼí leader in March, who was originally taken to answer questions relating to the burial of a Baháʼí in the Baháʼí cemetery in Mashad.
A report in 2021 noted that despite some changes in government and society, the small communities of religious minorities (including Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Ahmadi Muslims and Baháʼís) remained endangered, without the ability to observe their faith publicly for fear of violent reprisal.
It was not known when Etienne Mangin first became interested in the Reform Movement, but Mangin family history attributes property at Meaux to Etienne and it is apparent that he had a house in the market place with a long garden abutting on to the ramparts.
A student contacted the Center for Inquiry in Amherst, New York, to present the idea, which CFI then supported.
The Taliban destroyed the statues despite appeals from the United Nations, international NGOs, and the world community, including many Muslim countries, to preserve the two-thousand-year-old statues.
According to the historian Richard Herr, one result of the confiscations was that the demographics of the two regions diverged dramatically based on the size of the lots put up for auction, and the structure of land ownership changed.
The author also targets the theoretical foundations that his opponent establishes to justify the execution of heretics.
In 2022, the Ecumenical Patriarchate in Istanbul continued its efforts to reopen the Halki seminary on the island of Heybeli in the Sea of Marmara.
To the extent that the Romans respected Judaism, it was because of the religion's great antiquity, ancestral tradition being regarded as a source of social and political stability.
McClintock raised objections to sitting on cases where he might have to place children in foster homes with same-sex couples.
However, it appears the Government's actions against the group were probably politically, not religiously, motivated.
Chandrachud, accepted a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991.
Activities Stefanus Alliance International provides support, care, and practical help for churches and individuals who are persecuted or oppressed because of their religious beliefs.
The decision was harshly criticized by Turkish Cypriot group Famagusta Initiative as "chauvinist and intolerant" and it was pointed out that no problem was encountered in the masses which took place in, for example, the Nestorian Church in Famagusta.
Accommodationism stands in tension with the judicial interpretation of separation of church and state, and the constitutionality of various government practices with respect to religion is a topic of active debate.
The Falk Laws, also called May Laws (German: Maigesetze), of 1873–1875 were legislative bills enacted in the German Kingdom of Prussia during the Kulturkampf conflict with the Catholic Church.
India Religious tolerance in India: A legacy of the past and a promise for the future Ancient Jews fleeing from persecution in their homeland 2,500 years ago settled in modern-day India and never faced antisemitism.
Tract Although Milton knew that the word "heresy" was used as a pejorative, Milton believed that the term was properly defined as "only the choice or following of any opinion good or bad in religion or any other learning".
In the past, the Caucus has held several public hearings on the religious freedom situation in countries such as Bahrain, Bangladesh, Burma, China, Egypt, India, Iran, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, North Korea, Nigeria, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Turkey, and Vietnam.
Adventist William Miller, and those that disagreed with him, though unaware of the Edict and the diplomacy around it, still looked to the fortunes of the Ottoman Empire even in the period.
From the 13th through the 18th centuries, Georgia was invaded numerous times by Mongols, Ottomans (Turks), and Safavids (Persians), and the Kingdom of Georgia became fragmented by the end of the 15th century.
Blasphemy Day, also known as International Blasphemy Day or International Blasphemy Rights Day, educates individuals and groups about blasphemy laws and defends freedom of expression, especially the open criticism of religion which is criminalized in many countries.
The first Anglican church in the country was erected in 1844 by British traders, and is considered a historical landmark.
Tony Benn argued that due to Charter 88 having to maintain a coalition of judges, lawyers, as well as politicians from the Liberal Party, Social Democratic Party and some establishment figures in the Labour Party, that Charter 88 could not properly advocate for economic and social rights.
Chrysostom: At the same time He signifies His equality in honour with His Father, as if He had said, As they suffered for my Father, so shall ye suffer for me.
Sociologists and representatives of the Jewish community have stated that they believe anti-Semitic statements to be on the rise as of 2019, citing increases in anti-Semitic vandalism as well as the increasing popularity of the L'SNS.
Unsuspecting and uneducated young people easily fall for the temptations of seductive allurements of vice, as writers and publishers and movies continue to stir up vicious and violent appetites solely for the sake of gain.
The monarch also has the right to attend the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, but usually sends a High Commissioner in his or her place.
He was released in 2016, after which he published a video on YouTube claiming he had reverted to Islam, and asked to be left alone.
Part II extended all post-1855 legislation on Dissenting congregations also to cover Roman Catholic and Jewish worship.
This initially led to the Sonderbund War, which resulted in the first Swiss Federal Constitution of 1848.
Their activities are distinctly anti-social and anti-democratic, as they oppose membership in any professional or social organizations.
Later, President Benito Juárez enacted a set of laws that came to be known as the Leyes de Reforma (or Reform laws) between 1859 and 1863 in the backdrop of the Reform War.
Several versions of the Agreement were published, each adapted to address not only broad concerns but also specific issues during the fast changing revolutionary political environment of those years.
Events worldwide on the first annual Blasphemy Day in 2009 included an art exhibit in Washington, D.C., and a free speech festival in Los Angeles.
The draft law was revised in 2004, and it appeared that many of the restrictive articles have been deleted.
Peyote, a hallucinogenic plant used in some Native American religious ceremonies, is illegal in the US, and access to other items used for ceremonies, such as eagle feathers, is restricted.
The Archives Nationales in Paris preserves only the text of a shorter document modified by concessions extracted from the King by the clergy and the Parlement of Paris, which delayed ten months before finally signing and setting seals to the document in 1599.
It is an anthology gathering opinions from Christian authors opposed to the death penalty or judicial prosecutions for heresy.
The Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 seeks to maintain and protect the religious character of places of worship in India.
He supported the principles of limited government, constitutionalism, and separation of church and state, while opposing both royal absolutism and religious toleration.
1.8% of Colombians adhere to Jehovah's Witnesses and Adventism and less than 1% adhere to other religions, such as Islam, Judaism, Buddhism, Mormonism, Hinduism, Indigenous religions, Hare Krishna movement, Rastafari movement, Eastern Orthodox Church, and spiritual studies.
Then, when the experience quiets down, the mind draws a bead on it and extracts concepts, notions, dogmas, so that religious experience can make sense to the mind.
Sources International Religious Freedom 2008 References External links Religious Freedom and the Middle East at The Washington Institute for Near East Policy PolicyWatch
Contemporary Egyptian jurisprudence prohibits apostasy from Islam, but has also remained silent about the death penalty.
The remainder is made up of Alevis, Protestants, Greek Orthodox, Maronite Catholics, Russian Orthodox, Anglican, Baha’is, Jews, and Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Davies and Allison also agree that the verse "looks like it has been pieced together from other Beatitudes." Gundry feels the word translated as persecuted should perhaps best be read as hounded.
The accounts in Matthew 22:15–22 and Mark 12:13–17 say that the questioners were Pharisees and Herodians, while Luke 20:20–26 says only that they were "spies" sent by "teachers of the law and the chief priests".
Citizens living in the West Bank found to be guilty of 'defaming religion' under the old Jordanian law, run the risk of years of imprisonment, up to for life.
Adherence to Buddhism generally is considered intrinsic to the country's ethnic and cultural identity.
Nonconformists were allowed their own places of worship and their own schoolteachers, so long as they accepted certain oaths of allegiance.
Bingham states that Section 2 of the Human Rights Act 1998 should be interpreted as stating that British courts "should, in the absence of some special circumstances, follow any clear and constant jurisprudence of the Strasbourg court".
The official justification for registration is to ensure that religious groups act in accordance with the law; however, some religious groups alleged that the practical purpose is to ensure that they do not become overtly political.
The Universal Code of Conduct on Holy Sites is an open standard for religious heritage and sacred natural sites safeguard developed by the Search for Common Ground and the Oslo Center for Peace and Human Rights.
There were reports that both the Ministry of Culture and the Political Security Office (PSO) monitored and sometimes removed books that espoused Zaydi-Shi'a Islamic doctrine from store shelves after publication.
In the meantime, in Germany Philip Melanchthon drafted the Augsburg Confession as a common confession for the Lutherans and the free territories.
Africa Asia Europe North America Oceania South America See also Apostasy in Islam by country Freedom of religion Separation of church and state Toleration State religion Category:Freedom of religion by country References External links "International Religious Freedom Report 2011".
On 8 September 1546, Etienne's reformist activities, being branded heretical by the Catholic Church, caused his downfall.
European Court of Human Rights Lautsi then appealed to the European Court of Human Rights on 27 July 2006.
Government officials have discussed plans to make religious education compulsory, but as of the end of 2017 these were not implemented.
They had in 2015 enacted and made a video of a fake beheading, in order to protest against the building of a mosque in Bendigo.
After she had travelled to Somerset, her mother Emily feared the spiritual and financial influence that Prince had established over her daughters.
Since the end of the Ujamaa period, there has been increased contention between Muslims and the government, and to a lesser extent between Muslims and Christians.
For indeed he would not be blessed who was to be crowned with those things which depart with this life.
When they had just finished celebrating the last supper, a descent was made on the congregation and sixty people were arrested and sent to Paris to be tried by Parliament.
Julio Caro Baroja has drawn attention to the figure of the old, exclaustrated priest, who—unlike young men, many of whom joined the Carlists or the National Militia—lived "enduring their misery, emaciated, teaching Latin in the schools, or doing other underpaid odd jobs".
The Ministry of Awqaf and Islamic Affairs is officially responsible for overseeing religious groups.
A "church tax" is collected by the government and is paid out to churches and religious groups according to the number of members.
This work ended up playing a role in inspiring the American Revolution with its strong stance in favor of rebellion against unjust monarchs if they are tyrannical.
Tuvalu The constitution of Tuvalu establishes the freedom of religion, although it allows this freedom to be limited by other laws.
See also Edict of toleration French Wars of Religion Persecution of Huguenots under Louis XV Religions in France Temple of the Holy Spirit, Besançon References Baird, Henry Martyn.
Although reliable statistics on the followers of various religious groups are not available, sources estimate the Christian population to be 67 percent, with Roman Catholics representing the largest group at 62 percent.
Benn wrote an article, summarising the book's contents, published in Keith Sutherland's book The Rape of the Constitution?
Additionally, similar practices (such as having citizens identify their religious preference to the government or on identification cards) can have different consequences depending on other sociopolitical circumstances specific to the countries in question.
The bill proposed establishing the United Kingdom as a secular state and thus disestablishing the Church of England, removing the British Crown as an element of government, but continuing government with democratically elected members from constituencies, each seat electing a male and a female.
In a unanimous chamber decision on 10 January 2017, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that states had a wide margin of discretion with regard to the balance between religious freedom and the state's wish to educate pupils according to their tradition and needs.
It is also advocated by many social conservatives of many political orientations, such as Christian democratic political parties.
Organizations which fail to register may be considered illegal and may be forbidden to operate within Azerbaijan.
On July 26, 2019, at around 3 o'clock in the morning, about 1,000 government officials and personnel from several county departments arrived to demolish the church.
Chrysostom: Wonder not if you do not hear ‘the kingdom’ mentioned under each beatitude; for in saying shall be comforted, shall find mercy, and the rest, in all these the kingdom of heaven is tacitly understood, so that you must not look for any of the things of sense.
For these then also is the kingdom preserved, for they are in the contempt of this world poor in spirit.
Influential criticisms of fundamentalism include James Barr's books on Christian fundamentalism and Bassam Tibi's analysis of Islamic fundamentalism.
In 1683, the Oxford University included it in what ended up being the last official book burning in England.
Şahin (born in Istanbul in 1973) came from a traditional family of practising Muslims and considered it her religious duty to wear the Islamic headscarf.
With the adoption of laws granting freedom of religion, these embassy chapels have often become regularized churches and parishes, such as that of the Dutch embassy chapel to the Ottoman Empire, now The Union Church of Istanbul.
Hill notes that the Essenes called each other prophets, and that Jesus might have here adopted that usage.
Their arrest was determined to be in violation of international law by the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention.
Any funds inherited by the organization became the private property of the O'Hair family, never accounted for within the organization.
These associations and various religious groups occasionally sponsor symposiums to promote mutual understanding.
The article was removed from the Constitution during the 1973 referendum, to be replaced by a dedicated law on animal welfare.
The discussion of the persecution of Christians, which did not begin until some time after Jesus' crucifixion, to most scholars is evidence that this is the period the Gospel of Matthew was written in.
All remaining staff at the Branch Office were arrested and held at the Voivodeship Office of Public Security in Łódź on Karol Anstadt Avenue.
The attack on absolutism, the defence of the rule of law and the emphasis on the importance of the covenant made Lex, Rex a precursor to the social contract idea, and helped pave the way for the political theory of John Locke.
The No Religious Test Clause of Article VI of the Constitution expressly stated that "no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States".
Haitiwaji recounts being subjected to relentless brainwashing, denial of religious and cultural identity, and suspected forced sterilization.
Turkey was a 2004 European Court of Human Rights case brought against Turkey by a medical student challenging a Turkish law which bans wearing the Islamic headscarf at universities and other educational and state institutions.
The current situation, described as a "principle of state neutrality" rather than "separation of church and state", has been criticised by both secularists and religious groups.
On July 24, 2013, and August 3, 2013, the doorway of the church was filled with tons of dirt, rocks, and rubble.
The constitution provides for limitations on rights and freedoms “to protect and maintain the tenets of Islam.” Propagation of any religion other than Islam is a criminal offense.
There was one Jewish member and one Christian member of the 40-member upper house of Parliament, the Shura Council, whose members were appointed in December 2006 by the King, following elections for the lower house.
Under the provisions of the Succession to the Crown Act 2013, marrying a Roman Catholic no longer disqualifies a person from succeeding to the Crown; however, the provision of the Act of Settlement requiring the monarch to be a Protestant continues unrepealed.
The law prohibits publications that the government deems could create hatred, spread dissension among the public, or incite persons to commit crimes.
Christian groups include Roman Catholics, Protestants (including Pentecostal Christian groups), Seventh-day Adventists, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and Jehovah's Witnesses.
Greek Catholics are generally ethnic Slovaks and Ruthenians, although some Ruthenians belong to the Orthodox Church.
Background The right to petition for redress of grievances was a principle included in the 1215 Magna Carta, as well as the 1689 English Bill of Rights.
It was revoked in 1654 by William Claiborne, a Virginian who had been appointed as a commissioner by Oliver Cromwell; he was an Anglican, a Puritan sympathizer, and strongly hostile to the Catholic Religion.
Religious peace of Kutná Hora (Czech: Kutnohorský náboženský mír) was concluded in March 1485 by the Czech lands Diet in Kutná Hora between Utraquist Hussites and Roman Catholics.
In 2003, an effort by the Roman Catholic Church to negotiate its own concordat with Georgia failed after the government yielded to pressure from the GOC leadership and public demonstrations said to have been organized by the GOC.
Between 1999 and 2001 local authorities closed approximately 20 of Vientiane Province's 60 LEC churches.
Calls for civil marriage are unanimously rejected by the religious authorities but civil marriages conducted in another country are recognized by Lebanese civil authorities, although in 2022, it was unclear if virtual online weddings were recognized.
Passed in the aftermath of the Glorious Revolution, it was authored by Daniel Finch, 2nd Earl of Nottingham, and received royal assent on 24 May 1689.
The Novum Testamentum Graece text is: χαίρετε καὶ ἀγαλλιᾶσθε, ὅτι ὁ μισθὸς ὑμῶν πολὺς ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς οὕτως γὰρ ἐδίωξαν τοὺς προφήτας τοὺς πρὸ ὑμῶν.
Attitude towards Jews and Judaism Rhetoric by Palestinian militant groups include expressions of anti-Semitism.
The constitution of Northern Cyprus protects the freedom of religion, and it states that Northern Cyprus is a secular state.
A 2021 report noted that the government recognizes and registers religious groups through a 2014 law governing the operational framework of religious groups, which states these organizations must register with the Ministry of Interior.
The police sometimes attempted to detain British people who attended Catholic services in the embassy chapels.
In the first then and the eighth, the kingdom of heaven is named, for the seven go to make the perfect man, the eighth manifests and proves his perfectness, that all may be conducted to perfection by these steps.
On June 22, 2019, the process of removing the church building began with the arrival of about 60 officials from the Religious Affairs Bureau.
The use of the word Rattagudlu (meaning an office) has been found in inscriptions from present day Andhra Pradesh dated prior to the 8th century indicating it was a South Indian word.
The ideologies set forth by this new "American School" of thought were then used to justify maintaining an enslaved population to sustain the increasing number of slave plantations in the American South during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
He graduated valedictorian both in Elementary and High School at NORSU, formerly NONAS in Bayawan, completed A.B.
His other major publications were American Antiquities and Discoveries of the West (1833) and Slavery, As It Relates to the Negro (1843), each of which was published in multiple editions.
In 1975, due to pressure from the local churches and religious groups in the area, Ripley's changed their names to World of the Unexplained and re-outfitted them with new attractions.
Eumelus, succeeded his father Admetus as the King of Pherae, and his mother was Alcestis, daughter of King Pelias of Iolcus.
This is the man who brought the news that the fleet of the hero in Sicily was on fire Eumelus, one of the Suitors of Penelope who came from Same along with other 22 wooers.
Interest in Iceland The country of Iceland was of particular interest to Nazi leadership due to their belief that the country was the Thule area which served as the birthplace of the Aryan race.
Tarshish (Tarshishah in Chronicles): Candidates include (Tartessos) in Spain and Tharros in Sardinia, both of which appear unlikely, and Tarsus in Cilicia, which appears more likely despite some linguistic difficulties.
His data was published in Pyramidographia (1646) which theorized a geometric cubit was used by the builders of the Great Pyramid (see: Egyptian royal cubit).
One of the collaborators of the de Naoillats; Jeanne Lépine-Authelain; corresponded with the esotericist Paul Le Cour who displayed an interest in the Hiéron's claims about Atlantis.
Locations The Haunted Adventure attractions are located within or near existing Ripley properties: Gatlinburg, Tennessee - opened in 1999 and located next to Ripley's 5D Moving Theater on Parkway (US-441S) and short drive from within Ripley Aquarium (c.
It vanished under the surface approximately 12,000 years ago due to rising ocean levels from melting ice caps after the last Glacial Maximum.
See also Inline speed skating Road skating References External links Buggy Rollin Official Website Jean-Yves Blondeau at YouTube
By the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, it was believed that Indo-Europeans (generally referred to as Aryans) were the highest branch of humanity due to their technological advancement.
In 2016 he rediscovered the wreck of the Schiedam, a ship involved in the evacuation of English Tangier in 1684 and associated with Samuel Pepys, and in 2018 the site of the President, an English East Indiaman.
The Epsilon Team (Greek: Ομάδα Έψιλον, romanized: Omada Epsilon) is an alleged secret society that appears in modern Greek folklore, conspiracy theories and ufology.
The Sharon plain also attracted Arab migration during the Mandatory period, driven by Jewish settlement and government development initiatives that eradicated malaria, enhanced healthcare services, extended life expectancy, and generated job opportunities in the area.
Its foundation was a response to the declaration by UNESCO, which dismissed the validity of race as a biological concept, and to attempts to end racial segregation in the American South.
The rock is promoted as an attraction as part of a "Trail of the Vikings" featuring supposed evidence of Norse exploration of Minnesota.
Scythia and the Lower Danube Prior to their entanglements with Rome, Jordanes (V 38) describes the Goths as having moved around between different parts of Scythia and Dacia, all north of the Danube and Black Sea.
1427, July 1932 Home media A 2-DVD release featuring 24 of these theatrical shorts is available in the United States beginning March 16, 2010, from Warner Home Video, through their Warner Archive manufacture-on-demand program.
This pride was expressed as early as the medieval chronicles, where chroniclers wrote about the Goths as the ancestors of the Scandinavians, and the idea was used by Nicolaus Ragvaldi at the Council of Basel to argue that the Swedish monarchy was the foremost in Europe.
Following Russell's death in 1916, a seventh volume—entitled The Finished Mystery—was published in 1917 and advertised as his "posthumous work".
By Lysidice, daughter of Hippodamia and Pelops, he sired Hippothoe, who mothered Taphius by the god Poseidon.
In the following years, Corbu set up a pasta factory which he named les pâtes Claire after his eldest child, his daughter Claire, situated at route d'Elne, Perpignan.
Two of those accounts mention an inscription above the entrance to Great Zimbabwe, written in characters not known to the Arab merchants who had seen it.
It is further claimed there is proof that in the locality where Dantidurga lived Kannada was the spoken language.
Renaissance tradition says the pillars bore the warning Ne plus ultra (also Non plus ultra, "nothing further beyond"), serving as a warning to sailors and navigators to go no further.
Origins The name is derived from the Gothicists' belief that the Goths had originated from Sweden, based on Jordanes' account of a Gothic urheimat in Scandinavia (Scandza).
These inhabited from Cophen, an Indian river, and in part of Asia adjoining to it." Aram: "Aramites, which the Greeks called Syrians".
An advertisement for the book in Zion's Watch Tower called it "the true interpretation", and it was promoted as being "of the Lord—prepared under his guidance." Immediate controversy surrounded both its publication and content.
It was soon established that it was largely written and compiled by two of Russell's associates, Clayton J.
An idea of the Italian humanist Luigi Marliano, it bears the motto Plus Ultra, Latin for "further beyond", implying the pillars were a gateway to more.
Each of these symbols were identified in the Secret Files of Henri Lobineau (doc 6) titled "The Hieron of Val d'Or" dated February 5 or 6 and June 24.
In 1911, Scotford's stepdaughter signed an affidavit in which she stated that she had seen him making the objects and when she denied their validity he threatened her life.
Development The German eugenicist Alfred Ploetz introduced the term "racial hygiene" (Rassenhygiene) in 1895 in his Racial Hygiene Basics (Grundlinien einer Rassenhygiene).
After visiting earthworks in Ohio and New York, Priest concluded that these mounds could be traced back to a lost race that had inhabited America even before the Native Americans.
Wilson develops this idea of civilizations founded on Lunar Knowledge together with astronomy to explain the monumental and seemingly spontaneous achievements of ancient cultures such as the Pyramid Complex at Giza in Egypt.
It is common in New Age magazines to see advertisements for open metal-poled pyramids large enough to meditate under.
Valencia notes that many of the supportive comments for the book come from Pioneer grantees like Rushton himself, and that a 100,000 copy print-run of the third edition was financed by Pioneer.
For years, the creator of these remains was unknown, though it was then determined, through a meticulous inspection of his finds and collections, that Charles Dawson himself was most likely responsible for this forgery.
Quite separately, certain artists from the 15th century onward made measurements of heads and skulls with a view to attaining greater accuracy in their representation of those parts of the human frame.
The theory also hypothesizes that a single factor, the "K factor", affects multiple population statistics Rushton referred to as "life-history traits".
These narratives tend to portray a period of submission to the new rulers before which the islanders grew hostile, refusing to herd flocks and till fields as commanded.
Some of the experiments were used for general medical research, for example by injecting prisoners with known diseases to test vaccines or possible cures.
They later travelled to Ireland, where one of the surviving Judahite princesses, Tea Tephi, married a local High King of Ireland.
His interest in archaeology developed and he had an uncanny knack for making spectacular discoveries, leading The Sussex Daily News to name him the "Wizard of Sussex".
Furthermore, Georges Vacher de Lapouge's racial classification ("Teutonic", "Alpine" and "Mediterranean") was re-used by William Z.
As soon as Nancy arrives, she is knocked out by someone wearing a skeleton costume, and she soon discovers that Bruno was the proud owner of the "Whisperer", a crystal skull rumored to protect its holder from almost any cause of death except murder.
But starting from about the 1930s, paleoanthropologists turned to the view that human beings first evolved in the next era, the Pleistocene (2.6 million to 11,700 years ago).
This premise, however, has been heavily contested and met with scepticism by a number of eminent historians such as Carlo Troya who is esteemed as a leading figure on Italian history during the early middle ages.
Advocates state that the historic coastlines of western Europe and eastern North America during the Last Glacial Maximum are now under water and thus, evidence of Solutrean-era seafaring may have been obliterated or submerged.
The other HDF leaders are Matthew Frost, a British former teacher and founder of the Aporia Magazine, and Erik Ahrens, a German white nationalist and social media advisor for the far-right party Alternative für Deutschland (AfD).
Following the Maccabean Revolt, the consequent Hasmonean conquests in Palestine prompted Jewish settlement outside of Judea in Galilee, Samaria, and Idumaea, establishing a preponderance of Jewish elements throughout Palestine by the 1st century BC, where pagans and Samaritans also lived.
After six to eight months (corresponding possibly to the embryonic period) the Fanany (so the Betsileo believe) then appears in daylight in the form of a lizard.
The print was cited by creationists and pseudoscience advocates as an out-of-place artifact, but was debunked by palaeontologists as the result of a natural geologic process known as spall formation.
And he brings forward various objections to their analysis of eoliths, stone artifacts sometimes regarded as tools.
In order to eliminate "defective" citizens and rid the country of the intellectually disabled or those who were born with genetic deficiencies, as well as those who were deemed racially inferior, the T-4 Euthanasia Program was administered by Karl Brandt, one of Hitler's personal physicians.
The study theme was: "systems that underline the sensations caused by the displacement of the human center of gravity in relation to support points in order to move into space".
He intimated that in such cases the fittest are not the physically strongest, nor the cunningest, but those who learn to combine so as mutually to support each other, strong and weak alike, for the welfare of the community.
Among these supposed properties are the ability to preserve foods, sharpen or maintain the sharpness of razor blades, improve health, function "as a thought-form incubator", trigger sexual urges, and cause other effects.
Rosenberg's theory, Weltanschauungswissenschaften, was implicit in the idea that Germany had the right to takeover other nations - or even exterminate them - since German culture was "superior" to the culture of other groups.
Adventure Gaming Magazine thought it was a bit of a letdown to its predecessors in the series, which featured "cleverly themed puzzles, captivating soundtracks, and fun characters".
Hidden camera footage revealed Matthew Frost in 2023 claiming that "they've managed to get access to the UK Biobank," and to know more "talk to Emil".
Seven members of the group were charged with abuse of a corpse as well as child abuse due to the presence of two children in the property.
Also, standing on the platform of the largest pyramid on the day of the Summer solstice it is possible to experience a double sunset, as first the sun sets behind a mountain top, then it emerges again from behind the mountain and sets a second time behind a neighbouring peak.
Because the limited evidence giving provenance to Khafre is ambiguous, the idea of who built the Sphinx, and when, continues to be the subject of debate.
Hermann Helmuth, a professor of anthropology at Trent University, said, "It is in a way personal and political propaganda.
Daughter and colleague of Marcel Griaule, Geneviève Calame-Griaule, defended the project, dismissing Van Beek's criticism as misguided speculation rooted in an apparent ignorance of esoteric tradition.
The rocks of this group are also criss-crossed by numerous sets of parallel, vertically oriented joints in the rock.
The theory later become popularized and among other practitioners and researchers in pseudo-scientific fields, such as Michael Lawrence Morton, Richard C.
The Michigan Relics are considered to be one of the most elaborate and extensive pseudoarchaeological hoaxes ever perpetrated in American history.
He claimed to have found it with his daughter Anna at the Maya ruin of Lubaantun while on an expedition to British Honduras (present-day Belize) in the 1920s.
Vimanika Shastra An incomplete version, containing the first six chapters, archived by Sacred Texts web site The Vimanika Shastra Archived 19 January 2012 at the Wayback Machine An incomplete version, containing the first six chapters, archived by scribd.com Rao, M.
Hancock also argues that meditation and psychoactive plants enabled ancient builders to move large stones, asserting that granite blocks at the Great Pyramid of Giza were raised by "priests chanting", a scenario he links to acoustic levitation.
It was published during the same time period as other texts considered foundational in Anthropology, such as Ancient Society, Primitive Culture, and Éléments d'anthropologie générale.
His conclusions have been called into question: According to some, multiplying the individual name probabilities is wrong because many permutations of the same names are possible.
Prevention and remedy In addition to identifying drapetomania, his feeling was that with "proper medical advice, strictly followed, this troublesome practice that many Negroes have of running away can be almost entirely prevented".
Lennart Möller (24 September 1954 – 19 November 2021) was a professor of environmental medicine at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden.
Sheila Ostrander and Lynn Schroeder, authors of the paranormal, visited Czechoslovakia in 1968, where they happened upon a cardboard pyramid manufactured commercially by Drbal.
The legend did remain current in the folklore of Schwyz and Hasli in the 19th century, no doubt reinforced by historiographical and literary tradition.
The World of the Unexplained were two museums, opened in 1972 by Ripley's Believe It or Not!, one at Fisherman's Wharf in San Francisco (37°48′29″N 122°24′55″W) and one in Gatlinburg, Tennessee, originally called the Museum of Witchcraft and Magic.
Some factors taken into consideration while deciphering an object, structure or megalithic monument can include the features such as faces, stairs, sides, and terraces.
Controversies continued when identical measurements were found between Sotheby's skull and Mitchell-Hedges' skull, leaving the authenticity of this artifact questionable at best.
Strabo had believed that Zalmoxis was a slave of Pythagoras, and mentioned Decaeneus as a Dacian disciple living in the much later time of the Dacian king Burebista.
In 1990 Heyerdahl, became aware of the "Canarian Pyramids" by reading an article written by Francisco Padrón in the Tenerife newspaper "Diario de Avisos" detailing "real pyramids on the Canaries".
The text of the document attributed to "Antoine L'Ermite" was modelled on Charroux's account found in his book, Trésors du Monde, where he extensively quoted Noël Corbu.
Beliefs Steiger described "Star People" in his 1976 book on contactees as "humans who come from a special gene pool linked to visits by extraterrestrials".
He stated that the malady was a consequence of masters who "made themselves too familiar with [slaves], treating them as equals".
The group also concluded that the "inscriptions" were just vertical grooves that had been worn into the less resistant parts of the stone.
It seems most likely that it is a piece of cast iron used as ballast in mining machinery, deposited during mining efforts before it was found apparently within the seam.
The date of composition of Genesis 1–11 cannot be fixed with any precision, although it seems likely that an early brief nucleus was later expanded with extra data.
In fact, as mentioned, it is at the Heimathaus Museum in Vöcklabruck, Austria, which is where the photo was taken.
They also point to the relative absence of loose blocks on the flat areas of the formation, which would be expected if they were formed solely by natural erosion and fracturing.
Pikirayi and Kaarsholm suggest that this presentation of Great Zimbabwe was partly intended to encourage settlement and investment in the area.
Only a few prominent peoples in history, such as Jews, Chinese people, Armenians, Greeks, Persians, and Scandinavians are considered non-Turkic by Adzhi.
He highlights Black intellectuals and civilizations as evidence of Black people's equality and contributions to human knowledge as a whole.
of Ashkenazi Levites found a high frequency of haplogroup R1a-M582 among them (64.9% of Ashkenazi Levites) pointing to a founding event and paternal ancestor common to half of them.
Bughao works for Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR) and Director Auxiliary of the 128th Squadron of Philippine Coast Guard Auxiliary [2018-2022].
He proposed that Chadic stems from Berber (some other authors group it with southern Afroasiatic languages such as Cushitic ones).
Eumelus married Iphthime, daughter of Icarius of Sparta, and possibly by her, became the father of Zeuxippus.
In response, a UK Biobank representative commented that they have "continued to monitor and prevent attempts to access the resource by Kirkegaard and other researchers believed to be connected with him".
Major proponents of the hypothesis include alternative Egyptologist John Anthony West, and geologist Robert Schoch.
Prof Archie Roy (an astronomer and psychic researcher) and Robert Lomas gave a joint talk about technological possibilities in Megalithic society at the 2000 Orkney International Science.
However, the souterrains have been dated to the late Iron Age, thousands of years after the supposed impact event.
"From Rousseau's Theory of Natural Equality to Firmin's Resistance to the Historical Inequality of Races".
Though the house and the group's bank accounts were in Lamboy's name, he was not charged in connection with the corpse.
In the much older Assyrian tradition itself, Ashur is the name of the chief deity in Mesopotamian religion and the name of the city state of Assur.
Such a composite image is discussed as a character called Fosana, whose legends are told as "a collage of loosely connected incidents from the Prophet's life and times".
In 1968, William Meister was searching for trilobite fossils in 500-million-year-old strata known as the Cambrian Wheeler Formation near Antelope Springs, Utah.
Their third son, Captain Guy Lutley Sclater, died on 26 November 1914, aged 45, in the accidental explosion that sank HMS Bulwark.
It contains one phrase on each side: Holy of Holies King of the Earth The Law of God The Word of God The second find came later in November 1860 when Wyrick and his excavation team came across a sandstone box that contained a small, black rock within it.
Pseudoarchaeological claims of artificial structures Kimura first estimated that the formation must be at least 10,000 years old, dating it to a period when it would have been above water, and therefore surmised that the site may be a remnant of the mythical lost continent of Mu.
Two other stones were also found at Newark shortly after Wyrick's death (they have since been lost).
This book introduced both the concept of pyramid power and the story about Antoine Bovis to the English-speaking world.
Welsing derived her hypothesis partly through a neo-Freudian analysis of cultural symbols rather than scientific evidence, arguing that the motivation for white supremacy is an unconscious response to white genetic and sexual inferiority.
After returning to England, he practised law for several years and attended meetings of the Zoological Society of London.
Paranormal researcher Benjamin Radford states that often "anything not immediately explainable or obvious is interpreted as a baffling mystery, often with paranormal connotations.
Humboldt and Kingsborough were in turn cited by Godfrey Higgins, whose Anacalypsis (1833) contributed to the emergence of perennial philosophy and claims that all religions had a common, ancient origin in a Golden Age of the distant past.
And thirdly that since the beech tree distribution was limited historically to the regions west of the Eurasian Steppe, this is where this language was spoken.
In some accounts, the wife of Ilus was called Eurydice, daughter of Adrastus or Batia, daughter of Teucer.
Nott and George Gliddon in their monumental tribute to Morton's work, Types of Mankind (1854), carried Morton's ideas further and backed up his findings which supported the notion of polygenism.
Ngaa traditions In some accounts, the invaders arrive in a large sailing vessel that landed on the mainland opposite the islands western shore.
The museums displayed not only witchcraft attractions but new ones that featured Bigfoot, flying saucers, the Bermuda Triangle, werewolves, and a fortune teller with a talking crystal ball.
He is also a promoter of pseudoarchaeology influenced by Zecharia Sitchin's ideas of ancient astronauts.
Agreeing with the philosopher Giorgio de Santillana's thesis developed in Hamlet's Mill (1969), Wilson places the genesis of mythology previous to fertility cultures, linking the fundamental myths to astronomical occurrences such as the Precession of the Equinoxes.
The prototypes have evolved into safer, more comfortable and easier machines that can be adapted to all different morphologies.
His books and pamphlets, which presented both standard and speculative history and archaeology sold in the thousands.
Atlantean and Lemurian races Leadbeater and Scott-Elliot provided much more detail than Blavatsky on the lives of the supposed Atlantean and Lemurian root races.
James Legge, whose still-admired translations of the Chinese Classics appeared at the same time as Lacouperie's, questioned Lacouperie's sinological competence.
In the absence of Maxine Dietrich, the organization is sustained by her advocates and has undergone significant changes.
Mankind Quarterly is a pseudoscientific journal that covers physical and cultural anthropology, including human evolution, intelligence, ethnography, linguistics, mythology, archaeology, and biology.
Peoples from all over the world have supposed themselves descended from various different eponymic or mythical progenitors.
A Hindi translation was published in 1959, while the Sanskrit text with an English translation was published in 1973.
He was a signatory to A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism, a 2001 public relations exercise by the Discovery Institute, a creationist group based in Seattle, Washington.
Dated finds such as Chinese, Persian and Syrian artefacts also support the 12th- and 15th-century dates.
A detailed review in the Bryn Mawr Classical Review comments on the discrepancies in Collina-Girard's dates and use of coincidences, concluding that he "has certainly succeeded in throwing some light upon some momentous developments in human prehistory in the area west of Gibraltar.
It must be understood as a military victory in terms of successfully imposing a new administrative system, language, and religion upon the indigenous groups.
Expanding upon Boulainvilliers' use of ethnography to defend the Ancien Régime against the Third Estate's claims, Gobineau divides the human species into three major groups: white, yellow and black, claiming that "history springs only from contact with the white races".
Cremo and Thompson fail to take account of this, he says, and seem to want to accord equal value to all finds.
They had no use for cattle but the idea of domesticated herds appealed to them, and they began domesticating reindeer, an animal they had long hunted.
As such, social Darwinism has been criticized for being an inconsistent philosophy, which does not lead to any clear political conclusions.
In The Social Organism (1860), Spencer compares society to a living organism and argues that, just as biological organisms evolve through natural selection, society evolves and increases in complexity through analogous processes.
In 1888 he was entrusted with a vast anthropological investigation to be the carried out on approximately 300,000 military classes of 1859 and 1863.
In Philadelphia he met Spencer Baird, John Cassin and Joseph Leidy at the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Erik Ahrens, an HDF leader, has defended the Waffen-SS and has stated that he wants to create a home for "white, Christian people", as he believes they are under threat from immigration.
Stoddard's thesis is that the white race has dominated world affairs for centuries and has created a civilization that is superior to all others.
In this overtly racist book, Priest seeks to use references from the Bible to prove that God created black people to be slaves.
Leucippe, a daughter of Thestor and possibly Polymele, and thus, sister of Theonoe, Calchas and Theoclymenus.
His other brothers were: Ampheres and Evaemon, Mneseus and Autochthon, Elasippus and Mestor, and lastly, Azaes and Diaprepes.
He concluded his work in 'Antropometria Militare', which consisted of two volumes, the first in 1896 and second in 1905.
Coat of arms The Pillars appear as supporters of the coat of arms of Spain, originating in the impresa of Spain's sixteenth-century Charles I, whose regnal name as Holy Roman Emperor was Charles V.
Lehner responded that these tombs were protected from erosion by sand and debris for most of their history, asking Schoch and West to clarify which mastabas they were referring to exactly.
In 2021, a remastered 4K version of the film was released by Paramount and Lucasfilm on Ultra HD Blu-ray, produced using scans of the original negatives.
A similar classification was the vertical cephalic index, the categories of which were "chamaecranic" (low-skulled), "orthocranic", (medium high-skulled), and "hypsicranic" (high-skulled).
The concept has since been debunked as pseudoscience and shown to be part of the edifice of scientific racism.
Neurologist Steven Novella of Yale University Medical School says that the cranium exhibits all of the characteristics of a child who has died as a result of congenital hydrocephalus, and the cranial deformations were the result of accumulations of cerebrospinal fluid within the skull.
Oberg comments that "there is no archaeological evidence that the specific references to the twin hidden companions of Sirius are anywhere near that old.
Petrie's published reports of this triangulation survey, and his analysis of the architecture of Giza therein, were exemplary in its methodology and accuracy, disproving Smyth's theories and still providing much of the basic data regarding the pyramid plateau to this day.
In other publications she proposes three successive "waves" of expansion: Wave 1, predating Kurgan I, expansion from the lower Volga to the Dnieper, leading to coexistence of Kurgan I and the Cucuteni–Trypillia culture.
John Taylor and the golden ratio In the mid-19th century, Friedrich Röber studied various Egyptian pyramids which he linked to the golden ratio.
It is also possible to conclude that such a star could in no way be responsible for the flurry of sightings from the 1920s, it would be too faint and too close to Sirius A to have ever been seen by visual observers.
By the 1920s, social Darwinism found expression in the promotion of eugenics by the Chinese sociologist Pan Guangdan.
Notes References Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S.
However, according to David Meltzer, "[f]ew if any archaeologists—or, for that matter, geneticists, linguists, or physical anthropologists—take seriously the idea of a Solutrean colonization of America." The evidence for the hypothesis is considered more consistent with other scenarios.
The Hiéron du Val d'Or (English: "Sanctuary of the Golden Valley") was a Catholic esoteric secret society in France, which existed from 1873 until 1926.
A small, better trained team of archaeologists, with more concrete backgrounds and training with archeology, was led by Rosenberg and part of his Amt Rosenberg organization, the Reichsbund für Deutsche Vorgeschichte.
Synopsis Stoddard claims that there is a perceived threat of non-white "races" to the global dominance of the white race, "typified by the Russo-Japanese War," which he represents as a struggle of color against white.
The origin of the Basques and the Basque language is a controversial topic that has given rise to numerous hypotheses.
Similarly, in 1893, Anatole Leroy-Beaulieu, a critic of antisemitism who drew on Renan, queried whether or not thousands of Polish and Russian Jews might have their origins traced back to the "old nomads of the steppes".
Wind erosion Schoch states that wind erosion forms distinctive horizontal bands, whereas the water erosion features are clearly vertical.
The documentary chronicles Cox' life, mentorship, and humanitarian trips to Ethiopia and the Philippines, as well as her efforts to pass the CRPD in the US Senate.
Priest provides three pieces of evidence for why the Bible justifies the enslavement of black people.
The beech argument (German: Buchenargument) is a now mostly outdated argument in Indo-European studies that is in favour of placing the Indo-European Urheimat in an area west of a line connecting Kaliningrad and the Black Sea, based on the current distribution of European beech trees.
Applewhite believed he was directly related to Jesus, meaning he was an "Evolutionary Kingdom Level Above Human".
Gatterer's 1771 Einleitung in die Synchronistische Universalhistorie ("Introduction to the Universal Synchronistic History") was the first publication to use these terms in an ethnic sense.
While Greave's measurements were objective, his metrological data was later misused by numerologists: J.
The majority of the population lived in houses made out of mud on wooden frame structures, however the number of these can only be estimated.
600), repeats all of Jerome's identifications, but with these minor changes: Joktan, son of Eber: Indians Saleph, son of Joktan: Bactrians Magog, son of Japheth: "Scythians and Goths" Ashkenaz, son of Gomer: "Sarmatians, whom the Greeks call Rheginians".
The International Fortean Organization used the 1982 discovery of what were believed to be Phoenician amphorae in Guanabara Bay by Robert F.
Heyerdahl maintained a belief in the hypothesis that the pyramids were connected with Guanches until his death.
Anthony's revised steppe theory (2007) David Anthony's The Horse, the Wheel and Language describes his "revised steppe theory".
Pyramidology (or pyramidism) refers to various religious or pseudoscientific speculations regarding pyramids, most often the Giza pyramid complex and the Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt.
The Protest Psychosis: How Schizophrenia Became a Black Disease Depression Dromomania Political abuse of psychiatry Fugitive slave Classification of mental disorders Sluggish schizophrenia Biology of depression Gaslighting References Sources Samuel A.
In addition to Japan he describes a "brown reaction", which he calls "the Mohammedan Revival", taking as exemplary Yahya Siddyk's work "The Awakening of the Islamic Peoples in the Fourteenth Century of the Hegira".
See also NCERT textbook controversies 2015 Indian Science Congress ancient aircraft controversy References Further reading Jha, D.
In Plato's Critias, Mestor was the second of the fourth set of twins borne of Poseidon and the mortal, Cleito, and one of the first princes of Atlantis.
Whittlesey concludes at the time that the stones were a hoax, and assumed that the Bible was Wyrick's source of inspiration for the inscription.
Rushton's book is focused on what he considers the three broadest racial groups, and does not address other populations such as Southeast Asians and Australian Aborigines.
Applewhite was the third to last member to die; two people remained after him, and were the only ones found with bags over their heads and not having purple cloths covering their top halves.
Ellappa, a draughtsman at a local engineering college in Bangalore, under the direction of Shastry, which had been missed in the 1959 edition.
Scott-Elliot located Lemuria in the Pacific Ocean, claiming that it was a gigantic landmass that eventually sank, leaving only small islands.
That idea was picked up in the 1920s by Manly Palmer Hall who went on to suggest that they were the focus of the ancient Egyptian wisdom schools.
In 1913, Petrie sold his large collection of Egyptian antiquities to University College, London, where it is now housed in the Petrie Museum of Egyptian Archaeology.
History Readings by Edgar Cayce said that Atlantis was destroyed around 10,500 BC and that Atlantean refugees brought civilization to Egypt, constructing the Great Pyramid of Giza and the sphinx within the century or so that followed.
A new religious movement and form of Western esotericism, the Temple of Zeus espouses a religion known as Zevism, whose practitioners are called Zevists, identifying itself as a form of Satanism.
Leucippe, the heroine of The Adventures of Leucippe and Cleitophon by Achilles Tatius Notes References Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S.
He also featured in a commercial for Megapass, a broadband telecommunication service in South Korea.
Hence the presence of descendants of the term *bʰāg(ó) in Italic, Germanic, Albanian, Greek and (Indo-)Iranian, and potentially Celtic, Slavic, and Baltic, indicates that this word belonged to the Proto-Indo-European language.
The idea that there is a connection between the ancient Hopewell mound builders and Jewish settlers that were in the Americas before Columbus is a form of pseudoarchaeology.
All these tangential links would seem to be affirmed by the apparent link between the early Mukunu Ruku narrative and the accounts of the Captaincy of the Malindi coast.
The "lost books" were actually written by Mason and, as reviewers have noted, Mason is a novelist and computer scientist who lives in California, John Shade is a fictional poet in Vladimir Nabokov's Pale Fire, and no such professorship exists.
Additionally, an issue of The INFO Journal speculated as to whether the mountain contains a Phoenician tomb (although there is no scientific evidence to suggest that this is the case).
Henry's last living family member, his Great Uncle Bruno, recently died and left him responsible for settling the estate.
Sino-Babylonianism is the theory (now rejected by most scholars) that in the third millennium B.C., the civilization which existed in the Babylonian region provided the essential elements of material civilization and language to what is now China.
Pan-Turkist views on Armenian history Clive Foss, professor of ancient history at the University of Massachusetts Boston, critically notes that in 1982: The Armenian File in the Light of History, Cemal Anadol writes that the Iranian Scythians and Parthians are Turks.
Henri Édouard Prosper Breuil (28 February 1877 – 14 August 1961), often referred to as Abbé Breuil (French pronunciation: [abe bʁœj]), was a French Catholic priest, archaeologist, anthropologist, ethnologist and geologist.
Both Atwater's Tour to Prairie du Chien and his History contained much natural history lore as well as civil history.
The term 'nations' to describe the descendants is a standard English translation of the Hebrew word goyim following the c.
The Club "E" Epsilon, led by the former professional marathon runner Aristotelis Kakogeorgiou, does not want to be associated with the Epsilon Team conspiracy theories.
Peter van der Veen and Uwe Zerbst specifically criticized his identification of Jabal al-Lawz with Mount Sinai and a number of the geographical locations he thought to be part of the Exodus route.
The Abu Bakr in question was a brother of Sunjata, the founder of the Mali Empire, and apparently never himself ruled.
Jason Colavito Skeptic Jason Colavito counts The Sirius Mystery among the body of works in a tradition of ancient astronaut ideas he believes were ultimately inspired by H.
Günther first defined "Nordic thought" in his programmatic book Der Nordische Gedanke unter den Deutschen ("The Nordic thought among the Germans").
Nazi theorists took a huge interest in the Bayeux Tapestry, going so far as to attempt archaeological digs to find other contemporary artwork that would support their assertion of Germanic might.
His first three books examined international development, including Lords of Poverty (1989), a well-received critique of corruption in the aid system.
In some editions a footnote at the bottom of the page reads: "Such a ship may be seen in the eastern end of Portland Bay, near the modern town of Port Fairy." To what extent the reference in this novel helped to promote the popular image of the wreck is uncertain.
He named those structures "Bosnian pyramids", and established a charitable foundation, the 'Archaeological Park: Bosnian Pyramid of the Sun Foundation', to fund the promotion and investigation of the site.
The abstract of that article also states that "[t]he similarities in ages and geographical distributions for C4c and the previously analyzed X2a lineage provide support to the scenario of a dual origin for Paleo-Indians.
It also permeated the writings of the Swedish writer Johannes Magnus (Historia de omnibus Gothorum Sueonumque regibus) as well as those of his brother Olaus Magnus (Historia de gentibus septentrionalibus).
Ehret argued that this genetic distribution paralleled the spread of the Afrasian language family with the movement of people from the Horn of Africa into Egypt and added a new demic component to the existing population of Egypt 17,000 years ago.
Current scholarship is not consistent with the claims of British Israelism, with scholars drawing attention to its "historical and linguistic inaccuracies" in addition to its links to antisemitism.
The statement expresses skepticism about the ability of random mutations and natural selection to account for the complexity of life, and encourages careful examination of the evidence for "Darwinism", a term intelligent design proponents use to refer to evolution.
The thesis was influenced by the book Türk Tarihinin Ana Hatları (The Mainlines of Turkish History) published by the Committee for the Study of the Turkish History (TOTTTH) of the Turkish Hearths and became a "state dogma" which was included in school textbooks.
1320, released January 2, 1932 (features child actor Billy Hayes visiting "Believe It or Not Land") No.
During Atatürk's government, scholars like Hasan Reşit Tankut and Rıfat Osman Bey were encouraged to have the findings of their studies in history and social sciences be in line with the Turkish Historical Thesis and the Sun Language Theory.
In art Dante's Inferno In Inferno XXVI Dante Alighieri mentions Ulysses in the pit of the Fraudulent Counsellors and his voyage past the Pillars of Hercules.
Osmanagić claims that a cluster of natural hills in central Bosnia and Herzegovina are the largest human-made ancient pyramids on Earth.
It was reported that the object was discovered when a workman at the Braun iron foundry in Schöndorf, Austria, was breaking up a block of lignite that had been mined at Wolfsegg.
9000–500 BC," that is, the mutual ties between ancient East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle-East, including Persia and Babylon.
According to the myth related to Griaule and Dieterlen: "The Nommo divided his body among men to feed them; that is why it is also said that as the universe "had drunk of his body," the Nommo also made men drink.
https://web.archive.org/web/20120510204415/http://eye-on-wales.com/2012/05/06/making-up-pyramids/ Short summary from Las Pirámides de Güímar: mito y realidad in Spanish.
In fiction In the novel Recollections of Geoffrey Hamlyn by Henry Kingsley, published in 1859, there is a fictional account of a wreck that resembled the Mahogany Ship.
From 1993 to 2000 he was a lecturer in the School of Archaeology, Classics and Oriental Studies at the University of Liverpool, and from 1999 to 2001 he was an adjunct professor of the Institute of Nautical Archaeology.
According to Bernard Ortiz de Montellano, "the alleged properties of melanin, mostly unsupported, irrelevant, or distortions of the scientific literature, are [...] used to justify Afrocentric assertions.
Heaven's Gate: The Cult of Cults, a documentary miniseries about the cult, was released on HBO Max in 2020.
However, historian Peter Frankopan argues that influences, particularly trade, through the Middle East and Central Asia to China through the silk roads have been overlooked in traditional histories of the "rise of the West".
Today, remnants of this migration can still be seen in the northern parts of the Samaria region, particularly in the 'Ara Valley, where a significant population of Egyptian descent resides.
In 1986, he worked in Los Angeles for Cannon Films as a sound designer and editor; and wrote and recorded the controversial anti-apartheid song "We come from Johannesburg", which was banned under the previous regime.
See also The Bell Curve Race and intelligence Scientific racism Skin colour § Genetics == References ==
At the time, Atwater and other scholars developed various theories of origin; he thought a culture other than ancestors of Native Americans created such monuments.
When the drilling revealed only a natural cavity, the council denied the investigators permission to drill elsewhere.
Language While the linguistic leanings of the early Rashtrakutas (pre-8th century) has caused considerable debate, the history and language of the imperial Rashtrakutas of Manyakheta has been free of such confusion.
In 1929, Mussolini noted that Italian Jews had been a demographically small yet culturally integral part of Italian society since Ancient Rome.
Some anti-Zionists have cited the Khazar hypothesis in an attempt to discredit the claim by modern Jews to the Land of Israel.
Indeed subsequent events in the narrative lead up to the assimilation of two peoples, referred to as Muku-Ngaa and Murutu, both of whom contribute to the present Meru identity.
Claims Melanin theory posits that individuals' responses to social stimuli are determined by the prevalence of the skin pigment melanin.
Gallery See also Caves of Hercules Dollar sign Notes References External links Media related to Pillars of Hercules at Wikimedia Commons
Schiller's William Tell (1804) makes reference to the legend (act 2, scene 2), in the voice of Stauffacher.
These states would be formed by the Turkic-speaking populations which lived in Crimea, Azerbaijan, Central Asia, northwestern Iran, and northern Iraq.
These references to inscriptions by Corbu inspired two documents of unknown provenance called Recherches de Mons.
He has led a campaign against banks and central banks and championed pseudolegal ideas to obtain money from financial institutions.
135) that the "Proto-Afrasian language, on the verge of a split into daughter languages", meaning, in his scenario, into "Cushitic, Omotic, Egyptian, Semitic and Chadic-Berber", "should be roughly dated to the ninth millennium BC".
The argument, as summarised by Friedrich and Mallory goes that the Indo-European term *bʰāg(ó) most probably refers to the beech tree.
ISBN 0-9592576-3-2 For further information on the establishment of whaling at Port Fairy in the mid-1830s, see J.W.Powling (1980) Port Fairy, The first Fifty Years.
It has been noted by critics however that Saunière began renovating his church in 1886, not 1892, and that "there was no evidence that these parchments had ever existed".
Etterlin presents the three Waldstätten as representing three different stocks or races, the people of Schwyz as the most recent immigrants (from Sweden), the people of Uri representing the original "Goths and Huns", and the people of Unterwalden representing "the Romans".
These exchanges, he argues, shaped the foundations and early evolution of East Asian technology, cosmology, religion, myth, rulership, divination, and literacy.
Ripley's Haunted Adventure is a tourist attraction brand owned by Ripley Entertainment, known for its Ripley's Believe It or Not!
have attempted to censor historical references to Hindu practices such as the caste system and untouchability from history textbooks.
Philip Ainsworth Means, an archaeologist whose specialty was Andean civilizations, attempted to compile all known evidence surrounding the tower in his 1942 book Newport Tower.
Munck's theory claims that calculations using selected numbers or dimensions found in megalithic monuments or Egyptian pyramids yield the latitude or longitude of the site.
Not all were actually used, and there are many such examples, none of which have been shown to be of medieval or earlier Viking origin.
The Gokomere culture likely gave rise to both the modern Mashona people, an ethnic cluster comprising distinct sub-ethnic groups such as the local Karanga clan and the Rozwi culture, which originated as several Shona states.
The book also warns of the dangers of race mixing and the need for white countries to maintain their racial "purity".
Artwork Weingärtner created the phone-styled clay tablet with cuneiform signs as a reaction to an exhibition at the Museum for Communication in Berlin titled From the Cuneiform to the SMS: Communication Once and Today, as well as the negative, global effects of information technology.
The series contains commentary about biblical events and expressions, and progresses from elementary topics such as the existence of God and promoting the Bible as God's word, to deeper subject matter throughout the series.
A date of 10,500 BC is chosen because they maintain this is the only time in the precession of the equinoxes when the astrological age was Leo and when that constellation rose directly east of the Sphinx at the vernal equinox.
Differential weathering on one side of the rock has created what is described as a stylized human face, and weathered markings on another face of the rock have been described as an inscription.
The Hague: Mouton.[5] (Reprinted in Greenberg, Genetic Linguistics, 2005, 193–275.[6])Family tree available at the Linguist List MultiTree Project [no longer functional as of 2014] Greenberg, Joseph H.
But he foresaw that the term [evolution] which he was introducing into science would lose its philosophical and its only true meaning if it were to be used in its narrow sense only—that of a struggle between separate individuals for the sheer means of existence.
They claim to channel human lifeforms and suffer helplessness and total amnesia concerning their identity, origins and life-purpose.
This statement—not more, but also not less—stands as the author's own conclusion to the work presented here.
But this theory encountered inconsistencies even prior to the most recent chronological re-evaluations.
Mestor, along with his nine siblings, became the heads of ten royal houses, each ruling a tenth portion of the island, according to a partition made by Poseidon himself, but all subject to the supreme dynasty of Atlas who was the eldest of the ten.
At the invitation of premier Jan Smuts he returned there in 1942 and began a professorship at Witwatersrand University from 1944 to 1951.
Scholars describe Hancock's investigations of archaeological evidence, myths, and historical documents as mimicking investigative journalism while lacking accuracy, consistency, and impartiality.
In distinction to the usual brand of such writing, the authors use original sources and the book is well written.
According to Knight and Lomas, Uriel warned Enoch about the impending flood, giving Enoch instructions to build a solar observatory, or machine, for the purpose of preserving advanced knowledge.
According to the thesis, the Turks had originally migrated from Central Asia to China and from China, they migrated to India, where they founded the civilizations of Mohenjo-daro and Harappa, and from India, they migrated to other parts of the world.
A plaster cast was made of the object shortly before the end of the 19th century, as the original had suffered from being handled, and had had samples cut from it by researchers.
Likewise, it has been speculated that the lack of information in oral tradition about the voyage reflects a view that the mansa's voyage was a shameful abdication of duty.
In other words, he proposes an even older age for Afroasiatic than Militarev, at least 11,000 years old, and believes farming lexicon can only be reconstructed for branches of Afroasiatic.
Cave paintings Breuil was a competent draughtsman, reproducing faithfully the cave paintings he encountered, although certain modern scholars have questioned the validity of Breuil's sketch known as "The Sorcerer" and his interpretation of it.
Unto Eber were born two sons, the one named Peleg, since in his days the [nations of the] earth were divided, while the name of his brother is Joktan.
Auk 1914:31(1–12) External links Works by or about Philip Lutley Sclater at Wikisource Works by Philip Sclater at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Philip Sclater at the Internet Archive
This consisted in placing the dead king's body in an artificially emptied bull's skin in such a manner that the appearance of life was achieved.
Similar landmarks The Los Lunas Decalogue Stone is often grouped with the Heavener Runestone, Kensington Runestone, Dighton Rock, and the Newport Tower as examples of American landmarks with disputed provenances.
Mitchell-Hedges disclosed in a letter to his brother that he had recently acquired the skull in an auction from Burney, paying £400.
The Racial Laws prohibited Jews from most professional positions as well as prohibited sexual relations and marriages between Italians, Jews, and Africans.
This resulted in his 1975 book Mexico Mystique: The Coming Sixth World of Consciousness, a discussion of Mesoamerican culture strongly colored by Waters' beliefs in astrology, prophecy, and the lost continent of Atlantis.
However, the Paleo-Hebrew script, which is closely related to the Phoenician script, was known to scholars by at least 1870 - thus not precluding the possibility of a modern hoax.
Mormon founder Joseph Smith placed the arrival of the Jaredites in "the lake country of America" (region of Lake Ontario), allowing for the eventual migration of Book of Mormon peoples to Mexico and Central America.
"A comparison of Greenberg's and Wurm's classifications." In Greenberg, Genetic Linguistics, 2005, 261–269.
Buford found the unconscious body of his friend, Bruno Bolet, and declared that no autopsy was necessary.
References Ripley's World of the Unexplained SECRET FUN BLOG: WORLD OF THE UNEXPLAINED MUSEUM BROCHURE
Bailey claimed these verses had been dictated to her telepathically by the Tibetan Master Djwal Kul.
Misrepresentation Weingärtner posted a photo of the image on Facebook as part of a sale of his work, and a Facebook commenter coined the name "BabyloNokia".
[...] One manuscript dealt with aeronautics and the construction of various types of aircraft for civil aviation and for warfare.
Wilson argues that the essential weakness of James George Frazer's The Golden Bough is that Frazer attributed the fundamental mythological systems to the beginnings of the farming cultures, specifically to fertility.
Rather than forcefully summoning demons, these rituals aim to facilitate mystical experiences and empower the practitioners in a way that aligns with their expressive concerns.
The dig team included Beatrice Orme, David Randall-MacIver, Arthur Cruttenden Mace, Henrietta Lawes and Hilda Petrie.
Feder wrote: there is no evidence whatsoever for a culture capable of building the Great Sphinx much before the traditionally accepted date.
He discussed the importance of avoiding "counterselective forces" such as war, inbreeding, free healthcare for the poor, alcohol and venereal disease.
Reception Greenberg's proposal was based on rough estimation of lexical similarity and typological similarity and has not reached a stage where it can be confirmed by the standard comparative method, including the reconstruction of a protolanguage.
The journal has been criticised as being both overtly political and strongly right-leaning, supporting eugenics, racist or fascist.
In 1996, the former merchant navy officer Keramydas published the book Omada E, which went on to become a bestseller.
In his 1723 tract, Le Triomphe de la Providence et de la Religion, he argued that the ten lost tribes had migrated north into the Christianised Roman Empire, and that the rise of Protestantism was the fulfilment of Biblical prophecy.
An example of such disputes is the proposal by Thor Heyerdahl that similarities between the culture of Polynesia and the pre-Columbian civilizations of the Andes are due to diffusion from the latter to the former—a theory that currently has few supporters among professional anthropologists.
Notes External links Works by William Scott-Elliot at Project Gutenberg Works by or about William Scott-Elliot at the Internet Archive Works by William Scott-Elliot at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) The Lost Lemuria, at Sacred Texts The Story of Atlantis, at Sacred Texts
This account, recorded by the Arab historian al-Umari, has attracted considerable interest and speculation as a possible instance of pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact.
He killed his son for having eaten the brains of a sheep that had been sacrificed before it had been put on the altar.
In the aftermath of Mussolini's fall from power and the following German occupation of Italy, the Badoglio government abolished the Racial Laws in the Kingdom of Italy through two royal law decrees passed in January 1944.
"DRAPETOMANIA --- A DISEASE CALLED FREEDOM: An Exhibition of 18th-, 19th- and Early 20th-Century Material Culture of the African Experience in the Americas from the Collection of Derrick Joshua Beard".
According to Dictys Cretensis, he was taken captive by Neoptolemus, who later dressed up in Mestor's Phrygian clothes to deceive Acastus.
Spartel Bank is one of several seamounts in the bed of Gibraltar Strait; similar but deeper seamounts are found at Camarinal Sill and further east.
His story is told in the History of Armenia attributed to the Armenian historian Moses of Chorene (AD 410 to 490).
During the 1980s and 1990s he led many expeditions to investigate ancient shipwrecks and submerged ruins in the Mediterranean, including Roman shipwrecks off Sicily and the harbour of ancient Carthage.
The internal contradictions of the Turkish History Thesis became more pronounced in later decades as Colonel Kurtcebe sought to raise the modern Turkish people's awareness of its connection to Central Asia and the Mongols.
While the "Hamites" of northern Africa were seen as Caucasoid, "Australians", "Melanesians", and "Negritoes" were seen as Negroid sub-races, although living outside the African continent.
Both haplotypes are characteristic Native American haplogroups, but the different haplogroup for each skull indicates that the adult female was not the child's mother.
Oberg also says that the Dogon were not an isolated group and that a member might have acquired knowledge about Sirius B while abroad and later passed it on to the tribe.
The Book of Dzyan was supposedly composed in Atlantis using the lost language of Senzar but the difficulty is that no scholar of ancient languages in the 1880s or since has encountered the slightest passing reference to the Book of Dzyan or the Senzar language.
He cited the Surid legend as evidence that a pyramid-building civilization existed before the flood, and based on the chronology of Plato's story, he asserted that the sinking of Atlantis took place around 9600 BC and that Egyptian civilization must date back that far.
However, the building itself still stands and remains to this day as a museum displaying Catholic sacred art.
During standard devotional rituals, the focus of their practice is described as shifting from exerting control to cultivating attachment and self-development.
He has thought of and perfected a mathematical formula, where he can determine and give accurate answers with ease and astounding speed to those who would like to know the day they were born or what day a date shall fall centuries from now.
It has been proposed by researchers Jacques Collina-Girard and Marc-André Gutscher as a site for the legendary lost island of Atlantis.
Israel's ambassador to Britain branded it "an anti-Semitic action financed by the Palestinians", while Bernard Lewis claimed that the idea was not supported by any evidence whatsoever, and had been "abandoned by all serious scholars".
For purposes of this article, "Nommo" refers to a specific individual and "Nommos" is used to reference the group of beings.
James Savage, former pastor of the Most Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Detroit, bought 40 of the objects.
Mayanism, shamanism, and "Toltecs" Shamanism has become a significant component of Mayanism, in part due to the scholarly interpretation of ancient Maya rulers as shamans and the popularity of Carlos Castaneda, whose books described his apprenticeship to a Yaqui sorcerer.
Apart from the elevated views over the Peak itself, a large attraction was that this line passed close to Dovedale.
In 1988 the Wildlife Institute of India recommended that Mannarkkadu Valley 225.00 km2 be established as a protected area.
Structure Structurally, they consist of dry-stone lava stone enclosures, almost always circular in shape.
Unsanctioned visits In 2009, an account was published of an unauthorized exploration "a couple of years ago" with photographs by Shane Perez.
The walkway is intended to give people the feeling of moving through history with use of the trestle and a new structure.
But, the main gate is best reached, either on foot or by bike, from Teddington's town centre, which is served by the 33, 281, 285, 481, R68, and X26 services, via Park Road, or from the railway station.
Some gardens are for ornamental purposes only, while others also produce food crops, sometimes in separate areas, or sometimes intermixed with the ornamental plants.
Land managers have devised a variety of techniques to block the creation of desire paths, including fences, dense vegetation, and signage, though none are foolproof.
The iSOPARC is an application that implements the SOPARC protocol to generate park use data from the field and to store, process and export it.
Elevated parks have been criticized for high costs, though they have generally attracted positive reviews, including from academia.
In January 2018, "Hops and Headwaters" in support of a campaign to protect the headwaters of the Bighorn Backcountry" was held in Edmonton.
Sepak Takraw: (Thai: เซปักตะกร้อ) The area set aside for this ancient sport "Sepak Takraw" or simply "takraw" is always busy with players of every age and nationality enjoying this blend of hackysack, soccer, and volleyball.
Weightlifting: All along the perimeter path are sturdy devices for exercise, and in the northeast corner is a modern, covered area with weights, benches and a sand floor.
The park has hosted public events such as Summer Movie Mania, an outdoor screening sponsored by the city government.
The trestle is 46 feet high and was originally an elevated narrow gauge rail line for raw materials, built around 1905.
Sépaq falls under the authority of the Minister of Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs (Sustainable development, Environment and Parks) and its head office is located in Quebec City.
The Ceiriog Valley was not added to the AONB, due to the valley's physical relationship with the Berwyn mountain range which crosses the local authority border into Powys, where an extension of the AONB is not supported.
Stone was quarried from a sill of dolerite rock, which was the result of lava rising through the strata of the surrounding limestone 'Derbyshire Dome'.
Smaller urban wilds are used for passive recreation and have less value to the city in terms of enhancing ecosystem function.
The Park and Pleasure Drive Association urged the city to buy the land, but the City Council had not yet accepted that public parks were the city's responsibility.
History The park was given to the people of Govan in 1885 by Isabella Elder, in memory of her husband, the shipbuilding magnate John Elder.
Most towns and cities in Belgium and the southern part of the Netherlands have in their historical centre a Grote Markt (literally "Big Market") in Dutch or Grand-Place (literally "Grand Square") in French (for example the Grand-Place in Brussels and the Grote Markt in Antwerp).
The Piazza San Marco in Venice and Piazza del Popolo in Rome are among the world's best known Italian piazzas.
The American Public Transportation Association, Blue Cross Blue Shield Minnesota, the National Association of Realtors, and the Institute of Transportation Engineers are examples of other current Coalition Steering Committee members.
Over Rail Corridor Area (ORCA) project In May 2017, a new development submission was made to the City of Toronto by a consortium identified as P.I.T.S.
Neighborhood parks, which generally range in size up to 30 acres (120,000 m2), serve as a social and recreational focal points for neighborhoods and are the basic units of a park system.
A capstone, measuring 1.96 metres (6 ft 5 in) by 1.05 metres (3 ft 5 in), is supported by smaller stones.
Greenprinting often involves use of state-of-the-art maps and models created with Geographic Information System (GIS) software that combines layers of spatial and demographic information to guide growth management efforts.
Some greens that used to be commons, or otherwise at the centres of villages, have been swallowed up by a city growing around them.
The plan amendment called for the north end of the rail corridor to be redeveloped with eight high-rise towers, while just over half of the lot—some 12.8 acres—would be devoted to a new public park on the south half of the site.
This region includes all the islands and islets within the territory of the Municipality of La Maddalena, Italy.
There are also two memorials, commemorating the SS Daphne disaster in 1883 and the HMS K13 submarine disaster in 1917, both of which involved the death of local shipyard workers (from Stephens and Fairfields respectively).
Van Zuylen closes her book with a reflection: Garden-making, like other art forms, draws on the past as it looks to the future.
As suburbs developed around major European cities, the attitude to privacy, and by extension to front gardens, was decidedly different from that of the British.
New Zealand In New Zealand, regional parks are administered by regional councils rather than the Department of Conservation or territorial authorities.
National Association of State Park Directors is an organization dedicated to the preservation of state parks in the United States.
The lake also gives its name to the Malta theatre festival, held in Poznań annually in June, with some of the shows taking place next to the lake.
Safdie himself warned the city of this new tactic, stating that development projects in Toronto were being approved, then subsequently revised to provide a lower-quality, lower-cost development in place of an approved project.
Such tables first came into widespread use in the United States in the 1930s, as part of Civilian Conservation Corps projects.
Males of the Steller's Jay in particular seek out territory near picnic tables because of the superior feeding opportunities.
In addition to these courtyards, Village Homes residents share two large parks, two vineyards, and numerous small orchards and community gardens.
The territory of the National Park will also represent an important part of the Bocche di Bonifacio international marine park which will soon be established.
A burial ground of enslaved men, women, and children is located to the southwest of the mansion, adjacent to the site of the property's "sugar camp.".
One of the earliest of such parks was the Promenade plantée (Coulée verte René-Dumont) in Paris, dating to 1993.
It has been proposed since 2002 to be established in the Tenasserim Hills over an area of 680 mi2 (1,800 km2) and extended by 540 mi2 (1,400 km2) in 2004.
The park is home to species such as common frogs (*Rana temporaria*), moor frogs (*Rana arvalis*), lake frogs (*Pelophylax ridibundus*), and smooth newts (*Lissotriton vulgaris*).
In certain complex gardens, such as those designed by Sebastiano Serlio, early elements of labyrinths can be observed.
In this case, the front of the house will face the streets, while the back faces a small linear park containing a pathway, trees and grass connecting different areas together.
Then in the modern times, the beloved gardens of Gertrude Jekyll (Munstead Wood), Vita Sackville-West (Sissinghurst Castle Garden) and Major Lawrence Johnston (Hidcote Manor Garden).
Three ONAs have been designated by Congress, Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse, Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station, and Yaquina Head, all of which protect lighthouses and the adjacent land.
The Upper Pobuzhzhia National Nature Park (Ukrainian: Національний природний парк «Верхнє Побужжя», lit.
Key strategies used in the preservation of urban wilds have included conservation restrictions that keep complex land tenure systems in place while protecting the entire landscape.
The Italian villa culture flourished on the climatically favorable mountain slopes of Latium, Tuscany, and Liguria.
A recreation center is a facility that supports myriad park activities, including sports and other recreational activities appropriate to the population or community that uses the park.
It contains Elder Park Library, a boating pond, the original Fairfield farmhouse, and Linthouse Mansion portico.
Eisenhower planned the D-Day landings from Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF) at Camp Griffiss in the Park.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Centro, Carabanchel, Usera, Latina, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
The endangered Gurney's pitta (Hydrornis gurneyi) was rediscovered in the area of the proposed park in 2003.
A marine park is a designated park consisting of an area of sea (or lake) set aside to achieve ecological sustainability, promote marine awareness and understanding, enable marine recreational activities, and provide benefits for Indigenous peoples and coastal communities.
In 1865, the Petrovsky Agricultural and Forestry Academy (now the Russian State Agrarian University – Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy) was founded on this land.
As the university expanded the botanical garden was replaced by Universitetsplatsen in the 1880s and the new university building, located just north of Kungshuset.
The concept was developed by regional community groups and forest ecologists and researchers from Australian National University and the University of Melbourne.
To estimate how much physical activity a park generates, it is possible to aggregate the total METs across park users.
The establishment of local pocket parks can reduce the stress upon larger urban parks, such as by eliminating overcrowding.
Most injuries on public playground equipment occurred on climbing equipment (53%), swings (19%), and slides (17%).
Examples in Britain include Ventnor Botanic Garden on the Isle of Wight, and parts of Beth Chatto's garden in Essex, Sticky Wicket garden in Dorset, and the Royal Horticultural Society's gardens at Harlow Carr and Hyde Hall.
Transport for London bus routes 111, 216, and 411 pass the Hampton Court Gate on Hampton Court Road (the main southern entrance to the Park).
A footpath runs from the Monsal Trail, over the footbridge at Litton Mill up through the dale to Tideswell.
Facilities and Features The park currently hosts the following facilities: Timofeev Selection Station, established in 1992 by the Russian State Agrarian University – Timiryazev Academy, to preserve the scientific tradition of vegetable crop breeding, founded by Professor A.
Transport The closest railway stations are Hampton Court in East Molesey to the south, Hampton Wick to the east, Teddington and Fulwell to the north, and Hampton to the west.
The foot of the valley leads into Miller's Dale on the River Wye, which the valley's Brook Head stream runs into.
It is about 2.2 km long (with the circuit of 5,6 km), which makes the lake the biggest man-made lake of the city.
Viewing points may also be found on hill or mountain tops or on rocky spurs overlooking a valley and reached via a hiking trail.
The High Line's annual budget is funded almost entirely by park visitors, though it is operated by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation license agreement.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
The trees were then felled and the mound was buried under soil to form part of the back gardens of the housing.
Water games Due to the scorching summers in Italy, the presence of springs and natural watercourses was a must for designing gardens.
Local authority plans In 2023, England's Economic Heartland, supported by consultants, AtkinsRéalis, recognised the greenway as a strategic inter-county route.
John Olin, head of the MPPDA, hired landscape architect Ossian Cole Simonds of Chicago to design the park.
The park also contains several lodges and cottages: Bushy House, housing the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) at the Teddington end, and the Royal Paddocks and two areas of allotments – the Royal Paddocks Allotments at Hampton Wick and the Bushy Park Allotments at Hampton Hill.
A park may feature walking paths and decorative landscaping, while a park intended to provide recreation for children may include a playground.
Oceania Australia Australian government The Australian Government manages an estate of marine protected areas (MPA) that are Commonwealth reserves under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act).
The Manual also serves as a resource for those outside of San Francisco working to establish parklet programs in their own cities.
The European Association of Periurban Parks (FEDENATUR) is an association of natural, fluvial and agricultural parks located in metropolitan and periurban areas in Europe.
When processes such as the decay of wood, winter dieback or succession are allowed to happen the natural cycle helps with biodiversity conservation.
Alberta Parks is a division of the Ministry of Forestry and Parks of the Government of Alberta which is responsible for managing Alberta's provincial parks and protected areas.
Section 7(3) of the act was repealed, and the act was extended, by section 8(1) of, and schedule 2 to, the Parish Councils Act 1957 (5 & 6 Eliz.
At Mapleton Lane, near Ashbourne (map ref: SK175473), there is a car park, cafe, toilets and cycle hire.
Metal forged at the location helped construct the Golden Gate Bridge, George Washington Bridge, and built more than 1,000 naval and merchant ships during World War II.
For example, the beach of Barcola is connected to the center of Trieste by bus and people of all ages take the opportunity to spend their free time by the sea.
Tideswell Dale is a short dry limestone valley near Tideswell village, Derbyshire, in the Peak District of England.
Réserves fauniques (Wildlife reserves) - manages 15 wildlife reserves in forested and wilderness areas.
In January, 2009, under the guidance of current owner, Will Sneyd, the first posts went in at the western end of the lake to build the launch platform for Adrenalin Quarry's first ride - The Zip.
In contrast to the MPPDA's "pleasure drives," this would be a public park for the common man, so it marks a turning point for the MPPDA.
In addition, Fordham Road's locally based businesses saw a 71 percent increase in retail sales, compared to 23 percent borough-wide.
In 1997 United Nations Environment Programme's World Conservation Monitoring Centre listed Karimpuza as a Protected area that overlaps with the South Western Ghats montane rain forests Ecoregion.
skyway, skybridge, or skywalk is an elevated type of pedway connecting two or more buildings in an urban area, or connecting elevated points within mountainous recreational zones.
As of 2025, all original buildings and attractions remain on the island, though several have sustained major damage from hurricanes and natural decay.
In this analysis the Coalition found that community outreach and context sensitivity were important characteristics included throughout the documented examples and were weighted considerably in determining the efficiency and effectiveness of examined policies.
The college, not the town, still owns it and surrounded it with buildings as a sort of collegiate quadrangle in the 1930s, although its origin as a town green remains apparent.
As a source of food subsidy from humans, picnic tables have been found to affect corvid activity as these birds seek out areas near picnic tables and may refrain from scavenging deeper in the forest.
This includes Chicago, Seattle, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., and Montréal, Canada, who have started to reclaim their alleys from garbage and crime by greening the service lanes, or back ways, that run behind some houses.
Formally the number 2 steelmaker in the country, Bethlehem Steel was dissolved and acquired by the International Steel Group in 2003.
Modern trail design attempts to avoid the need for barriers and restrictions, by aligning trail layout and user desire through physical design and persuasive outreach.
The distinction between a heritage centre or park, and a history-based theme park can become blurred, as at Nikko Edomura, focused on Feudal Japan, and Wild West City, a self-described "heritage theme park" about the American Old West.
Cllr Peter Strachan, answering councillors’ questions on the Buckinghamshire decision as the statutory authority said: "Allocating a site in a local plan is very different to implementing that site.
Filming location The island was occasionally used as a movie filming location, most notably for the climax of Treasure of Matecumbe, in which it doubled for the titular Florida Key.
Minnesota held a plebiscite in 1883 which created the independently-elected Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board.
(Archaeological work during a 2008 renovation uncovered artifacts and brick foundations from that house and another at 1613 P Street.) In 1951, work began on Stead Park, an explicitly unsegregated recreational facility.
In 1863, the first idea of creating a grand passage way through the park first arose, but it was only in 1873 when the Municipality of Lisbon took the decision to construct a great avenue through the Passeio.
The park known today was designed in 1745 by the Royal architect Carl Hårleman and originally included a botanical garden.
There are seven main historic types of common land in Scotland, some of which have similarities to common land in England and Wales.
"In 1485, the theorist Leon Battista Alberti first called for the garden to be related to architecture, to the villa, and to the visual arts, such as garden sculpture.
Common examples of park furniture include bandstands, benches, chess tables, fountains, light fixtures, picnic tables, and statues.
In some jurisdictions, furniture used in public parks is made by prison inmates as part of prison work programs.
Foster was a cousin of the Rowan family and reputedly an occasional visitor to Federal Hill, though Foster was likely inspired to write the ballad by Harriet Beecher Stowe's anti-slavery novel Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Landscape architect George Kessler designed extensive parkway systems for Kansas City, Missouri; Memphis, Tennessee; Indianapolis; and other cities at the beginning of the 20th century.
He was later an opposition Whig MP for Bossiney in Cornwall, and briefly Chief Secretary for Ireland.
The site previously hosted the Pulzor neighborhood, whose residents were primarily engaged in floriculture, producing rosewater and various herbal infusions from flowers and plant roots.
A list of parks in Madrid, Spain, sorted by district, is presented as follows: Arganzuela Parque Enrique Tierno Galván; 45.8 ha.
There are many types of flower in the park such as: Orange Jessamine Croton Climbing Ylang Ylang Ixora Rain Tree Tooth Blush Tree Banyan Tree Temple Tree == References ==
The Mayura Park also has a royal residence in the sense of being occupied by the king while resting in the garden, located in what is now the Padmasana.
Between 2000 and 2002, a major renovation was carried out, and new greenhouses covering 1.1 hectares were built using French-made structures by Richel Serres de France.
The Carboniferous limestone rocks of these dales were formed 350 million years ago from the shells and sediments of a tropical sea.
It is a challenging rock climbing location with over 200 graded routes, up to 50m long and including Mutation, graded 9a making it the hardest route in the Peak District.
It was criticized for its alleged association with Y2Y and Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society (CPAWS), described by critics as a "foreign-funded" organizations meddling in the Alberta's affairs.
From Hartington station northwards, the route is part of the Pennine Bridleway, a 130-mile (209 km) leisure route which includes 73 miles (117 km) through Derbyshire to the South Pennines.
Access into Tideswell Dale is easy from the B6049 road which runs down the valley from Tideswell in the north to Miller's Dale, about 1 km west of the south end of the dale.
These areas are dedicated to the conservation, promotion, and use of wildlife resources, and, secondarily, to the practice of outdoor recreational activities.
In 1839 a war broke out between the two kingdoms, which resulted in the defeat of Singasari, but the Mataram king was killed in action, he left 2 sons, crown prince Gde Ngurah Karangasem and Anak Agung Ketut Ngurah Karangasem.
The park, most of which is open to the public, is immediately north of Hampton Court Palace and Hampton Court Park and is a few minutes' walk from the west side of Kingston Bridge.
Other buildings in Lundagård are the AF Borgen, the Lund University Historical Museum and Palaestra et Odeum.
Despite the relatively short length of this branch line, it was deservedly popular with walkers and ramblers, enjoying its heyday in the 1930s.
Christianity The immense significance of the church at that time led to the development of a garden architecture that combined Christian ideals with the ideas of antiquity: from the confined garden spaces (Hortus conclusus) of the medieval cult of Mary to the open Garden of Eden.
25) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to open spaces in England and Wales and Ireland.
The trail has a firm crushed-limestone surface, which is suitable for cyclists, walkers and wheelchair users.
without changing carriages) for passengers from London Euston (via Nuneaton, Uttoxeter and Ashbourne) to Buxton and Manchester.
Mandla Plant Fossils National Park Indroda Dinosaur and Fossil Park, Gandhinagar, Gujarat National Fossil Wood Park, Tiruvakkarai National Fossil Wood Park, Sathanur Akal Wood Fossil Park, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Amkhoi Fossil Park, West Bengal.
The only surviving Caroline garden is located at Bolsover Castle in Derbyshire, but is too simple to attract much interest.
See also Observation Point (disambiguation) for specific places called "Observation Point" Observation deck Observation post Stratum Pier by artist Kendall Buster == References ==
Greenprinting is the creation of conservation scenarios that help communities make informed conservation decisions.
Creating secure areas with bars and locks lowers the beauty of the park, as well as the nature of who is in charge of observing the public space and the feeling of being observed.
For example, the two artificial beaches in New York City and many of the manmade beaches in German cities feature enclosed beach areas open to visitors, but the spaces are managed by private entities as food and drinks venues and close frequently for concerts and events.
Its borders soon attracted the finest homes of Lisbon personalities, leading to the eventual destruction of the park in order to construct a grand boulevard that would become the Avenida da Liberdade.
Early conservation in the United States, 1866–1916 The word was resurrected by Americans in the 19th and 20th centuries from the old idioms used for the wardens – royally appointed – who patrolled the deer parks and hunting forests in England.
These rangers may set policy for the parks, or handle park budgets, computers and technology, human resources, or other fields related to the administration of parks.
IUCNcategory PRO (proposed) In 1998 Karimpuzha was listed by the first World Heritage Forest meeting in Berastagi, Indonesia, as being of potential interest as a World Heritage Forest.
The Office of Public Works stated that the damage had resulted from the failure of the earlier repairs.
See also References This page was adapted, with permission, from informational materials developed by the National Complete Streets Coalition.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Although Disney never officially stated its reasons for closing the park, it is widely speculated that high costs of maintenance, declining attendance, improper treatment of animals, and the opening of a bigger and newer Disney Animal Kingdom are the most likely reasons.
Collections There are 3 pairs of statues of a Muslim leader wearing traditional Banjar clothing, placed in the east, south and west of the Bale Kambang courtyard, there is also 1 bronze cannon near the entrance of the bale kambang and 1 iron cannon near the entrance of the park.
Since then, Kew has redesigned the gardens to create a walk through the temperate woodlands of the world.
The National Playing Fields Association also promoted playgrounds across the middle of the century (one of its founding aims was to "secure proper playgrounds for children"), which in their mind equated to manufactured equipment.
The farm is best known for its association with American composer Stephen Foster's sentimental ballad "My Old Kentucky Home, Good Night".
Adrenalin Quarry is a family-owned visitor attraction and adventure park in Menheniot, Cornwall, United Kingdom.
After the late 1950s the focus of Alberta's parks policy began to shift from recreation to wilderness preservation.
Polk County is the most populous county in Iowa with around 500,000 residents living within the county boundaries, with the majority living in the Des Moines metro area.
This was either done to wield power, or protect the sanctity of the knowledge from getting diluted or misused.
Little Sugar Creek Greenway, 20-mile long greenway in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina The Loop, a network of seven linear parks encircling Tucson, Arizona, with over 100 miles of paved trails Manhattan Waterfront Greenway, a circumferential foot and cycle path around Manhattan Island.
History The trestle is located on 10 acres and features five furnaces with the oldest at the western end of the site dating from 1913.
The committee was to present its development and management plan to the Ministry of Municipal and Regional Affairs later that year.
After the popularity of the song increased throughout the United States, Federal Hill was purchased by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, dedicated as a historic site, and renamed "My Old Kentucky Home" on July 4, 1923.
FEDENATUR is currently giving input through different documents and mechanisms into the current EC Green Infrastructure Strategy.
Television critic Robert Lloyd, in an article for the LA Times, said it "strikes [him] as a kind of companion piece to the network's [then] currently airing Chowder and The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack.
There are stands representing gardens from neighbouring countries, and stands selling local products.
Between 1974 and 1999, it was an attraction open to guests, who could observe its many species of animals.
The Park's includes some beaches and these islands: La Maddalena, Caprera, Spargi and Spargiotto, Budelli, Razzoli e Santa Maria and the Isles of Nibani, Mortorio, Soffi e Camere.
The size of new front yards gradually decreased during the second half of the 20th century as houses were built closer and closer to the front of housing blocks.
It transforms a stretch of riverbank into a beach experience complete with sand, deck chairs, and water activities.
Stead Park is a 1.5-acre (0.61 ha) municipal park located in the Dupont Circle neighborhood of Northwest Washington, D.C.
Federal Hill Federal Hill, commonly known as "My Old Kentucky Home", is a historic 7,501 square feet (696.9 m2) mansion that was planned and commissioned by Judge John Rowan and his wife Ann Lytle.
Special Christmas candlelight tours are offered during the holiday season each year in which the mansion is decorated for the holiday and is lit by candlelight.
The Open Spaces Society states that in 2005 there were about 3,650 registered greens in England covering 8,150 acres (3,298 ha) and about 220 in Wales covering about 620 acres (251 ha).
The urban wilds prioritized by municipalities tend to be partial wetlands that perform a range of ecological services while contributing to the biological diversity of the region.
Hartington signal box, beside the trail although some distance from the village, has been converted to an information centre, which is open in summer on Saturdays, Sundays and Bank Holidays.
Elements in the physical design of a park, such as an open and welcoming entry, good visibility (sight lines), and appropriate lighting and signage can all make a difference.
A paradeisos was a playground for the Persian nobility, combining parklands, orchards and hunting grounds.
One study from the University of Pennsylvania concluded that converting vacant lots into pocket parks reduces crime rates.
The headquarters of the family's Fairfield Shipbuilding and Engineering Company were directly opposite the park to the north on Govan Road – the buildings still exist as the Fairfield Heritage Centre.
The first (in 2004) to identify periurban parks and list their functions (environmental, social, economic).
Tegnérsplatsen is located between the Historical Museum and the AF Borgen and contains a statue of Esaias Tegnér.
With this change of direction, Nolen continued Simonds' style of landscaping; he specified 96 varieties of plantings of which 85% were native.
Spaatz went on to command the US Army Air Forces throughout the European Theatre of Operations (ETO) and in early 1944 became commander of the newly formed US Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF) in Europe at Widewing.
The process of enclosure began to be a widespread feature of the English agricultural landscape during the 16th century.
In 1835, the most noteworthy reformulation of the park was initiated by Malaquias Ferreira Leal, architect for the Municipality of Lisbon.
See also List of protected areas of Quebec - list of national parks and reserves in Quebec, including those under management by Sépaq References External links Sépaq (Parcs Québec) official site
Projects FEDENATUR has promoted and participated in three European Interreg projects to technical exchanges and raising awareness on the concept of Periurban Parks.
Canada The development and history of Canadian front yards generally followed early American trends but diverged in the early 1900s.
Local restaurants were able to increase their street trading permits into the parklet - which also helped them maintain physical distancing for patrons waiting for takeaways during the COVID-19 pandemic.
It is a place for local people and tourists to visit and is a location for many of Chiang Mai’s festivals such as the Flower Festival.
These physical indicators—such as worn-down keys on a keyboard, chew marks on a pen, or paint transfers on road guardrails—provide an unbiased record of how an object or environment is actually used.
The mansion is constructed on a native limestone foundation that supports an English basement and two and a half stories, with an exterior primarily of brick that were fired on-site and laid in the Flemish bond pattern.
The area comprises evergreen forest at elevations from 50 to 4,078 ft (15 to 1,243 m), which is governed by Myanmar's Forest Department.
The tomb was repaired in 1973 and in the 1990s, including the addition of a concrete block to support the capstone.
In the late 2017, this park was closed by Chuwit Kamolvisit sold this land to Land and Houses with a value of 5,000 million baht.
In 2022, the city began a $15.4 million renovation of the recreation center, intended as a "modernization of the existing recreation facility with an addition and to bring it up to ADA standards." The new recreation center opened in Spring 2024.
Statistics As of 2014 the parks system included: In addition 10 sites representing 3,584 acres (1,450 ha) are controlled by Alberta Parks but are not (yet) designated as part of a park or protected area.
In 1927, the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission was formed to plan and acquire parklands along stream valley corridors in the then-rural northern and eastern suburbs of Washington, D.C.
Challenges to development of the greenway have included the intervening floodplain of Cuttle Brook, Scotsgrove Brook and the River Thame, along with the challenge of co-ordinating efforts across the Buckinghamshire-Oxfordshire border.
Nevill brought a lawsuit against Liddell who, rather than pay the damages of £10,000, handed the Wakehurst estate over to his younger brother Charles and went abroad.
In 1974, Molson's purchased the land and brewery, creating a parkland, baseball diamond, and adding a drive-through beer store for cottagers driving on Highway 400.
It is surrounded by Teddington, Hampton, Hampton Hill and Hampton Wick and is mainly within the post towns of Hampton and Teddington, those of East Molesey and Kingston upon Thames taking the remainder.
Subsequent developments The commencement provision (section 24) and the repeal schedule were themselves repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1927 (17 & 18 Geo.
There are considerations to rebuild parts of the beach in Barcola, as it was largely overbuilt by road construction in the 19th century.
The Tissington Trail is a bridleway, footpath and cycleway in Derbyshire, England, along part of the trackbed of the former railway line connecting Ashbourne to Buxton.
History After World War II, many communities in the United States were designed to facilitate easy and fast access to destinations via automobile.
See also List of attractions and events in the Louisville metropolitan area National Register of Historic Places listings in Nelson County, Kentucky Kentucky portal Notes References Emerson, Ken (1998).
Early in the 20th century, housing developments influenced by the garden city movement, initiated by Ebenezer Howard in 1898, featured detached houses with undivided "communal grass areas" in front of them.
The Commission renovated the property and gave the farm to the Commonwealth of Kentucky for use as a state park, with the official dedication on July 4, 1923.
Boehm, 1906, Category A listed), and one to her husband John Elder (Archibald Shannan, 1888, Category B listed).
Although for many uses it is sufficient to designate the boundaries of the marine park and to inform commercial fishing boats and other maritime enterprises, some parks have gone to additional effort to make their wonders accessible to visitors.
Local government bodies besides park districts also own museums and public event venues such as arenas; in some places the main public museums are instead part of the local library district or a separate museum district.
Description The tomb, situated on a small ridge, is a cist, a type of burial chamber found in Ireland on the south and east coast.
They are an important building block for nature conservation and help to preserve the sites of natural beauty, cultural landscapes, rare species and biotopes and to make them accessible to later generations.
These developments can lead to waterlogging of the soil, causing tree roots to rot and negatively affecting vegetation.
One such square, Tiananmen Square, is a famous site in Chinese history due to it being the site of the May Fourth Movement, the Proclamation of the People's Republic of China, the 1976 Tiananmen Incident, the 1989 Tiananmen Square Protests, and all Chinese National Day Parades.
Greenprinting can galvanize public support and encourage partners to work toward common conservation goals.
The Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR), also known as Board of Parks and Recreation or Park Board, is used by many government bodies to describe the parts of their organizations that oversee public parks and recreational public works.
Village Homes - Davis, California The Village Homes development is situated on a sixty-acre parcel in suburban Davis, California.
During the war between Sasak Mataram and the Dutch, the bale kambang was used to store weapons and gunpowder, after it was taken over Dutch government, the bale kambang became a courtroom and the building in the north became the office of the Assistant Resident and the Cakranegara District office.
The proposal is supported by 30 environmental and scientific groups, including the Royal Society of Victoria, Australian Conservation Foundation and The Wilderness Society.
He called the island a "tropical paradise", and said he did not know the area was off limits to the public.
Some working arrangement between the owners will be required, probably through a Memorandum of Agreement".
Karimpuzha National Park (Malayalam: കരിമ്പുഴ നാഷണൽ പാർക്ക്‌) is a 230 km² proposed National Park located at 11°16′30″N 76°25′25″E in the Nilgiri Hills area of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, in South India, IUCN category: PRO History Madras Forest Act came into force in 1882.
This system of linear parks was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted to connect the Boston Common and Public Garden (1837) to Franklin Park (Boston), also known as the "crown jewel" of Olmstead's work in Boston.
Protected Landscapes: "concrete places in the natural environment that, because of their aesthetic and cultural valuer, merit special protection".
In instances where a parklet is not intended to accommodate people, it may provide greenery, art, or some other visual amenity.
Active recreation such as team sports, due to the need to provide substantial space to congregate, typically involves intensive management, maintenance, and high costs.
In 1745, the house was bought by Johan Bartram Kitz (1712-1759), who established a restaurant in the garden, known as Kitziska trädgården (Kitzian Gardens), which also included tobacco gardens and fishponds.
A park system, also known as an open space system, is a network of parks and other green spaces that are connected by public walkways, bridleways or cycleways.
Tideswell Dale car park is on the B6049 from where the footpath follows an avenue of mature beech trees.
Genius loci: originally the place dedicated to a local god (a protective spirit), later the specific attributes or special significance of a piece of landscape.
Simonds is considered the founder of the Prairie School of landscape architecture, which advocated restoring and highlighting natural landscape features using local materials and native plants in a picturesque way, as opposed to formal, geometric designs.
448 Det gamla Göteborg - staden i väster, Första delen, C R A Fredberg (1921), Facsimile med omfattande tillägg, 1977, Sven Schånberg, Arvid Flygare, Bertil Nyberg, Walter Ekstrands Bokförlag 1977 ISBN 91-7408-015-6 s.
It was also admired by Frederick Law Olmsted and used to create the famous Emerald Necklace in Boston.
The cities of Urbandale, Clive, and West Des Moines all are mostly in Polk County, but have parks located in other counties which are not counted towards parks in Polk County.
As of 2015, the park, covering an area of 108,000 hectares (1,080 km2), was projected to be open by 2021.
This list of urban parks by size includes parks at least 404.7 hectares (1,000 acres) or 4 square kilometres (1.5 sq mi) and contained entirely within a locality's municipal or metropolitan boundary.
The establishment of the Experimental Forest Dacha was overseen by the renowned forester Alfons Vargas de Bedemar.
Because of the importance of the lake for the city of Poznań, various methods to improve its water quality have been investigated.
It is near Ardingly, West Sussex in the High Weald (grid reference TQ340315), and comprises a late 16th-century mansion, a mainly 20th-century garden and, in a modern building, Kew's Millennium Seed Bank.
Links Біорізноманітна Україна На Хмельниччині замислилися над створенням нацпарку «Верхнє Побужжя» На Хмельниччині встановлюють межі нового національного природного парку Archived 2014-02-23 at the Wayback Machine == References ==
The most prevalent diagnoses were fractures (39%), lacerations (22%), contusions/abrasions (20%), and strains/sprains (11%).
The term ranger was also applied to a reorganization of the Fire Warden force in the Adirondack Park after 1899 when fires burned 80,000 acres (320 km2) in the park.
With an attendance of 25,000 people, the 1987 Edgefest demonstrated Molson Park as a venue for large Toronto-based festivals.
Land tenure of a single ecological area can be complex, with multiple public and private entities owning adjacent properties.
The proposed park contains a variety of flora and fauna, including 19 plant species listed in the Red Book of Ukraine, 37 regional rare species and 17 animal species found in the European Red List.
Much of the initial growth occurred around the capitol, but as the decades passed, the surrounding areas began to fill in, reaching east up the isthmus.
Given that this valley is inhabited by forest-dependent tribes, sanctuary rather than national park status is more appropriate in the short-term.
Experts studying child development, including Tim Gill, have written about the overprotective bias in the provision for children, particularly in playgrounds.
The Hoover-Mason Trestle is a 1650-foot elevated linear park in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania on the reclaimed industrial site of Bethlehem Steel.
Around half of the greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere get absorbed by the floral components of the biodiversity, providing nature-based aid in the fight against the climate change and habitat for the fauna.
Currently there are 140 tree species in the garden, which is further classified into 47 families and 107 classes.
The tomb is known as a "Linkardstown burial", after a megalithic grave found in the townland of Linkardstown, south-east of Carlow.
The garden today covers some 2 km2 (490 acres) and includes walled and water gardens, woodland and wetland conservation areas.
A pattern language is an organized and coherent set of "patterns", each of which describes a problem and the core of a solution that can be used in many ways within a specific field of expertise.
A fungus gnat – a type of fly – new to the UK was found in the Waterhouse Woodland Gardens by entomologist Peter Chandler and identified as Grzegorzekia bushyae and also known as the Bushy gnat.
Ward then created a storyboard for the episode "The Enchiridion!", which was his attempt to emulate the style of the original Nicktoons short.
In 2005, FEDENATUR joined the European Habitats Forum (EHF), which assembles leading European nature conservation organisations to provide advice on the implementation and future development of EU biodiversity policy.
In New South Wales, there are planned marine parks which will stretch along the coastline of the entire state.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Latina, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Modern landscape architects increasingly adopt a pre-paving strategy: allowing paths to emerge naturally over several months before paving them as permanent walkways.
The remains were examined by the Royal Irish Academy, the Academy's report later being delivered by George Petrie.
It was discovered in 1838, when workmen were employed to remove a tumulus of height 15 feet (4.6 m) and circumference 120 feet (37 m).
It has been featured in a number of British newspapers, including The Sunday Times and The Guardian as a top attraction to visit in Cornwall.
Such gardens were typically decorated with statues, columns, fountains and frescoed walls, as well as decorative stonework.
but continued to operate until July 9, 1999, at which point all of its animals had been relocated to Disney's Animal Kingdom (whose Safari Village hub area was renamed Discovery Island) and other zoos.
Dispatchers coordinate multi-agency responses to emergencies within the park boundaries and utilize computer systems to check for criminal histories of subjects stopped by park law enforcement rangers.
Notes References External links Text of the Open Spaces Act 1906 as in force today (including any amendments) within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
In popular culture Much of Kenneth Branagh's 2006 film As You Like It, adapted from Shakespeare's play, was filmed on location at Wakehurst.
A small cemetery, reportedly containing the graves of about a dozen professors and scientists involved in agriculture, as well as members of their families.
Traditionally, the park use patterns have been studied by direct observation - either in person or video recording.
Grave goods were found including many small perforated sea-shells (the flat periwinkle, Littorina obtusata), which presumably formed a necklace, and a flint knife.
The trail runs gently downhill from Parsley Hay southwards but, about 1⁄4 mile (400 m) north of the cycle hire centre at Mapleton Lane in Ashbourne, the trail dips down and up where a viaduct has been removed; both slopes are about 130 feet (40 m) long with gradients of 1:9.
The Linthouse Mansion was built in 1791, however the only remaining part of the house now is the portico.
In the late 1930s, it was purchased for $800 by a man named Delmar "Radio Nick" Nicholson, who renamed it "Idle Bay Isle" and lived there for 20 years with his wife and pet crane.
In effect, the Supreme Court decision left lands owned by public authorities by their statutory powers open to development for any purpose that they deem to be appropriate.
A famous royal garden of the late Shang dynasty was the Terrace, Pond and Park of the Spirit (Lingtai, Lingzhao Lingyou) built by King Wenwang west of his capital city, Yin.
HM Planning Inspectorate is responsible for determining applications under the 2006 Act regarding common land in England, and several other pieces of legislation regarding commons and greens.
The creation of the two parks "triggered an era of park philanthropy" from modest donors as well as the wealthy.
Monaco Street Parkway, in Denver, Colorado, is a parkway, part of the Denver Park and Parkway System, which was designed by architect S.R.
Located on Maharat Road, Phra Borom Maha Ratchawang Subdistrict, Phra Nakhon District behind the Grand Palace between Tha Tian (N8) and Tha Chang Wang Luang Pier (N9).
The 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago placed its neoclassical buildings in an attractive, clean setting among lagoons and fountains, sparking an interest in public parks in many places.
It is intended for walkers, cyclists and those using other wheeled non-road transport, such as wheelchairs, mobility scooters, prams and children's scooters.
After the defeat against the Dutch, the destroyed Cakranegara palace only left the Mayura Park and the Lombok royal treasure.
The informal, outdoor character of picnic-table interactions has lent them to non-recreational uses as well.
It is the sister museum to Clifford's Whydah Pirate Museum Archived 2017-03-30 at the Wayback Machine already established 40 miles (64 km) north, in Provincetown.
It is a natural or landscaped course for pedestrian or bicycle passage; an open-space connector linking parks, nature reserves, cultural features, or historic sites with each other and with populated areas; locally certain strip or linear parks designated as parkway or greenbelt.
Proposed location The park would extend between Kinglake National Park (west) and Baw Baw National Park (east), Lake Eildon National Park (north) and Bunyip State Park (south).
In the 16th century, the village of Semchino was located here; it was later renamed Petrovskoye-Razumovskoye.
At Tissington station (map ref: SK177520), there is a car park, cafe, toilets and picnic site, with a tea room in the village itself.
Origins & History Clicker Trikes 1986-89 Quad Centre 1989-92 Kartworld Hoverworld 2009 - 2010 Adrenalin Quarry 2009 - Current Adrenalin Quarry was formerly known as Clicker Tor Quarry.
Although they are often too small for many space-intensive physical activities, pocket parks provide communities with greenery, a place to sit and rest, and an ecological foothold for urban wildlife.
The popularity of urban beaches increased in the early 21st century as the concept was championed by urban planners, landscape architects and local politicians.
This led to the passage of the Provincial Parks and Protected Areas Act in 1930 and the formation of the Provincial Board of Management to oversee the system.
There is a group of such burials, having mounds of similar size and situated on a hilltop or similar location.
Indonesia A large open square common in villages, towns and cities of Indonesia is known as alun-alun.
In the early hours of 26 January 2003 about 120 bars and other businesses on this plot of land were demolished.
About that time, John Olin proposed another idea: to artificially enlarge the Yahara River to let small boats cross the isthmus between Mendota and Monona, with a scenic parkway with walking trails along each bank.
Urban wilds are vital to species of migratory birds that have nested in a given area since prior to its urbanization.
References in the act to charity law have been updated on several occasions, including by the Charities Act 1960, the Charities Act 1993, the Charities Act 2006, and the Charities Act 2011.
Route details At Parsley Hay, a small settlement to the north-east of Hartington, it is joined by the High Peak Trail, another rail trail which is 17 miles (27 km) in length from High Peak Junction, near Cromford in Matlock, to Dowlow, near Buxton.
Circular in plan, with an external diameter of 11 meters and wall height at 4 meters, the garden is located in a natural amphitheater made up of terraced vineyards, with centuries-old Zibibbo trees, in the Khamma district.
along national parkways such as the Blue Ridge Parkway, which has numerous individually named overlooks for viewing the Blue Ridge Mountains and their valleys.
Numerous cities and suburbs in Illinois have independently-elected park boards, and other regionally-elected bodies exist such as the Forest Preserve District of DuPage County and Fox Valley Park District.
Inspired by the High Line in New York City and designed by Patrick Cullina, plantings were chosen to highlight the lighting and take cues from the existing structure.
It was frequented by the rich burgher class and particularly popular among the officers of Gothenburg.
Second World War During the Second World War, Hillfields was industrial and so the target of German air raids.
The gift shop contains Items concerning the park and the state of Kentucky, especially books by Kentucky authors and Kentucky Derby items.
Knockmaree Dolmen, or Knockmaree Cist, is a prehistoric site of the Neolithic period, in Phoenix Park just north of Chapelizod, near Dublin, Ireland.
On April 30, 2020, a man was arrested for camping on Discovery Island, supposedly attempting to spend quarantine on the island.
On June 26, 2009 King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX) named the park "Nagaraphirom", meaning "delightful park for the townspeople".
The word mandala literally means a circular, symmetrical pattern that is used in Hindu and Buddhist symbolism.
The elevated nature of the line (at Parsley Hay, it is over 1,000 feet (305 m) above sea level) means that it affords good views, but it is exposed in poor weather.
The nearby Eisenhower House is named in the General's honour, and Shaef Gate is named after the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force.
Some traditional types of eastern gardens, such as Zen gardens, however, use plants sparsely or not at all.
The proposed area to be set aside near Rocky Mountain House is "about the size of Rhode Island" and is the largest of four proposals for "new or expanded" parks.
The ancient texts of India refer to Mandala Vatikas that were dedicated to deities such as Ganesha, Durga, Lakshmi, Shiva, Kartikeya, to planets and even to constellations (Nakshatra Vana), so that individuals could meditate in these groves.
One of several studies and consultations on route options between Thame and Haddenham was commissioned by Buckinghamshire County Council, assisted by Jacobs Baptie Ltd, in 2008 and 2009.
It lies within the Timiryazevsky District of the Northern Administrative Okrug and covers an area of 232 hectares.
Timiryazevsky Park (also known as the Experimental Forest Dacha of the Russian State Agrarian University – Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy) is a forest park located in the north of Moscow.
History At the beginning of the 19th century, Lombok was divided into several small kingdoms, until 1838 there was a war and the unification of the kingdom which left 2 major kingdoms, namely Sasak Singasari and Sasak Mataram.
In an interview in 2004, he admitted to having paid police to carry out the raid, but when they later demanded more money he refused.
In Easter 2018 the Aqua Park opened, a large 'total wipeout' style inflatable assault course on the lake of the flooded quarry, taking the total amount of activities at the attraction up to 5.
In Hinduism, deities are represented and invoked through unique sacred, geometrical patterns inscribed in yantras and mandalas.
Stead Park has also been used as a practice field by the Washington Renegades RFC, the first rugby union club in the United States to recruit gay men and men of color.
It has become more popular in the early 21st century, featuring in a number of urban renewal projects.
A more serious threat to the park's green areas is posed by construction projects near its boundaries.
Railcars carried coke, limestone, and iron ore along the trestle from the Lehigh River to the blast furnaces where their contents were then dropped.
The park's sandstone entrance gates were refurbished during 2021, with a small ceremony taking place at the conclusion of the project in February 2022.
History Ancient times The depiction of entertainment in nature has been documented as far back as 1500 BC, with depictions of garden scenes with guests entertained by musicians and dancing girls.
However, some cities have allowed restaurants to create parklets that are not open to the public such as Long Beach, California, Fargo, North Dakota and Montreal, Quebec.
In societies with flexible tools of negotiation and bargaining on income, smoother mechanisms of adaptation may be available.
Evans School of Public Affairs Benefit-Cost Analysis Archived 18 January 2022 at the Wayback Machine site maintained by the Transportation Economics Committee of the Transportation Research Board(TRB).
Due to falling passenger numbers, rail subsidies from the government were necessary to keep the railways financially viable.
Choice Open Public Services, a white paper published by the Cameron–Clegg coalition in the United Kingdom in 2011, aimed to create a comprehensive policy framework for "good public services".
In both cases, the financial rewards of joining up are used as a central part of the "sales package" — continued use of these tactics in poor areas proves sufficiently successful in attracting a high level of new recruits.
These amendments are part of the General Budget of the Union (OGU) and are a way for parliamentarians to directly influence the allocation of public resources.
Criticism and concerns Definitional ambiguity Critics have noted that the term "digital public infrastructure" conflates two distinct meanings of "public": population-scale deployment versus public accountability and governance.
In 2018, Holcombe describes political capitalism as an economic system in which the sharp distinction between states and markets is blurred.
In 2009, he was appointed Founding Master of the Morningside College of the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
In January 1920, the Council recommended the creation of an Expert Survey Board to conduct research studies over the next six months to enable speedy mobilization in the event of another war.
The decision to privatization has been much criticized and Chile lamented for having been duped into losing her economic future to the hands of "predatory" capitalists.
The American school, centered largely in the United States, is characterized by its adherence to positivist, empirical methodologies and a focus on midlevel theory and state-centric analysis.
David Tyfield, of Lancaster University, described the book as "erudite and accessible" but questioned whether its central call for bridge-building between traditions genuinely addressed their deep conceptual differences.
The American Competitiveness Initiative (ACI) was a federal assistance program intended to help America maintain its competitiveness through investment in research and development (R&D) and education.
In Marxian economics and related schools, unearned income originates from the surplus value produced by an economy, where "surplus value" refers to value beyond what is needed for subsistence.
Likewise, although its heuristic model is straightforward to understand, the cycle is not totally applicable in all situations of policymaking due to it being far too simple as there are more crucial steps that should go into more complex real life scenarios.
References External links The ACI Press Briefing held on February 1, 2006 ACI Booklet from the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)
Their pamphlets in February 1815 had a little known precursor at the time in the work of James Anderson.
He is also the President of the Conflict and Education Learning Laboratory, a non-profit foundation, registered in the Netherlands, which is dedicated to working for an international agreement to reduce divisive stereotypes in school textbooks.
L MacDougall noted that in the early 1970s, "undergraduate courses in Canadian literature represented only 8% of the total offerings of departments of English." Courses in Quebec literature were also hard to find even in Quebec.
All draft documents, all arguments for and against a proposal, all final decisions, and the decision making process itself are made public and remain publicly archived.
It suggests that Medicare and Medicaid payment reductions could cause significantly lower profits and so started cost-cutting in hospitals necessary to avoid closing hospitals.
Legal aspects Certain official measures executed during Greece's state debt restructuring process and the subsequent private sector involvement were not covered by existing ISDA provisions for CDS contracts, as the International Monetary Fund conceded.
Departing from a three-phase rotation for short periods is not impossible, but prolonged deployment is detrimental both to the psychological health of service personnel, and to the operational life of equipment, leading to an unwanted turnover in personnel, and to premature failure of equipment.
Variations and implications Different nations and militaries will vary the rule of thirds according to their own financial and manpower situations.
This erosion of public trust not only diminishes their popularity but also undermines the effectiveness of governance.
For example, a government predistribution policy might require employers to pay all employees a living wage and not just a minimum wage, as a "bottom-up" response to widespread income inequalities or high poverty rates.
The soldiers were quartered in the houses of ordinary people, who had to provide shelter, food and Servisgeld, a defined sum to allow the soldier to buy firewood and salt.
The Byzantine Empire took advantage of its strategic position along various trade routes and the decline of Western Europe to rise to core status until its fall in 1453.
This idea was based on the concept that the multinational corporations had reaped profits far in excess of what was considered "normal business practice".
Mining companies are generally granted concessions to allow them to recoup their initial capital expenditures because of the risky nature of mining.
He then became Minister of Finance in the Marijnen cabinet serving from 24 July 1963 until 14 April 1965.
In the UK, the process of assessing the needs of the people of an area and then designing and securing an appropriate public service to meet those needs, is often called commissioning.
He also served on the Supervisory Board of Educational Testing Service (Princeton) from 2002 to 2014 and to several Dutch firms from 1981 to 1989 (before becoming a Minister).
List See also List of countries by employment rate List of countries by government spending as percentage of GDP List of countries by labour force Public sector == References ==
In the diagram, there is overproduction at QMarket - Qoptimum with an associated deadweight loss of the shaded triangle.
Consequently, many traditional public policy schools had to adjust their curricula to suit this new policy landscape, as well as develop entirely new curricula altogether.
The sectors of the economy which lead initially begin to level off, while other sectors begin to take off.
In August 1973 Witteveen was nominated as the next Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), he resigned as a Member of the Senate the same day he was installed as Managing Director, serving from 1 September 1973 until 18 June 1978.
Guffey, chief of petroleum section Commander John Milton Hancock, Navy member of the price fixing committee Charles P.
Many countries in Africa and South America have exhibited the qualities of a sub-imperial or semi-industrial power.
The National Resource Center (NRC) program of the United States Department of Education provides funding grants to American universities to establish, strengthen, and operate language and area or international studies centers that will be national resources for teaching any modern foreign language.
SEBI’s investor guidance on the primary market also identifies underwriters as registered intermediaries involved in public issues and notes that offer documents disclose details of underwriting arrangements.
Diamantaras, Dimitrios (2009), A Toolbox for Economic Design, New York: Palgrave Macmillan, ISBN 978-0-230-61060-6.
A contemporary, Quentin Skinner, has suggested that Mirrlees was a member of the Cambridge Apostles along with fellow Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen during the period.
Agreeable subset is another problem in which agents with different preferences have to choose together a subset that would serve all of them together.
After the Commission on Canadian Studies ended its work, Professor Symons transmitted its copious fonds to the archives of Trent University Library where they now occupy some 19 metres of shelf space in 73 boxes (see the list of Archival Sources below).
In the aftermath of March 1951, the economic crisis worsened and Iranian oil was not bought by other countries.
Description The bargaining model of war is a means of describing war as a political rather than economic or social action.
Many church bazaars held "white elephant sales" where donors could unload unwanted bric-à-brac, generating profit from the phenomenon that "one man's trash is another man's treasure" and the term has continued to be used in this context.
He left Harvard for the University of Pennsylvania in 1990, where he worked as an assistant professor of economics until 1993 and assistant professor of public policy until 1997.
The measures undertaken included the "persuasion" of certain Greek debt-holders to accept large haircuts under a supposedly “voluntary PSI" agreement.
In fiscal year 2004, Wyoming was guaranteed to receive at least $15 million, California $133 million.
It also presents the theory of comparative advantage, the theory that free trade between two or more countries can be mutually beneficial, even when one country has an absolute advantage over the other countries in all areas of production.
In the former Eastern Bloc countries, the public sector in 1989 accounted for between 70% and over 90% of total employment.
In politics Voting Scholars estimate that, even in a battleground state, there is only a one in ten million chance that one vote could sway the outcome of a United States presidential election.
With performance evaluations, an assessment is made of how the execution has progressed compared to plans and similar implementations.
Since the 1990s, "new fiscal sociology" has analysed the foundational role of taxation as a cause, and not just an effect, of the emergence of modernity.
On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation (19 April 1817) is a book by David Ricardo on economics.
FSR is funded by financial allocations from the state and falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance.
In January 1976, the government pledged to restore the illegally occupied land to its owners, and in 1977, it promulgated the Land Reform Review Law.
According to a 2013 Center for American Progress, from 2008 through 2013, categorical grant funding decreased for 29 out of 50 states as did block grants.
(1858–1942), member of chemical division Arch Wilkinson Shaw, head of conservation division Edward Stettinius Sr., partner in J.P.
Producers who opposed state interference or were confident in their abilities could continue to work in their properties, albeit under a higher export duty.
Cost in the system are classified as a credence-costs as the buyer cannot tell the quantity bought even after buying them.
The Culture Recovery Fund is a grants programme issued by the UK Government as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
His book Heterodox International Political Economics, offers a number of different perspectives on understanding the global economy of the 21st century.
Indivisibility of a good: if actors believe that a certain good could not be divided but only controlled in its entirety they may go to war.
Grass roots private welfare: winning essays of the 1956 national competition of the Foundation for voluntary Welfare, New York University Press, New York 1957.
History Thomas Sargent and Neil Wallace wrote a 1981 paper arguing that unsustainable deficits eventually lead to the government having to print money to cover its debts leading to inflation that even higher interest rates would not be able to fix.
Just over the two decades before his provision in 1965, scholars started to extend the theoretical framework and communal or collective ownership-consumption arrangements were considered as well.
He was elected fellow of the Econometric Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2004 and 2017, respectively.
In economics, economic rent is any payment to the owner of a factor of production in excess of the costs needed to bring that factor into production.
Of China's sovereign funds, only the Silk Road Fund was capitalized with an explicit geo-economic mission (in the Silk Road Fund's case, supporting the BRI).
A government can provide information to its citizens on a particular issue, with hopes it affects their behaviour (Inform), or by appealing to their morality as a human or as a stakeholder in society (Implore).
86, however, introduced the so-called mandatory amendments, which must be complied with by the Executive up to a percentage ceiling established by the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO).
Vastly more funding is spent on natural science studies of climate change and considerable sums are also spent on studies of the impact of and adaptation to climate change.
In a World Bank blog post, its international importance for disaster risk management is described as: Digital public goods have the potential to transform the way disaster risk is managed while supporting innovation and collaboration globally.
The discussion on system governance addresses the so-called "control gap" in an interdependent world economy, where state capabilities may no longer match the scale of global challenges.
On 22 July 1952, the ICJ decided that it had no jurisdiction in this matter (Iran's original contention).
Thus, Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring implemented restrictions on the local population to prevent the Altreich and the army from falling short of food supplies.
See also Crony capitalism Political capital State capitalism Revolving door (politics) == References ==
For example, in road infrastructure, vehicles that are more fuel-efficient or fully electric contribute less to fuel tax revenues, which traditionally fund road maintenance.
(Hons) in Economics from UNISA, She then proceeded to the University of Cape Town where she obtained a Ph.D.
Steve Mannheimer, art & architecture critic for the Indianapolis Star and professor at Herron School of Art and Design wrote: "Visitors to Dow Gardens lose the smells and the sounds of the Midwest – burgers, fries and traffic - to find a vision of nature perfected.
According to this principle, one third of the total military forces involved should be available for operations, one third should be preparing for operations, and the final third, having been on operations, should be recuperating.
Historical precedents and legislative proposals In the more general category of hypothecation, there are already well-established precedents: they include the gasoline tax in the United States, which is dedicated to the funding of transportation infrastructure.
Some routes were closed during the 1950s to take account of changing transport patterns and to remove obvious route duplication.
— a discussion of the desired features of public–private dialogue mechanisms See also Forward Commitment Procurement Public-private partnership
Therefore, according to the IMF, the typically expected credit event was not officially triggered, the negative contingencies to private holders of state debt were increased, while the credibility of the sovereign-CDS market was undermined.
Congress passed this amendment on July 11, 1971, by a unanimous vote, and based on it, on July 16, 1971 law 17.450 was promulgated, and became effective immediately.
It returns as output a "mixture" - a vector p of real numbers in [0,1], one number for each candidate, such that the sum of numbers is 1.
Evolutionary theories Biological and evolutionary approaches provide useful complementary insights into decision-making in social dilemmas.
Career Ingrid was previously the Chair of the Employment Conditions Commission which makes sectoral recommendations in sectors in which collective bargaining is weak (e.g.
Media Media transparency is the concept of determining how and why information is conveyed through various means.
The most important thing is the activities of private industries and citizens will be interfered by government regulation.
The mandatory nature of some DPI systems, where refusal results in exclusion from essential services, raises questions about whether consent can be freely given when the alternative is denial of food rations, banking, or healthcare.
It satisfies strong SD-strategyproofness, strong SD-participation, and population consistency, but not any form of efficiency, or any other consistency.
Jin Zeng estimates the numbers were 56.4% in 1995 and 32.8% in 2003, while other estimates are higher.
Thus, the state assumes that the family covers certain services (such as childcare or care for the elderly), which in other models would be covered by the state.
Definitions Mathematically, social marginal cost is the sum of private marginal cost and the external costs.
Likewise, the socialist planned economies of the former Soviet Union and Eastern bloc featured very little income redistribution because private capital and land income were restricted as most enterprises were state ownership and wage rates were set by central planners.
She consults regularly for various South African government departments and international organizations such as the World Bank, the ILO and the OECD.
In economics, these indirect costs which lead to inefficiencies in the market and result in a difference between the private costs and the social costs are called externalities.
The problematic perception of climate change as simply a "global" issue: Climate change initiatives and governance approaches have tended to be driven from a global scale.
Mosaddegh had sought to audit the documents of AIOC, in order to verify that AIOC was paying the contracted royalties to Iran, and to limit the company's control over Iranian oil reserves.
The Journal of Political Economy is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the University of Chicago Press.
She advised the South African Minister of Labour on working conditions and minimum wages from 2008 to 2014.
This force structure ensures that they will always have at least one ballistic missile boat on patrol at any one time.
$5 million grant to Michigan Technological University to renovate their Chemical Sciences and Engineering Building.
From the rapporteur: proposed by the budget rapporteur, generally to meet interests negotiated between Congress and the federal government.
Since 2002, the Department of Homeland Security has provided Port Security Grants to ports within the United States, to build fireboats.
Hollis Godfrey, civil engineer (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), president of the Drexel Institute; and Julius Rosenwald (Chicago, Illinois), president of Sears, Roebuck & Co.
Government Construction Contracting Agency (FSR) (Icelandic: Framkvæmdasýsla ríkisins) is an independent government agency responsible for managing public works in Iceland on behalf of the government.
He was granted tenure and associate professorship in 1997 but left for his current position at Cornell University the following year.
The phrase is sometimes related to the term class warfare, where the redistribution is alleged to counteract harm caused by high-income earners and the wealthy through means such as unfairness and discrimination.
These amendments are more controversial, due to their lack of transparency and their connection to the so-called "secret budget".
He left the World Bank to become president of Maastricht University in February 2003 until February 2011.
They also take the form of written rules and regulations of city government departments: the police, fire, street repair, or building inspection.
The firm supports science-driven companies moving with urgency throughout their entire life cycle, from seed to scale.
In response to this recommendation, the Governments of Norway and Sierra Leone, UNICEF and iSPIRT formally initiated the Digital Public Goods Alliance in late 2019 as a follow-up to the High-level Panel.
Technology In the computer software world, open source software concerns the creation of software, to which access to the underlying source code is freely available.
The idea of government failure is associated with the policy argument that, even if particular markets may not meet the standard conditions of perfect competition required to ensure social optimality, government intervention may make matters worse rather than better.
The firm was founded out of Breakout Labs, a program of the Thiel Foundation (a philanthropic organization created by Peter Thiel).
The nitrate producers, who wanted to keep control over production volume and costs, favored a new tax on exports depending on the international price.
Previously, the term used to broadly denote any kind of private-sector participation in an existing government program, such as, for example, family planning, or health care.
Civil engineers address these fundamental economic problems using specialized engineering economics knowledge as a framework for continuously "...
In the investment banking sector, particularly in India, devolvement is a process whereby if an investment issue is undersubscribed, an underwriter is required to subscribe to the remaining shares.
JPE Micro and JPE Macro In 2023, University of Chicago Press announced the establishment of Journal of Political Economy Microeconomics (JPE Micro) and Journal of Political Economy Macroeconomics (JPE Macro), two new journals that are vertically integrated with the Journal of Political Economy.
Buchanan developed club theory (the study of club goods in economics) in his 1965 paper, "An Economic Theory of Clubs".
Critics also say that because block grants are decentralized, it is more challenging to "measure block grant performance and to hold state and local government officials accountable for their decisions".
Enforcement mechanisms co-determine natural resource governance outcomes and pollution-related policies may require proper enforcement mechanisms (and often substitutes) to have a positive effect.
This list of countries by Global Militarization Index is based on the 2022 Global Militarization Index of the Bonn International Center for Conversion.
In 2021, Breakout Labs formerly closed, having provided 50 science focused grants in the program’s 10 year span.
Political economists are interested in capitalism as it is shapes production and distribution, and reveals power relations embedded in society.
Specific mechanisms implementing its control of the commanding heights in these areas include public property rights, pervasive administrative involvement, and Communist Party supervision of senior managers.
Law and Language on The Making of Tax Laws and Words and context – with Legal Semiotics: Fourth edition.
Another problem that Rostow's work has is that it considers mostly large countries: countries with a large population (Japan), with natural resources available at just the right time in its history (Coal in Northern European countries), or with a large land mass (Argentina).
Despite its relatively brief existence, the WIB was a major step in the development of national planning and government-business cooperation in the United States, and its precedents —like the National Recovery Administration— were influential during the New Deal and World War II.
If subset W is chosen, then each agent i enjoys a utility of Vi(W); this formalizes the fact that W - once chosen - is a public good.
It oversees a number of sovereign funds that invest part of China's foreign exchange reserves in investment vehicles including infrastructure projects, real estate, private equity, and strategic resources.
Dimension manipulation can either expand a decision-making space by reconfiguring acceptable topics of debate and policy alternatives, or shrink dimensions by eliminating certain topics or alternatives.
Stephen Thomas Redvers Coate is a British-American economist and currently Kiplinger Professor of Public Policy at Cornell University.
A further announcement was made on 17 October 2020 of an additional £76 million between a further 588 organisations.
This counterintuitive insight—that the initial imposition of legal entitlement is irrelevant because the parties will eventually reach the same result—is Coase's invariance thesis.
Training and education in municipal treasury APTUSC has technical and professional committees that deal with issues facing treasurers, their agencies and the public.
Cohen then identifies three central themes that have formed the basis for theoretical development in the field: systemic transformation, system governance, and the role of the state.
In the United States, long term capital gains (generally assets held more than 12 months) are taxed at the rate of 15%.
It is defined as a "guide for the economic selection among technically feasible alternatives for the purpose of a rational allocation of scarce resources." Its goal is to guide entities, private or public, that are confronted with the fundamental problem of economics.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India publishes guidelines and a recommended method of computation relating to the extent of the devolvement onto a particular underwriter in the case where there are multiple underwriters, or sub-underwriters.
Witteveen was elected as a Member of the House of Representatives after the election of 1963, he subsequently resigned as a Member of the Senate the same day he was installed as Member of the House of Representatives, taking office on 5 June 1963.
Accessed at [3] and revised through six editions with the last published in 1914 by Wellington's wife, Agnes Wellington.
The chapter on the state investigates its conceptual place in IPE, contrasting American state-centric approaches with the British school's broader institutional and social frameworks.
Principles of tax design, public policy and beyond: The ideas of James Mirrlees, 1936–2018 References External links James A.
This code also informs the public at large as to how the Association approaches matters involving ethics.
Since FOSS applications can be customized, users can add local language interfaces (localization), thereby expanding the availability of the software to more users in different regions and societies where those languages are spoken.
As a field, it seeks to explore the relationship that taxation constitutes between citizens and the state, including the cultural and historical factors that determine compliance with taxation.
Public workers tend to have lower wages when adjusting for education, although that difference is reduced when benefits and hours are included.
Anderson, special counsel on international affairs George Newell Armsby, member of the priorities committee Lewis R.
On 10 May 1940 Nazi Germany invaded the Netherlands and the government fled to London to escape the German occupation.
Zoltán Pogátsa (Hungarian: [ˈzoltaːn ˈpoɡaːt͡ʃɒ]; born 1974) is a Hungarian political economist and lecturer at the University of West Hungary, focusing on the economics of European integration.
A member shall uphold the letter and spirit of the law and report violations of the law to the appropriate authorities.
But if he puts more cattle on a common, the food which they consume forms a deduction which is shared between all the cattle, as well that of others as his own, in proportion to their number, and only a small part of it is taken from his own cattle".
These goods are generally free cultural works that are intended to contribute to sustainable national and international digital development.
Although this could seem as a form of industrial policy, PPD emphasize local ownership and leadership, encourage firms to cooperate and identify areas for sector development.
Background In October 2005, the National Academies of Science released a report that revealed how U.S.
The Canadian social safety net covers a broad spectrum of programs, and because Canada is a federation, many are run by the provinces.
At the same time, Greek sovereign bonds held by the ECB and other EU central banks as a result of the SMP Programme (and ANFAs operations) were excluded from the PSI step through a secretly agreed swap agreement between the ECB and the Hellenic Republic in February 2012.
Borrowing was particularly high in the housing market and deregulation in the financial sector made it possible to extend lending in sub-prime mortgages.
In real terms, a government can also inflate away the debt: if it causes or allows high inflation, the real amount it must repay will be smaller.
In labor economics The generalization of the concept of rent to include opportunity cost has highlighted the role of political barriers in creating and privatizing rents.
He has published six books and numerous professional and media articles, and is a regular commentator in Hungarian and international media on issues related to European integration and economic development.
British Rail also started development of the world's first tilting train – the Advanced Passenger Train (APT).
This caveat was however neglected, and the army was fed and paid entirely by contributions and war loot.
The fund aims to financially support cultural organisations in England (such as theatres, museums, and music venues) which had become financially unviable as a result of national and local restrictions.
See also California Municipal Treasurers Association (CMTA) GASB Public Finance State Government State Treasurer United States Department of the Treasury References External links California Municipal Treasurers Association Association of Public Treasurers of the United States and Canada
The whole spectrum would cover purely private activities on one side and purely public or collectivized activities on the other side.
If a conscientious objector who had been unwilling to pay taxes started to pay into a "peace tax fund", this would only mean more money for the government to spend, and the likely result of that is more money for the military.
By the 2020s, thinkers and policymakers began explicitly using the infrastructure analogy, framing online services as critical infrastructure that should be broadly accessible, akin to public roads.
Political capitalism or Politically oriented capitalism is a concept introduced by Max Weber in his 1921 book Economy and Society to describe monetary profit-making through non-market means.
Regulation: Policies or laws which are offered by the government to control every activity, especially in the market and trading flow.
See also Scorched earth, a strategy designed to counter bellum se ipsum alet Notes Sources References === Bibliography ===
The expressions "white elephant" and "gift of a white elephant" came into common use in the middle of the nineteenth century.
Necessity Consider a setting in which all agents have a type-contingent utility function u ( x , t , θ ) {\displaystyle u(x,t,\theta )} .
Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in EBSCO, ProQuest, EconLit, Research Papers in Economics, Current Contents/Social & Behavioral Sciences, and the Social Sciences Citation Index.
Tax cuts and deficit spending, he argues, make the cost of government appear to be cheaper than it otherwise would be.
The nationalization of the Iranian oil industry (Persian: نهضت ملی شدن صنعت نفت ایران) resulted from a movement in the Iranian parliament (Majlis) to seize control of Iran's oil industry, which had been run by private companies, largely controlled by foreign interests.
Description One person, called the "principal", would like to condition his behavior on information privately known to the players of a game.
Notable papers Among the most influential papers that appeared in the Journal of Political Economy are: "The Economics of Exhaustible Resources", by Harold Hotelling; Vol.
Here renters, who do not pay local property taxes directly, may vote for an expansion of local government services.
Structure FSR operates under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, which is responsible for public works in Iceland.
Although Symons and Page observe that university administrators had not adopted these reasonable employment practices, the third volume of their Report, like the first two, includes little discussion of this matter.
The three major forms of unearned income based on property ownership are rent, received from the ownership of natural resources; interest, received by virtue of owning financial assets; and profit, received from the ownership of capital equipment.
Participation - abstaining from participation does not lead to a mixture that is better for the voter.
communistic societies, but seems to innately recognize that modernization can be achieved in different ways in different types of economies.
Example countries Countries which have been described as practising economic conscription include the United States and the United Kingdom.
Ingrid Woolard is a Professor of Economics and Executive Dean of the University of Sussex Business School.
As an example, the report cited that out of the 120 chemical plants built around the world worth $1 billion or more, one was constructed in the United States but 50 were in China.
Martin (Chicago, Illinois), a distinguished surgeon who founded the American College of Surgeons; Howard E.
PPD is a platform for interaction between state and private sector, and is hence an organization (which can be very informal or very institutionalized).
Application in United States contract and tort law The Coase theorem has been used by jurists and legal scholars in the analysis and resolution of disputes involving both contract law and tort law.
According to deterrence theory, the best strategy to take in conflict is to show signs of strength and willingness to use force if necessary.
Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) refers to digital systems and platforms that enable the delivery of services, facilitate data exchange, and support digital governance across various sectors.
2: Rostow is mechanical in the sense that the underlying motor of change is not disclosed and therefore the stages become little more than a classificatory system based on data from developed countries.
Barnum's experience with an elephant named Toung Taloung that he billed as the "Sacred White Elephant of Burma".
Historical background The term derives from the sacred white elephants kept by Southeast Asian monarchs in Burma, Thailand (Siam), Laos and Cambodia.
Also known as Title VI grants, because the program is formally established in Title VI, Part A, § 602 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (Title VI was originally authorized as Title VI of the National Defense Education Act of 1958 as a response to the launch of Sputnik and the U.S.
He summarised his inquiries into the Greek crisis in a book entitled The Political Economy of the Greek Crisis.
Shaw appointed temporary chairs for each state committee in order to coordinate the upcoming war work.
The foundation's stated purpose is “for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes for the public benefaction of the inhabitants of the said City of Midland and of the people of the State of Michigan”.
In addition to carrying firefighting equipment, these vessels are equipped to help counter nuclear fallout, chemical weapons and biological weapons.
The approach was revived at Copenhagen, and gained further prominence with the 2015 Paris Agreement, though pledges came to be called nationally determined contributions (NDCs).
These funds can use equity participation to become direct participants in the market, and provide capital to companies in the industries prioritized by the state." China's sovereign funds have developed to become important instruments of Chinese financial statecraft.
These large mines were mainly self-contained and self-sustaining settlements with their own cities to house their workers, their own water and electrical plants, their own schools, stores, railways, and even in certain cases their own police forces.
Lovett, President of Union Pacific Railroad Hugh Frayne, of the American Federation of Labor and former president of the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO Army Brigadier General Palmer E.
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2020 impact factor of 9.103, ranking it 4/376 journals in the category "Economics".
This first phase included only grassroots music venues such as Birmingham's Sunflower Lounge, Brighton's Green Door Store and Manchester's Gorilla.
He has served a range of academic journals in an editorial capacity, such as the Journal of Public Economics, the American Economic Review and the Quarterly Journal of Economics.
A practical example of transparency is also when a cashier makes changes after a point of sale; they offer a transaction record of the items purchased (e.g., a receipt) as well as counting out the customer's change.
However, in mechanism design, the principal does have one advantage: He may design a game whose rules influence others to act the way he would like.
In Wales, it has been claimed by Plaid Cymru that "the army is targeting schools in some of the poorest areas of Wales to find new recruits".
In the Southern Region the already extensive third rail system was to be extended to the Kent Coast.
The second option for the Jones could be to impose a cost on the Smith family if they want to continue to get utility from their pear trees.
In China a full 78.3% of the urban labor force were employed in the public sector by 1978, the year the Chinese economic reform was launched, after which the rates dropped.
Joseph Schumpeter's 1918 work "The Crisis of the Tax State" is a founding text of fiscal sociology, though Schumpeter himself borrowed the term from the Austrian sociologist Rudolf Goldscheid's 1917 Staatssozialismus oder Staatskapitalismus ("State Socialism or State Capitalism").
considered expensive but without equivalent utility or value relative to its capital (acquisition) and/or operational (maintenance) costs.
The phrase can be traced back to Vladimir Lenin's defense of the New Economic Policy (NEP), which saw market-oriented reforms while the state retained control of the commanding heights.
They argue that the legislative proposals that have been proposed so far that would legalize COMT actually would have the paradoxical effect of encouraging more conscientious objectors to pay for more war than before.
When a government's meetings are open to the press and the public, its budgets may be reviewed by anyone, and its laws and decisions are open to discussion, it is seen as transparent.
Risks of PPD PPD creates many opportunities, but if the communication between government and society is weak, it also creates many risks.
While rhetoric focuses on persuading others to change their preferences, heresthetic involves restructuring the political environment to achieve victory using opponents' existing preferences.
History Relationship to climate science In the scientific literature, there is an overwhelming consensus that global surface temperatures have increased in recent decades and that the trend is caused primarily by human-induced emissions of greenhouse gases.
Healthcare and education In service economies, where the relative importance of industry has decreased, Arnold Kling posited in 2011 that healthcare and education are the new commanding heights.
The difference is that in multiwinner voting the candidates are discrete, whereas in cake-sharing the cake is continuous; effectively, there is a continuum of different candidates.
Background The definition of capitalism as an economic system based on monetary profit-making rather than a subsistence economy is shared by Max Weber and Fernand Braudel.
James Mirrlees at the Mathematics Genealogy Project James Mirrlees on Nobelprize.org including the Prize Lecture 9 December 1996 Information and Incentives: The Economics of Carrots and Sticks
Cost-cutting as a cause of cost-shifting Cost-shifting is a situation where one group of payers overpays costs for a good or a service for another group, which in total pays less than the first one.
Overview In the broader economics tradition, economic rent is distinct from producer surplus or normal profit, both of which are theorized to involve productive human action.
Claim and counter-claim The term is usually used in a pejorative sense, with critics claiming that the government could create conditions where joining the armed forces would not be seen as an attractive career choice, but choose not to in order to avoid resourcing problems for their armed forces.
Structure The council consisted of the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Labor.
tax system causes fiscal illusion and results in greater public expenditure than would be the case in an idealized system in which everyone is aware in detail of what their share of the costs of government is.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency, one of the agencies under DHS, provided $100 million worth of grants in 2015.
The association conducts workshops to provide training and education on investments, cash management, bond sales, management skills, communications, and legislation.
The institution is intended to improve efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and quality in the execution of government projects.
Advanced Passenger Train: The official illustrated account of British Rail's revolutionary new 155mph train.
Because there is a low presence of private insured patience, rural hospitals become dependent on these programs.
If a government can respect the right of a person not to participate directly in making war, can it also respect the right of the person to avoid this indirect participation?
In order to receive his preferred outcome, the MP seeks for the referendum votes to be held in a sequence in which Scottish independence is determined first, and then UK withdrawal from the EU.
Peru, allied with Bolivia under the secret treaty, pretended to mediate, but as the Chilean government asked Peru to declare its neutrality, Peru tried to delay negotiations.
Ultimately, such self-serving behavior detracts from addressing critical societal issues, leaving citizens disillusioned and the country vulnerable.
Reception of the motions at Carleton The memorandum and motions presented by the two men were greeted with general hostility at the C.U.A.S.A.
Department of Education Notes References External links National Resource Centers Program (official website)
Riker's focus is on how policy-makers affect the ordering of items on the political agenda, and how that ordering can be manipulated.
In many countries, medication is provided in this manner: the government reimburses part of the medication's price.
A New Investigator Award is a type of funding grant awarded to "early career" academics in the sciences.
The increase in productivity due to mechanization lowers the production costs and thus also the real prices of commodities.
The NRC grants are awarded on a quadrennial schedule, through a competition overseen by the Office of International and Foreign Language Education (formerly the International Education Programs Service) within the Department of Education.
1975 National Enterprise Board - a State holding company for full or partial ownership of industrial undertakings 1976 British Leyland Motor Corporation - became British Leyland upon nationalization under the National Enterprise Board.
In a neoclassical framework, it may mean income not attributable to the normal return to a factor of production.
Moreover, if small and medium enterprises are not included in the dialogue, PPD can be dominated by big business and by capital city-based businesses, being monopolized by powerful lobbies to block reforms and to maintain existing status quo.
According to Thomas Helbing at the International Monetary Fund, government intervention might be most optimal in situations where one party might have undue bargaining power compared to the other party.
Here Ricardo famously analysed the impact of the adoption of machinery on the different classes of society, revising his earlier view that mechanization could be expected to be of benefit to each of the classes of the society.
Regulatory framework in India In India, devolvement arises within the broader underwriting framework regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).
He argues that Fearon's model of conflict initiation only points to necessary conditions for war, not sufficient conditions.
See also Categorical grant New Federalism, a political tendency in the United States which favors block grants Explanatory notes == References ==
FTPL focuses on the confidence the government will not default on its debts, but rather 'inflate away' debts.
Regardless of whether the book achieved that goal, it secured, according to Ronald Max Hartwell, Ricardo's position among the great classical economists Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus, John Stuart Mill, and Karl Marx.
These measures were self-imposed by the circle's nobility, and the local authorities were given the task of their implementation.
Classics like John Stuart Mill were also concerned about monopolies, both natural monopolies and artificial ones, and didn't consider their incomes entirely earned.
Journalism and Media Because journalism/news media is the core to a functioning democratic society, PEC works towards the goal of "healthy journalism".
In theory, the creation of a semi-periphery category has added sociological and historical layers to previous developmental theories but still has similar, inherently capitalist, foundations.
Some scientists, politicians, and activist say that not enough was done at this summit and that we will still reach that 1.5 degree tipping point.
Jozef Marie Mathias "Jo" Ritzen (born 3 October 1945) is a retired Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA) and economist.
Definition matrix Where club goods are found Examples of club goods include cinemas, cable television, software as a service, access to copyrighted works, and the services provided by social or religious clubs to their members.
When students were trading cash-equivalent tokens, the negotiations resulted in the students who would receive the most cash from a token (as told by the researchers) holding the tokens, as would be predicted by the Coase theorem.
Over ten years, the Initiative planned to commit $50 billion to increase funding for research and $86 billion for R&D tax incentives.
It suggests that currency is like a stock in a government and if the government has structural deficit then the 'stock' loses value.
Its financial partners include Founders Fund, Formation 8, OATV, Lux Capital, Khosla Ventures among others.
If the preferences are strict, this yields a mixture in which the weight of each alternative is exactly proportional to the number of voters who rank it first.
Note that consistency properties depend only on the rankings of individual alternatives - they do not require ranking of mixtures.
Damon Buffini was announced as the chair of the Culture Recovery Board, the body tasked with managing the fund.
It guarantees to each agent a normalized utility of exactly b/[c*n - b*n + b)] = 1 / [n*(c/b-1) + 1)].
The movement to nationalize the oil industry was the reaction to the following concessions made by Iran to foreign powers: the 1872 Reuter concession, the 1901 D'Arcy Concession, the 1933 agreement between the Iranian government and AIOC, and the 1949 Gas-Gulshaiyan Supplemental Oil Agreement.
Take the national dividend, for example; to maximize the national dividend, it is required that one set marginal social costs and marginal social benefits equal to each other.
Japan Social welfare, assistance for the ill or otherwise disabled and for the old, has long been provided in Japan by both the government and private companies.
Further, modern critical theorists like Christian Fuchs have critiqued new media from a capitalist-critical perspective, creating new critical PEC theories to attempt to explain some of the failings of new media.
United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, these units often recruit through the use of "careers fairs" in areas of high unemployment.
The formal models focused on the causes of war as well as the ends, and defined them as bargaining interactions as well.
Examples Economic crowding out Crowding out is when the government over corrects the market failure leading to the displacement of the private sector investment.
During 2023, gifts from the foundation exceeded $45 million and in their 88-year history, $682,920,802 has been disbursed.
During that period, Maastricht University grew to become one of the leading international teaching and research universities, with almost half of its students coming from abroad and problem-based learning as the primary educational method.
Thus, fiscal discipline, meaning a balanced budget over the course of the economic cycle is important to control inflation.
Vietnam According to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in 1980, land ownership of farmers disappeared, the State owned land across the country and people have the right to temporary use of land, as a slow result of the Land reform in North Vietnam from 1953 to 1956.
The most common justified representation axioms are: Proportional Justified Representation (PJR): for every real L>0, in every L-cohesive group, the length of (union Ai) cap W is at least L.
The problem in real life is that nobody knows ex ante the most valued use of a resource, and also that there exist costs involving the reallocation of resources by government.
Before 2015, amendments were not mandatory, and the Executive could ignore the allocation given by parliamentarians.
Cost-shifting is an economic situation where one individual, group, or government underpays for a service, resulting in another individual, group, or government overpaying for a service (shifting compared to the expected burden).
Another option, used in the Nordic countries, is to establish a corporation but keep ownership or voting power essentially in the hands of the government.
to pay the Peruvian debt certificates (£4 million) and create a state company to manage the production and marketing of nitrate; or to return the property to the holder of nitrate certificates and let them restart the business.
Early examples of DPI date back to foundational technologies like the Internet and GPS, which were publicly funded and made universally available.
Journals The Engineering Economist - published jointly by the Engineering Economy Division of the American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE) and the Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE).
Some examples of industries considered to be part of the commanding heights include public utilities, natural resources, and sectors relating to both foreign trade and domestic trade.
See also Project Cybersyn Military dictatorship of Chile Miracle of Chile References Bibliography Millán, Augusto (1999).
This is a list of countries by public sector size, calculated as the number of public sector employees as a percentage of the total workforce.
In 1996, HHS and education moved towards "nationalizing trends", there was an attempt made towards devolution of welfare policy.
In economics, the literature around public goods dilemmas refers to the phenomenon as the free-rider problem.
Full nationalisation (100%): the Compagnie Générale d'Electricité, the Compagnie Générale de Constructions Téléphoniques, Pechiney-Ugine-Kuhlmann, Rhône-Poulenc, Saint-Gobain-Pont-à-Mousson, Thompson-Brandt.
In this case, renters have a material interest in land tax increases used to fund local services or infrastructure, and their agitation for such cannot be considered a case of fiscal illusion.
He received his PhD in 1947 with the dissertation Loonhoogte en werkgelegenheid (Height of wages and employment).
Criticism of the model 1: Rostow is historical in the sense that the result is known at the outset and is derived from the historical geography of a developed, bureaucratic society.
Sovereign funds of China are mechanisms through which the Chinese state acts as a market participant with the goals of supporting key domestic economic sectors, advancing strategic interests internationally, and diversifying its foreign exchange reserves.
Wagner, Of Public Interest, Volume 3, Number 8, June 2001 "Public Choice and the Diffusion of Classic Italian Public Finance," by Richard E.
If not, then it is necessary to check whether the monotonicity constraint (see sufficiency, above) is satisfied everywhere along the allocation and fee schedules.
As a result of economies of scale, investment ratios in club goods may eventually increase, since the relative price decreases when, in this example, a larger family consumes a club good.
Income tax rates rise with reported income, beginning at 10% for annual income over Costa Rican colón 41,112,000.
State Administration of Foreign Exchange SAFE is the administrative unit which handles foreign exchange management for the People's Bank of China.
In practice, devolvement occurs when the level of subscription falls below the amount committed under the underwriting arrangement, requiring the underwriter to subscribe to the unsubscribed portion of the issue.
Lenin used the military metaphor to justify NEP, proposing that free markets could be permitted so as long as the government retained control of certain commanding heights like heavy industry and transport.
For example, agents may vote against their own interest in the short-term to secure a better long-term position.
Her motto was: "Let service be our Motto and Good Deeds Our Badge." In 1974 the HHAGADF purchased the 3.4-acre (1.4 ha) property south of The Pines, Herbert Dow's original family home.
The Religious Freedom Peace Tax Fund Act in the United States, for instance, would give the government more tax revenue and would not change how much or how high a percentage of this money was spent on the military.
The purpose of the campaign was to ensure that Carleton, as an employer, treated Canadian citizens equitably and that Canadians would remain or become at least a two-thirds majority of the teaching staff.
However, compared to other welfare states, it has relatively low levels of social spending and may rely more on private sector solutions to address social welfare issues.
They are marked by above average land mass, as exemplified by Argentina, China, India, Brazil, Mexico, Indonesia, and Iran.
Robert Brenner and Dylan Riley have characterized the post-1990 economy of United States as political capitalism, where raw 'political power' rather than 'productive investment' is the "key determinant of rate of return".
Economic rent is viewed as unearned revenue while economic profit is a narrower term describing surplus income earned by choosing between risk-adjusted alternatives.
Limitations The applicability of the bargaining model is limited by numerous factors, including: Cognitive factors: new information does not lead actors to change their beliefs or behaviors in a consistent way Cost-benefit calculations: how do actors determine which costs and benefits to consider?
Revenue The major sources of revenue are income taxes, indirect taxes, social security contributions and customs duties.
2008 On August 19, 2008, Chávez ordered the take-over of a cement plant owned and operated by Cemex, an international cement producer.
Semi-peripheral countries are tied into dynamic world systems that focus on the reliance of poor nations upon the wealthy, a concept known as the dependency theory.
At times of financial constraint, rather than increasing the total number of forces, one temptation of politicians is to attempt to increase available manpower by folding together the preparation and recuperation phases, creating a rule of halves.
To support DPGs for the long term, one of the key takeaways was around the importance of supporting ongoing collaborations.
The papers centred on asymmetric information, which determines the extent to which they should affect the optimal rate of saving in an economy.
The Büttner extraction method was boldly marketed claiming to be the world's best moka and coffee filter ("Der beste Mokka- und Kaffeefilter der Welt").
In 2006, Jura inaugurated the visitor's centre "JURAworld of Coffee" at the Niederbuchsiten headquarters.
Overview The jebena is most commonly used in the coffee ceremony of Ethiopia and Eritrea, where women serve coffee to their guests in small clay or ceramic pots.
The result is a coffee concentrate that is diluted with water or milk, and is sometimes served hot, but often served chilled, over ice, or blended with ice and other ingredients such as chocolate.
For immersion brewing methods, such as French press and vacuum brewing, extraction takes place slowly.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
History The company was founded by Italian businessman Sergio Zappella and Swiss inventor Arthur Schmed in 1981 as Sergio, Arthur e Compagnia.
Individuals using powdered non-dairy creamer in the ordinary amounts used in a cup of coffee do not face a risk of dust explosion.
Coffee consumption continued, with underground societies known as "coffee guilds" forming during prohibition periods.
The final round comprises the top scoring six baristas from the semi-finals round and takes place on the last day of the competition.
See also Coffee service Easy Serving Espresso Pod Caffitaly K-Cup T-Discs Melitta Senseo References External links Flavia official Canadian and Mexican site Flavia official United States site
The company initially focussed on ironing products, before expanding into coffee equipment with a focus on semi-automatic espresso machines, starting in 2002, under the management of the couple's four sons, Emanuele, Giorgio, Marco, and Mauro Epis; the latter is the current CEO of Lelit.
Her past medical expenses were $10,500; her anticipated future medical expenses were approximately $2,500; and her daughter's loss of income was approximately $5,000 for a total of approximately $18,000.
Gaseous emissions from roasting operations are typically ducted to a thermal oxidiser or thermal catalytic oxidiser following PM removal by a cyclone.
The word originates from Arabic: طاس, romanized: ṭās, from the Persian: طاس, romanized: ṭās, meaning cup or bowl.
Unlike the cold press (which functions similar to a French Press) which takes eight to twenty-four hours, a Cold Drip process only takes about two hours, with taste and consistency results similar to that of a cold press.
In operation, a sharp-pointed spout pierces the capsule and injects pressurised hot water, forcing the foil against a spiked plate which burst it inwards, letting the espresso flow out of the spout.
This detaches the gelatin cover, with the printed image, from the paper; this cover is then transferred to the mug.
Faema was to become synonymous with the post-war production boom in Italy, by actively pursuing technological innovation as the company's driving force.
This transfer of stock ownership resulted in the creation of a new business unit combining La Marzocco and Swiss super-automatic espresso machine manufacturer Eversys, which had been acquired by De'Longhi SpA in a process that started in 2017.
History and variants The principle of brewing coffee by using steam to force heated water through a bed of roasted, ground beans dates back to at least 1818, according to a patent published by Elard Römershausen for a very large machine.
This makes it useful for using grinds that wouldn't be optimal in the official method such as coarse grinds that might be used in a French press.
FAEMA (Italian acronym: Fabbrica Apparecchiature Elettromeccaniche e Affini) primarily engaged in the production of espresso machines, was founded in 1945 by Carlo Ernesto Valente, in Milan, Italy.
They are typically ceramic and accompanied by matching saucers, but some coffeehouses and china companies also produce brightly decorated varieties.
In 1974, Breville released the toasted sandwich maker, making the Breville brand a household name in Australia.
As the cold brew is poured into a cup, it is charged with nitrogen to give it a rich, creamy head of foam, similar to draft beer.
A dallah is typically richly ornamented, usually engraved with geometric patterns, stylized plants and flowers, love scenes from Persian Gulfic poetry, or set with other decorations, including semi-precious gemstones and ivory.
Coffee Joulies are small, stainless-steel capsules containing a phase-change material; the capsules were designed to be placed in a cup of coffee in order to cool coffee that is too hot then slowly release the heat to keep the coffee warm.
The tea- and coffeepots are small (one pint in a service for two, so called tête-à-tête, half a pint in a solitaire service for one), the cups and saucers are frequently also smaller than the ones in the regular sets.
The filter pot featured a through-glazed porcelain filter with triangularly-arranged slits with some air space below.
Fortune telling In divination and fortune-telling, the patterns of coffee grounds are used for predictions.
Typically, ristretto is half the volume of normale, and lungo is double to triple the normale volume.
Espresso brew pitchers are particularly used for layered latte macchiatos, which require careful pouring.
An Americano only differs from an espresso in strength – it is traditionally diluted after brewing to a strength below 1.5% (also resulting in the removal of crema).
Keurig needed sizeable venture capital; and after pitching to numerous potential investors, the partners finally obtained $50,000 from Minneapolis-based investor Food Fund in 1994, and later the Cambridge-based fund MDT Advisers contributed $1,000,000.
Construction The early tongs were scissor-like, occasionally in fancy shapes like storks with long beaks or puppets grabbing the sugar with their hands.
The Porzellanfabrik Friesland, founded in 1953 as part of the German Melitta group, and independent since 1991/1995, produced Melitta porcelain filters up to 2018.
The VertuoLine system was intended to expand Nespresso's product line to offer coffee closer to the American style of filtered coffee, and thus expand Nespresso's market share in North America.
At any point along the diagonal line plotted on the chart, extraction and strength are directly proportional.
It may have originated in 2013 at the craft coffee houses Cuvee Coffee in Austin, Texas, and Stumptown in Portland, Oregon.
Hot water is poured from a kettle or anything that can boil the water until the lower edge of the bag gets in contact with the surface of the coffee.
The coffee capsules consist of a plastic cylinder containing up to 7.5 grams (0.26 oz) of ground coffee that is vacuum-pressed and sealed by an aluminum cap.
Other decorations consist of painting the outside with different, bright, colours or traditional dot paintings.
Coffee-mate is a lactose-free coffee creamer manufactured by Nestlé, available in powdered, liquid and concentrated liquid forms.
The addition of sugar during the torrefacto roasting process increases the production of compounds with antioxidant properties.
Vitaperk LLC, often stylized VitaPerk, is a Michigan based, domestic limited liability company that produces and sells nutraceuticals and dietary supplements in the form of a fortified, non-dairy coffee additive.
By late 2023, De'Longhi S.p.A had purchased the majority of its parent company's shares in La Marzocco.
The thicker filter papers may also assist in removing more cafestol, a cholesterol-elevating compound found in coffee.
It was named after its manufacturer, Gottlob Widmann, although some early machines were delivered as "FK-1" (for filter coffee machine).
The heat source can be supplied by natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), electricity, or even wood.
In Cairo, Egypt, a similar ban was instituted in 1532, and the coffeehouses and warehouses containing coffee beans were sacked.
It also offers Lungo, medium roast capsules that produce a longer (higher proportion of water) espresso, and the Monoarabica line, single-origin Arabica beans from six countries: Brazil, Guatemala, Ethiopia, Colombia, Costa Rica, and India.
A jury found McDonald's liable for injuries suffered by a customer who spilled hot cup of coffee on herself, and awarded her in excess of $2.8 million ($6.1 million in 2025).
1900), the Kaffeeaufgußkanne Max Thürmer (1900), the Büttner-Kaffeemaschine (1926), the Melitta 401/402 (1930s) filter holders, the Morena Kaffeefilter (c.
The company employs over 450 people in offices in Europe and the United States, and has authorized dealers in over 100 countries worldwide.
The mug is then fired around 700–750 °C (1,290–1,380 °F; 970–1,020 K), which softens the top surface of the glaze, thereby embedding the image into it.
The sublimation point of caffeine is 352 °F (178 °C), about one hundred degrees lower than the typical very dark roast.
Patent disputes A European patent application with the aim "to protect an assembly of pad holder and pad", i.e.
Heat transfer through the bottom of the cup is small relative to heat lost through the top of the cup.
Bunn is the American distributor of the Tiger Super Automatic Espresso Machine, made by Thermoplan AG.
As Dickie is pulling a shot in extreme close-up, he remarks, "Now you’ll find out why Miss Sherwood always shows up for breakfast, Tom.
Walküre recommended to use coffea arabica, and either 16 g for the first two cups and 6 g for each further cup, or 8–10 g per cup in general.
Cow creamers Creamers in the shape of a cow with an opening or lid on its back for filling, known as cow creamers, originated in Holland, but became very popular in England, first with Dutch imports, then from about 1740 in saltglaze stoneware from the Staffordshire Potteries.
as the "midnight dust" characters threw into a campfire to make an explosive puff of smoke and sparks as they introduced the episode's story.
Spa, https://www.espressomadeinitaly.com/en/history-gallery-upside-down-percolation.php External links The Coffee FAQ brewing techniques: Neapolitan The Neapolitan Coffee Maker (2023-12-21) by James Hoffmann [15:34]
The Bell Beaker culture, is an important archaeological culture named after the distinctive inverted-bell pottery beaker cups it used, marking the beginning of the European Bronze Age from around 2800 BC.
In the early 1990s additional production facilities were established in Switzerland, and in 1994 their first fully automatic coffee machine was launched.
The company was founded by Dave Petrillo and Dave Jackson, mechanical engineers from Pennington, New Jersey.
With over 600,000 vending machines in operation worldwide it was considered one of the largest companies in the industry.
O'Neal's nephew, Herschel Duncan, developed the blend for the Maryland Club, which became one of the better known brands of the time and formed the Duncan Coffee Company.
The team decided to continue with production in the United States, rather than moving to Mexico, as was their initial plan.
The Fondazione Palazzo Coronini Cronberg Foundation of Gorizia has a Venetian sugar bowl of the Napoleonic period.
tea or coffee), cooling rate in a cup is typically dominated by evaporation, which occurs across the free surface in contact with the air.
In other drinks, an espresso cup or shot glass is a common alternative, which must be dumped rather than poured.
In 2008 Gaillard launched a company that sold biodegradable capsules for Nespresso machines, competing with Nespresso.
La Pavoni had a technological and functional appeal but, as a small steam engine, also had a nostalgic charm.
The word Nespresso is a portmanteau of "Nestlé" and "Espresso", a naming technique used by other Nestlé brands such as (Nescafé, BabyNes, Nesquik).
Especially in East Asia disposable single serve drip coffee bags are common way to prepare drip coffee.
A sugar bowl is a small bowl designed for holding sugar or sugar cubes, to be served with tea or coffee in the Western tradition, that is an integral part of a tea set.
More recent units can store fresh milk in a separate internal container, instead of relying on powder.
See also Bialetti De'Longhi FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Rancilio Saeco References External links Official website The Benefits of an E61 Group Head
Torrefacto refers to a particular process of roasting coffee beans, common in Spain, Paraguay, Portugal, Mexico, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Uruguay and Argentina.
Brewing coffee Coffee is brewed by first folding the paper filter into shape by using the folded side with a printed number 3, where the pour spout is located and placing it into the neck of the flask.
A variation, coffee bags, were developed to provide the convenience of instant coffee but maintain the flavor of brewed coffee.
sugar bows with highly decorative handles appear in 1750s (Shlosberg says the displacement started in the early 1770s) for a short time; sugar tongs with more plain designs appeared in the 18th century and gradually evolved into "bold, bad design" of the 19th century.
VitaPerk's powdered supplement formula contains 15 vitamins and minerals: History The concept for VitaPerk's powdered coffee supplement began in January 2010 as an attempted convergence of the coffee and nutritional supplement industries.
FLAVIA markets several different machines, such as large coin-operated machines and small portable machines designed for home use.
The hot water hits the underside of the lid, and flows out and over the inner lid of the coffee basket.
This gradually expanded, helped by the popularity of American-style bars which permitted coffee served standing rather than sitting, and by World War I, when young Italian men who were given coffee as rations took up a daily habit.
Ingredients To replicate the mouthfeel of milk fats, nondairy creamers often contain hydrogenated vegetable oils, although nonfat nondairy creamers/whiteners also exist.
The benefit of the pre-packed coffee filter rings was two-fold: First, because the amount of coffee contained in the rings was pre-measured, it negated the need to measure each scoop and then place it in the metal percolator basket.
The advisability, however, of consuming instant coffee mixed with non-dairy creamer and sugar daily is slowly coming into question, with some manufacturers now taking the sugar out of the mixture, and marketing the 2-in-1 mixture as sugar-free white coffee.
Bunn also provides specialty foods for order or pick-up at Pease's Stores, including steaks, soups, and snacks.
It is commonly used in the coffee tradition of the Arabian Peninsula and of the Bedouins, and to a lesser extend in the Levant and North Africa.
In some markets, Tassimo has entered into partnerships with third parties to market T-Discs from non-Kraft and non-JDE brands.
Producers of the coffee beans argue that the process may improve coffee through two mechanisms: selection, where civets choose to eat only certain cherries; and digestion, where biological or chemical mechanisms in the animals' digestive tracts alter the composition of the coffee cherries.
History The napoletana was invented in 1819 by Jean-Louis Morize, a tinsmith and lampmaker from Paris, France.
Ownership Maas is majority owned by the Miko Group, a Belgian stock exchange listed specialist in coffee service.
Coffee cup sleeves, also known as coffee sleeves, are roughly cylindrical sleeves that fit tightly over handle-less paper coffee cups to insulate the drinker's hands from hot coffee.
Melitta continued to develop new techniques to improve the shape, performance, material and production process of its filter systems.
They have acted as the main or sole sponsor of numerous cycling teams for many years, but also as co-sponsor.
By 1919, he had established his own metal and machine workshop in Crusinallo (in his native Piedmont) to make aluminium products: this was the foundation of the Bialetti company.
In addition, the espresso method of extraction yielded higher antioxidant activity than other brewing methods.
The coffee sleeve was invented in 1991 by Jay Sorensen and patented in 1995 (under the trademarked name Java Jacket), and are now commonly utilized by coffee houses and other vendors that sell hot beverages dispensed in disposable paper cups.
Lance Hedrick, conversely, described the Lelit Mara X as the 'best value heat-exchanger' machine in April 2023, and called the Lelit Elizabeth as the 'best value dual-boiler' espresso machine in May 2025, introducing the Elizabeth as "one of the best kept secrets" in espresso.
Caffeine is extracted early in the brewing process, so longer extraction does not result in significantly more caffeinated coffee.
Notable sugar bowls Gustav IV Adolf of Sweden presented a pair of silver sugar bowls to Johan Sederholm, his godfather, in 1796.
This means that an extraction yield of 20% can be obtained by brewing 18 grams of coffee, resulting a 36-gram final beverage with a t {\displaystyle t} of 10%.
In the 1930s, Melitta revised the original filter, tapering it into the shape of a cone and adding ribs.
Variations In Bulgaria, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Czechia, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, Slovakia and Slovenia, the cezve is a long-necked coffee pot.
A dallah (Arabic: دَلَّة), also known as bakraj (Arabic: بَكْرَج), is a traditional Arabic coffee pot used for centuries to brew and serve qahwa, a spicy, bitter coffee traditionally served during feasts like Eid al-Fitr and made through a multi-step ritual.
In the US and UK, customers can provide their filled bags to the same postman who delivers their order of Nespresso capsules.
The company sells a coffee pod brewer system similar to Keurig K-Cups, and makes various home and domestic coffee makers under the Speed Brew and Heat N' Brew families.
See also De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Lelit Rancilio Saeco List of Italian companies References External links Official website Bialetti NZ
In the 1970s many machines followed the principle of drip coffee, but the Wigomat remained a competitor: "The people at Zabar's tell us that their Wigomat Coffee Maker is one of the best of the currently popular instant-drip coffee makers" wrote a New York-based magazine in 1975.
See also Adhesion Coandă effect Spout (teapot) Stall (fluid dynamics) References Further reading "Tropfenfangrinne an der Innenseite der Ausgussschnauze von Gefaessen, insbesondere Kannen fuer Kaffee, Tee usw." (in German).
European porcelain manufacturers encouraged the development of different sizes of cup, and shapes of pot, for tea and coffee services.
In the first two cases, sheets of the material in question were softened in hot water and then clamped in a mold to create the required shape.
The cabaret services originated in France, where the tea drinking was not ritualized, and thus small-scale arrangements for one or two were appropriate.
The modern dallah is a more typically practical vessel, and even automatic dallahs and Thermos dallahs are available to the modern coffee drinker.
Application of an equal amount of horse manure at the same time as the coffee grounds has been shown to nearly eliminate negative effects of fresh used coffee grounds.
The company also manufactured Europiccolas that were branded and sold as the first Olympia Cremina home espresso machines.
The cabaret services characteristically utilized unusual designs and extensive decorations, this "jewel-like" appearance hints at marketing oriented towards ladies.
Usually stainless steel will be used for the inner wall while outer wall can be stainless steel, plastic, or even embedded with other materials.
Generally, the upper filter disc is retained on the bottom of the upper chamber by the rubber gasket, which acts as a flexible internal circlip; this filter disc prevents coffee grounds from moving up the spout of the upper chamber.
Adding water to a drink after brewing changes strength but not yield (yield is determined by the amount of water initially present during brewing).
By 2020, Starbucks offered the beverage at more than half of its locations across the United States, making it a staple menu item.
The exact nutritional values may vary depending on the roast level, brewing method, and whether additives such as sugar or milk are included.
It is considered a staple household object in Ethiopia, with decorations and designs being used to represent social status.
They also presented the jury with expert testimony that 190 °F (88 °C) coffee may produce third-degree burns (where skin grafting is necessary) in about three seconds and 180 °F (82 °C) coffee may produce such burns in about 12 to 15 seconds.
Techniques such as silk screen printing or decals are used to apply decorations such as logos or images and fan art, which are fired onto the mug to ensure permanence.
Six years later, in 1958, the Carnation Company developed a product that easily dissolved in hot liquid because it replaced most of the milk fat with vegetable oil, and reduced the milk protein.
See also Single-serve coffee container References External links A Modo Mio Lavazza: a casa come al bar
Many burr grinders, including almost all domestic versions, are unable to achieve the extremely fine grind required for the preparation of Greek coffee; traditional Greek hand grinders are an exception.
Not all brands are available in all markets (for example, Kraft-owned Nabob T-Discs are only available in Canada, while JDE-owned Kenco T-Discs are available in the British Isles).
Unlike newer capsules and pods, this system consists of a single-use drip coffee filter placed over the cup.
Bialetti is an Italian brand of coffee machines, cookware, and small kitchen appliances founded by Alfonso Bialetti.
Particulate matter emissions from the roasting and cooling operations are typically ducted to cyclones before being emitted to the atmosphere.
The family-owned company employs more than 3,000 individuals overall and had a revenue of 583 million Swiss francs in 2018.
In the late Georgian era piercing popularity had declined, and the tongs were made to match the contemporary spoon designs (for example, with the fiddle pattern).
It markets most of its product under the Sage brand in the UK and Europe, since the Breville brand is owned by the unrelated Newell Brands company in the UK.
Marketed since spring 1927 and up into, at least, the 1940s, these coffee makers were available as stand-alone devices for home use, but were also adopted by various other German coffee roasters (including Maschinenfabrik Bremen (Bremen, Germany), Georg Schrader & Co.
The saucer also provides a convenient place for a wet spoon, as might be used to stir the drink in the cup in order to mix sweeteners or creamers into tea or coffee.
Cortado is espresso with a small amount of very lightly foamed milk added, in contrast to a macchiato's more frothy texture.
Tea-mate A Tea-mate powdered variety for whitening tea was also introduced in the UK in a jar as well as in other countries in sachets or cartons.
This is the ISBN of the second edition (2020), however, the ISBN of the first edition (2013) appears to be the same.) Mani San Max, Isabelle.
In Australia, Woolworths and Gloria Jeans promote and make their own capsules exclusively for the system, with the latter also selling Gloria Jeans branded machines.
Ristretto is an espresso drink where the weight of the ground coffee is equal to the weight of the brewed shots a 1:1 ratio.
Wooden zarfs, of which very few remain, were favored because of the natural aroma of the wood from which they were fashioned.
Geschichte und Geschichten um Melitta - geröstet, gemahlen und gefiltert - zum 50jährigen Bestehen der Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden [History and stories around Melitta - roasted, grinded and filtered - at the 50th anniversary of Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden] (in German) (1 ed.).
In 2017, Philips sold the Saeco Professional division (also with the Gaggia brand) to N&W Global Vending SpA, an Italian Bergamo based company leader in vending machines for drinks and snacks, born in 2000 from the integration of Necta and Wittenberg and controlled by a US fund, Lone Star.
Design and qualification Through the safety process, NASA verified that the hardware would meet the necessary requirements and it has certified the system for the flight on the ISS.
Bravilor Bonamat is a Dutch manufacturer of commercial and office-grade coffee machines, espresso machines and hot water dispensers, founded in Amsterdam by A.J.M.
The espresso machines are produced by Eugster/Frismag in Romanshorn, which also manufactures machines for other brands such as Siemens, Bosch and AEG.
Bunn, who designed his own versions of paper coffee filters, that had a flat bottom and fluted sides and pour-over drip coffee brewers.
Melitta USA's coffee filters are manufactured in Clearwater, Florida, and the company has a coffee roasting operation in Cherry Hill, New Jersey.
The Caffitaly System (known in some markets as the Caffita System) is a capsule system for making espresso and other coffee drinks in home espresso machines.
Arabic coffee, known in Arabic as qahwa (Arabic: قهوة), is a loosely defined family of brewed coffee of Coffea arabica beans.
The machine combined a method similar to a French press with a vacuum mechanism that separated the liquid from the grounds.
tagline 2010 Mars Drinks acquires the Alterra Coffee Roasters brand from Colectivo Coffee Roasters and launched The Bright Tea Company 2018 Lavazza North America buys Flavia including The Bright Tea Company and Alterra Coffee Roasters from Mars.
While in the Middle Ages a saucer was used for serving condiments and sauces, currently the term is used to denote a small plate that supports a cup – usually one used to serve coffee or tea - or a pot - usually for a plant.
In 2021, Gloucestershire-based football club Forest Green Rovers trialed a kit made from 35% used coffee grounds combined with recycled plastic.
Jura, registered as Jura Elektroapparate AG is a Swiss developer and distributor of home appliances, mainly espresso machines, headquartered in Niederbuchsiten, Canton of Solothurn.
The new product was marketed under the Carnation label with the brand name Coffee-Mate and released in 1961, shortly after the commercial introduction of Rich Products' CoffeeRich.
This saw the boycott of sugar between 1792-1793 and 1825-1829 as a way to force parliament to halt the trafficking of enslaved people.
Like similar proprietary coffee-making systems, Caffitaly can be seen as an example of the razor and blades business model, in which the relatively low price of the coffeemaker is recouped through a higher profit margin on the coffee capsules it uses.
References External links Wigomat: Eine Hommage an die erste Filterkaffeemaschine der Welt (archived 2018-03-20)
In 2015 Lavazza introduced the A Modo Mio Fantasia coffee machine designed together with Electrolux.
In almost all beverages with milk, two capsules are needed: one capsule with milk powder and other with the other ingredient (be it coffee, tea or chocolate).
Nutrition facts In its plain form, Arabic coffee is considered a low-calorie beverage with minimal macronutrient content.
Subsidiaries Capresso - since 2008 References External links Jura Elektroapparate AG JURAworld of Coffee, visitor's centre
Single baskets are sharply tapered or stepped down in diameter to provide comparable depth to the double baskets and, therefore, comparable resistance to water pressure.
Ivory was carved in the same way as wood; however, its greater value meant that more care was needed to avoid mistakes.
History Breville The company was established in 1932, by Bill O’Brien and Harry Norville, who combined their two surnames to form the company name.
A commonly recommended brewing temperature for traditional coffee beverages is 91–94 °C (196–201 °F), which facilitates full extraction of desired compounds.
"System Büttner" coffee makers (German: Büttner-Kaffeemaschine) have been a type of manual and semi-automatic coffee makers combining coffee steeping (infusion, full immersion) with drip-filtering (percolation).
The company was founded in Antwerp in 1896, and in 1966 was appointed a "Certified Royal Warrant Holder of Belgium".
During the same year a feasibility study with the creation of some subsystems was conducted in order to validate the technological choices.
Indian filter coffee, particularly common in southern India, is prepared with rough-ground dark roasted coffee beans (e.g., Arabica, PeaBerry), and chicory.
This allows the Tassimo pod maker to brew a variety of hot drinks: filtered style coffee, cappuccino, short espresso, tea, and hot chocolate.
Subsequent designs have featured changes in heating elements, spray head, and brew-basket design, as well as the addition of timers and clocks for automatic-start, water filtration, filter and carafe design, drip stop, and even built-in coffee grinding mechanisms.
The Levant White coffee in the Levant "qahwah bayda" (قهوة بيضاء) is a caffeine-free drink made from water, orange blossom water, and sweetened with sugar if desired, or rose water.
Following the introduction of the lever machines by Gaggia in 1947, La Marzocco began to manufacture its own lever models.
Similar steam pressure-driven devices were invented in Paris by Alexandre Lebrun (1838) and in Berlin by H.
Reiner received his PhD at TU Wien in 1913 and made significant contributions to the development of the study of flow behavior known as rheology.
In 2016, significant changes were made to the competition format: Grinders were now provided by the competition's partner (Mahlkönig), new models of espresso machines were introduced, and the cappuccino was replaced by a "milk drink" component.
In the South of Europe, in countries like Italy or Spain, the domestic use of the moka expanded quickly and completely substituted the percolator by the end of the 1930s.
Another variant was the Arndt'sche Sturzmaschine (not to be confused with the Arndt'sche Caffee-Aufgussmaschine).
Singapore The name kopitiam symbolizes Singapore's multilingual culture: "kopi" is Malay for coffee, while "tiam" is Hokkien (or Fukienese) for shop.
Bunn-O-Matic Corporation is an American manufacturer of dispensed beverage equipment (including coffee and tea) headquartered in Springfield, Illinois, with a plant in Creston, Iowa.
In 2023, the SCA updated the rules and regulations and now allow the use of infused and co-fermented coffees in baristas' routines.
The beans are then weighed and transferred manually, by belt, or pneumatic conveyor to storage hoppers.
In 1978, Arthur Eugster and his brother Markus founded the Frismag AG in Amriswil and began producing coffee machines.
Espresso brew pitcher Small metal creamers may be used in making espresso-based drinks – the espresso being brewed into the pitcher, which is then poured into the drink.
Once the grounds are adequately steeped, the coffee is poured into a room-temperature bottle or keg.
In the 1970´s, Maas International incorporated coffee, beverages and snacks in its vending machines.
Hot Coffee documentary On June 27, 2011, HBO premiered a documentary about tort reform problems, Hot Coffee.
History Invention The first modern percolator incorporating the rising of boiling water through a tube to form a continuous cycle and capable of being heated on a kitchen stove was invented in 1819 by the Parisian tinsmith Joseph-Henry-Marie Laurens.
The original 1989 edition was by Lucchetti editore, Bergamo, Italy.); Bramah, Edward Roderick; Bramah, Joan (1995) [1989].
Name The name cezve is of Turkish origin, where it is a borrowing from Arabic: جِذوَة (jadhwa or jidhwa, meaning 'ember').
There are many specific terms for different types of cups in different cultures, many depending on the type of drink they are mostly used for, and the material they are made of; in particular, cups made of glass are mostly called a "glass" in contemporary English.
Both ground and brewed torrefacto coffee has higher antioxidant capacity than standard roasts, decreased pro-oxidant activities were also observed in a study.
Once manufactured by many porcelain manufacturers, demand gradually dropped and eventually production stopped when electrical coffee makers became more and more common, so that Karlsbad coffee makers were only available on the used market for a couple of decades.
Philips Saeco S.p.A., or short Saeco, is an Italian manufacturer of manual, super-automatic and capsule espresso machines and other electrical goods with headquarters and factories in Gaggio Montano near Bologna.
A similar concept using phase change materials, but integrated into the walls and bottom of a cup, had been invented by the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics in 2009.
The captured hot air causing mild micro-turbulences on the underside of the coffee grounds were said to help avoid clogging.
are, in no particular order, International Paper, LBP Manufacturing, Java Jacket, and Labansat & Schulz Manufacturing.
A tasse à café (French pronunciation: [tɑs‿a kafe], coffee cup) is a cup, generally of white porcelain and of around 120 ml (4 fl oz), in which coffee is served.
Büttner (Berlin, Germany) and produced up into, at least, the 1940s by the porcelain manufacturer Bauscher (Weiden, Germany) for various German coffee roasters and distributors.
A demitasse (; French: "half cup"), demi-tasse, or espresso cup is a small cup used to serve espresso.
When the coffee is finished brewing, it is poured into small clay or porcelain cups through a sieve to catch the fine coffee ground, and served with the small snacks that were consumed while the coffee was prepared.
Despite this, he found that the Anna still produced good milk texture: somewhat underpowered compared to the Rancilio Silvia (V3) and Gaggia Classic (2019), but notably superior to the Breville Bambino and Delonghi Dedica.
The European patent took force in a number of Contracting States of the European Patent Convention, including Belgium.
History The AeroPress was invented by retired Stanford engineering lecturer Alan Adler, who had previously patented and sold the Aerobie flying ring in the 1980s.
The version of the Anna reviewed did not include a PID controller, and was equipped with an earlier, pannarello-style steam wand cover, an ineffectual design that Hoffmann removed prior to testing.
Awards and achievements In February 2006, the Flavia Fusion drinks station earned the Good Housekeeping Seal, which means that the product has a two-year limited warranty.
Penelope Stock, a lexicographer, found that cups, mugs and glasses are "near-synonyms", although "sufficient differences" can be found that divide them into different groups.
Coffee culture in Sweden today Fika Fika is a well-established tradition within Swedish coffee culture, characterised by a designated break during which individuals consume coffee, typically accompanied by buns or pastries, in a social setting.
Michael Phillips is a barista who won the United States Barista Championship in Portland, Oregon, in March 2009, while working at Intelligentsia Coffee & Tea in Chicago, IL.
Unlike a standard percolator, the moka pot never sends brewed coffee back through the coffee grounds.
Differences in respect to a commercial espresso maker The first noticeable difference concerns the size and weight: 43 × 42 × 36 cm (17 × 16.5 × 14 in) and nearly 20 kg (44 lb).
The impact of transient temperature – the temperature of the final coffee beverage after brewed is finished – does not matter as much as brewing temperature; briefly heating coffee does not destroy its taste.
Organization The WBC is operated by World Coffee Events (WCE), and is one of seven World Coffee Championships which was established by the Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) and the Speciality Coffee Association of Europe (SCAE) to run a portfolio of international coffee events.
The Keurig 2.0 K-Cup pods come in 400 varieties from 60 brands, and as of 2015, the 2.0 K-Cup, K-Carafe, and K-Mug pods encompass 500 varieties from 75 brands.
The system is designed to remedy the defects of coffee pods which, if not correctly inserted, cause water leakage and alteration of the drink.
A mihbaj (Arabic: مهباج) is a traditional Arabic implement, made of a wooden base with a foot-long pestle, that serves both as a coffee grinder and as a percussion instrument.
This term was loaned from medieval Eastern Aramaic forms in ʾaḇrēqā, and originated in New Persian *ābrēž (cf.
Recall On 9 February 2012 about 900,000 in Canada and 835,000 coffee makers the United States were recalled after reports of the brewers spraying hot liquid, coffee grounds or tea leaves onto people.
From 1964 to 1970 La Marzocco produced the Poker series, in which the piston, unlike lever machines, was lifted and pressed during brewing by means of a diaphragm, that was inflated by steam pressure generated by the boiler.
Machines iperEspresso capsules require special espresso machines, which are manufactured by Francis Francis (a subsidiary of Illy), Gaggia (Saeco), and Cuisinart (Conair).
Products FLAVIA claims its patented technology brews drinks in a single-serve "Fresh Pack," which means that the pack is the actual brewing chamber.
1960s–1970s) were devices combining steeping (immersion) with drip-filtering (percolation), a method sometimes also called percolative immersion, immersion pour-over, immersion drip brew, hybrid brewing, steeped bloom or steep & release.
When the lower chamber is almost empty, bubbles of steam mix with the upstreaming water, producing a characteristic gurgling noise—a signal that brewing should be stopped.
"Vor- und Nachteile des Karlsbader Filterverfahrens" [Advantages and disadvantages of the Karlsbad filter method].
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz purchased the company after trying a cup brewed by a Clover machine and declaring it to be "the best cup of brewed coffee I have ever tasted".
Another type of demitasse has a glass cup set into a metal cup-holder frame, called a zarf in Turkey.
Coffee sleeves allow coffee houses, fast food restaurants, and other vendors to avoid double-cupping, the practice of using two (or more) nested paper cups for a single hot beverage.
Design The Chemex coffeemaker consists of an hourglass-shaped glass flask with a conical funnel-like neck and proprietary filters, made of bonded paper, that are thicker than the standard paper filters used for a drip coffeemaker.
A higher concentration of solubles is associated with a stronger beverage, and lower concentration with a weaker, more "watery", beverage.
A typical cabaret service includes (in addition to cups and saucers) a teapot or a coffeepot (with a lid and occasionally a stand), a sugar bowl, a creamer, sometimes a tray and cutlery.
The company originally began as a wholesale reseller of espresso machines, before later branching out into manufacturing.
The Dictionary of Antiques and the Decorative Arts: A Book of Reference for Glass, Furniture, Ceramics, Silver, Periods, Styles, Technical Terms, Etc.
Thermal transport When placed beneath a cup, saucers have very little direct influence on beverage cooling rate.
The sugar tongs are small serving utensils used at the table to transfer sugar pieces from the sugar bowl to the tea cups.
The capsules are produced at the Mokapak factory in Gattinara, in the province of Vercelli, where the "Lavazza Blue" capsules are also produced.
In the second stage, emulsification, the iper-infusion is forced through the valve at the bottom of the capsule, by mixing the aromatic oils with air to produce cream.
Families will usually have only one, and it is normally passed down from generation to generation as a practical, ornate heirloom.
Genio S Plus and Genio S Touch models both benefit from Espresso Boost Technology for more intense and concentrated espressos.
Farsi ābrēz), from Middle Persian *āb-rēǰ, ultimately from Old Persian *āp- 'water' + *raiča- 'pour' (New Persian ریختن [rêxtan]).
ISSpresso was the first espresso coffee machine designed for use in space, produced for the International Space Station by Argotec and Lavazza in a public-private partnership with the Italian Space Agency (ASI).
It is often made with the purpose of conducting a business deal and welcoming someone into one's home for the first time, and frequently served at weddings and on important occasions.
Dictionnaire de l'ameublement et de la décoration depuis le XIIIe siècle jusqu'à nos jours (in French).
Around this time, the temperance movement and new alcohol regulations transformed Swedish drinking culture.
Most Nespresso pods – except for "Starbucks by Nespresso" pods, available in most supermarkets – can only be bought online or in special Nespresso stores, although non-official, Nespresso-compatible pods are available from numerous retailers.
See also Coffee cup sleeve Cup holder Podstakannik References External links The dictionary definition of zarf at Wiktionary
During the summer of 2015, Brad Kifferstein appeared on CNBC's Power Pitch, where his pitch received one "in" and two "out" votes from the panelists.
Critics such as Carl Linnaeus warned of its health effects, advocating for herbal alternatives, while economic concerns, including the negative balance of trade caused by the importing of exotic 'luxuries' including coffee, led to government bans.
While the exact caffeine content of any coffee drink will vary, a typical 30 millilitres (1 US fluid ounce) serving of espresso contains approximately 65 milligrams of caffeine, but a typical 240 millilitres (8 US fluid ounces) serving of drip coffee contains approximately 95 mg of caffeine.
While originally a cheap way of preserving the coffee beans in the 1920s, due to the common use of low-grade Robusta coffee the process was also used to hide negative aroma and taste characteristics of the coffee.
It has been featured in the novel From Russia with Love, in a scene where James Bond eats breakfast, the film Harper starring Paul Newman, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, and Ira Levin's Rosemary's Baby, as well as its film adaptation.
The used coffee grounds are retained in the filter, while the brewed coffee is collected in a vessel such as a carafe or pot.
Siphon brewing relies on vapor pressure to raise water from a pressure chamber up to the brewing chamber where the coffee is infused.
In fact, there are two phenomena that contribute to this effect: on the one hand, the Bernoulli equation is used to explain it, on the other hand, the adhesion between the liquid and the spout material is also important.
Nach dem Ausgiessen sollte keine Flüssigkeit mehr an der Außenwand der Kanne entlanglaufen und kein Tropfen an der Tülle hängen bleiben.
A trial recycling scheme has been operating in the UK during 2019 but has drawn criticism in social media channels.
The machines debuted a proprietary capsule system called smart capsule, that could prepare hot or cold beverages — the heating is done internally, but for cold beverages the water has to be manually chilled in the water tank with ice.
The capsule can be disposed of easily once the coffee is made, and the machine requires little maintenance or cleaning.
The first of Bezzera's patents was submitted on 19 December 1901, titled "Innovations in the machinery to prepare and immediately serve coffee beverage"; it was granted as Patent No.
The machine utilizes the same coffee pods, and can produce three different variants of coffee with foam milk: Cappuccino, Café Latte and Latte macchiato.
With the two lower jugs on the right, the high position of the spout (above the maximum filling level) means that the vessel has to be tilted quite a bit before pouring, so that the spout can also be pushed up directly after the edge (against gravity).
Used coffee grounds are the result of brewing coffee and are the final product after preparation of coffee.
As the water heats, it is forced by the increasing vapor pressure up the siphon and into the bowl where it mixes with the grounds.
In 1995 the separate companies merged to form Eugster/Frismag AG and the group's headquarters relocated to Romanshorn.
In 1985, they launched the first completely automatic espresso machine for domestic use, called Superautomatica and in 1999 they bought the historic espresso brand Gaggia.
While the company distributes brands under its own name, it also supplies coffee under other notable brands such as Shipley Do-Nuts and Bright and Early Coffee.
Eugster/Frismag manufactures around 20% of all Nestle machines as well as other machines for brands such as Jura, Keurig, Melitta, KitchenAid or Moulinex.
The term “white coffee” in Britain usually means coffee that has some kind of cream or milk added to it, and distinct from “black coffee” which has no dairy components at all.
History Alfonso Bialetti first acquired his metal-working skills by working for a decade in the French aluminium industry.
Notable Brands Bright and Early Coffee Dilmah Tea (USA Only) Shipley Do-Nuts References External links Official website
In May 2009, the company board agreed to a purchase offer from Dutch manufacturer Philips, owner of the Senseo coffee system, subject to shareholder and bank approval.
Karlsbad coffee makers consist of four parts (a coffee pot, a coffee strainer/filter, a water spreader/distributor, and a lid) all made out of porcelain, and they exist in a number of different shapes of unknown origin.
Others were also made of woods such as coconut, ebony or other hardwoods, or of ivory, bone, horn, or tortoiseshell.
Similar coffee makers In the 1880s, Max Thürmer, a coffee roaster of Dresden, Germany, founded in 1879, advertised Karlsbad coffee and somewhat later also coffee makers (of unknown type) in various newspapers.
The best-known rider competing for a team sponsored by Faema was 5-time Tour de France champion Eddy Merckx.
Retrieved 21 September 2023.{{cite news}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) External links Official website
La Pavoni introduced their Professional model in 1974, doubling the capacity of the boiler to 1600ml, equipping it with a pressurestat, and adding a pressure gauge atop the sight glass to allow both the water level and pressure inside the boiler to be monitored at a glance.
The specialty Vietnamese weasel coffee, which is made by collecting coffee beans eaten by wild civets, is sold at US$500 per kilogram.
Aftermarket products Some aftermarket products allow consumers to use ground coffee in a Senseo coffee maker and avoid the higher cost of single-serve pods.
Other common ingredients include solidified corn syrup and other sweeteners or flavorings (such as French vanilla, hazelnut, and Irish cream); as well as sodium caseinate, a milk protein derivative (from casein) that does not contain lactose.
English silverware examples are from about 1750; the Dutch immigrant silversmith John Schuppe, who worked in London from 1753, produced little else, and his examples are among the finest.
Past winners See also World Butchers Challenge References External links World Barista Championship official site
The cost per serving is 10% higher than Illy E.S.E pods, and twice higher than Illy ground or whole bean non-encapsulated coffee.
Brewed or boiled, non espresso-based Black coffee is drip-brewed, percolated, vacuum brewed, or French-press-style coffee served without cream or sugar.
He has since become the first US Barista to win the World Barista Championship in London, England, in 2010.
It was first held in Oslo, Norway, in 2008, with only three competitors, but grew in popularity each year after.
Industrial uses Coffee grounds may be used industrially in biogas production or to treat wastewater.
Hot water at approximately 176 °F (80 °C) for dark roast coffee or 185 °F (85 °C) for lighter roast is then poured over the coffee; this mixture is stirred for approximately 10 seconds before being forced through the microfilter by pushing the plunger downwards.
In Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, France, Sweden, Spain, Poland, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, South Africa and China Jura has its own distribution companies or joint ventures.
A demitasse-sized cup, known as a finjan, is traditionally used for serving Turkish and Arabic coffee.
The company would immediately create the brands of Admiration Coffee and Bright and Early Coffee, which is still around today.
The second model, known as the Elegance Model, was developed to test the mechanical functions of the machine: many of the mechanical components correspond with those used for the flight unit.
Suzanne Rotteveel, spokeswoman for Sara Lee in the Netherlands, said: We're very disappointed since we invested a lot of time, energy and money.
Housewares International Limited The company was founded in 1957 as Housewares International Limited, and imported homeware products.
Hedrick also gave the Lelit Anna and Victoria 'B' grades in his May 2025 "Ultimate Budget Espresso Machine Tier List," describing them as strong competitors to the current Gaggia Classic Pro and Rancilio Silvia, as well as the Profitec GO and Gemilai Owl.
Carter Chambers (Morgan Freeman) explains how civets defecate kopi luwak coffee beans, and that the gastric juices of the defecated beans give kopi luwak its unique aroma.
Demitasse cups are small because they usually serve espresso, which is a stronger, more concentrated coffee, best served in smaller portions.
In addition to home espresso machines, Illy offers professional Francis Francis X7.1 iperEspresso machines for hotels and restaurants.
A mathematical argument has been made that delivering comparable strength in two cups of coffee is nearly achieved using a Thue–Morse sequence of pours.
American Coffee-mate comes in over 25 different flavors, including gingerbread, Parisian almond creme as well as peppermint mocha.
In We Have Always Lived in the Castle by Shirley Jackson the sugar bowl is a prominent object used to poison and murder members of the Blackwood Family.
In the United States of America, where the product is manufactured by Nestlé in Glendale, Arizona, the product is available in liquid, liquid concentrate and powdered forms.
Strength, also known as solubles concentration, refers to the percentage of dissolved solids per unit of liquid in the final beverage.
A coffee professional compared the same beans with and without the kopi luwak process using a rigorous coffee cupping evaluation.
In 1957, United States Deputy Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Energy, Charles Duncan Jr., put together a group to buy back the company from the failing owners.
Chicory is sometimes combined with coffee as a flavoring agent, as in the style of coffee served at the famous Café du Monde in New Orleans.
At the end of 2015, the company's income statement registered a total revenue of €172.4 million, 6.9% more than 2014 (€161.2 million).
Reception Release The device was officially unveiled in November 2005, at the CoffeeFest trade show in Seattle.
Caffitaly Systems also produces the CBTL Capsule System for The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf and the MAP Italian Coffee Capsule System for Map Coffee Australia.
A single vertical handle is essential (otherwise the vessel is a beaker), as is the lack of a matching saucer.
Lowering the temperature to 160 °F (71 °C) would increase the time for the coffee to produce such a burn to 20 seconds.
Crema is produced when water placed under very high pressure dissolves more carbon dioxide, a gas present inside the coffee that is produced during the roasting process.
The food and refreshments accompanying workplace fika vary in provision: they may include baked or store-bought pastries, or homemade items such as sandwiches and fresh fruit brought in by employees.
The Java Jacket first appeared at the Seattle Coffeefest in 1995 and Sorensen and his wife Colleen were overwhelmed with requests and orders to fill.
Prior to the acquisition of the majority share in 2021, the company was owned by the Dutch Private Equity firm Nimbus.
The company received help on manufacturing costs from Sherrill and raised money on Kickstarter in 2011.
See also Erlenmeyer flask Chemex filter system (FP-1, FP-2, FP-2N, FS-100, FSU-100, FC-100) Bodum Pour Over (a similar looking metal filter holder) Hario Drip Pot Woodneck (a similar looking cloth filter holder) References External links Chemex Coffeemakers & Filters – Official Website
In 2015, La Marzocco also released the Linea Mini, a home espresso machine derived from the commercial Linea Classic, featuring a dual boiler and app connectivity.
While varying in price, colour, availability of filter/display they are functionally equivalent in that each maker will produce the same beverage from the same t-disc.
The company was organized in 4 regions, EMEA (Europe Middle-East and Africa), Asia Pacific, Latin America and North America Through its wholly owned subsidiary Spengler in Germany and China, Maas developed new and innovative product lines.
The roaster is the main source of gaseous pollutants, including alcohols, aldehydes, organic acids, and nitrogen and sulfur compounds.
They worked on the principle of French drip coffee pots, but used a paper filter and allowed to pour the whole amount of water at once instead of having to pour several times.
Cuisine The word "cup" is also used as a unit of capacity: the capacity of a "typical" cup, varying slightly from place to place; it is mostly used in recipes.
This beak may be covered with a metal flap to keep the coffee warmer, but traditionally it is open to view the coffee as it is poured out.
The corpus includes rich text materials from the blogosphere, social networks, major news sources and literary magazines.
Notable Practitioners of Interactional Sociolinguistics Gregory Bateson Dwight Bolinger Penelope Brown Wallace Chafe Frederick Erickson Erving Goffman John J.
August 29, 1939 – Lingua...there is no longer any talk of Bolshevists, but instead of the Russian people.
59-100) Archived 30 March 2012 at the Wayback Machine ‘On Acts, Pure and Impure’ (International Journal of Zizek Studies, vol.
"Naše škole i fakulteti su rasadište nacionalističkih mitova o jeziku: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [Our schools and faculties are hotbeds of nationalist myths about language: Interview with Snježana Kordić] (in Serbo-Croatian).
Damon Mayaffre holds a doctorate in history and linguistics, oversees research at the French National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS), and is a professor at the Université Nice-Sophia-Antipolis/Côte d'Azur.
Socially situated writing Second, in addition to the expansion of the genre, textual analysis has moved contrastive rhetoric to emphasize the social situation of writing.
Chilton is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Linguistics and English Language at the University of Lancaster.
It underlines odd constructions of words intended to give a "scientific" or neutral aspect to otherwise heavily engaged discourses, as well as significant every-day behaviour.
Mayaffre Damon with Vanni Laurent, (2021) L'intelligence artificielle des textes : Des algorithmes à l'interprétation (in French).
The process of attending to the foregrounded patterns in the text is the means by which we proceed from simple statements about the language to an explication of the ‘artness’ of the text.
Eni de Lourdes Puccinelli Orlandi is a Brazilian researcher with great influence in French Discourse Analysis, being the one to bring it to Brazil by translating to Portuguese Michel Pêcheux's books and articles.
Overtness of information, such as whether an argument of a verb is indicated by a lexical noun phrase, a pronoun, or not mentioned at all.
Finegan, Longman grammar of spoken and written English (Harlow: Pearson Education, 1999)", Arbeiten aus Anglistik und Amerikanistik 25/2, 2000, pp.
Considering an underlying text corpus, a word sketch quintuple is a quintuple consisting of headword, grammatical relation, collocation, position of headword in the corpus, position of collocation in the corpus (e.g.
But he said that "to the extent that I favoured any one angle, it was the social: language as the creature and creator of human society".
The relationship between doctor and patient (subject and object) is not about the one who knows and the one who tells, because doctor–patient interactions are not "mindless phenomenologies" that existed before their consultation (medical discourse) as patient and doctor.
With rates Y 0 , y , Y 1 {\displaystyle Y_{0},y,Y_{1}} for usage of another word class of the same 3 literatures, respectively, then 3 points, ( X 0 , Y 0 ) , ( x , y ) , ( X 1 , Y 1 ) {\displaystyle (X_{0},Y_{0}),(x,y),(X_{1},Y_{1})} will approximately be located on a line.
Turkish National Corpus – A general-purpose corpus for contemporary Turkish Archived 2 April 2015 at the Wayback Machine Corpus of Political Speeches, Free access to political speeches by American and Chinese politicians, developed by Hong Kong Baptist University Library Russian National Corpus
Semantic structure analysis (or SSA) is a methodology for systematic description of the intended meaning of natural language, developed by the Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Verbal context influences the way an expression is understood; hence the norm of not citing people out of context.
Krug, M.: "Douglas Biber, Stig Johansson, Geoffrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan, Longman grammar of spoken and written English.
It contains 458,000 documents (188 million tokens) that are collected from sources such as websites, news agencies, books, and magazines.
External links Semantic Structure Analysis — a bibliography of SIL-authored, theoretical-SSA publications at their official website, Ethnologue.com Semantic Structure Analysis — a bibliography of SIL-authored, applied-SSA publications, also at Ethnologue.com
In linguistics and in particular in natural language understanding, a dialog act can be interpreted as the atomic units of a conversation, more fine-grained than utterances, characterized by a specific communicative function.
From observation, words tend to exhibit only one sense in most given discourse and in a given collocation.
For example, in 1929, Edward Sapir urged linguists to move beyond diachronic and formal analyses for their own sake and to "become aware of what their science may mean for the interpretation of human conduct in general" (1929:207).
However, more recent empirical and theoretical studies have challenged the relevance of Zipf's law for cities.
Neurolinguistic analysis of context has shown that the interaction between interlocutors defined as parsers creates a reaction in the brain that reflects predictive and interpretative reactions.
'Relevant context' she defines as "that frame of consistency which is illuminated by the language of text" and "a semiotic construct".
The use of SCAN techniques has also been found to be vulnerable to contextual bias on the part of investigators.
Michael Halliday, the founder of systemic functional linguistics, calls these three functions the ideational, interpersonal, and textual.
She is also a researcher 1A at Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq).
Rather, speakers are constantly shifting their subject positions according to the interplay of discourses within specific settings.
In a 2002 article, Connor attempted to address these criticisms and to offer new directions for a viable contrastive rhetoric.
What allows meanings from these two modes to freely combine is the intercession of a third, distinct mode of meaning that Halliday refers to as the textual function.
The lexis and semantics differ, and a speaker uses words suited for children, "doggie" instead of "dog", for example.
‘The chicken turtles tasted like chicken.’ becomes ‘It was the chicken turtle | that tasted like chicken.’ In this case, clefting is used to shift the focus of the sentence to the subject, the chicken turtle.
ISBN 9780691138701.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: ref duplicates default (link) Scott, Mike; Tribble, Chris (2006).
Beginning in 2000, a series of monographs, edited collections, and textbooks by members of the group, some of them based on the doctoral research conducted within the programme were published, synthesizing the group's work.
it must be either "middle" or "effective", where "effective" leads to the further choice of "operative" (otherwise known as 'active') or "receptive" (otherwise known as "passive").
'Crystal clear', 'middle management', 'nuclear family', and 'cosmetic surgery' are examples of collocated pairs of words.
The distinction between dialect and diatype is not always clear; in some cases a language variety may be understood as both a dialect and a diatype.
A corpus language is a language that has no living speakers but for which numerous records produced by its native speakers survive.
Michael Young of Consolidated Goldfields would organise seven meetings known as the Mells Park Initiative between Willie Esterhuyse and his team of politically connected Afrikaners and the ANC's led by Thabo Mbeki of which Trew attended all.
Contextualism, also known as epistemic contextualism, is a family of views in philosophy which emphasize the context in which an action, utterance, or expression occurs.
A word sketch is a one-page, automatic, corpus-derived summary of a word’s grammatical and collocational behaviour.
However, it also makes WordNet a resource for highlighting and studying the differences between languages, so it is not necessarily a limitation for all use cases.
Paul Anthony Chilton (born 21 October 1944) is a British cognitive linguist and discourse analyst known for his work on conceptual metaphor, cognitive stylistics, and political discourse.
Conversation analysis While conversation analysis did indeed study language since its beginning, it grew out of sociology and often dealt with sociological research questions and topics.
Each of these disciplines (rhetoric, sociolinguistics, discourse analysis, conversation analysis, etc.) is based on a specific interest.
The Greeks may need four words to cover all the meanings English-speakers have in mind when speaking of "love".
Beyond these books, her work has been widely translated into multiple languages and disseminated internationally.
The name is also used for Eugene Nida's technique for mapping lexical items from a source language to a receptor language in translation theory.
In 2002 he took up a chair at Macquarie until 2008, when he was appointed chair and head of the Department of English at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
Not all extinct languages are corpus languages, since there are many extinct languages in which few or no writings or other records survive, as is the case in the vast majority of languages that have ever existed.
From 1971 to 1974 she taught the discipline of discourse analysis in the specialization course in translation at Pontifical Catholic University of Campinas.
According to Ferreday, media use of "Won't someone think of the children!" had become common in a climate of moral panic.
He uses the term épistémè (French pronunciation: [epistemɛ]) in his The Order of Things, in a specialized sense to mean the historical, non-temporal, a priori knowledge that grounds truth and discourses, thus representing the condition of their possibility within a particular epoch.
Teun Adrianus van Dijk (born 7 May 1943 in Naaldwijk, German-occupied Netherlands) is a scholar in the fields of text linguistics, discourse analysis and Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA).
A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language is a descriptive grammar of English written by Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik.
Another theory suggests that the term emerged from the idea of waffle batter spreading in an irregular, non-linear pattern, much like incoherent talk.
May 23, 1938 – The aim of education in the Third Reich and of the language of the Third Reich, is to expand the popular stratum in everyone to such an extent that the thinking stratum is suffocated.
A number of concordancers have been published, notably Oxford Concordance Program (OCP), a concordancer first released in 1981 by Oxford University Computing Services, which claims to be used in over 200 organisations worldwide.
Formal account A word sketch triple is a triple consisting of headword, grammatical relation, collocation (e.g.
Uses Value Stance can be used to attribute personal value to an object by way of describing how the speaker feels about it.
Talk is seen as (and, in experimental psychology and protocol analysis, used as) descriptions of people's mental content.
Macrostructures may be derived from microstructures by operations such as abstracting, that is, leaving out or summarizing specific details.
Nuclei are considered as the most important parts of text whereas satellites contribute to the nuclei and are secondary.
Recently topic models has been used to extract information from dataset of cancers' genomic samples.
Aristotle Aristotle distinguished between five virtues of thought: technê, epistêmê, phronêsis, sophia, and nous, with techne translating as "craft" or "art" and episteme as "knowledge".
These semantic macrostructures (global meanings or topics) are typically expressed in for instance the headlines and lead of a news report, or the title and the abstract of a scholarly article.
As Halliday points out, "the more permanent the attribute of a thing, the less likely it is to identify it in a particular context" (that is, of the speech event).
Many linguistic anthropologists have come to understand that language and culture are not separate entities, but are in fact processes that work hand in hand.
Using the corpus tools, these dictionaries can be searched not only for words, but also for lexico-grammatical patterns within examples and phraseological expressions.
Studies have raised serious questions and concerns about the validity of CBCA for assessing the credibility of children's testimonies.
President Bill Clinton as a waffle who would switch sides on issues to gain approval == References ==
Utterances that are represented or portrayed in writing are planned, unlike utterances in improvised spoken language.
Since then, Sketch Engine has been commercial software, however, all the core features of Manatee and Bonito that were developed by 2003 (and extended since then) are freely available under the GPL license within the NoSketch Engine suite.
In this formulation, language variation can be divided into two categories: dialect, for variation according to user, and diatype for variation according to use (e.g.
Born in 1922 he was able to play a crucial role in setting up how future scholars looked at language, culture, and social meaning.
According to Connor, the term intercultural rhetoric better describes the broadening trends of expression across languages and cultures.
A quasi-comparable corpus includes very heterogeneous and non-parallel bilingual documents that may or may not be topic-aligned.
It is used by investigators in assorted fields as can be seen in the list below of works using the software.
The "criteria-based content analysis" (CBCA) is a core component of the SVA and is a tool used to distinguish true statements from false statements as CBCA scores are expected to be higher for truth tellers than liars.
Korpusomat - a tool for creating and searching electronic language corpora, created at the Institute of Computer Science of the Polish Academy of Sciences.
Recent work in experimental philosophy has taken an empirical approach to testing the claims of contextualism and related views.
The output of a concordancer may serve as input to a translation memory system for computer-assisted translation, or as an early step in machine translation.
Further details about her family background and their experiences of exile and return are documented in the biography Die Wodaks.
The program analyzes the text and, for each word form, determines the lemma (lexeme) and tags (grammatical features).
Since the 1980s his work in CDA focused especially on the study of the discursive reproduction of racism by what he calls the 'symbolic elites' (politicians, journalists, scholars, writers), the study of news in the press, and on the theories of ideology, context and knowledge.
Sketch Engine: Open corpora with free access TS Corpus – A Turkish Corpus freely available for academic research.
In other approaches in linguistics (including linguistic anthropology, sociolinguistics, corpus linguistics), alternative terms such as evaluation or stance are preferred.
The influence of context parameters on language use or discourse is usually studied in terms of language variation, style or register (see Stylistics).
Feminist post-structuralist discourse analysis (FPDA) is a method of discourse analysis based on Chris Weedon's theories of feminist post-structuralism, and developed as a method of analysis by Judith Baxter in 2003.
Satellite discourse in a changing Europe (with Kay Richardson), London & New York: Routledge, 1999 English in a Changing World (with David Graddol) (1999) Intertextuality and the Media: from Genre to Everyday life (with Jonathan M.
Choice of deixis, such as articles; "medial" deictics such as Spanish ese and Japanese sore are generally determined by the familiarity of a referent rather than by physical distance.
Ulrike Hanna Meinhof is an Emeritus Professor in the Department of Modern Languages at the University of Southampton in Hampshire.
He noted that Kordić's first book on relative clauses is: a valuable and thorough study of the grammar of relative constructions, drawing theoretical-linguistic inspiration from a number of sources and citing statistical results based on a large representative corpus.
This is a recent project with multiple layers of annotation including morphological segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, and syntactic analysis using dependency grammar.
In order to make the corpora more useful for doing linguistic research, they are often subjected to a process known as annotation.
For example, some terms generally considered context-sensitive are indexicals, such as 'I', 'here', and 'now'; while 'I' has a constant linguistic meaning in all contexts of use, whom it refers to varies with context.
She has also contributed commentaries and short essays to Der Standard, Newsweek, Rantt, Euronews, and the online platforms OpenDemocracy and the Center for the Analysis of the Radical Right (CARR).
They concern (i) the interpersonal exchange between speaker and listener, and writer and reader; (ii) representation of our outer and inner worlds; and (iii) the wording of these meanings in cohesive spoken and written texts, from within the clause up to whole texts.
He founded five international journals: Poetics, Text (now called Text & Talk), Discourse & Society, Discourse Studies, Discourse & Communication, of which he still edits the last three.
The field contrasts with dominant approaches to linguistics during the twentieth century, which tended to focus either on the form of language per se, or on theories of individual language user's linguistic competence.
"and stuff"), accent/dialect, deictic expressions (utterances such as "over there!" that need further explanation to be understood), simple conjunctions ("and", "but", etc.), and colloquial lexis (everyday informal words).
Matthiessen completed his undergraduate degree at Lund University in 1980, where he studied English, Arabic, and philosophy.
As with other types of language variation, there tends to be a spectrum of registers rather than a discrete set of obviously distinct varieties—numerous registers can be identified, with no clear boundaries between them.
See also Text corpus Corpus linguistics Russian National Corpus Internet linguistics References Further reading Belikov V., Kopylov N., Piperski A., Selegey V., Sharoff S., (2013), Big and diverse is beautiful: A large corpus of Russian to study linguistic variation.
An example of the influence of this framing, according to Cinnamon, is how data are considered the primary solution for urban challenges.
Interactional linguistics does not subscribe to the strict separation of competence and performance of generative grammar.
Philologies Text corpora are also used in the study of historical documents, for example in attempts to decipher ancient scripts, or in Biblical scholarship.
History of Poetics Western Poetics Generally speaking, poetics in the Western tradition emerged out of Ancient Greece.
of the Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing associated with the International Conference RANLP, Hissar, Bulgaria.
Monograph on relative clauses in Serbo-Croatian (1995) Her first monograph on relative clauses was well received.
Macrostructure is an important concept in the Construction-Integration (CI) model detailed by Walter Kintsch in his landmark tome, Comprehension: A Paradigm for Cognition.
In this case, the words "life" and "manufacturing" are chosen as initial seed collocations for senses A and B respectively.
A corpus manager can be software installed on a personal computer or it might be provided as a web service.
University of Pittsburgh English Language Institute Corpus (PELIC) Vienna-Oxford International Corpus of English (VOICE), an ELF corpus.
Contextualist accounts of knowledge became increasingly popular toward the end of the 20th century, particularly as responses to the problem of skepticism.
Translatability There are, however, numerous political dimensions that come into play when keywords are studied in relation to cultures, societies and their histories.
Text corpora (singular: text corpus) are large and structured sets of texts, which have been systematically collected.
A word sketch database is a set of such triples or quintuples, which may be generated either by querying a corpus using corpus query language or by parsing the corpus using a natural language parser.
Tony Trew (also known as Anthony Andrew Trew) (Cape Town, 6 July 1941) is a South African politician and discourse analyst.
OpenCyc, an open ontology and knowledge base of everyday common sense knowledge, has 12,000 terms linked to WordNet synonym sets.
In discourse-based grammatical theory, information flow is any tracking of referential information by speakers.
Hence, despite their medical researches having occurred thirty years apart, the father of anatomical pathology, Giovanni Battista Morgagni (1682–1771), and the father of histology, Xavier Bichat (1771–1802), did not practise the same human anatomy.
Meinhof is the author of Language Learning in the Age of Satellite Television, published by Oxford University Press.
WordNet is the most commonly used computational lexicon of English for word-sense disambiguation (WSD), a task aimed at assigning the context-appropriate meanings (i.e.
Lovejoy's Law After the popularization of the phrase on The Simpsons, its use in society was often ridiculed, and came to be referred to as "Lovejoy's Law" in internet culture as early as 2006, probably independently coined several times.
description of English based on Halliday's work." His co-authored book, with Michael Halliday, Construing Experience through Meaning: A language based approach to cognition shows how to construe a linguistic/semiotic approach to cognition without invoking pre-linguistic mental fictions.
Nelson has been analyzing change in topics over time in the Richmond Times-Dispatch to understand social and political changes and continuities in Richmond during the American Civil War.
Richardson, eds.), London & New York: Longman, 1994 Télé-textes (with Elspeth Broady) (1995) Language and Masculinity (with S.
Research His research focus has been on the study of how people understand language, using both experimental methods and computational modeling techniques.
This approach is not fully automatic, a human judge must decide which word will be selected for each target word’s sense, the outputs will be reliable indicators of the senses.
See also COCOA (digital humanities) Cross-reference Ctags KWIC Language industry Statistically improbable phrase == References ==
Interactional stances In Conversation analysis, stance is used to express various nuances of action or an overlay to an action.
In addressing the critiques, she aimed to draw attention to the broad scope of contrastive rhetoric and determined that a new term would better encompass the essence of contrastive rhetoric in its current state.
As more newly-learned collocations are added to the seed sets, the sense A or sense B set will grow, and the original residual will shrink.
(1995) Lexicogrammatical cartography: English systems, Tokyo, International Language Sciences Publishers Halliday M.A.K., Matthiessen C.M.I.M.
The corpus is created either by adding text files from the local drive (in any language and format), or by indicating websites from which texts are to be downloaded.
Analyser les textes de communication, Paris, Dunod, 1998 (Portuguese (Brazil) translation: São Paulo, Cortez, 2001; Romanian translation: Iasi, Institutul European, 2007; Spanish translation: Buenos Aires, Nueva Visión, 2009).
Abstraction consists of the translation (mapping) of terms in the scheme to terms in a theoretically motivated model or dataset.
A dialog system typically includes a taxonomy of dialog types or tags that classify the different functions dialog acts can play.
In Book III Plato defines poetry as a type of narrative which takes one of three forms: the "simple," the "imitative" (mimetic), or any mix of the two.
On the latter, according to reviewers, Damon Mayaffre shows that President Chirac overuses the adverb "naturally" to assert with confidence things that are far from reality or to articulate with the force of evidence "one thing and its opposite".
Martin, May 1986 Halliday's Collected Papers in 10 volumes Michael Halliday's 2010 talk at UBC on YouTube Halliday, M.A.K.
The term likely derives from the Scots verb waff, meaning "to wave" or "fluctuate," which aligns with the meandering and aimless nature of waffling speech.
Towards a discursive psychology of the media", in Tileagă, Cristian; Stokoe, Elizabeth (eds.), Discursive psychology: classic and contemporary issues, Oxford New York: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-415-72160-8.
The IndoWordNet is a linked lexical knowledge base of wordnets of 18 scheduled languages of India viz., Assamese, Bangla, Bodo, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kashmiri, Konkani, Malayalam, Meitei (Manipuri), Marathi, Nepali, Odia, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.
For example, understanding how geometrical axioms lead to a theorem about properties of triangles counts as understanding the cause of the proven property of the right triangle.
Plato's Republic The Republic by Plato represents the first major Western work to treat the theory of poetry.
Unit 3 is the Central Discourse Unit (CDU) of the text, since all units point to it directly or indirectly.
This reveals that any of those new point sets for one of the additional works on different lines of word classes is located approximately on a different vertical line.
Then, the corpus is annotated automatically on several levels: morphosyntantic, named entities recognition (e.g.
According to Denick, social imaginaries enable social practices by providing ways to understand the world.
In this example, each speaker takes a stance with the words that they say, but only Speaker A explicitly demonstrates their stance.
In the 1960s she worked at the Sociolinguistic Research Centre with Basil Bernstein, on issues concerning the relation of language and the distribution of forms of consciousness.
clause constituents (the apples) (are) (on the chair), phrase constituents (on) (the chair), group constituents (the) (apples), word constituents (apple)(s).
Reference Bibles may contain the original languages and a translation, or several translations by themselves, for ease of comparison and study; Origen's Hexapla (Greek for "sixfold") placed six versions of the Old Testament side by side.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English represents a large-scale corpus-based grammar focussing in its grammatical description of English mainly on "functional interpretation of the quantitative findings" (p.
van Dijk was a professor of discourse studies at the University of Amsterdam from 1968 until 2004, and since 1999 he has taught at the Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona.
Hierarchical latent tree analysis (HLTA) is an alternative to LDA, which models word co-occurrence using a tree of latent variables and the states of the latent variables, which correspond to soft clusters of documents, are interpreted as topics.
She is a researcher at Laboratório de Estudos Urbanos - Unicamp (Laboratory of Urban Studies of the University of Campinas), professor and coordinator of the Science Program of the Universidade do Vale da Linguagem do Sapucaí and professor of the University of Campinas.
His doctoral thesis, completed under the supervision of Ernesto Laclau, was entitled ‘New Directions in the Theory of Ideology and the Case of Green Ideology’.
SKELL A free web service based on Sketch Engine and aimed at language learners and teachers is SKELL (formerly SkELL).
The paradigmatic formulation of this approach and of its various conceptual innovations can be found in Laclau’s and Mouffe’s Hegemony and Socialist Strategy, first published in 1985, as well as in subsequent works.
Word sketches were first introduced by the British corpus linguist Adam Kilgarriff and exploited within the Sketch Engine corpus management system.
Relations to linguistic theories Interactional linguistics has connections to various linguistic approaches, such as discourse analysis and conversation analysis, and is used to investigate the relationship between grammatical structure and real-time interaction and language use.
However, countries such as the United States, Canada and the UK do not consider these techniques as legally valid evidence in court.
Discursive psychology therefore starts with psychological phenomena as things that are constructed, attended to, and understood in interaction.
A number of quite basic categories and concepts do not seem to have been thought through with sufficient care; this results in a remarkable amount of unclarity and inconsistency in the analysis, and in the organization of the grammar.
Such a growth process results in the Yule–Simon distribution, which has been shown to fit word frequency versus rank in language and population versus city rank better than Zipf's law.
It exploits Sketch Engine's proprietary GDEX (Good Dictionary Examples) scoring function to provide authentic example sentences for specific target words.
Concordancers are also used in corpus linguistics to retrieve alphabetically or otherwise sorted lists of linguistic data from the corpus in question, which the corpus linguist then analyzes.
FPDA analyses the ways in which speakers are 'positioned' by different and often competing 'discourses' according to Michel Foucault's (1972: 49) definition as 'practices that systematically form the objects of which they speak'.
See also References External links Ozdic Collocation Dictionary A Small System Storing Spanish Collocations (Igor A.
These can vary depending on individual priorities, as they are not as well established, but they tend to prioritize data justice and community-oriented politics.
Discursive dominance or discursive power is the ultimate emergence of one discourse as dominant among competing ones in their struggle for dominance.
In this sense, language use or discourse may be called more or less 'appropriate' in a given context.
Topic models are commonly used to organize and discover latent features in large collections of unstructured text and other forms of big data.
By the early decades of the sixteenth century, vernacular versions of Aristotle's Poetics appeared, culminating in Lodovico Castelvetro's Italian editions of 1570 and 1576.
This means that it aims to represent women's voices that have been 'silenced' or marginalised since FPDA considers that these have been historically absent in many cultures.
The proper noun (or the common noun when there is no proper noun) functions as the head of the nominal group; all other constituents work as modifiers of the head.
This theoretical and analytical orientation is known today as the 'Essex School of discourse analysis'.
In a society there are competing discourses (or narratives) regarding anything and everything such as feminism, racism, casteism, communalism, regionalism, economic development, democracy, governance, etc.
He is the author of several books on contemporary French presidential speeches evaluated scientifically and statistically via software-supported analysis.
From linguistic point of view, RST proposes a different view of text organization than most linguistic theories.
Early usage during the 20th century included writings in 1914 by the National Child Labor Committee criticizing child labor standards in the United States.
It is one of the ways in which linguists look at the intersections of human language and human society; other subfields that take this perspective are language planning, minority language studies, quantitative sociolinguistics, and sociohistorical linguistics, among others.
Colin, 2004 (Portuguese (Brazil) translation: São Paulo, Contexto, 2006; Romanian translation: Iasi, Institutul European, 2008; Polish translation: Varsovie, Instytut Badaǹ Literackich, 2015).
He was one of the editors of the seminal book Language and control (1979), which helped establish critical linguistics as an academic field.
It came to designate the instinctive understanding of complex geo-political problems by the Nazis, which allowed them to openly begin invasions, twist facts or violate human rights, in the name of a higher ideal and in accordance to their theory of the world.
Of this work on semantic variation, Jay Lemke, adjunct professor of communication at the University of California, writes: The results of this work were at least twofold.
Its growing use is a response to the increasingly narrow association of the term sociolinguistics with specific types of research involving the quantitative analysis of linguistic features and their correlation to sociological variables.
Chilton developed a three-dimensional model to analyze semantic structure in natural languages, based on spatial cognition and using a formalism derived from vector geometry.
The AsoSoft text corpus is the first large-scale Kurdish text corpus, collected and processed by the AsoSoft research and development group.
External links Sketch Engine website List of corpora available in Sketch Engine OneClick terms – online term extractor with term extraction technology from Sketch Engine SKELL – Sketch Engine for language learning
In a comparable corpus, the texts are of the same kind and cover the same content, but they are not translations of each other.
By contrast, "Those" is a deictic on the uppermost rank and is applied to the head on the uppermost rank, "apples"; here, "those" means "You know which apples I mean—the ones over there".
WordSmith Tools is - along with several other software products similar in nature - an internationally popular program for the work based on corpus-linguistic methodology.
Thus, the human species had to "make sense of the complex world in which it evolved: to classify, or group into categories, the objects and events within its awareness".
Ethicist Jack Marshall described "Think of the children!" as a tactic used in an attempt to end discussion by invoking an unanswerable argument.
The term as it is currently used not only clarifies this distinction, but highlights an awareness of the necessity for transdisciplinary approaches to language, culture and society.
Wallis and Nelson (2001) first introduced what they called the 3A perspective: Annotation, Abstraction and Analysis.
In 1970 he was appointed a lecturer at the University of East Anglia, where he taught logic, history of science and discourse analysis.
The units of grammar form a hierarchy, a scale from largest to smallest, which he proposed as a sentence, clause, group/phrase, word, and morpheme.
Halliday follows Louis Hjelmslev (1899–1965) in seeing linguistics as the study of both instances of language and the linguistic system.
"CORPUS RESEARCH ON HEDGES IN LINGUISTICS AND EFL JOURNAL PAPERS." International Journal of Education 9.1 (2017): 45-52.
The traditional method of performing collocation extraction is to find a formula based on the statistical quantities of those words to calculate a score associated to every word pairs.
He was renowned for his groundbreaking theories in cognitive psychology, especially in relation to text comprehension.
Its usage varies, but it generally refers to speaking or writing in a vague, trivial, or nonsensical manner without making any clear or important points.
Access Currently the interface of GICR is in beta stage, so access to the search in the corpora is provided and is free, but is available for researchers on request.
In his original 1988 article, Harris also posited that bitext represents how translators hold their source and target texts together in their mental working memories as they progress.
There are about seven main types of collocations: adjective + noun, noun + noun (such as collective nouns), noun + verb, verb + noun, adverb + adjective, verbs + prepositional phrase (phrasal verbs), and verb + adverb.
Some fiction genres are highlighted separately: children’s literature, folklore, dramatic works, and scripts.
The relevant grammatical systems include Theme, Given and New, as well as the systems of cohesion, such as Reference, Substitution, and Ellipsis.
The topics produced by topic models are generated through a variety of mathematical frameworks, including probabilistic generative models, matrix factorization methods based on word co-occurrence, and clustering algorithms applied to semantic embeddings.
While arguments might be thought as a problem with a marriage, Connie "script formulates" them as actually characteristic of a "rock solid" marriage.
In turn, the cultural perception of the medical gaze was the doctor’s near-mystical capability to discover hidden truth.
Alongside stratification and metafunction, it is one of the global semiotic dimensions that define the organization of language in context.
In the treatment of illness, the intellectual and material structures of la clinique, the teaching hospital, made possible the inspection, examination, and analysis of the human body, yet the clinic was part of the socio-economic interests of power.
They are social systems plus meaning, such as verbal language, gesture, posture, dress, painting, architecture, etc.
A second edition was published in 1994, and then a third, in which he collaborated with Christian Matthiessen, in 2004.
Halliday argues that linguists must take both into account: "For a linguist, to describe language without accounting for text is sterile; to describe text without relating it to the system is vacuous".
Spread and naming Graduates of the programme are now employed by universities in many parts of the world, while the programme itself is run by three members of staff at Essex: Aletta Norval, David Howarth and Jason Glynos, all ex-PhD students of Laclau.
In 1976 he moved to Australia as a foundation professor of linguistics at the University of Sydney, where he remained until he retired in 1987.
The interest of discourse analysis is to consider that discourse articulates text and social places.
Understood by many as Kaplan's original work, contrastive rhetoric was increasingly characterized as static, and linked to contrastive analysis, a movement associated with structural linguistics and behavioralism.
Collocation extraction is the task of using a computer to extract collocations automatically from a corpus.
A discourse topic is the central participant or idea of a stretch of connected discourse or dialogue.
Hirst, G.: Review of 'The Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English', Computational Linguistics 27/1, 2001, pp.
The research focus of the project was on the relationship between populist discourse and democracy and it involved a variety of research and dissemination activities as well as the creation of an international Observatory of populist discourse.
In nominal groups, the ideational structure is by far the most significant in premodifying the head.
Under this perspective, data are treated as tools to achieve some form of justice rather than as a neutral resource.
More recently, social contexts tend to be defined in terms of the social identity being construed and displayed in text and talk by language users.
The notion is often confused with the related notion of sentence-level topic/theme, which is frequently defined as "what the sentence is about".
It may provide information about the context or allow the user to search by positional attributes, such as lemma, tag, etc.
Bolshakov) Example of collocations for the word "Surgery" at wordassociations.net Example of collocations for the word "study" at collocations.org
Retrieval time required to access conceptual knowledge seemed to be directly related to the number of hierarchies the speaker needed to "traverse" to access the knowledge.
However, there is debate about the different sub-systems that should be recognised, and various researchers have since suggested modifications of the initial description.
Connecting the two points for the noun reveals a monotonically decreasing line, while connecting the two points for any of the other word classes results in a monotonically increasing line.
When the algorithm converges on a stable residual set, a final decision list of the target word is obtained.
In such theories, language plays no role in bringing about the existence of the thing to be understood or expressed.
Some dictionaries that include phrasal examples and phraseology have also been incorporated, including the Ukrainian dictionary by Borys Hrinchenko and the Russian-Ukrainian idiomatic dictionary by I.
(1987), 'Discourses of community and conflict: the organisation of social categories in accounts of a 'riot'.' British Journal of Social Psychology, 26: 25 – 40.
Discourse analysis, according to its own terms at least, seeks to "unfix and destabilise" the accepted meanings of everyday language, and to reveal how the dominant discourse "marginalises and oppresses...
For example, in pop culture, Yoda's speech often utilizes such syntactic construction, such as when he says 'much to learn you still have' to Luke Skywalker.
{\displaystyle \ {\sqrt {-i\;}}~.} The only mathematical expression Zipf used looks like ab2 = constant, which he "borrowed" from Alfred J.
Integration is a constraint satisfaction process that ensures that those constructions that are linked together become strongly activated, whereas contradictory and irrelevant elements become deactivated.
See also Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English Cambridge Grammar of the English Language == Notes ==
These can be reconstructed only in a very limited way, and often their genetic relationship to other languages remains unclear.
Reviewer Tomasz Kamusella wrote:After sustained, in-depth discussion, the author rightly notes that there is no linguistic or sociolinguistic basis that would justify or necessitate the splitting of Serbo-Croatian into its (to date) four successor languages.
In one prominent model, Martin Joos describes five styles in spoken English: Frozen: Also referred to as static register.
Applications of DP: spoken and textual approaches In the past few years, one particular strand of discursive psychology has focused its analytic gaze on spoken interaction.
Multiple empirical studies have found SCAN techniques to be unreliable at correctly separating true and false statements.
Early life Trew was born in Cape Town to father, Antony Trew, naval officer and author and mother Nora Houthakker.
Dialog act recognition, also known as spoken utterance classification, is an important part of spoken language understanding.
Charaudeau), Paris, Seuil, 2002 (Portuguese (Brazil): São Paulo, Contexto, 2004; Spanish translation: Buenos Aires, Amorrortu, 2005; Arabic translation: Tunis, Centre National de Traduction, 2008).
In Dialogue, Russian International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Bekasovo Katinskaya A., Sharoff S.
Corpus linguistics is an empirical method for the study of language by text corpus (plural corpora).
This law is named after the American linguist George Kingsley Zipf, and is still an important concept in quantitative linguistics.
White's approach to appraisal regionalised the concept into three interacting domains: 'attitude', 'engagement' and 'graduation'.
His speeches decoded by the machine) uses artificial Intelligence to analyze Emmanuel Macron's speech patterns.
Walter Kintsch (May 30, 1932 – March 24, 2023) was an American psychologist and academic who was professor emeritus of Psychology at the University of Colorado Boulder (United States).
"Gdje je prisutan jezični purizam, prisutan je i nacionalizam: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [The linguistic purism and nationalism come together: Interview with Snježana Kordić] (in Serbo-Croatian).
Their disagreement escalated in the pages of Critical Inquiry in 2006, when in a spate of essays the two argued in an increasingly hostile manner about political action, Marxism and class struggle, Hegel, populism, and the Lacanian Real.
For example, though an individual may think that they are just 'born male' this is, for Laclau not the case: 'maleness' is a socially constructed category that has no innate meaning.
ISBN 9780195088366.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: ref duplicates default (link) Williams, Raymond (1976).
To waffle, particularly in the U.S., can also denote indecision about particular subjects, or changing one's mind frequently on a topic.
He studied political science at Panteion University (Athens) and discourse analysis at Essex University.
geographical names or people) and partial syntantic information (which also allows for the visualization of dependency trees).
Grammar as systemic Halliday's early paper shows that the notion of "system" has been part of his theory from its origins.
It was based on MicroConcord co-developed by Mike Scott and Tim Johns, published by Oxford University Press in 1993.
Sketch Engine is a corpus manager and text analysis software developed by Lexical Computing since 2003.
She studied Slavic Studies, Eastern European History, and Linguistics at the University of Vienna, earning her PhD in 1974 (sub auspiciis Praesidentis Rei Publicae) with a dissertation entitled The Language of Defendants at Court.
Some words are often found together because they make up a compound noun, for example 'riding boots' or 'motor cyclist' or ‘collocation extraction’ its very self.
In the study of language and other phenomena, including other semiotic phenomena, what can be observed is an instance of an underlying potential.
WordSmith Tools is a software package primarily for linguists, in particular for work in the field of corpus linguistics.
By contrast, Eastern poetics developed lyric poetry, rather than the representational mimetic poetry of the Western world.
Anna Wierzbicka (1997), probably the best known cultural linguist writing in English today, studies languages as parts of cultures evolving in society and history.
The same relation is found for personal incomes (where it is called Pareto principle), number of people watching the same TV channel, notes in music, cells transcriptomes, and more.
Therefore, when the patient's body entered the field of medicine, it also entered the field of power where the patient can be manipulated by the professional authority of the medical gaze.
Censorship Scott Beattie wrote in his 2009 book, Community, Space and Online Censorship, that the question "Will no one think of the children?" was often raised by individuals advocating censorship out of a concern that youth might view material deemed inappropriate.
Contributions to systemic functional linguistics Matthiessen has worked across many areas of linguistics, but has specialized, theoretically, in the modelling of language from the systemic functional linguistics, including in systemic functional grammar.
The next step which made interactional linguistics develop was the important work on conversation analysis.
Regional annotation The corpus’s regional annotation is based on the modern administrative division of Ukraine.
This correlation is due to the fact that more educated parents use more lexises when speaking to their children as opposed to parents who are less educated (Hart & Risley, 1995; Hoff, 2003 a; Huttenlocher, Vasilyeva, Waterfall, Vevea & Hedges, in press).
A corpus manager usually represents a complex tool that allows one to perform searches for language forms or sequences.
Critical data studies Critical data studies, the academic discipline that produced the notion of data imaginaries, has its own imaginary.
Within the area of corpus linguistics, collocation is defined as a sequence of words or terms which co-occur more often than would be expected by chance.
The analysis of appraisal has also become influential outside Systemic Functional Linguistics, in various types of discourse analysis.
These corpora are available in the corpus management system Sketch Engine, currently, there exist TenTen corpora for more than 30 languages (such as English TenTen corpus, Arabic TenTen corpus, Spanish TenTen corpus, Russian Tenten corpus,).
Other languages have such limited corpora that some important words—e.g., some pronouns—are lacking in the corpora.
High-quality parallel data is difficult to obtain, however, especially for under-resourced languages.
Other features include the ability to search for collocations, frequency statistics as well as metadata information about the processed text.
In spoken language analysis, an utterance is a continuous piece of speech, by one person, before or after which there is silence on the part of the person.
The JRC-Acquis Multilingual Parallel Corpus of the total body of European Union (EU) law: Acquis Communautaire with 231 language pairs.
Ōno's lexical law (original version) Obtain the rates of usage for four word classes: nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adjectival noun for Man'yōshū and Genji Monogatari.
Plot an additional point corresponding to any of the other seven classic works on each line of the word classes.
The overview of existing TenTen corpora can be found at https://www.sketchengine.co.uk/documentation/tenten-corpora/ Timestamped JSI web corpora – web corpora of news articles crawled from a list of RSS feeds.
The following example is a title and summary, appearing at the top of an article in Scientific American magazine (adapted from Ramachandran and Anstis, 1986).
Stancetaking is viewed as a social action that shares the speaker's view of an object with their audience, sometimes inviting listeners to take their own stance as well.
Each of these has various sub-systems; for example, 'attitude' includes 'affect' (expression of emotion), 'appreciation' (evaluation of things/entities), and 'judgement' (evaluation of people and their behaviour), with different choices within these sub-systems.
A full account of epistêmê is given in Posterior Analytics, where Aristotle argues that knowledge of necessary, rather than contingent, truths regarding causation is foundational for episteme.
There are also a number of functions offering statistical summaries of the collected texts References External links Official website
Comprehension: A Paradigm for Cognition, Cambridge University Press, 1998, (ISBN 978-0521629867) The Representation of Meaning in Memory, Erlbaum, 1974.
In linguistics and discourse analysis, semantic macrostructures are the overall, global meanings of discourse, usually also described in terms of topic, gist, or upshot.
What varies with context is how well-positioned a subject must be with respect to a proposition to count as "knowing" it.
Parallel text alignment is the identification of the corresponding sentences in both halves of the parallel text.
W.: "Review of "Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English" by Douglas Biber, Stig Johansson, Geoffrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan", English World-Wide 22/1, 2001, pp.
During the last two decades, his work has focused on the political and psychosocial implications of what he calls "debt societies" of Southern Europe (especially Greece) and on the emerging ideological cleavage between populist and anti-populist discourses within this context.
As these dictionaries became "less word-centred and more phrase-centred", more attention was paid to collocation.
Macrostructures of discourse are distinguished from its microstructures, that is, the local structures of words, clauses, sentences or turns in conversation.
External links Nazi Language and Terminology at United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Index to the LTI (German) Selections from LTI by David Greenbaum
In addition, a speaker chooses some meaning relation in the process of joining or binding clauses together.
Nelson Francis, the work was based on an analysis of the Brown Corpus, which is a structured and balanced corpus of one million words of American English from the year 1961.
Additional terms such as diatype, genre, text types, style, acrolect, mesolect, basilect, sociolect, and ethnolect, among many others, may be used to cover the same or similar ground.
Examples are Dalmatian, Etruscan, also known as Rasenna, Dadanitic, a Semitic language that may be close to classical Arabic, Lombardic, Burgundian, Vandalic, and Oscan, Umbrian, and Faliscan, all Italic languages that were related to Latin.
Three types of stance are often distinguished: Epistemic stance is the expression (through verbal or other means) of a relative difference between interactants' relation to some knowledge (i.e.
At one end is "instance"; at the other is the "system", the whole potential to which the instance relates.
Once these dichotomies had been set up, the problem arose of locating and maintaining the boundaries between them." Studies of grammar Fundamental categories Halliday's first major work on grammar was "Categories of the Theory of Grammar", in the journal Word in 1961.
Whether they like it or not, they must become increasingly concerned with the many anthropological, sociological, and psychological problems which invade the field of language.
Utilizing Gumperz's framework this way that showed that this type of therapy is perhaps creating a bigger divide between patients and staff.
The research on dialog acts have increased since 1999, after spoken dialog systems became commercial reality.
The narrower meaning of corpus manager refers only to the server side or the corpus query engine, whereas the client side is simply called the user interface.
Sociocultural linguistics is thus "the broad interdisciplinary field concerned with the intersection of language, culture, and society" (Bucholtz and Hall 2005: 5).
School founded The approach developed by Laclau and Mouffe provided the teaching backbone of the graduate programme in Ideology and Discourse Analysis Laclau founded at the University of Essex in the early 1980s.
Contemporary interpretations Michel Foucault For Foucault, an épistémè is the guiding unconsciousness of subjectivity within a given epoch – subjective parameters which form an historical a priori.
Using these tools, dictionaries such as the Macmillan English Dictionary and the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English included boxes or panels with lists of frequent collocations.
She is a member of the editorial boards of multiple linguistic journals and co-editor of Discourse and Society and Critical Discourse Studies.
She previously worked as a professor and Chair of Cultural Studies at the University of Bradford in West Yorkshire.
Once removed these particles depending on their nature may have adverse effects on the environment and must be treated carefully.
For chemical reactions, it requires extensive knowledge of both chemical reaction hazards and fluid flow.
See also Expanded metal Faraday cage Gauze Wire gauze Heating mantle Latticework Sieve Mesh size, a scale for classifying mesh (sieves) used for grading particles by size.
A vessel with internal pressure lower than atmospheric may also be called a hypobaric vessel or a vacuum vessel.
Pitch was familiar in 9th-century Iraq, derived from petroleum that became accessible from natural fields in the region.
This means that the Compressed Gas Association has classified this connection as number 540, the thread bore is 0.903 inches, with 14 threads per inch.
The origin of the policeman and its name cannot be identified for sure but some clues led back to the 19th century from German chemist Carl Remigius Fresenius.
The vessel must be designed to withstand the load of someone standing on these ladders, and even withstand a person standing on the roof.
Although the thermal efficiency of the bottle oven was low, with approximately 70% of the energy derived from fuel being lost as waste heat, these kilns remained the primary method of firing pottery until the mid-twentieth century.
Leakage, and its interaction with other losses in the flow field, is complex; and hence, at the tip, it has a more pronounced effect than secondary flow.
Gas flow The stream of hot gas can either be moving toward the discharge end from the feed end (known as co-current flow), or toward the feed end from the discharge end (known as counter-current flow).
There are two known major groups of earthenware and celadon kiln sites from the Goryeo period: those in Gangjin County and more in Buan County.
Each pressure vessel that conforms to the ASME code has its own MDMT, and this temperature is stamped on the vessel nameplate.
This type of plate evaporator is frequently applied in the dairy and fermentation industries since they have spatial flexibility.
In principle, this eliminates tank breathing loss and greatly reduces the evaporative loss of the stored liquid.
Instead, PAC is generally added directly to other process units, such as raw water intakes, rapid mix basins, clarifiers, and gravity filters.
Comminution is important in mineral processing, where rocks are broken into small particles to help liberate the ore from gangue.
Types U-tube The heat exchanger usually consists of one or two u-tubes through which the carrier fluid, usually water, circulates.
The kilns were built in 1886 to produce charcoal to fuel the smelter at Nicholia, which smelted lead and silver ore from the Viola Mine about 10 miles east of the kilns.
After getting deflected the particles stay at the inner wall of the particle collector tube and are completely uncharged.
The kilns each have three openings: a top opening, a door at ground level, and a rear window with a ramp for wood wagons.
The pump of an evaporator may need to be changed if the evaporator needs to be used to concentrate a highly viscous solution.
To emphasize the small particle sizes possible with this new technology, it has been described as "nano" spray drying.
Efficiency exceeding 100 % Flue gas condensation may cause the heat recovered to exceed the Lower Heating Value of the input fuel, and thus an efficiency greater than 100%.
Kinetics Although the physical reactor is relatively simple, the hydrodynamics in the reactor are extremely complex.
There is currently only one unit approved as Case 12 under the US National Standard - ASME PVHO-1 (2019).
Dauenhauer, Professor - University of Minnesota 2019: Yuriy Roman-Leschkov, Professor - Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2023: Rajamani Gounder, Professor - Purdue University See also Molecular design software References External links ISCRE web site
A slug catcher is a type of vapor–liquid separator that is able to receive a large inflow of liquid at random times.
With a solid phase catalyst and fluid phase reagents, this is proportional to the exposed area, efficiency of diffusion of reagents in and products out, and efficacy of mixing.
Because the cooling water, which is chemically treated fresh water, is at a temperature of 70–80 °C (158–176 °F), it would not be possible to flash off any water vapor unless the pressure in the heat exchanger vessel is dropped.
In many cases, the tubes of a rising film evaporator are usually between 3–10 metres (9.8–32.8 ft) in height with a diameter of between 25–50 millimetres (0.98–1.97 in).
Scrubbers on ships Scrubbers on ships were first used for the production of inert gas for oil tanker operations.
Due to FRP's weakness to buckling, but immense strength against tensile forces and its resistance to corrosion, a hydrostatic tank is a logical application for the composite.
A recuperative multi-tube cooler is a rotary drum cooler used for continuous processes in chemical engineering.
History There are two known major groups of earthenware and celadon kiln sites from the Goryeo period: these in Gangjin County and those in Buan County in North Jeolla Province.
This makes this type of filter particularly suitable in bioburden testing, as common pore sizes (i.e.
The water can then be drained off by opening a valve in the bottom of the bowl and letting it run out, until only the fuel remains.
In seawater desalination plants, fouling may reduce the gained output ratio by two-digit percentages (the gained output ratio is an equivalent that puts the mass of generated distillate in relation to the steam used in the process).
The American Standard Safety System (ASSS) is a connection system for gas cylinders with a volume exceeding 25 cubic feet.
Since historically most combustion processes have not condensed the fuel, usual efficiency calculations assume the combustion products are not condensed.
Industry Concern With the publication of BS EN 13121-3, BS 4994:1987 Specification for design and construction of vessels and tanks in reinforced plastics is declared obsolescent in European Union.
Some treatments may be performed on the hyperbaric stretcher, provided the patient is sufficiently fit for unattended recompression.
Wet scrubbers are only effective for removal of soluble mercury species, such as oxidized mercury, Hg2+.
Corrosion-resistant materials for these scrubbers are very expensive; therefore, these devices are not used in applications where corrosion or sticky materials could cause problems.
Shock losses are accompanied by shock-boundary-layer interaction losses, boundary-layer losses in profile secondary flow, and tip clearance effects.
In relation to that, the Artisan Rising Film Evaporator is designed to eliminate the majority of the volatile components before stripping and is usually used as a flash evaporator or pre-heater.
While fans are commonly used to lower body temperature through evaporative cooling, there is a point at which the convection effect of moving air can counteract this benefit.
Both kilns are 30 feet (9.1 m) tall and 25 feet (7.6 m) in diameter and were built from rocks and mud.
People taking medication, including birth control pills and antidepressants, are advised to avoid novelty foods or drinks that use activated charcoal coloring since it can render the medication ineffective.
In some cases it may be the lowest temperature at which significant stresses will occur and not the lowest possible temperature.
A well-engineered kiln, when the power is cut off, will swing pendulum-like many times before coming to rest.
In addition, rotating parts are subject to vibration-induced fatigue or wear, causing them to become unbalanced.
The air-to-cloth ratio is the volumetric flow rate of air (m3/minute; SI m3/second) flowing through a dust collector's inlet duct divided by the total cloth area (m2) in the filters.
Additional advantage is the availability of the option to operate the evaporator as a continuous process which is overall more energy and time efficient than a batch process operation.
A centrifugal evaporator is a device used in chemical and biochemical laboratories for the efficient and gentle evaporation of solvents from many samples at the same time, and samples contained in microtitre plates.
Instantly removed liquid which flows into rear chamber through siphon pipe, creates vacuum underneath the filter medium.
The two oceanauts, Albert Falco and Claude Wesly, were expected to spend at least five hours a day outside the station, and were subject to daily medical exams.
Wire mesh can be fabricated to produce park benches, waste baskets and other baskets for material handling.
The listing included two charcoal kilns that each are about six feet in diameter and four feet deep, built out of stone.
The advantages of a good back-mixed bed include excellent temperature control and, by reducing bed plugging and channeling, low and constant pressure drops.
When a reactor is brought into operation, either for the first time or after a shutdown, it is in a transient state, and key process variables change with time.
The sides are scraped by blades made of a rigid plastic material to prevent damage to the scraped surface.
Requirements and Compliance Equipment to be used in Australia or New Zealand must meet the following requirements: Compliance with the Standards listed in this Standard, including international Standards, or those equivalently agreed between all parties.
It also used in biological laboratories, to transfer tissue culture cells from a plate to a suspension.
There are several types of batch reactor cooling jackets, including single external jacket, half-coil jacket, and constant flux heat jacket.
The vibrations to the deck are directed in vertical component to assist in fluidization of the material whereas the horizontal component of the vibration, support in transporting materials along the tray.
Pre-filling inspection of the cylinder Common sizes The below are example cylinder sizes and do not constitute an industry standard.
On large vessels, it can take many minutes to adjust the temperature of the fluid in the cooling jacket.
A Butte, Montana, man named Warren King built 16 kilns from brick made from local clay, possibly obtained from Jump Creek on the east side of the Birch Creek valley.
This is because with increased drying rate, the drying process in the vibrating fluidized bed will be shorter giving the vibrating fluidized bed an overall better efficiency.
High end fuel bladders offer a high degree of protection of the stored liquids, ensuring the contents never come in contact with air.
Leakage-flow induced three-dimensionality, like the mixing of leakage flow with vortex formation, entrainment process, diffusion and convection.
This basic idea combines the flow of large bulks of product good heat transfer with continuous movement of the product for even drying results.
The ANFD class of filter dryer consists of a main insulated jacketed vessel and filtration base which can be lowered for inspection and replacement of the filter media.
Another mechanically aided scrubber, the induced-spray, consists of a whirling rotor submerged in a pool of liquid.
A Turbo Filter-Dryer is another class of filter dryer which also incorporates the listed operations, but works on a different set of filtration principle.
The rubber tube should be left protruding slightly beyond the end of the glass tube and sealed together with a little bicycle [i.e.
If the cylinder's contents are liquid, but become a gas at ambient conditions, this is commonly referred to as a boiling liquid expanding vapour explosion (BLEVE).
In 1957, the trials ship HMS Cumberland, an obsolete heavy cruiser, was used for the first tests of the 'flexing element' distiller, where non-rigid heating coils flexed continually in service and so broke the scale free as soon as it formed a stiff layer.
Maintenance problems As with almost any device, the addition of moving parts leads to an increase in potential maintenance problems.
A single vessel can carry out a sequence of different operations without the need to break containment.
In 1946, Pickels cofounded Spinco (Specialized Instruments Corp.) to market analytical and preparative ultracentrifuges based on his design.
Generally the Division 2 rules are more onerous than in Division 1 with respect to materials, design and nondestructive examinations but higher design stress intensity values are allowed.
If these substances are not removed before the fuel enters the system, they will cause rapid wear and failure of the fuel pump and injectors.
Although originally applied to the petroleum and petrochemical industries, its general methodology combining reaction chemistry and chemical engineering concepts allows optimization of a variety of systems where modeling or engineering of reactions is needed.
The following provides a sample of some of the Standards applicable to pressure equipment under this Standard.
ISCRE symposia are a unique gathering place for reaction engineers where research gains are consolidated and new frontiers explored.
Iodine number is defined as the milligrams of iodine adsorbed by one gram of carbon when the iodine concentration in the residual filtrate is at a concentration of 0.02 normal (i.e.
Since this involves practically no downhole equipment, these systems usually only go by the name of borehole heat exchangers (BHT).
Most of the Sadang-ri kilns date to around the 12th and 13th centuries, although they are in poorer condition, as many of them had been converted to farmland in the past.
Innovations included decorative techniques such as "swirl ware"; pottery made by combining two or more different colors of clay.
Instead of a cap, cylinders sometimes have a protective collar or neck ring around the valve assembly which has an opening for access to fit a regulator or other fitting to the valve outlet, and access to operate the valve.
This liquid rate is adjusted by varying the speed of the ebullating pump, a canned centrifugal pump which controls the flow of ebullating liquid obtained from the internal vapor/liquid separator inside the reactor.
This configuration allows researchers to control parameters such as oxygen partial pressure (pO₂), total pressure, and gas composition, enabling studies of oxidation, reduction, volatilization, and other high-temperature chemical reactions.
Standing column well If no casing is installed and groundwater is permitted to charge the system, this arrangement is no longer a BHT, but rather a standing column well.
It is made of flexible material and when the internal pressure matches the external pressure, it is collapsible, which can make transfer under pressure possible with relatively small hyperbaric chambers.
This is less effective because dense precipitates may become compacted at the bottom of the beaker, while light precipitates may be dispersed on the walls of the beaker.
This variability reduces the risk of errors such as administering the wrong gas to a patient, or utilizing equipment calibrated for one gas with another.
Aquabulle Launched for the first time in March 1978, this underwater shelter suspended in midwater (between 0 and 60 metres) is a mini scientific observatory 2.8 metres high by 2.5 metres in diameter.
The standard was prepared under the European Commission Mandate 83/139/EEC the Pressure Equipment Directive (PED).
Filter dryers are designed for washing and isolating solids with or without integrated containment systems.
That is, given the same space-time (or residence time), a reaction will proceed to a higher percentage completion in a PFR than in a CSTR.
Construction Recuperative multi-tube coolers essentially exist of a turning rotor which is mostly driven via chain.
There are no surviving remains of the town of Woodland, a short distance south of the kilns, where the kiln workers lived.
Davis, 2003, The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., ISBN 007245007X, ISBN 9780072450071 ISCRE Symposia The most important series of symposia are the International Symposia on Chemical Reaction Engineering or ISCRE conferences.
In geology, comminution refers to a natural process during faulting in the upper part of the Earth's crust.
It was very energy inefficient, a 1937 British Pottery Manufactures Federation publication stated that in an updraught oven only 11% of the energy produced by burning the coal heated the saggers and the pottery they contained.
A vortex breaker on the liquid outlet prevents the formation of vortices and of vapor being drawn into the liquid outlet.
Various factors are considered in determining the correct type of dryer for any given application, including the material to be dried, drying process requirements, production requirements, final product quality requirements and available facility space.
The EPA has set clear guidelines for the use of secondary containment concerning fuel bladders and imposes fines for discharging of fuel into the environment.
The addition of a combustion chamber at the feed end helps ensure efficient fuel usage, and homogenous drying air temperatures.
Thus flue gas condensation is normally implemented at biomass fired boilers and waste incinerators connected district heating grids with relatively low return temperatures (below approximately 55 °C (131 °F)).
Vertical Peeler Centrifuge Vertical peeler centrifuge is more cost efficient compared to horizontal Krauss-Maffei peeler centrifuge due to its compact design.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advises against fan use when temperatures exceed 32.2 °C (90 °F), while the World Health Organization (WHO) suggests avoiding fan use above 40 °C (104 °F).
[2] The filter element matrix consists of molded sintered polyethylene (PE) with a reinforced mounting header.
Because the coolant in the pressurizer is quite hot during normal operations, the space above the liquid coolant is vaporized coolant (steam).
Patent US158764 was granted in 1875 to Conrad Wendel and William Florich for an improvement in centrifugal evaporators.
Typical products which can be handled are silicic acid, carbon black, pigments, aluminium oxide, magnesium oxide, etc.
Solidification fouling Solidification fouling occurs when a component of the flowing fluid "freezes" onto a surface forming a solid fouling deposit.
Recommender systems and content discovery platforms are active information filtering systems that attempt to present to the user information items (film, television, music, books, news, web pages) the user is interested in.
Etymology According to the Oxford English Dictionary, kiln was derived from the words cyline, cylene, cyln(e) in Old English, in turn derived from Latin culina ('kitchen').
A fire-tube boiler exploded at the Grover Shoe Factory in Brockton, Massachusetts, on March 20, 1905, which resulted in the deaths of 58 people and injured 150.
This would mean that a sudden pressure change can provide a hammer effect to the entire reactor coolant system.
Unlike radial machines, the main flow moves transversely across the impeller, passing the blading twice.
These experiments are difficult to process these powders by fluidisation due to the unpredictable behaviours of particles.
Disadvantages of regenerators The major disadvantage of rotary and fixed-matrix regenerators is that there is always some mixing of the fluid streams, and they can not be completely separated.
For those Cases that have been adopted will appear in the appropriate Code Cases book: "Boilers and Pressure Vessels" and "Nuclear Components." Codes Cases are usually intended to be incorporated in the Code in a later edition.
A relief valve or pressure relief valve (PRV) is a type of safety valve used to control or limit the pressure in a system; excessive pressure might otherwise build up and create a process upset, instrument or equipment failure, explosion, or fire.
One such example is the preparation of ketenes which may employ a tube furnace in the 'ketene lamp'.
A mesh is a barrier made of interlaced strands of metal, fiber or other flexible or ductile materials.
In non-hazardous systems, the fluid is often discharged to the atmosphere by a suitable discharge pipework designed to prevent rainwater ingress which can affect the set lift pressure, and positioned not to cause a hazard to personnel.
Subsequently, it undergoes assessment criteria which will measure the performance of the previous stage in relation to solutions of problems.
The most common types of industrial dryers are fluidized bed dryers, rotary dryers, rolling bed dryers, conduction dryers, convection dryers, pharmaceutical dryers, suspension/paste dryers, toroidal bed or TORBED dryers and dispersion dryers.
At low liquid levels the roof eventually lands and a vapor space forms between the liquid surface and the roof, similar to a fixed roof tank.
A further difficulty with submarines was the need to produce high-quality water for topping up their large storage batteries.
Critical exposure temperature (CET) is the lowest anticipated temperature to which the vessel will be subjected, taking into consideration lowest operating temperature, operational upsets, autorefrigeration, atmospheric temperature, and any other sources of cooling.
Microwave assisted firing: this technique combines microwave energy with more conventional energy sources, such as radiant gas or electric heating, to process ceramic materials to the required high temperatures.
However, as there are only 26 connections for the 62 gases and mixtures recognized by the CGA, connections are not unique.
Catalytic reactor Although catalytic reactors are often implemented as plug flow reactors, their analysis requires more complicated treatment.
Queensland Some pressure equipment (excluding pressure piping) is regulated in the state of Queensland as per Schedule 4 (13) of the Workplace Health and Safety Regulation 2008.
The Kiln Site in Yucheon-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 유천리 요지; Hanja: 扶安柳川里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Yucheon-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
The benefits of using a flexible storage system like fuel bladders include their ability to be transported and set up quickly.
In this manner, both the supply and drain flow can be regulated to prevent the separator from becoming overloaded.
Filters for foreign particles Unfiltered fuel may contain several kinds of contamination, for example paint chips and dirt that has entered the fuel tank while filling, or rust caused by moisture in a steel tank.
Greatest output is achieved when the evaporator operates at near atmospheric pressure and a high temperature (for saturated steam this will be at a limit of 100 °C), which may then have an efficiency of 0.87 kg of feedwater produced for each kg of steam supplied.
Primary use Fuel bladders are used in various fields, such as agribusiness, public works, humanitarian, military and industrial areas.
These specialised kilns remained operational for the calcination of flint pebbles, heating them to approximately 1,000°C, well into the 1990s.
Design and workmanship is the final part within a four parts standard series which specifies the necessary requirements for design, fabrication, inspection and testing by manufacturers and specifiers within the area of chemical storage.
The technique allows for creating uniform holes of any desired diameter to allow even a virus to be filtered.
The condensation of water releases more than 2 gigajoules (560 kWh) per ton of condensed water, which can be recovered in the cooler for e.g.
All of the goals are yet to be satisfied but numerous institutions, including the ALL-CRAFT program, are continuing to conduct work in this field.
The shell temperature needs to be maintained below around 350 °C (662 °F) to protect the steel from damage, and continuous infrared scanners are used to give early warning of "hot-spots" indicative of refractory failure.
In addition to the operational costs, also the capital cost increases because the heat exchangers have to be designed in larger sizes to compensate for the heat-transfer loss due to fouling.
Reactors in continuous processes are typically run at steady-state, whereas reactors in batch processes are necessarily operated in a transient state.
Typical examples are liquid-phase hydrogenation, hydrodesulfurization, and hydrodenitrogenation in refineries (three phase hydrotreater) and oxidation of harmful chemical compounds in wastewater streams or of cumene in the cumene process.
Powder Deaerators (also powder compactor or powder densifier) are working apparatuses for deaerating and compacting of dry, fine-grained powders.
Rolling bed dryers are most often used for drying wood chips and organic residues and are most often utilized in the biomass, waste/recycling, wood particle board, pellet, and biofuel industries.
This article may include information on pressure vessels in the broad sense, and is not restricted to any single definition.
Fiberglass vessels and constructs are also susceptible to degradation upon long-term exposure to sunlight.
The dynamic scraped surface heat exchanger (DSSHE) is a type of heat exchanger used to remove or add heat to fluids, mainly foodstuffs, but also other industrial products.
These require some ingenuity of design, since the tyre must fit the shell snugly, but also allow thermal movement.
Heterogeneous catalytic reactors are among the most commonly utilized chemical reactors in the chemical engineering industry.
Also in the treatment of waste water trickle bed reactors are used where the required biomass resides on the packed bed surface.
It was decided to lift it with the two divers according to the necessary decompression profile and nobody was harmed.
Common issues ascribed to batch reactors are their relatively high cost and unreliability in terms of product quality.
Comminution of solid materials requires various types of crushers and mills depending on the feed properties such as hardness at various size ranges and application requirements such as throughput and maintenance.
The economics of different wood drying technologies are based on the total energy, capital, insurance/risk, environmental impacts, labor, maintenance, and product degradation costs.
In June 1964, Robert Sténuit and Jon Lindberg spent 49 hours at 126m in Link's Man-in-the-Sea II project.
The aim of the application is to raise the bulk density and/or improve the handling properties of a product.
This indirect relationship is shown in Equation 7, r e c = m c W c m f W f {\displaystyle rec={\frac {m_{c}W_{c}}{m_{f}W_{f}}}} (Equation 7) where subscript c and f denote, the cake and feed respectively.
In order to prevent liquid contamination, a neutral barrier film is added to the fuel bladder's interior.
Steel cylinders may continue to be used indefinitely providing they pass periodic inspection and testing.
This increase in flow rate causes higher turbulence which results in an increase of the heat transfer coefficient.
As opposed to a fixed roof tank there is no vapor space (ullage) in the floating roof tank (except for very low liquid level situations).
On January 9, 1994, 188 of the kilns were proposed by South Korea as a tentative UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Downhole heat exchangers, like other use of geothermal energy, have the potential to significantly contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions.
System function Water on the roof is usually drained by a special flexible hose or other special drain line system that runs from drain-sumps on the roof, through the stored liquid to a drain valve on the shell at the base of the tank.
They are located in the Caribou-Targhee National Forest, which operates the location as a public interpretive site.
A hyperbaric stretcher must be portable, and should be compatible with transfer under pressure to and from full size hyperbaric chambers.
Relief valve (RV): A valve is used on a liquid service, which opens proportionally as the increasing pressure overcomes the spring pressure.
Gangjin Kiln Sites (Korean: 강진 고려청자 요지) refers to a number of Goryeo-era archaeological sites in Gangjin County, South Jeolla Province, South Korea.
In the manufacture of float glass, a lehr oven is a long kiln with an end-to-end temperature gradient, which is used for annealing newly made glass objects that are transported through the temperature gradient either on rollers or on a conveyor belt.
It is connected to a vacuum line via a hollow shaft creating a negative pressure within the filter drum.
The gases must be drawn through the kiln, and the preheater if fitted, by a fan situated at the exhaust end.
Applications The range of applications covers a number of industries, including food, chemical, petrochemical and pharmaceutical.
v = V / Δ t A {\displaystyle v={V/\Delta t \over {A}}} The air-to-cloth ratio is typically between 1.5 and 3.5 metres per minute, mainly depending on the concentration of dust loading.
An example of corrosion fouling can be formation of an iron oxide or oxyhydroxide deposit from corrosion of the carbon steel underneath.
It was later used in glass melting furnaces and steel making, to increase the efficiency of open hearth furnaces, and in high pressure boilers and chemical and other applications, where it continues to be important today.
Due to the AFB being a recent advancement in fluidization technology, little systematic study has been done on this, and characterising global and local flow patterns may prove difficult for chemical engineers as the “bed hydrodynamics are not the same in small and large scale fluidized beds”.
Winding angle of composite vessels Wound infinite cylindrical shapes optimally take a winding angle of 54.7 degrees to the cylindrical axis, as this gives the necessary twice the strength in the circumferential direction to the longitudinal.
Though the community had only been settled in 1870, by the end of the decade it had a post office, school, newspaper, and almost 1000 residents.
Electrostatic particle collector To collect the very fine particles a new technology is used in the field of "nano" spray drying.
The most advanced systems apply the vacuum slowly and run the rotor at speeds of 500 x gravity - this system is proven to prevent bumping and was patented by Genevac in the late 1990s.
The catalyst may have multiple configuration including: one large bed, several horizontal beds, several parallel packed tubes, multiple beds in their own shells.
To prevent such material weaknesses, objects made from molten glass are annealed by gradual cooling in a lehr oven, from the annealing point, a temperature just below the solidification temperature of the glass.
Industrial dryers are used to efficiently process large quantities of bulk materials that need reduced moisture levels.
These include additional stages, push hesitation, horizontal split process housing, integrated hydraulics, seals, pre-drained funnels and an integrated thickening function.
Scrubber waste products One side effect of scrubbing is that the process only moves the unwanted substance from the exhaust gases into a liquid solution, solid paste or powder form.
Both Ancient Roman pottery and medieval Chinese pottery could be fired in industrial quantities, with tens of thousands of pieces in a single firing.
The allowable pressure level of a rotary regenerator is relatively low, compared to heat exchangers.
Multiple drums can reduce the amount of space that the equipment requires to achieve the same throughput.
Depending on the amount and the makeup of material needing to be dried, industrial dryers come in many different models constructed specifically for the type and quantity of material to be processed.
In order to optimise this, parameters in the design that have great influence on the thermal economy have to be considered.
Holmes's law, which modifies Bond's law by substituting the square root with an exponent that depends on the material.
Steel cylinders are more susceptible than aluminium to external corrosion, particularly in seawater, and may be galvanized or coated with corrosion barrier paints to resist corrosion damage.
The DSSHEs are appropriate whenever products are prone to fouling, very viscous, particulate, heat sensitive or crystallizing.
The Sudong-ri kilns date to around the 13th and 14th centuries, but are also in poor condition due to previous use for agriculture.
Packaged industrial gases are frequently called "cylinder gas", though "bottled gas" is sometimes used.
Conformity Assessment Australia National Pressure equipment is to be in accordance with AS/NZS 1200 per the Australian Government legislation as stipulated in Regulations 4.05(2)(d) and 4.51 (4)(b) of the Occupational Health and Safety (Safety Standards) Regulations 1994.
It has applications in military, commercial, scientific, and recreational diving, and in hyperbaric medicine.
According to requirements recuperative multi-tube coolers are built with diameters between 1.0 and 4.0 m and lengths from 10 to 40 m.
If the hot gas stream is made up of a mixture of air and combustion gases from a burner, the dryer is known as "directly heated".
The threading is external, so the connections of the cylinder and the attached equipment must be fixed together using a nipple, which is signified by NGO.
Their association with Stoke-on-Trent reflects the fact that the British ceramic industry was mainly based in that city.
There are some factors which should be taken into consideration when proceeding with the scaling-up.
Heating and cooling systems Products within batch reactors usually liberate or absorb heat during processing.
These expanded limits are possible due to new technological developments to the spray head, the heating system, and the electrostatic particle collector.
It is for this reason that TBRs have been extensively studied over the past five decades and currently the amount of open literature publications on TBRs is increasing, hinting that the understanding of the hydrodynamics is still limited.
Slurry reactors can use very fine particles and this can lead to problems of separation of catalyst from the liquid.
The vessel is sealed with an O-ring sealing system utilizing FDA approved materials such as perfluoroelastomer.
Not only because they automate the process of filtering but also the construction and adaptation of the filter.
The number of blades oscillates between 1 and 4 and may take advantage of centrifugal forces to scrape the inner surface of the tube.
Thus, it is not only the information explosion that necessitates some form of filters, but also inadvertently or maliciously introduced pseudo-information.
Gas bundles are specified by ISO 10961:2019 Gas cylinders — Cylinder bundles — Design, manufacture, testing and inspection.
Pickels considered his design to be too complicated for commercial use and developed a more easily operated, “foolproof” version.
Depending on the amount of ventilation., it is possible to separate fine materials such as dust, fibers, and sand from the bulk material collecting this separately alongside the ongoing drying process.
Six divers lived in the habitat at 102.4 metres (336 ft) in the Mediterranean Sea near the Cap Ferrat lighthouse, between Nice and Monaco, for three weeks.
Although the water in the pressurizer is the same reactor coolant as in the rest of the reactor coolant system, and therefore stagnant, i.e.
Variations of these kilns, usually referred to as "tunnel kilns," are used by modern potters in Catawba Valley and other pottery regions in the American southeast.
The underlying physical picture for this model is that of a two-layer deposit consisting of consolidated inner layer and loose unconsolidated outer layer.
(from Figure 3) Thus Years “Expected”= 70/140 x 8 = 4 Years (until 50% of original break elongation properties left.
Products can be maximised by varying the fluidization velocity in the annulus, more solids can be ejected from the bubbles and the convective mass flux able to penetrate into the jet increases.
The annealing renders glass into a stronger material with fewer internal stresses, and with a lower probability of breaking.
In Europe this has been in force since May 2002 and all organizations in the European Union are obliged to comply with it.
Catawba Valley potters chose alkaline glazes over salt glaze, the predominant stoneware glaze used in America at the time.
The mass of a typical 6 m × 60 m (20 ft × 197 ft) kiln, including refractories and feed, is around 1,100 t (2,400,000 lb), and would be carried on three tyres and sets of rollers, spaced along the length of the kiln.
Hot potassium carbonate, HPC, is a method used to remove carbon dioxide from gas mixtures, in some contexts referred to as carbon scrubbing.
The X-1 plant was designed so that it could be operated when snorkelling, or even when completely submerged.
Because of the availability of tube furnaces, chemical vapor transport has become a popular technique not only in industry (see van Arkel–de Boer process) but also in the research laboratory.
The liquid being evaporated is fed from the bottom into long tubes and heated with steam condensing on the outside of the tube from the shell side.
Potters who chose to continue the craft had to rely on tourism and an interest in handmade crafts fostered by the American Arts and Crafts movement.
The Birch Creek Charcoal Kilns are a group of beehive-shaped clay charcoal kilns near Leadore, Idaho, built in 1886.
An old wood tar oil recipe for the treatment of wood is one-third each genuine wood tar, balsam turpentine, and boiled or raw linseed oil or Chinese tung oil.
Some gaseous pollutants and particles are initially removed as they pass over the liquid sprays.The liquid droplets then impact on the blades to create smaller droplets for additional collection targets.
The Tybo Charcoal Kilns are a pair of charcoal kilns located 4 miles (6.4 km) north of Tybo, Nevada.
In the process of annealing glass, the temperature is first equalised by holding or "soaking" the glass at the annealing point for a period of time that depends on the maximum thickness of the glass.
As a 'parent' document this Standard specifies specific requirements to pressure equipment by making reference to a range of Australian, New Zealand and other Standards.
Once liquid completely fills this volume the pump may either stall and overload, or the pump chamber may be warped or otherwise damaged by the fluid that can not fit into a smaller space.
Benefits Deaerators achieve savings in package, transport and storage capacity by significantly reducing the powder volume.
The so-called arbitrary MDMT must be lower than or equal to the CET (which is an environmental or "process" property, see below) and must be higher than or equal to the (MDMT)M (which is a material property).
Oil sands, found extensively in Alberta, Canada, and composed of asphalt, are colloquially referred to as "tar sands".
A nuclepore filter (brand name Nuclepore from Whatman, part of GE Healthcare) is a kind of filter in which holes a few micrometres in size have been created in a plastic (e.g.
Tar is a dark brown or black viscous liquid of hydrocarbons and free carbon, obtained from a wide variety of organic materials through destructive distillation.
Waste Production The majority of liquid contained within the mixture is drawn out at an early stage, in the feed zone of the slot screen.
Vacuum pressure safety valve (VPSV): An automatic system that relieves by the static pressure of a gas.
Standard elements will handle temperatures up to 158 °F with improved elements designed for up to 230 °F The separation efficiency exceeds that required by the BIA-certificate regarding dust classification M.
This increases the hoop strength, making the tanks anisotropically stronger than steel (pound per pound).
Wood tar is also available diluted as tar water, which has numerous uses: As a flavoring for candies (e.g., Terva Leijona) and alcohol (Terva Viina).
Instrumentation Ultracentrifuges are available with a wide variety of rotors suitable for a great range of experiments.
Then the feed is controlled by filling valve and the basket is observed by filling level controller.
Cylinders reinforced with or made from a fibre reinforced material usually must be inspected more frequently than metal cylinders, e.g., every 5 instead of 10 years, and must be inspected more thoroughly than metal cylinders as they are more susceptible to impact damage.
Due to the indirect method of operation, the coolers provide hot and clean air that can be reused as energy.
It is considered to be the simplest reactor type for performing catalytic reactions where a gas and liquid (normally both reagents) are present in the reactor and accordingly it is extensively used in processing plants.
Fixed angle rotors are made of a single block of material and hold the tubes in cavities bored at a predetermined angle.
An additional PTFE-coating gets into the pores of the PE-basic body and forms a micro-porous, non-sticking surface resulting in surface-loaded filtration.
In this mode, termed a condensing scrubber, water from the scrubber drain is circulated through a cooler to the nozzles at the top of the scrubber.
Circotherm- one of the latest development of Outotec, the core system of AFB is utilised for heat recovery and solids recovery via cyclone.
Reactors with insignificant motion of catalyst particles Fixed bed reactors A fixed bed reactor is a cylindrical tube filled with catalyst pellets with reactants flowing through the bed and being converted into products.
The biomass processed through the rolling bed dryer can be not only efficiently dried but also has the option of being cleaned simultaneously.
Therefore, ebullated bed reactors have the characteristics of stirred reactor type operation with a fluidized catalyst.
Safety and standards Because the contents are under pressure and are sometimes hazardous materials, handling bottled gases is regulated.
Ebullated bed reactors are a type of fluidized bed reactor that utilizes ebullition, or bubbling, to achieve appropriate distribution of reactants and catalysts.
To achieve this, the coolant in the reactor coolant system is maintained at a pressure sufficiently high that boiling does not occur at the coolant temperatures experienced while the plant is operating or in any analyzed possible transient state.
Pipes are heated and then polyethylene powder coated, either electrostatically or through immersion.
The Charcoal Kilns near Eureka, Utah were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.
History The BPVC was created in response to public outcry after several serious explosions in the state of Massachusetts.
After precipitating the chemical element of interest, successfully transferring all of the precipitate to the filtration funnel for separation from the supernatant liquid is required.
Origin of chemical reaction engineering Chemical reaction engineering as a discipline started in the early 1950s under the impulse of researchers at the Shell Amsterdam research center and the University of Delft.
In this paper, he discovered that cooling the carbon to liquid nitrogen temperatures allowed it to adsorb significant quantities of numerous air gases, among others, that could then be recollected by simply allowing the carbon to warm again and that coconut-based carbon was superior for the effect.
Most internal combustion engines use a fuel filter, in order to protect the components in the fuel system.
Fence for livestock or poultry (chicken wire or hardware cloth) Humane animal trapping uses woven or welded wire mesh cages (chicken wire or hardware cloth) to trap wild animals like raccoons and skunks in populated areas.
Knitted mesh is frequently used for modern sports jerseys and other clothing like hosiery and lingerie A meshed skin graft is a piece of harvested skin that has been systematically fenestrated to create a mesh-like patch.
This assembly is applied with centrifugal force that is generated mechanically for smaller units and hydraulically for larger units to enable separation.
History In 1924 Theodor Svedberg built a centrifuge capable of generating 7,000 g (at 12,000 rpm), and called it the ultracentrifuge, to juxtapose it with the Ultramicroscope that had been developed previously.
Furthermore, methods of trituration include levigation, which is the trituration of a powder with a non-solvent liquid, and pulverization by intervention, which is trituration with a solvent that can be easily removed after the substance has been broken down.
Similarly tantalum disulfide is prepared in a tube furnace followed by purification, also in a tube furnace using the technique of chemical vapor transport.
To accomplish this the hot fluid is brought into contact with the heat storage medium, then the fluid is displaced with the cold fluid, which absorbs the heat.
For this reason, the evaporator is adjusted as seawater temperature changes and shuts down altogether when the ship is maneuvering.
See also Kiln Site in Jinseo-ri, Buan References External links Media related to Kiln Site in Yucheon-ri, Buan at Wikimedia Commons
These characteristics may originate from the information item (the content-based approach) or the user's social environment (the collaborative filtering approach).
Filters for foreign liquids Some diesel engines use a bowl-like design to collect water in the bottom of the filter (as diesel floats on top of water).
However, vessels resembling those used today did not come about until the 1800s, when steam was generated in boilers' helping to spur the Industrial Revolution.
It consists of an open- topped cylindrical steel shell equipped with a roof that floats on the surface of the stored liquid.
All parallel thread valves are sealed using an elastomer O-ring at top of the neck thread which seals in a chamfer or step in the cylinder neck and against the flange of the valve.
The downstream gas is saturated with water, so even though significant amounts of water may have been removed from the cooled gas, it is likely to leave a visible stack plume of water vapor.
Dust collector#Fabric Collectors The rigidity of the matrix results in no wear from abrasive material.
Mechanism The system works by lowering the pressure in the centrifuge system - as the pressure drops so does the boiling point of the solvent(s) in the system.
BS EN 13121-3 is European Standard adopted by UK, titled "GRP tanks and vessels for use above ground.
2 Mine, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Lime Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Soldier Creek Kilns, Stockton, Utah, NRHP-listed Frisco Charcoal Kilns, Milford, Utah, NRHP-listed == References ==
Process design heuristics The heuristics of pusher centrifuge design consider equipment size, operation sequence and recycle structure.
High performance systems can remove very high boiling solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) while keeping sample temperatures below 40 °C at all times.
While there are numerous effective methods today, early desalination efforts had low yields and often could not produce potable water.
These filters are generally created by exposing the membrane to radiation that weakens the plastic and creates specific areas that can be removed by dousing the membrane in acid (or other chemicals).
In addition to the movement plate, G can cause breakage and compaction, and volatile matter in the cake increases.
The vessel base is secured to the main vessel body via manually operated c-clamps or an automated bayonet locking system.
The pressure may be from external sources, or by the application of heating from an indirect or direct source as a result of a process, or any combination of the two.
Interaction between these effects increases rotor instability and decreases the efficiency of turbomachinery.
(2009), an annular fluidized bed consists of "a large central nozzle surrounded by a stationary fluidized bed".
The technology is a form of chemical absorption, and was developed for natural gas sweetening (i.e., removal of acidic from raw natural gas).
To acquire its fuel, it imported wood from nearby hills, which it then converted to charcoal in the kilns.
Quick Calculator for Horizontal Knock Out Drum sizing Archived 2018-11-05 at the Wayback Machine Based on minimum time required for liquid droplets of a given minimum size to be separated.
The addition of vibratory mechanism to the fluidized bed in 1984 where Geldart showed that using mechanical vibrating sieve can improve the performance of fluidising small size of fine particles.
See also Rotary dryer Fluidized bed Allgaier (company) References External links Video of rolling bed dryer in action
Operation The catalyst used for the ebullated bed is typically a 0.8-mm-diameter extrudate, and is held in a fluidized state through the upward lift of liquid reactants and gas.
Combustion Combustion is sometimes the cause of harmful exhausts, but, in many cases, combustion may also be used for exhaust gas cleaning if the temperature is high enough and enough oxygen is available.
Tip-leakage flow losses The main points to consider are: The rotation of a rotor in turbomachinery induces a pressure differences between opposite sides of the blade profile, resulting in tip leakage.
By the 1940s, Crompton Greaves of India became the world's largest manufacturer of electric ceiling fans mainly for sale in India, Asia, and the Middle East.
MDMT is one of the design conditions for pressure vessels engineering calculations, design and manufacturing according to the ASME Boilers and Pressure Vessels Code.
Spray drying is a gentle method for producing powders with a defined particle size out of solutions, dispersions, and emulsions which is widely used for pharmaceuticals, food, biotechnology, and other industrial materials synthesis.
Modern Potters from the Region An early recorded pottery in the Catawba Valley was operated by Daniel Seagle (ca.1805-1867) of Lincoln County.
To decrease pressure in the reactor coolant system, sprays of relatively cool water are turned on inside the pressurizer, lowering the coolant temperature in the pressurizer and thereby lowering the pressure.
The inorganic, basic compound potassium carbonate is mixed with a gas mixture and the liquid absorbs carbon dioxide through chemical processes.
Because the filters have a flat surface, the cells are trapped on top of the filter and remain visible, unlike other types of filters where the cells may be trapped inside the filter.
Overall, the trickle bed is simpler, the slurry reactors usually has a high reaction rate and the fluidized bed is somewhat in-between.
The space around the u-tubes is filled with groundwater or backfilled with thermally conductive grout.
Bottle kilns were typical of the industrial landscape of Stoke-on-Trent, where nearly 50 are preserved as listed buildings.
The outside of the neck of the insert is not covered by the fibre wrapping, and may have axial ridges to engage with a wrench or clamp for torsional support when fitting or removing the cylinder valve.
Fans have become solar-powered, energy-efficient, and battery-powered in places with unreliable energy sources.
Later applications included the blast furnace process known as hot blast and the open hearth furnace also called the Siemens regenerative furnace (which was used for making glass), where the hot exhaust gases from combustion are passed through firebrick regenerative chambers, which are thus heated.
In Middle English, the word is attested as kulne, kyllne, kilne, kiln, kylle, kyll, kil, kill, keele, kiele.
One possible design consists of a cylindrical cavity surrounded by heating coils that are embedded in a thermally insulating matrix.
And its high discharge speed reduces time taken to accelerate and braking for rotation for high capacity, so does power consumption, wear and tear.
The direction of gas flow combined with the inclination of the drum determine how quickly material moves through the dryer.
The experiments in BIOPAN are exposed to solar and cosmic radiation, the space vacuum and weightlessness, or a selection thereof.
Cinnamon basil has somewhat narrow, slightly serrated, dark green, shiny leaves with reddish-purple veins, which can resemble certain types of mint, and produces small, pink flowers from July to September.
At least a couple novel varieties of mizuna have significant anthocyanin content, causing them to instead have pinkish to dark purple stems and/or leaves.
On 28 January 2013, Iranian news agencies reported that Iran sent a monkey in a "Pishgam" rocket to a height of 116 km (72 mi) and retrieved a "shipment".
However, recent research has found that cultural attitudes and widespread disgust toward eating insects, particularly in Western countries, make it unlikely that insects will significantly replace meat in human diets.
Mac's big chance to explore the furthest frontier and hurtle America ahead in the race to space might easily cost him his life.
After 2018, Cambodia became the largest exporter of crab-eating macaques, contributing 59% of all macaques traded in 2019 and 2020.
From 1957 to 1960, 11 flights with dogs were made on the R-2A series (developed from the R-1 missile) which flew to about 200 km (120 mi).
The list of tardigrades of South Africa is a list of species that form a part of the phylum Tardigrada of the fauna of South Africa.
One Small Step: The Story of the Space Chimps is a 2003 documentary film produced and directed by David Cassidy and Kristin Davy which aired on History Channel UK and CBC Television.
In 1994, Gibson's last year with the group and the 25th anniversary of the Apollo 11, Max Q was the warm-up band for Cheap Trick on their tour through Houston.
Re-stocking from Earth, a lunar orbiting Space station or Mars habitation with food will be significantly more costly.
Also, by evaluating retrieved samples of exposed terrestrial microbes and astronomical organic analogs on the exposure panels, they can investigate their survival and any alterations in the duration of interplanetary transport.
The UV-induced inactivation is mainly caused by photodamaging of the DNA, as documented by the identification of the spore photoproduct 5,6-dihydro-5(α-thyminyl)thymine.
The film premiered in an online version at the international multimedia press center of MIA "Rossiya Segodnya." The film later had a wide release in Russia on 24 September 2020.
Over 20 different coat colors occur in the Mongolian gerbil, which has been captive-bred the longest.
tardigradum is difficult to analyze due to the difficulty in taxonomy and the lack of sufficient data.
It included the line, "Does a monkey know he's sitting on top of a rocket that might explode?" which made him wonder what happened if the monkey knew.
Also on the program was Disneyland, U.S.A., a live stage show co-produced by the Disney team that featured elements and characters from the famed theme park in Anaheim, California.
Once at home, Buddha gives Sam a Moon rock he had taken from his journey, fulfilling his wish of touching the Moon.
Finally, on 18 October 1963, the cat Félicette made a suborbital flight as part of the French space program, returned alive, and was sacrificed after two months for an autopsy and study of her brain.
alpigenum was first suggested to be an independent species by Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg in 1853.
Accolades Adaptations From street dogs, the famous dogs Belka and Strelka have captured the public imagination ever since their space exploration in 1960.
Positions International Space Station positions See also NASA Astronaut Groups – the phases of astronaut selection Notes References External links Shuttle Commander and Pilot definitions Shuttle PLC, MS, and PS definitions
These burrows can be as deep as 2 meters (6 ft 7 in), where it retreats during the midday heat and at night, only emerging to forage at dawn or dusk when temperatures drop.
The Amazing World of Gumball alumni James Hamilton served as co-developer and head writer of the series.
In the past short-term rodent experiments transported to space on various vehicle including the Space Shuttle.
They are popular because of their ease of propagation, low water requirements, and wide variety of flower colors typically borne in clusters well above the leaves.
Technical details Operated by a 160 kN thrust engine using a combination of nitric acid and turpentine as propellants, the Vesta rocket was 10.2 meters tall with a diameter of 1 meter.
The Vesta sounding rocket, conceived in 1962 by the Laboratoire de Recherches Balistiques et Aérodynamiques (LRBA), a specialized French Army research facility focused on liquid-propelled rocket development.
diadematus has a holarctic distribution throughout Europe and across North America, from southern Canada to Mexico, and from British Columbia to Newfoundland.
Water is important for all species; the tortoise, being an arid species, will typically get water from their food, but they still need a constant supply.
He was part of the first six Soviet citizens, with German Titov, Yevgeny Khrunov, Andriyan Nikolayev, Pavel Popovich, and Grigoriy Nelyubov, who were given the title of pilot-cosmonaut in January 1961.
This spaceflight of record-breaking duration was not surpassed by humans until Soyuz 11 in 1971 and still stands as the longest space flight by dogs.
Martine became the first monkey to survive more than a couple of hours after flying above the international definition of the edge of space.
Taxonomic ambiguity The type specimen Rahm used as the basis of his description has either been lost or it was never preserved in the first place, which Grothman et al.
Some of these were planted alongside their Earth-bound counterparts, which were specifically set aside as controls.
During the mating season, though, the adult males become fatter, excited, aggressive, and highly vocal and spend most of their time engaging in dominance interactions among themselves or following and approaching the adult females in estrus, in hopes of being able to mate with them.
Dawson Griffen as Puppy Ed David Lopez as Chonies, a chihuahua who is the Pluto's med/tech officer and a yes-man.
Varieties In addition to the term mizuna (and its alternates) being applied to at least two different species of Brassica, horticulturalists have defined and named a number of varieties.
These benefits make mealworms attractive for mass rearing, a technique that promotes disease transmission within the colonies.
A population Viability Analysis (PVA) for crab-eating macaques revealed that the presence and absence of females in a population are key to its short and long term viability.
The mission sparked a debate across the globe on the mistreatment of animals and animal testing in general to advance science.
It has been described as possessing swollen, orange-yellow thalli (in streams), compact orange thalli (on boulders) or dark orange-red thalli on the driest rock faces.
It is possible to classify these microorganisms into two groups, the human-borne and the extremophiles.
This species was described in 1937 by German zoologist Gilbert Rahm from a hot spring near Nagasaki, Japan.
Edible turnips were possibly first cultivated in northern Europe, and were an important food in ancient Rome.
On 18 October 1963 at 8:09 am, C 341 was launched into space from the Centre interarmées d'essais d'engins spéciaux site in Algeria.
At the height of the Cold War, there was a real concern that the Soviets might actually beat NASA to the Moon.
Male tilapia are preferred in aquaculture as they grow faster and have a more uniform adult size than females.
Ono and colleagues suggested that tardigrades might be able to survive a journey through space on a meteorite, enabling panspermia, the transfer of life from one planet to another.
This poikilohydric strategy enables it to withstand prolonged dry periods, although growth and reproduction are largely confined to humid conditions.
Two electrodes were glued to a foreleg so electrical impulses could be used to stimulate them during the flight.
What was considered unnatural for the newborn cockroaches was that their carapace had darkened in colour much earlier, in comparison with natural-condition cockroaches who develop that darker tone later in their life cycle.
Some advantages of the species included their small size, ease of maintenance in an isolated state (requiring no drinking water for the expected duration of the mission and producing highly concentrated waste), and their proven capability of withstanding environmental stress.
Back on Earth, more than 68% of the subjects protected from ultraviolet were reanimated by rehydration, and many produced viable embryos.
Complicating matters further, the type locality from which Rahm collected his specimen may have been destroyed by an earthquake and subsequent searches for additional specimens matching the original description have been unsuccessful.
The only explanation found in earlier experiments for this ability was that their lowered water state provides fewer reactants for ionizing radiation.
The screenplay took a satirical view of the United States government, with someone chiding a politician with "Didn't you read our 'Simple Science for Senators?'" The same character types Disney deified in their earlier Man in Space series were now gently made fun of in the film.
The third is collecting lunar samples from the near-side and sending them to Earth, a task Chang'e 5 completed in 2020, and Chang'e 6 that completed in 2024.
The experiment included samples of Chroococcidiopsis that were exposed to simulated Martian atmosphere, UVC radiation and temperature extremes.
Biosatellite 2 carried thirteen biological experiments involving insects, frog eggs, plants and microorganisms.
Fe, Fi, Fo, Fum, and Phooey had been implanted with radiation monitors under their scalps to see whether they would suffer damage from cosmic rays.
Jönsson in 2007, and then other researchers such as Daiki Horikawa in 2008 and Roberto Guidetti in 2012, to present evidence that they would resist desiccation, radiation, heat, and cold, suiting them for astrobiological studies.
The foundation sponsors and hosts ceremonies to plant new trees, with seeds produced by the original generation of trees that grew from the seeds carried by Roosa in 1971.
After reaching orbit, Sputnik 2's nose cone was jettisoned successfully; however, the "Block A" core did not separate as planned, preventing the thermal control system from operating correctly.
It is sometimes called the pumpkin spider, although this name is also used for a different species, Araneus marmoreus.
In 2011, an article in Wired magazine described the effort, and provided Williams' email address, encouraging anyone to write who might have data on existing Moon trees.
The lichen is often found near highways and on trees growing along drainage ditches that receive runoff from fertilized fields, further supporting the role of anthropogenic nutrient enrichment in its inland establishment.
This adaptability enables its survival in this region, where it is exposed to fluctuating moisture levels due to drying cycles of meltwater-soaked thalli.
Release One Small Step: The Story of the Space Chimps is a documentary that screened in over 20 film festivals including the Maryland Film Festival, the Vancouver International Film Festival, and the Hot Springs Documentary Film Festival, before airing on television and being released on DVD.
When there was a third challenge implantation in the same males, there was a lower encapsulation rate of the nylon implants in more attractive males than the less attractive, showing that the males made no attempts to boost their immune system.
parietina thalli border upon other lichens such as Physcia species, neither distinctly overgrows the other, but rather their marginal lobes intermingle.
Other background lines less-often cited in the scientific literature are Ws, or Wassilewskija, C24, Cvi, or Cape Verde Islands, Nossen, etc.
Mike, along with his friends Marty and Amy and Marty's pet iguana Igor, tries to sneak inside the launch area, but Marty gets caught after being attacked by alligators in the marshes surrounding Kennedy Space Center Launch Complex 39.
The pin is issued in two grades, silver and gold, with the silver pin awarded to candidates who have successfully completed astronaut training and the gold pin to astronauts who have flown in space.
They are used to research the effects of space (cosmic radiation, weightlessness, etc.) on biological matter while in orbit around a celestial body.
Gibson has stated that he came up with the name "Max Q" (though recognizes that Shaw has also claimed having come up with the name himself) as a reference to the engineering term for the maximum dynamic pressure from the atmosphere experienced by an ascending spacecraft.
The first two launches primarily served as validation tests for the rocket's operation, whereas the subsequent three carried out scientific experiments.
The Russian Academy of Sciences stated that a mannequin equipped with radiation sensors occupied the pilot's seat.
rapa was one of the earliest domesticated brassicas, with turnip-like forms arising first and additional morphotypes developing independently across Eurasia.
Texan billionaire Richard Carson III wants to claim ownership of the Moon in order to mine its vast resources of Helium-3.
The project is developed through collaboration between the University of Leicester and the University of Exeter.
The results also demonstrate the protective effect of meteorite powder, which reemphasizes the importance of exogenic contribution to the inventory of prebiotic organics on early Earth.
The film also recounts the stories of many early primate missions including those of Able and Baker, and Gordo.
'Belka and Strelka: Caribbean Mystery') also known as Space Dogs: Tropical Adventure is a 2020 Russian 3D animated comedy fantasy family film written by Danil Trotensko, Artem Milovanov, Mike Disa, Olga Nikiforova, Viktor Strelchencko and directed by Inna Evlannikova.
This form of dominance interaction, as well as several types of aggression, increase during the mating season when males want to emphasize their rank and strength and gain more control over other males in relation to access to females.
For his leading man, Disney chose Tom Tryon, who had been starring in Texas John Slaughter on television, but for the space female Disney chose Dany Saval, then touted as the "new Brigitte Bardot" for her American debut.
There now exist colonies of mice derived from the original C57BL/6 colony that have been bred in isolation from one another for many hundreds of generations.
Kalanchoe ceratophylla and Kalanchoe laciniata are both called 伽蓝菜 (apparently "Buddhist monastery [samghārāma] herb") in China.
annulatus is for the male to place the sperm under the female's cuticle; when she moults, she lays eggs into the cast cuticle, where they are fertilised.
The possibility of overheating during atmospheric re-entry was acknowledged early during the development, therefore, a quite massive heat shield was designed for it.
He studied fifteen different types of fruit flies, including the fruit fly most widely known, the Drosophila melanogaster.
The Tactopoda hypothesis holds that Tardigrada are sister to Arthropoda; the Antennopoda hypothesis is that Tardigrada are sister to (Onychophora + Arthropoda); and the Lobopodia (sensu Smith & Goldstein 2017) hypothesis is that Tardigrada are sister to Onychophora.
The chamber, with the return speed estimated at 1,800 m/s, would initially be rescued by two 4.5 m 2 {\displaystyle 4.5m^{2}} air braking devices, and would be followed by a 68 kg parachute developed by the Army Air Ground Division Core, open at an altitude of 5,000 meters, all in an automatic way.
The financial implications of such damage is estimated at approximately USD$200,000 in agriculture and USD$150,000 in horticulture.
One of the most well known examples of experiments on crab-eating macaques is the 1981 Silver Spring monkeys case.
Hormones and pheromones released with urine by the fish often affect the behavior and physiology of the opposite sex.
Taxonomy and evolution The first known mention of gerbils came in 1866, by Father Armand David, who sent "yellow rats" to the French National Museum of Natural History in Paris, from northern China.
The bacteria were launched as dried spores and revived at different times during the mission with a nutrient-filled fluid a few days, three months and six months after launch.
But mealworm farming presents many challenges, including machinery clogging caused by the extremely fatty Tenebrio molitor larvae, as noted in the industrial-scale operations of Ynsect.
Tardigrades possess a cold shock protein; Maria Kamilari and colleagues propose (2019) that this may serve "as a RNA-chaperone involved in regulation of translation [of RNA code to proteins] following freezing." Tardigrade DNA is protected from radiation by the Dsup ("damage suppressor") protein.
Four monkeys flew aboard the last Bion flights of the Soviet Union as well as frogs and fruit flies.
During the Voskhod program, two Soviet space dogs, Veterok (Ветерок, Little Wind) and Ugolyok (Уголёк, Blackie), were launched on 22 February 1966, on board Cosmos 110 and spent 22 days in orbit before landing on 16 March.
Reception Box office AIP made the film hoping that military comedies would provide them with a genre as popular as the beach party movies but it proved a commercial disappointment, Samuel Z Arkoff claiming it "bombed out".
The largest, Kalanchoe beharensis from Madagascar, can reach 6 m (20 ft) tall, but most species are less than 1 m (3 ft) tall.
The mission was a prototype for the "Living Interplanetary Flight Experiment" (LIFE) which was to have travelled to the Martian moon Phobos on the Russian Fobos-Grunt spacecraft.
The dogs, while on the Moon, meet a ferret named Gravity who is their mission control assistant, but since their only communication is from audio, they don't know she is a ferret.
They concluded that microgravity and cosmic radiation "did not significantly affect survival of tardigrades in flight" and that tardigrades were useful in space research, with implications for astrobiology, where they should be suitable model organisms.
Nadezhda (Russian: Надежда, Hope) was a cockroach that was sent into space during the Foton-M 3 bio-satellite flight between September 14 and 26, 2007 by Russian scientists.
Originally they planned for the rocket to reach the 300 km mark, but this was abandoned due to difficulties in the calculations.
Eventually, after his rocket is launched, Lyrae appears by his side and convinces him to visit her planet with her.
Before the film came out, plans for a sequel (never actually produced) were announced – Sergeant Deadhead Goes to Mars, meant to start 13 April 1966.
"He gave us details of what it was like to step on the Moon, how to get there in the last phases ...
To test their hardiness on a hypothetical mission to Mars, spores of Bacillus subtilis 168 and Bacillus pumilus SAFR-032 were exposed for 1.5 years to selected parameters of space.
Earlier experiments attributed this to their lowered water content, providing fewer reactants for ionizing radiation.
The film received generally negative reviews from critics and was a box office disappointment, only grossing $41.7 million against a $25 million budget.
It was launched on December 14, 1966, by a Delta G rocket from Launch Complex 17A of the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.
This suggests that nucleotide excision repair of accumulated DNA damages contributed to the recovery.
When spores were exposed to the vacuum of space, but shielded from solar radiation, their survivability was substantially increased if they were exposed in multilayers and/or in the presence of glucose.
Mission status In the fall of 2011, nearly 100,000 beacon packets have been submitted by amateurs in 20 countries.
It is a holiday resort with floral plants on display, especially aquatic species, and other recreational facilities.
The lichen is used as a model system to study the potential to resist extreme environments of outer space.
Therefore, culture growth and metabolic activity of yeast cells directly indicate successful repair of DNA damage.
Others tested how organic molecules react when subjected for a prolonged period of time to unfiltered solar light.
In 2007, dehydrated tardigrades were taken on the FOTON-M3 mission and exposed to vacuum, or to both vacuum and solar ultraviolet, for 10 days.
More specialised habitats include hot springs and as parasites or commensals of marine invertebrates.
The system was launched on 11 November 2026 on a cargo flight Cygnus NG-24 to the International Space Station (ISS) on April 2026.
and Scooter, build a "fly-sized" rocket in a field across from Cape Canaveral, Florida, where Apollo 11 sits on the Kennedy Space Center Launch Complex 39.
Mizuna (ミズナ(水菜), "water greens"), kyouna (京菜), Japanese mustard greens, or spider mustard is a cultivar of Brassica rapa var.
Roots are simple in structure, with a single primary root that grows vertically downward, later producing smaller lateral roots.
elegans has survived an 18-month exposure to solar UV radiation, cosmic rays, vacuum and varying temperatures in an experiment performed by the ESA outside of the ISS.
Commercial growers incorporate a juvenile hormone into the feeding process to keep the mealworm in the larval stage and achieve an abnormal length of 2 cm or greater.
France concluded biological payload research at the national level with these flights but later worked on biological payloads with the Soviet Union in the 1970s.
Hypsibius bakonyiensis Iharos, 1964, Hypsibius sattleri (Richters, 1902), Isohypsibius bakonyiensis (Iharos, 1964), Macrobiotus sattleri Richters, 1902 Genus Ramazzottius: Ramazzottius szeptycki (Dastych, 1980), syn.
In 2017, Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa) grown in the International Space Station was eaten by the crew, as well as saving some for study after return to Earth.
Monkeys and non-human apes from several species were used, including rhesus macaque, crab-eating macaque, squirrel monkeys, pig-tailed macaques, and chimpanzees.
Results and future plans High-quality photographs of the Earth, the first photos of their kind, were taken at a distance of 90,000 kilometres (56,000 mi).
Mars colonization Due to its resistance to harsh environmental conditions, especially low temperature, low moisture, and radiation tolerance, Chroococcidiopsis has been thought of as an organism capable of living on Mars.
The Soviet space program typically used female dogs due to their anatomical compatibility with the spacesuit.
Spores of different strains of Bacillus subtilis and the Escherichia coli plasmid pUC19 were exposed to selected conditions of space (space vacuum and/or defined wavebands and intensities of solar ultraviolet radiation).
Damage protection proteins Tardigrades' ability to remain desiccated for long periods of time was thought to depend on high levels of the sugar trehalose, common in organisms that survive desiccation.
Reproductive cycle During sexual reproduction the female lays at most 12 eggs as it sheds it skin, the eggs are then left in the cuticle.
Gallery References Bibliography External links Media related to Kalanchoe at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Kalanchoe at Wikispecies
Results Spectra from the PAH thin film in a water-vapor-containing microenvironment indicate measurable change due to solar irradiation in orbit, while three other nominally water-free microenvironments show no appreciable change.
They decide to hide in the school bus which soon arrives at the Vision Enterprises, and the dogs go to a space suit machine and put on space suits before following the students, who are being led by Dr.
Eight ships were deployed to the Indian Ocean prior to launch, as a precaution in case the spacecraft could not reach Soviet territory; only three of them had rescue helicopters on board.
However, due to the threat they pose to indigenous ecosystems and existing agricultural operations, it is illegal to purchase, import, or keep a gerbil as a pet in the U.S.
They lack several of the Hox genes found in arthropods, and the middle region of the body corresponding to an arthropod's thorax and abdomen.
Diseases Traditional medicine In traditional medicine, Kalanchoe species have been used to treat ailments such as infections, rheumatism and inflammation.
While technology advances, the fruit fly is continually used in preliminary research regarding space travel and organisms.
After initial training, cosmonauts are assigned as either a test cosmonaut (Russian: космонавт испытатель, romanized: kosmonavt ispytatel) or a research cosmonaut (Russian: космонавт исследователь, romanized: kosmonavt issledovatel).
It was launched 31 July 1992 by the STS-46 - Space Shuttle Atlantis and put into orbit at an altitude of 508 km.
2020s and ongoing With the technological advancements that exist today, space-like conditions can be replicated on Earth.
The term "cinnamon basil" can refer to a number of different varieties of basil, including as a synonym for Thai basil (O.
They are widely used in space biology due to its genetic simplicity and well-characterised physiology.
There are no predators on the island, and humans are not permitted to land, except as part of the research program.
Beneath the medulla, there is a basal layer, approximately 15 μm thick, of compact dark brown cells that elongate upward and merge with the medullary hyphae.
However, subsequent research found that tardigrades, when hydrated, still remain highly resistant to shortwave UV radiation in comparison to other animals, and that one factor for this is their ability to efficiently repair damage to their DNA resulting from that exposure.
As the astronauts appear on camera, the heroic flies wave in the background, visible to other flies but barely seen by humans – except for the attentive NASA flight controller Steve Bales, who informs Armstrong of the "contaminants" on board.
Space Cinnamon basil was taken into space by the Space Shuttle Endeavour during STS-118 and grown in an experiment in low Earth orbit on the International Space Station.
The Véronique rocket came from the German World War II Aggregate rocket family, developed for International Geophysical Year (French: Année géophysique internationale) in 1957 for biological research.
References Further reading da Nóbrega Alves, Rômulo Romeu; da Silva Vieira, Washington Luiz; Santana, Gindomar Gomes (July 2008).
In 2015 C57BL/6NTac females provided by Taconic Biosciences were sent to the International Space Station on SpaceX CRS-6.
We shouldn't have done it [...] We did not learn enough from this mission to justify the death of the dog.
The maneuver was performed 325,000 kilometres (202,000 mi) from Earth using the Sun and the Earth as reference points.
Tardigrades ( ), also known as water bears or moss piglets, are a phylum of eight-legged segmented micro-animals.
Since the turnip had been named first by Linnaeus, the name Brassica rapa was assigned to the plant in his work Species Plantarum.
UV and desiccation resistance Biofilms of Chroococcidiopsis were exposed to Mars-like UV-flux and desiccation for up to seven years.
A rhesus macaque called Scatback flew a sub-orbital flight on December 20, 1961, but was lost at sea after landing.
Neither the media, books in the following years, nor the public openly questioned the decision to send a dog into space.
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate a novel therapeutic drug delivery chip in microgravity.
The mission, designed and performed by Japan, used ultra-low density silica gel (aerogel) to collect cosmic dust by, which is being analyzed for amino acid-related compounds and microorganisms following their return to Earth.
ADAPT Bacterial endospores of the highly UV-resistant Bacillus subtilis strain MW01 were exposed to low Earth orbit and simulated Martian surface conditions for 559 days.
The biggest challenge for the riggers - those in charge of giving movement to the characters - was the design of Igor, the chameleon that accompanies the children on their adventure, along with the application of various mechanical gadgets in his backbox.
Despite the film's postponement due to COVID-19, the film coincidentally managed to release just one month after the 60th anniversary of the historic flight into space by the famous Soviet dogs Belka and Strelka.
See also Animals in space Monkeys and apes in space References External links One Small Step: The Story of the Space Chimps at IMDb One Small Step: The Story of the Space Chimps Official Documentary Site 28, 2003/chimps-0322.html Review of Space Chimps Documentary
Thus it is predicted that these species do breed, but are unable to produce viable offspring due to post-zygotic factors.
These experiments will test some aspects of panspermia, a hypothesis for an exogenesis origin of life distributed by meteoroids, asteroids, comets and cosmic dust.
A dominant individual threatens another individual by standing quadrupedally and making a silent "open mouth stare" accompanied by the tail sticking straight.
Aggression amongst males usually involve a typical sequence of visual, acoustic, and tactile signals that eventually escalates to physical confrontation if no resolution is reached.
They would be the first human landing on the Moon in more than 50 years, since the 1972 Apollo 17 mission.
(2017) suggest that Rahm might have observed and misinterpreted a species in the class Heterotardigrada, possibly belonging to the genus Carphania or Oreella.
Two yeast strains were selected for this mission: a wild type strain proficient in DNA repair, and a strain defective in the repair of DNA double strand breaks (DSBs), deleterious lesions generated by ionizing radiation.
Confounding circumstances unique to astronaut photography include that "being exo-atmospheric, the sun is a lot brighter" in space and thus photographers must adjust their cameras, and that the astronauts and the vistas tend to pass by each other quite quickly.
Though juveniles play and jump around an appreciable amount during phases of high activity, they usually stay close to the adult females.
The film ends with Spudnick back at home with his old owner, Sasha, who says that "it is the journey and friendship that matters the most".
Zond 7 carried four turtles, a follow-up to the September 1968 Zond 5 mission which carried two tortoises on a circumlunar lunar mission, and the November 1968 Zond 6 mission which also carried turtles.
Specialists called flight operations imagery instructors train NASA astronauts in photography technique at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, United States.
The article describing the conclusion of the contest stated that the species had "endured all five previous planetary extinction events".
After hydrogen peroxide treatment Dsup+ cells mainly activate the detoxification systems and the antioxidant enzymes that limit oxidative stress and eliminate oxidative free radicals, while DNA repair mechanisms are only marginally activated.
On 23 November 2022, John McFall was selected to be the first ESA parastronaut; he has rejected the use of the term.
It is often found on exposed to somewhat sheltered sites, often near bird or small-mammal droppings.
The purple membranes, amino acids and urea were not measurably affected by the dehydrating condition of open space, if sheltered from solar radiation.
They soon begin to get out of the Vision 1 and walk around the area within the place they had landed.
Description and use Possessing dark green, serrated leaves, mizuna is described as having, when raw, a "piquant, mild peppery flavor...slightly spicy, but less so than arugula." It is also used in stir-fries, soups, and nabemono (Japanese hot pot).
The new criteria states that one must have "[d]emonstrated activities during flight that were essential to public safety, or contributed to human space flight safety" to qualify as an astronaut.
Controversy Carlos Chagas Filho, when the experiment began to gain visibility in the media, renounced any renewed interest in sending a cat on the mission and the possibility of any scientific learning, besides citing that the acrylic capsule would face difficulties with drastic temperature changes.
The inability of taxonomists to replicate Rahm's finding has cast doubt on the accuracy of the description, making T.
Despite returning approximately a day early, its 45 hours of earth-orbital flight enabled valid conclusions to be made in the thirteen experiments on board, by comparing the onboard samples to earthbound control organisms.
At least 10 other dogs were launched into orbit and numerous others on sub-orbital flights before the historic date of 12 April 1961, when Yuri Gagarin became the first human in space.
Critical response On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 20% of 83 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 3.9/10.
It is known that the genus Buellia itself is not monophyletic (derived from a single common ancestor).
rapa can behave as a summer annual, winter annual, or biannual depending on the climate and management.
This may support the idea that clumps greater than 0.5 millimeters of microorganisms could be one way for life to spread from planet to planet.
Albert I died of suffocation during the flight and may actually have died in the cramped space capsule before launch.
Debra Wilson as Kira, a laika who was sent to space by P.R.A.T.S in order to find humanity a new home to settle in and was stranded on an unknown planet until Garbage and his crew found her and rescued her.
A test cosmonaut has a more difficult preparation than a research cosmonaut and can serve as the commander or the flight engineer of a spacecraft, while a research cosmonaut cannot.
In 2009, active members included: Ricky Arnold – rhythm guitar Dan Burbank – lead vocals and guitar Tracy "TC" Caldwell Dyson – lead vocals Ken "Taco" Cockrell – keyboards and background vocals Chris Ferguson – drums Drew Feustel – lead vocals and lead guitar Kevin A.
parietina populations show a pattern of isolation by distance—genetic differences increase with geographic separation.
After initial operation inside the ISS, the payload is exposed to external space conditions including microgravity and radiation.
Sergeant Deadhead is a 1965 American musical comedy film directed by Norman Taurog and starring Frankie Avalon.
This includes hypersaline lakes, arid regions, deep sea, acidic sites, cold and dry polar regions and permafrost.
Common names The species is known by a number of common names in places where they were introduced, including: Blue kurper in South Africa.
In the 2019 Marché du Film market, KinoAtis closed deals on Space Dogs: Tropical Adventure with distributors from Turkey, South Korea, Great Britain, as well as countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East.
Large space agencies typically follow guidelines for sterilizing mission equipment, but there is no single entity to globally enforce these rules.
Selected in 2013 for a 2022 launch, the spacecraft will operate in the deep space radiation environment throughout its 18-month mission.
1990s In 1997, researchers sent fruit flies into space for eight days and mated them with earthbound fruit flies upon their return.
Macrobiotus intermedius Plate, 1889, Macrobiotus intermedius intermedius Plate, 1889 Order Apochela Family Milnesiidae Genus Milnesium: Milnesium tardigradum Doyère, 1840, syn.
From the early 19th century, tardigrades' environmental tolerance has been a noted feature of the group.
It was inserted in an initial orbit of 296 km perigee, 309 km apogee and 33.5 degrees of orbital inclination, with a period 90.5 minutes.
The research was the second mission sponsored by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Space Life and Physical Sciences program.
The spacecraft is equipped with sensors to monitor the levels of internal pressure, temperature, humidity, radiation and acceleration while its communications system regularly transmits data back to Earth for scientific analysis.
Their relationship has become strained in the wake of the recent death of Billy's mother, and the ever-widening gap between father and son has become obvious.
When NPR1 becomes monomeric, it translocates to the nucleus, where it interacts with many TGA transcription factors, and is able to induce pathogen-related genes such as PR1.
Tardigrades can withstand 1,000 times more radiation than other animals, median lethal doses of 5,000 Gy (of gamma rays) and 6,200 Gy (of heavy ions) in hydrated animals (5 to 10 Gy could be fatal to a human).
Astronauts may be provided with an array of professional-grade cameras or use their personal phone cameras to capture images of space travel, their fellow astronauts, planets, earth satellites, the spacescape around them, and geographic landmarks of Earth.
Studying the human-borne microorganisms is significant for human welfare and future crewed missions in space, whilst the extremophiles are vital for studying the physiological requirements of survival in space.
In December 1958 the Army announced that it would test a prototype of the rocket before the official launch.
Extraterrestrial solar ultraviolet radiation was mutagenic, inducing strand breakage in the DNA and substantially reducing survival.
Huntrods, a human general of P.R.A.T.S on earth who's part of the program that sends dogs to space to find humanity a new home Stardust, a Scottish Terrier, who was the former captain of the Pluto Beetle Fran, a reporter of P.R.A.T.S News.
Two Testudo horsfieldii tortoises were the first Earth inhabitants to travel to and circle the Moon, on Zond 5 in September 1968.
The extension of its distributional limits by approximately 3,500 km2 (1,400 sq mi) in southeast India caused population stress on other species.
The development of newly hatched larvae is marked by various molting stages, rather than metamorphosis.
The rhesus macaque was also used in the well-known experiments on maternal deprivation carried out in the 1950s by controversial comparative psychologist Harry Harlow.
The soil produced by chemical weathering of rocks and oxygen produced by photosynthesis could one day provide the conditions necessary for humans to grow food on Mars, possibly allowing for permanent human civilizations on the planet.
rustamovi Chkhikvadze, Amiranschwili & Atajew, 1990 – southwestern Turkmenistan Description The Russian tortoise is a small tortoise species, with a size range of 13–25 cm (5–10 in).
Several theories suggest that one of the reasons that male squirrel monkeys do not form coalitions is because of the lack of kinship due to emigration.
rapa likely originated 4000 to 6000 years ago in the Hindu Kush area of Central Asia, and had three sets of chromosomes, providing the genetic potential for a diversity of form, flavor, and growth.
In Nepal, the lichen has been reported from 3,750 to 6,000 m elevation in a compilation of published records; this reported range extends above the tree line used in the study.
They are popular enough to appear on merchandise like clothes, earrings, soft toys, and keychains, with crochet patterns for people to make their own tardigrades.
C57BL/6, often referred to as "C57 black 6", "B6", "C57" or "black 6", is a common inbred strain of laboratory mouse.
This was followed two and a half months later by astronaut Ed White who made the first American EVA on NASA's Gemini 4 mission.
Voice cast Crew of Pluto Haley Joel Osment as Garbage, a cocky and impulsive corgi who serves as the main captain of the Pluto in Season 1 who is determined to find a new home for humanity.
The BIOPAN facilities are equipped with thermometers, UV sensors, a radiometer, a pressure sensor and an active radiation dosimeter.
The samples are housed in a rotating carousel and are imaged regularly with UV/VIS spectroscopic instrumentation while being exposed to the space environment.
Use in aquaculture Mozambique tilapia are hardy, being easy to raise and harvest, making them a good aquacultural species.
The band has played at weddings, hotels and general festivities such as Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve.
The phantom was equipped with 20 channels for radiation detectors (thermoluminescent glasses and nuclear photoemulsions) distributed along the whole body for measurement of doses in critical organs.
Of all circumlunar Soviet Zond craft launches, Zond 7 would have been the first to make a safe flight for a cosmonaut had it been crewed.
Mike, Amy, and Igor are chased by Carson and escape through Moon's rock cliffs by using rocket spare parts as surf boards and manage to destroy his entire rocket and workshop with the help of Marty's communication rocket to survive the explosion.
Pilot-Cosmonaut of the Russian Federation is a title that is presented to all cosmonauts who fly for the Russian space program.
See also Animals in space Colonization of the Moon List of space travelers by nationality List of Apollo astronauts Plants in space Tardigrades in space Notes Some species are not specified due to inadequate information.
While sometimes the microorganism may weaken, they can also increase in their disease-causing potency.
The mice and the three astronauts were the last Earthlings to orbit the Moon, and the last to leave low Earth orbit until the Artemis II lunar flyby in 2026.
The first challenge in growing plants in space is the absence of gravity, which is important for root development, soil integration, and watering.
diadematus spiders have mottled white markings across the dorsal abdomen, with four or more segments forming a cross.
Awards Home media 20th Century Home Entertainment released Space Chimps on DVD and Blu-ray on November 25, 2008.
The relay satellite is performing radio astronomy, whereas the lander and Yutu-2 rover will study the geophysics of the landing zone.
See also Dazu Rock Carvings References External links Media related to Dazu Lotus Manor at Wikimedia Commons
After this incident Krasavka was adopted by Oleg Gazenko, a leading Soviet scientist working with animals used in space flights.
Its overwhelming popularity is due largely to inertia: it has been widely used and widely studied, and therefore it is used even more.
tardigradum has a symmetrical body with eight legs; it uses claws—a distinctive feature of this tardigrade species.
The BIOPAN electronics consists of the following units: signal acquisition board, microcontroller board with its flight software, memory board and EGSE.
In 1996, a third-grade teacher, Joan Goble, and her students found a tree in their local area with a plaque identifying it as a Moon tree.
Mesotardigrada is one of three classes of tardigrades, consisting of a single species, Thermozodium esakii.
A stray mongrel from the streets of Moscow, she flew aboard the Sputnik 2 spacecraft, launched into low orbit on 3 November 1957.
The primary objective of the study is to study the physiology of aging and the effect of age on disease progression using groups of young and old mice.
Roger Ebert gave a positive review of three stars and said in his review that "Space Chimps is delightful from beginning to end." Neil Genzlinger of The New York Times said that Space Chimps was "hilarious".
Gallery References External links European orb-weavers Roggenbuck, Helma; Pekár, Stano; Schneider, Jutta M.
After more than 30 years apart, Nadia arrives in America, visits Amos, and tells him and Nat's mother about the Soviet plot to divert the mission.
Tardigrades have been phylogenetically linked to arthropods and likely has a similar evolutionary history.
Budding yeast was selected not only because of its flight heritage, but also because of its similarities with human cells, especially its DSB repair mechanisms.
The webs are built by the larger females, which hang head down in the center of the web or remain hidden in nearby foliage, with one claw hooked to a signal line connected to the main orb, waiting for a disturbance to signal the arrival of prey.
Most of the Moon trees were given away in 1975 and 1976 to state forestry organizations, in order to be planted as part of the nation's bicentennial celebration.
Astronaut photos have been used to document planetary weather phenomena, for instance in 2025 an astronaut photo depicted a red sprite, or interactions between the atmosphere and outer space such as the aurora borealis.
In fact, tardigrades are so resilient, populous and varied that an individual will likely consume tens of different species of tardigrade possibly including M.
thyrsiflora), as a particular cultivar of Thai basil, and as a separate cultivar in its own right (i.e., O.
See also Monoblastozoa – another high rank taxon whose sole member has not been independently verified to exist References External links Data related to Mesotardigrada at Wikispecies Tardigrade phylogenetics "Mesotardigrada".
All seems like a wonderful game until Billy realizes his new friend is being prepared to be hurled hundreds of miles into orbit on a historical mission and that someone at NASA is about to sabotage the mission.
On its way back from the Moon, the spacecraft tested its radio systems by transmitting recorded voices.
This significant decline in the population is likely correlated to the booming macaque breeding industry on Mauritius.
With Billy's help and companionship, Mac is chosen to become the first American astronaut launched into space.
Researchers also aim to capture organic compounds and prebiotic organic compounds — such as aminoacids — drifting in space.
Moon Pilot is a 1962 American Technicolor science fiction comedy film from Walt Disney Productions, released through Buena Vista Distribution, directed by James Neilson, and starring Tom Tryon, Brian Keith, Edmond O'Brien, Dany Saval, and Tommy Kirk.
After flying for over 2,400 km (1,500 mi) and reaching a height of 500 km (310 mi) before returning to Earth, Gordo landed in the South Atlantic and was killed due to mechanical failure of the parachute recovery system in the rocket nose cone.
Plot Sergeant Deadhead is a bumbling soldier who is sent to the guardhouse for blowing up a model rocket on the parade ground of the air base where he is stationed.
Later it was reported that Nadezhda's grandchildren, born to one of the space-born insects, had given birth on Earth to normal cockroaches, with a life cycle and development similar to that of any other cockroach.
On 31 January 1961, as part of Project Mercury, the chimpanzee Ham became the first hominid launched into space for a suborbital flight.
An astronaut photo is a photograph taken by a human space traveler, called an astronaut or cosmonaut.
While it was reported that Nadezhda's offspring were the first earthlings to be conceived in microgravity, Japanese rice fish successfully conceived and produced offspring in microgravity as part of the IML-2 experiment aboard STS-65 in 1994.
Relay satellite The primary function of the Queqiao relay satellite that is deployed in a halo orbit around the Earth–Moon L2 point is to provide continuous relay communications between Earth and the lander on the far side of the Moon.
For example, in the United Kingdom in 2017, only around 300 Mongolian gerbils were used in experimental procedures, compared to over 2 million mice.
The upper-stage rocket failed and the craft re-entered the atmosphere after reaching a sub-orbital apogee of 214 km (133 mi).
Fluorescent Deep Space Petri-Pod (FDSPP) is a miniaturised space biology experiment platform developed for studying biological organisms in microgravity and deep space conditions using fluorescent and white-light imaging.
Popularity By far the most popular laboratory rodent, the C57BL/6 mouse accounts for 1⁄2 to 5⁄6 of all rodents shipped to research laboratories from American suppliers.
Dezik made another sub-orbital flight in 1951 with the first dog named Lisa (Лиса, "Fox"), although neither survived because the parachute failed to deploy.
1950s In February 1953, the United States launched several unmanned balloons containing fruit flies in various experiments.
Nadezhda and the rest of the insects were traveling inside a sealed special container, and a video-camera was filming the whole process.
Tumblebrook Farm Most gerbils used in scientific research are derived from the Tumblebrook Farm strain, which has its origins in 20 pairs of wild-caught Mongolian gerbils sent to Japan in 1935.
Wilhelm von Huber, a top NASA scientist, relocates to Cape Canaveral with his 12-year-old son, Billy.
Environmental systems keep the container hospitable and Earth-like, except for the low lunar gravity and radiation.
History In the 2010s there was an increased desire for long-term space missions, which led to desire for space-based plant production as food for astronauts.
Physiological adaptations and growth This lichen experiences high fluxes of photosynthetically active radiation, desiccation, and cold temperatures.
Common squirrel monkeys have been established at Silver Springs since at least the late 1960s; rhesus macaques were established in the area by 1938, but there is no firm information on when the squirrel monkeys were released.
This is a list of species that have landed on the Moon, only including landings in which the payload survived.
Fe, Fi, Fo, Fum, and Phooey were five mice who orbited the Moon 75 times on the 1972 Apollo 17 mission.
Biosatellite 2 Biosatellite 2, also known as Biosat 2 and Biosatellite B, was the second mission in the Biosatellite program.
Description Cinnamon basil, also known as Mexican spice basil, has a spicy, fragrant aroma and flavor.
Longjiang 2's crash site is located at 16.6956°N 159.5170°E﻿ / 16.6956; 159.5170﻿ (Longjiang-2 impact site) inside Van Gent crater, where it made a 4 by 5 metre crater upon impact.
Species that have orbited or circled the Moon without landing Humans and other animals have orbited or circled the Moon without landing.
VEG-03D, growing mustard, red romaine lettuce and ‘Waldmann’s Green’ lettuce using ‘cut-and-come-again’ repetitive harvest technique in 2017 - this was harvested and eaten on Thanksgiving.
Its mission was to support studies of the Moon and circumlunar space, to obtain color photography of Earth and the Moon from varying distances, and to flight test the spacecraft systems.
It grows in hardiness zones 4 to 9, prefers full sun or partial shade, well-drained soil and a pH of 6.5–7.0.
The story reveals the space chimpanzees' triumphs and tragedies and brings to light the virtually unknown account of how the colony was rewarded for their long and challenging service to NASA, the Air Force, and the United States.
The crusts can generally grow up to 7 cm (2+3⁄4 in) in diameter (smaller sizes are more common), although neighbouring individuals may coalesce to form larger crusts.
Milnesium tardigradum is a cosmopolitan species of tardigrade that can be found in a diverse range of environments.
Although faithful to "Mother Russia", the chimpanzees vow to take revenge on humankind for declaring their obsolescence.
Gallery See also Animals in space Fee-fi-fo-fum, the namesake portion of the 1734 English fairy tale "Jack and the Beanstalk" Zond 5, a Soviet space program circumlunar voyage in September 1968, by two tortoises and assorted small plants and insects.
The categories of disability considered for the program were individuals with lower limb deficiency (either through amputation or congenital), leg length difference, or a short stature (less than 130 centimetres or 4 feet 3 inches).
When Sergeant Deadhead is discovered to be aboard the rocket, General Fogg decides to spin the facts and say that Sergeant Deadhead volunteered for the mission.
It was based on the heritage of a low-tech Russian exposure container called KNA (Kontejner Nauchnoj Apparatury).
thaliana is native to Europe, Asia, and Africa, and its geographic distribution is rather continuous from the Mediterranean to Scandinavia and Spain to Greece.
It was the outcome of an initiative by CNES with the purpose of enabling transportation of more substantial experiments to greater altitudes than the Véronique sounding rocket, also created by the LRBA and in active service at the time.
Consequently, it is often abundant in areas affected by agricultural runoff, bird perches, and atmospheric nitrogen deposition, where nutrient enrichment can alter lichen community structures by reducing acid-sensitive species.
Before 2019, only animals (in particular one species, Homo sapiens) landed on the Moon; in January 2019, plants and fungi also landed on the Moon.
Hawley on the keyboard for the 'Fajita Fest' in February, an annual event thrown by NASA Mission Operations Directorate.
The research was sponsored by the United States Department of Defense (DoD) Space Test Program and the Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS), manager of the ISS National Laboratory.
Other notable biosatellites include: Bion space program of the Soviet Union The Mars Gravity Biosatellite Orbiting Frog Otolith (OFO-A) See also Animals in space References External links Media related to Biosatellite at Wikimedia Commons
Dsup protein has been found to be neurotoxic and promote neurodegeneration when expressed in cultured neurons by increasing DNA damage through the formation of double strand breaks.
They do not deny that macaques on Mauritius prey on bird eggs and disseminate seeds of exotic plants yet the major loss of species on Mauritius is due to habitat loss caused by humans – macaques are successful because they prefer secondary forest and disturbed habitats.
thaliana research by collecting a large number of accessions (often questionably referred to as "ecotypes").
They are also nearly everywhere in the environment and, although normally invisible, can form slimy biofilms.
In accordance with the plea agreement, he was sentenced to three concurrent terms of life in prison.
The lab reports were passed on by the Zimbabwe Republic Police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) through Interpol to the FBI, who subsequently visited Zimbabwe to interview Cotton and the pathologist in Bulawayo, Stanford Mathe.
Legal impact Cullen moved from facility to facility undetected mainly because of the lack of requirements to report suspicious behavior by medical workers and inadequate legal obligations on employers.
Petrov was sentenced to life imprisonment and is suspected to have killed up to 19 people until his arrest.
He confessed to five murders of which he was convicted of four, but is suspected of committing up to 131 in total.
Trial and imprisonment At the first trial, the prosecution held Leonardo Cazzaniga responsible for all the deaths that occurred at the Saronno Hospital.
Motives Cullen stated that he had overdosed patients to spare them from going into cardiac or respiratory arrest and being listed as a Code Blue emergency.
Murders Petrov committed his first murder on 2 February 1999 during his thirtieth robbery, when he was interrupted by the daughter of an anaesthetised patient who returned home while he was stealing.
On June 4, 1977, Lee's husband, John Henry, died after he had begun experiencing wracking pains in his stomach and chest along with vomiting and diarrhea.
Biography At fifteen, Caleffi began to suffer from depression and anorexia nervosa, but at school, she remained a very quiet girl, with good performance in school.
After serving less than seven years of her life sentence, Blauensteiner died from a brain tumour on 18 November 2003, in a Vienna hospital.
At first, they were at a loss to prove that the bleach had indeed gone from the patients' dialysis lines into their bloodstreams.
A skeletonized corpse was discovered in May 1923 that was identified as his by officials who examined the remains at the time.
Police believe she killed a total of 17 and attempted 18 other murders, but she was convicted of only seven.
The coroner questioned Adams's treatment and in his summing up said that it was "extraordinary that the doctor, knowing the past history of the patient" did not "at once suspect barbiturate poisoning".
In 2008, the Justice Ministry in Austria announced that it would release Wagner and Leidolf from prison due to good behaviour.
Wood was incarcerated in the minimum security Federal Correctional Institution, Tallahassee in Florida; she was released January 16, 2020 and is expected to live with relatives in South Carolina.
She was also known as "The Ogress of Colonia Roma," "The Female Ripper of Colonia Roma" and "The Human Crusher of Little Angels." Early life She was born in 1890 in Cerro Azul, Veracruz to a mother who was not affectionate towards her.
According to an August 2017 statement by the director of the special commission "Kardio", the "provable Oldenburg and Delmenhorst homicides [...] were only the tip of the iceberg".
Murders Hahn allegedly began poisoning and robbing elderly men in Cincinnati's German community to support her gambling habit.
Witness and expert testimonies Out of the thirty-two witnesses present at the trial, eight testified under oath.
An initial indictment was issued in 2017, expanded in 2019 and then in 2022, covering a total of thirty cases, including twelve fatalities.
Mongar." The seven other murder charges are all of first-degree murder; they relate to babies, whom staff have testified they saw move or cry after complete birth, and whose deaths are alleged to have resulted from subsequent lethal action.
The funeral home added the cost of the bribes it paid to the killers to the bills that the families of the deceased paid for their funerals.
Because of the publicity surrounding Adams's committal hearing, the law was changed to allow defendants to ask for such hearings to be held in private.
He told a television reporter prior to his trial, "I don't regret what I did", adding "I did it to those in irreversible comas and whose families were suffering." He was convicted on February 21, 2000, of the murders of four patients and sentenced to 76 years in prison.
The Malmö Östra hospital murders were a Swedish case of serial senicide committed by the 18-year-old Anders Hansson at a hospital in Malmö between October 1978 and January 1979.
Fifer had commuted his sentence after Cream's brother pleaded for leniency and allegedly bribed the authorities.
The medical records of these patients showed that the Pavulon found in their bodies was not prescribed to them by a medical professional.
Angel of Death: The Donald Harvey Story archived from <crimelibrary> CBS News: "Serial killer known as the "Angel of Death" found severely beaten in prison", cbsnews.com.
It is thought that Bueno committed his crimes so that he could be the first to notice a problem with a patient, thereby earning the respect and admiration of his co-workers.
At the time of the interview, Takeshi was already dead and Ishikawa was operating a real estate office in Tokyo, and she boasted about having built a big tomb for herself two years before.
Cullen had killed at least 13 patients and attempted to kill at least one more by mid-2003, using digoxin, insulin, and epinephrine.
The aides were caught after a doctor overheard them bragging about their latest murder at a local tavern.
Maria Gruber, Irene Leidolf, Stephanija Meyer, and Waltraud Wagner were four Austrian women who worked as nurse's aides at the Geriatriezentrum am Wienerwald in Lainz, Vienna, and who murdered scores of patients between 1983 and 1989.
He declined to pay his $50,000 bail, fearing for his safety given the high-profile nature of the case.
While examining her home, the gendarmes found the marked korona paid for the poison provided by Palinkás.
Crimes Gifford was renowned in her community for her cooking skills and caring for sick neighbors and relatives.
The main murderer of Brigadier Mukhtar and Reza Shah himself." See also Amir Abdollah Tahmasebi Abdolhossein Teymourtash Mahmud Khan Puladeen Colonel Pessian External links ايران در سه قرن گذشته (Iran in the Last Three Centuries) by Alireza Avsati.
Semi-conscious women scheduled for abortions were moaning in the waiting room or the recovery room, where they sat on dirty recliners covered with blood-stained blankets.
Mays was fired from the hospital in June 2018, and the investigation was turned over to the Inspector General for the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Crimes On 7 March 1997, Blauensteiner was found guilty of murdering 77-year-old Alois Pichler and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Palinkás refused, and instead informed the gendarmes in Kistelek, who were already keeping tabs on the suspicious old woman.
The Besançon poisonings was a French legal case resulting in the conviction of French anesthesiologist Frédéric Péchier to a life sentence for intentionally poisoning 30 patients and killing 12.
The killings were carried out in Toppan's capacity as a nurse, targeting patients and their family members.
See also List of serial killers by country List of serial killers by number of victims == References ==
They indicated that the perpetrator would not have stopped killing if they would have been detained.
Prosecutor Raúl Garzón labelled the case as "enormously grave" but initially insisted that they could have been either cases of malpractice or hospital-acquired infections, and no accusations were made.
In 1955, Fikáčková graduated from the medical school in Klatovy, and in 1957 she began working as a nurse in the obstetrics department of the hospital in Sušice.
See also Dr John Bodkin Adams Dr Harold Shipman General: List of homicides in Michigan List of serial killers in the United States References External links Doctors who killed Witnesses Open Homicide Case Against Doctor Fall Kills Dr.
He was charged with 25 counts of homicide but later retracted his confession and denied all charges for the rest of his five-month trial.
The common thought in Edinburgh was that he was culpable in the events; he was lampooned in caricature and, in February 1829, a crowd gathered outside his house and burned an effigy of him.
Felícitas Sánchez Aguillón or Sánchez Neyra (1890 – June 16, 1941) was a Mexican nurse, midwife, baby farmer and serial killer, active during the 1930s in Mexico City, who killed babies in her care.
The details of the murders came almost entirely from accounts to criminal justice authorities by Wood, whose murder charges were reduced by a plea agreement so she could testify against Graham in Graham's trial for first-degree murder.
Trial Malèvre went on trial in Versailles on 20 January 2003 on charges of murdering seven gravely ill patients between 1997 and 1998.
She became eligible for release on parole after her minimum tariff of 30 years' imprisonment expired in November 2021.
On 7 May 1998, Francis Henry, 83, was transported to the Lehigh Valley Hospital after choking on his own vomit.
Non-legislative actions resulting from the case In February 2011, Governor Tom Corbett fired six employees and commenced action to fire eight others where, for legal or contractual reasons, more extensive dismissal procedures were required.
Toppan is often considered an "angel of mercy", a type of serial killer who takes on a caretaker role and attacks the vulnerable and dependent, though she also murdered for seemingly more personal reasons, such as in the case of the Davis family.
for $1,000 that she borrowed from him, but after his death, the document was either discarded or simply "disappeared".
Although she was only convicted of a total of three murders, Austrian police believe that she may have murdered at least 10 people.
During the trial, Wood plea-bargained her way to a reduced sentence, claiming that it was Graham who planned and carried out the killings while she served as a lookout or distracted supervisors.
Agüero later accused a colleague of hers of the deaths, saying that this male nurse was present where the deaths occurred "all the time".
February 15: The Kanagawa Prefectural Police arrest Imai, after he made statements incriminating himself.
See also Anders Hansson, a nursing aide who committed similar murders at a nursing home in Malmö, Sweden, during roughly the same time.
Hansson poisoned elderly patients during his working hours as an orderly with the detergents Gevisol and Ivisol.
Angels of death: The Male Nurses -- Farther East (in Japanese) Timeline Japan Institute of Constitutional Law Data base of wrongful convictions in Japan Newspaper articles, chronology and present status of the appeal is available at: http://www.jiadep.org/Hokuriku_Clinic.html
Trial Confessions and exhumations In the days following her arrest, when she was brought to justice in the Jutjat d'instrucció of Olot, Vila confessed to killing the last three victims.
Three patients' deaths – two elderly men, George Keep, 84 and Arnold Lancaster, 71, and a woman, Tracey Arden, 44 – were attributed to the alleged contamination, although it was also reported that each of the patients also had underlying medical conditions that made them weaker.
Arnfinn Nesset (25 October 1936 – 2 December 2025) was a Norwegian nurse and nursing home manager who was a convicted serial killer.
London Using money inherited from his father, who had died in 1887, Cream sailed for England, arriving in Liverpool on 1 October 1891 (three years after the Jack the Ripper killings had been committed).
The inquiry recommended the introduction of 'student practice passports', which would report on the personality and integrity of students while they trained as medical professionals at university.
In October of that year, Swango was arrested by the Quincy Police Department after arsenic and other poisons were found in his possession.
His lawyer has been quoted as saying that Zelenka may have killed on an impulse to "test" doctors in Havlíčkův Brod, in the belief they were not good enough to discover the truth.
Murders Her first victim was her mother Johanna, in 1880; not long thereafter, she poisoned her father, Clemens.
Fearing he had discovered that she had been forging checks on his account, Barfield mixed an arsenic-based rat poison into his beer and tea.
When the victim was injected, their brain cells would cease to function properly, altering their breathing and heart rhythm and leading them into a coma.
Suspicions were raised about an additional twelve deaths after the grand jury investigation of the five deaths.
Then I would close the orifices of the body with cotton, stuffing it in the ears, nostrils, and so on.
The evidence against her overwhelmed her claims, however, and in turn, Mária Gerzsány was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder and complicity in murder, and sent to serve her sentence at the Márianosztra prison in 1912.
She was charged with three counts of murder and 19 counts of attempted murder.Authorities also linked her to the deaths of 17 patients.
His defense pointed out this contradiction on the high court, but the high court in Sendai upheld the original sentence on March 22, 2006.
See also List of serial killers in the United States List of serial killers active in the 2020s == References ==
The prosecution of Narciso and Perez for the murders became a focal point for many protest groups and Filipinos, who united in their condemnation of the handling of the case and expressed support for both nurses.
While most Austrians opposed capital punishment, many felt that the woman had not served enough time in prison for their crimes.
After consulting with the pharmacist, and tracing that all of the deaths occurred during one particular shift, Norris ordered that the cabinets with Mivacron be locked up and accessed only by the supervisors, and that the police should be immediately notified.
At around 9:00 pm the Grays returned briefly to collect some clothing for their children, and saw Burke, Hare, their wives and Docherty all drunk, singing and dancing.
On 6 December 2007, Mr Justice Stanley Burnton, sitting in the High Court of Justice, London, ordered Allitt to serve the original minimum sentence of 30 years.
She later met a radiologist and went to live with him in Tavernerio, where she finished her job in a state of reclusion at home.
Mr Justice Openshaw sentenced Chua, a Filipino national, to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 35 years, meaning he will be 84 years old when he becomes eligible for parole.
He stabbed the daughter with a screwdriver and then strangled the unconscious patient with a stocking.
In addition to Cazzaniga and Taroni, police also investigated five other employees at the hospital (general manager Paolo Valentini; medical director Roberto Cosentina; medical examiner Maria Luisa Pennuto; ER director Nicola Scoppetta and oncologist Giuseppe di Luca).
Norris to contact a pharmacist about a discrepancy he had taken note of: during this period, vials of Mivacron had been going missing, which was initially ascribed to inventory mismanagement, as it was not considered a lethal substance.
At the inquest into Matilda Clover's death that was held by Athelstan Braxton Hicks in July 1892, he read out a letter signed by Jack the Ripper, declaring "Dr Neill" innocent, which produced laughter, including from "Neill".
Nykopp-Koski was tried in Helsinki District Court in December 2010 and pleaded not guilty, though the court convicted her.
After seeing that she was disoriented and had difficulty breathing, Vila went to the supply closet and filled a syringe with laundry detergent, which she then injected directly into the woman's mouth.
His charges included 16 counts of murder, 12 counts of manslaughter and one count of killing on request.
The non-murder charges included 24 counts of violating Pennsylvania's Abortion Act by performing illegal third-trimester abortions, 227 counts of violating a 24-hour waiting-period requirement, failing to counsel patients, and racketeering.
Victorino Chua On 5 January 2012, it was revealed that a death had occurred on 31 December 2011, after Leighton had been dismissed, and was now being linked to the investigation.
According to one theory, she showed symptoms of a factitious disorder also known as Munchausen syndrome by proxy.
It has been reported that Gosnell spent four decades practicing medicine among the poor, including a teen-aid program and opening the Mantua Halfway House, a rehab clinic for drug addicts in the impoverished Mantua neighborhood of West Philadelphia.
Adams paid the cheque into his account the next day, and on being told that it would clear by the 21st, asked for it to be specially cleared – to arrive in his account the next day.
On May 2, 2024, she was sentenced to three consecutive life terms, along with 380 to 760 additional years.
In 2014, prosecutors claimed Högel acted out of boredom and the desire to show off his resuscitation skills.
The forms needed for a cremation in England and Wales have had their questions altered as a direct result of the Shipman case.
Doctor Janusz Kuliński was sentenced to six years and banned from practising medicine for 10 years, for willfully endangering 10 patients.
The publicity for the film described "A demented nun sliding through morphine addiction into madness, whilst presiding over a regime of lesbianism, torture and death.
See also List of serial killers by country Baba Anujka The True Crime Podcast In Search of Lost Crime did an episode on Goeie Mie References Footnotes === Bibliography ===
During this period, according to Shipman's cellmate, he received a letter from Primrose exhorting him to "Tell me everything, no matter what." A 2005 inquiry found that Shipman's suicide "could not have been predicted or prevented", but that procedures should nonetheless be re-examined.
Judge Myron Duhart told Elliott, "No matter how bad a person is, that does not give you the right to be the judge, jury, and executioner." Prosecutors claimed that Elliott had targeted Harvey out of jealousy since he was receiving different meals at the prison because of his religion.
Shipman witnessed his mother's pain subside, despite her terminal condition, until her death on 21 June 1963.
Time magazine reported that Bombeek was finally apprehended through the efforts of fellow nuns who worked within the 38-bed geriatric ward and who recorded a string of mysterious deaths and other irregularities.
Becker, who was considered a dutiful nurse, had previously worked as a nurse in an intensive care unit for 35 years.
While examining the latter's body, medical personnel again found traces of blood and damage to her genitalia, but due to her advanced age and negligence on part of the staff, no autopsy was performed and the cause of death was ruled as a heart attack.
She had twin daughters with him but didn't want to take care of them, and suggested to her husband that they give them up for adoption.
See also List of French serial killers List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
The respiratory arrests were unexplained since none of the patients' conditions should have caused a respiratory arrest to occur.
During the mental health assessment, psychiatrists found out that Nykopp-Koski is psychopathic and has an antisocial personality disorder, but she was deemed culpable for her actions.
However, her only confirmed victims were Stanley Jagodowski, Henry Hudon, Kenneth Cutting, and Edward Skwira.
In January 2004, Jackson was charged with an additional six murders, and her bond raised from $2 million to $6 million.
An example of a malignant hero serial killer was Richard Angelo, who was called the "angel of death", or angel of mercy.
Pier Paolo Brega Massone is the former chief thoracic consultant at the Santa Rita medical clinic in Milan, Italy.
I can only say I’m sorry for the pain I caused them and my family." In addition to her sentence, Mays was ordered to pay $172,624.96 to the victims' families, the VA Hospital, Medicare, and insurance companies.
Agüero graduated as a nurse with excellent results in 2018 and moved to Córdoba, where she worked at a private hospital between 2019 and December 2020, when she resigned to keep her only job at the Ramón Castillo Neonatal Hospital.
Although originally charged with the lesser charge of manslaughter, Malèvre's charge was upgraded to murder, following a report stating that she had a “morbid fascination” with death and disease — patients were three to four times more likely to die during her duty periods.
The Swedish novelist Arne Dahl also used the events as an inspiration in his book A Midsummer Night's Dream (2003) See also List of serial killers by country References External links BBC report
On 2 December 2011, it was reported that Leighton had been dismissed from her job as a nurse at Stepping Hill Hospital.
On 16 May 2019, after 48 hours of prolonged police custody, the doctor was brought before the judge of liberties, who nevertheless decided not to place him in pre-trial detention.
On 9 April 2014, Brega Massone, was tried for 4 murders and 34 battery cases in a different trial, and was convicted to life sentence.
Clark was convicted on two manslaughter counts for the deaths of his assistants and sentenced to prison for a term of three to 15 years.
Petrov had been married twice and has three children, one from his first marriage and two from his second marriage.
The district attorney declined to prosecute Mors, finding him to be criminally insane, and committed him to the Hudson River State Hospital, pending deportation to Austria.
She incrementally leaked out her version of the homicides, portraying Graham as the mastermind and hands-on killer.
Closing arguments On March 1, 2018, the closing arguments were presented, with the prosecution demanding the death penalty for Imai.
Ahmad Ahmadi (Persian: احمد احمدی; 1885 – October 1944, known as Pezeshk Ahmadi meaning Physician Ahmadi) was an Iranian nurse.
The first two victims she was charged with murdering were James Bartoe, 55, and Joseph Campbell, 83.
His parents split up three months before his birth, with his father Kasper moving to Michigan while Feltner remained with his mother, Shirley.
Arrest Angelo first came to the attention of the public in October 1987 when he was suspected of poisoning a patient at then Good Samaritan Medical Center.
In January 2018, German prosecutors charged Högel with the murder of 97 patients and announced their intention to file charges against other hospital staff who failed to act.
After her release in 1916, she moved to Saint-Gilles in 1920 with her violent and abusive partner and began work as a private nurse.
Victims Carl Hitzel, 78, by administering morphine Henry Haensel, 67, by giving arsenic Carl Garf, 65, by giving arsenic Mrs.
Number of victims In his initial confession in 1998, Saldivar told police that he actively killed up to 50 patients and he contributed to the deaths of between 100 and 200 patients.
Eventually, Vila was hired by a small private nursing home in Banyoles, El Mirador de Banyoles, where she worked as a nursing assistant for about eight months.
He fled while they went to get the proper paper work but was caught near Port Austin, 125 miles north of Detroit.
But when medical examination failed to reveal physical evidence of homicide, not entirely unusual in a smothering case, the county medical examiner nevertheless ruled the deaths homicides, basing it on the interviews Wood had given to the police.
He obtained work as a respiratory therapist employed by the Glendale Adventist Medical Center, working the night shift when there were fewer staff on duty.
Heather Irene Pressdee (born August 28, 1982) is an American registered nurse and convicted serial killer.
His death mask and a book said to be bound with his tanned skin is on display at Surgeons' Hall Museum.
Nonetheless, it was another decade before OSU conceded it should have called in outside investigators.
After working there for three and a half years without incident, Vila began killing her patients in August 2009.
Mays offered no motive but claimed to be taking medication for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
During the interview, she readily admitted to infusing the bags of at least 20 patients with diamitol.
Daisuke Mori (守 大助, Mori Daisuke; born April 28, 1971) is a Japanese nurse, who was convicted for giving lethal doses of the muscle relaxant drug vecuronium to his patients in a clinic in Izumi-ku, Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture.
Homicides and investigation During a few months in 1975, patients at the VA hospital in Ann Arbor, Michigan, began suffering respiratory failure and sometimes died with extraordinary frequency.
Her father, George Filser, was a furniture manufacturer, and the family was considered to be well-off financially.
During his detention, Hooijmaijers confessed to killing 15 of his patients, but denied the remaining charges.
Thus, the remainder of the sentence can be suspended after serving 15 years (counting from her arrest in October 2006), i.e.
Investigators criticized the hospital for meeting them with "a wall of silence" as they attempted to look into a suspicious 1988 death.
After his release on November 19, Feltner moved to Daytona Beach, where he lived in an apartment above a bar on Main Street.
Andermatt was convicted on 28 January 2005, by the Lucerne Criminal Court for murder in 22 cases, attempted murder in three cases and unfinished murder in two cases with resignation and life imprisonment.
At the long-term care part of the hospital, a total of 27 patients were poisoned to death, with at least 11 confirmed victims.
Instead, the patients had to fill out a daunting five-page form, available only in English, that required them to reveal their identities upfront and be available to testify in Harrisburg.
Infanticide In the late 1940s, during the immediate postwar period, many babies were kept at Kotobuki San'in.
On July 28, she was charged with an additional murder concerning the death of another patient in September 2016, who died after the antiseptic solution was mixed in with his drip.
He worked as a nurse at Qasr Prison in Tehran, where he was ordered to kill political prisoners; he was later executed for these crimes.
Life Andermatt worked as a nurse in various retirement homes in central Switzerland, including the Eichhof retirement home in Lucerne.
In 2002, she worked in two different periods at the nursing home of Albese con Cassano, and in the department of psychiatry.
Smith, owner of the W H Smith bookstalls, accusing him of the murder and demanding money for his silence.
According to prosecutors, Gosnell's staff gave the 90-pound woman a lethal dose of anesthesia and painkillers during a 2009 abortion.
On the contrary, Hayato denied the claims, saying that he had no memory of being at the facility at the designated time frame.
"My mom is actually up for parole right now, but the victims' family members are appealing so it's taking a while for her to get out...but she's going to get out." She stayed on the air with Howard for about 10 minutes.
They described Wood as both a coercive and seductive pathological liar who delighted in wreaking havoc in the lives of others.
Finding these injuries highly suspicious, he refused to declare the cause of death as natural and insisted that he performed an autopsy on both bodies, which revealed that both women had been raped, with Borda being strangled and Alston suffocated to death.
On 15 May 2008 he was found guilty by judge Valéria Caldi on four counts of murder and four counts of attempted murder.
A week or two later one of McDougal's relatives, Ann Dougal (also given as McDougal) was visiting from Falkirk; after a few days the men killed her by their usual technique and received £10 for the body.
As of March 2025, Joyner is still alive and serving his prison sentence at the State Correctional Institution – Phoenix in Skippack Township.
The same professionals stated that these traits are "typical mechanisms of a psychopathic personality".
She and defense team attended an evidentiary hearing in 2015, seeking a new trial and a dismissal of writ, but no results have been reported of that endeavor.
Hayato Imai (今井 隼人, Imai Hayato; born 1991) is a Japanese serial killer who murdered three elderly people at a nursing home in Saiwai-ku, Kawasaki between November and December 2014.
Swanenburg was found guilty of having killed at least three victims, and she was sentenced to life imprisonment in a correctional facility, where she died in 1915.
At his sentencing hearing, Swango admitted to causing three murders, lying about his role in causing a fourth death, and lying about his 1985 conviction.
Mays was a longtime member of Monroe Chapel United Methodist, a small church approximately twenty minutes outside Clarksburg in Lost Creek.
In February 2008, Zelenka was convicted of killing seven patients and attempting to kill 10 others, and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Proving any such cases proved to be a difficult task, as neither the surviving victims or their family members wished to cooperate about the suspicious deaths, and their testimonies often proved inaccurate or contradictory.
Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter (D-PA) said, "I think it's quite clear that, if these allegations are true, we've had a monster living in our midst" while vowing to watch the city's remaining abortion clinics more closely.
She was arrested and imprisoned for fraud and theft in 1915 for stealing valuables and posing as injured men to receive funds.
Elfriede Martha Blauensteiner (22 January 1931 – 16 November 2003), dubbed The Black Widow, was an Austrian serial killer who murdered at least three victims by poison.
However, Mark Sochaski, an analytical chemist and bioterrorism expert, was developing a test for measuring chlorine exposure by measuring the presence of chlorotyrosine, an amino acid formed from exposure to chlorinating agents such as bleach.
It is believed that by the time Hall was killed, Norris had become confident he could carry on killing without being caught since no blood tests for insulin had been done.
Early life Born in Brownsville, Texas, he graduated from the College of Medical and Dental Careers in North Hollywood, California in 1988.
As well, her name was on the industry's lists as a representative of a real-estate agent named Asahi Shōji (朝日商事), whose address was also same as Kotobuki San'in, until the end of 1986.
Ahmadi, along with Sarpās Mokhtār (Central Police chief), Mostafā Rāsekh, and Hosein Niroumand, was arrested and tried for crimes committed during Rezā Shāh's reign.
From the ages of five to eighteen, Harvey was sexually molested by both an uncle and a neighbor, but he told no one except his sister, and only after the abuse ended.
On 8 December 2023, authorities reportedly denied her transfer request from the Rampton Secure Hospital, a high-security psychiatric facility, to a mainstream prison.
As a result, the venue for the upcoming trial was moved to San Angelo, and that new jury would be selected.
In 1976, Barfield began caring for the elderly, working for Montgomery and Dollie Edwards in Lumberton.
In the second instance (19 October 2018), the sentence was reduced to 15 years of prison for homicide beyond intent.
Saldivar later confessed to killing at least 60 patients by 1994, claiming that he "lost count" after that but continued killing for at least three more years.
In spite of this, he was found guilty of five murders and sentenced to two life terms and a 23-year ban on practising as a nurse, with the prosecutors claiming that they would seek charges in other deaths.
She worked as a nurse and was found guilty of killing five patients and the attempted murder of five more.
Upon his arrest, a syringe full of some of the drugs he used to attack patients was found on his person.
In October 2010 he was sentenced to 15+1⁄2 years in prison for performing unnecessary operations on patients in order to claim payment for them from the Italian state.
Becker was sentenced on 29 June 2007 by the Landgericht Berlin for murder in five out of eight cases, and given life imprisonment.
On 10 October 2002, Högel received a reference letter issued by the Oldenburg Clinic's director of nursing.
Biography Zelenka was born on February 27, 1976, as the firstborn child of a family of high school-educated parents.
I chose the patients I saw suffering, generally patients with AIDS, patients who were almost terminal.
In the course of one month up to fifteen children are thought to have been targeted, all between the ages of one and ten.
General: List of homicides in Michigan List of fugitives from justice who disappeared List of serial killers in the United States References Further reading Oneal, Zibby; Lindenauer, S.
The "Skin Hunters" (Polish: Łowcy skór) is the media nickname for hospital casualty workers from the Polish city of Łódź responsible for murdering at least five elderly patients and then selling information regarding their deaths to competing funeral homes.
Furthermore, she also made frequent journeys to Ghent, where she dined in sumptuous restaurants and drank premium vintage wine.
After two patients, Thelma Metcalf and Clara Strange, died of cardiac arrest on April 1, DaVita sent clinical coordinator Amy Clinton to the Lufkin clinic.
A play titled Beyond Belief – Scenes from the Shipman Inquiry, written by Dennis Woolf and directed by Chris Honer, was performed at the Library Theatre, Manchester, from 20 October to 22 November 2004.
Letter's killings have been characterized as the worst killing spree in Germany since the Second World War.
Malone, wrote a letter to the prominent physician William Broadbent, claiming to have evidence of his involvement in Clover's death and demanding £25,000 for his silence.
During the procedure, which lasted for two hours, Monro dipped his quill pen into Burke's blood and wrote, "This is written with the blood of Wm Burke, who was hanged at Edinburgh.
The same paralyzing agent had been given to David Onley and to other patients who had gone into respiratory arrest while treated by Geen.
On her cremation form, Adams stated that "as far as I am aware" he had no pecuniary interest in the death, thereby avoiding the necessity of a post-mortem.
Letter also reportedly gave an inappropriate injection to a 22-year-old soldier with minor injuries from a fall; she lost consciousness but recovered.
From September to 8 November 2004, she worked at Manzoni Hospital of Lecco, where she allegedly killed 18 people.
This motive of excitement from inducing a health crisis for the patient has recently been labeled as a professional version of Münchausen syndrome by proxy, a type of factitious disorder.
Hooijmaijers' mother, Maria, would also be arrested on the unrelated charge of poisoning her second husband with arsenic, for which she was sentenced to 8 months imprisonment.
Myllgren had requested to be paroled in March 2021, when she would have served the legal minimum of 12 years.
The remaining five employees at the hospital received much more lenient sentences, with Valentini, Cosentina, Pennuto and Scoppetta each receiving 2 years and 6 months imprisonment.
The judge described Brega Massone as "cruel, malevolent and lacking the slightest sense of human pity".
Perrault testified against her, saying that she confessed at least one murder to him by phone while she was hospitalized in a psychiatric ward.
Prosecutors said Gilbert threatened the life of at least one person verbally and physically in July 1996.
In an effort to prevent her activities, gendarmes imposed higher fines on Gerzsány between 1909 and 1910.
Sherry West was convicted of third-degree murder and other charges, having admitted to administering the overdose that killed Karnamaya Mongar.
Eugène," Petiot pretended to have a means of getting people wanted by the Germans or the Vichy government to safety outside France.
Capture and imprisonment Swanenburg was caught after she poisoned the Frankhuizen family in December 1883.
Eight months later on November 3, 1967, in Farmington Township, Oakland County, Michigan his part-time secretary Grace Neil died as well.
However, they rebuked the claims that her schizophrenia affected her judgment, finding that she was legally sane at the time when she committed the murders.
Police during her house search found books about bulimia, anorexia nervosa, death and her most read novels are Invisible Women by Fabiola De Clercq, Sprecata by Marya Hornbacher, Death is a friend by Marie de Hennezel, and above all Veronika Decides To Die by Paulo Coelho.
Gerolamo Kuchich, 73, from Yugoslavia and visiting Dix Hills, was injected with a non-fatal dose of Pavulon on October 11, 1987.
Federal inmates must serve at least 85 percent of their sentences before being eligible for time off with good behavior, meaning that they likely had only three years to prove that Swango was indeed a murderer.
Grombach had been founder and commander of a small independent espionage agency, known later as "The Pond" that operated from 1942 to 1955.
She recruited Gruber, 19, and Leidolf, 21, and eventually the "house mother" of the group, 43-year-old Stephanija Meyer.
Colleagues noted that whenever patients unexpectedly fell ill Geen was around, leading to their nicknaming him 'Ben Allitt'.
See also List of serial killers in the United States References Further reading Franklin, Diana Britt (October 30, 2006).
Paramedics, unnerved by the situation, passed their concerns on to their superiors at the Lufkin fire department.
He was caught in 1999 when a hospital porter saw Guimarães fill a syringe with potassium chloride and inject a comatose patient who immediately died.
In 2005 he was sentenced to 110 years imprisonment for the murder of four children and the attempted murder of another four.
However, the prosecution indicated that Letter was not the assigned nurse for some of the patients and that some of them were in stable condition and were due to be released from the hospital.
The number of deaths was considered highly unusual, as during the same period, only 78 patients died in other wards on which Hooijmaijers was not active.
See also List of serial killers by country References External links Marie Fikáčková (in Czech) Zdravotní sestra zabíjela novorozence, nenáviděla dětský křik – an article on iDNES.cz (in Czech)
Books Boku wa yatte nai (Daisuke Mori, 2001) ISBN 4-7503-1440-4 See also List of serial killers by number of victims References External links Very Questionable Care Time, January 22, 2001 Crime Library.
She and her second husband had a third daughter, who was placed in state care after her father was convicted for involvement in the murders.
He killed with a hidden vial of heparin — a blood-thinning drug causing internal bleeding when administered in large doses.
The police were informed and a higher than average death rate on his ward increased their suspicions.
On March 20, 1967, Hannah Bowerbank, Clark's 63-year-old secretary, collapsed and died while at work.
Firstly, the 2004 Patient Safety Act increased hospitals' responsibility for reporting "serious preventable adverse events".
While examining Borda's body, the doctors found traces of blood and injuries on her thighs and genitals.
They described how the hospital workers or paramedics would call funeral homes regarding patient deaths in order to receive a bribe, and sometimes even killed patients.
Crimes Bueno worked as a nurse in the Instituto de Puericultura Martagão Gesteira of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
In 1860, only a few years after his wife's death, Kelley surrendered his two youngest children, eight-year-old Delia Josephine and six-year-old Honora, to the Boston Female Asylum, an orphanage for indigent female children; he never saw them again.
Harvey became a person of interest when investigators learned he had been forced to resign from the Cincinnati VA hospital after he was caught stealing body parts for occult rituals.
Along with Ethel Hall, none of these women were diabetic (nor was anyone else on the ward), and all of them had been admitted to the wards simply suffering from broken hips.
Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas to allow the uptake of glucose in the blood to be used by the muscles and cells of the body for energy.
While staying with relatives Max and Anna Doeschel in Cincinnati, Ohio, Hahn met fellow German immigrant Philip Hahn; they married in 1930.
She was zeroed in as the prime suspect after a colleague claimed that he had seen her enter the room of a patient to whom she was not assigned—soon after she left, his condition worsened and he died.
Their case is featured in the fifth episode, titled "Michigan Wolverines", of the fifth season of the show Deadly Sins.
See also List of serial killers by number of victims References External links BBC News United Press International
Ishikawa's name and address (same as Kotobuki San'in) were listed in telephone directories between 1954 and 1987.
We find common ground in exposing what happened here, and in recommending measures to prevent anything like this from ever happening again.
Prosecutors said that Gilbert tried to poison a patient at the VA hospital on January 28, 1996, and that she caused a medical emergency by removing a patient's breathing tube at the VA hospital on January 30, 1994.
Leidolf received a life sentence as well, on conviction of five murders, while Meyer and Gruber received 20 years and 15 years respectively for manslaughter and attempted murder charges.
According to the magistrate, "it wasn't about euthanasia, as the retirement home was not a deathbed, and Ludivine Chambet was perfectly aware of what she was doing by administering her drug cocktails.
As part of the plea bargain, he would not be charged with the remaining murders and would serve a 25-years-to-life sentence at the Florida State Prison in Raiford.
Jackie, Cathy Wood's daughter, called in to The Howard Stern Show on June 25, 2019, during the news and discussed her mother's story.
Some feign attempting resuscitation, all the while knowing their victim is already dead and beyond help, but hope to be seen as selflessly making an effort.
Toppan administered a drug mixture to the patients she chose as her victims, lay with them, and held them close as they died.
Following the three-day trial, she was found not guilty by reason of insanity and committed to the Missouri State Hospital #4, a psychiatric institution, where she remained until her death in 1951.
Four days later, on 27 February, Fikáčková was arrested directly in the workplace, and during the subsequent interrogation, she confessed to killing the children.
He said that "the evidence shows a murder wasn't committed at all" (although in 2021 the CCRC concluded that Hall's case at least was indeed a clear murder).
In total, they confessed to 49 murders over six years but may have been responsible for as many as 200.
A second basis for this appeal was the testimony of Dorothy Otnow Lewis, Professor of Psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine and an authority on violent behavior, who claimed that Barfield suffered from dissociative identity disorder.
He was transferred three weeks later after he allegedly injured his foot with a grenade, but was attached to a new regiment in September.
Personal life Bertha Alice Williams was born in Morse Mill, Missouri, the daughter of William Poindexter Williams and his wife Matilda, née Lee.
Thus, the court's punishment was above the prosecutor's request, and, in particular, did not follow the line of defense (killing out of sympathy).
His murders were described as the largest number of killings in Germany since the Second World War, until the discovery of Niels Högel's crimes.
This eventually led to the arrest of Cazzaniga and his lover Laura Taroni, with the latter being held for the murders of her husband, mother and father-in-law, who died between June and October 2013.
The presence of Pavulon was detected in the following seven victims: John Stanley Fisher, 75, of Amityville, died on September 8, 1987.
See also List of serial killers by country List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers References Peter Vronsky: "Female Serial Killers: How and Why Women Become Monsters”, Berkley Books, New York (2007), p.
He was educated as a registered nurse before being hired in 1977 as a head nurse at a larger nursing home in Orkdal Municipality, Sør-Trøndelag.
In 2021, the Criminal Case Review Commission discounted this claim when they said that there was "no dispute" that Hall was "murdered by the injection of insulin".
Eugène.” He claimed he could help Jews and others wanted by the Gestapo flee to South America via Portugal, for a large fee.
Over the course of eleven months, hospital staff eventually attributed the deaths of several patients on the ward to hypoglycemia.
Another of Geen's patients who had been admitted due to stomach pains was found to have midazolam and the paralytic vecuronium in his system, with no one having prescribed him these drugs.
Some of the more famous were Mirza Mohammad Farrokhi Yazdi, Abdolhossein Teymourtash, Sardar As'ad and his brother Khānbābā Khān As'ad, Taghi Arani, and Ayatollah Mirza Mohammad Najafi Khorasani (Ayatollah Aghazadeh).
Angelo devised a plan where he would inject the patient with drugs, then rush into the room and attempt to "save" the patient so that he could be a hero to the patient's family.
His crimes include the murders of at least 22 people, as well as attempted murder, document forgery, and embezzlement.
She discovered in the process that she enjoyed playing God and holding the power of life and death in her hands.
In 1989, he was convicted of murdering several of his patients and sentenced to 50-years-to-life in prison.
On June 23, 1902, in the Barnstable County Courthouse, she was found not guilty by reason of insanity and committed for life in the Taunton Insane Hospital.
Forever And Five Days: The Chilling True Story of Love, Betrayal and Serial Murder in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
In some cases, as time goes on, this behavior escalates to encompass the healthy and the easily treated.
Once she had killed Mrs Van Der Gunst, Bombeek had used her money and jewelry to finance her expensive expeditions to Ghent.
However, once details of the case were leaked by judges and family members, public opinion seemed to turn against Malèvre.
After this, Petrov's modus operandi changed: he began to use a lethal mix of a variety of different drugs to inject into his victims instead of an anaesthetic so that the victim would die, and so the police would think that the killer had little medical knowledge.
Attorney General Richard Delonis to be "highly circumstantial", but the defense lawyers felt that it was strong enough that they had to put their clients on the stand, where they appeared evasive.
Crimes Between 2004 and 2009 Nykopp-Koski worked at a range of hospitals, care homes and patients' homes.
With 22 claimed victims between 1995 and 2001, he is the most prolific serial killer in Swiss criminal history.
The principal French association supporting the right to die immediately dropped its support for Malèvre.
Joan Vila Dilmé The Caretaker of Olot - TV report on TV3's "Crimes" program (Accessed 12 February 2020; in Catalan) [1]
Both newborns were females, aged 20 hours and 5 weeks, and the following autopsy found the babies had died an unnatural violent death.
Arrest At the end of June 2018, the prefectural police began to interview Kuboki based on the circumstantial evidence they had gathered up until then.
While an autopsy did not reveal significantly elevated levels of insulin in Mrs Van Der Gunst's body, Bombeek confessed Van Der Gunst's murder.
She had been arrested for public intoxication and criminal trespass after a 2007 domestic disturbance with her husband, though the two later reconciled.
When the newspaper Résistance published an article about Petiot, his defence attorney from the 1942 narcotics case received a letter in which his fugitive client claimed that the published allegations were mere lies.
Known victims The Frédéric Péchier case, at the start of his trial, involves 30 alleged victims, 12 of whom are deceased.
Miyuki Ishikawa (石川 ミユキ, Ishikawa Miyuki; 5 February 1897 – 30 May 1987) was a Japanese midwife, real estate agent and serial killer.
Imprisonment and execution Barfield was imprisoned at Central Prison in Raleigh, North Carolina, in an area for escape-prone and mentally ill prisoners, as there was no designated area for women under death sentences at the time of her incarceration.
Grundy's body was exhumed and found to contain traces of diamorphine (heroin), often used for pain control in terminal cancer patients.
Soon they had invented their own murder method: while one held the victim's head and pinched their nose, another would pour water into the victim's mouth until they drowned in their bed.
As a nurse in hospital Havlíčkův Brod, 100 kilometres (62 mi) southeast of Prague, he murdered seven patients by lethal injection, and attempted to kill 10 others between May and December, 2006.
On appeal from the defence, the Federal Court of Justice changed the guilty verdict to triple homicide and two counts of manslaughter, but that did not change the sentence.
Currently, Cazzaniga is serving his sentence at a prison in Alessandria and claims to have ceased all contact with Taroni after she accused him of being solely responsible for the deaths of her husband and father-in-law.
He was also suspected of four attempted murders; a 1-year-old girl on 2 February 2000, an 11-year-old girl on 31 October 2000, a four-year-old boy on 13 November 2000 and a 45-year-old man on 24 November 2000.
These alleged malicious acts, which occurred at the Saint-Vincent clinic and the Franche-Comté Polyclinic in Besançon, are said to have led to fatal cardiac arrests in some cases and serious after-effects in others.
In addition, the Kanagawa Prefectural Police believe that another possibility could be the stressful nature of his profession, backed up by remarks made by Hayato himself.
Ultimately, Joyner was found guilty by jury verdict on five counts of first-degree murder and one count of second-degree murder, as well as six counts of rape and one count of burglary.
Subsequent cases It was 25 years before another doctor in Britain, Leonard Arthur, stood trial for murder arising from treatment.
Arrest, trial and death On August 9, Feltner suffered a mental breakdown and sought help from a mental health centre before calling the offices of the local WESH TV station and confessing to his crimes.
Given the high mortality rates and the unregulated use of arsenic for medical and other purposes at the time, it is not certain that she intentionally killed people who had been in her care.
The remains had been there for at least four years and were identified partially based on the type of shoes both Mors and Beno were known to have worn.
In January 1998, Gilbert stood trial for calling in a bomb threat to the Northampton VAMC to retaliate against coworkers and former boyfriend James Perrault (who also worked at the hospital) for their participation in the investigation.
Maria Catherina van der Linden-Swanenburg (9 September 1839 – 11 April 1915) was a Dutch serial killer who murdered at least 27 people and was suspected of killing more than 90 people.
See also Toronto hospital baby deaths - another case in which nurses were accused of motiveless homicides.
Marie Fikáčková (9 September 1936 – 13 April 1961) was a Czech suspected serial killer, convicted for the killing of two newborn babies in Sušice in 1960.
Considered a loner by most of his peers, he started spending a majority of his time visiting gay bars and similar establishments around the area.
It was found that Allitt was the only nurse on duty for all the attacks on the children and had access to the drugs used.
However, Sánchez refused to tell him where their daughters were, which led to their divorce in 1910.
In August 1979, Hansson was sentenced to closed psychiatric treatment, where he remained until 1994.
Employment History On completion of his doctoral studies, Narayan was appointed a lecturer at the Griffith Business School, on the Gold Coast, Australia, and was promoted to senior lecturer in 2005.
Wagner was a member of the six-person lead author team, including Suzi Kerr, that wrote the World Bank's Emissions Trading in Practice : A Handbook on Design and Implementation.
From 1978 to 1988 he was deputy secretary general of OPEC, serving as acting secretary general from 1983 to 1988.
He has been an Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Padova since 2006, specializing in energy economics and electricity market economics.
With uncertainty, firms have options to make capital investments, and much of a firm's value can be attributed to the value of these options, even though many of them may never be exercised.
References External links Jigar Shah – Department of Energy Creating Climate Wealth // Amazon Plumer, Brad; Friedman, Lisa (May 11, 2023).
He previously served as an associate editor for the journal Management Science and was President of the Industry Studies Association.
In 1969, following the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and Eva's graduation, the Smils emigrated to the United States, leaving the country months before a Soviet travel ban shut the borders.
Mar Reguant Ridó (born 1984) is a Spanish and American economist specializing in energy economics, and especially the environmental costs of pollution from electricity generation.
He was given the Dean's Excellence in Teaching Award for Graduate Education at Freeman School of Business in 2014.
The Executive Secretary coordinates the National Security Council meetings and manages vital policy and information communication from the Cabinet and the NSC staff to the President.
He is also an adjunct Professor of finance in INCEIF (International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance) Malaysia Papers and awards He has published more than 130 papers in renowned journals all over the world.
Sponsored by his "Prevent AIDS Now Initiative Committee" (PANIC), Proposition 64 – or the "LaRouche initiative" – qualified for the California ballot in 1986, with the required signature gatherers mostly paid for by LaRouche's Campaigner Publications.
His paper Complexity, Problem Solving, and Sustainable Societies (1996) focuses on the energy cost of problem solving, and the energy-complexity relation in man-made systems.
Her dissertation, Essays in Energy and Environmental Markets, was jointly supervised by Nancy Rose and Stephen P.
Ross is an energy economist and the Executive Chairman and Head of Global Oil for PIRA, an international energy analytics firm, where he oversees short-, medium-, and long-term oil market forecasts.
"Skip" Laitner, Dylan Sullivan, and Nolan Moser, An Issue Brief, Washington, DC: Natural Resources Defense Council.
He was professor at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology and Dubna State University (Moscow region, Dubna city, Russia).
Wagner's Climate Shock, joint with Martin Weitzman, emphasizes that the "known unknowns" and potential "unknown unknowns" instead increase the need for action.
Corruption allegations Three days after becoming acting Mayor, Zucchet resigned from the City Council after he was convicted in U.S.
Lawmakers critiqued the haste with which the budget was considered and passed, having received the 616-page document only that day.
Birol's influence on markets and the world energy community mainly derives from the data-rich reports produced by the IEA which the New York Times described as a "relentless spigot".
Vaclav Smil (Czech: [ˈvaːtslaf ˈsmɪl]; born December 9, 1943) is a Czech-Canadian scientist and policy analyst.
Dunn attended California State University, Long Beach for his Bachelor of Science degree in business administration, California State University, Bakersfield for his Master of Business Administration, and Indiana University Bloomington for his Doctor of Philosophy.
2016 gubernatorial election In December 2015, Inslee announced on Washington's public affairs television channel TVW that he would run for a second term as governor.
2, Brill, Leiden Staff "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" (1984) Contemporary Authors: A bio-bibliographical guide to current writers in fiction, general nonfiction, poetry, journalism, drama, motion pictures, television, and other fields Vol.
He proposed that, when firms use profit sharing wages, meaning employees receive higher wages when a company is doing well, firms have lower rates of unemployment and do better during recessions.
Andrew Leach is a Canadian energy and environmental economist and a contributing writer to a number of Canadian news outlets including The Globe and Mail, and Maclean's.
Paresh Kumar Narayan (born 18 February 1977), is a Fijian-Australian academic of Fiji Indian origin.
Birol's approach to running the organization is both securing energy security while also facilitating the Energy transition.
National Academy of Sciences' Transportation Research Board's Committee on Sustainable Transport and Committee on Developing Countries.
Polenske received her undergraduate degree in Home Economics from the Oregon State University in 1959.
She is the first woman to have held the position of President and CEO of Hydro-Québec between 2020 and 2023.
The organization, which historically had been heavily in favor of the fossil fuel industry, has expanded its scope to include sustainable energy and more members.
Stephen DeCanio (born 1942) is a Professor of economics, emeritus, at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
She was chosen to interview Hillary Clinton (in 2014) and Barack Obama (in 2017) at conferences held in Montreal.
Previously, Parker was Director of Dartmouth's Master of Engineering Management (MEM) program, redesigning it to focus on product management, data analysis, and AI.
The World Nuclear Industry Status Report 2009 Commissioned by German Federal Ministry of Environment, Nature Conservation and Reactor Safety, August 2009.
He previously chaired the US Department of Energy's Task Force on Strategic Energy Research and Development.
The office initially provided $40 billion in loan authority to early-stage energy companies and climate technologies.
Several economists have hailed Georgescu-Roegen as a man who lived well ahead of his time, and some historians of economic thought have proclaimed the ingenuity of his work.
He holds an AB and a PhD in political economy and government from Harvard University, as well as an MA in economics from Stanford University.
Polenske, Roberto Guerrero Compeán, "Antagonistic bioenergies: Technological divergence of the ethanol industry in Brazil", Elsevier, 2011-11-01 Karen R.
where he did his undergraduate work, majoring in physics and electrical engineering, and received his bachelor's degree in 1966.
In 2001, Morse chaired a task force on energy security, sponsored jointly by the Council on Foreign Relations and the James A.
He co-founded Carbon War Room with Richard Branson and Virgin United, an organization that worked to harness the power of entrepreneurship to deploy solution technologies at scale.
Among other works, he is an editor of the book "Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change" and co-author (with Edwin Mansfield) of "Microeconomics| Microeconomics: Theory and Applications".
In July 2021, joined the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) as President of the environmental policy research organization, leading the non-profit in making the case for ambitious and durable climate policies.
Loan Programs Office Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm appointed Shah to direct the United States Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office (LPO) in March 2021.
Gernot Wagner (1980 in Austria) is an Austro-American climate economist at Columbia Business School.
He is the deputy director of the ARC Energy Research Institute, a managing director of energy-focused private equity firm ARC Financial Corporation, and the creator of Energyphile, a multimedia project on energy.
Zucchet (born December 24, 1969) is an American Democratic politician, a former member of the San Diego City Council, and a former deputy mayor of San Diego.
He is affiliated with multiple organizations, as a director on the United States Energy Association, a trustee of the Brookings Institution, a long-term advisor to several U.S.
The company simplified solar as a service through the implementation of the power purchase agreement (PPA) business model.
Nebojsa Nakicenovic (also Nebojša Nakićenović) (born 1949, Belgrade, (former) Yugoslavia) is an energy economist.
More recently, from 2022 to 2024 he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Climate and Energy Economics at the Department of the Treasury, where he received the department's Distinguished Service Award.
Zucchet has also done work with the non-profit Environmental Defense Center in Santa Barbara while in college.
In 2012, Keohane returned to the Environmental Defense Fund as vice president for Global Climate, and later served as Senior Vice President for Climate.
In Energy Efficiency: Building a Clean, Secure Economy (2016), he argued that improvements in energy efficiency have played a central role in U.S.
She has over 30 years of experience in energy, government relations, human resources and sustainability.
He pointed out that the study "stops short of the most that can be supported on a cost benefit basis" and stated that "it does not seem reasonable" to rely solely on Tol's own FUND model when alternatives "reported in the peer-reviewed literature are also credible".
Climate and energy policy Wagner was an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund from 2008 to 2014 and lead senior economist from 2014 to 2016.
From 2001 to 2007, he was an Assistant Professor and then associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management.
He also helped to open Japanese markets to American apples and to fund and oversee the nation's biggest nuclear waste site at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation near Richland, Washington.
Education Shihab-Eldin received all his academic degrees from the University of California, Berkeley: a B.Sc.
He co-developed the theories of two-sided network markets and the inverted firm with Marshall Van Alstyne.
It affects certain investments, such as the sale of stocks and bonds, and taxes profits that total $250,000 or more at 7%.
New York, Hill & Wang/Farrar Straus & Giroux, ISBN 0-8090-5207-5 2015: Climate Shock, joint with Martin Weitzman, Princeton University Press 2015, ISBN 978-0-691-15947-8 (Financial Times-McKinsey Top 15 Business Book of the Year 2015.
Shah founded SunEdison in 2003, where he pioneered "no money down solar" and unlocked a multi-billion-dollar solar market, creating what was the largest solar services company worldwide.
Honors and awards Throughout his career, Lorenzoni has received accolades for his academic contributions and public service.
Richels has served on a number of national and international advisory panels, including committees of the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the National Research Council.
Both viable and feasible technologies depend on a steady flow of natural resources for their operation.
Nebojsa Nakicenovic has been involved in all Assessment Reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
Position on energy Smil is skeptical that there will be a rapid transition to clean energy, believing it will take much longer than many predict.
In 2018, Nakicenovic was inducted into the International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences.
Newell is often cited as an authority on climate, energy, and environmental policy issues in major media outlets like the Financial Times, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, NPR, and C-SPAN.
Dubner, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2007 Study Guide Accompanying Macroeconomics, with Abel, Bernanke, Smith, and Kneebone,6th Canadian edition, Pearson Canada, 2011.
From 2006 to 2018, he served as the founding director of the Precourt Energy Efficiency Center, which focused on interdisciplinary research into cost-effective approaches to energy efficiency and climate mitigation.
Life and career Pearce was born in Harrow, London and attended Harrow Weald county grammar school, now part of Harrow College.
That model changed the status quo, allowing organizations to purchase solar energy services under long-term predictably priced contracts and avoid the significant capital costs of ownership and operation of solar energy systems.
He was due to act as Review Editor for the chapter on Transport in Working Group III's contribution to the Fifth Assessment Report, released in April 2014.
David William Pearce OBE (11 October 1941 – 8 September 2005) was Emeritus Professor at the Department of Economics at University College London and a pioneer of environmental economics.
His analysis of electricity market design gained prominence following the 2000–2001 California electricity crisis.
He was elected a fellow of the Econometric Society in 1994, a fellow of the British Academy in 1999, and a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2005.
Under Shah, the LPO more than tripled its staff and reviewed more than 100 applications from climate tech companies seeking loans totaling more than $100 billion.
He is known for setting out valuation techniques for natural phenomena, arguing that the environment is "under-priced" and that the benefit of environmental services may be calculated.
Testimony, Analysis, and Commentary Newell has testified on multiple occasions in front of the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, most recently on global climate emissions trends and clean energy advancements.
Tol said in March 2014 that he had withdrawn from the writing team for the Summary for Policy Makers of the report in September 2013, citing disagreement with the profile of the report which he considered too alarmist and putting too little emphasis on opportunities to adapt to climate changes.
Post-City Council career After leaving the city council, Zucchet worked at the Utility Consumers' Action Network (UCAN) as a project manager starting in 2006.
Publications Lorenzoni has authored more than 150 publications, with significant works including: "Principles of Electricity Markets Economics" - 2020 "A new measure of Italian hidden energy poverty" - Energy Policy, 2020 Numerous other peer-reviewed articles on renewable energy and policy analysis.
In January 2023, she announced that she would be leaving the company's leadership in April after 3 years, the reason for which was not specified.
The degree to which the corrected, more pessimistic results alter the original conclusions and their policy implications was hotly debated.
Rifkin joined Prodi at a European Union conference in October 2002 to announce "a coordinated long-term plan for Europe to make the transition from fossil-fuel dependency to become the first "hydrogen economy" superpower of the 21st century".
His papers (many of which are co-authored with Jeremy Bulow) apply ideas from auction theory to other economic contexts, including finance and political economy.
He then obtained a specializing Master's degree in Energy Economics and the Environment from the Scuola Superiore Enrico Mattei, followed by a PhD in Energy Engineering from the University of Padova in 1995.
Smil stresses the need for energy prices to reflect their true costs, including greenhouse gas emissions, and promotes a decrease in the demand for fossil fuels through energy-saving measures.
His geoengineering research focuses on economics, governance, policy, and public perception, including the chemtrails conspiracy theory.
Wagner's latest academic work on this topic, joint with Kent Daniel of Columbia University and Bob Litterman of Kepos Capital further emphasizes the importance of pricing climate risk and uncertainty.
Evaluating the British Model of electricity deregulation, Annals of Public and Cooperative Economics, vol 75, 3, 2004, pp 367–398.
1990s Imprisonment, release on parole, attempts at exoneration, visits to Russia LaRouche began his sentence in 1989, serving it at the Federal Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota.
While there he was a member of the faculty of the School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University, and he wrote Climate Shock (2015), a book emphasizing the importance of risk and uncertainty for prompting action on climate change.
He went on to hold academic posts at the Universities of Lancaster, Southampton, Leicester, and Aberdeen before arriving at University College London as Professor of Political Economy, and later Economics.
Richard "Rich" Gayle Richels directs global climate change research at the Electric Power Research Institute.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Director of Research and Acting Secretary General at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Stephen Thomas is a professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, working in the area of energy policy.
'In the years ahead,' he wrote, 'more sophisticated software technologies are going to bring civilization ever closer to a near-workerless world.
Academic career Lorenzoni began his career as a research fellow at IEFE, Università Commerciale Luigi Bocconi, focusing on energy economics.
Three months later when Americans were killed in the La Belle Discotheque bombing in Berlin, President Reagan responded with an attack on Gaddafi's compound codenamed Operation El Dorado Canyon.
Keynote speaker, 2002 World Congress of Environmental Economists Keynote speaker, 2006 World Congress of Animal Geneticists Works Books Weitzman wrote three books: The Share Economy: Conquering Stagflation; Income, Wealth, and the Maximum Principle; and Climate Shock, jointly with Gernot Wagner.
He was awarded MS and PhD degrees in decision science from Harvard University's Division of Applied Sciences.
Selected works Kerevan is the co-author, with Alan Cochrane, of Scottish Independence: Yes or No, published in April 2014.
The book talks about the prominent role of business model innovation, more than new technology, in attracting mainstream capital and unlocking transformational change.
Newell has been a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and a member of the USAEE, American Economics Association, and Association of Environmental and Resource Economics.
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
Daly argues that this steady-state economy is both necessary and desirable in order to keep human environmental impact within biophysical limits (however defined), and to create more allocational fairness between present and future generations with regard to mineral resource use.
He is a senior member of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that was awarded a share of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore.
The largest interests funding Inslee's campaign were pharmaceutical and health-related companies, lawyers and law firms, and high-tech companies.
Shah argues that, while new technical innovation is valuable, deployment of existing technologies are the key to reaching our near-term climate targets.
In 2013, Nordhaus chaired a committee of the National Research Council that produced a report discounting the impact of fossil fuel subsidies on greenhouse gas emissions.
In addition to his PhD students, he supervised the Master’s theses that were the first research of prominent economists including Professors Eric Budish, Jon Levin and Shengwu Li.
In 2015, Narayan was awarded the Mahatma Gandhi Pravasi Samman Award for non-resident Indians who have made substantial contributions to the profession, including contributions to public policy.
Geoengineering Wagner was the founding co-director, joint with David Keith, of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program founded in 2017 as an interfaculty research initiative.
Pobisk Georgievich Kuznetsov (Russian: Побиск Георгиевич Кузнецов; May 18, 1924, in Krasnoyarsk – December 4, 2000) was a Soviet Russian philosopher and scientist (chemist).
Robert Stephen Pindyck ( PIN-dyke; born January 5, 1945) is an American economist, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Professor of Economics and Finance in the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Shah has also called to end all energy subsidies, including those for renewable energy, to "create a level playing field." He has donated repeatedly to the Climate Hawks Vote Political Action Super PAC since 2016 per FEC records.
And in 2025, a Harvard Business Review article Parker co-authored, “Pipelines, Platforms, and the New Rules of Strategy,” was included in “The Definitive HBR Strategy Glossary.” References External links Official website Platform Revolution Articles available for download at SSRN
Currie then correctly foresaw the biggest decline in the price of gold for three decades in April 2013, two days ahead of the crash.
See also List of Yale University people List of American non-fiction environmental writers List of economic advisors to Donald Trump List of University of Cambridge people Predicting the timing of peak oil References External links Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Daniel Yergin at IMDb
Martin Lawrence Weitzman (April 1, 1942 – August 27, 2019) was an American economist and a professor of economics at Harvard University.
"An empirical multi-country analysis of the impact of environmental regulations on foreign trade flows".
He is a key figure in the academic communities of energy economics, integrated assessment modelling, and climate economics, and has been influential in shaping the international policy debate on climate policy.
Professional engagements Lorenzoni co-founded Galileia S.r.l., a spin-off company from the University of Padova that focused on renewable energy and energy efficiency from 2008 to 2020.
In 2016 he was appointed Member of the Board of Directors of the Beijer Institute of Ecological Economics.
Career Broadman served as a consultant on energy security at the Rand Corporation in 1979 and from 1980 to 1981 he was a research fellow at the Brookings Institution.
While at Harvard he produced two major books: Middle Eastern Capitalism: Nine essays (1959) and The Economy of Cyprus (1962) Myers was chief of mission for the Special U.S.
In 2014, Narayan received the Scopus Young Researcher award for the best three authors in Australia in the Social Science category under the age of forty.
He was also the president of the Institute for Energy Policy, a Moscow-based independent think tank until 2013.
He was a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second, Third and Fourth Assessment Reports (the IPCC shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore) and served on the Synthesis Team for the US National Assessment of Climate Change Impacts on the United States.
Leach says that carbon pricing is not necessarily and unconditionally going to "achieve a better outcome" than with regulation or cap and trade.
Academic research His primary academic research interests include climate change policy, energy policy including oil sands regulation and innovations and policies related to clean energy.
With the passing of both bills (IRA and BIL) from Congress under the Biden Administration, Shah managed $400 billion of loan authority intended to commercialize emerging technologies, support clean energy job creation, and stimulate local economies.
He obtained his PhD from UC Berkeley in management science in 1976 and has been at Stanford since 1977.
It would also inquire with the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences on the boundary between self-plagiarism and "self-citation".
This theoretical program would start in 2033 with two aircraft and 4,000 annual flights, increasing over 15 years to nearly 100 aircraft flying hundreds of flights a week," and would cost annually to operate "roughly $2.25 billion".
The prosecution service stated that it had sufficient indications to identify the anonymous complainant, partly based on suspicions raised by the doctoral candidate and IP addresses from which the complainant had sent various emails.
The Energy Gang Shah was a founding co-host of The Energy Gang, a podcast dedicated to exploring the technological, political, and market forces driving energy and environmental issues.
Jaccard is a professor of sustainable energy in the School of Resource and Environmental Management (REM) at Simon Fraser University.
Study in Australia In 2001, he was awarded a Monash graduate school scholarship to study in Australia for three years.
From 1981 to 1984, he worked at Phillips Petroleum Co., where he was Director for International Affairs.
At the end of the war, he was working as a clerk in the Ordnance Corps, and later described his decision to enlist as the most important decision of his life.
After earning a llicenciatura in economics from the Autonomous University of Barcelona in 2006, she went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for graduate study, and completed a Ph.D.
Hutchinson '68A Professor of Engineering Innovation at Dartmouth College and the Faculty Director of the Arthur L.
Recognition In 2017, Reguant was the recipient of the 16th Banco Sabadell Foundation Award for Economic Research.
Gorbachev also hated my guts and called for my assassination and imprisonment and so forth." He asserted that he had survived these threats, because he had been protected by unnamed U.S.
His doctorate thesis, An Econometric Model of Tourism Demand and a Computable General Equilibrium Analysis of the Impact of Tourism: The Case of Fiji Islands was assessed to be the most outstanding work, earning him the Mollie Hollman Medal in 2004 at Monash University.
References External links Official website SFU Energy and Materials Research Group Canadian Industrial Energy End-Use Data and Analysis Centre Archived 2016-10-08 at the Wayback Machine Video of his presentation at Simon Fraser University: Global Warming – Global Justice: Trade-Off or Win-Win?
He was a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Energy and a member of the International Association for Energy Economics.
This was in connection with an alleged scheme also involving fellow City Council members Ralph Inzunza and Charles L.
Hal Varian, a former Chief Economist at Google, called Platform Revolution "an authoritative guide to the role of online platforms." Early life and education Geoffrey Parker was born in Dayton, Ohio.
In 2007-12 he served as convening lead author for energy policy in the production of the Global Energy Assessment.
Richels is a co-author of Buying Greenhouse Insurance - the Economic Costs of CO2 Emission Limits (with Alan S.
Thomas serves on the editorial boards of several periodicals including Energy Policy, Utilities Policy, Energy & Environment, and International Journal of Regulation and Governance.
Many interpretations of degrowth do not offer effective strategies for reducing environmental impact or transitioning to a sustainable economy.
Ein Reiseführer für überzeugte Daheimbleiber, Wien, Ueberreuter-Verlag 2003, ISBN 3-8000-3957-5 2011: But Will The Planet Notice?.
Broadman joined former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright’s consultancy, The Albright Group, as managing director in 2008 at the same time former German Vice Chancellor Joschka Fischer joined the firm.
"Best bids guaranteed, Observing microeconomic theory can avoid collusion at government auctions" (PDF).
Career 2012 to Present: Founder of Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates, based in Tucson, Arizona, where he leads a team of consultants.
He formerly worked for San Diego State University, where he is now an associate professor, emeritus.
In March 2007, Currie authored a Goldman Sachs report title Food, Feed and Fuel, which argued the demand pull from food, feed and fuel represented the beginning of a structural increase in prices.
Shah maintains that climate wealth is created when mainstream investors team up with entrepreneurs, corporations, mainstream capital, and governments at scale to solve the big problems of our time while generating compelling financial – not concessionary – returns.
Polenske has been an advisor to international agencies, including the United Nations Development Programme, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the World Bank, as well as an economic consultant to the U.S.
He has published books and articles in the fields of global environmental protection and energy economics, the theory of the firm, and economic history.
Manne), and of Economic and environmental choices in the stabilization of atmospheric CO2 concentrations (with Tom Wigley and Jae Edmonds).
His books examine economic, environmental and geopolitical pressures on the transformation of the global energy sector.
In 2021, Dunn had the highest salary of any university employee other than the president, Sabah Randhawa.
Milov was mentioned as one of the co-authors of Navalny's platform that was published on December 13, 2017.
Saddler was the author of a book on Australian energy policy, Energy in Australia, and over 50 scientific papers, monographs and articles on energy technology and environmental policy, and is recognised as one of Australia's leading experts in this field.
His research is focused on climate change, energy security, corporate strategy analysis, and energy policy in Japan.
These properties inform the strategies and antitrust law approaches at all firms involved in the network.
In 2011, he was appointed Senior Managing Director at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to establish and lead PwC's Emerging Markets Business Growth Strategy Management Consulting Practice and serve as PwC's Chief Economist.
Calgary Energy Centre Leach reviews articles posted on line by the "pro-energy corporation", the Calgary-based Canadian Energy Centre, which is funded by the government of Alberta.
He was also awarded the Order of the Patriotic War in 1985, the Medal "For Distinguished Labour" in 1969.
Albert Julius Meyer (14 May 1919 – 31 October 1983) was an American economist who taught at Harvard University for 28 years.
He was the Scottish National Party Member of Parliament (MP) for East Lothian from 2015, until he lost his seat to Martin Whitfield of the Labour Party at the 2017 general election.
At Western Washington University, he served as dean of the College of Business and Economics from 2013 to 2016 before gaining his professorship.
Parker's current research explores platform business strategies, data sharing and governance, the role of data and artificial intelligence (AI) in improving industrial energy efficiency, enabling market formation for the decarbonization of energy systems, and advancing healthcare systems.
Irving Institute for Energy & Society at Dartmouth, where he reports to the provost and is responsible for all Institute activities.
See also Andy Stirling David Elliott Energy Fair Gordon Walker World Nuclear Industry Status Report == References ==
With other administrators and mayors of Regione del Veneto Lorenzoni is working to a civic network named Vale.
His father returned from military service in World War II and, considering himself unable to care for his son, placed him in an orphanage.
In the book, Shah envisioned reaching 2020 climate change goals as means to create the next economy with the equivalent of 100,000 companies worldwide, each generating $100 million in sales.
Arturo Lorenzoni (born September 19, 1966) is an Italian academic, researcher, and politician, known for his significant contributions to energy economics, particularly in electricity markets and renewable energy.
Consumer Engagement Programs as a Smart Energy Efficiency Strategy for Our Nation’s Electric Utilities, by John A.
clean energy technologies, spearheading the Biden Administration's efforts to commercialize clean energy in the United States.
As Roman agricultural output slowly declined and population increased, per-capita energy availability dropped.
He has written chapters in books like South Asia in the Era of Globalisation: Trade, Industrialisation and Welfare; Economic Impact of Fiji's Sugar Industry, CGE Modelling and Behaviour of J-Curve.
Additionally, degrowth is unlikely to gain significant social or political support, making it an ineffective strategy for achieving environmental sustainability.
He is currently a Senior Visiting Research Fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies (OIES) and a founding board member of the Kearney Energy Transition Institute in the Netherlands.
He was assistant secretary general to the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries in Kuwait from 1976 to 1978.
He is the Director of the Centre for Economics & Financial Econometrics Research at Deakin University.
His analysis on this subject has featured prominently in the Financial Times, which described it as "thought provoking": [Newell] argued that "there has never been an energy transition" because, as each new technology has emerged, it has merely added to older sources, rather than replacing them.
Pindyck's teaching and research focuses on market structure, financial economics, environmental, resource, and energy economics, the role of uncertainty on investment decisions and policy formulation, and economic policy generally.
The case for retaining Seafield: a special report on Seafield Colliery and the reasons why Seafield coal is vital to Scotland's energy future.
Some of LaRouche's views on AIDS were developed by John Seale, a British venereological physician who proposed that AIDS was created in a Soviet laboratory.
Tenure As a member of the centrist New Democrat Coalition, Inslee vocally supported policies combating climate change.
William Martin served for ten years (from 2000 to 2010) as Chairman of the Nuclear Energy Advisory Committee during the administrations of George W.
"Skip" Laitner, and Steven Nadel, ACEEE White Paper, Washington, DC: American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy.
At the send-off event at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport with Consul General of Ukraine Dmytro Kushneruk and leaders of local Ukrainian communities, Inslee highlighted Washington's commitment to aiding Ukraine and welcomed Ukrainian refugees to the state.
Shah previously worked in strategy for BP Solar and as a contractor for the Department of Energy on alternative vehicles and fuel cell programs.
Such complexity requires a substantial "energy" subsidy, meaning the consumption of resources, or other forms of wealth.
Siri Nippita, a gynecologist at NYU Langone Medical Center and the chief of the family planning division as well as the director of Reproductive Choice at Bellevue Hospital.
His testimony included two appearances before the Energy and Commerce Committee, Subcommittee on Energy and Environment.
(A copy of this may be found in the References section of the Economics of global warming entry.) Economic Models of Climate Change: A Critique.
Publications In addition to numerous journal articles, DeCanio has written the following books: Agriculture in the Postbellum South: The Economics of Production and Supply.
Published works The Investor Visit and Other Stories: Disruption, Denial and Transition in the Energy Business (2020).
Despite the district's conservative lean, Inslee won the general election in an extremely close race.
and abroad, covering a range of energy topics, and is a commentator on CNBC and CNN, as well as the Financial Times and The New York Times.
He has played a significant role in various EU policy projects and has taught extensively on topics related to sustainable development and energy policy across various international platforms.
Inslee was once touted as a candidate for United States Secretary of the Interior and for United States Secretary of Energy during the Presidential transition of Barack Obama.
See also Societal collapse Collapsology State collapse Wicked problem References Further reading Kohr, Leopold: The Breakdown of Nations, 1957.
Saddler was a member of the Experts Group on Emissions Trading, appointed by the Australian Greenhouse Office, of the ABS Environmental Statistics Advisory Group, and of the ACT Environment Advisory Committee.
Currie jolted global commodity markets in April 2011 by closing a China themed trading recommendation to be long a basket of crude oil, copper, cotton and platinum (CCCP).
Instead of a peak, Yergin predicted that future oil production would plateau as increasing prices moderate demand and stimulate production.
According to his ICREA profile page as of March 2015, his research is on "the intersection of economics, environmental science and innovation studies.
The CNN article article was subsequently shared by Questlove and others; Wagner recounted the episode in a conversation with Holly Buck.
Climate Change From 1995 to 2001, he was a senior scientist at the International Energy Agency in Paris.
Career Civil service (2000–2002) On 14 March 2000, Vladimir Milov was promoted to the civilian service rank of 2nd class State Councillor of the Russian Federation.
In recent presentations, Parker has spoken before groups that include the India Institute of Science, New York Climate Week, and the Hannover Messe Industrial Conference.
Early life and education Smil was born during World War II in Plzeň, at that time in the German Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (present-day Czech Republic).
During the Carter administration, from 1977 to 1979, Nordhaus was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers.
He went on to stand unsuccessfully as the SNP candidate for Edinburgh East at the 2010 general election, as well as an SNP candidate in the Lothian region in the 2011 Scottish Parliament election.
View on Fijian Economy Narayan blamed the ousted Qarase government and its failure to implement macroeconomic management and stability for the post coup economic decline in Fiji.
His research considers the degree to which US companies avoid pollution regulations by importing dirty products; an explanation of why pollution is worse for middle-income countries; and how to use self-reported happiness measures to put a dollar value on air quality.
Polenske, Hongtao Liu, YouminXi, Ju’eGuo, "Comprehensive evaluation of effects of straw-based electricity generation: A Chinese case", ElsevierLtd., 2010-10-01 Karen R.
Lyndon LaRouche said that Kuznetsov was one of the first to understand the principles of physical economics.
Nijkamp himself stated that the investigation committee's methodology and selection of publications is too thin a base for any conclusions.
In this latter role, he oversees the Institute's academic and research appointments, the research program, and academic offerings that include the Master of Energy Transition (MET).
The case for retaining a European coal industry: a critical response to the EEC Coal Directorate's close-and-import plan as laid out in COM (85)251 and COM (85)525.
These mistakes have since generated some controversy, involving both physicists and ecological economists.
Among his seminal papers was "Entrepreneurship the missing link in the Arab states?" In 1955, he started teaching at Harvard.
He serves on numerous international boards and advisory councils, including the International Advisory Council of the American University of Beirut (AUB), the International Advisory Council of Ambrosetti – The European House, and the joint Board of Georgetown University Qatar (GU-Q).
References External links Official website for Peter Tertzakian's Energyphile Campbell, Colin (June 2009).
For his pioneering contributions to energy research, he was honored by the International Association for Energy Economics.
He is also a standing member of the National Academy of Sciences' Committee on the Human Dimensions of Global Change.
Test bank for Macroeconomics, with Abel, Bernanke, Smith, and Kneebone, 6th Canadian edition, Pearson Canada, 2011 References External links "Saeed Moshiri".
Yohe is also a member of the New York City Panel on Climate Change and the standing Committee on the Human Dimensions of Global Change of the National Academy of Sciences.
He was director of the Energy Modeling Forum from 1978 to 1984, chair of the Stanford Institute for Energy Studies from 1981 to 1985, and director of the Center for Economic Policy Research, now the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research from 1984 to 1986.
In 2009, Tol published a controversial paper that combined data from several earlier studies, concluding that at least some amount of global warming could lead to economic gains.
He is professor emeritus of Management Science and Engineering at Stanford University and a senior fellow of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) and the Precourt Institute for Energy.
He was also a member of the United Nations Environment Programme Economic Options Panel, which reviewed the economic aspects of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
He has served as Editor of the Energy, Environment and National Resources area of the Operations Research Journal.
His 2003 paper, "Discounting the Distant Future: How Much Do Uncertain Rates Increase Valuations?" was awarded the 2006 Petry Prize for the Economics of Climate Change, and later informed estimation methods for the social cost of carbon.
The End of Energy Obesity: Breaking Today's Energy Addiction for a Prosperous and Secure Tomorrow (2009).
She was a 2019 recipient of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers, and a recipient of the 2023 Catalan National Research Prize for Young Talent.
Early life Born in Reno, Nevada, Currie attended Sprague High School in Salem, Oregon, before attending Pepperdine University, in Malibu, California, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts Economics in December 1987.
Gary Wynn Yohe is the Huffington Foundation Professor of Economics and Environmental Studies at Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut.
He has also served on the Board of Editors of The Energy Journal and the Journal of Applied Stochastic Models and Data Analysis, and contributed to the Energy Modeling Forum.
He contributed to the Second and Third Assessment Reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.
He obtained a master's degree in Electrical Engineering (Technology and Policy Program) in 1993 and a doctorate in Management Science in 1998, both at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Biography Born in 1929 in Baghdad to Jafar Mohamad al-Chalabi and Fatima née al -Uzri, Chalabi studied law at Baghdad University and graduated in 1951 before gaining a PhD in economics from the University of Paris.
Biography Born in Dalfsen, Overijssel, Nijkamp received his MSc in Econometrics and Regional Economics in 1970, and his PhD in Regional Economics in 1972, both from the Erasmus University, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
Beyond IEA Birol is part of the Africa Europe Foundation's (AEF) High-Level Group of Personalities on Africa-Europe Relations (since 2020) Honours and medals References External links Fatih Birol's biography International Energy Agency World Energy Outlook
Memberships and directorships Yergin is the current vice chairman of S&P Global, appointed during the company's merger with IHS Markit.
In 1975 he was one of the hostages taken by Carlos the Jackal at the OPEC-Conference in Vienna ( see OPEC siege).
Weyant is the director of the Energy Modeling Forum, an editor of Energy Economics, and a lead author of the IPCC (the work of the IPCC, including the contributions of many scientists, was recognised by the joint award of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize).
Political career From 2017 to 2020, Lorenzoni served as the deputy mayor of Padova, overseeing urban planning, mobility, private building initiatives, information technology systems, the digital agenda, and university relations.
Diminishing returns Tainter begins by categorizing the often inconsistent explanations that have been offered for collapse in the literature.
External links [University profile] (https://www.dii.unipd.it/category/ruoli/personale-docente?key=7FFB9E0A01C994885DFF99E6CAB2B632) [Personal website] (https://www.arturolorenzoni.it/chi-sono/) == References ==
His work has shown how traditional cost-benefit analysis fails when applied to policies to avert potential catastrophes, and how the value of lost lives can be taken into account in analyses of catastrophic events.
This was the third time during Inslee's tenure the state's budget was passed in the last week of the legislative session.
He then completed the General Electric Company Financial Management Training Program and held multiple positions in engineering and finance at General Electric in North Carolina and Wisconsin.
His 2004 book, The European Dream, was an international bestseller and winner of the 2005 Corine International Book Prize in Germany for the best economics book of the year.
Yohe also worked with the Core Writing Team to prepare the overall Synthesis Report for the entire Assessment.
While at Harvard he co-authored an article arguing for placing a $10.00 tariff on imported oil to curb U.S.
Pearce was the chief environmental adviser to government ministers Christopher Patten and Michael Heseltine, and a convening lead author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
Earlier in his career, he held senior leadership positions at UNESCO and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
Politics In January 2026, Brochu was named as a potential candidate in the 2026 Quebec Liberal Party leadership election.
In addition, Parker is a Research Fellow and Visiting Scholar at the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy, where he leads platform industry research studies and co-chairs the annual MIT Platform Strategy Summit.
IEA leadership While at the International Energy Agency, Birol has overseen several major changes in the approach of the organization.
5 Behn, Wolfgang (2006) "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" Concise Biographical Companion to Index Islamicus Vol.
His paper on supply function equilibria (with Margaret Meyer) developed a standard model for the analysis of privatised electricity markets, and has been important in developing the theory of multiunit auctions.
From September 2005 to August 2006, the institute was one of the ten most mentioned economic expert centers in the country and the first on energy issues.
The paper also describes what the authors call a "community of conspiracy" in online discourse, in particular on Twitter and other anonymous social media.
Early life Morse was born in New York City and graduated from Johns Hopkins University (B.A., 1963; M.A., 1966).
Media engagement with his work Levinson's research has been noted in the media, for example by economist Andrew Oswald at the University of Warwick, writing to the Financial Times about how much "green" variables affect well-being.
Although some governors have run for a fourth term, none has been elected to a fourth term in the state's history.
Martin was an early recipient of the highest award of the Department of Energy: the Secretary’s Gold Metal.
Saeed Moshiri (born 1957) is an Iranian economist and Professor of Economics at the University of Saskatchewan.
He is an advisor to Econtech, one of Australia's leading economic consultancy firms, and two years ago he won the prestigious Excellence in Research Award, which he received from the Emerald Institute, a leading publishing institute in United Kingdom.
Tol specialises in energy economics and environmental economics, with a particular interest in climate change, such as the economics of global warming.
Conflict over resource allocation between rural areas and urban areas was a major reason for the impasse.
A founding co-director of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program (2017–2019) he joined the faculty of New York University in 2019, moving to Columbia University in 2022.
One of the most important, incorporating political and moral philosophy, is the use of discounting, with an early study by William Cline.
He has honorary doctorates from the Vrije Universiteit Brussel and the National Technical University of Athens.
In 2022 Parker and two co-authors received an Antitrust Writing Award for their paper on platform mergers and antitrust.
Parker is co-author of the book Platform Revolution, which was included among the 16 must-read business books for 2016 by Forbes and has since been published in 10 languages.
Dunn also serves on the faculty of the Institute for Energy Studies, on the Graduate Faculty Governance Council, and on the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Advocacy Council.
One of Martin's ancestors was John Chisum, the Texas cattleman portrayed by John Wayne in the movie Chisum.
In 2013, Nordhaus became president-elect of the AEA, and served as the association's president between 2014 and 2015.
References External links Arik Levinson publications indexed by Google Scholar Arik Levinson home page.
The climate club introduces carbon pricing among the club's member states and levies a fee on all imports of goods from countries that are outside the club and have not introduced similar carbon pricing.
He would reprise the role as band leader with an ad hoc jazz group, Lee Schipper and the Mitigators, who performed primarily in conjunction with energy-related conferences.
Utilities Commission (1992 to 1997), on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (1993–96, 2008–09), and on the China Council for International Cooperation on Environment and Development (1996–2001, 2008–09).
As noted by co-host Stephen Lacey, the new ruling is pulled directly from the Jigar Shah Playbook, which suggests you must have competitive options such as volumetric reductions and feed-in tariffs, and the way these were designed seven to eight years ago do not work.
He currently serves on the Scientific Steering Committee for the US Carbon Cycle Program and the Advisory Committee for Princeton University Carbon Mitigation Initiative.
1MDB controversy In 2009 Morse provided a valuation for the Malaysian state fund 1MDB for petroleum exploration and production assets associated with PetroSaudi International Ltd.
Georgescu-Roegen realised that production cannot be adequately described by stocks of equipment and inventories only, or by flows of inputs and outputs only.
[German: "City Country Climate"] 2021: Geoengineering: The Gamble, Wiley 2021, ISBN 1509543058 2024: Climate Race, Leykam; a bilingual English-German collection of a dozen monthly columns for Project Syndicate, ISBN 978-3-7011-0528-1 Personal life Wagner has been married since 2002 to Dr.
He is one of the four co-signers of an open letter, dated March 12, 2010, regarding possible errors in the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report and regularly advises the US government.
He was Member of the Steering Committee of the Austrian Assessment Report On Climate Change 2014, which was published in September 2014.
He represented the US Trade Representative on the board of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) and on the inter-agency Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS).
[...] But there is good reason to question the fairness of Rifkin's angriest assaults on scientists as mad magicians and unethical disciples of Dr.
C2ES partners with business leaders — through their Business Environmental Leadership Council — to develop solutions that will accelerate a low-carbon transition, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and grow an equitable economy.
After the passing of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and Inflation Reduction Act through Congress in 2021 and 2022, the funds to the Loan Programs Office increased tenfold from $40 billion to $400 billion in order to commercialize emerging clean energy technologies.
Securing Nebraska’s Energy and Economic Future: Creating Jobs, New Economic Opportunities and Health Benefits through Productive Investments in Wind Energy and Energy Efficiency, by John A.
Parker is also a frequent keynote speaker, and he advises senior leaders on their organizations’ platform strategies.
His research interests include the economics and policy of electric markets, renewable energy investments, and energy efficiency.
Jeremy Rifkin's office - The People's Business Commission - provided an amicus curiae brief in support of the US Patent and Trademark Office, arguing that extending patents to genetically-engineered organisms was not covered by US patent law.
Books Economics of Money and Banking, with Hamid Bahmanpoor, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2010 Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything (tr.), Steven Levitt, Stephen J.
Work Parker has made significant contributions to the field of network economics and strategy as co-developer of the theory of two-sided markets and the theory of the inverted firm with Marshall Van Alstyne.
In December 2001, Milov was appointed adviser to the Minister of Energy of the Russian Federation and in May 2002, he was appointed Deputy Minister of Energy of Russia in Kasyanov's government.
Jaccard, 2011, "Modeling efficiency standards and a carbon tax: Simulations for the US using a hybrid approach," The Energy Journal.
Translated into several languages, including German, which has been awarded Austria's Natural Science Book of the Year 2017.) 2021: Stadt, Land, Klima: Warum wir nur mit einem urbanen Leben die Erde retten, Brandstätter 2021, ISBN 978-3-7106-0508-6.
His published research includes a 2001 study in the Journal of Public Economics showing how the environmental Kuznets curve can be explained by a one-person, two-good model without market failures.
Leontief, she directed one of the most extensive multiregional input-output research studies of the U.S.
References External links Life of Pobisk Kuznetsov, by Jonathan Tennenbuam (2001) Was the “Special Period” a Cuban Invention?
In 1987 he became Executive Director of the Centre for Global Energy Studies, a London-based think-tank founded and chaired by Ahmed Zaki Yamani.
Richels is a researcher on integrated assessment modelling for climate change, and regularly appears in the media.
Again published by Carlyle, Currie argued that the shifting security landscape is driving economies to prioritise defense investment, and projected that incremental direct investment across Europe in defense and adjacent infrastructure could reach €9 trillion over the next decade.
Biography He is Former Deputy Director General/ Deputy CEO of the International Institute for Applied System Analysis (IIASA) in Laxenburg, Austria and former Full Professor of Energy Economics at the Vienna University of Technology, Austria.
ISBN 0-86861-306-1 See also Renewable energy commercialization in Australia References External links A clean energy future for Australia Australian Financial Review article Australia's energy choices Canberra Times article Clean energy future
A 98-year-old farmer accused Weitzman of multiple manure thefts from the farm, while Weitzman argued he had permission from the farmer's son to take the manure.
Career Leach is Professor of Economics and Law at the University of Alberta where he teaches courses in environmental and energy economics, environmental law and utilities law.
If adherence to Jewish law were a requirement for salvation, then salvation would be denied to Gentiles without a conversion to Judaism.
Charles Smith merged the American Association for the Advancement of Atheism with the Truth Seeker Organization in the late 1930s.
In John 6:67–71 Jesus asks the Twelve Apostles if they also want to leave, but Peter responds that they have become believers.
External links Robert Elsie's introduction to Faik Konitza (pdf) "Faïk Konitza – Selected Correspondence 1896–1942" "Albanian Articles of Faik Konitza at shqiperia.com" Luan Starova: "Faik Konitza and Guillaume Apollinaire" "Sister Act".
Returning from exile in Paris and Alexandria after Atatürk's death, in 1942 he published the journal Tanrıdağı, which supported Turanism and pan-Turkism.
Safia Lebdi supports many creations from the suburbs, including Houda Benyamina, who won the Caméra d'or at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2016 for her first feature film Divines, or the recycling of cultural sets with Arstock and La Réserve des arts.
The German and Swiss dancing bans prohibit public parties, but not dancing in one's private residence.
Kleps testified that the absurdist elements of the Church were intended to show that all religions are invented and silly.
All foreign Roman Catholic clergy were expelled in 1946, and Albania officially tried to eradicate religion.
The Begatting of the President is a satirical album narrated by Orson Welles, summarising the presidency of Lyndon B.
The Calas affair was an event that shaped Voltaire during the creation of the Philosophical Dictionary.
Alan Jamieson, in his book A Churchless Faith, describes faith deconstruction as follows: The deconstruction of their previously received faith leads people engaged in this process to successively examine the individual components of their faith.
He disputes the notion that religion improves morality, pointing to the abolitionist movement as an example of secular virtue (ch.
The college, the foundation says, "does not offer traditional college courses, such as math or English".
References External links Jay Bentley on X 2008 Interview with Jay Bentley Interview with Jay Bentley 2007 Room Thirteen interview May 2010
like a toilet, with nine holes pouring all sorts of filth." Isaline Blew Horner and Diana Mary Paul are worried about the discrimination against almswomen and laywomen in Indian Buddhism.
Bowers is portrayed by voice actress and comedian Deven Green, appearing both in photographs and numerous satirical videos.
After graduating from the Military Medical School in 1901 Rıza Nur went on to work as a surgeon at Gülhane Military Hospital before returning to the Military Medical School as an academic in 1907.
A religion connected with the state was essential to making people realize that "they are to account for their conduct [...] to the one great Master, Author and Founder of society".
He describes the Old Testament as violent and inconsistent, with laws that contradict its own commandments (ch.
Oberdan was present in Trieste at the time of this incident, as witnessed by the landlord of the hotel Alla città di Vienna, where he sojourned, as well as her daughter, a pedlar who saw him pass by and, with less certainty, a porter of the hotel.
The song caught the attention of Rubyworks Records, where producer Rob Kirwan collaborated with Hozier on the final recording.
The term takes its name from Jacques Derrida's philosophical concept of deconstruction, although it has only a loose relationship to that concept.
Enlightened rulers such as Frederick II of Prussia and Catherine II of Russia both have been recorded as supporters of the book.
As the term "alt-right" was devised by a group of white nationalists themselves, as a form of self-description, some journalists avoided it.
Arguments "God" can be proved not to mean anything that exists because the alleged definition of God is circular and meaningless.
Thus, when Periyar married Maniammai on 9 July 1948, they quit the Dravidar Kazhagam, stating that Periyar married Maniammayar who was the daughter of Kanagasabhai when he was 70 and she 32.
In doing so, he could take advantage of the high esteem granted Ezra in Judaism." Philosophical criticism Philosophical criticism of Judaism is either part of religious criticism in general or specifically focused on aspects unique to the Jewish religion.
"Prayer in C" is a song by the French folk-pop duo Lilly Wood and the Prick that was originally released on their album Invincible Friends in 2010.
References External links Official website I, Pastafari: A Flying Spaghetti Monster Story at Internet Movie Database I, Pastafari: A Flying Spaghetti Monster Story at Rotten Tomatoes
Yet another suggestion is that Socrates endorsed views in line with liberalism, a political ideology formed in the Age of Enlightenment.
Along with vocalist Greg Graffin, Bentley has appeared on nearly all of Bad Religion's studio albums, with the sole exception being their second album Into the Unknown (1983).
He therefore held that atheism was the philosophical foundation stone of his ideology, but in itself was insufficient.
A formal declaration that the "seven nations" are no longer identifiable was made by Joshua ben Hananiah, around the year 100 CE, making laws of exterminating war a dead letter.
"A Token of My Extreme", by Frank Zappa, is a song on the 1979 concept album Joe's Garage Acts II & III.
At the meeting which the Managing Committee of the Dravidar Kazhagam held, there on that day, it was decided to support the candidates belonging to the Janata Party, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), and the Marxist Party during the General Elections.
Large numbers of people from the so-called hostile class, which included intellectuals, land owners, and former supporters of Japan's occupying government during World War II, were forcibly relocated to the country's isolated and impoverished northern provinces.
Biography Early life and education Krylenko was born in Bekhteyevo, in Sychyovsky Uyezd of Smolensk Governorate, the eldest of six children (two sons and four daughters) born to a populist revolutionary and his wife.
Krylenko left Petrograd for the High Command HQ in Mogilev on 2 July, but was arrested there by the Provisional government after the Bolsheviks staged an abortive uprising on 4 July.
Tension between the conduct of the Israeli government and Jewish traditions and halakha on the conduct of war have caused controversy within Israel and have provided a basis for criticisms of Israel.
See also Bulssi Japbyeon Index of Buddhism-related articles Secular Buddhism Post-canonical Buddhist texts Decline of the Dharma Buddhist eschatology Notes References Further reading Tenzin, Kencho (2006).
The song's aim is to reduce to absurdity calls to ban books and films following well-publicised acts of violence.
Sources of criticism Historically, certain notable Catholic works were written as a criticism of a Protestant work.
When he discusses the salvation of Israel and bringing them out of captivity, he is saying that the Lord will bring the ones who call on his name and are his believers to safety, away from the dominion of sin on the earth.
Exhibitions, poetry, and performance art Gibson has contributed text to be integrated into a number of performance art pieces.
She repeatedly demonstrates a lack of awareness or consideration for others, often blatantly violating social norms in service of her desires, or sometimes simply for lack of care.
"Preface" (Open Access), by Dag Herbjørnsrud, in: The Hatata Inquiries: Two Texts of Seventeenth-Century African Philosophy from Ethiopia about Reason, the Creator, and Our Ethical Responsibilities (2023).
Orson Welles was selected as the deadpan narrator due to his already being an established narrator, including on Biblical epics such as King of Kings (1961).
Millbrook also includes philosophical interpretations of psychedelic experience and synchronicity and social and political commentary on aspects of the psychedelic movement.
Legacy Spanish director Jesús Franco has made two films based on Philosophy in the Bedroom: Eugenie… The Story of Her Journey into Perversion (1970) and Eugenie (Historia de una perversión) (1980).
The same day, the track listing, cover art and release date of parent album One Assassination Under God – Chapter 1 was revealed.
She was one of the few spouses of a ruling communist party leader with a high political profile of her own.
At her next meeting, she is given a plea deal by the School Board, where she will retain her job by apologizing for sharing these scriptures in class.
According to Hawley, it was the alt-right's use of trolling which put it "into the national conversation".
Unlike antitheism, antireligion is also against those religions that do not have deities, such as some sects of Buddhism and Jainism.
Similarly, historian David Atkinson stated that the alt-right was "a racist movement steeped in white supremacist ideas".
He predicted that practicing Rand's godless ideology would lead to a dictatorship similar to Nazism or Stalinist communism, and said that throughout the novel "a voice can be heard ...
Marjoe is a 1972 American documentary film directed and produced by Howard Smith and Sarah Kernochan about Pentecostal preacher Marjoe Gortner, who was ordained as a preacher at only age four and became an evangelist sensation in the 1940s.
Graveney confesses to Edmund that he fears damnation for his many sins, which include killing his father so he could have an affair with his own mother over one thousand times.
The lyrics and song material were inspired by Hetfield's anguish on the circumstances surrounding his mother's death.
The worshippers of the one jealous God are egged on to aggressive wars against people of alien [beliefs and cultures].
In 1999, under Aglialoro's sponsorship, Ruddy negotiated a deal with Turner Network Television (TNT) for a four-hour miniseries; however, the project was killed after TNT merged with AOL Time Warner.
Thornton as the chaplain of the football team have been or are in the process of being removed and no future references will be made in writing or otherwise." Mehta continues: "None of that means students can't seek Thornton out on their own.
Antireligious campaigns in China are policies and practices of successive Chinese polities since the late 19th century to discourage both folk and organized religion.
In April 2015, Atheist Ireland issued an official announcement, apologizing that they had given Myers public platforms to speak and that now it is "publicly dissociating itself from the hurtful and dehumanising, hateful and violent, unjust and defamatory rhetoric of the atheist blogger PZ Myers...
The organization was founded partly as an absurdist religion, partly as a religious expression of the psychedelic movement, and partly as a device to gain religious exemption from American drug laws such as those outlawing LSD.
130), produces motion, so the intricate organic complex of force-bearing substance in an animal organism produces a total sum of certain effects, which, when bound together in a unity, are called by us mind, soul, thought.
Tyler Bates – composition, guitars, bass, keyboards, recording and production Will Borza – mastering Robert Carranza – recording and mixing Marilyn Manson – composition, vocals and production Gil Sharone – drums Howie Weinberg – mastering Charts == References ==
At Anime Expo 2008, Haruhi was awarded the Society for the Promotion of Japanese Animation (SPJA) award for Best Female Character.
Controversy The song was banned from radio and TV airplay and Raspoet was often forbidden to perform it on stage.
Just before the execution, he cried "Viva l'Italia!" (Long live Italy!), which helped establish his later reputation as a martyr of the Italian national cause.
The case for it being a political persecution is usually challenged by the existence of an amnesty that was granted to Athenian citizens in 403 BC to prevent escalation to civil war after the fall of the Thirty.
Also hosted is Jim Foley's Fossil Hominids sub-site which studies the evidence for human evolution and has an extensive list of links to websites on both evolutionary biology and creationism.
He was a staunch critic of Anatoli Lunacharsky, who proposed the concept of God-Building, which held that because religion "cultivated in the masses emotion, moral values, [and] desire", revolutionaries should take advantage of that fact.
The Archive is also referenced in college-level textbooks and has had material from the archive incorporated into over 20 college or university courses.
The Blasphemy Challenge The Blasphemy Challenge, started in December 2006, is an Internet-based project which aims to get atheists to come out and declare themselves as atheists.
Debate with The Way of the Master Brian Sapient and Kelly O'Connor, members of the RRS, participated in a debate with representatives from The Way of the Master, actor and evangelical Christian Kirk Cameron, and his colleague Ray Comfort, at Calvary Baptist Church in Manhattan on May 5, 2007.
Sean Beavan, who mixed and co-produced Antichrist Superstar, is credited with "descending horn guitar" on the track.
Early criticism of Judaism and its texts, laws, and practices originated in inter-faith polemics between Christianity and Judaism.
The main character from this triple-album rock-opera has his mind messed-up by Lucille then "finally does something smart" and "pays a lot of money to L.
For example, when the Lutherans gave the 1530 Augsburg Confession, the Catholics responded with the Confutatio Augustana.
Following Trump's election, he described the series as "suddenly" telling a "story about the intersection of celebrity and authoritarianism and how social media and entertainment are used to sell fascism".
This tension between Christian Science as a potentially effective healing system (though not for all ailments) and Christian Science as apocalyptic threat is challenging to reconcile.
In the aftermath of the album's release, in 1971 Welles found himself on the receiving end of a tax audit from the Nixon administration, which forced him to put several projects on hold (most notably his The Other Side of the Wind), in favour of more lucrative work to pay off his tax debt.
At the same time, his work espouses deism (though he calls it theism, contrary to its modern meaning), tolerance and freedom of the press.
Finland banned dancing in December 1939 following the outbreak of Winter War, with the ban lasting until the signing of the Moscow Armistice in 1944 that ended Finnish participation in World War II.
According to reports, Falun Gong practitioners have been subjected to medical testing and had their organs forcibly removed since 1999.
(Why an independent Tamil Nadu?), he criticised the Central Government of India, inducing thousands of Tamilians to burn the constitution of India.
A "strike hard" campaign against new religious movements proceeded from 1983 to 1986 (and later in some places).
Advocating feminism and secularism, and a member of Europe Écologie Les Verts, in 2007 she created the Insoumis-es movement, of which she is president.
Letter VIII on "the law of God" expressed by each gender's physical construction: (women) There shall be no limit put upon your intercourse with the other sex sexually, at any time of life....
Regarding the death of Jesus The idea that Judaism, and the Jewish people collectively, are responsible for the death of Jesus, often represented in the claim that "Jews killed Jesus", figures prominently in antisemitic writings.
Haruhi attracted the most attention by drawing a huge graffiti mural on the field at school of the night of Tanabata, which was reported in the newspaper.
Following the release of the season four finale, Urban revealed that the fifth and final season won't be released until 2026.
It is described as operating under a dictatorial structure whereby its "Pastor" holds all authority over the church, its members, and its extensive holdings.
One day in her history class, the lesson centers around the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi and Reverend Martin Luther King Jr.
Konica assured Ippen that he and his friends believed that Albania should be in political and military union with Austria.
The American Association for the Advancement of Atheism (AAAA – 4A) was an atheistic and antireligious organization established in 1925.
Joe is informed that the best appliances speak foreign languages, which leads to the next song, "Stick It Out".
Gale concluded that A Case of Conscience was "a provocative, serious, commendable work" and characterized it as "trailblaz[ing]".
The accompanying music video premiered in September 2013, directed by Brendan Canty, Emmet O'Brien and Conal Thomson.
It was founded by Charles Lee Smith, and the organization's "only creedal requirement was a formal profession of atheism".
In 2014, the German DJ and record producer Robin Schulz remixed the song, and the remix was re-released in June 2014.
Critical reception Positive critique Michael Kinsley, in The New York Times Book Review, lauded Hitchens's "logical flourishes and conundrums, many of them entertaining to the nonbeliever".
The printers involved were fined £3,000 (a large sum of money at the time) for the mistake and all copies of the misprinted bible were ordered destroyed.
Feeling that Turkey was too reliant on Germany but accepting that the country needed a close relationship with a bigger power to prosper he toyed with the idea of a United States mandate in Turkey in the immediate aftermath of World War I.
Kim also formed an air force, equipped at first with Soviet-built, propeller-driven fighters and attack aircraft.
Immediately following this healing, he turns to the local country horse doctor to cure a headache and stomach ache.
It has been said by many Kiss insiders that the amplifier feedback at the beginning of the album version of "Unholy" is from Vinnie Vincent.
They claimed that they could prove the existence of God scientifically without using the Bible, though Comfort does refer to the Bible when he participates in such discussions, and did so during the May 5 debate.
Biography Safia Lebdi has been involved with women in her neighborhood since 1998, leading meetings and subsequently a national march in 23 cities in France, "the women's march against the ghettos and for equality", which will give birth to the Ni Putes Ni Soumises movement.
Lewis draws similarities between Baldrick's relics scene and The Pardoner's Tale from Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, whose protagonist also has a trade in fake relics.
As with guitarist Brett Gurewitz and lead singer Greg Graffin, he was a student of El Camino Real High School.
In their study of Zappa published in the journal Studies in Musical Theatre, Carr and Hand mention that the song is "a satire of L.
Congregations of Mormons have been banned throughout the country and the small Kaifeng Jewish community has been suppressed.
Reception On 5 October 2019, the film had its world premiere at the Nashville Film Festival, followed by screenings at other festivals in the U.S.A.
Simmons stated in his book Kiss and Make-Up: "Vinnie Vincent came up to me and apologized for causing the band all the grief while he was a member.
An abridged translation in English, of Zera Yacob's inquiry only, appeared in New Times and Ethiopia News (London) from 5 February until 4 March 1944.
Critical reception Although Felicity Hughes of The Japan Times describes Haruhi as having tsundere character traits in her treatment of Kyon, she notes that the opinion is controversial as fans consider her "too energetic to be truly tsundere".
However, her contract for The Fountainhead gave the first option to its publisher, Bobbs-Merrill Company.
Haruhiism is a mock religion, based on Koizumi's suggestion that an undefined phenomenon which happened three years prior to the start of the series was Haruhi destroying the universe and then creating the current universe according to her own design.
The Cult was intended as a civic religion—inspired by the works of Rousseau, Quatremère de Quincy, and Jacques-Louis David, it presented "an explicit religion of man".
Loot for the first time received favourable reviews and transferred to London with a new director and cast.
See also Dechristianisation of France during the French Revolution Religion of Humanity Cult of the Supreme Being God-Building Notes References Citations Sources External links Media related to Cult of Reason at Wikimedia Commons
Festive girls in white Roman dress and tricolor sashes milled around a costumed Goddess of Reason who "impersonated Liberty".
Jawaharlal Nehru (1889-1964), first prime minister of India who said "The spectacle of what is called religion, or at any rate organised religion, in India and elsewhere, has filled me with horror and I have frequently condemned it ...." in his autobiography.
The band's most recent studio album, Age of Unreason, was recorded in 2018 and 2019, with a May 1, 2019 release.
Burke argued that "the consecration of the state by a state religious establishment" was necessary to secure the freedom of Englishmen.
Cleaver is on Lithia, setting up his reactors, but the physicist who invented the telescope technology believes he has found a fault in Cleaver's reasoning.
It was commissioned for a documentary film titled Dancer, directed by Steven Cantor yet leaked online by LaChapelle before its premiere at Sundance Selects.
Music video The music video for the song was directed by Maxim Rosenbauer and filmed in Berlin, Germany.
If the remedy to revealed religion is natural religion, then the solution to civil society is natural society.
Prior to his confirmation, Myers says, "I started thinking, you know, I don't believe a word of this." Now an atheist, Myers comments on his blog about science, education, atheism and religion.
According to some Christian exegesis, David begins to reference the return of Christ to retrieve his people.
However, some minor strains of radical Zionism promote aggressive war and justify them with biblical texts.
Cast Inspirations The film's script was inspired by lawsuits involving the place of the Christian faith in universities and by the book God's Not Dead: Evidence for God in an Age of Uncertainty published by Pastor Rice Broocks.
Nature according to him is purely physical; it has no purpose, no will, no laws imposed by extraneous authority, no supernatural ethical sanction.
Ron Hoover and the First Church of Appliantology." Plot Appliantology is shown as an insincere religion, which cooperates with a "malevolent totalitarian regime." This is an apparent reference to Scientology and its founder L.
There simply can be no dialogue worthy of the name unless Christians accept—nay, treasure—the fact that Jews through the two millennia of Christianity have had an agenda of their own.
In the study, the strength of religiosity in the home in which a scientist was raised, current religious attendance, peers' attitudes toward religion, all had an impact on whether or not scientists saw religion and science as in conflict.
Martens notes, however, that Hetfield does not celebrate God's failure in the song, but instead blames God, through his mother's faith and death, for contributing to the meaninglessness of life.
Despite the text featuring torture, the dialogue contains no actual murder, unlike many of Sade's works.
External links A Case of Conscience title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database "A Case of Conscience" title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database Novella "A Case of Conscience" in the If magazine at the Internet Archive A Case of Conscience at Open Library
Many of the persecutors attempted to justify their actions with particular scriptural interpretations.
In the 2008 documentary Blackadder Rides Again, Richard Curtis and Tony Robinson both mention the relics scene as a particular highlight.
For example, Yacob points out that the Creator in His wisdom has made blood flow monthly from the womb of women, in order for them to bear children.
This, according to Luke, caused the people to attack Jesus and chase him to the top of a hill in order to try to throw Jesus off, though Jesus slips away.
The copyright issue has posed a particular problem since the FAQs started off as a small collection with little thought given to copyright but have since mushroomed.
BCSE estimated that TiS had, at that point, spent around £116,000, including employment of a full-time administrator.
But I'm gonna bring in Jared." In September 2024, it was announced that Daveed Diggs had been cast in a main role for the fifth and final season, that in March 2026 was revealed to be Oh-Father.
Philosophical debate in the book is said to show Diderot's distinct withdrawal from the Age of Enlightenment.
A careful distinction was always drawn between the rational respect of Reason and the veneration of an idol: "There is one thing that one must not tire telling people," Momoro explained, "Liberty, reason, truth are only abstract beings.
While The Black Adder satirises the supposedly unquestioning credulity of the Mediaeval Christian, Lewis suggests that Chaucer's story, by offering a satirical commentary on the relic trade, shows that the teachings of the Church were open to question and ridicule even in the 14th century.
The reason for this action was that Periyar held the Government responsible for maintaining the caste system.
Myers summarizes his stance by invoking "Blake's Law", named for Pharyngula commentator Blake Stacey.
According to both the Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodoxy, many major, foundational Protestant doctrines have been officially declared heretical.
He was executed after a failed attempt to assassinate Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph, becoming a martyr of the Italian unification movement.
It was released as his debut single on 13 September 2013, originally featuring on his extended play of the same name, before being featured as the opening track of his 2014 self-titled debut album.
Wisconsin The FFRF maintains a sign in the Wisconsin State Capitol during the Christmas season, which reads: At this season of THE WINTER SOLSTICE may reason prevail.
Gibson coined the term "cyberspace" for "widespread, interconnected digital technology" in his short story "Burning Chrome" (1982), and later popularized the concept, along with his usage of the "matrix", in his acclaimed debut novel Neuromancer (1984).
Theological noncognitivism is the non-theist position that religious language, particularly theological terminology such as 'God', is not intelligible or meaningful, and thus sentences like 'God exists' are cognitively meaningless.
It is a false religion." Carl Trueman argues that the "(mis)use of the Derridean d-word gives the whole a specious veneer of intellectualism and a certain superannuated postmodern chic".
It has been suggested by several Welles biographers that the tax audit was prompted by the Nixon administration in retaliation for The Begatting of the President.
He continued his philosophical work in defense of materialism, and published Natur und Geist (Nature and Spirit, 1857), Aus Natur und Wissenschaft (From Nature and Science, vol.
Rediscovery and re-release Although released on VHS, the film had long been out of print and had deteriorated.
The book is a collection of essays Twain wrote about Christian Science, beginning with an article that was published in Cosmopolitan in 1899.
Madame de Saint-Ange, a 26-year-old libertine woman who is the owner of the house and bedroom in which the dialogue is set.
Albania (periodical) While in Brussels, in 1896 and 1897 Konica started the publication of the periodical Albania, with publication ending in 1909, after he departed for the US.
Rossini also claimed that a monk, Tekle Haymanot, had heard other people say that Urbino might have written the treatise in cooperation with other Geʽez scholars in Ethiopia.
A humorous work of fiction, it describes how he fell over a cliff while walking in Austria, breaking several bones.
The webpages of the National Academy of Sciences, Smithsonian Institution, Leakey Foundation, the National Center for Science Education and other organizations recommend Talkorigins.org.
When the trial begins, Grace defends her freedom of speech, and the defensive attorneys argue that the discussion that took place in class was an example of a historical analysis of Jesus, as opposed to purely evangelical.
According to official North Korean sources, Kim Il Sung was the original writer of many plays and operas.
On October 31, 2014, in a special setup on Halloween night, Manson performed the song with Johnny Depp on guitar and Ninja (from Die Antwoord) as a background vocalist, in the club Roxy in West Hollywood.
Nur also had negative views of Circassians in Turkey and along with the Albanians viewed them as a threat to the Turkish state due to developing rival nationalisms.
628 pages of compulsive demoniac chatter." The Pope dismisses Ruiz-Sanchez to purge his own soul and to return to the Church if and when he can.
She was the wife of Enver Hoxha, the first leader of the People's Socialist Republic of Albania and the First Secretary of the Party of Labour of Albania.
The site records that the initial pastor of Landover was Ben Ebeneezer Smith, and that upon his death his brother (Deacon Fred Smith) assumed the office.
On 20 November 1913 he went in conflict with Essad Pasha and left Durrës together with his collaborator Fazil Pasha Toptani.
Legal career (1918–1934) From May 1918 and until 1922, Krylenko was Chairman of the Revolutionary Tribunal of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee.
Text The following table shows the Hebrew text of the Psalm with vowels, alongside the Koine Greek text in the Septuagint and the English translation from the King James Version.
Indeed, the Hebrew prophets did not foresee that Israel's savior would be executed as a common criminal by Gentiles, making Jesus' crucifixion a "stumbling block" to scripturally literate Jews.
Nonbelief Relief lost a lawsuit against the IRS because it lacked standing to challenge the Form 990 exemption that applies to churches.
his candle is increasingly softened and weakened by the weather of age, as the years go by, until at last it can no longer stand, and is mournfully laid to rest in the hope of a blessed resurrection which is never to come.
Pascal charged that "remorseful" aristocrats could confess a sin one day, re-commit it the next, then generously donate to the church and return to re-confess their sin, confident that they were being assigned a penance in name only.
Loot was Orton's third major production, following Entertaining Mr Sloane and the television play The Good and Faithful Servant.
At one time he refuses to explain it, but generally he assumes that all natural and spiritual forces are indwelling in matter.
Mémoires, correspondance et ouvrages inédits de Diderot [Memoirs, correspondence and unpublished works of Diderot] (in French).
It was played in E flat tuning from 1994 to 2006 - since 2010, the song has been played in D standard tuning.
See also Apophatic theology Conceptions of God Fideism Ietsism Ineffability Münchhausen trilemma Mysticism Newton's flaming laser sword Problem of religious language Thought-terminating cliché Eliminative materialism References Bibliography == External links ==
Set to come out on May 17, 2022, the first two seasons were released on Blu-ray and DVD, in a six-disc box set by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, on May 31, 2022.
Lyrics In 1969, Raspoet wrote the song "Evviva Il Papa", which criticized the Pope's conservative ideology, papal infallibility, corruption, ban on anticonception and Pius XII's alleged silence during World War II, when the Nazis prosecuted Jewish people.
He spent the next several years using his fame and status as an evangelist to earn a living from both tent revivals and televangelism.
Arthur O'Sullivan played McLeavy, Jill Bennett played Fay, David Troughton played Hal, James Aubrey played Dennis, Philip Stone played Truscott, and Michael O'Hagan played Meadows.
Another student in the class records the interaction using their cell phone, and tells someone else that the teacher has been preaching in the classroom.
The song's lyric examines a perceived hypocrisy of religion, where the death of the savior is glorified.
Citing state core standards, a local judge gives the group a week to develop a court case that they will present before a court of law in Washington D.C.
Loot was revived from 11 December 2008 to 31 January 2009 at the Tricycle Theatre, London starring Matt Di Angelo and David Haig as Hal and Truscott.
The Peripheral's continuation, Agency, was released on January 21, 2020, after being delayed from an initial announced release date of December 2018.
Biography Nexhmije Hoxha was born Nexhmije Xhuglini in Bitola, in present-day North Macedonia, then Yugoslavia.
In the United States, the single reached number 29 on the Billboard Mainstream Rock Tracks chart and number 26 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart.
Oberdan's biographer reports that it is only through the latter form that during the years some Slovenian nationalists have claimed him as of "their own blood".
The story takes place in two eras, one about thirty years into the future and the other further in the future.
Critical assessment The depiction of the medieval world in The Black Adder has been the subject of some critical commentary for drawing on popular perceptions of the period which are not always entirely accurate.
White and Benjamin Onyango reprise their roles, with Shane Harper also reprising his role as Josh Wheaton from the first film.
It was released as the third single from their twelfth studio album, One Assassination Under God – Chapter 1, on November 22, 2024, via Nuclear Blast.
"The God That Failed" is a song by American heavy metal band Metallica from their 1991 self-titled album (often called "the Black Album").
The latter must, therefore, in itself, be both understood in its contradiction and revolutionized in practice.
"Toleration", Burke argued, "so far from being an attack upon Christianity, becomes the best and surest support that possibly can be given to it".
The book ends with the narrator of the story meeting "one of those blondes whom a philosopher ought to avoid", who convinces him that it is better to embrace happiness on earth than to wait for it in heaven.
Over 50% of the arable land was redistributed, an 8-hour work day was proclaimed and all heavy industry was to be nationalized.
The Original Kleptonian Neo-American Church (OKNeoAC), mostly shorted Neo-American Church, is a religious organization based on the use of psychedelic drugs (the "True Host") as a sacrament.
German band Die Ärzte, who supported Kiss in 1996, recorded a German version of the song in 1994 for the tribute album Kiss My Ass: Classic Kiss Regrooved.
The content of the Traité has been traced primarily to Spinoza, but with subsequent additions drawn from the ideas of Pierre Charron, Thomas Hobbes, François de La Mothe Le Vayer, Gabriel Naudé and Lucilio Vanini.
Over coming months, Trump retweeted a second tweet that had "#WhiteGenocide" as a hashtag as well as sharing other tweets issued by white supremacists.
The creators of the book have been identified by documentary evidence as Jean Rousset de Missy and the bookseller Charles Levier.
The music video for the single would be nominated in three categories at the 1997 MTV Video Music Awards namely, Best Rock Video, Best Art Direction and Best Special Effects.
Responses to the first production were extremely mixed, with many in the audience outraged, as Orton had intended, but largely negative reviews also affected the box office.
They then eagerly begin practical lessons, with Le Chevalier joining them in the fourth act and swiftly helping to take away Eugénie's virginity.
Büchner endorsed Charles Darwin's theory of evolution within a decade of its first issuance, writing the book Man in the Past, Present and Future in 1869 about what he felt were Darwinism's implications.
Kelly, conservative activist and candidate for Illinois Comptroller, attempted to remove a FFRF sign at a Christmas display.
It supplied no field for the imagination, and forced it back upon Polytheism and Fetichism, which, under Theology, form the only possible foundation for poetry.
Statistics Alt-rightists have provided their own opinions on its numbers; in 2016, Anglin thought it had a "cohesive constituency" of between 4 million and 6 million people, while Griffin believed it had a core membership in the hundreds of thousands, with a larger range of sympathizers.
In the manner of conventional religion, it encouraged acts of congregational worship and devotional displays to the ideal of Reason.
For example, the Eastern Orthodox see it as a condition brought about by, and the natural consequence of, free rejection of God's love.
Religious organizations and clerics figure prominently in the broad histories of science, until the professionalization of the scientific enterprise, in the 19th century, led to tensions between scholars taking religious and secular approaches to nature.
Nexhmije later claimed in her 1998 memoir, My Life with Enver, that her husband expressed some regrets over the number of executions which the Sigurimi carried out.
Moreover, in philosophy, the term casuistry is a pejorative criticism of the use of clever but unsound reasoning, especially in ethical questions, as in the case of sophistry.
Personal life Bentley has two sons: Miles (born 1991), who played bass in Dave Hause and The Mermaid, and Hunter (born 1993).
Currently and in the past leaders in the largest denomination of Mormonism have looked down on dancing that includes any full-body contact, is suggestive of any sexual behavior, and/or has same-sex romantic overtones.
While on a walking survey of the land, Cleaver, a physicist, is poisoned by a plant, despite a protective suit, and he suffers badly.
Hamblin concluded that the book "should certainly not be seen as reasonable grounds for rejecting belief in God".
The 1983 Code of Canon Law (1183 §2) specifies that "Children whose parents had intended to have them baptized but who died before baptism, may be allowed church funeral rites by the local ordinary".
The film contains scenes from revival meetings showing Gortner preaching and praying for people in Los Angeles, Fort Worth, Detroit, and Anaheim.
The track peaked within the top ten of Billboard's Hard Rock Digital Song Sales, making it the band's twelfth top ten hit on that chart.
Additional passage There is an additional passage after verse 3 which is present in the Septuagint, the Vulgate, and one Hebrew manuscript, but missing from the Masoretic Text and from Psalm 53.
She died of cancer after refusing medical attention, solely relying on her belief in God to heal her.
The texts were given to France's National Library in Paris in 1902, after d'Abbadie's death, and Turayev translated the first extracts in December 1903 (St.
The BCSE protested when the prominent intelligent design group Truth in Science sent information packs to every UK secondary school in September 2006.
With these observations he promoted the heliocentric theory of Nicolaus Copernicus (published in De revolutionibus orbium coelestium in 1543).
On December 5, 2023, a second collaboration was announced for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III, with A-Train and Firecracker joining the playable roster as part of the game's first seasonal content update.
Thus, Socrates speaks the truth when he says he knows-C something, and he is also truthful when saying he knows-E, for example, that it is evil for someone to disobey his superiors, as he claims in Apology.
He does not write extensively on Socrates; and, when he does, he is mainly preoccupied with the early dialogues of Plato.
In contrast, the Anglican Communion and the Methodist church uphold the doctrine of prima scriptura, which holds that Sacred tradition, reason and experience are the sources of Christian doctrine, but are nonetheless subordinate to the authority of the Bible as well.
Since the 1960s, applied ethics has revived the ideas of casuistry in applying moral reasoning to particular cases in law, bioethics, and business ethics.
Feuerbach, consequently, does not see that the "religious sentiment" is, itself, a social product, and that the abstract individual [person] whom he analyses belongs to a particular form of society.
Part of the book presents a fictional story, set shortly after the Battle of Fontenoy, involving a small group of philosophers.
He used a CD of Invincible Friends as the source and initially made his remix available as a free download, to the consternation of the copyright owner, Wagram Music.
Martov: A Political Biography of a Russian Social Democrat, Cambridge University Press, 2003, ISBN 978-0-521-52602-9 p.
12:42 says many did believe, but they kept it private, for fear the Pharisees would exclude them from the Synagogue.
David Hayward, also known as "nakedpastor", says that he "co-opted the term" from Derrida, whose work he was reading at the time his beliefs started to erode.
To call on them to give up their illusions about their condition is to call on them to give up a condition that requires illusions.
Appearances "Unholy" has appeared on following Kiss albums: Revenge - studio version Alive III - live version The Box Set - edited studio version The Best of Kiss, Volume 3: The Millennium Collection - studio version Kiss Alive!
They say that the one god regarded as male, opposes everything related to change, sensuality, nature, feeling, and femininity.
This would take the number of allegations beyond 2,504, especially since it seems that child sexual abuse was at its worst in the 1960s and 1970s.
The suspension was prompted by Uri Geller's statement that the RRS had infringed his copyright when posting a video featuring him.
I, Pastafari: A Flying Spaghetti Monster Story is a 2019 documentary film directed by Michael Arthur.
The significance of this reference appears in a conversation in which Francisco d'Anconia asks Rearden what advice he would give Atlas if "the greater [the Titan's] effort, the heavier the world bore down on his shoulders".
As a method of reasoning, casuistry is both the: Study of cases of conscience and a method of solving conflicts of obligations by applying general principles of ethics, religion, and moral theology to particular and concrete cases of human conduct.
In their book The Abuse of Casuistry: A History of Moral Reasoning (1988), Albert Jonsen and Stephen Toulmin argue that it is not casuistry but its abuse that has been a problem; that, properly used, casuistry is powerful reasoning.
The parody is called "Ted Poley" and was inspired by a real life encounter between Danger Danger vocalist Ted Poley and Kiss frontman Paul Stanley, while the two bands were on tour together in 1992.
All of these were healed within three hours of the "Christian Science doctor's" visit of the second day of the story.
The circularity and resulting meaninglessness of this alleged definition is hidden from view by separating it into two separate sentences: (1) God is the creator of the universe.
Hell and damnation It has been observed that monks threaten their audiences with the torments of Hell, linking salvation to regular offerings and verification.
Radisson is willing to grant credit for this unit of course if Josh agrees to "defend the antithesis"—that God is not dead—in front of the class.
The book is separated into two parts: the first being a critique of religion, and the second a philosophical dialogue.
Johan Anthierens, who had a radio show about chanson, protested the ban by not playing the record on the air, but reading its lyrics to the listeners.
Some modern Jewish scholars hold that biblical texts authorizing offensive war no longer apply, and that Jewish theology instructs Jews to leave vengeance to God.
Mormons In 2025, the Chinese government banned congregations of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in China throughout the country.
See also Christwire Westboro Baptist Church List of satirical magazines List of satirical news websites List of satirical television news programs Parody religion References External links Landover Baptist Church
In 1995, Vickers, then a computer science graduate student at the University of California at Irvine, created the TalkOrigins Archive web site.
Plot The film features followers and members of the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, called 'Pastafari', as they practice and campaign politically, legally and socially to obtain the same privileges and legal exemptions granted to religions.
Galileo's initial discoveries were met with opposition within the Catholic Church, and in 1616, the Inquisition declared heliocentrism to be formally heretical.
Take a sense of humor and/or a stiff drink with this dated bit of melodrama." However, according to historian of science and religion James C.
The film received mostly positive reviews, including in The Hollywood Reporter, Newsweek, The Guardian, Die Presse and Westdeutsche Zeitung.
Furthermore, another work published in 1770, Questions sur l'Encyclopédie, which contained reshaped and modified articles from the Encyclopédie always in alphabetical order, led many following editors to join this and the Dictionnaire (plus other minor works) in a unique opus.
Philosophy in the Boudoir (French: La philosophie dans le boudoir), often mistranslated as Philosophy in the Bedroom, is a 1795 book by the Marquis de Sade written in the form of a dramatic dialogue.
It was shot in and around an abandoned Los Angeles motel called the Pink Lady, was inspired by the David Fincher film Seven.
Until 1999, an ordinance in Pound, Virginia required that dance hall permits not be granted "to anyone who is not a proper person, nor to a person who is not a person of good moral character".
Fabrications of the text eventually begin clandestine circulation, with a notable French underground edition Traité sur les trois imposteurs first appearing in 1719.
In imperial China, bereaved families would pay monks to chant at their homes, offering alms to the monastic community in return.
His wisdom is referred to His doctrine, His mighty works to His miracles." Jerome: "Wonderful folly of the Nazarenes!
During twenty-three days in every month (in absence of pregnancy) from the time a woman is seven years old till she dies of old age, she is ready for action, and competent.
Myers expressed outrage that Fox News Channel appeared to be inciting readers to cause further problems for the student, and ridiculed reports that armed guards would attend the next mass.
He was prominent in the years immediately after the First World War, where he served as a cabinet minister but was subsequently marginalised, and became a critic of Atatürk.
A limited notion of gender complementarity is held by some, known as "complementarity without hierarchy".
Periyar stated that what he was propagating could be found in the teachings of Buddha given 2000 years ago and wanted to revive them as an independent movement.
"Sinner" is a song by American rock band Drowning Pool, released in August 2002 as the third and final single from their debut album of the same name.
Head of the Red Army At the Second All Russian Congress of Soviets on 25 October, Krylenko was made a People's Commissar (minister) and member of the triumvirate (with Pavel Dybenko and Nikolai Podvoisky) responsible for military affairs.
Hearsay concerning such a book surfaces by the 13th century and circulates through the 17th century.
The alphabetically arranged articles often criticize the Roman Catholic Church, Judaism, Islam, and other institutions.
When we were done shooting, the only things left standing were the prostitutes coming in and out of the motel." Meaning Regarding the song's meaning, vocalist Dave Williams explained, "Every religion has a list ...
Nine Inch Nails also performed "The Beautiful People", with frontman Trent Reznor on bass guitar and Marilyn Manson on lead vocals, on May 9, 2000, at Madison Square Garden.
At His feet stood three colossal figures, diminished to extinction, almost, by contrast—archangels—their heads level with His ankle-bone.
Production The album's script was written by Myron Roberts, Lincoln Haynes and Sasha Gilien, and was simultaneously published by Ballantine Books.
No evidence condemning Oberdan emerged from the uncovered documents, however, it is not excluded that some part of the documentation was "lost".
Made with the knowledge and consent of Gortner, who, now in his late twenties, regrets the many lies he had been taught to preach as a child evangelist, documents his story and preachings that often leave church-goers in states of fervent euphoria, and culminate in money donations.
In a talk show featuring Myers on Catholic Radio International, hosted by Jeff Gardner, Myers confirmed that he had been sent an unspecified number of consecrated hosts and said that he intended to "subject them to heinous cracker abuse".
Faik Konica, Vepra 1, 2, 3, 4 on shtepiaelibrit.com "Albania" – by Faik Konitza (Jun 1898 – Nov 1899)
The film began its international roll-out in Mexico on April 4, 2014, where the movie grossed $89,021 its opening weekend.
When he ignored the ban and tried to perform it one time in Borgerhout the police forced him to leave the stage.
"Take Me to Church" draws inspiration from author Christopher Hitchens and paraphrases the poet Fulke Greville's verse "Created sick, commanded to be sound".
In this way, Burke envisioned Christianity as "contributing directly to the cohesion and improvement of society".
The Proportionality Problem: It is difficult to determine the evaluative relationship between a person's good and bad behavior.
In and around June 2010 a "coup" was related to website visitors (in accordance with a spurious interpretation of Romans 13) whereby Pastor Harry Harkwell took over leadership.
According to the Qur'an, the Jews exalted a figure named Uzair as the "son of God" (see the Quranic statements about perceived Jewish exaltation).
In particular, Discovery Institute fellow William Dembski has written disparagingly of the BCSE on his blog, Uncommon Descent.
Everybody's got that list of what is going to keep you from getting into Heaven, but everybody's broken at least one of those rules, no matter what religion you are ...
Antireligion is distinct from deity-specific positions such as atheism (the lack of belief in deities) and antitheism (an opposition to belief in deities); although "antireligionists" may also be atheists or antitheists.
Its appearance was noted by the American National Center for Science Education in a news article on 2 November 2006.
The psychedelic churches exist to promote and defend the psychedelic religion, a religion which sees in the transcendental experience produced by the sacred substances the key to understanding life and improving the condition of man on earth.
A disused match factory, the Manufacture des allumettes d'Aubervilliers, has been transformed into a place of image education for young people.
However, Theodore Drange distinguishes noncognitivism and agnosticism, describing the latter as accepting that theological language is meaningful but being noncommittal about its truth or falsity on the grounds of insufficient evidence.
Eminent Femen will thus appear in the Arab world, advocating for LGBT rights, particularly in Tunisia and Morocco.
Amy confronts the Newsboys in their dressing room but asks them to help guide her in converting to Christianity.
And we didn't sleep for, like, two days because we shot the thing from six at night until eight in the morning.
In a May 8, 2007, clarification, Comfort stated that he would cease using the qualifier "without mentioning faith or the Bible" from his claims to avoid misunderstandings.
People who deconstruct have described destabilizing feelings of anxiety, guilt, anger, confusion, and fear, as well as curiosity, awe, and liberation.
National Academy of Sciences Convocation on Technology and Education in 1993 ("the Al Gore people"), in which they argued against the digital divide and "appalled everyone" by proposing that all schools be put online, with education taking place over the Internet.
An account based on the testimony of the brother of the publisher Caspar Fritsch, an associate of Marchand, has Levier in 1711 borrowing the original text from Benjamin Furly.
As she recovers from her injuries, the strikers explain their motives, and she learns that the strikers include Francisco and many prominent people, such as her favorite composer, Richard Halley, and infamous pirate Ragnar Danneskjöld.
Later moving with her parents to the Albanian capital, Tirana, she studied at the Queen Mother Pedagogical Institute.
The country once boasted a healthcare system that was enviable; pre-famine North Korea had a network of nearly 45,000 family practitioners with some 800 hospitals and 1,000 clinics.
Historic bans From the 1830s to 1950s, play parties became popular in the United States of America as a means to circumvent restrictions on dancing.
Morality Auguste Comte (1798-1857) likened monotheism of Western Europe in his time to polytheism of the past: Monotheism in Western Europe is now as obsolete and as injurious as Polytheism was fifteen centuries ago.
Some feminist thinkers have criticized the monotheistic concept as the model of the highest form of patriarchal power.
The title track recounts how someone is inspired to kill his brother by reading the story of Cain and Abel in the Bible.
Muslim], appear to me no other than human inventions set up to terrify and enslave mankind, and monopolize power and profit." Karl Marx (1818–1883), German philosopher, social scientist, socialist.
Throughout history, Judaism's religious texts or precepts have been used to promote as well as oppose violence.
He argues that religious metaphysics are false and that advances in science make leaps of faith increasingly redundant (ch.
The BCSE features a website on which it tracks leading creationists and creationist organizations, particularly those active in the United Kingdom.
Initially, Twain's sole surviving child, Clara Clemens, objected to its publication in March 1939, probably because of its controversial and iconoclastic views on religion, claiming it presented a "distorted" view of her father.
His rejection of traditional forms of piety, connecting them to self-interest, implied that Athenians should seek religious experience by self-examination.
The National Museum of Malí (French: Musée national du Mali) is an archaeological and anthropological museum located in Bamako, the capital of Mali.
Today, the museum manages a collection of over 125.000 pieces, being an active actor on the Arad cultural scene, assuming a reformative role.
At the time of the construction of the building, the previous octagonal museum was kept, and the office of the Department of Archeology next to it was dismantled.
Constructed on the site of earlier buildings destroyed during the Gothic raids in 250–251, it was abandoned in the 7th century due to Avar and Slavic invasions.
In 2009, the museum had moved to a new location and was reopened as the National Archaeological Museum Aruba.
Designed by the British architect Leslie Martin, CAM's original building has been a three-story structure with a vast single-room gallery consisting of interconnecting floors; movable panels provide for maximum flexibility in arranging exhibits.
A research directory outlining research projects, centres and networks at the Institute of Archaeology is available on the institute's website.
French 18th century decorative art has a special place in the museum, with outstanding gold and silver objects and furniture, as well as paintings and sculptures.
Public Archaeology is a journal sponsored by the institute, launched in 2000 as an international peer-reviewed journal with a focus on the issues of cultural heritage, community archaeology and archaeological practice as it relates to wider civil and governmental concerns.
Starting from the winter semester of 1930/31, Neumann offered courses as a volunteer assistant at the Department of History.
Wietenberg Culture Artifacts Dacian Ages in Transylvania The Dacian collection present a rich collection of artifacts, including weaponry.
Didrichsen Art Museum (Finnish: Didrichsenin taidemuseo, Swedish: Didrichsens konstmuseum) is an art museum in Helsinki, Finland.
Theft and recovery of artifacts On 14 January 1987, the museum was robbed of nine valuable artifacts by a group of thieves.
Sala delle Muse: houses the statue group of Apollo and the nine muses, uncovered in a Roman villa near Tivoli in 1774, as well as statues by important ancient Greek or Roman sculptors.
van Koolwijk References External links Media related to Archaeological Museum of Aruba at Wikimedia Commons Official website
The López Museum moved to the Benpres Building in Pasig on April 19, 1986, with its previous building in Pasay later demolished.
Déri Museum, Debrecen, two mummies – the priest Hor and a middle-aged man who lived during the 18th Dynasty.
Borowski heeded her advice, built the Bible Lands Museum and moved his collection from a museum in Toronto to Jerusalem.
This was funded by the family of David Samuel Gottesman, a Hungarian émigré, the philanthropist who had purchased the scrolls as a gift to the State of Israel.
Museum of Ethnology References External links Official website (English version) Annals, an early history of the museum.
The museum presents a panorama overview of Sudanese archaeology, is based on the fieldwork and research conducted by the Swiss Archaeological Mission.The site attracts a high number of visitors, with annual attendance exceeding 30,000 people.
The Djibouti Museum (Arabic: متحف جيبوتي, romanized: Matḥaf Jībūtī) is a history and art museum in Djibouti City, Djibouti.
The museum was established in 1997 to house the pre-Columbian art collection formerly held by its parent museum, the Barbier-Mueller Museum in Genève, Switzerland, which was loaned to the city of Barcelona.
In the ground floor's five balconies overlooking the Nile, there are deer-skin chairs embossed with King Farouk's name in hieroglyphs, and a statue representing the Egyptian and Sudanese women, symbolizing the unity of Egypt and Sudan as a single kingdom at the time.
Villa and museum The museum was founded as a result of archaeological research beginning in 1976, which uncovered the House of Antiope, a Late Roman villa decorated with floor mosaics.
Gallery of the Statues (Galleria delle Statue): as its name implies, holds various important statues, including Sleeping Ariadne and the bust of Menander.
History Fritz Buck, a German jeweler who migrated to Bolivia in the first half of the 20th century, initiated his collection with objects he bought in Peru, the country he first arrived in.
The agreement provided the museum with a new information technology system, and an improvement of the conservation facilities of its collections.
A collection of Armenian coins, issued in Tsopk; Minor Hayk (3rd century BC – 150 BC); coins of the Armenian Artaxiad dynasty (189 BC – 6 AD); of the Kiurike kingdom (11th century); and Armenian kingdom of Cilicia (1080–1375).
The year 2012 marked the institute's 75th anniversary, and a number of events and activities were held to mark this occasion.
After Hilprecht’s death in 1925, the collection was bequeathed to Friedrich Schiller University Jena, in accordance with his last will, and named the "Frau Professor Hilprecht Collection of Babylonian Antiquities" in memory of his first wife.
Roman Times of Dacia Medieval Times Modern times Egyptian Collection Lapidarium Treasury See also Museums in Cluj-Napoca Prehistory of Transylvania External links Museum website (in Romanian) Museum website Archived 2006-08-20 at the Wayback Machine (in Romanian) [1] (in Romanian)
Represented sculptors include Neoclassicists such as Canova, Sergel, Carstens, Flaxman, Rauch and Baily, as well as Modernists like Meunier, Klinger, Picasso and Giacometti.
Isan (or northeastern Thailand), once home to Ban Chiang, Dvaravati, Lopburi and Khmer civilizations.
It previously was located in Pasig, Philippines at the ground floor of the Benpres Building, Exchange Road corner Meralco Avenue, Ortigas Center.
The Jebel Barkal Museum is an archaeological site museum located on the eastern side of the archaeological area of Jebel Barkal at Karima in the Northern State of Sudan.
Collection The museum is dedicated to the display of objects excavated by the Atlas Arqueológico de Guatemala within the southeastern Petén region.
Mujica also collected over 20,000 weapons from around the world, the oldest dated from the 13th century.
New scientific reviews are being edited since 1992: Studies and Communications of Art and Architecture, Natural Harmonies (1995) – researches from the field of natural sciences – and Zarandul (1999), containing ethnographic studies.
During the 19th century, the museum was visited by internationally renowned scholars such as Alexander von Humboldt.
After 1945, the museum grew in importance and developed its research area, under the name "Museum of the Iron Gates Region".
Displays The three gallery rooms of the museum display artefacts and pottery findings from excavations conducted in the Jebel Barkal area, among them one of the royal Twenty-fifth Dynasty of Egypt statues found by George A.
The museum originated in 1911 as the Municipal Museum of History and Art (Museo Civico di Storia e d'Arte).
Modern Romanian fine arts are also represented, with works by Luchian, Petrașcu, Pallady, Tonitza, Dimitrescu, Șirato, Stoenescu and Ressu.
Once the new museum was created, the collection was provisionally installed in a wing of the main floor of the National Archeological Museum, and was inaugurated on July 13, 1944.
Petersburg in 2009, at the Princeton University Art Museum in 2010, and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York from 2014 to 2015.
As of January 2025, the design has been finalized, and the estimated date of completion is the second quarter of 2026.
The museum is located on Museum Row in Givat Ram, between the Israel Museum, the National Campus for the Archaeology of Israel, and the Bloomfield Science Museum.
The construction of the contemporary museum building began in February 1963 in the Chapultepec park.
The Best of the Best: Prints, Drawings, and Photographs from the DIA Collection (November 23, 2007 – March 2, 2008) The DIA has chosen over 100 of the "best" prints, drawings, and photographs out of the museums 35,000 pieces of work to be displayed in the exhibit.
The museum represents an integral picture of the history and culture of Armenia, from prehistory to the present day.
The museum's collection also includes Zo to kujira-zu byōbu (Elephant and Whale), a late masterpiece by Itō Jakuchū, one of Japan's most popular painters.
"The Gulbenkian Museum is closed for renovation until July 2026." Collection The permanent exhibition and galleries are distributed chronologically and in geographical order to create two independent circuits within the overall tour.
Museum content The Tetouan Museum includes a collection of archaeological and historical pieces dating back to various time periods.
Both the lapidary collection and the open air collection in the palace garden present the oldest material culture of the coastal and karst areas.
In 2024, it became the highest rated museum in all of Argentina on the Tripadvisor platform, and has received the company's Traveller Choice award that year and also previously in 2021 and 2022.
Digitization using imaging techniques Initial attempts at digitizing the collection began in the mid-1990s.
Today’s collection Since 1975, considerable donations have allowed the acquisition of over 15.000 unique items from the ancient Near East.
See also List of museums in Saudi Arabia References External links Media related to Jeddah Regional Museum of Archaeology and Ethnography at Wikimedia Commons
Description The museum contains collections of pre-Columbian art once owned by artist Rufino Tamayo.
It holds collections of intangible heritage resources and provides an interpretation of how people lived and acted in the past; this is accomplished according to sound scientific methods for the purposes of education, study and enjoyment of its visitors.
Clement XIV came up with the idea of creating a new museum in Innocent VIII's Belvedere Palace and started the refurbishment work.
In 2022 the museum was one of nine in Morocco to send some of its objects on loan to the National Archaeological Museum in Madrid for a binational exhibition.
They can include stone epigraphs; statues; architectural elements such as columns, cornices, and acroterions; bas reliefs, tombstones; and sarcophagi.
In 1846 Robert Smirke was replaced as the museum's architect by his brother Sydney Smirke, whose major addition was the Round Reading Room 1854–1857; at 140 feet (43 m) in diameter it was then the second widest dome in the world, the Pantheon in Rome being slightly wider.
History The Uganda Martyrs Museum was established at the Church of Uganda grounds in Namugongo, conceived by Archbishop Livingstone Mpalanyi Nkoyoyo.
There is also controversy over artefacts taken during the destruction of the Old Summer Palace in Beijing by an Anglo-French expeditionary force during the Second Opium War in 1860, an event which drew protest from Victor Hugo.
Labels on maps and display panels were changed from Palestine to the historical region of Canaan or the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah, as appropriate to the period in question.
Due to increasing obsolescence of analogue formats, AIATSIS identifies digitisation as the way to preserve those items for future generations to access.
A temple dedicated to Aqvon, the deity of the Voglajna River, was built in the Late Roman era, on the foundations of which an early Christian church was later built, and on the western edge of the hill there was another church, where Arianism was practiced.
The Arad Museum Complex (Romanian: 'Complexul Muzeal Arad') is primarily a history and archaeology museum in the city of Arad, Romania.
Many archaeology museum are in the open air, such as the Ancient Agora of Athens and the Roman Forum.
Buildings It is located in several neighboring buildings, most prominently two designed by Melchior Berri in the early 19th century.
The exhibits range from ancient pottery, jewelry, stone engravings, ancient coins, and daily tools that reflect the development of society in ancient times.
On 27 May 1991, Sheikh Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi issued a decree to establish a Department of Antiquities and Heritage for the Emirate of Fujairah, including maintenance of the museum and its collection.
Among the artefacts in the collection are a mosaic mask consisting of 19 pieces of jade of unknown provenance and a sculpted stone atlante column.
Erebuni Historical-Archaeological Reserve-Museum (Armenian: «Էրեբունի» պատմահնագիտական արգելոց-թանգարան), was established on October 19, 1968.
It was Carl Jacobsen who chose the name for the museum, with inspiration from Ludwig I's Glyptothek in Munich, as well as Vilhelm Dahlerup as the architect for the assignment.
In 1936, an early Iron Age urn cemetery and an early medieval terraced cemetery near Dreitzsch were investigated.
There are a total of ten galleries: Formative, Nasca, Mochica, Huari, Chancay – Chimu, Inca, Wood, Jewelry and Stone, Silver, and Gold and Metals.
The museum contains archaeological discoveries from stone age, bronze age, Iron Age, pre-Islamic Sassanian period, Islamic and Julfar period.
It follows the development of fibulae in that area from prehistoric to Roman times and the early Middle Ages.
See also Tamayo Contemporary Art Museum — houses the modern art collection of Rufino Tamayo, in Mexico City.
Without a fixed location, The collection settled in various places until 1872, when it was exhibited in the main palace of the International Exhibition.
The museum is housed in the 17th century Magna Curia Palace, constructed in 1621 under the authority of Prince (Voivode) Gabor Bethlen.
True to scale architectural reconstructions in the open air – Archaeological open-air museums deal with outdoor true-to-scale reconstructed buildings.
However, since its founding, the museum has received numerous criticisms from local indigenous groups, who denounce the unconsulted removal and exhibition of the children as a desecration as well as a violation of indigenous rights.
The Art Gallery branch of the museum (Sectia de Arta) is located in the opposite prefecture, on the other side of the park and on the corner of Str.
About half of the funding comes from the city, while the other half is raised through revenue, sponsors, and donations.
These plans are on hold to allow for a thorough archaeological investigation of the museum courtyard.
The collection of special Bibles has been transferred to the special collection of the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam.
According to this request, the government gave the old administration building (පරණ කච්චේරි ගොඩනැගිල්ල) in Anuradhapura for the establishment of the Archaeological Museum.
A lapidarium is a place where stone (Latin: lapis) monuments and fragments of archaeological interest are exhibited.
Tamayo left the museum to his native state of Oaxaca, for his fellow Mexicans awareness of their rich cultural heritage.
History Jerusalem mayor Teddy Kollek was the driving spirit behind the establishment of the Israel Museum, one of the leading art and archaeology museums in the world.
Construction began in December 1999, with the fabric of the building being completed in November 2000.
Emanuel Forchhammer, a professor of Pali at Rangoon College, was entrusted with the task of preserving it.
It comprises a collection of crowns, earrings, nose ornaments, garments, masks and vases, finely wrought in gold and decorated with semi-precious stones.
Such collections are often displayed in the outdoor courtyards of archaeology museums and history museums.
[Hebrew] See also Burnt House – a nearby museum, showcasing the remains of another priestly mansion destroyed by the Romans in 70 CE Siege of Jerusalem (70 CE) – for a historical overview of the siege and the city's destruction == References ==
Since 1967, the museum issues its own scientific publication called Ziridava, named after the nearby Dacian settlement mentioned by Ptolemy and archaeologically identified at Pecica.
Containers specially designed for classifying, storing and conserving archaeological artefacts will be installed in the museum's storage areas, while the textiles storage area will also receive new equipment which meets international standards for conserving precious materials.
The museum was initially located in the round tower of the castle building, which also constituted the northeastern corner of the city fortifications.
Support for the museum came from Detroit philanthropists such as Charles Lang Freer, and the auto barons: art and funds were donated by the Dodges, the Firestones and the Fords, especially Edsel Ford and his wife Eleanor, and subsequently their children.
The museum's publishing activity has increased since 1985, in connection with the large special exhibitions that it has organised since then, and it now publishes around five new titles per year.
The building was constructed as a royal palace from 1928 to 1932 under the supervision of Muhammed bin Laden.
Some thieves were able to bypass the security system and steal about 220 pieces of gold and silver, including the Tumi lambayeque.
It provides a comprehensive view of the history of Dilijan, the historical development of the local people, their lifestyle, culture monuments, and historical and geographical conditions.
However, faced with the insistence of the municipal government, Buck decided to donate the collection to the Republic of Germany, which prepared to take it out of the country.
In June 1993 the plans for the museum were settled and construction of the museum building had begun.
In November 2014 the Belmopan Business Network said it was interested in reviving the Belmopan Museum.
History Plans for the museum had begun in 1944 after accidental archeological discoveries prompted by mining in the area, but it was not until October 1949, when £6500 pounds was granted for its construction that work began.
In November 2022, the Japanese government announced the designation of three hanging scrolls in the museum's collection as Important Cultural Properties.
Prior to the establishment of the museum, the site was known as the "garden of sculptures" and many Cham sculptures that had been collected in Da Nang, Quảng Nam and elsewhere had been brought there over the preceding twenty years.
The museum's most famous painting is by Mexican artist, Luis de Mena, of the Virgin of Guadalupe and castas on a single canvas.
That year, Vasile Pârvan, head of the National Museum of Antiquities, wrote a report calling for a permanent museum in Constanța; this is considered its founding charter.
It was founded in 1996 on the 660th anniversary of Amir Timur's birth and contains archaeological, ethnographic, and numismatic collections.
The building of the Museum that houses 12,235 exhibits was constructed by architects Baghdasar Arzoumanian and Shmavon Azatian and sculptor A.
Components The above definition was made by EXARC, a global network of professionals for those active in archaeological open-air museums, experimental archaeology, ancient technology and interpretation, using ICOM's definition of museums.
The Antikenmuseum Basel und Sammlung Ludwig (Basel Museum of Ancient Art and Ludwig Collection) is one of the many museums in the city of Basel, Switzerland and a heritage site of national significance.
The National Museum of Ras Al Khaimah (Arabic: متحف رأس الخيمة الوطني) is a museum located in the emirate of Ras al-Khaimah, in the north of the United Arab Emirates.
After its conversion to a public museum, the site opened and closed multiple times for various reasons, the last of which was due to the 2011 security crisis.
They feature depictions of characters from Greek and Roman mythology such as Zeus, Antiope, Ganymede and the gorgon Medusa, as well as floral and geometric motifs and images of exotic animals.
History The museum was established in 1950 with the purpose to find, collect, keep and present the cultural and historical heritage of Mostar and Herzegovina.
Exhibits include : Personal items of the martyrs traditional intrustments historical documents Artistic depictions of the martyrs` lives and sacrifice Architecture The Uganda Martyrs Museum's architecture has both modern and traditional styles.
In 2007 a new building known as "Smaragd" was opened, designed by Alfred Grazioli and Adolf Krischanitz.
After a series of renovations of the building, which was previously shared with a number of unrelated institutions, The Museum was closed between 1981 and 1994 due to renovation work.
The third satellite collection was opened in Prem Castle in 2008, presenting castles and building sites in the Reka river basin.
Prior to the 1963 Act, it was chaired by the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Lord Chancellor and the Speaker of the House of Commons.
For sculpture of Erebuni Museum in 1970 Ara Harutyunyan was awarded a diploma of the USSR Union of Architects for the sculptures on the museum building.
The museum has a permanent exhibition hall, a temporary exhibition hall and a mezanine with a display of 60 archaeological photographs taken between 1994 and 1996.
In 1580, it was acquired by the conquistador Alonso Díaz and subsequently built over in Colonial style to become the home of an elite member of Cusco society, the Viceroy Hernandez de Cabrera, for whom the mansion is named.
The museum was formed using the collections of the Armenian Ethnographical Association of the Caucasus, the Nor Nakhijevan Museum of Armenian Antiquities, the Museum of Antiquities of Ani, and the Vagharshapat Repository of Ancient Manuscripts.
The installations created by 15 artists include video and still photography, text and sound, and sculptures.
Officially, Anuradhapura Archaeological Museum was established under the prime effort of former Director General, Dr.
Collaboration with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture In June 2006, Samuel Sidibé, the director of the National Museum of Mali, signed an agreement of collaboration with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC).
Egyptian antiquities have formed part of the British Museum collection ever since its foundation in 1753 after receiving 160 Egyptian objects from Sir Hans Sloane.
The Khon Kaen National Museum (Thai: พิพิธภัณฑ์แห่งชาติขอนแก่น; RTGS: phiphitthaphan haeng chat khonkaen) was opened by King Bhumibol Adulyadej on 20 December 1972.
Over time the museum shifted its focus to the promotion of intercultural dialog, leading to its official renaming in 1996 as the Museum of Cultures.
It was the Belize City Prison until 1993, when prisoners were then transferred to the Hattieville Prison In 2002, it was restored and renovated into a national museum.
Accordingly, with the help of Nisshanka Wijeratne, who was the Anuradhapura Governor at that time, the museum was able to acquire two buildings from this grant building and the adjoining two-storey recording building.
The museum is located near Zürich Enge railway station, and can also be reached by tram line #7 and bus line #33.
In 2012, it was announced that the López Museum would be moving to a building at the Rockwell Center in Makati.
The section of the museum housed in the former home of Džemal Bijedić, the head of the Yugoslav Government who died in a plane crash in 1977 is dedicated to his life.
The Biblical Museum had several models on permant display: a model of the Temple of Salomon, of the Temple of Herod and a 19th-century model of the Tabernacle.
In 1851, the section was renamed musée américain to account for the diversity of geographical origins of its collections.
Among its collections are chisels and hatchets but despite being in a zone of colonial and Pre-Hispanic metallurgy there are no metal species from the city or its surroundings in the collection.
The Inca culture conquered all the territory of pre-Columbian Peru where they restored with great political ability the Tahuantinsuyo empire.
The two wings are connected by the Winter Garden with mosaic floors, tall palms, a fountain and topped by a dome made in copper and wrought iron.
300 BCE South America Argentina La Plata Museum Brazil Egyptian and Rosicrucian Museum – Tothmea See also List of museums of Egyptian antiquities Gordon Museum of Pathology home to Alan Billis who in 2011 was mummified in an Egyptian manner.
A group of 24 vases salvaged in 1973 from the Hokeb Ha cave in Toledo, southern Belize, was the most interesting part of the collection.
Collections Mujica acquired over 7,000 gold artifacts belonging to pre-Columbian cultures and made out of precious metals such as gold, silver and platinum, in addition to multiple textiles, ceramics, mummies and other valuables.
In March - September 2023 the Biblical Museum held an exhibition in Buitenplaats Doornburgh called EXODUS.
The Amsterdam Fund for the Arts decided in 2016 that the Bijbels Museum lost its grant for the period 2017–2020.
History The art museum was founded by Marie-Louise and Gunnar Didrichsen, who asked Finnish architect Viljo Revell to build the first of two phases in 1958 and again in 1965.
See also Museums in Basel List of museums in Switzerland External links Official website Basel museums website == Footnotes ==
The first expansion was in the mid-1930s, with two new galleries providing display space for the objects added in the 1920s and 1930s.
One was desgnied for Johann Jakob Bachofen-Merian, the father to Johann Jakob Bachofen and the other for the Swiss merchant Isaac Iselin-Roulet.
The rooftop (final floor) is a spacious terrace offering a wide view of the Nile, designed for the king to overlook the city of Helwan.
Uganda Martyrs Museum is a Ugandan museum located in Namugongo Kyaliwajjala Ward, in Kira Municipality, Wakiso District.
The project was led by Manfred Krebernik, professor of Ancient Near Eastern Studies at FSU Jena and curator of the collection, together with Peter Damerow from the MPI for the History of Science.
In 1998, the Department completed museum expansion plans with two large halls covering antiquities and three halls for heritage.
The establishment of the museum was delayed because the building was functioning as a centre to accommodate the Anuradhapura flood victims in the 1940s.
Museum The Herodian Quarter was opened to visitors during Sukkot of 1988 following extensive restoration work.
Archaeological park The permanent exhibition is based on more than a hundred years of archaeological research and is divided into two parts.
Most of the artefacts were excavated from Kaminaljuyu during the period 1994 to 1996 by the Proyecto Miraflores ("Miraflores Project").
Reportedly founded in 1915 as the Musée Henri Parmentier, its first building opened in 1919 and was designed by two French architects, M.
Ceramics, potter's wheels and other articles used in everyday life were also unearthed during excavations.
In 2012, the museum was unable to reach a purchase agreement with the collection's owner Jean Paul Barbier-Mueller.
The exhibition closes with aspects relating to cosmogony, paleontological evidence (testimonies regarding the origin and evolution of man).
Project for the Museum Between the train station and the University of Fribourg stands a 33 meter high defense tower constructed in 1415, which has been unused for decades.
The Shahrisabz Museum of History and Material Culture, also known as the Amir Temur Museum of Shahrisabz, is a museum in the city of Shahrisabz, Uzbekistan.
The first part covers the beginnings of the excavations and the material culture of the Bronze Age and Iron Age from the end of the 4th century BC to the arrival of the Romans, and the second shows renewed flourishing from the arrival of the Romans to that of the Slavs (1st–6th centuries).
Deliberately broken, but in an excellent state of preservation, in the central room of the Museum are displayed the entirely reassembled statues portraying the Nubian Pharaohs Taharqa, Tanwetamani, Senkamanisken, Anlamani, and Aspelta, who ruled Egypt in the 25th Dynasty.
Koori Mail – the entire back catalogue of the Aboriginal owned and controlled newspaper, it is a collection spanning over 20 years and representing over 35,000 pages of digitised material.
The collection consists of 3,000 pieces of Japanese and Oriental art, of which 250 to 300 are on display at any one time.
In 1957, the museum was reorganized under the leadership of Vasile Canarache and moved into a new building, now the Archbishop's Palace.
Among the artworks are ancient Egyptian, Mesopotamian, Persian, and Armenian pieces, as well as Persian art from the Islamic period.
In 1904 the museum created a separate ethnology department (Abteilung für Völkerkunde), and in 1917 the ethnographic collection became an independent institution inside the same building as the Natural History Museum.
It was developed primarily as a resource for secondary schools in the state of Victoria, to help develop an understanding of Aboriginal history and culture by explaining the importance of ancestral remains.
A 1997 guide said that the Archaeology Vault in Belmopan, which had been open for visitors to see a large collection of Mayan artifacts, had been closed for lack of funding.
Memphite Lapidarium (Mit Rahina, Egypt) See also A glyptotheque, a sculpture museum, usually stone sculptures A Lithotheque, an academic collection of natural stone samples References External links Media related to Lapidariums at Wikimedia Commons
To display them, a small museum was built in 1903 to the north of the Ananda Temple, where ancient stone inscriptions were displayed.
References External links Official website Model of Archaic Rome Media related to Museo della Civiltà Romana (Rome) at Wikimedia Commons
Publications The institute publishes research monographs and edited volumes in association with Left Coast Press who also now produce and distribute older Institute of Archaeology publications.
In addition to exhibiting and preserving, the museum also carries out various educational and scientific research projects.
A brief history of Deva and its other neighbouring citadels as well as extensive archaeological discoveries from the numerous sights in and around the Orăştie Mountains are exhibited in the museum.
References External links Iron Gates Region Museum at CIMEC Archived 2011-07-18 at the Wayback Machine
This last museum has also developed a 'museum-without-walls' through a series of underwater wreck trails.
Finally in 1992 they merged again, creating the current museum, and passing under the supervision of the now extinct National Institute of Culture.
They include 950 sculptures and Etruscan antiquities that were purchased by German archaeologist Wolfgang Helbig, Theidoit Jacobsen's broker in Rome for 25 years.
Tocopilla Museum (Spanish: Museo de Tocopilla) is a municipal archaeology museum in the Chilean city of Tocopilla located in the coast of Atacama Desert.
The buyer attempted to sell the head through the auction house Woolley and Wallis, but auctioneer John Axford realized it was stolen and passed it on to police.
Furthermore, this approach shows the relations between Islam and Judaism, between Christianity and Judaism, between Judaism and ancient Near Eastern Paganism, and thereby relativizes the claim to absolute truth by the monotheist religions.
It was characterized as a experimental, with its interdisciplinary approach to the idea of a museum.
The musée mexicain, later musée américain (Mexican Museum / American Museum), was a section of the Louvre that was dedicated to pre-Columbian art, with an initial emphasis on Mexican archaeology.
This was an act of cultural assimilation and genocide where many of the children died and were buried at these schools.
The museum is used to show archaeological objects found in Buduruwagala area and also exhibits relics belonging to Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Kandy periods.
examples of late imperial and early Christian art a complete sequence of casts of the spiral reliefs round Trajan's Column, arranged in horizontal rows at ground level to facilitate reading.
In January - April 2023 the Biblical Museum held an exhibition in Fotogalerie de Gang Haarlem called Eva, Sara en Hanna.
Once returned to New Zealand the remains are not accessioned by Te Papa as the museum arranges their return to their iwi (tribe).
Eventually, this space too became insufficient, as the history section stopped with the Middle Ages.
The museum is located in Zone 11 of Guatemala City, in the southern part of the area once covered by the Maya city of Kaminaljuyu.
Gallery of pre-Columbian Erotic Pottery This hall displays the selection of archaeological objects found by Rafael Larco Hoyle in the 1960s, as a result of his research on sexual representations in Peruvian pre-Columbian art, published in his book, "Checan" (1966).
References External links Geological Museum and Art Gallery on Facebook The Geological Museum and Art Gallery of Dilijan The Geological Museum and Art Gallery on Google map
This resulted in the museum having to close galleries and reduce hours, a fundraising campaign led by Joseph L.
Another important task was the publication of a periodical magazine, the Revista del Museo Nacional, which was published continuously until 2001.
At that time it represented important symbols of protection and power and today it reveals the close bonds of the Bible with its ancient Near Eastern surroundings.
The Museum of Roman Civilization (Italian: Museo della Civiltà Romana) is a museum in the Esposizione Universale Roma district of Rome devoted to aspects of Ancient Roman Civilization.
Numerous smaller discoveries were unearthed, with stone vessels standing out due to their immunity to ritual impurity under Jewish law.
Under its first curator, Renato Constantino, the museum acquired the Juan Luna painting, España y Filipinas which complemented López growing collection of Filipiniana books and maps.
This has led to a diverse research history; from languages and archaeological research, land rights, and political engagement, to contemporary topics in health and commerce.
Some archaeology museums, such as the Western Australian Museum, may also exhibit maritime archaeological materials.
The following is a list of museums with reasonably complete mummies from Egypt in their collections, as well as information on them when applicable.
The initial holdings were later moved to a newly built premises and the building was inaugurated on 12 October 1965.
Rifnik Hill (pronounced [ˈɾiːfnik]) is a hill with an archaeological open-air museum in eastern Slovenia.
Others display artifacts inside buildings, such as National Museum of Beirut and Cairo's Museum of Egyptian Antiquities.
Collection The Miho Museum collection began with Japanese art, including Shinto and Buddhist art, paintings, ceramics, lacquerware and tea ceremony utensils, collected by Mihoko Koyama for over 40 years.
An outside museum was erected at an active archaeological dig site in Nyaung-gan cemetery in Myanmar.
The displays include archaeological finds from tombs at Al Badiyah, Dibba Al-Fujairah, and Qidfa', with objects such as arrowheads, carnelian beads, and vessels.
The museum was founded in 1882 as the County Museum and houses one of the most important archaeological collections in Transylvania, including numismatic, ethnographic and natural science exhibits.
Henri Parmentier, a prominent archaeologist of the department, made great contributions to the campaign for its construction.
Following the removal of its collections from the Louvre in 1887, however, the memory of Longpérier's pioneering pre-Columbian art display gradually faded away to a point of near-oblivion.
Each residence was structured around a central courtyard and likely spanned two, if not three, levels.
While the museum's emphasis is the history of ancient Near Eastern civilizations, the curators draw attention to relevant biblical verses.
United States The Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA), passed in 1990, provides a process for museums and federal agencies to return certain cultural items such as human remains, funerary objects, sacred objects, etc.
Antique collection The Antique collection displays sculptures and other antiquities from the ancient cultures around the Mediterranean.
The MuM Interpretation Centre is an ethnological museum which tells the story of Mostar's religion, culture and spiritual background.
Initially, it was called the "Gold Museum" ("Museo del Oro" in Spanish) before becoming the current "Pre-Columbian Precious Metals Museum." Collections The museum has a collection of over 2000 pieces of stone, metal and ceramic.
It features a permanent exhibition, as well as temporary exhibitions, the "Tezaur" exhibition, and Pharmacy Historical collection—this last opened in the Hintz House, an historical building in the city's center.
One of the chief purposes of Tamayo and the museum was to collect the historic pieces, and to protect them from entering the illegal artifact traders market.
In October 2020, the museum launched the Tamra temporary exhibition (closed in 2022), about the importance and history of the date palm tree in cultural practices and heritage in the region.
Former directors Rebeca Carrión Cachot Julio César Tello See also Museums in Lima Church of Santa María Magdalena (Lima), located nearby References External links (in Spanish) National Museum website Archived 2018-06-03 at the Wayback Machine
Exhibits The main gallery displays hundreds of artifacts: ancient documents, idols, coins, statues, weapons, pottery, and seals from across the ancient Near East.
It then passed through many hands and had multiple functions, ultimately falling into a ruinous state.
Appropriate interpretation with organisation of activities for visitors – Depending on the nature and number of visitors, different kinds of interpretation can be appropriate.
History As early as 1878, the year when the Romanian Old Kingdom acquired Northern Dobruja, its first prefect, Remus Opreanu, proposed creating an archaeology museum.
Galleries Collection The museum has artifacts, manuscripts, and religious relics related to the history of the martyrs and the introduction of christianity in Uganda.
The original gate was designed by Rubio and Javier Ferrand, and was reinforced after a terrorist attack destroyed it.
History of the building The building where the museum is now housed was originally an Inca ceremonial courthouse.
It was built to honor the 45 Christian martyrs executed between 1885-1887, with its design reflecting the historical and spiritual significance of the site.
It opened in 2008 and contains many archaeological items removed from the Kerma culture, as well as a section focusing on the Christian and Islamic history of the region.
Its location, initially in a ground-floor room near the center of the North Wing of the Cour Carrée, was changed several times during its relatively brief existence.
In 1902, Taw Sein Ko, head of the Department of Inscriptions and Stones (now the Department of Archaeology), collected ancient stone inscriptions and artifacts from around Bagan.
Archeological excavations were conducted in connection with the anniversary celebrations and more than 6,500 items of mosaic, majolica, ceramic, copper, iron, and wooden carved items were collected and made part of the museum's collection.
A Creole archaeologist was trained in London to be the museum's future director, and was made head of the department of museums.
Its 59 sections illustrate the history of Roman civilization from its origins to the 4th century, with models and reproductions, as well as original material.
Fagg, who served as the Director of Antiquities of the colonial administration at the time, until 1963.
The museum also received items from the Punic-Mauri site of Tamuda, excavated by César Luis de Montalbán from 1921 onward.
The exhibitions The collection ranges from artefacts of the Stone Age attributed to the Acheulean period found in nearby Wadi Fatimah over items of several pre-Islamic cultures and items illustrating the rise of Islam to relicts from the time the palace was used by the royal family.
The collection reflects the depth and beauty of Jewish heritage and creativity as well as the aesthetic and stylistic influences of other cultures in places where Jews lived.
Discovered in 1916 on the San Sebastián Hill in Cochabamba by the geologist Federico Améstegui, who, during a walk with his children, found nearly 1000 pre-Hispanic gold pieces that had been exposed by a storm.
By 1924 the stock of the museum had increased to 52,000 objects and had received more than 250,000 visitors.
History Built between 1854 and 1857 as a Her Majesty’s Prison while the area was still a British colony, it was a replacement for a wooden prison nearby.
Among the items digitised, catalogued and made available online were 267 volumes of the Dawn and New Dawn magazines held in the AIATSIS collection.
The permanent exhibitions on the ground floor cover all pre-Columbian civilizations located on the current territory of Mexico as well as in former Mexican territory in what is today the southwestern United States.
Issued quarterly, it was published by James & James Science Publishers until 2007, when the publishing rights were purchased by Maney Publishing.
Felix Karrer became Secretary of the Wissenschaftlicher Club (Science Club) and founder of the Mineralogy collection of the department.
Today the collection is a strong survey of American history, with acknowledged masterpieces of painting, sculpture, furniture and decorative arts from the 18th century, 19th century, and 20th century, with contemporary American art in all media also being collected.
As a whole, the mosaics were laid out using the opus tessellatum (tiles aligned in horizontal or vertical lines) and opus vermiculatum (tiles aligned so as to draw an outline around the shapes) techniques.
The Gold Museum of Peru and Weapons of the World (Spanish: Museo Oro del Perú y Armas del Mundo), also known simply as the Gold Museum of Peru (Spanish: Museo Oro del Perú, MOdP) is a Peruvian archaeology and war museum located in the neighbourhood of Monterrico, Santiago de Surco, Lima.
History In the early 19th century, the archaeology of pre-Columbian Mexico emerged gradually alongside the more longstanding and prominent disciplines of classical archaeology, egyptology, and assyriology.
The Constanța History and Archaeology Museum (Romanian: Muzeul de Istorie Națională și Arheologie) is a museum located at 12 Piața Ovidiu, Constanța, Romania.
Other collections at the museum include indigenous textiles from the Guatemalan Highlands and monthly displays of modern art.
According to State media report, a total of 295,284 local and foreign travellers visited the Bagan Archaeological Museum in the 2018-2019 fiscal year.
Prehistory The longest period in the history of mankind, developing from times when the writing was still unknown.
Connected to scientific research – The connection between scientific research and any specific archaeological open-air museum is provided by the active role of a trained archaeologist among the staff or an archaeological counsellor belonging to an affiliated organisation.
For example, above a gallery of ancient Anatolian jugs is the verse "Behold, Rebecca came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto the fountain and drew water" (Genesis 24:45).
Sculpture Painting See also List of museums in Switzerland References External links Official website 3D Google Earth model of museum complex
On May 20, 1874, they began their long retreat to the south, transporting their equipment and provisions on sleds and boats.
Among its other exhibits are dinosaur fossils, human skeletal remains, ancient musical instruments, pottery, and Buddha images.
The courtyard led to the rooms of the eastern wing, including a preserved bathroom with a simple mosaic floor, also devoid of figures, likely preceding access to two hidden mikvehs (ritual baths).
The Farouk Corner Museum or the Royal Rest House of King Farouk is located in Helwan, about 30 km from Cairo, Egypt.
It has two branches in Shengavit and Karmir Blur with 5,288 and 1,620 exhibits respectively in stock.
Vase from Curucuitz This item (catalogue number PSPA-625) is a ceramic vase excavated from the ruins of Curucuitz.
The collection primarily derives from the estate of the German-American Assyriologist and archaeologist Hermann Volrath Hilprecht.
Assessments of the museum vary, with one considering it "a national treasure and a symbol of identity.
The Herzegovina Museum (Bosnian: Muzej Hercegovine) is a museum in Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina containing items associated with the history of the area.
This section is followed by galleries exhibiting a large group of paintings by the Venetian Francesco Guardi, 18th and 19th century English paintings, and finally a superb collection of jewels and glass by René Lalique, displayed in its own room.
Unfortunately, a fire at the Alcázar of Madrid in 1734 destroyed the American collections that the kings of Spain had been building, which included the pieces offered to the Crown by the conquistadors.
Two decades later, in 1913, the museum has been moved into the new built Culture Palace, along with the philharmonic and town library.
Subsequently, the world's most important Pre-Columbian collection in private hands (according to El País) was split and auctioned at Southeby's on 22 March 2013.
It is in a two-story building made of reinforced concrete and accessed through a vault-style entrance.
Dar Al-Arkan Real Estate (DAAR) have been commissioned to develop the area on 11 October 2008 by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques.
A central position is occupied by the collection of Greek vases and sculptures and the Ancient Egyptian section.
Museum curator Anastas Angelov has criticised the construction, claiming that 90% of the building's weight is carried by the Roman ruins.
The information center offers access to resources of the collections as well as virtual tours in former exhibitions in order to broaden and deepen knowledge behind the objects in the wing's collections.
In 1953, he was appointed as a professor with a full teaching assignment for prehistory and early history, as well as director of the institute.
Many of them are exposed in a permanent exhibition with 57 extendable, illuminated drawers and 6 showcases, offering a significant insight into the world of the ancient Near East, out of which the Bible emerged.
The Hilprecht Collection (also known as the Cuneiform Collection), is a private collection of archaeological artifacts from Western Asia housed at the Institute for Languages and Cultures of the Near East at the Friedrich Schiller University Jena.
Fujairah Museum is an archaeology and local history museum located in Fujairah City, Emirate of Fujairah, United Arab Emirates.
The Queensland Museum's program of returning and reburying ancestral remains which had been collected by the museum between 1870 and 1970 has been under way since the 1970s.
The land upon which the museum was built was donated in 1998, and had originally been used for the first seat of the municipal council.
In 2000, Monica Lavi replaced Smadar Tirosh and the magazine’s name was changed to Muza (Hebrew for "muse") which ceased publication in 2001.
The Museum of Cham Sculpture (Vietnamese: Bảo tàng Điêu khắc Chăm) is a museum located in Hải Châu District, Đà Nẵng, central Vietnam, near the Han River.
Larco Hoyle agreed with his uncle and proceeded to create a museum that would carry on his father's legacy.
The museum exhibits a range of architectural items, including marble slabs (sema), ancient bas reliefs, stuccoes and ancient tools.
Foundation and history The Tétouan Archaeological Museum was established in 1939 as a step towards preserving the cultural and historical heritage of the region.
But later on due to lack of facilities, Paranavithana constantly insisted on the necessity of establishing the museum in a new place.
In 1849, the museum moved into a large neoclassical edifice designed by Melchior Berri and located on the Münster hill at the heart of Basel, on the site of a former Augustinian monastery.
Overview The museum has permanent exhibits of local archaeological finds and on the traditional way of life historically in Fujairah in particular and the UAE in general.
See also Museums in Basel List of museums in Switzerland References External links Museum of Cultures Basel Basel museums website
Ancient Peruvian cultures represented their daily lives in ceramics, and this gallery holds the world's largest collection of erotic ceramics.
History On 9 September 1919, the National Assembly of Armenia founded the History Museum of Armenia.
Collection The López Museum and Library is dedicated to housing artworks by reputed Filipino artists such as Juan Luna, and Felix Resurreccion Hidalgo, memorabilia relating to Filipino national hero Jose Rizal and Filipiniana materials and publications.
The museums contain roughly 70,000 works, of which 20,000 are on display, and currently employ 640 people who work in 40 different administrative, scholarly, and restoration departments.
Collections The museum's collections were from Archaeological discoveries since 1968 in the emirate of Ras Al Khaimah, partially donated by city residents and the Quwasim family.
The old building of the museum was demolished, and during five years new building of the museum was built.
The oil agreement with the Standard Oil Company of California was signed by Abdullah Suleiman on behalf of Saudi Arabia and Lloyd N.
The gold room preserves valuable objects made of this metal, such as pectoral diadems, ear ornaments, blanket ornaments, and clothing, attributed to the Inca culture.
The highlight of the Kerma Museum are seven black granite statues uncovered in a ditch at the nearby site of Dukki Gel in 2003 by an archaeological team headed by Charles Bonnet.
Native title research AIATSIS began undertaking native title research activities through the Native Title Research Unit in 1993, following the 1992 Mabo v Queensland High Court decision.
This section of the museum was opened on 22 April 1981, displaying a political biography of Bijedić.
Important attention is being paid to participation in cultural, scientific and educational establishments and associations, with particular emphasis on cooperation with Slovenian institutions abroad and Italian and Croatian institutions in Istria and Dalmatia.
The Larco Museum (officially known as Rafael Larco Herrera Archaeological Museum, in Spanish: Museo Arqueológico Rafael Larco Herrera) is a privately owned museum of pre-Columbian art, located in the Pueblo Libre District of Lima, Peru.
On the first floor the visitor was to be guided from the "most simple" through to the "most consummate evolutionary animals".
The National Archaeological Museum Aruba (Papiamento: Museo Arqueologico Nacional Aruba) is an archaeological museum in the city of Oranjestad in Aruba.
In 2005, the MAAM expanded its holdings with the donation of the Teruel collection, composed of various objects and skeletal remains discovered on the finca of the Teruel family of Salta in the department of San Carlos in the 1980s.
King Farouk took care to furnish his rest house with luxurious and high-quality items to emulate the possessions of kings.
Greek Cross Gallery (Sala a Croce Greca): with the porphyry sarcophagi of Constance and Saint Helena, daughter and mother of Constantine the Great.
History Though the museum was established by Yeghishe Hovsepyan, its long-time director Albert Matinyan and the Honored Artist of Armenia Hovhannes Sharambeyan made every effort to make it treasury of archaeological items and works of art.
the vase has been dated to the Late Classic and is of the Paixban variety of the Paixban Ante Polychrome ceramic type, belonging to the Zacatal-Joyac ceramic group.
The Iron Gates Region Museum (Romanian: Muzeul Regiunii Porţilor de Fier) is a museum in Drobeta-Turnu Severin, Romania.
The museum has become a major cultural venue for the inhabitants of Kerma, who value its role in enhancing Nubian history and contributing to the region's development.
Pannonia Reformata Museum, Pápa, one mummy – a middle-aged man buried in a coffin usurped from Hori, a priest who lived during the 20th Dynasty.
The beginnings of the museum date back to 1859 with the foundation of the Society of the Transylvanian Museum, featuring collections of antiquities and botanical, zoological and mineralogical specimens.
See also MOA Museum of Art - An art museum that collects and exhibits the collection of Mokichi Okada.
Despite many sacrifices and great danger, the scientists returned to Vienna with both their invaluable travel journals and observations of the landscape, as well as a number of natural history items of interest welded into metal cases.
The museum contains antique weapons and antiquities found in the Emirate of Ras Al Khaimah, in addition the museum will have a special room dedicated to silverware containing a collection of silver adornments.
History and the building The Museum is in the historic Khuzam Palace in the Al-Nuzlah al-Yamaniyah quarter in the south of Jeddah.
The former building of the museum was built in 1926 as a hotel, later used as a hospital and afterwards again was used as a hotel.
In 1977, Karl Peschel succeeded him as head of the Department of Prehistory and Early History, and in 1979, he was appointed university lecturer.
New location and funding On March 30, 1956, the National Museum moved into a new cemented structure, created by architect Jean-Loup Pivin from traditional Malian designs.
Two brothers, Arathoon (2 July 1864), followed by Simon (5 December 1867), served as Deputy Registrar of the Hackney Carriages Department.
Most have the mechanism set in the ground under the flowerbed, which is then planted to visually appear as a clock face with moving hands which may also hold bedding plants.
Bataille's works are held in the collections of the Lille Métropole Museum of Modern, Contemporary and Outsider Art and the Collection de l'art brut in Lausanne, Switzerland.
An additional candle is lit on each subsequent Sunday until, by the last Sunday of Advent, all four candles are lit.
Western interpretations A key distinction between Eastern and Western floral symbolism lies in the selection of flowers, which varies across cultures and complicates the idea of a universal floral language.
History The history of chabana follows hand-in-hand with the history of chadō, and within that historical milieu, chabana emerged in tandem with the rise of wabi-cha around the Momoyama period.
Phyllis regained consciousness on 11 April, but suffered from amnesia and paralysis on one side of her body.
Biography A native of Dragør, Denmark, Bergmann first began his interest in flowers as a child by making Christmas wreaths with friends.
Research and markets has estimated that the cut flower global market will reach a size of US$50.1 billion by 2030 from its current estimate of US$33.3 billion for 2022.
In 2009 she was employed by Department for Presidential Affairs of the Russian Federation in Northwestern Federal District as floral designer.
HCDA reported provisional statistics in 2015 that Kshs 62.9 billion was earned by the Kenyan cut flower industry.
It has been sued several times by the United States Department of Justice to ensure it does not engage in non-competitive behavior, namely prohibiting members from affiliating with competing flowers-by-wire services.
She created small embroideries with the character of paintings, by sewing silk, cotton, and wool onto rectangular pieces of cardboard.
The foliage plants that are most tolerant of the human environment are the most successful houseplants in the floral industry.
He edited the material of the Royal Agri-Horticultural Society from 1904 to 1920, when this publication ceased.
Plenty of add-ons and special items help to achieve a better score and make the game more challenging.
Sprigs of pear blossoms were particularly well known, and during the winters, ever-green sprigs that would have enhanced celadon ware, or given a cool elegance to whiteware were used.
One of the two anarchist bookshops in Sydney is Black Rose Books which has existed in various guises since 1982.
He is the younger brother of Atelier Hinata's owner, though his interest in flowers is passing, at best.
He wished to spend the remainder of his life at Lucknow where the gardening traditions of his family began.
DFC currently houses around 19 tenants from 11 countries that offer a diverse range of products and varieties of cut flowers, plants, foliage, fruits and vegetables.
When the stalls in the newly renovated market were auctioned off, the exorbitant prices pushed some of the growers to form another organization, named the Boston Cooperative Market, which opened in the basement of the old Music Hall.
Dendrobium chrysanthum (Meitei: khongul melei) - sharing personal history before starting a relationship.
Description Moribana uses one or more clusters of arrangements in kenzan, a holder with many sharp points into which flowers are inserted, or shippo that has holes, to replicate how water plants grow and how creatures move around in natural ponds.
While Nachoms are a rich cultural tradition, their use has been declining due to modern influences and lifestyle changes.
By the 19th century, the area had only canals, with the main one, Canal de la Viga limited the water traffic through here.
William Pannill, a resident of Palm Beach, died at his summer home in Roaring Gap, North Carolina, on June 10, 2014, at the age of 87.
The arranged flowers may be placed in Western-style rooms and entranceways, not just in the tokonoma alcove found in traditional Japanese-style rooms.
Estimates have calculated an amount of 400 million stems exported from Guatemala and Belize to North America and Europe every year.
The $10,000 prize makes her flower the costliest marigold in the world, and the costliest flower in the world at the time.
The Invercargill Tragedy was a familicide that took place in Invercargill, New Zealand on 8 April 1908.
Vase life can be affected by pre-harvest factors, such as growing conditions or genetic makeup, or post-harvest factors, such as mechanical damage, bacteria or fungi.
Publications The Victorian Kitchen Garden Companion (BBC Books, UK, 1988) ISBN 978-0-563-20710-8 Harry Dodson's Practical Kitchen Garden (BBC Books, UK, 1992) ISBN 978-0-563-36357-6 External links Harry Dodson at IMDb Obituary - Harry James Dodson (The Independent) Harry Dodson on pest control.
Flowers in the market have since originated from beyond Trinidad Valley and the Cordilleras, in other flower farms nationwide like nearby Tagaytay, Batangas, and Laguna, to Davao and Cotabato south in Mindanao.
Holding or vase solutions, which treat flowers with a mixture of carbohydrates (generally sugar), plant growth regulators, germicides, ethylene inhibitors, mineral salts, and organic acids.
These plants are more difficult to ship long distance due to the weight plus the plant quarantine regulations may preclude shipment to other nations.
Introduction Formal flower arrangements were closely related to the development of the Korean tea ceremony, and suggestions have been made that these were often corner-of-the-room arrangements on small tables using a central vessel with most often a small branch and a small group of local flowers.
The Kai yü ts'ung k'ao holds the view that Lan was male, and having him dress as a woman in contemporary plays was a "highly ridiculous" error.
The rose was the symbol of the English Tudor dynasty, and the ten-petaled Tudor rose (termed a double rose) is associated with England.
Two separate resin elements are mixed in equal proportions and poured into a silicone mould, often in an ice cube shape, with the flower inserted.
In this story, Lan is called the Barefoot Immortal (the Barefoot Immortal is normally a different Taoist immortal from Lan), and achieved immortality with help from Sun Wukong, the monkey king.
This craft had its ups and downs and by the mid-twentieth century a considerable section of the Maltese population hardly knew of the existence of ganutell and only a few had mastered the various techniques of ganutell.
Sometimes Lan strung the money on a cord (Chinese coins having a hole in the middle for stringing), letting it drag on the ground while walking along, or waving it to the time of their song.
Lan's emblem is a basket of flowers, and so this immortal is considered the patron of florists and gardeners.
Construction timeline By the time redevelopment works started in 2015 (months behind schedule), the project's timeline had increased in scope and was expected to take 10 years.
In June 2019 FTD filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection while it restructures; all customer deliveries will continue in the meantime.
Nicolai Bergmann (born June 12, 1976) is a Tokyo-based Danish flower artist and designer best known for his flower boxes, a technique that started a trend in Japan.
The Department of the Environment had been dismembered in the 1980s, and one of the cuttings was Historic Royal Palaces, which found itself looking for ways of increasing revenue and attracting a larger audience.
Flowers worn on the ears can be given as gifts to others, but those on the braid or hair are considered personal and are not gifted.
Many types of flower frogs are art pieces with holes for flower stems and a container for holding water.
Im Wha-Kong of Ewha Woman's University in Seoul, who also makes her own ceramic wares, is considered one of the greatest living developers of this art, and hosts quarterly displays of flower arrangements.
As a consequence, the number coming forward to be examined dropped off significantly, and the pass rate amongst those who did fell also.
The profession has mostly died out in countries like the United Kingdom, but still exists in others such as India.
Taiyou coined the name "Black Kirihara" after mistaking Sono's younger brother for him, noting their opposing personalities.
A flurry of patents followed the metal flower frog popularity, all claiming to save the housewife time and allow her to quickly and creatively arrange flowers.
During an intensive period of training and raising awareness, CONAP (aided by Rainforest Alliance) was able to communicate these standards to rural communities in the Mayan Biosphere Reserve which occupies much of northern Guatemala.
Recognizing her value, the State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Croatia employed her in Slunj as an agronomist.
Between 1987 and 1988, Ramsay was a member of the Picot task force, established by the New Zealand government to examine the school system with a mandate to examine management structures and cost-effectiveness.
The word ganutell is derived from the Italian cannotiglio and in fact this craft, which can also be considered to be an art, was "imported" to Malta during the eighteenth century from mainland Europe.
In 1937, King George VI and Queen Elizabeth celebrated their Coronation Year, and an Empire Exhibition was staged to mark the occasion.
Since the late 1950s, Dangwa Tranco passenger coaches have been bringing fresh flowers from Baguio City and other parts of the Cordilleras down to Manila.
The first mechanism using salvaged parts from Elie Parish Church in Fife was installed by James Ritchie & Son.
With three categories, it is one of the largest events of its kind in the region by both scale and content.
The market offers about 5,000 types of flowers and plants, mostly foreign, but there is a number of native Mexican species available, including some gathered directly from the wild.
In 1964, an Advent crown, made at home from wire coathangers and tinsel, appeared on the BBC's bi-weekly children's TV program Blue Peter.
The language of colors Floral symbolism originated in Asia and the Middle East, where certain flowers, such as the lotus, were considered sacred or at least associated with spiritual themes.
Other notable gardens included the HESCO Garden by Leeds City Council, who reconstructed an impressive and idyllic working water wheel in the grounds of the Royal Hospital.
A large civilian shelter beneath the market suffered a direct hit by a 50 kg bomb on the night of Saturday, 7 September 1940, at the height of The Blitz.
Oshibana (押し花) is the art of using pressed flowers and other botanical materials to create an entire picture from these natural elements.
Though finally achieving her goal of becoming the leader of the Social Credit party, McCarthy struggled as leader.
This also provided the opportunity for Covent Garden and Spitalfields traders to sell their stock left over from Saturday.
Ancient China The Chinese were making flower arrangements as far back as 207 BCE to 220 CE, in the Han era of ancient China.
He did not claim to be a Victorian gardener himself, but he had learned his trade from men who had been, and he understood the techniques they had developed.
Some, such as the Japanese kenzan, are utilitarian metal devices that fit into a vase or bowl and fix the stems by metal needles.
The England national rugby union team and Rugby Football Union adopted the red rose as their symbol in 1871, and the rose has appeared on players' kit ever since.
Bunjinbana (文人花, "literati flowers") is a style of ikebana that is inspired by traditional Chinese landscapes.
For continuous elements such as the facades of buildings and skies, the area is filled with flat colour, while elements like roofs and windows are given firm outlines.
In 2004, Axel Köhler and Tim Trench produced a documentary film called Xateros about these commercial palm leaf collectors in Chiapas' Lacandon Jungle for the Proyecto Videoastas Indigenas de la Frontera Sur.
The show as it appears today was started in 1986 as the San Francisco Landscape Garden Show by volunteers for the Friends of Recreation and Parks in San Francisco as a fundraiser for that organization (in 2006 the organization's name changed to San Francisco Parks Trust).
The 2011 show also saw the introduction of the new Artisan garden category, which was created for designers who use natural materials.
Josephine, Agnes Joaquim's grandniece, also has an orchid named after her, the Vanda 'Josephine' (also known as Vanda Miss Joaquim 'Josephine').
1950s Cave was one of the leading players in Central Districts' inaugural season in the Plunket Shield in 1950–51, when they finished second.
But the two historic, major markets built the strong foundation of trust and quality through tenant-wholesalers who have supplied and shipped fresh flowers to customers across America for almost 100 years.
One reason for this is that most of the plant sellers here do not know the taxonomy of the native plants.
Academic career Ramsay studied at Victoria University of Wellington, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree, as well as a Diploma of Education and a Diploma of Teaching from Wellington Teachers' College.
References External links Media related to Harry Cave at Wikimedia Commons Cave, Henry Butler at DNZB Harry Cave at ESPNcricinfo
In March 1956 he played a major part in New Zealand's first victory in Test cricket when he took eight wickets in the final match of the series against West Indies.
The Black Rose was the title of a respected journal of anarchist ideas published in the Boston area during the 1970s, as well as the name of an anarchist lecture series addressed by notable anarchist and libertarian socialists (including Murray Bookchin and Noam Chomsky) into the 1990s.
He had intended to line the Abbey with trees in blossom but since the season was not favourable, he switched to field maples.
The market was opened to all imported products in 1965 after the board of directors approved a petition by one of the wholesalers.
The judge ruled that in general everyone has a right to wear any flower as suits their taste, but when socialists as a group wear red rosebuds, it becomes a party emblem.
In the early 1980s the rock ‘n roll impresario Bill Graham produced two annual flower shows at the Cow Palace.
The Society did not want to see a situation develop where its standards were eroded, and entered into negotiations with NPTC City and Guilds to write recognised qualifications at Higher Education level to replace the well-recognised and valued ICSF and NDSF.
Redevelopment By 2005, the buildings were beginning to show signs of their age, in need of modernising.
In this form, the primary stem is about as long as the diameter and depth of the container combined, with the secondary stem being around two-thirds and the ornamental stem about half the length of the primary branch.
They tend to feature: Large chrysanthemums Single chrysanthemum grown from one seedling Three-tailoring - a technique of pinching one seedling and branching it into three.
We want guests to be moved and delighted and to be changed, in some small way, by these gardens and the ideas behind them.
Sharon Reece noted in The Press in 2014 that references to the event disappeared a month after it happened, with it being largely forgotten in the modern day.
In Vander Zalm's initial cabinet, she was named Deputy Premier of British Columbia and Minister of Economic Development.
The culture of flower and fruit parades in the Netherlands is inscribed with the International Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity of Unesco.
Early life Born in Singapore, Hovakimian was the eldest daughter and second child of Parsick (Basil) Joaquim, an Armenian merchant and commercial agent, and Urelia Joaquim.
" A shopper's guide to the Original L.A Flower Market." Time Pot los Angeles The Original Los Angeles Flower Market.
See also Robot Rescue Ball Fighter 1001 Crystal Mazes Collection Super Swap 101 Shark Pets References External links Florist Shop's site at Teyon.com Archived 2010-10-22 at the Wayback Machine
A bough pot is a vessel for holding stems of flowers and branches to decorate an interior, especially a fireplace during summer.
Choice of materials and how much water shows in front, side, or back reflects the passing of the season.
Over the past 300+ years, plant fanciers have found these plants in tropical and subtropical areas, found they were relatively easy to propagate and found they could survive in the human environment.
When flowers start to wilt, a player can use a watering can or a sprinkler to improve their condition and prepare more valuable bouquets.
Pierre Louis Victor Lemoine (October 21, 1823 in Delme, Moselle - December 11, 1911) was a celebrated and prolific French flower breeder who, among other accomplishments, created many of today's lilac varieties.
Emerging untainted from muddy waters, the lotus embodies the idea of transcending impurities, a concept deeply rooted in Buddhist philosophy.
The PvdA version was first used in 1976–1977 by the party and El Socialista newspaper, before Cruz Novillo's version was released in time for the June 1977 general election campaign.
In November 2013, United Online spun off its floral delivery subsidiary, FTD, which became a separate NASDAQ-traded company called FTD Companies, Inc., under the symbol FTD.
If the seeds and barbs are of a different colour, then the rose is barbed and seeded of that/those tinctures.
The traditional ballad "The Rose of England" (Child 166) recounts the seizure of the crown by Earl of Richmond (who became Henry VII of England, the founder of the Tudor dynasty), using the "red rose" as an allegory for Henry.
The double Tudor rose is always depicted as white on red on a field of any other tincture and is always termed 'proper'.
and moved to Mountain View, California in 1961, where he apprenticed in growing chrysanthemums (the national flower of Japan).
It developed from the Bunjinga (文人画 "literati painting") movement among different Japanese artists of the late Edo period, who however all shared an admiration for traditional Chinese culture and paintings.
The BFA is involved with organising national competitions, and works closely with World Skills UK and the Royal Horticultural Society on presenting the profession to the public through it exhibitions and presentations.
After the Socreds returned to power in the 1975 election, McCarthy became a senior cabinet minister, serving in a variety of portfolios, under Premier Bill Bennett.
Dubai Flower Centre was developed to handle flower imports and exports, as Dubai is a major hub for the import and export of flowers and the airport required a specialist facility since these products need special conditions.
In 1945 she published her first book, Technical Floristry, believed to be the first textbook for professional florists written in the United States.
He has also developed a beautiful pyramidal headed Hollyhock from a presumed cross between Alcea rosea and Malva sylvestris.
The organisation maintains a list of registered BFA business members on the website, who agree to uphold a code of conduct.
Roses also feature prominently in the arms of the princely House of Lippe and on the seal of Martin Luther.
Towards the end of the twentieth century, the Education Division offered evening courses in ganutell and the craft started on its way to recovery.
More than 50 vendors provide floral industry professionals and the general public with exotic blooms from all corners of the earth.
Network SouthEast was pleased, saying "70 per cent of the estimated 300,000 visitors used rail and that has paid for our sponsorship many times over".
The scale and variety of product at the Flower Exchange has changed since the 1960s as the flower industry was one of the first to feel the effects of globalization.
Connolly was later commissioned to make a copy of his wedding bouquet in artificial flowers to be exhibited alongside Camilla's wedding dress at the Victoria and Albert Museum.
From a field of forty contenders, the Vanda Miss Joaquim was selected as the national flower of Singapore.
Flowers The flowers commonly called black roses do not really exist in said color, instead they actually have a dark shade, such as the "Black Magic", "Barkarole", "Black Beauty" and "Baccara" varieties.
Pressed Flower Craft Guild In the UK, the Pressed Flower Craft Guild was established in 1983 by Joyce Fenton (a pressed flower artist) and Bill Edwardes (who devised the method of framing pressed flower pictures adopted by the guild).
Similar to her aunt, she was not addressed with the title månglare (which was her official and formal profession), but as a fruit merchant.
The enduring interest and demand for cut flowers and plants were introduced to the East End by Huguenot immigrants (driven from France after 1685 by the revocation of the Edict of Nantes), together with a fascination for caged songbirds – the pub at the end of the market is called The Birdcage.
In later years, he would say that this period was the most influential of all his learning experiences.
The building served as the nexus of Chicago's floral industry until the 1950s, when the industry largely left Chicago for warmer regions of the country.
As well as flowers, the show includes other attractions such as cookery demonstrations, gala dinners, music and horse riding displays.
After receiving a degree in psychology from the University of Ulster, Connolly moved to London in the late 1980s to work for the Ministry of Defence.
That would take up the top 12 stories and the rest would be for office space, retail space, wholesale market space and restaurants.
Interflora is a flower delivery network, associated with over 58,000 affiliated flower shops in over 140 countries.
The market’s growth during the Marcos era was also due to then-First Lady Imelda Marcos and her lavish lifestyle.
History For many years the capital's main wholesale market for fruit and vegetables was at Covent Garden in central London, just as the meat market was at Smithfield, fish at Billingsgate and other food at Leadenhall Market.
Before winning her prize, Vonk received $100 from Burpee seeds the previous year along with five other gardeners for having seeds that produced close to white flowers.
The handling capacity of the centre is anticipated to exceed 300,000 metric tonnes of product throughput per annum.
They are typically ceramic, and have a body to hold water, with a number of small openings for the stems in the top.
When the flower was adopted for the Imperial Seal of Japan some families also cultivated it to signal their support and good relationship with the Imperial family.
(July 11, 1865 – January 15, 1933) was an American professional player of carom billiards in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
These outlets offer a limited selection, usually in the form of mixed bouquets and roses by the dozen.
He afterwards received a number of commissions from the Prince of Wales (the future Charles III), including for his 2005 marriage to Camilla Parker Bowles.
Owe Sandström also introduced the opening number and show feature of Stockholm International Horse Show at the Globen.
Career Percy-Lancaster's father, Percy Joseph Lancaster, was a banker and a talented amateur gardener, who went on to become the secretary of the Agri Horticultural Society of India in Calcutta, India.
In 1947 he was appointed head gardener at the Chilton Estate, near Chilton Foliat, growing flowers and vegetables for the household in an extensive walled garden, with heated greenhouses and 200 yards of cloches.
In 1998 at age 63, Matsui switched to Orchids when stiff competition from other countries arose in traditional flowers.
Chabana, however, refers specifically to the flower display in the room or space for chadō, and though it fundamentally is a form of ikebana, it comprises a genre unto its own.
The development of Ikebana and Hanakotoba (the language of flowers) in Japan is deeply intertwined with religious and philosophical traditions, particularly Shinto and Buddhism.
Polak was in charge of the network of the resistance movement gardens stretching from Banija to Istria, Croatian Littoral, and northern Dalmatia; she founded about 100 such gardens.
Wagner Archives at New York University states that the rose "has always been an important symbol with anti-authoritarian associations." The rose is used to show the end after the means, meaning "lay a rose on the grave".
The term nosegay arose in fifteenth century Middle English as a combination of nose and gay (the latter then meaning "ornament").
Flower parades are held in several countries, many of which celebrate the forthcoming of the seasons.
During the late 1930s, she worked for well-known florists Irene Hayes (at her Flower Store on Park Avenue, New York), and Constance Spry (helping organize Spry's lecture tour in the United States, and arrangements for Spry's New York flower shop).
Baroque (1600–1775) At the beginning of this period floral designs were symmetrical and oval-shaped, with asymmetric crescents and S-shapes becoming popular later on.
Her aunt was a registered månglare and sold fruit, but her business had expanded beyond what was expected of a månglare.
Following the collapse of the Paris Commune, German Chancellor Bismarck out of fear of the growing strength of the socialists in Germany had parliament pass the Anti-Socialist laws to suppress the activities of the Social Democratic Party.
After initial dismissal, the organizers indicated they would welcome RHS involvement from 1992, and RHS members were granted a reduced admission price at the 1991 show.
From the late 1980s, it was less frequently used on election posters, and reserved to communication aimed at party members; the rose was increasingly used and mentioned alone, avoiding the revolutionary reference of the fist, and the PS was often nicknamed "the rose party".
See also Advent calendar Chrismon tree Christingle Daily devotional References External links Advent wreath FAQ at the Lutheran Missouri Synod web site Advent hymns including two examples of Advent Wreath carols Advent Bible Themes
The floristry business has a significant market in the corporate and social event world, as flowers play a large part in the decor of special events and meetings.
The Society of Floristry Limited was formed in 1951 to meet the growing need for professional recognition for florists in the UK.
The show consists of three main components: approximately 15 display gardens ranging from 500 to 1,500 sq.
In the latter stage, the candidate prepares 5 floral designs, which are graded according to artistic and technical criteria specified in the AIFD Guide to Floral Design.
In 2008, Ramsay was awarded the gold medal of the American Daffodil Society, and in 2013 he won the Peter Barr Cup from the Royal Horticultural Society, for contributions to the advancement and enjoyment of daffodils.
'flower ear sprout'), is a traditional small bouquet or posy worn by Meitei women in Manipur, a state in Northeast India.
Eventually, both markets relocated to larger quarters in the 700 block of South Wall Street in Los Angeles, where they operate today as the core of the country's largest flower district.
He is also a teacher, having taught at the Spånga Gymnasium in Stockholm, where he specializes in nature and tropical animals.
Early years Lemoine was born to a family of skilled gardeners in Delme, Lorraine, France on October 21, 1823.
The word Panagbenga means "the season of blooming", the parade features flowers that celebrate the city of Baugio's spirit and dancers with flower decorated costumes.
Today it is known not only in Malta but interest has been shown from a number of European countries, North and South America and also in Japan.
Gallery References External links Southport Flower Show official website Media related to Southport Flower Show at Wikimedia Commons
The tour report in Wisden described his bowling as "always steady and reliable", but on the good batting pitches of the season he took only four wickets from 141 overs in the Tests at an average of 116.25.
In 2009, Salmon Bay moved the show to the San Mateo Event Center and announced it was closing the show.
As in classical match-3 games, a player’s task is to switch neighbouring elements (here: flowers) to match a line of the same type.
The only flower clock with two faces moved by the same system is located in Zacatlán, Puebla, Mexico.
They are often mounted on special paper, such as handmade paper, Ingres paper, Japanese paper, or paper decorated by marbling.
This tourist attraction showcases more than 120 varieties of tulips on a 55-acre farm in the Dandenong Ranges.
Karl Owe Sandström (born September 28, 1944) is a Swedish clothing designer, zoologist, safari leader, flamenco dancer, restaurateur, and florist.
See also List of development projects in Dubai References Air Freight Cargo External links UAEfreezones.com Emiratesfreezone.com Dubaicity.com Dubaifreezonesuae.com Flowersgrowing.com ofsae.com https://www.rosecharmflowers.ae/
Repeating his father's cross between Cooperia and Zephyranthes, he obtained a large number of colour variations in the ensuing hybrids named Cooperanthes.
Membership The American Institute of Floral Designers offers two designations to candidates who have demonstrated advanced professional ability of floral artistry: AIFD (Accredited in Floral Design) and CFD (Certified Floral Designer).
Exceptions to this are Coryphantha elephantidens, Nymphaea odorata, Tillandsia imperialis, Campyloneurum phyllitidis, Cupressus lusitanic and Barkeria scandens.
The increasing demand in the UK market especially on mixed bouquets encouraged more direct sales from Kenya, in contrast to the conventional auction system.
They have responded by dividing their concession area into harvest zones which allow for a 4 month fallow period.
Southport Flower Show, held at Victoria Park in Southport, is the largest independent flower show in the United Kingdom.
In recent years, a youth division was added to the pressed flower category, with the most recent winner being Kendall Wolson, a 17-year-old student from New Jersey who created a scene depicting two bears catching fish in a river.
Armed with floral dictionaries, Victorians often exchanged small "talking bouquets" or "word poesy,” called nosegays or tussie-mussies, which could be worn or carried as a fashion accessory.
They are metal alumino silicates which have a crystalline structure consisting of an assembly of tetrahedral.
To maintain membership, accredited designers are required to document continuing education in the field.
As McLean and Matheson entered the parents' bedroom, Elizabeth briefly woke, asking "what has happened?" before falling unconscious.
Patricia Easterbrook Roberts (March 17, 1910 – December 27, 1987) was an Australian-born floral designer, author, and landscape designer who worked in Australia, England and the United States.
James Reid Baxter killed his wife and five children with an iron stove scraper before shooting himself in the head with a shotgun.
History On August 18, 1910, at the Seneca Hotel in Rochester, New York at a Retail Delivery Association meeting, thirteen American florists led by John Valentine, a Denver lawyer and floral company owner agreed to serve each other's out-of-town customers by exchanging orders via telegraph.
Tatsuki Suwa Suwa is Taiyou's best friend from grade school and incidentally also a resident at Kazami Dorm.
The flowers are carefully removed from the shipment boxes and placed into low pH water in clean buckets to begin hydration.
However, this technique is not effective when foliage has already begun to display autumnal coloration.
The Flower Market, which offers flowers, plants, foliages, sundries and interior decorations from the UK and from around the globe, is visited by 75% of florists in London, many of whom place morning orders and return to restock during the day.
There are several activities to participate or watch in such as; The Flower Festival Queen, prize blooms on display, and landscaping projects.
FTD Incorporated retained FTD's businesses, including the Mercury Network and the clearinghouse, and controlled FTD Association's rules, regulations, and bylaws.
Bataille's works are held in the collections of the Lille Métropole Museum of Modern, Contemporary and Outsider Art and the Collection de l'art brut.
The månglare-permit was granted by the city authorities to people (foremost married women) who could argue that they needed to support themselves, and there where regulations to prevent a månglare from expanding their business beyond what was needed for self support.
As an inventor (1892–97) While Spinks was a world-class player, his lasting contributions to cue sports were the innovations he brought to the game and the industry resulting from his fascination with the abrasives used by players on the leather tips of their cue sticks.
A popular part of the show floor is the Garden marketplace where visitors can buy plants and seeds, cut flowers, craft items, and other flower, landscaping and horticulture-related items.
The Watertown Depot in Watertown, Wisconsin, United States, is a railroad depot built in 1903 and operated by the Chicago and North Western Railway and the Milwaukee Road.
This is agricultural land on which strawberries are grown under lease, which generates about $500,000 in annual income, and expires in 2019.
It operates two main businesses: The Consumer Business sells flowers and gift items through its websites and The Floral Business sells computer services, software and even fresh cut flowers to FTD and Interflora affiliated florists.
In 1953 the name changed to Interflora and the slogan Flowers Worldwide along with the Mercury Man roundel became well known.
However, the planning and advice the Council provided for the reform failed to meet the timetable set by the EU to result in penalty money on the industry.
Ceylon ironwood (Meitei: nageshor) - strong, single, and self-sustained woman uninterested in romantic affairs.
The British Florist Association (BFA) is the industry trade group that represents the British flower retail trade.
In 2010, Bergmann founded the flower themed Nomu Café in Omotesando In 2017, Bergmann introduced a line of jewelry called "Natur", which seeks inspiration from floral arrangements.
Vonk kept seeds from the lightest flowers in her garden each season, replanting for over two decades before achieving a pure white marigold that measured 2.5 inches in diameter.
He went on to win the Pannill Award on three occasions: 1998 for his Homestead hybrid New Penny daffodil, 2003 for his River Queen hybrid daffodil, and 2006 for his New Penny hybrid.
A player has to connect at least 3 identical flowers vertically or horizontally to make them disappear from the board.
Spinks was active in the growers' community, and in 1922 hosted a large regional farm bureau meeting of avocado farmers at his ranch-land "mountain estate".
Between 1970 and 1974, he served on the NZEI's Waikato branch committee, and was a member of the national executive between 1975 and 1981.
In an attempt to improve his hold on power, Bennett promised that any woman elected to the legislature while he was in power would become a member of his Cabinet.
In the original Interflora Directory, used by members, the longest established members could be recognised by their telegraphic addresses.
Gallery References External links Philadelphia International Flower Show official site Pennsylvania Horticultural Society
Historical background As early as the 16th century, samurai were said to have created oshibana as one of their disciplines to promote patience, harmony with nature and powers of concentration.
A floral clock, or flower clock, is a large decorative clock with the clock face formed by carpet bedding, usually found in a park or other public recreation area.
It was originally started in 1924 by the local council, but since 1986 has been operated by Southport Flower Show company, which is a registered charity.
In February 2016 Alexandra created a floral dress with a 30 meters long train and presented it on a ball in Saint Petersburg Philharmonia.
2016 – A display of 300,000 individually crocheted poppies, covering nearly 2,000 m2 (22,000 sq ft), designed by Phillip Johnson and made by over 50,000 contributors.
In 1854 Lemoine produced the first double Potentilla (Gloire de Nancy), and the first Streptocarpus hybrids.
While her brother Leo was shot the same year, Polak survived and procured a part-time job at the School of Gardening in Božjakovina in 1943.
The large house had been commandeered by the Admiralty and Dodson's task was to grow enough food for several hundred people every day.
(in English, Flower Growers Association of Villa Guerrero A.C.) internationally recognized by its acronym ASFLORVI, had a record of more than 700 flower grower members in 2019, making it the biggest flower grower association of Mexico.
Haemig's research also indicates that the custom did not reach the United States until the 1930s, even among German Lutheran immigrants.
These arrangements consisted of vessels and pots, The term "bough pot" was a colloquial term and came to mean the pots that were used for decorating the fireplace.
Pulsing, where flowers are treated with increasing concentrations of sucrose for 16–20 hours at a time.
They knew of the Florists Telegraph Delivery Association (now known as Florists' Transworld Delivery) which had existed in the US since 1910, and applied to join as foreign members.
Small bouquets or "tussie-mussies" might include chamomile flowers, which a woman might send to a romantic interest to tell him "patience"; goldenseal represented indecision.
The 1920s series of British Squibs films were constructed around the adventures of a London "flower girl" played by Betty Balfour.
He had match figures of 40.4–26–43–8, and took the wicket to end the match when he had Alf Valentine stumped by Sammy Guillen.
in size, educational displays, vendors promoting and selling garden-related products, and free seminars.
Black Rose Anarchist Federation is a political organization that was founded in 2014, with a few local and regional groups in the United States.
It is the UK member of Florint, the European Federation of Professional Florists Associations, which is based in Veenendaal, Utrecht in the Netherlands.
His pretty and gentle features often mislead other boys into initially believing he is a girl, something used as a constant source of humour in the series.
However, many herbaceous perennials have been selected from the southern US flora since 1990, so perennials are a significant group of the floral industry.
The imagery inspired Ola Enstad’s controversial 4,8m public sculpture Neve med rose (Fist With Rose, 1991), located in the Lilletorget square in Oslo.
Laser-cut steel silhouettes of the Queen were featured, surrounded by 70 planted terracotta pots planted with lily of the valley, the Queen's favourite flower.
Other floral clocks can be seen in the International Peace Garden on the border between North Dakota and Manitoba, Rockford, Illinois and in Frankfort, Kentucky.
It is intended to both heighten and deepen the atmosphere of the tea gathering as called for by the occasion.
He was a former president of both the American Daffodil Society and the American Horticultural Society.
In Japanese bamboo weaving, a flower basket is used in ikebana and sometimes also used in Japanese tea ceremony.
Charlotta Christina Boberg (1816-1898), was a Swedish businesswoman who sold fruit and flowers as a månglare.
In the past, this area was on the eastern edge of the Aztec island city of Tenochtitlan, facing Lake Xochimilco.
Through the career she decorated Constantine Palace, Mikhailovsky Palace, Tavrichesky Palace, the Vladimir Palace, Nicholas Palace, Yusupov Palace and the Pavilion of Roses in Pavlovsk Park.
Flowers are sent to express love, celebrate special occasions, offer condolences, and more During the COVID-19 pandemic of 2020-2021, floristry became an even more important means of communicating with loved ones from a distance.
1900s: World-class competitor Spinks was still considered a newsworthy contender over a decade later, for the World 18.2 Balkline Championship of 1909, being enumerated in "a fine list of entries" anticipated for the March event.
The nearest London Underground stations are Battersea Power Station and Nine Elms, both opened in 2021 as part of the Northern line extension to Battersea.
It was moved to Sunday, by act of Parliament, in order to accommodate the needs of local Jewish traders.
His MA thesis, supervised by Ian McLaren and completed in 1969, was titled Planning, policy, and practice in Maori education, 1936–1968, and examined some of the reasons for the relative underachievement of Māori in education at that time as identified by the Hunn Report.
He next moved to Ghent, Belgium, where he spent time furthering his horticultural studies with Louis van Houtte.
Stylistic traits Chabana comes with minimal rules and appeals to those who prefer a simple, natural look in their creation.
He was unhappy with his work and met a florist; he found enjoyment in assisting the florist at weekends and on his holidays.
See also Moribana Senchadō References External links Media related to Bunjinbana at Wikimedia Commons
His father was considered a pioneer of Martinsville's textile industry, opening the Pannill Knitting Co.
In 1851 Butz Flowers opened its doors in New Castle, Pennsylvania, and is still operating today as one of the oldest floristry shops in the United States.
A copy of the postcard will be mounted next to the exhibit." Entrants for that class typically have a mockup of the niche at home, where they practice assembling and lighting their entry in the months preceding the show.
Polak was one of the founders of the Horticultural Association of Croatia and of the interdisciplinary postgraduate program of landscape architecture.
(This is the origin of the proverb "The Eight Immortals cross the sea, each reveals its divine powers" (八仙過海，各顯神通; bā xiān guò hǎi, gè xiǎn shén tōng).
At 16, he enrolled in a three year technical program in Denmark which included a combination of course work and internships at flower shops.
In February 2010, the BFA took over the Society of Floristry, absorbing its membership and taking on the role as the standard-setting organisation for professional floristry in the UK.
Harry James Dodson (11 September 1919 – 25 July 2005) was an English gardener who became a celebrity as a result of the BBC television documentary series The Victorian Kitchen Garden, which featured his professional expertise and his reminiscences.
In 2013, the Foundation donated one million dollars to the CSin3 Program, which was developed to allow farm-worker children to attend college and obtain a degree in computer science.
Various awards and prizes are given by the national and local government authorities, as well as private ones.
The centre, developed and automated have a floor area of about 100,000 square metres providing for export chambers and offices apart from product break down and buildup stations and automated sorting areas.
A short distance away is the Vanda Miss Joaquim Park, located on Yan Kit Road, which "commemorates the founder" of the national flower, and the orchid itself.
The plants that are grown vary by plant species as well as by climate, cultural practices and the accessibility of worldwide transportation.
Sandström is also known for several television performances, of which he amongst others took part at the Söndagsöppet segment "Hur gör djur" in the 1990s.
There are at least a dozen schools of traditional flower arrangements, and the art is considered to be in revival.
It was quickly picked up by the Socialist Youth Movement (MJS) and the Association of Socialist Postmen, of which Sarre was leader, and became popular with party members and other federations at the time of the Épinay Congress.
In turn, nageire is recognized as a certain stylistic category of Kadō, the Japanese "Way of Flowers".
ernesti-augusti (fishtail palm) which has a good market in Europe, had been over-collected in the forests of Guatemala and Mexico and xateros from Guatemala crossed the Belizean border to cut the leaf.
A chrysanthemum exhibition (菊花展覧会 Kikatenrankai) is a flower show that takes place in various parts of Japan every autumn from October to November.
Similarly, Network SouthEast (NSE), one of the temporary aggregations thrown up by the pre-privatisation of British Rail, was looking for ways of making its rail services more profitable.
It was registered and added to Russian Book of Records, a national reference book listing the achievements of Russian people.
Flower preservation has existed since early history, although deliberate flower preservation is a more recent phenomenon.
It is for this reason that the philanthropist Angela Burdett-Coutts purchased the land, and established Columbia Market.
In 1957 the first product from outside New England, anemones from New York, were admitted for sale on a trial basis.
At that time, the market provided flowers for big flower shops, which in turn decorated Malacañang Palace.
In addition, she appeared in and did arrangements and table settings for live lectures across the US and internationally.
Career Alexandra was born in Naberezhnye Chelny in the Republic of Tatarstan, Russia and studied floral design in Kyiv, Ukraine in the early 1990s and in Moscow in the middle 2000s.
Anarchism Black Rose Books is the name of the Montreal anarchist publisher and small press imprint headed by the libertarian-municipalist and anarchist Dimitrios Roussopoulos.
The American Institute of Floral Designers (AIFD), established in 1965, is a non-profit organization dedicated to recognizing and promoting the art of floral design as a professional career.
Like her aunt, she belonged to the minority of månglare who managed to become wealthy on her business.
Its first major task, after forming a Council of directors composed of leading florists in the industry, was to write, run and mark examinations in floristry skills and theory, which it did successfully for almost 49 years.
Significance of particular flowers Typically, a florist will organize flowers by season and holiday.
It also featured an Art Deco design that incorporated floral themes, such as the lotuses atop its fluted concrete piers.
Before the building opened, the city's floral industry was based at a crowded market on Wabash Street that lacked proper facilities for processing flowers.
It mainly focuses on a boy named Takaaki Asakura (nicknamed "Taiyou" (the sun) for his sunny and cheerful disposition) and his affection for flowers.
Academic career In the immediate aftermath of the Liberation of Yugoslavia, Polak worked for the Yugoslav Ministry of Agriculture and as a high school principal in Brezovica.
However, in a shuffle following the 1986 election, McCarthy gained responsibility for international trade but lost the deputy premier title, which she admitted left her a little disappointed.
Everything you want to know about preserved flowers Archived 2021-01-28 at the Wayback Machine by Floralonly, Albert, published 28, May 2020
The Luther rose, a rose combined with a ring, heart, and Latin cross, was used by Martin Luther as a personal seal.
Christian symbolism in the Advent wreath Advent wreaths are circular, representing God's infinite love, and are usually made of evergreen leaves, which "represent the hope of eternal life brought by Jesus Christ".
Industrial development schemes Rwanda is negotiated for ODA partnership with Kenyan government to gain support on cut flower industry.
The primary stem is placed vertically, while the secondary stem is tilted 45 degrees and scattered over a 30-degree area to the front and left.
William Gordon Pannill (March 25, 1927 – June 10, 2014) was an American businessman, textile industry executive, amateur botanist, and noted daffodil hybridizer.
These shows were attended by thousands of florists and students over the years, raising standards and pushing back the boundaries of commercial floral design.
An effort was made to attract people to the show with special trains being laid from London Waterloo and porters wore carnations in their hats to create a buzz around the show.
Flowers which are particularly suitable for such a treatment are roses, peonies, camellias, marigolds, globe flowers, orchids, dahlias, carnations, phloxes, summer chrysanthemums, hollyhocks, and the like, and other species with many petals or a fairly rigid structure.
Seven other books followed Technical Floristry, and chapters by Roberts appeared in several books, such as The Studio Book of Flowers and Flower Arrangements.
International organizations International Pressed Flower Art Society The IPFAS in an international pressed flower organization that promotes pressed flower art and offers education and holds competitions.
In modern times, the term specifically refers to small bouquets in a conical metal holder, or the holder itself, particularly when used at a white wedding.
Although the TRP went with a different logo, the party, and other organizations in what has been referred to as the "radical galaxy", continued using the fist and rose emblem when running in elections, for example the Pannella List.
Scans of 19th-century books on the language of flowers: Charlotte de La Tour (in French), Le langage des fleurs, 7e éd., Paris : Garnier Frères, 1858.
Candidates are first evaluated through an online test, and if successful, by a panel of examiners at the annual AIFD Symposium.
As the success of the market continued to attract more growers and buyers, the market was forced to move again, albeit briefly, in 1903, this time to 163 Columbus Avenue.
Important details, such as which side the bow was tied on, determined whether the message referred to the person giving the flowers or the person receiving them.
Psychiatric hospital and art When Bataille was around 40 years old, she is said to have started exhibiting signs of a mental disturbance.
Matsui Nursery has about 10 million potted orchids continuously in production in 75 acres of greenhouse.
The new building, designed by architecture firm Fox & Fox, included amenities such as modern refrigeration and improved elevators and loading areas to facilitate efficient transport of flowers.
In his introduction to the book Ganutell by Maria Kerr, the Maltese scholar and historian Guido Lanfranco states that in Maltese eighteenth and nineteenth century history, one finds numerous references to ganutell which can be considered to be the Maltese art of making artistic flowers.
See also Ikebana Flower arrangement History of flower arrangement Korean culture Korean art Floristry References "Oriental Flower Arrangement" in three volumes and "Oriental Flower Arrangement 100" in four volumes by Im Wha-Kong, Seoul, 1995
The UK's largest and longest running independent flower show, each year it attracts many celebrities from all over the world, from television and film to music and sport.
This is a major consideration in identifying plant species suitable for use in floristry, as plants with a long vase life are far more desirable than those with a short vase life.
With a financial aid of 400,000 US dollars provided by the Dutch government for the program implementation, the KFC anticipated to involve all sectors in the Kenyan flower industry by the end of 2015.
Vase life is a term used by the floristry industry that describes the period during which a cut flower or cut foliage retains its appearance in a vase.
The place grew in popularity as a flower market due to the presence of Dangwa Tranco Terminal, with buses coming from Benguet – where most cut flowers are harvested – unloading the fresh blooms in nearby streets.
Named after it are: Hanakago stable (花籠部屋, Hanakago beya), a stable of sumo wrestlers Hanakago stable (1992), a later incarnation of the stable Hanakago (toshiyori), a sumo toshiyori held by Daijuyama Tadaaki as of 2020
These include: Bud opening development, where buds are harvested early in development then kept in a solution of sucrose, plant hormones, and germicides before they open.
The building was constructed in 1927 to serve as a central market for several of Chicago's largest florists.
1910s–1920s: Setting a record and helping level the field Spinks was noted in 1912 for a still-unbroken world record at 18.2 balkline, a run of 1,010 continuous points, using the "chuck nurse" (a form of nurse shot); he could have made more, but stopped.
The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979 and on the State Register of Historic Places in 1989.
