Beginning with that sale and continuing throughout the campaign, Fairey used proceeds from selling the image to produce more; after first printing, he made 4,000 more that were distributed at Obama rallies before Super Tuesday.
During its recovery the last buildings — the tent-like church of Saint Martinian (1641), a two-tented barbican church (1650), and a bell-tower (1680) — were added to the complex.
Blackboard chalk, typically used in educational settings, is shorter and thinner than sidewalk chalk.
Urban folklore has it that cyclists on round-island trips will make a pit stop there, where they will take photos with the lamp post, and leave their favourite stickers behind.
He had over 8 years of experience in various kind of communication design projects in the industry as well as his own startup, Digital Moustache.
Wildstyle has drawn inspiration from traditional calligraphy and has been described by some as partially abstract but does have specific traits associated with the form.
The Steppe Geoglyphs are a number of earth constructions in the Turgai Trough area of Turgai in northern Kazakhstan.
Notable examples have been made by many different Australian Aboriginal cultures, and in many cases are thought to be associated with spiritual ceremonies.
In a 2001 exercise, an attempt was made to transport a large stone along a land and sea route from Wales to Stonehenge.
René kept the gallery open into 1999, when he and Joanne were pressured out of their long-time Wooster Street space.
From right to left are Madam Governor and her two daughters (Shiyi Niang and Shisan Niang), along with nine maidservants.
Undisturbed stones are found usually arranged in parallel pairs of between eight and fourteen lattes framing a rectangular space.
In July 2020, the S was trademarked in the United States as "The S Thing" by a man who had no involvement in its creation.
In contrast to conventional graffiti styles that emerged in 1970s New York, Brazilian pichação was inspired by blackletter typefaces and runic style lettering that were commonly used on record sleeves by popular heavy metal bands in the 1980s.
See also Cultural depictions of cats Fathom (art installation), another temporary art installation in Portland Wildwood: Follow the Crows (2026) References External links "Coraline's Curious Cat Trail descends upon downtown Portland".
By 1984, Knight had discovered Slab City – a transient and retiree commune – and decided to leave a 'small monument' out of concrete and paint.
Kissing Students (Estonian: Suudlevad tudengid) is a sculpture and fountain located in Raekoja plats, Tartu, Estonia.
During the coronation festivities accompanying the crowning of the Kings of Hungary in the city between 1563 and 1830, wine was usually poured into the town fountains.
The carved limestone depicts the Roman goddess Diana seated and surrounded by fish, cattails and a unicorn.
Such graffiti/street artists as Keith Haring, Shepard Fairey, Above, Mint&Serf, Futura 2000, Os Gemeos, and Faile among others have successfully transcended their street art aesthetic beyond the walls of urban landscape and onto walls of private and corporate clients.
With this victory and the blood spilled by the friendship of the Korean and Soviet people became even stronger.
Jodi Magness also states that during the 4th century Jewish places of worship represented “the Garden of Eden or Paradise, a place where heaven and earth were united”.
The foundation stone was laid by Brigadier General Sir William Henry Manning, Governor of Ceylon on December 7, 1921, and was unveiled by him October 27, 1923 at the Galle Face Green and was known as the Victory tower.
It is in the building of these systems that Herodes Atticus had become in essence a civil engineer with expertise in water supply.
Controversy On 26 January 2020, Headache Stencil came under controversy for his statements on Twitter targeting Chinese people, which read "Hey Chink!
He launched Portals in collaboration with fellow journalist Michelle Moghtader and Iranian artist Sohrab Kashani.
Moreover, there are some challenges in fabricating and applying graphene oxide based nanofilters for water desalination.
Alyce McGovern highlights that a possible reason for this is that yarn bombing is often done by white middle-class women and it is seen as harmless fun; it is deemed more as street art and less as graffiti (which is enforced much more strictly).
Invurt maintains news of exhibitions and events, interviews and photography of street art across Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia.
The individual figures, however, indicate marked deterioration from the expressive detail of the murals of Seti I's mortuary temple.
The Lovers is a public art work by artist Mark di Suvero located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The piece also questioned whether the performance – or the document of the performance – was the actual artwork.
The St Pancras piano is part of a wider phenomenon of public pianos in the UK, influenced by initiatives such as artist Luke Jerram's "Play me, I'm yours" installation, which began in 2008.
See also Presencia de América Latina References External links Description of the work in www.portaldearte.cl (in Spanish) Ojo con el Arte - 1990 - Murales de Concepción (YouTube video in Spanish).
The initial concept for the southernmost end of the project included the Crenshaw Monument, a 120-foot-tall (6.1 m) totem that spells out Crenshaw in giant letters.
These geoglyphs form different geometric patterns and appear in several shapes, and are up to 13 ft (4m) deep.
The constructions Many or all of them consist of smaller earthworks (mounds, trenches, and ramparts) arranged with each other to make geometric and other shapes (composite figures).
Even the deity syllables are removed in a specific order along with the rest of the geometry until at last the mandala has been dismantled to show impermanence.
Its vasque had a circle of gas lamps which shone on the cascading water, making it one of the first fountains to be illuminated.
Graffiti is often seen as a form of territory, and once it premiers on a location it invites others to participate in the act of vandalism.
The festival has since exhibited in 17 cities worldwide with the purpose of city beautification and community building.
The technical procedure for sgraffito is relatively simple, resembling the process of painting frescoes.
Vallauri's (anonymous) stencils were published in France since 1982 and had a larger impact on the New Yorker and later Polish stencil graffiti movements around David Wojnarowicz and Thomaz Sikorski.
See also List of public art in Baltimore Fort McHenry References External links http://monumentcity.net/2009/03/02/armistead-monument-at-fort-mchenry-baltimore-md/
Cirio overlaid the auction prices on the images to sell them as digital artworks on the website Art-Derivatives.com [31] for a fraction of the value set at the auctions.
There is a bridge over the stream next to the southern carriageway of H3, and an underpass links this bridge to the cows' field.
In 1996, a new article published in an engineering magazine offered a new interpretation, according to which the pucara might be a ritual site and an astronomical observatory, not a fortress.
By the middle of the Bristol trail over 1,000,000 sculptures had been ticked off using the app, which also allowed visitors to complete special trails, learn about the sculptures and artists, and earn interactive trophies.
Recognition Facter is noted for his advocacy of street art and graffiti in Australia, he has written articles on street art in Australia, as well as on issues of copyright.
Fine granules that have been rounded by the natural influences of seas, rivers or fluvials, in turn negatively influence the bonding between the individual granules as they more easily slide past each other.
Sunpendulum is an art, science and technology project devised by Austrian media artist Kurt Hofstetter.
The contaminants, chlorinated ethylenes (PCE and TCE), were removed, leaving, for the most part, fully dechlorinated groundwater (little vinyl chloride was observed).
It houses four traditional Meitei watercraft, including two hiyang hirens (Royal racing boats) and two tanna his (commoners' racing boats).
Turkey added Asu Ceren, Cuneyt Celik, Cooper, Dünya Atay, Eskreyn, Iberoptik, Flypropaganda, Fu, Funk, Goksu Gul, Jellyfishandroyale, Kmr, Küf Project, Levent Bozkurt, Mekazoo, Miray özcan, Nnuka, Omeria, Pet05, Shione, Sesin çıksın, Tabone, Techone, Yeni Anıt, Zoe, Wicx, and Choma.
While POWWOW shares the name of the Native American Pau Wau gathering, the festival's name originates combining the "Pow" of comic book action bubbles with the "WOW" of a reader's reaction.
It debuted publicly in Rotterdam in February 2007 and went on to be exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) and Tate Modern, among other venues.
Nymphaeum was the general name throughout the Mediterranean for an ornate structure that terminated an aqueduct bringing water from distant elevated terrain, say a stream or copious springs.
The selected site at the corner of Wingrove Avenue and Station Streets has enabled us to design a work of monumental scale which will have a strong presence, provide a unifying focus and become a landmark identified with Fairfield.
On the westside of the country, some younger stones (from the fourteenth to sixteenth centuries), have been found in three areas: Luss, Inchcailloch, and Loch Lomond, and Glendaruel.
(2020) indicate that soil samples predating the geoglyph are approximately 7,000 years old (AD ±4980).
They are of a monumental scale with several of the individual blocks weighing over 5 long tons (5 t).
Construction of the fountain began in 1929 by architect Pavia Høegh (1886-1956), the grandfather of artist Aka Høegh.
Cigarette is a public artwork by United States artist Tony Smith, located on the grounds of the Albright Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, NY.
Rists repeatedly sings "I'm not the girl who misses much", a reference to the first line of the song "Happiness Is a Warm Gun" by the Beatles.
The corporation produced the Sarasota Chalk Festival, a cultural event designed to celebrate the sixteenth century performance art of Italian street painting.
In traditional Persian architecture, a howz (Persian: حوض) is a centrally positioned symmetrical axis pool.
Fontaine du Printemps, Square Calmette, (1932), Paul Manaut and Gilbert Privat, sculptors Fontaine Jean-Moulin, Square Jean-Moulin, porte de Châtillon, (1957).
The installation work was carried out by the French technical expert Matias Richet and a Peruvian architect, surnamed Salazar, was in charge of the construction of the stone plinth.
On 23 August, at the height of the Battle of Tripoli, NTC rebels breached the Bab al-Azizia compound and international news stations broadcast pictures of rebels gathered around the statue, with one fighter having climbed onto it.
Sculpture gardens may also vary greatly in size and scope, either featuring the collected works of multiple artists, or the artwork of a single individual.
"Duncombe's Dog" In settlement of his gambling debts in 1778, Jennings was forced to sell the sculpture, stating "A fine dog it was, and a lucky dog was I to purchase it".
The sculptures differ from common garden statues by virtue of their original intent as well as designs which were meant to be embedded into a masonry wall.
However, it has been speculated that they might have been on the left pillar and the lesene to the right of the fresco.
French 16th-century gardens in the Ile-de-France were generally in flat terrain that did not lend itself to elaborate jeux d'eau.
Sir William Blackstone is a bronze statue by Paul Wayland Bartlett of the English legal scholar William Blackstone.
Seeking investment in YrWall, the entrepreneurs were successful in gaining £50,000 for 40% of the YrWall parent company Lumacoustics from Dragons Deborah Meaden and Peter Jones.
In November 2018 Laura Alarcón Rapu, the Governor of Easter Island, asked the British Museum to return the statue.
The cost of demolishing the prison, and thus the budget for the artwork, was estimated at somewhere between one and three million dollars.
This cornfield was stewarded by Lauren Bon and a large team of collaborators and volunteers for a full agricultural cycle in 2005 – 2006.
On 8 April 2000 a memorial plate dedicated to American pilots whose aircraft was brought down on 8 April 1950 by the USSR Air Forces near Liepāja was added to the pedestal of the monument.
The Statehouse was built in 1888 and remains one of the most important Neo-Classical Revival buildings in the state of Indiana.
Bollywood Art Project (BAP) is an urban art project started in 2012 in Mumbai, India in memoir of popular Hindi Cinema of Bollywood.
Instead of allowing the work to undergo further degradation, the monks began approaching art dealers, hoping to sell it.
By the time the Tower was fully restored in September 2017, the 1950s surgery center the stairwell had once attached to had been demolished and a new hospital building had been constructed.
In the introduction to the book, Ellis noted that US photographer Charles Gatewood had written to him and sent him photographs of similar stencil graffiti that had recently appeared in New York City, leading Ellis to speculate that: ...
Each year, the theme refers to a social issue that is applicable to all and makes both the artists and the audience look at these social issues in new and transformative ways.
More than 3,000 VIPs from the world of politics, business and culture took part in the opening ceremony.
In addition to his diligent practice of painting and calligraphy, Pan also delved into music and poetry.
"More on Hoa Hakananai'a: Paint, petroglyphs, and a sledge, and the independent value of archaeological and historical evidence" (PDF).
It first arrived at UMMA as a long-term loan in 2008, helping to celebrate the museum's new Maxine and Stuart Frankel and the Frankel Family Wing.
The project The name of the project, Djerbahood, was imposed to the organizers by the giant letters THE HOOD installed by Rodolphe Cintorino at the entrance of the village, also known as El Hara Sghira or "the small neighborhood" in Arabic.
In 1962, Hunt was the youngest artist exhibited at the Seattle World's Fair, and in 1971, Hunt became the first African-American sculptor to receive a retrospective exhibition of his work at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
On 11 and 12 September 2010, the Berenkuil was the stage for the international graffiti festival "Step In The Arena", which was held again on 9 and 10 July 2011.
However, in the opinion of the monument's creators, the aid was of the wrong kind: barely-edible canned food, instead of weapons.
It was built to commemorate the arrival of Konev's 1st Ukrainian Front, namely the Fourth Tank Army led by Lelyushenko, on 9 May 1945, ending the German occupation of Prague.
See also Continuum sculpture Delta Solar List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 2 References Further reading "Fabricating a soaring symbol of the space age {Richard Lippold's Ad astra}." AIA Journal 65, (October 1976): Art Index Retrospective: 1929–1984 (H.
They didn't reflect the light of the sun from any possible viewing angles on the street, but the artist worked with them as well, using morse code to embed messages in the window grids.
Zhang Guanghua (China Merchants Bank's vice president) were appointed as the chairman and Vice Chairman of Wing Lung Bank respectively.
Art exhibition "Best Before" in Lunchmoney Gallery, Aarhus, Denmark 2012 Street Art The New Generation, Brandts Museum of Art, Odense.
His photographic records resulted in the video Arte Para Todos, shown at the International São Paulo Biennial in 1977.
The architectural sculpture was created for the Milwaukee Fire Department station at the intersection of 103rd Street and Fond du Lac Avenue.
The Family is a public art work by artist Joseph Puccetti that depicts an abstract man, woman and child encircled by a ring.
Social sculpture and political art ART/MEDIA operated as a museum without walls with an office located in the historical Kimo Theater on Route 66.
Zygielbojm11 May 1943 London The monument is part of the Memorial Route of Jewish Martyrdom and Struggle, leading from the intersection of Anielewicza and Zamenhofa Streets and the Monument to the Ghetto Heroes, to the Umschlagplatz Monument.
In architecture, and specifically Gothic architecture, a gargoyle () is a carved or formed grotesque with a spout designed to convey water from a roof and away from the side of a building, thereby preventing it from running down masonry walls and eroding the mortar between.
The construction intent document was submitted to the Senior Associate University Architect and Director of IUPUI Project Development in June 2004 and the final bid document was issued in June 2006.
The artwork is located in a small park near Third and Walker Streets in the Walker's Point neighborhood.
An aqueduct of 74 m on the north side of the spur would have to reach the sources of the Kladeos in Erymanthos, near Mageiras at 3.5 km from Olympia.
The image shows one example with a phallus portrayed with wings and the feet of an animal, and a phallus for a tail.
When another user comes within range of an RFID-tagged object, the associated graffiti is downloaded onto their mobile device.
They stated that the theme was open to interpretation as long as the finished work would supply birds with water.
The name by which the beach is actually known comes from a nearby cave where it seems that Hotu Matu’a could have been installed while building a house for him.
In a small city forest threatened by urban planners, a 200-pound revolver welded in iron was chained to one of the trees, carrying the stencil text: “My Ancestors Went Hunting in These Woods”.
The owner, Baron Emile d'Erlanger, donated the canvases to the Spanish state in 1881, and they are now on display at the Museo del Prado.
Transportation Since the island was largely treeless by the time the Europeans first visited, the movement of the statues was a mystery for a long time.
Some hydraulophones include an underwater hydrophone pickup to allow the sounds produced by the water to be electrically amplified.
was founded in 2010 by Denise Kowal as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation, based in Sarasota, Florida in the United States.
History Whitaker Wright The statues were amongst the property of the celebrated fraudster Whitaker Wright.
For example, the stone arrangement at Wurdi Youang consists of about 100 stones arranged in an egg-shaped oval about 50 metres (160 ft) across.
Transporting of water was usually completed using clay jars, used by many of the residents, and only replaced in the 20th century by the typical plastic bottles.
In New York City, the artists put up thousands of fliers, and activists posted them in Berlin, Lisbon, and Buenos Aires.
It was undertaken as an experiment in change, decay and rebirth, and by 2000, had largely disappeared into a landscape of overgrown vegetation.
Biography Ball was born in Waterloo, Iowa, where he was influenced by his mother's role as a theater director, while Nogues, from Buenos Aires, was inspired by his father's work in aerospace engineering.
George Washington (bust by Houdon) is a public artwork that is a limited edition copy of an original work by French neoclassical sculptor Jean Antoine Houdon that is on display inside the Indiana Statehouse, which is located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.
Wang NewCity Chicago, Eye Exam Group dynamics Michael Workman SF Bay Guardian, Business as unusual Artist collectives make the personal political in Peer Pleasure 2 By Katie Kurtz Smart Museum Exhibit, University of Chicago, 2002
Floyd has completed several public art works in Melbourne including at the Docklands and for the Eastlink Motorway.
The states with the most hillside letters are: Montana: 130 monograms California: 83 monograms Utah: 94 monograms Arizona: 63 monograms Nevada: 47 monograms Oregon: 39 monograms Idaho: 36 monograms United States Arizona California Colorado At least 31 monograms, possibly 33.
In 2007, the trout was repainted and restored and in 2012 the work was refurbished to celebrate the centenary of the Snowy River Shire.
It demonstrate how to succeed without being located by dogs, and when not to run to avoid being shot.
A sequencing fountain is an ornamental fountain that cycles through a series of patterns of water flow under the control of a programmable control unit.
The coarse particles return to the mill for re-grinding while the finer products are passed on to a subsequent stage of treatment.
Among other things, the project explores the function of art as gift and the effect of a gift economy on creative productivity.
See also List of attractions and monuments in Stanley Park Public art in Vancouver References External links Sculpture wearing a Canucks jersey with white towel.
Iyengar was a guest of the Garfinkels when he visited Philadelphia in 1976 and gave a public demonstration of yoga at Haverford College.
This is a list of colossal statues and other sculptures that were created, mostly or all carved, and remain in situ.
Form is known for projects that often span several years (see below), and for its ability to generate innovative partnerships with industry and corporate sponsors including Wesfarmers and BHP Billiton.
Commercial vessels are sized to accommodate the flow rate of water and range up to 14 feet in diameter.
In February 2017 the robot's creator, an Italian artist known as "Norma Jeane", lost contact with ShyBot.
In the construction stage of modeling the statue, Armando also made the decision to resize it to a height of 17 meters, apart from the base.
See also List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 6 References External links Media related to Alexander Robey Shepherd (statue) at Wikimedia Commons
The Laykyun Sekkya statue depicts a standing Gautama Buddha next to a reclining statue of Gautama Buddha, depicting the scene of Mahaparinirvana (Mahaparinibbana).
He soon started travelling the world, and in London people have mistaken Dolk's works for being art by Banksy.
A Ranney Collector is a type of radial well used to extract water from an aquifer with direct connection to a surface water source like a river or lake.
Artist information Jill Sebastian got her inspiration at a young age when she saw a woman painting a mural depicting labor strikes.
An undated menu from his restaurant is labeled as "Don the Beachcomber's Delectable Thirty", which states "this souvenir menu is available at fifty cents".
The first was a 2009 addition next to the statue of a wave crashing down over the Kook, carrying a wire mesh outline of another surfer about to knock the Kook off his board.
On the federal level, since 1963 the General Services Administration has maintained the Art in Architecture Program, which allocates one-half of one percent of construction cost for art projects.
Genna Panzarella, the first woman to receive Italy's honorable Maestra Madonnari title at the International Grazi di Curtatone competition, participated as well as Vera Bugatti, who also holds the Maestra Madonnari title.
She was a student of well-known artists such as William Forsyth, Alexander Archipenko and Lorado Taft, who she worked on Fountain of Time with.
In 2018, the Photobooth traveled across the United States for Inside Out Vote, with 6,185 portraits, which was to awaken a sense of empowerment and provide voter registration groups a unique platform to register, energize and empower voters in communities throughout the U.S.
Biography Vallauri moved to Brazil with his family, settling first in the seaside town of Santos, where he trained the technique of engraving - depicting people in the port of Santos - and later to the state capital.
He was able to visit Salvation Mountain for the last time in May 2013; the visit was recorded by KPBS (TV).
See also Australia's big things List of world's largest roadside attractions Timbertown References External links Australian Big Things
Issa Rae spoke at the groundbreaking ceremony at the end of Black History Month on February 29, 2020.
Public art is art in any media that has been planned and executed with the intention of being staged in the physical public domain.
Backwash steps can be implemented using air and/or water to disrupt the biomat and recover flow whenever possible.
The topic of the procession was used to emphasize theatrical or satirical aspects; in this respect the picture has parallels to The Burial of the Sardine, painted between 1812 and 1819.
Over the following years, some trees were replaced due to deer damage, and stone was laid in the floor to echo the cross ribs and support beams of the cathedral.
About the artist Based out of Erie, Pennsylvania, Wyten's work focuses on the abstract steel sculpture.
The sculpture is an abstract form made of several steel bars oriented diagonally to the ground; it is rust-colored and installed on the lawn.
Completed globes were mounted along bicycle trails in Grant Park north of the Field Museum of Natural History, on Navy Pier, and along Michigan Avenue.
Awards and recognition 2025 Texas State Artist for Sculpture: One of Texas's highest artistic honors, awarded by the Texas Commission on the Arts.
Impact on politics While the immediate impact of street art on policy changes or political decision-making can be hard to measure, the art form's influence in shaping political discourse is undeniable.
Due to its complexity, wildstyle can be difficult to read for those unfamiliar with the form and process.
The Kongo cosmogram, a core symbol in Bakongo religion of the Kôngo people, represents man's origin, destiny, and path to salvation.
Viral phenomenon and public reaction The graffiti’s image quickly spread across various Serbian social media platforms, attracting a mixture of humorous reactions, satire, and criticism.
The project made public the list of all the companies registered in the Cayman Islands for the first time, exposing tax evasion practices by counterfeiting Certificate of Incorporation documents signed with his name.
Here are some photos of different types: Notes References Aquaculture Network Information Biology of the nitrogen cycle By Hermann Bothe, Stuart John Ferguson, William Edward Newton
Measuring 220 by 930 centimetres (87 by 366 in), Dublin's Last Supper is printed on vitreous enamel covering nine steel panels installed along Bloom Lane, part of the Millennium Walkway.
As Gaudí had created other flooring for the Casa Milà (namely an also-hexagonal parquet of oak and poplar), the tiles were only laid in less important rooms.
In Shaivism, the concept pictorially symbolises the transcendence of all duality including gender, with the spiritual lacking any distinctions, where energy and power (Shakti, Parvati) is unified and is inseparable with the soul and awareness (Brahman, Shiva).
The monument was redesigned in 1959 before an anticipated visit by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev, which was ultimately canceled.
Themes The Kalachakra Mandala for instance, contains 722 deities portrayed within the complex structure and geometry of the mandala itself.
The earliest are associated with the Pit Grave culture of the Pontic–Caspian steppe (and therefore with the Proto-Indo-Europeans according to the mainstream Kurgan hypothesis).
On the grounds of Yuzi Paradise (or 'Fool's Paradise') is also the Hotel of Modern Art." Wuhu Sculpture Park, Wuhu City, Anhui Province, China Zobon City Sculpture Garden, Shanghai More sculpture parks in China—listed on Birkbeck, University of London page You can add them in this section.
Epicenter is a public art work by artist Ernest Carl Shaw located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
William Moreau, a partner in the firm, stated, "He [Welsh] was instrumental in the growth of our firm....We wanted to try to establish a permanent memorial to him" (qtd.
A moon is on the proper front, a troll-like creature is on the proper left, a full sun is on the proper back, and a man with a long beard is on the proper right.
Trakas described the condition of the peninsula when he first saw it in a New York Times article with : “When I got here it was totally overgrown.
Some were in walls while others were found in the foundations (which were often re-used by the Victorians for their new buildings).
This time period may have been projected to end sometime between 7.3.0.0.0 and 7.5.0.0.0 — 295 and 256 BCE, respectively.
Crawford created a companion set of bronze doors for the House wing of the Capitol, the Revolutionary War Door.
Hebrew inscription:שמואל זיגלבוים (1895 – 1943), נציג הבונד במועצה הלאומי[ת] של ממשלת פולין הגולה בלונדון.
Each of the 15 cultural gems was choreographed, by five theatre makers: Peter Hayes, Natalie Fisher, Fiona du Plooy, Celeste Botha and Sensei Ndlovu.
The center claims that they look for inclusion of the Chicano student and seeks to create spaces to inspire the celebration of culture.
The Detroit Chimera Graffiti Mural is a mural by artist Kobie Solomon on the west-facing wall of the Russell Industrial Center's building number two located at 1600 Clay Avenue in Detroit, Michigan.
Elms were the main specimens used, along with pines, junipers, cypresses, and bamboos; plums were the favored fruit trees, along with peaches and oranges.
Artists featured include up-and-coming talents as well as established street artists from different cities around the world.
The 35 Snowdogs include designs based on, amongst others, ash trees, from which Ashford derives its name; a Kentish oast house, the Ashford coat of arms, the infinity symbol (invented by an Ashfordian), and a dog decorated by Mr Doodle (Sam Cox).
In collaboration with Alessandro Ludovico and Ubermorgen, Cirio created the project Amazon Noir to criticize the abuse of copyright laws for digital content misappropriated by private corporations.
After completing The Minute Man in 1875, French studied sculpture in Florence, Italy, for a year, during part of which he worked out of Thomas Ball's studio.
The fountains were fed by reservoirs in the upper garden, while the Samson fountain was fed by a specially-constructed aqueduct four kilometers in length.
Since December 1st 2016 the Monochrome Rose streetcar by Pipilotti Rist has served as a connection between the artworks along the 6.5-kilometre route connecting Cornavin and Bernex.
The work consists of 20 illuminated fiberglass canopies that provide light and also serve as shelter for users during inclement weather.
Joe McNamara Joe McNamara is noted in Ireland for a series of protests against Anglo-Irish Bank and the government's handling of the Irish financial crisis.
Rist had already submitted her project idea to the authorities in 2009, but it was not until seven years later that she was awarded the contract: "When I submitted it, there were hardly any themed or advertising streetcars.
Keim's focus on carefully preparing the painting ground came from his study of older frescos and their state of preservation.
Buddy Bears are painted, life-size fiberglass bear sculptures developed by German businesspeople Klaus and Eva Herlitz, in cooperation with sculptor Roman Strobl.
The two vertical arms of the sculpture evoke the religious scene of Moses holding the tablet of the Ten Commandments in his outstretched arms.
Besides being made of earth dug out and piled up, some of the geoglyphs are made by placing stones next to each other.
He collaborated with governments and businesses, to produce works ranging from small murals to large-scale installations on buildings, industrial structures, and canvas.
"Not A Cornfield" was a 2005 art project that transformed a 32-acre (130,000 m2) industrial brownfield (today part of Los Angeles State Historic Park in the historic center of Los Angeles) into a cornfield for one agricultural cycle.
Pre-Hispanic Cemetery 33°36′39.94″S 70°45′15.81″W Two cemeteries were also found at the foot of the hill, presumably diaguita-Inca, separated from each other by approximately 600 metres (2,000 ft).
1 in 2014, an artwork consisting of 45 kilograms (99 lb) of 18-carat rose gold, 18-carat palladium white gold in rod and pipe form, golden wires and leaves.
Women’s artwork Women in the Asir region are traditionally responsible for plastering and painting the walls, corridors, and ceilings of their homes.
Artificial waterfalls were popular in Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, including the famous waterfall in Viktoriapark in Berlin.
Switching devices Decorative fountain systems employ fluid amplifiers to generate their decorative displays and effects.
In all, there are four feathered serpents (two from the Wagner Collection) that accompany nine plants each.
Locals have nicknamed Magic Carpet Ride as The Cardiff Kook, a pejorative name popularized by the local surfing community.
Street art in Melbourne These are the examples for how council of Melbourne allows artists to show their talents to the world.
References External links Official Invurt website Official Irikanji website Archived 7 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine Damn It!
The tomb of Tommaso Pellegrini, an important figure who in his 1492 will stipulated that his burial take place in the family chapel, is on the left wall.
The mountain is a popular hiking spot, which has seen a surge in the number of ascensions in recent years.
Background On December 6, 1917, almost 2000 people were killed by the accidental explosion of the French ammunition ship Mont-Blanc in Halifax Harbour.
The Blue Trees is a performance and installation artwork by the artist Konstantin Dimopoulos that uses a colour transformation to provoke discussion about global deforestation.
Performance assessment The key component for assessing the success of a PRB is whether it satisfactorily removes the contaminants.
Disciplines Much of the work is multidisciplinary and intermedial, combining art forms or creating works that are hard to classify.
Tuymans has made about fifty site-specific murals since the mid-1990s, five permanent and the rest temporarily created for exhibitions.
The project has expanded to paint murals over different metropolitan city spaces around India, and has completed an international project in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
In 2024, the team presented I'm Fine, a sculpture exceeding 2,000 pounds constructed from street signs damaged by bullets and shrapnel collected from across Ukraine.
The work "Spray" is a twist on the iconic picture taken by Eddie Adams during the Vietnam War where general Nguyễn Ngọc Loan executes the Vietcong prisoner of war Nguyễn Văn Lém with a head shot.
It is also an attempt to trace the patterns, tendencies and future moorings of visual art through its current traits,".
Some have been carefully built as astronomically aligned models whilst others have been examples of artistic expression or tourist attractions.
After graduating, he lived in New York City's Chelsea district and worked as a carpenter, while producing abstract sculpture and drawings, often focused on interactions between man-made structures and landscape.
Three net structures hang from the ceiling under skylights designed to cast shadows of the nets on the floor.
More recently, some Australian Christian groups, including those at universities, have run evangelistic campaigns whose promotion involved chalking "Eternity", after Stace's fashion, on footpaths.
See also: Broken Window Theory Removal methods Governments take different approaches to graffiti removal, often depending on their resources.
He studied ceramics and sculpture at East Carolina University, where he received his Bachelor of Fine Arts in 1982.
Günther has created numerous other projects that explore the intersection of art, science, and politics.
The square sections around each face is 2' in length by 2' in width All of the faces are circular and the same size, measuring about 6” in diameter.
Nowadays, these Berlin Buddy Bears are exclusively presented on private premises, in front of hotels and embassies, as well as in the foyers of various office buildings.
No set of Romanesque murals has been preserved intact; some have been altered or restored at later dates, while some have faded significantly.
Selection of permanent works Skulptur på Blågårds Plads, (1912–16) (Kai Nielsen) Artemisspringvandet (1934), Hans Tavsens Park af Johannes C.
Moose in the City was a public art display in the year 2000 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada organized by the municipal government, which throughout the city placed 326 life-sized moose sculptures that had been decorated by local artists.
In the subsequent decade, she won mural commissions in the Bay Area and Los Angeles and California Arts Council awards; she also taught art at a SoMA mental health center.
Oscillation 2020 Oscillation is a traveling interactive installation that uses sight, sound, and movement to spark community activity and social interaction through play.
The mural depicts various scenes from the history of Puerto Rico with references to the popular culture, arts and folklore of the island.
Gallery Medieval Britain There are several types of graffiti found in British buildings dating from the Middle Ages.
It had been designed to challenge media coverage that sensationalized a rash of murders of women by the so-called Hillside Strangler; the tone of the press coverage seemed geared to heighten the climate of fear which reinforced the image of women as victims.
En Torno al Simbolismo del Pucara de Chena, Diseño Urbano y Paisaje, Universidad Central Facultad de Arquitectura, Urbanismo y Paisaje, Centro de Estudios Arquitectónicos, Urbanísticos y del Paisaje.
Description A caisson is constructed of reinforced concrete and installed into sand or gravel below the surface level of an adjacent river or lake.
Men's magazines of the era based in New York provided regular work, including Gent, Dude, Nugget and Cheri.
Three Weeks in January, was an anti-rape performance based on her landmark 1977 project; this time the map was installed prominently on the Los Angeles Police Department's main campus.
Exhibitions Ünal's work has been exhibited with a number of solo and group exhibitions: 2021 Pop-up group exhibition, PG Art Gallery, Istanbul.
The museum is a semi-dome structure in the mountain that contains several small items given to him by friends and visitors.
See also Utah monolith References External links Official website Photo gallery by Walter De Maria "Walter de Maria 'Lightning Field'".
Biofilms and algae grow on the rocks and feed on the nutrients in the stream, essentially filtering the water.
The sculpture has also been exhibited in Taastrup in November 2016, where the exhibition was arranged by Taastrup Kunstforening.
videos, written pieces, events, etc.) that are created by each hosting partner in order to contextualize the subject within their community setting.
Each episode includes an original interview with a French-speaking street artist and the creation of a collaboration piece.
Many of the intaglios are believed to date from the prehistoric period, but their age and the identity of their creators are still uncertain.
In the park is a monument to Ivan Panfilov, which was opened in 1944 and was the first monument in the USSR established to commemorate this Panfilov's service.
Dressed in only a shirt and pants, his shirt sleeves are rolled up above his elbows and his collar is open.
His artwork was characteristically critical of the government, and he often depicted the everyday reality of life for regular Venezuelans.
A mercury fountain is a fountain constructed for use with liquid metallic mercury ("quicksilver") rather than water.
Friedrichs-Friedländer explained to a reporter that he has not changed the engraving process and all engraving continues to be completed by hand; this is purposeful, to prevent the process from becoming anonymous.
The massive figure of the deceased is dressed in rich ecclesiastical vestments, draped in free folds.
Trans Lives Matter: St+Art India Foundation, in Delhi, invited the project to work on a large scale mural on a school wall in Lodhi Colony.
Wodkins managed to trick some blogs as well as media outlets Die Welt and PRiv'et Russia on RT into believing that the diapers were real.
The conversion of the building into a street art exhibition began in September 2013 and ended on October 31, 2013, after which the building was officially evacuated prior to demolition.
Made for exhibition in public spaces, rather than theaters, the work premiered on Los Angeles streets using a semi tractor trailer and large mobile home as screen surfaces.
The mural movement was a response to the original movement of Sandino and the revolution that was inspired by him nearly 50 years later.
This is not the first time that York Minster has employed a variety of methods to maintain and increase public access while also facilitating the conservation of its stained glass legacy.
Conductores de Venezuela is a giant ceramic mural on a wall outside the Covered Gymnasium at the Central University of Venezuela, facing out to the Francisco Fajardo freeway.
The Acre Geoglyphs are described by IPHAN as relevant to the study of the occupation process and settlement patterns in the Amazon region.
See also List of public art in Houston References External links Photo on Flickr Closeup photo on Flickr Photo on Picasaweb
The subject of the statues varies and often features an event, famous building or person from the previous year.
This speed means that writers can produce large amounts of throw ups in a short time, especially when compared with pieces.
Shirey seeing graffiti that read "mama" on the side of a building in Minneapolis and has grown into a collection of more than 2,000 images of street art from around the world, including Syria.
Local artists and schools decorated hundreds of full-sized fiberglass pig statues and installed them throughout the downtown area.
Impact In spite of the initial controversy, the artists behind the project believed that FIDO has become accepted by the community.
The buon fresco technique consists of painting in pigment mixed with water on a thin layer of wet, fresh, lime mortar or plaster.
The sculpture is an abstract form; it is installed on the lawn in front of the museum, at 525 South State Street.
The mural, completed(the mural has never been completed, Kobie never got the compensation to finish the job.) between 2010 and 2012, measures 8,750 square feet (813 m2) making it the largest mural in the state of Michigan, and, with its chimera, would like to represent the spirit of the city.
Steel Reborn is a public art work by American artist Charles Toman, located in front of the Miller Compressing Company on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
In 2005, Counts and the Yellow Arrow Mobile App/Global Public Art Project created an immersive installation and exhibition for Piaget at Art Basel Miami, and in 2006, extended the scope of the project to an augmented reality game called ICUH8ING.
Artist Peter Mayer graduated with a master's degree from the Yale School of Architecture and] was at the time of the mural's creation, working for the Indianapolis-based firm Woollen Associates.
Beyond furniture, Washington has created public and installation works around a recurring moon motif.
Figures must be maintained to remain visible, and local people often work regularly to restore or maintain a local landmark: A lost map of Australia at Compton Chamberlayne, Wiltshire, was restored in 2018.
Extreme hot weather, natural dust devils, software development and financial constraints pushed the system switch on date to 18 August 2008.
The memorial incorporates works of art by Ray Simon of Youngstown, Ohio, and was completed at a cost of $150,000 which was raised via donation.
Beginning installation in 2018, over 400 covers have since been installed by The Pokémon Company in cities and towns across the country.
Writing about the January 2011 version, an editor for Alaska magazine described Snowzilla as "a symbol of Alaska civil disobedience enacted, appropriately enough, in snow".
Conservation The 400-watt metal halide fixture and fiber optic illuminating boxes require a bulb change every 1 to 2 years.
The two artists have several stylistic similarities, and especially Banksy's work "Puppy Love" from 2005 has been pointed out as resembling Dolk.
He hoped to capitalize on the mining companies' growing receptiveness to reclamation and remediation projects that dealt with waste land in new, innovative ways.
Alyosha Skurlatov, a soldier of the 3rd Ukrainian Front who served as the model for this statue, died in 2013 at the age of 91.
See also List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 2 References External links http://www.hmdb.org/marker.asp?marker=39925
The faux stones are composed completely of styrofoam and painted gray, weighing approximately 420 lbs.
On Stela 31 there is a depiction of what may be a military figure with a shield that is adorned with this very symbol.
DOT DOT DOT appeared on TV channel NRK talking about the street art movement together with Martin Berdahl Aamundsen from Kontur Forlag, before the release of the book Street Art Norway Vol.
History of Beco do Batman The nickname for the area is attributed to a graffito of the DC Comics character Batman which was painted on one of the walls in the 1980s.
One of the works by English street artist Banksy during his October 2013 "residency" in New York City depicts a worker washing away the Eternity tag.
Wall Poems (Dutch: Muurgedichten, alternatively Gedichten op muren or Dicht op de Muur) is a project in which more than 110 poems in many different languages were painted on the exterior walls of buildings in the city of Leiden, The Netherlands.
In the later 20th century, programmable "dancing waters" became a feature of novelty fountains associated with resort hotels, where they were combined with laser light shows.
The mural was originally conceived by shipping magnate Johannes Eide in 2008, when he imagined the walls of a former shipbuilding hall being covered by paintings of old boats and images from the shipping industry.
The installations were fed art content via the project's website where anyone could upload artwork to be considered for inclusion on a screen.
The Elephanta site was first occupied by Hinayana Buddhists, before the arrival of the Brahmans to the island, to raise a large stupa to the Buddha with seven smaller stupas around it, probably around the 2nd century BCE.
Examples are in the collections of: Musée d'Orsay, Musée du Luxembourg, Musée Rodin, the Tate Museum, Victoria and Albert Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Norton Simon Museum, California Palace of the Legion of Honor, the Glenkiln Sculpture Park, and the Saint Louis Art Museum.
In 1960, he graduated with a BA in mathematics, but was already moving towards art after taking a sculpture course to fulfill a liberal-arts requirement; he was attracted to the medium as a means of making abstract ideas physical.
Steina and Woody Vasulka introduced the organizers to Godfrey Reggio, director of the film Koyannisqatsi (1982) who provided guidance on organizing Social Sculpture events as public service announcements.
For the statue in Washington, an association was founded to raise money for the effort, ultimately earning $21,000 by subscribers.
She was inspired by the student struggles in the 70s and 80s at Monash, and the work serves as a place for social meetings and encounters.
After this initial study, serious archaeological excavations commenced in the 1980s under Israeli professors Moshe Kochavi and Yoni Mizrachi, as part of the Land of Geshur Archaeological Project.
The Chapungu Sculpture Park is a sculpture garden in Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe, which displays the work of Zimbabwean stone sculptors.
According to Scott, it was agreed Van Hoeydonck's name would not be made public to avoid the commercial exploitation of the US government's space program.
Some of the dynamited spheres have been reassembled and are currently on display at the National Museum of Costa Rica in San José.
As a result, the Miron firm transformed 75 hectares of the quarry into a landfill site for domestic waste.
He studied architecture at McGill University and Yale University, and worked in Paris and New York before returning to Montreal in 1964, where he opened his architecture practice and began teaching at the Université de Montréal.
Sand mandalas traditionally take several weeks to build due to the large amount of work involved in laying down the sand in such intricate detail.
Most of the references come from the comprehensive catalogue raisonné edited by German art historian Eva Meyer-Hermann and published by the David Zwirner Gallery and Yale University Press (2018–2019).
The US National Snow Sculpting Championship organized by Winterfun USA is the only national snow sculpting championship in the United States.
He valued the work at $10,000 and donated it to the university, asking that no changes be made and that the structure be allowed to deteriorate naturally.
Information Untitled (IUPUI Letters) was designed as part of the signage package to go with the original construction of IUPUI's Campus Center.
was a twelve-hour performance installation over a course of six days, at 55 Water Street, with an environment made of a field of wild grass harvested from Jamaica Bay.
A tall stainless steel light post salvaged from the demolition of Milwaukee's Park East Freeway is surrounded by a colorful array of painted aluminum signs that protrude in a spiral formation.
At least 4,200 people have died, largely from dehydration and hyperthermia, while attempting this journey through Southern Arizona.
It commemorates Albert Gallatin, who founded New York University and served as United States Secretary of the Treasury.
Description The painting is 48 by 3 metres (157 ft × 10 ft) and made from fluid enamel painted on 48 individual steel panels measuring 1 by 3 metres (3 ft 3 in × 9 ft 10 in) each.
The origin of who created and what was the first true tiki-shaped mug is frequently debated and has not been decided.
A number of sculptures were driven across Tower Bridge and London Bridge on a trailer drawn by a tractor.
The oil on canvas measures 131.5 × 102.6 cm (51 3/4 × 40 3/8 in.) and was auctioned at Sotheby's Paris on June 30, 2020, with a final price of €77,825, surpassing its estimated value of €30,000–50,000.
Di Suvero visited UMMA for the reinstallation, and the University of Michigan awarded him an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree.
Style A Lock On is art in a public space, typically attached to a fence or street lamp with some sort of padlock, without permission.
The technology finds the greatest application in treating malodorous compounds and volatile organic compounds (VOCs).
Typically held the last week of February and the first week of March, spectators may view the sculptors at work during the championship competitions.
It is characterized by an aedicule with a fresco by Martino da Verona, who depicted the Madonna col Bambino surrounded by four Musician Angels, addressing the three Bevilacqua introduced by Saints Catherine, Dominic, Anthony Abbot, George and Zeno.
I wanted an alarm clock, an answer to the daylight...." "...I studied the place during an entire year.
These nodes will be located at a distance of 22.416% of the length of the tube from each end of the tube.
Two members of the FSU College Republicans created the poster from an Obama "Hope" poster they had purchased from the school's College Democrats club, and used it to demonstrate outside the Biden event.
See also The Awakening, a 1980 sculpture that also features hands emerging from the ground Mano del Desierto, a 1992 sculpture of a giant hand by the same artist == References ==
Development FIDO was announced in 1999 as one of a number of projects funded through the council's public art program.
The mountainous region of the county consists of the Albera massif to the southeast, the Corbières massif to the north, and the historic regions of Vallespir, Conflent, Cerdagne, and Capcir, which make up almost 50% of the department's total area.
However, the restoration works would continue, with Mayor Luis Torres Robledo being the one who would begin the second stage of the Work.
Treatment of outdoor artworks The treatment of outdoor artworks is multifaceted and dependent on the material type, condition, structural integrity, and exhibition conditions.
Quotes from a significant work and some biographical information about the writer are stamped onto each plaque, along with an excerpt of the author's writing.
The work resulted in a "slowly developing forest that represents the Manhattan landscape inhabited by Native Americans and encountered by Dutch settlers in the early 17th century." Environmental art also encompasses the scope of the urban landscape.
The mural was acquired from the American Legion post in 2016 by the Allentown Art Museum in Allentown, Pennsylvania and is today on permanent exhibition there.
Three blocks of limestone, each successively smaller, are cemented into the limestone niche which houses the bust.
List Source See also List of public art in Rosenborg Castle Gardens List of public art in Copenhagen Botanical Garden List of public art in Copenhagen
For example, Studniczka played a key role in ensuring that the Leipzig University Senate Commission voted unanimously in favour of Klinger's design in May, thereby advocating for the resumption of the commission to Klinger, who had been stripped of the contract in the meantime.
Graffiti as a negative externality Governments see graffiti as a negative externality because it largely inhibits or detracts from the beautification of a local community.
The only information he provided about himself is that he is a professional painter who works during the day, and undertakes facade restoration work at night.
The policy set a goal of one to two percent of the capital cost of new construction and major renovations of main campus buildings for the acquisition of public art.
Latin gula "gullet, throat, palate, mouth", gurgulio and similar words derived from the root gurg- / garg- "to swallow", which represented the gurgling sound of water (e.g., Portuguese and Spanish garganta, "throat"; but gárgola "gargoyle" is from Old French).
The beam strength is purported to be 1 billion candle power, with the ability to extend up to 5,498 feet; however that claim has been questioned.
Wodkins' question was whether this would affect art dealers' willingness to sell art to the President - being paid from off offshore bank accounts, leaving no trace of the buyer, and arranging for discrete delivery of the art, including pieces by Ai Wei Wei, via the free-port of Geneva.
Kiss painted the portraits of the famous artists in colors, but left her own portrait at the far right in gray.
Notable works Saint Catherine mural in Yekaterinburg: "Suprematic cross" by Pokras Lampas Canned food paintings: References External links http://www.stenograffia.ru/ Stenograffia at Google Cultural Institute
(fr) Pierre Vidal, "Le Roussillon Préhistorique", Ruscino, nos 15–18, 1921 Reissued in a single volume in 1922.
Hill (2013): A comparison of Berlin in the 1970s with Berlin in the 2010s, spiced up with the stories of escapades that only ASA-ers at the Field Station could have pulled off.
Between 1869 and 1872, French studied anatomy with William Rimmer, and in 1870 he undertook a one-month apprenticeship with the sculptor John Quincy Adams Ward.
The work is a large chiseled stone fitted with a stainless steel loop near its top from which smaller rocks are suspended on four sides of the sculpture.
It planted around 131 different plants, (including around 20 medicinal plant species) in the garden.
Gilbert and Arpin also collaboratively presented an installation of archival assemblages of image and text from "Masters of their Conditions" research sessions as part of the 2009 TransCultural Exchange Conference's "Here, There, & Everywhere: Anticipating Art for the Future" exhibitions.
This method is effective in non-regular cases, and in neighbourhoods with concerned and persistent citizens, however for locations with chronic levels of graffiti are rarely reported.
Style and methods Published sources note that his studio uses traditional sculpting alongside digital tools including 3D modelling and CNC machinery for large-scale fabrication.
2005 In 2005, Auckland City Council held a competition for a $2 million upgrade of Khartoum Place, with none of the entrants intending to keep the memorial.
The 1989 decision led to a preservation campaign which included a guard by the statue day and night in order to prevent it from being demolished.
In every metropolis, the United Buddy Bears exhibitions are supported by the government, the foreign ministries, the mayors, local nonprofits, and UNICEF.
See also List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 2 References External links waymarking Bluffton
The statue was unveiled in 1993 by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, marking the centenary since Gandhi was thrown from a train at Pietermaritzburg railway station.
They have also collaborated with local theaters, art galleries, the India Art Fair, public libraries and educational institutions in running workshops, creating murals that inform and aesthetically brightens public spaces.
Installed at KMFA's facility, the installation consists of indoor musical sculptures designed to respond to user interaction.
The posters were pasted in the communities of the outer boroughs, in Times Square itself, and citywide.
They both approved of the concept, as did Robert and architect Charles Louis Borie Jr., who designed the Justice building.
General Harris and his soldiers who led the battle against Tipu Sultan were honoured in 1907, more than 100 years after the siege of Srirngapatna, with an Obelisk Monument by Krishna Raja Wadiyar IV of the Wodeyar Kingdom of Mysore.
The impetus to build the monument was Kim Il Sung's speech "Let Us Further Develop Popular Art" given to rural amateur artist groups on 7 March 1961.
Examples are located at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Museum of Modern Art, and Walker Art Center.
In the Gothic period the carving of ivory reliefs became a considerable luxury industry in Paris and other centres.
In his 1861 book, the French missionary Eugene Casallis recalled the litema patterns he had experienced since settling among Basotho in the 1830s, calling the designs "ingenious", which suggests designs more intricate than the Bakoena examples Stow reproduced (Van Wyk 1998:89).
Several styles have been produced, with the most prolific being a shorter version commonly known as "Jocko" and a taller version known as "cavalier spirit".
It was part of the Darebin City Council's Public Art Program, and is located beside the Fairfield railway station.
It was vandalised with the addition of a Hitler moustache, and later burned to the ground by unknown arsonists.
This site contains a slide show, public programs, and recent news stories Public Works of Art Project, video External links Smithsonian Museum of American Art: PWAP paintings Flickr album Public Works of Art Project.
The Cenotaph contains the names of those killed in the Great War, while the Memorial Wall behind it maintains the names of those killed in the Second World War.
(eds.), Regionale Zivilgesellschaft in Bewegung - Cittadini innanzi tutto, Vienna-Bolzano: Folio Verlag, pp.
She finds she works 8–10 hours in studio, and then must work on administrative matters with projects and art institutions.
Following the theft, Elephant Family founder Mark Shand was reported as saying that the other eggs had been secured and were now "unstealable." On 28 February, it was reported in the Evening Standard that the "Egg Letter Box" had also been recovered by police.
An outer circle for automotive traffic surrounds a second sunken circle for bicycles and motorscooters; ramps from the bicycle lanes along the nearby streets lead into the lower circle via four underpasses.
to utilize a specific seating arrangement that provided a view of the 120-foot backstage area through an industrial passageway within the false proscenium.
The largest piece of Wing Generator extends approximately three feet from the center of the sculpture while a smaller spade-shaped piece extends one foot from the center in the opposite direction.
The statue was finally installed at Lázně Bohdaneč, a spa resort where occupying Soviet troops were located until the early 1990s (location: 50°4′9.426″N 15°40′58.42″E).
In July 2012 artists from around the world presented their vision of Yekaterinburg using the theme "Global Intelligence".
Darebin Council allocated $10,000 in its 2011-12 budget for a report on how to restore the artwork and then a further $80,000 in the 2012-13 budget for the mural's conservation and restoration, after it had become dilapidated from weather and an occasional target of graffiti vandals.
Other elements include a Juventus jersey draped over a chair in the corner, which is an homage to Mick Wallace, an Italophile and avid football fan.
The process started with the architect's or designer's sketches and drawings; sculptors created original models in the factory, usually of clay and sized about 14% larger than the final product to allow for shrinkage.
Due to the unusual circumstances of their acquisition they had become separated from any instructions as to their intended layout, and also from at least one other group of statues in what was originally intended to be a larger statue complex or complexes.
During this month, several unmarried women get up before dawn, and draw a rangoli to welcome the deity.
Another mural in Germany that attracted international attention was entitled "The Flower Salesman" which depicts a Syrian child called Fares that used to sell flowers in Beirut and died during the Syrian Civil War.
Through their collaboration, Hsu and Nordgulen hope to create a functioning piece of artwork that will generate energy.
The amount of water available from the collector is typically related more to the surface water source than to the piezometric surface of the aquifer.
Bibliography Paris et ses Fontaines, del la Renaissance a nos jours, edited by beatrice de Andia, Dominique Massounie, Pauline Prevost-Marcilhacy and Daniel Rabreau, from the Collection Paris et son Patrimoine, Paris, 1995.
Nut shells also have an equal affinity for water and oil, allowing oil to be adsorbed during normal operation, but also enable oil removed from the bed during agitation allowing for media reuse.
Using measurements and Cranach portraits from the Wittenberg Luther Museum's curator, Martin Treu, Krabbenhoeft employed forensic technology to create a Luther from 1501, the age of an entering freshman at Concordia.
Locations They are most commonly found in Southern France and western France, Catalonia, Corsica, Sardinia, Italy and the Alps.
Artists The technical execution as well as the iconography indicate that the artists who made the Romanesque murals were well educated.
The list applies only to works of public art accessible in an outdoor public space; it does not include artwork on display inside museums.
The motif of an encircled marigold cross, also called the cross-of-arcs, was common in the British Isles, but what made these unique was the inclusion of a smaller Latin cross, which was only seen in one other place in Ireland: Ferns, another monastic site not too far up the eastern coast.
Series overview Episodes Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 References External links Sur les murs on TV5MondePlus
With a length of 100 meters, the mural is mounted on the hall’s southwest wall, which runs along Concourse 1 of the historic main rail station (Hall 1).
The Night of the arts is an art festival, where art-related events happen in various places all around the city.
Stoneware wind chimes are also more durable and able to resist stronger winds without suffering chipping or damage.
620 trees were planted on a wide range of streets between 2004 and 2006, by Coillte, Ballymun Regeneration and the city council, and the plaques installed adjacent to each, 32 cm from the ground.
Significantly, the brewery suspended production for two hours to facilitate employee participation in the dedication event.
Yazan subsequently evolved his style to paint images, words and letters that have an oriental touch and inspiration.
See also 1922 in art References External links Media related to Angel of Victory at Wikimedia Commons
Horwitt comes through as one of the strongest young sculptures around." Horwitt's works appear in many public and private collections, including those of Nelson Rockefeller, Vera and Albert List, and Helen and Robert Benjamin.
The mural covers the exterior of a preserved stairwell from the now demolished building of the Necker-Enfants Malades Hospital in Paris, France.
It is located at Lincoln Park in Jersey City, New Jersey, near the beginning of the Lincoln Highway.
Mitchell said of his work: "Hockley flyover was one of the greatest things that ever happened in this country because it was the first of its kind and certainly of its scale." == References ==
Needle, Thread and Knot (Italian: Ago, Filo e Nodo) is a public artwork in two parts by Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen in Piazzale Cadorna, Milan, Italy.
A derivative sculpture was created by recycling the cut away elements; this work is installed nearby at Ben's Cycle and Fitness, maker of Milwaukee Bicycles.
It is one of three statues of John Cabot in Canada; the others are both in Newfoundland at Confederation Building in St.
The work's imagery invites viewers "into a dream-like narrative dealing with the geological and cultural history of the location." == References ==
Stencil graffiti is illegal in some jurisdictions, and many of the members of this subculture shroud their identities in aliases.
The bust is 21 inches (530 mm) tall by 17 inches (430 mm) wide (shoulder to shoulder) and has a depth of 12 inches (300 mm).
Sand mandala (Tibetan: དཀྱིལ་འཁོར།, Wylie: dkyil 'khor, THL kyinkhor; Chinese: 沙壇城/壇城沙畫) is a Tibetan Buddhist tradition involving the creation and destruction of mandalas made from colored sand.
Conversations with Magic Stones, Figure Three is a public art work by English artist Barbara Hepworth located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Robert Indiana's pop art Love design was originally produced as a print for a Museum of Modern Art Christmas card in 1965.
Other murals also created by Ríos Rey located in the Ponce YMCA and Edificio Empresas Ferré have also been distinguished by the National Park Service and listed into the NRHP.
Among other activities, the PSSA aims to continue and complete the published county-by-county survey of UK public sculpture begun by the PMSA.
Glendale, California: in January 2014, city officials solicited proposals from artists to paint murals on 26 utility boxes downtown, as part of a greater effort to make the city more arts-friendly like fellow Los Angeles suburbs Santa Monica and Pasadena.
The frieze was bought at auction by the British Museum in 1815 where it is now on permanent display in a specially constructed room in Gallery 16.
Cattle rubbing stones were often made from harder stone such as whinstone or granite depending on the geology of the area concerned.
While there she started the first visiting artist program to bring contemporary artists to speak at the school.
The studio has also completed three installations for the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival: Copper Droopscape in 2008, Elastic Plastic Sponge in 2009, and Pulp Pavilion in 2015.
Epifanie, 2011–14, is a long-term project about processes and practices of art, that criticize the concepts of homeland and citizenship.
Acqua Grylli is a public art work by American artist Beth Sahagian, located on the Riverwalk in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The gallery of frescoes was included on the French Ministry of Culture's list of historical monuments on 28 December 1984, along with other architectural elements of the gare de Lyon.
Documentation A Museum Studies course at IUPUI recently undertook the project of researching and reporting on the condition of 40 outdoor sculptures on the university campus.
The Tomb of Paweł Holszański is a Renaissance sculptural effigy of the Bishop of Vilnius Paweł Holszański (died 1555), located in Vilnius Cathedral.
The Lovers is a public art work by artist Lindsay Daen located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Graphene coated nanofilter Graphene is chemically dormant, mechanically sturdy, and non-permeable to gas or liquid.
Instead it's often hypothesized that many human gargoyles were meant to be criticisms of the common church attendee, a mirror into one's own sin or wrongdoings used for introspection.
The figures, two male and two female, balance along the top edge of a winding brick wall surrounded by a garden.
The festival had notable Guinness World Record holders Edgar Mueller from Germany, Leon Keer from the Netherlands, and Tracy Lee Stum from the USA.
The newest, and largest, biofilter addition to Plum Creek cost $9.5 million, yet even though this new technology is expensive, in the long run it will cost less overtime than the alternative exhaust-cleaning incinerators fueled by natural gas (which are not as environmentally friendly).
The pro-scaligers uprising provoked a strong repression by the Venetian Republic resulting in many rebels being sentenced to death by hanging, a detail well depicted in the same fresco.
The obelisk is a project of the Italian-Brazilian sculptor Galileo Ugo Emendabili, who arrived in Brazil in 1923.
Influenced by his mentor, William Faville, and Arthur and Lucia Mathews, popular decor artists in the area, Wagner began to learn and collect art from around the world.
His work includes religious statuary, commissioned public artworks, and architectural sculpture projects.
According to Mehdi Ben Cheikh, founder of the project and director of Itinerrance de Paris gallery, Djerbahood represents "a unique artistic adventure in the world of urban arts, and an effervescence movement in a developing country".
This reputation stems from Tartu being home to the nation's oldest and most renowned university, the University of Tartu.
Receiving a message on their mobile device that there is traffic ahead with a suggested alternative route.
During the 1990s, the city set up a sorting center for recycling and a power plant to convert the biogas extracted from the landfill site into electricity.
The Green Cathedral is 150 m (490 ft) long and 75 m (246 ft) wide, and the mature poplar trees are about 30 m (98 ft) tall.
External funding partners The Meridians project was supported by the Commonwealth of Australia through the Australian International Cultural Council and the Australia-China Council, initiatives of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel architecture critic Whitney Gould called the project, "part sculpture, part signpost." == References ==
Similar to other sculptures by Smith, Moses mixes anthropomorphism (human scale and characteristics) with geometry.
magazine CutBack official website Archived 29 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine Young, Alison (2013).
Mindebrønden (Memorial Fountain) is a fountain in stone and bronze, located in the small Greenlandic town of Qaqortoq, formerly Julianehåb, in southern Greenland.
However, in some cases they were carved out of harder rocks like basalt, or even granite in the case of the unfinished obelisk in Egypt.
An appraisal made by Art Resource Technical Service in 2004 valued the sculpture at $50,000 ($85,227 in 2025 dollars).
Completed in 1971, it is a representation of Olive Risley Seward (1841–1908), the foster daughter of William H.
Following public display, the sculptures were auctioned off, with proceeds benefiting Oregon Health & Science University's Doernbecher Children's Hospital.
Pere Jacques Marquette is a public art work by American artist Tom Queoff, located in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
In the summer of 2020 during the height of the Black Lives Matter movement, Cape Girardeau's mayor Bob Fox asked the Cape Girardeau Historic Preservation Commission for advice on what to do with the memorial, as many people had submitted petitions for and against the structure's removal.
The Act "made provision for securing the supply to the Metropolis of pure and wholesome water", and required that all water be "effectually filtered" from 31 December 1855.
The highest bid on the night was £25,000, paid by the Chairman of National Museums Liverpool for 'Mandy' Mandala Superlambanana, designed and created by Cheshire artist Patricia Lee, whilst Phil Redmond, creative director of the Liverpool Culture Company, purchased four lots for a total of £55,000.
Fountain or syke is in the terminology of heraldry a roundel depicted as a roundel barry wavy argent and azure, that is, containing alternating horizontal wavy bands of silver (or white) and blue.
See also List of works by Banksy List of works by Banksy that have been damaged or destroyed == References ==
The project included an opening gala, environmental education in public schools, and a children's contest, "Cool Globes for Cool Kids", which exhibited in the Chicago Children's Museum.
There are a few variations of shape, but the three most common shapes of cow were created by Pascal Knapp, a Swiss-born sculptor who was commissioned to create the cows specifically for the CowParade series of events.
The Pellegrini Chapel is located in the apse area of the basilica of Santa Anastasia in Verona, along the right transept; it is the first to the right of the Maggiore Chapel.
A steel leveling plate was used to mount each letter into a 46” x 18” x ¼” base plate configuration using gussets, vinyl tape, and silicone.
The models were stored in the crypt of the Capitol until they were cast in 1904 and installed in 1905.
The metopes of the Parthenon have largely lost their fully rounded elements, except for heads, showing the advantages of relief in terms of durability.
During the 2011 Libyan civil war, the sculpture was frequently noted in media coverage of televised speeches given by Gaddafi on 22 February and 20 March 2011, in which he vowed to "die a martyr" to prevent anti-government rebels prevailing.
History During the 2004 "North Carolina Main Street" 24th Annual Awards Banquet, Pigs in the City won Best Downtown Special Event for their first event in 2003.
Daniel Chester French (1850–1931) was an American sculptor who was active in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
Vila Madalena received thousands of tourists during the 2014 FIFA World Cup and there was a corresponding rise in reported incidents of robbery and assault in and around Beco do Batman during the period (2013–2014).
It meets the subject head-on." Troublemakers has a score of 94% on Rotten Tomatoes and 65% on Metacritic.
Archaeologist Marina Kilunovskaya points out that kereksurs correspond to the Indo-Iranian structure of a segmented ring (e.g., exemplified by Arkaim).
Cristo del Pacífico, "the Christ of the Pacific", is a 37-metre-high (121 ft) statue of Jesus erected in Lima, Peru, in 2011.
The walk was created by the NSW Ministry for the Arts in 1991, and the series was extended when a further 11 plaques were added in 2011.
Van Wyk (1994) suggests that the more modern and "intricate curvilinear designs have a distinctly Victorian or Edwardian flavor that was probably influenced by such turn-of-the-century European products as linoleum patterns, cast-iron moldings and lace".
In 2009 the sculpture made an appearance in the film Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian.
The goal of the street art festival is to generally provide a national arena for artists to showcase their finished pieces.
The corn was harvested in November and December 2005, allowed to dry and put on display in the nearby empty Capital Milling Co.
According to a prominent former detective, southern Californian gangs usually use "S-13" or "SUR" and "S" would likely not be associated with the Sureños.
The latest style that has surfaced is the use of translucency to create an x-ray effect in his works.
Župevc, an amateur woodworker employed as a pipelayer, carved the statue out of a poplar tree using a chainsaw.
The Kangla (with diacritic, Kanglā), officially known as the Kangla Fort, is an old fortified palace at Imphal, in the Manipur state of India.
The practice has its origins Jewish practice of performing ablutions before entering into the presence of God (cf.
References External links Steven Siegel official website Steven Siegel public art, CODAworks Steven Siegel's Evolutionary Art, video, Chronogram
The pop-up installation "Hostile Terrain" is based on the multi-media exhibition of the same name co-produced by Michael Wells and Lucy Cahill.
Stopping in Tuas at the end of their "Song Song to Jurong" event, a co-founder of the group, Woon Taiwoon, pasted a "Pedal Until Shiok" sticker on the lamp post.
Using this system, readers were able to earn money for every quiz about featured news they correctly completed, and journalists were able to claim compensation for their work.
The choreography of the fountains was combined with light, and, for the first time, with music, amplified from loudspeakers from eleven rafts anchored in the river.
The Italian past participle sgraffiato is also used for this technique, especially in reference to pottery.
Rist's work is known for its multi-sensory qualities, with overlapping projected imagery that is highly saturated with color, paired with sound components that are part of a larger environment with spaces for viewers to rest or lounge.
That term in turn is based on wardialing, the practice of dialing many phone numbers hoping to find a modem.
References External links Official site for Troublemakers: The Story of Land Art Troublemakers at Rotten Tomatoes Troublemakers at IMDb Official site for James Crump James Crump at IMDb First Run Features
The Confederate War Memorial is a memorial to Confederate soldiers located behind the Common Pleas Courthouse in Cape Girardeau, Missouri.
An indicator that a stone is used by cattle for alleviating skin irritation is the polished appearance of the areas that have been used by many generations of cattle over the years.
Additionally, there was an exhibition of 70 mini-wolves sculptures, designed and painted by pupils from 35 primary schools, community groups and artists, on display at Wolverhampton Art Gallery for the duration of the event.
Pliny mentions a highly valued bronze dog surviving in Rome into his lifetime, before being lost in AD 69: ...
The artwork consists of three red rectilinear shapes intersecting each other and resting on concrete pads.
Among many considerations, it proposes the best locations for installations of public art to provide visual anchors at gateways, to accentuate main axis corridors, and to clarify patchy architectural edges.
It has been suggested that flatus is in fact the Latin for fart, or that it is a corruption of the Icelandic term for Pthirus pubis.
The former reflects sunlight into the concourse which minimises the need for artificial lighting, while the latter deflects sun rays, which cools the platform by up to four degrees less than its surroundings.
The viewer's silhouette is temporarily frozen on a wall covered with phosphorescent paint until being erased by the next flash.
In November 2004, a circle of postholes 7 metres (23 ft) in diameter was found in Russia and publicised as the Russian Stonehenge.
The first graduate student in film to graduate from School of the Art Institute of Chicago, Hock cites two early influences in Stan Brakhage and Nam June Paik.
The design utilizes touch sensor technology to allow each cylinder in the design to play sounds when touched.
Deputy city manager Richard Phillips concurred, comparing the vandalism of the Kook to school pranksters dressing up a school's mascot, stating that "it gets old" and that city time and money could be better spent fixing potholes than cleaning up pranks.
Above the main statue, there is a bronze eagle that represents one of the former coats of arms of the country.
One example of this is the group Irreverentes, who tagged the internationally-known Christ the Redeemer statue in Rio de Janeiro.
Peculiarities The text consistently displays typographical errors, such as using hyphens for rules, and underlinings for italics or emphatic spacing; and there are regular spelling mistakes, such as “Vilejløst” for “viljeløst”.
These include a variety of different types of graffiti, such as abecedaria, kalos inscriptions, insults, marks of ownership, commercial notations, dedications, Christian inscriptions, messages, lists and pictures.
Snyder also completed four public commissions that were community based collaborations with children, including My Time, Stockton, California, Fantasy Island, Sunnyvale, California, Hey Buddy – Seen Any Moose?
The Italian prefix 's-' originates in the Latin prefix 'ex-', and is used in this case to intensify the basic meaning, so that 'to scratch' becomes 'to scratch off'.
In 1927, Wagner moved to San Francisco and went to work as a draftsman for the architectural firm of Bliss & Faville.
The circle rests directly on the ground, and the squiggle rises from its top, reaching out vertically and slightly diagonally.
Women from the region sometimes sell miniature 'Asiri houses as souvenirs and bric-à-brac, which are popular among Saudi city-dwellers, who find these colorful houses a source of wonder.
Biography He studied at Montserrat School of Visual Art (now Montserrat College of Art) and at Massachusetts College of Art.
Ethnographer Boma Johnson has tried to place the figures in context of Yuman oral history and cosmology.
2012 Paris: United Buddy Bears are on show near the Eiffel Tower to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the twinning of Paris and Berlin and the 50th anniversary of the Élysée Treaty which marked the official reconciliation between France and Germany after world war two.
Description The sculpture has an abstract form that combines an open circle and a squiggle forged in Cor-ten steel.
The concept has been attributed to Lauren O'Farrell (who creates her street art under the graffiti knitting name Deadly Knitshade), from London, UK, who founded the city's first graffiti knitting collective Knit the City.
Snyder was a recipient of the National Endowment for the Arts projects grant in 1973, which enabled him to obtain special permission to visit and study the closed to the public Lascaux Cave in France and the prehistoric rock drawings in Val Camonica, Italy.
Hubei Style Hubei Penjing (湖北盆景) emphasizes on the producing the sense of dynamic feelings by the static plants and rocks, and thus also called Dynamic Penjing (动势盆景).
This solves the problem of keeping the hydraulist warm, as well as keeping the hydraulic fluid (e.g.
Studio work (2000– ) In the 2000s, Siegel shifted his emphasis to studio work, producing abstract work inspired by evolutionary processes that ranged from intimate sculpture to ambitious multimedia installations.
It continued to be an important laboratory for outdoor sculpture, with over 200 artists and collectives creating art and installations at the site between 1974 and 1984.
Based in Guelph, Ontario, she is a five-time sand sculpting world champion and has been a judge on the reality television show Race Against the Tide since 2021.
His art was exhibited internationally, including in Panama (2015), Israel (2017), and France (2019).
History Sculpture gardens have a long history: the oldest known collection of human constructions is the Neanderthal site inside Bruniquel Cave dated to approximately 175,000 years ago.
Construction of the stone column was awarded through tender in December 1936 to Silvester and Company, who started work the following month.
There are at least four major types of gallery grave (complex, transepted, segmented, and wedge-shaped), and they may be covered with an earthen mound (or "tumulus") or rock mound (or "cairn").
Former Slovenian member of parliament Igor Omerza thought it could be seen as a sign of the country's "love-hate" relationship with President Trump, depicting either the raised hand of the Statue of Liberty or the iron fist of a populist dictator.
During the ceremony, Frick said: Honus Wagner as an individual contributed as much as any man who ever lived in baseball.
As a trombonist, Parker has premiered over 200 new works, with a focus on extended techniques and electronic augmentation.
This small building was therefore conceived as a public and paying fountain, as well as a food outlet.
Widths are the following for each of the letters represented in the sculpture: "I" is 11.5 inches, "U" is 26.125 inches, and the "P" is 25 inches.
When the murals were listed, the regional director for Historic England said "The murals at Hockley Circus are among the best examples of William Mitchell's work and showcase his playful and lively style to great effect.
Smith office building near West Hopkins Street and North 27th Street in the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Many pichadores (pichação painters) compete to paint in high and inaccessible places, using such techniques as free climbing and abseiling to reach the locations.
Archaic Period In the middle of the 6th century BCE, the Achaemenid Persian Empire, led by Cyrus the Great, conquered most of the polities that existed at that time across western Anatolia, most notably the Lydian kingdom of Croesus.
The piece in Linz, Austria, occupies a space of nearly 900 m2 (9,700 sq ft), and was painted in 65 days without assistance.
He had created a stamp and poster, Aidez l'Espagne, earlier in 1937, which depicted a Catalan peasant wearing a traditional red hat (barretina) and shaking his fist.
The incoming flow of magma filled the cracks and fissures in the stone and formed into a plug of molten rock.
The work, far from exalting a hero or historical event, showed the everyday and banal, generating rejection for its anti-aesthetic and prosaic character.
It is common for women of an entire village to apply litema on such special occasions as a wedding or a religious ceremony.
He is best known by his trademark: "Lock Ons" which are site-specific sculptures or statues, typically welded in recycled iron and chained in the street without permission, often mounted to urban furniture with a bicycle lock.
He was a contemporary of the celebrated Pardhaan artist Jangarh Singh Shyam and began his artistic career from Bharat Bhavan, Bhopal.
The bust was placed in the Indiana statehouse on November 18, 2008, and the great-great-grandson of Benjamin Harrison, Kimball Morsman, was in attendance.
Bunting's work has been compared to the work of Allan Kaprow, one of the pioneers in performance art.
He grew up in Chicago, IL, and graduated in 1981 from Cooper Union, on New York City's Lower East Side.
The painting begins with boldly colored trees, rocks, and sky that develop into an urban environment with a mix of natural elements.
Dan Witz paintings have been shown in galleries worldwide; including Jonathan LeVine Gallery, in Chelsea, New York; Stolen Space Gallery, London, England; Carmichael Gallery, Los Angeles, CA; Addict Galley, Paris, France; White Walls, San Francisco, and DFN Gallery New York.
As a result of this art collectors began to get street artists to do commissioned pieces of art for them which lead to graffiti becoming a viable option for street artists to earn some money.
World's Largest Interactive Graffiti Wall In September 2009 YrWall was used to create the 'World's Largest Interactive Graffiti Wall' at the Bristol Festival, UK.
For this reason, all projects should begin with a conservation plan that incorporates research in such topics as the history of the windows or building, the materials involved, and past alterations, as a key element of all conservation decisions.
As of August 2022, over 2,300 Group Actions had taken place, with nearly 500,000 posters printed and shipped to 148 countries.
His work was inspired by pavings he had seen during his time as a wandering journeyman in southern France.
According to the activists, they were afraid of the outbreak of war, and they chose such a place for the action because a month earlier, Putin laid a wreath there at the Motherland monument and the activists wanted to “expel him from there in order to return this cemetery to the dead”.
After experiencing the water deficit first hand, he promised to construct at his expense ample water facilities.
The final statues were nicknamed Navigator, Ally the Snowbird Gator, Gator Del Sol, G3000 and Sir Lids-A lot.
Meridians was supported by the Government of Victoria (Australia) through the Department of Innovation, Industry and Regional Development (DIIRD), and Arts Victoria.
History The memorial cost $35,000, and was funded by public school children, citizens of Chicago and the B.
After the Second World War, Marini developed a horse and rider theme, where the figure is not in control of his mount.
The Albuquerque Arts Alliance and the City of Albuquerque became the second fiscal sponsor, providing an office in the historical Kimo Theater on Route 66.
Wolves in Wolves was a public art exhibition which took place in Wolverhampton, England, between 5 July and 24 September 2017.
Above the long basin were two smaller basins, linked with the lower basin by casades flanked by 32 sprays of water four meter high, in vasques.
For her stop on the LakeviewS tour, Gilbert created “Biography of a House,” which consisted of a 300 ft ribbon of family photos wrapped around the flood line of her mother's home, accompanied by a sound installation of home tape recordings from Gilbert's childhood.
The design carries further influences from Mesoamerican architecture, Italian gardens, and surrealism.
The standard A to E range, in which it is possible to play with polyphonic embouchure on any or all diatonic notes at the same time, is shown on the left side of the diagram.
Many people called in and he witnessed as casual passers-by engaged in conversations with strangers who were perhaps halfway across the world.
In a conversation with The Philadelphia Inquirer, Morasco discussed how Toynbee's book contained a theory on bringing dead molecules back to life and that this was later depicted in the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey.
The worker raises the "Red Letter" of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea, and the peasant holds a sheaf of rice.
See also List of the tallest statues in the United States Avalokiteśvara Guanyin Bodhisattva Buddhism References External links Chùa Việt Nam | Vietnamese Buddhist Center Official Website
The area around of the monument has been renovated and a park was built on an area of 2,300 square meters.
Description The mural measured approximately 75 feet wide and was painted in a matter of a week in August 1972.
The work was developed to directly challenge conservative arguments that migrant workers constitute a negative drain on the state's resources.
The music video for Amanda Palmer's interpretation of Pink Floyd's "Mother" was filmed at Opus 40 in 2017.
One of the artists, George Stanley, was also the creator of the famous "Oscar" statuette presented at the Academy Awards.
The response varies globally, from punitive measures and censorship to appreciation and encouragement, reflecting the political climate and freedom of expression within each context.
All of the figures were applied in thick black lines, at close-range and without preliminary sketches, over free-form shapes of bright yellows, greens, blues and reds.
In modern times, plain white stones are ground down and dyed with opaque inks to achieve the same effect.
In the 1990s the Assembly of First Nations protested the subservient placement of the Indian Scout in relation to Samuel de Champlain, and successfully lobbied for it to be removed from the monument.
They were carved in the fin de siècle style from white Carrara marble and probably came from Italy in the late nineteenth century or very early twentieth century.
As part of the “Pacific Standard Time” event in 2011, a trailer of the cinemural was fabricated for screening inside the Getty Center galleries then traveled to the Martin-Gropius Bau in Berlin.
Starke Memorial is a public art work by American artist Robert Ingersoll Aitken, located in the Forest Home Cemetery on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The Deo Gracias Fresco in the Heiligen Geist Kirche (1326) in Wismar is a fresco that depicts a mathematical-logical puzzle made up of letters.
Advertisement posters The posters used are typically made of a lightweight paper and printed using flexography, digital printing and screen printing.
The image was created by Firas Alkhateeb in January 2009, and portrays Obama as DC comic book supervillain the Joker, based on the portrayal by Heath Ledger in The Dark Knight (2008).
The eventual idea settled on, was to build upon the Superlambanana artwork, which had over time come to be recognised as a symbol of Liverpool in itself.
Canadian Forestry Corps – Located by the Harding Memorial, the corps is commemorated by a plaque and three oak trees from Windsor, England.
It was painted with the assistance of Haring's then boyfriend and member of the House of Xtravaganza Juan Rivera.
A quilt trail is a series of barn quilts (painted wood or metal hung or freestanding quilt squares) installed along a route emphasizing significant architecture and/or aesthetic landscapes.
The Metropolitan Commission of Sewers was formed at the same time, water filtration was adopted throughout the country, and new water intakes on the Thames were established above Teddington Lock.
Art Souterrain (otherwise known as underground art) is a non-profit organization which exhibits artworks in Montreal's underground city.
Romanus subdued the creature with a crucifix, or he captured the creature with the help of the only volunteer, a condemned man.
Seven also volunteers at WormFreeZone and has taught classes at British Council and Goethe Institute workshops.
Location The memorial is located on a rock knoll adjacent to State Highway 73 near the highest point of the pass.
Warfare has been offered a possible explanation as to the spread along the Colorado River of ceremonies such as the keruk and the similar style of desert intaglios.
Fire and Water is a public art work by American artist John Luttropp, located on the southwest side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The apostles were portrayed by Dubliners from a variety of professions, including a tattoo artist, a librarian, an actor, a travel centre employee, an ecologist, a building worker, a network analyst, and various other students.
They completed the mural over the course of three days without the use of preparatory sketches, using a crane to suspend themselves from the top of the structure.
By inviting both local and international artists to cover facades of neglected buildings with large-scale murals — especially around Calle Cerra and Calle Hoare — the initiative helped turn these streets into a vibrant open-air gallery.
Gators, having a cultural significance in Gainesville—through its presence as the University of Florida's mascot—and Florida in general, were chosen for the series.
In 2001, artists painted approximately 350 bears to appear as decorative elements in the streets of Berlin.
The Department of Conservation maintains the Arthur's Pass Walking Track that connects Arthur's Pass village to the memorial at the mountain pass; the 6.8 kilometres (4.2 mi) trip (one way) takes 2 hours 40 minutes for a return trip.
Furthermore, political street art can create a sense of community and solidarity, helping to galvanize social and political movements.
Queen of Sheba is a public art work by artist Alexander Archipenko located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Windfall is a public art work by Canadian artist Robert Murray located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
In popular culture The building has been used as a location in the films Man elsker kun een gang (1945) and Olsen-banden går amok (1973).
Creation In order to get to the appropriate height and maintain the mural's secrecy during its creation, scaffolding was erected against the wall, covered by tarpaulin.
The Bicentennial Monument is a series of granite tablets describing the history of Oklahoma City, installed in the city's Bicentennial Park, in the U.S.
The nickname dates from the mid–19th century, when the Cincinnati meat packing industry led the country.
3-D sidewalk chalk sets, in which each stick of chalk is created with two particular colors that appear 3-dimensional when viewed through the 3-D glasses that come with the chalk, also exist.
The term Achill-henge can be interpreted as a reference to the cultural inaccuracy of the structure in local context as typically henges are simply referred to as stone circles in Ireland.
In January 2020, the demolition of Brockton High School resulted in a 118,400 sq ft lot of sand and gravel.
Reaction Media coverage The image went largely unnoticed until an unknown person began placing posters of the image, with the added label "socialism," throughout downtown Los Angeles.
Philip Larkin Larkin was born in Coventry and lived in Hull while he was head librarian at the Brynmor Jones Library from 1955 until his death in 1985.
Kai Nielsen's sculpture of Ursus and the Bull was positioned on the roof from the beginning but was not gilded until 1949.
For example, stone klinai (death couches) imitated Greek wooden originals in shape and painted decoration.
The visual passage at the nexus of the work is centered around the Apparition at Knock in Knock, Ireland in 1879, which is commemorated today by the Knock Shrine.
The art of storytelling circulated among people, in a family form, before the Halqa of the storyteller of Jemaa El-Fna square became one of the most important constituent elements of the activities of this square.
During early November 2014 Robin Barton and Bankrobber London organized the removal of Art Buff from its Folkestone location following requests from the owners of the wall, and announced plans to put it up for sale in aid of a cancer charity set up in memory of Jimmy Godden.
Reception Writing in The Telegraph in 2006 upon the painting's unveiling, Serena Davies described the individual panels as "some bright, some pastel some frenetic, some calm" that produce a "wave-like effect across the trajectory of the painting".
In an effort to discourage illegal flyposting, surfaces at risk of it are sometimes permanently signed Post No Bills (US), No Flyposting (UK), or Défense d'afficher - loi du 29 juillet 1881 (France), a reference to a law passed in 1881 that regulates the display of advertisements in public spaces.
The film won positive reviews, and Washington's small role was labelled as "adequate support" by critics, as the film enjoyed a successful run commercially.
The screens were powered by Beagle Boards running custom software and 3G connections to receive art content and upload sensor-based information.
Her first tertiary studies were in psychology and sociology, and then she turned to graphic design and did some travelling.
Afterward, the pianos are donated to schools, community centers, hospitals, nursing homes and other organizations in need.
In the spring of 2014 Rubin painted a large mural outside the Domino Sugar Factory in Williamsburg, Brooklyn as part of the "Domino Walls"-project and under curatorial advisement by Brooklyn Street Art.
When showing his work in galleries and museums, he focuses on finding a coherent way to show street art in private spaces.
Sud Obelisk, also makes reference to the burial, which as a rite is an integral part of Cameroonian life.
The area surrounding the piece, a former gravel pit overlooking the Kent Valley outside of Seattle, has been rapidly filled in with urban growth, leading to efforts to both protect it and to enhance public access and enjoyment.
Online public art databases can be general or selective (limited to sculptures or murals), and they can be governmental, quasi-governmental, or independent.
"Pink tank" returns to Prague, floating on river External links The complicated history of Prague's Tank No.
Attractions East side of the park The following attractions are found east of the causeway: 9 O'Clock Gun – Fires every day at 21:00.
Although his hypothesis was proven incorrect, it marked the beginning of a new interest in the field.
In later centuries, sebils became elaborately decorated structures, either attached to mosque complexes or existing as stand-alone structures, often at busy intersections or street corners.
Mellon Foundation in 2021 for the project as part of the foundation's initiative The Monuments Project.
Social Influences Seven, together with Socially Africa, co-founded "Art For A Cause" which is an initiative that uses Art to inspire children.
Traditionally Bhaisajyaguru Buddha (Yaoshi fo) is considered as the Buddha of medicine (both physically and spiritually) in Mahayana Buddhism.
The statue, made of bronze, was created in 1985 by Barbadian-Guyanese sculptor Karl Broodhagen 20 years after the island's independence.
It was launched on the ITV programme This Morning on 26 March 2018, and remained there for five days.
Rangoli is also created using coloured powdered quartz, rice, dry flour, flower petals, turmeric (pasupu), vermillion (sindooram) and coloured sand.
The names of cadets and professors who died while at the academy during its earliest days are inscribed upon the monument.
The program has been very successful, and paid artists have painted over 375 boxes in the city as of 2021.
The Parable is a public artwork by American artist Jimilu Mason, located at The Festival Center at 1640 Columbia Road, N.W.
Ashby, A Topographical Dictionary of rome, 1929: "Nymphaeum" External links Media related to Nymphaea (architecture) at Wikimedia Commons
The bronze, cast in Rome at Alessandro Nelli's foundry, is located in the east garden of Mount Vernon Place, Baltimore.
Monument Lab co-founder Paul Farber invited professor and critic Salamishah Tillet to co-curate the exhibition with him.
The artist also has done outdoor sculpture work in Springfield, Illinois, and other cities around the Midwest.
It is located in front of the City of Milwaukee Department of Public Works (DPW) Field Headquarters northwest of downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Sometimes they have simply been damaged, while at other times they have been painted pink, become zebras, become skeletal, had pyjama bottoms added, have been beheaded, have acquired BSE (mad cow disease) graffiti, had one of the calves kidnapped (with ransom notes to the local papers).
The display had long been frowned upon by local conservatives; likeminded ministers under Najib Razak's government in 2010 released a statement discouraging the practice while moving the venue for future commemorations of Warriors' Day since to Merdeka Square and National Heroes Square.
(District of Columbia))", wikimapia "The Mary Mcleod Bethune Emancipation Memorial" Robert Pohl (July 7, 2009).
Those nanocellulose materials are used to remove organic pollutants in water such as dyes, oils and pesticides traces present in water.
The art movement known as Yaucromatic emerged in the town of Yauco, Puerto Rico in 2017 as an ambitious public-art intervention designed to transform the urban landscape through bold color, community involvement and mural‐scale works.
It is designed to withstand the elements of a busy London street including rain, pigeons and the threat of vandalism.
La folle journée street art à Beyrouth (2023) — major participatory project commissioned by the Institut Français du Liban, featuring 40 artworks across Beirut.
Through art, they aim to raise awareness and increase conversations regarding rights, sharing experiences and reclaiming spaces.
Knight intended to live in it, though he always preferred to live in a shack on the back of his truck, and did so for 27 years.
Artwork and style In 2007, Yazan started experimenting with graffiti benefiting from the loose regulation towards graffiti in Beirut.
Because of this constraint, waiting times were routinely upwards of several hours and could extend to the entire day.
The Museum of Outdoor Sculpture of Alcala de Henares (Museo de Escultura al Aire Libre de Alcalá de Henares) is a permanent exhibition of contemporary art in public Alcalá de Henares (Madrid — Spain), opened in 1993 and organized by the sculptor José Noja.
This stone pillar was to have a core of reinforced concrete, with local stone attached to form the obelisk.
See also List of Norwegian artists Hyperrealism (visual arts) List of street artists List of pseudonyms References Further reading DOT DOT DOT (front cover), Omar Robert Hamilton (writer): Stadt der Rebellion ISBN 978-3-8031-3294-9 Berlin: Wagenbach Verlag (2018).
Subsequently, a bill was introduced into the Legislature of Puerto Rico to eliminate public art from Puerto Rico roads.
It was formerly situated on both sides (western and eastern) of the bank of the Imphal River, now remaining only on the western side in ruined conditions.
It replaced the original arch that was built by lumber workers in 1912 as organized labour's contribution to the celebration of a visit by the Duke of Connaught.
In 2009, a new mayor was sitting in City Hall, and the family said that it expected to be able to erect the giant snowman without interference.
The archway itself has the dimensions of 2.5’ in length, 1’ in width, and 11’ tall (to the top of the final tier).
Despite the geological seclusion, the murals have rich content, from countryside view to global history.
La Familia (Spanish for 'The Family') is a mural by Puerto Rican muralist Rafael Ríos Rey located in the Barrio Obrero Community Center (Centro de Servicios Múltiples de Barrio Obrero) in Santurce, in the city of San Juan, Puerto Rico.
They vary from non-confrontational persuading used by vegetarian activists, to boycotts, blockades, street marches or (in a few instances) "guerrilla" tactics used by anarchistic youth organisations, organised community groups and/or unorganised protesters.
Maestro Madonnaro Edgar Mueller created a 100' x 40' 3D street painting that is the first known contemporary street painting that metamorphosed from one image to another with the change from day to night because the painter used photoluminescent paints.
She carves her sculptures in a backyard woodworking studio, using the machinery she inherited from her toy-making family.
This graphic design firm seeks sustainable solutions to problems of wayfinding, information, and visioning.
As a form of installation and place-based art, ContainerArt was part of an emerging practice of re-purposing shipping containers in urban environments and shipping container art.
Muchołapka, a 10 metres tall dodecagonal concrete ring structure with a diameter of 30 metres, which was built during World War II near Ludwikowice Kłodzkie, Lower Silesia, Poland, is nicknamed "Hitler's Stonehenge".
According to the former director of public art for the city and county, the two pieces are the major earthworks in King County.
As a result, artists have created several large and impressive works on the walls and the area has become an unofficial open-air museum.
It is located on the third floor of the Indiana State House, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.
Fort Collins, Colorado: Started the first program in the country to paint utility boxes as graffiti abatement in 2004.
Double Up is a public art work by Australian-American artist Clement Meadmore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
In that year, inheritance taxes forced the Duncombes to rent out the hall to Queen Mary's School for Girls, whose pupils were rumoured to feed the dog unwanted Marmite sandwiches.
The left panel shows a standing figure operating a printing press, with rollers, and the right panel shows a standing male figure unloading rolls of paper.
During the creation of the work, the artists were detained by police, but after a short arrest, all were released.
and abroad––with the intention to raise awareness about the humanitarian crisis at America's southern border and to engage with communities around the world in conversations about migration.
It was most likely used by Inca astronomers to design the huaca and then to realize their observations of the apparent movement of the stars.
Poland reflects di Suvero’s early exploration of movement in sculpture, a theme influenced by his recovery from a paralyzing accident in 1960.
The project of documenting this collection was based on the work that was done to document the IUPUI Public Art Collection, which was completed in the fall of 2009 and received national recognition.
Although DNA Tower is located inside the VanNuys Medical Science Building, it was included in this movement due to its high profile on IUPUI's campus.
The campus is next to the Indiana Avenue cultural district, just west of downtown Indianapolis near the Indianapolis Zoo, the Downtown Canal Walk, and White River State Park.
The Mainstage consists of an enclosed performance stage with fly house, orchestra pit, and back of house service areas, reserved seating sections accommodating up to 2400 viewers, outdoor terrace and balcony areas for gatherings and events.
Fast-growing tropical trees and shrubs could be more easily and quickly shaped using these techniques.
The reliefs, and writings with the reliefs, are often supplemented with a graffito, often in hieratic and discovered in locations not commonly seen, like a door jamb, hallway, entranceway, or the side or reverse of an object.
Uses Nut shell filters were designed to separate crude oil from oilfield produced water in the 1970s, which remains the principal use.
Profiles on Kumawat have appeared in Deccan Chronicle, The Statesman and Global Indian, describing his studio work and selected commissions.
Snow was sceptical of the then-dominant miasma theory that stated that diseases were caused by noxious "bad airs".
They then added the public patrimony works of international artists, which has awarded the most prestigious and important public collection in the city.
Earl Ofari Hutchinson, president of the Los Angeles Urban Policy Roundtable, said, "Depicting the president as demonic and a socialist goes beyond political spoofery.
Notable plant species nurtured in the Kangla Herbal Garden include heigru (Phyllanthus emblica), kihori (Phyllanthus acidus), agar (Aquilaria agallocha), neem (Azadirachta indica), tera (Mobax malabathricum), singairei (Nyctanthes arbor-tristis) and leihao (Michelia champaca).
The artwork is subject to natural erosion and in due course the area will revert to original desert plain.
The leaders must be good servants." Condition This sculpture was surveyed in 1993 for its condition and it was described that "treatment needed".
There are several ice festivals held around the world, hosting competitions of ice sculpture carving.
History The monument was designed by Marek Moderau, and unveiled on 22 June 1997, on the 55th anniversary of the beginning of the great deportation operation in the Warsaw Ghetto.
As it was stated on the party information resources: “Dead animals, fish and birds, especially birds, come to the aid of those who cannot.
Apart from showcasing 3D street art, it also organized the Beton Music Stage which holds concerts and open-air parties for the duration of the festival.
The terrace was presented by Stella Artois and was opened to the public from August 13 to September 20.
Initially, he had planned to do a mudflow sculpture, but cold temperatures prevented him from being able to dig the dirt needed for the project.
At the opening ceremony for the exhibition, NPS Director Charles Sams said "Beyond Granite: Pulling Together does not shy away from those aspects in our history that can be very hurtful to Americans.
Few aspects of daily life are represented; the murals are predominantly abstract depictions of mythical deities that probably reflect a communal belief system.
The ceilings of wedge-shaped gallery graves often sloped toward the rear, and a sill of stone set some distance inside the away from the entrance or one or two slabs set upright in the earth defined a sort of antechamber.
Fontaine Buffon-Poliveau, rue Geoffroy-Saint-Hilaire, 1983 Fontaine de la Spirale, 11-19 rue Descartes, 1986, Denis Sloan, architect and Meret Oppenheim, sculptor.
Notable sand mandala artists Dalai Lama Losang Samten See also Sandpainting Sand drawing (Vanuatu) References External links Image gallery of the construction of a five-and-a-half foot Medicine Buddha sand mandala
Nuno Reis (2 March 1974 – 4 August 2022), better known by his alias Nomen, was a Portuguese graffiti artist.
Art journalist Zipa Kampinski of Israel's largest newspaper, Yedioth Ahronoth, was privy to the story and covered the mural's secretive creation process.
Usage Bloordale Beach opened on 25 May 2020, located north of the Dufferin Mall between Croatia Street and Brock Crescent.
Penser en rose – Thought trips, a streetcar ride: Perception exercises marked the beginning: Participants were asked to close their eyes and imagine they were in a white room that is being colored pink and becomes distorted.
Schulze is one of five Milwaukee artists commissioned by a nonprofit visual art presenter called IN:SITE to install temporary artworks at this location in cooperation with the 30th Street Industrial Corridor Corporation.
Because the work's antiwar theme might be deemed offensive, the museum had it painted over within a day, and anonymous fellow artists avenged themselves by putting up posters of Deitch as an ayatollah holding a paint roller.
The representation of praise as a puzzle and a learning aid for abstract thinking is unusual and therefore valuable.
During these exchanges, the architect had invited people to imagine what might look like a fire hydrant ideal.
This way, Inside Out managed to show the world faces from the villages and cities they visited – faces that would have otherwise never have been exposed.
In 1995, Cogliatti instructed 55 children to paint the same concrete wall on behalf of the Zuger Schul– und Stadtbauamt (″Zug school and municipal building authorities″).
Along with the mural projects are a variety of street vendors and food trucks that cater to the public.
The tenth panel, on the uppermost section of the stairs, shows illustrations of iconic motifs of Auckland—Rangitoto, the pōhutukawa tree, and the huia–and the Southern Cross to represent New Zealand as a whole.
Those offering Wi-Fi service might also draw such a symbol to advertise the availability of their Wi-Fi location, whether commercial or personal.
In 2004 she was named the First Place Solo World Champion at the same competition for a Haida-inspired entry that included recreations of First Nations elders.
All of the artwork in the building was destroyed in this process, though purchase offers had been made.
Monument aux braves de Montréal External links Media related to Montreal Cenotaph at Wikimedia Commons
Artistic contributions Kureshi's art blended traditional Indian aesthetics with modern public art practices.
The shift in political, economical, social and architectural context also meant the dynamics of the project changed greatly and made the participation of the local audience more difficult to achieve, but all the more successful on the occasions where it happened.
While some were marked with manufacturers' stickers or etched with mold numbers, many were blank and were designs stolen from competitors.
French was a prolific sculptor, creating 94 existant public sculptures and nine that have been destroyed from 1871 until his death in 1931.
The base of the bust sits on top of the smallest block, in the middle and towards the front, roughly 2" from the ledge.
There's another garden named "Engellei Leikol" (formerly known as "Rock Garden" of the Kangla) located in the southern part of the Kangla.
Pieces were removed sometime later from the mold, once the clay had stiffened due to water absorption into the plaster and then finished by hand to remove defects and add more details.
In 1928, Anglican Bishop William White (Bishop of Honan) heard of the sale and proceeded to purchase the painting.
They were a prominent type of construction in the "Tulip period" during the reign of Ahmed III in the early 18th century, which saw an emergence of the "Rococo" Ottoman architectural style, and during the later "Baroque" phase of Ottoman architecture that followed.
Description Spheres intended to protect the biogas collection wells are scattered throughout the eastern sector of the park.
Also these of the snake tamers, who have a very special aura around them, always arousing in the spectators respect mixed with fear.
The letters, and its resulting sign, were designed by Carlos Rivera Villafañe, a sculptor from Ponce.
The finished work is then cured by periodic misting and polishing with smooth river pebbles to enhance durability.
As such, the small but multi-level "sabil-kuttab" structure became a cost-effective option for political elites to offer charitable services to the general population, which in turn helped them publicly display their piety.
It is located at the Centre Street Lofts, 285 West 6th Street, at the corner of West 7th and Centre Streets, Los Angeles, California.
Stace said he was "very nearly arrested" many times for violating a City Council rule against defacing pavement, and that he "had permission from a higher source".
101) placed by the California Department of Public Works, Division of Highways, commemorates the site.
Other notable works include many portrait busts and bronze plaques of Indiana governors and notable citizens.
The park is 1 of 80 New York State Parks that were in the path of totality for the 2024 solar eclipse, with the park experiencing 3 minutes and 25 seconds of totality.
In April 2018 it was removed in preparation for stormwater system repairs nearby, and was sent back to di Suvero's studio for a fresh coat of paint.
The base armatures were metal, with chicken wire used to create the general shape, then stuffed with newspaper.
The series replicates the detail and diversity of natural life, progressing from simple to more elaborate and sophisticated forms.
The Cool S, also known as the Universal S, the Super S, the Pointy S, and the Graffiti S, is a graffiti sign in popular culture and childlore that is typically doodled on children's notebooks or graffitied on walls.
There is a common story that black lawn jockeys are a recreation of a black boy who served George Washington in the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War.
Restoration Planning for a restoration of the mural began in 2011 as the stairwell and paint surface had become so derelict as to be condemned by the hospital's officials.
On 2 July 2010 it was reported that a Polish TV channel is producing a special on the mural and its painters.
Robinson, Dominique Blain, Isabelle Hayeur, John Oswald, Damian Siquerios (Public's choice Award 2010), François Morelli, Yannick Guéguen, Jean-François Laporte, Mathieu Beauséjour, Isabelle Choinière, Manon de Pauw, Alana Riley.
The Cows are constructed from scrap, skinned with fibreglass-reinforced concrete donated by a local builder.
In addition, the increasing prevalence of environmental sustainability makes this method an increasingly outdated method of removal.
Numbers The Historical museum in Moscow has 30 specimens (in the halls and in the courtyard); others are in Kharkiv, Odesa, Novocherkassk, etc.
The title of the work was inspired from readings of his own work that links this sculpture to the work of Michelangelo and Rembrandt.
Originally, it had 102 gargoyles or spouts, but due to the heavy weight (they were crafted from marble), many snapped off and had to be replaced.
Early murals at the site are generally found located in small temples along the Avenue of the Dead and depict animals such as quetzals and felines as well as various plant varieties.
ARTZUID 2019: The Sculptures, The Figurations, The Garden & The Spectacle Art historian and retired art critic Jhim Lamoree and visual artist Michiel Romeyn curated sculptures exploring figuration in modern and contemporary art, and the adornment of the South Amsterdam area, Plan-Zuid.
Land Art Generator Initiative also led efforts that have resulted in the world's first Solar Mural artworks.
Like Minnesota, many states hold their own competitions with a national event being held in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin each year.
They saw it as a kind of grotto carved into the hill from which a spring was presumed to have flowed.
The Negro (Le nèg'), a 2002 film by Québécois director Robert Morin, about a black adolescent who resents lawn jockeys as racist and destroys one, resulting in his murder.
Controversy Due to its location at the center and both sides of a major expressway, it is one of Puerto Rico's most controversial works of public art.
Each sculpture will be put in places that are national or local symbols of freedom, justice and democracy in each city.
My Gift to Robert In the beginning of 2014 Wodkins built a huge golden statue of himself as a gift to Robert Mugabe.
Pirate Listening Station Between 1999 and 2009, Bunting hosted the Pirate Listening Station which allowed visitors to the site to tune and listen in to London pirate radio stations.
The inscription reads: (Sculpture, proper right front, on oriental carpet near base:) (Base, front:) (Base, left side:) FOUNDER OF THE DREXEL 1826 1893 (Base, rear:) INSTITUTE OF ART PRESENTED TO THE CITIZENS OF PHILADELPHIA BY HIS FRIEND JOHN H.
Stace was a former petty criminal and alcoholic who started writing Eternity as his "one word sermon" after he converted.
These generally consisted simply of a road name (moniker), a date, and the direction the hobo was heading then.
Most importantly, by modeling the flow, the hydraulic capture zone width (HCZW) and the residence time can be determined.
In that period most major public buildings were designed with sculptural programs of one kind or another.
In 2004 the film was digitized and screened for the first time in 20 years on the walls of the Getty Center in Los Angeles.
Although it is possible to use other medias for this purpose, walnut and pecan shells are most commonly used since they have several desirable properties making them well suited for oil removal.
Accompanied by six brothers, he landed in New York and proceeded to Indiana, where he acquired possession of 524 snow-covered acres of land from the Bishop of Vincennes, Indiana.
The two figures riding the Chollima, a male worker and a female farmer, are 7 meters and 6.5 meters tall, respectively.
Sheridan was a completion of an unfinished statue by John Quincy Adams Ward, and the Daniel Webster Memorial was completed by Margaret French Cresson after French's death.
Four artists—Susan Falkman, Peter Flanary, Richard Taylor and Jeremy Wolf—presented their concepts and fielded questions at an open meeting held at Riverside University High School in November 2003.
List of Murals by Luc Tuymans is a list of mural paintings and other murals by the Belgian artist Luc Tuymans (born June 14, 1958).
On sculpting people, Ryden says, "I use the human form as a vehicle for the communication I am trying to establish." Ryden has created a number of memorial statues and busts, including those honoring pitcher Carl Erskine and Martin Luther King Jr.
The consolidation of this area under a single external power from the east affected the indigenous cultures.
The age of the moai heads on the island cannot be determined, and off the island, heads can only be determined to be made from Easter Island volcanic rock or not made from Easter Island volcanic rock.
The fountain was first located at the Rotonda de Sampaloc, the intersection between Legarda, Lacson and Magsaysay streets, which today forms the Nagtahan Interchange that separates Sampaloc from Santa Mesa since Francisco Peredo Carriedo resided in Santa Mesa, Manila.
Photographs showing the hotels' original structure stating "There May Be Life in the Old Girl Yet" forced the artist to question the ways in which our society views older women.
Recognising the potential of the building as a venue for hosting street artists, he obtained the rights for an art exhibition in the tower as part of a collaboration with Jérôme Coumet, the mayor of the 13th arrondissement of Paris.
A sculpture garden or sculpture park is an outdoor garden or park which includes the presentation of sculpture, usually several permanently sited works in durable materials in landscaped surroundings.
Some local people have expressed admiration for the work as a feat of engineering, and a newspaper poll found a majority of locals in support of keeping the structure.
It showed at Spoleto, Italy, the White House, and the Guggenheim Museum, and is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
Compass is a public art work by American artist Gail Simpson, located on the east side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
In some cases the materials are released in the same neighborhood where it was originally collected, now upcycled into sculptures, following the thought of improving cityscape by the use of materials that used to impair the very same area.
The resulting light-and-dark contrast is caused by differences in light reflection: smooth surfaces reflect light more directly, while raked sand scatters light, making it appear darker.
This monument is a symbol of the Constitutionalist Revolution of 1932, and the biggest monument of the city of São Paulo.
The sculptures covered up to 16 different themes, largely dealing with Mysore's cultural heritage, wildlife and religion (mainly Hinduism, Islam and Christianity).
Entangled 2019 Entangled was designed with the Little Haiti community in Miami, Florida to create a platform for residents and visitors to learn and share the history, stories, and music of Haitian culture outside the doors of the local Litle Haiti Cultural Complex.
Louis, Missouri; Murray, Utah; Las Vegas, Nevada, Frisco, Texas, Atlanta, Georgia; Durham, North Carolina; and Norwalk, Connecticut.
The village The founders chose Erriadh for its traditional architecture, and thanks to Djerbahood, the village became an attractive destination for tourists.
Guggenheim Museum in New York, as part of a major exhibition of Long's work held by that museum in the 1970s and 1980s.
Roosevelt, Chapultepec Statue of Heydar Aliyev Statue of José Gervasio Artigas Statue of León Felipe Statue of Louis Pasteur Statue of Martin Luther King Jr., Lincoln Park Statue of Paul P.
In May 2025, Governor Desantis signed Senate Bill 1662 to keep "our transportation facilities free & clear of political ideologies." Following orders from the Florida Department of Transportation in August 2025, they are being removed along with all non-compliant street art.
See also Roden Crater City (artwork) Rio Tinto Group, owners of Bingham Copper Mine References External links Bingham Canyon Mine panorama.
"Instead of going from photo op to photo op unveiling moose, he's going to have to take on the real concerns," stated John Nunziata, then an independent MP.
Dallas Zoo's giraffe statue Statue of Don Juan de Oñate called The Equestrian in El Paso, Texas - At 36 feet (11 m) tall, it is purported by the sculptor to be the largest bronze equestrian statue in the world.
Dorrien specializes in public art installations, creating large-sized abstract sculptures in granite that are often inspired by ancient history, architecture, archaeological ruins, and human figures.
This early 21st century example of land art was installed temporarily in the remote township of Parkfield, Central California.
At the end of the experience, viewers have an opportunity to add their voices to a memorial to the thousands who have died crossing the desert.
In literature The intaglios were featured prominently in the Hardy Boys novel Mystery of the Desert Giant, published in 1961.
Composition As it stands today, the wall painting measures 502 cm in height and 1101 cm in length and has a symmetrical composition, notable for its high level of detail.
Certain "linear elements converge within a central circular hub and then explode outward." Information The name of the sculpture comes from a poem by Federico García Lorca about New York City.
During normal operation, water typically flows down through the media bed where oil is coalesced and attracted to the nut shells and accumulates in the interstitial spaces between the media.
The simplest cleaning can be performed using carefully applied deionised water, although other mechanical or chemical means are often necessary, and must always be done slowly, in a controlled and focused manner (Rauch 2004, 5–6; Vogel et al.
References External links 'Corrections and Collections', Places Journal 'In Memory of State Terror', Pagina/12 Smithsonian Magazine Artists in Latin America 'ArteBA Un "Blooper" de Macri', Clarín 'La carta del artista', Pagina/12 Macri Breaks Wulsin Sculpture at ArteBA
De Queen come from England to set we free Now Lick an Lock-up Done Wid, Hurray fuh Jin-Jin This was the chant of thousands of Barbadians when slavery was abolished in 1838, signifying their freedom, joy and happiness, five years after the passage of the Slavery Abolition Act 1833.
Quan Am is one of the most highly revered bodhisattvas in Vietnam and is called by many epithets, including 'Mother of Buddhas' and 'Goddess of Compassion'.
Mayor of Wellington Justin Lester participated in painting the crossing, before launching it a few days later on 10 October 2018.
First Lady Michelle Obama, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and Representative Sheila Jackson Lee were among those who offered remarks at the unveiling.
Background A "Permyak" is a resident of Perm and "Permyak salty ears" is the traditional nickname for the inhabitants of Perm and the surrounding countryside.
Low relief is a technique which requires less work than high relief, and is therefore cheaper to produce, as less of the background needs to be removed in a carving, or less modelling is required.
A conservator should ideally perform the analysis of the state of the mural and outline procedures and materials need to be performed.
Artist The artist, David Bowen, works mostly with kinetic, robotic, interactive and sculptural pieces.
Atl issued a manifesto calling for the development of a monumental public art movement in Mexico; he named it in Spanish pintura mural (English: wall painting).
Description The Stravinsky Fountain is a shallow basin of 580 square metres (6,200 sq ft) located in Place Stravinsky, between the Centre Pompidou and the Church of Saint-Merri.
These exhibitions featured both emerging and established artists and were hosted by international venues such as the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo, Norway.
Festival The Larkin 25 festival coincided with Hull's annual literature festival, 'Humber Mouth', and included walking tours, art and photography exhibitions, musical events and an exhibition of Larkin memorabilia.
The approximately 140 abstract, brightly colored tree sculptures were reportedly inspired by the 1909 work by Austrian painter Gustav Klimt called The Tree of Life, Stoclet Frieze.
It does not cost the city extra to clean up the various defacements, but it does divert time from tasks that city employees could otherwise be doing.
The initial designs for the mural reflected the tensions and struggles of the people of Brixton, but these were subsequently perceived as an unwanted negative perception of the area.
lt also is separated temporally from the others in that it depicts a moment late in the conflict when the outcome is no longer in doubt.
Norbert Zerbs (born 1978 in Neuhaus am Rennweg), known professionally as Niclas Castello, is a German contemporary artist.
This way the mosaics can be prepared at a builder's yard and do not have to be destroyed for road work.
His work raises contradictory notions of natural versus artificial, found versus constructed, growth and decay, and time as something ephemeral and enduring, intelligible and incomprehensible.
Critical reaction "...Niki de Saint Phalle has never better realized her phantasmagoric menagerie of symbols, painted with knowing truculence.
The architecture firm KUB was given the Kasper Salin Prize by Architects Sweden in 2010 for designing the plant.
The version of the image that was eventually popularized was created by Firas Alkhateeb, a 20-year-old student at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
Grants were received from the National Endowment for the Arts in the InterArts and the Artist Forums categories and the New Mexico Arts Division.
Ricardo Bofill and his team viewed it as a celebration of the role of the Pyrenean mountain passes, and especially of the Col du Perthus, in Catalan history.
History In 2009, the four Geneva municipalities of Lancy, Onex, Confignon and Bernex launched the art & tram art project under the responsibility of the Fonds Cantonal d'Art Contemporain.
The Gerz proposal was selected, and proceeded as the largest, and one of the two highest-funded, Ballymun arts projects, with a budget described as exceeding 250,000 euro, and a duration from December 2003 to December 2017.
See also List of slaves Coffy (person) Emancipation Park (Kingston, Jamaica) Emancipation Memorial (Washington D.C.) Emancipation Memorial (Boston) Emancipation and Freedom Monument References External links Official government website Description on Slaverymonuments.org
His works can be seen on walls around the world while his works on canvas and drawings have been shown in galleries, internationally.
In addition to inspections, Proactive Removal Management uses sealants to protect graffiti-prone locations.
History The Crystal Fountain was designed by Follett Osler, it was the world's first glass fountain, made of four tons of pure crystal glass.
w Londynie; na znak protestu wobec bierności rządów państw sprzymierzonych w obliczu zagłady Żydów w getcie warszawskim 12 maja 1943 odebrał sobie życie.
Exhibitions Selection process ContainerArt projects not curated by content partners were directly chosen by Ronald Lewis Facchinetti in association with local co-curators or franchisees.
Aim of the project The aim of the project was to raise awareness about the extinction crisis facing primates in the wild, and it is sponsored by the Bristol Zoo on the occasion of its 175th birthday and its long lasting effort to save primates in Cameroon, most notably at Ape Action Africa.
For example, public demonstrations occurred after the prison suicide of graffiti artist Tom Collister, who had received a 20 month sentence for vandalism.
After that is completed, one may submit a Group Action: motivation can come from wanting to spread joy and celebrate life or protesting a serious issue in a community.
The festival's theme that year was "Curiouser & Curiouser," inspired by Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
Stamped asphalt is a decorative product which is made by transforming regular asphalt into imitation brick, stone, or slate.
And according to him, some of the residents who were reluctant in the beginning later asked the organizing committee and the artists to come and paint on their walls as well.
The “Indian” sculpture was renamed Anishinabe Scout and now sits in Major's Hill Park, a short distance away from its original home.
Modern history Sir Francis Bacon in his famous compilation "A Natural History of Ten Centuries" 1627 (Baker & Taras, 1981) discussed desalination and began the first scientific experimentation into water filtration.
I wish to point out that we all have a personal responsibility for these tendencies with ourselves and our fellow human beings.
The sphere can weigh thousands of kilograms, but the efficient bearing allows it to be spun by the force of a hand.
While the School of Art hosted exhibits in 1990 for the 20th anniversary of the work's creation, and again in 2005 for the 35th anniversary, the location of the artwork was largely ignored until Kent State University added an informational plaque to a sidewalk near the site in 2016.
A full-scale replica in sandstone was started in the rural township of Buckland in Tasmania in the first years of the 21st century, but was demolished by order of the municipal authorities.
Soutou, "La ceinture des statues-menhirs du Haut-Languedoc : essai de datation", in Bulletin de la Société préhistorique française, 1959, Vol.
Influenced by the monumental and permanent land art earthworks of the early 1970s, the installation was a conceptual feedback loop between the seismic activity of California and the mechanical reflection of these frequent seismic events which controlled the earthquake shake table.
Accounting for natural ground-surface variance to create an isocephaly effect, the appearance of a level plane, the two-inch diameter poles were constructed to vary in height from 15 feet to 26 feet 9 inches.
Description Magic Grove consists of three brightly painted trees made of salvaged metal, a brick walkway and artist-designed benches.
IUPUI also holds a collection of art works located indoors, including Dale Chihuly’s DNA Tower (2003).
The concept about Genetic played "organismas that we ate", at Maslak in a 500 m2 field and 10 meters high.
Yves-Marie Allain and Janine Christiany, L'art des jardins en Europe, Citadelles & Mazenod, Paris, 2006.
The Setting the Pace foundation began managing the Venice Art Walls in 2012, and the group has since organized mural workshops for students and young artists." According to Paste, artists with "prearranged permits can legally tag and create".
At 17, Nychos learned of street art culture and the use of spray cans—a practice which allowed for the addition of color to his then black and white cartoons while demanding for quicker and more spontaneous works.
(1988) Feathered Serpents and Flowering Trees: Reconstructing the Murals of Teotihuacan, Kathleen Berrin, ed., Fine Arts Museum of San Francisco.
Basotho women generate litema on the outer walls and inside of homesteads by means of engraving, painting, relief mouldings and/or mosaic.
Some standing stones owe their survival partly due to their practical functionality as cattle rubbing stones although some megalithic sites have had to be protected from the damage that cattle can and do cause as indicated by the attached photograph.
The statue lies below 35 metres of water and is close to the wreck of the MV Imperial Eagle, one of the ferryboats connecting Malta and Gozo, also a diving attraction.
The legal status of this piece is the Statehouse Inventories, and the credit line is through the Indiana Historical Bureau with an identification number of 99.2006.020.0069.
As it was inaugurated in 1976 after the death of Francisco Franco and the start of the Spanish transition to democracy, the pyramid also became a symbol for Spain's European aspirations and opening to its northern neighbors.
In 1996, one year after Welsh's death, the Indianapolis law firm of Bingham, Summers, Welsh & Spilman commissioned artist Daniel Edwards to sculpt the bust of Welsh.
Information Lippold believed that "the characteristic art of our time deals with the conquest of space", with Ad Astra symbolizing just that.
Auburn Streets), Harvard Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts The Gateway, South Boston Maritime Park, Boston, Massachusetts Ontas, station entrance of MBTA Porter Square station, Cambridge, Massachusetts == References ==
In 1981, she collaborated with Susan Hiller to curate the exhibition We'll Think of a Title When We Meet: Women Performance Artists from London and Los Angeles at Franklin Furnace, a well-known alternative arts venue founded in 1976 by Martha Wilson.
Examples of artworks/interventions 2007 TEJN places an unknown number of hidden time capsules in different Danish cities, containing original works commenting on the way we look at future, past and present.
The artist also ensured that each cow had a heart shape used as part of the pattern on the cow skin.
The group's participants placed images of people "spewing" streams of propaganda, thus criticizing the state's information policy and drawing attention to the problems of freedom of speech in Russia.
The painting incorporates a "Group of Seven" style along with modern graffiti art and features words such as "reflection", "technology", "revitalization", "nature", "J.
Some city councilors suggested Old Lorimier Cemetery as a possibility, as up to 1200 Confederate and Union soldiers are buried there.
Historically, basic designs were drawn around the cooking areas for the purpose of discouraging insects and pathogens.
Like the other Black Paintings, it was transferred to canvas in 1873–74 under the supervision of Salvador Martínez Cubells, a curator at the Museo del Prado.
Made from fabricated aluminum and interlocking wires, the sculpture abstractly represents a human form.
Santa Barbara Beginning in 2009, a collaboration of arts organizations have been presenting "Pianos on State Street" as an annual community art project after being inspired by Luke Jerram and other cities.
In Catalonia, sgraffito was implemented in the early 20th century by the Noucentista neo-classical architects and became a recurrent technique in façade decoration.
rujum; Hebrew: rogem) can also refer to a tumulus, a heap of stones underneath which human burial space was located.
McCloskey, Steven Durland of High Performance Magazine, and the art critic/historian, Craig Owens (critic).
This included the controversial project “Young Dictators” conceived and realized by Per Hüttner with two local students.
These murals are commonly associated with the rise of female mural artists and a rise in the leadership of Chicana artists.Including, Yreina Cervántez, Alma Lopez, and Barbara Carrasco.
The sculpture received a lot of media attention upon its first display, and many affectionate parodies.
Nonetheless, the practice is still technically illegal in some jurisdictions, though it is not often prosecuted vigorously.
The international partners developed and curated their local shipping container art exhibits with support from ContainerArt, but with independent themes and goals.
Without completely disappearing, the practice declined with the advent of architectural modernism around 1940.
Louis and San Francisco Collections respectively, these figures are presumed to be originally found in Techinantila compound of Teotihuacán.
Rene intuitively reassembled parts of a typewriter into a beetle, years later coming across a photo of one in National Geographic magazine which bore resemblance to his own.
The artists were asked to look at human displacement, migration, immigration, refugees and identity.
The entire sculpture has a height of 28 inches (710 mm) with a width of 25 inches (640 mm) and a depth of 14.5 inches (370 mm).
The hexagonal structure in the center of the fountain has its origin in the "Anders Olsens minde" hexagonal gazebo, which stood beside Lake Storsøen, which lies just behind the town.
Hanging from geolocated pins, the toe tags are color-coded, with manila tags representing identified individuals (approx.
"Spray to Forget," is an interactive, aromatherapeutic work proposed to "edit one's consciousness" and remove "undesired memories" by spraying it.
The Sequence (2008) - a large wooden installation on Leuvenseweg in Brussels, connecting the buildings of the Flemish Parliament with the House of Flemish Representatives.
See also LGBTQ history in Taiwan List of LGBTQ monuments and memorials List of tourist attractions in Taipei Taiwan Pride References External links Media related to Rainbow pedestrian crossings in Taipei at Wikimedia Commons
It commemorates the Commonwealth of Nations member states' victims of the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center.
The work was created by John Kiss, an Israeli street artist and peace activist previously known as Jonathan Kis-Lev.
Some of the inscriptions are runic or lettered; a variety of Latin and Ogham inscriptions survive, with some being bilingual.
Lüftlmalerei is a popular, folk-oriented variation of trompe-l'œil from the Baroque and imitates architectural elements.
In the summer of 2016, landlord Marvin Schutte opened the site to visitors who are able to climb the listening station towers and admire the ever-evolving "street art gallery" that fills the site's abandoned buildings.
Few dolmens are larger and have a corridor due to the extension of side slabs, giving them an elongated shape.
Gallery See also History of water supply and sanitation Ancient water conservation techniques Water supply and sanitation in the Indus-Saraswati Valley Civilisation Sanitation in ancient Rome Traditional water sources of Persian antiquity == References ==
This art piece covered two floors of the underground parking lot at Lune Rouge entertainment company headquarters, in the heart of downtown Montreal.
Legend and history According to island oral traditions, Anakena was the landing place of Hotu Matu'a, a Polynesian chief who led a two-canoe settlement party here and founded the first settlement on Rapa Nui.
Soon afterwards, people colored the sidewalk with chalk as law enforcement watched and warned them to stay out of the street.
DNA Tower is 20.2 feet (6.2 m) tall and 4.7 feet (1.4 m) in diameter; its wooden base is 5.4 feet (1.6 m) in diameter.
The fate of Life has not been publicly revealed, but in early 2016 it was reported that the architects and developer were exploring ways to potentially incorporate the piece into the new development.
See also Mandela Way T-34 Tank Brotherhood (sculpture) References Bibliography Wright, Patrick (2001).
After repainting the walls, Ghost Pitùr leaves a note saying "Questo è un atto d’amore urbano" [This is an act of urban love].
They introduced the first illuminated fountains, the first fountains made with glass and other exotic materials, and the first fountains programmed to perform with music.
In selecting the work of art, the Government of Puerto Rico considered 318 submissions from hundreds of artists around the world, including Ada Bobonis, Ann Hamilton, Antoni Muntadas, Liliana Porter, and Devorah Sperber.
Using a white material like chalk, sand, paint or flour, the artist marks a centre-point on the ground and cardinal points around it, usually in a square, hexagon or circle depending on region and personal preference.
Its primary tasks are ongoing technical developments which maintain the integrity of the project and its hardware and software.
The artist wrote on his official website: This was a percent for art public art project located on a large blank wall at the corner of SW 5th and Hall on the Portland State University campus.
He assisted in the production of the 2016 graffiti event “Meeting Of Styles Melbourne”, also under the Invurt banner.
The program supports art-making of many kinds – emerging and established artists, in new and traditional media, from stand-alone commissions to artist collaborations.
Gromit Unleashed's financial success led organisers to plan a sequel almost immediately after the trail finished.
According to Meitei religious beliefs, the hiyang hirens are used by the male ancestral deity (Meitei: Ibudhou) and female ancestral deity (Meitei: Ibendhou) and are sacred to the Meiteis, the major ethnic group of Manipur.
Abandonment of the settlement Immediately before the middle of the 1st century, archaeological discoveries within the city's boundaries came to an end, except for the sanctuary located on the hilltop, which continued to yield finds until late antiquity.
Larkin 25 was an arts festival and cultural event in Kingston upon Hull, England, organised to mark the 25th anniversary of the death of the poet and University of Hull librarian, Philip Larkin.
One of Cogliatti's artistic goals, among others, was to use painterly means to give the impression of a third dimension.
Reactive processes There are a variety of ways that permeable reactive membranes can be used in order to remediate groundwater.
On the night of 27/28 April 1991, art student David Černý and friends painted the tank pink and erected a large finger suggesting an obscene gesture on its turret, signing the work "David Černý and the Neostunners".
He says of himself, "I started calling myself Headache Stencil because I knew what I did is going to cause people headaches.
These panels provide a "dimple" like protective coating and are attached with a hi-bond adhesive to the frame structure.
Description This corten steel abstract sculpture is described as "resembling a head, either human or animal, with appendages." It has no base—the entire piece rests on the ground.
French artist Ernest Pignon-Ernest stencilled life-size silhouettes of a nuclear bomb victim in the south of France in 1966 (Plateau d'Albion, Vaucluse) with paint and a brush.
This period of artistic florescence would end in 1212, when the Kara-Khanids in Samarkand were conquered by the Kwarazmians.
By the early 20th century, mentions of the giant had largely disappeared, and by the 1920s, reports confirmed that both the horse and the figure had faded from view, with no clear evidence of their existence remaining.
Traditionally either powdered calcite and limestone or cereal powders are used for the basic design.
After 2000 In 2007, the site was excavated by Yosef Garfinkel and Michael Freikman of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
Stone Bracelet was commissioned through the Spirit of Milwaukee Neighborhood Millennium Art Initiative.
For instance, other projects of hers include laser harps, where people elicit music via interrupting the laser arrangements.
The Victorian State Government's participation included "Victoria Week" (17–23 May) a week of activities which promoted trade and investment in a range of Victorian industry sectors including Arts and Culture.
It was relocated in 2000 after being purchased by the Seattle Art Museum with funding from Jon and Mary Shirley.
The Prime of Greece (in German: Die Blüte Griechenlands) was a painting by the German artist Max Klinger (1857–1920).
Bowen attended Herron School of Art and Design for his undergraduate degree and he attended the University of Minnesota where he earned his MFA in 2004.
Awards and honors While working towards his MFA degree at UC Davis, Snyder received a University of California Davis Patent Grant in 1972 for research with lightweight clay bodies.
Artificial waterfalls have long been featured in traditional Japanese gardens, where they can serve to highlight a scene or to provide focus.
Traveling screens are used to divert fish, shellfish and other aquatic species, and debris including leaves, sticks, and trash; for the purpose of preventing damage to a facility's treatment or cooling system.
It was dedicated on June 18, 1926, at the Second Bank of the United States on Chestnut Street, but was relocated in 1961.
The other part includes thirty partially buried stones along the nearby path, words and reproductions of residents appearing on them.
Selected works Batman Slapping Robin (2010): Created for a competition in Amadora, Portugal, this mural reimagines the viral meme through Reis’ graffiti lens.
In 2010 Dolk and Pøbel were paid by the Norwegian state to put their art up at the main railway stations in Oslo and Trondheim.
The Natural World Museum partnered with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to present art exhibitions each year for World Environment Day as part of their Art for the Environment initiative.
A 1981 Village Voice article titled "Apple of Temptation" covered René's Mott's artwork, and Playboy magazine included René in their annual "Year in Sex" review.
Both ornamented and unornamented waterspouts projecting from roofs at parapet level were a common device used to shed rainwater from buildings until the early 18th century.
It was built in honour of the 18th-century Capitán General of Manila, Don Francisco Peredo Carriedo, benefactor of Manila's pipe water system.
Three fiber optic illumination boxes with a central halide fixture are installed with multiple fiber optic cables that serve as lighting sources for the kaleidoscopes.
In 1986, Persinger began working at Dinamation, where he created life-sized sculptures of dinosaurs, extinct mammals and sea creatures for use in museum exhibits and worked as project director and manager/art director of the sculpture department.
Senator Jim Webb expressed shock: “I never in my wildest dreams imagined such a nihilistic slab of stone.” James Watt, secretary of the interior under President Ronald Reagan, initially refused to issue a building permit for the memorial due to the public outcry about the design.
In February 1991, historian Pavel Bělina argued that there were "neither moral nor historical grounds" for preserving the monument.
The murals of Penjikent are the earliest known Sogdian murals, starting from the late 5th to early 6th century CE, and are preceded by the Hepthalite murals of Tukharistan as seen in Balalyk Tepe, from which they received iconographical and stylistic influence.
War memorials Large colourful murals and images decorate some of the derelict and crumbling walls of Sarajevo's suburbs, acting to commemorate victims of the war or to distract people from the unrepaired damage.
The later design process focused on a single artificial pyramid-shaped hill to be built from materials excavated during the construction of the highway.
Through street actions and dialogue, Blank Noise hopes to achieve its aims of achieving a safe and free environment for women on the streets, and enable society to become more egalitarian towards women in general.
Murals Reis' murals frequently address social and political themes such as injustice, human rights, and environmental awareness, functioning as public commentaries aimed at prompting reflection on societal issues.
Measuring 10 ft x 3 ft x 2 ft, the structure is vertically-louvered and is depicted as coming apart at the top.
Kumo is a public art work by artist Isaac Witkin located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
This was at the time that the Port Said Massacre unfolded, which changed the course of his plans and shifted his mural into a memorial mural.
While conventional street art is done on walls and surfaces street installations use three-dimensional objects set in an urban environment.
Four of these figures are from the past – St Bernard, St Benedict, St Columba and Dame Julian of Norwich and the other four feature contemporary Christians – Evelyn Underhill, Bede Griffiths, Reginald Somerset Ward and Archbishop Michael Ramsey.
On 7 October 2010, "Poetry on the Buses" was launched in Hull and East Yorkshire to coincide with National Poetry Day.
It was cast by Gorham Manufacturing Company of Providence, Rhode Island, installed in April 1913, and formally dedicated on July 4, 1913.
The video exhibition Tuning In, took place at the Museum of Fine Arts, Santa Fe, and the Art Gallery of the College of Santa Fe.
The granite sculpture is an obelisk made of a narrow piece of red granite cut into a tapering hourglass form.
Nordgulen served as the Chair of the Fine Arts Department at Herron during the years 2004 through 2008.
The third panel displays white camellias, the flower that was gifted to members of parliament in support of the women's franchise bill.
Boston Contemporary Writers poetry and prose Boston Contemporary Writers was a literary competition and poetry and prose siting that ran from 1986 to 1987 and was launched to provide a written component to balance the visual emphasis of the permanent art of Arts in Transit.
"The purpose of the birdman contest was to obtain the first egg of the season from the offshore islet Motu Nui.
Fifteen hundred truck loads of soil were transported to the site and one million seeds were planted.
Background In 2003, Byrne was approached by curator Clíodhna Shaffrey to submit a proposal for the project, which was commissioned by developer Mick Wallace of M&J Wallace, as a centrepiece for the Italian Quarter in Dublin.
The time capsules were signed, sealed and buried or integrated in public areas or buildings without permission.
In July 2007, artist Lars Vilks incited controversy by creating drawings for an art exhibition, which depicted Muhammad as a roundabout dog.
Many towns and cities across Japan have their own designs which represents the local identity, and the practice has garnered sufficient interest from the public for annual manhole exhibitions.
Snite Museum of Art archival object file, report on conservation treatment of Wing Generator issued by McKay Lodge Conservation Laboratory, September 2, 2015.
Construction and inauguration The construction of the Hijagang watercraft storage building started in the year 2010 and completed in the year 2013.
After returning to California in 2003, he developed a technique of suspending wooden arrow "mobiles" from overhead wires, a practice he would continue internationally in later years.
Development Kiss chose the holiday of Rosh Hashana as the time to execute the work, likely to ensure that the police would be unable to reach the public art department at Tel Aviv city hall.
This is why I try to make my murals a constructive expression of the city." Yazan's calligraffiti style uses Arabic letters to form intricate, modern and stylized Arabic calligraphy compositions that are an essential element of his art work.
China Harbin International Ice and Snow Sculpture Festival originated in Harbin's traditional ice lantern show and garden party that takes place in winter, which began in 1963 in Heilongjiang, China.
He is active during the night in the city of Brescia, Lombardy, and has been portrayed in media as a superhero.
In the late 19th century, major road reconstruction works took place in Freiburg, during which the Bächle were relocated from the centers to the edges of the roads.
It was inspired by the deaths of four Seattle firefighters who died January 5, 1995 fighting a fire in the Mary Pang warehouse in Seattle's International District.
Fearing The Paradise of Maitreya was in danger of theft, the monks of Xinghua Si removed the work from the wall and partitioned it into 63 pieces so that it could be securely stored and hidden in Taiyuan.
Because the fountain consists equally of parts in a metal and a colour, its use is not limited by the rule of tincture as are the other roundels.
Here, BM 535:3, the last of the Amazons is depicted clasping an altar as she is prised away by a Greek, BM 535:4.
In this case, blacks, ochres, grays and earth tones are applied with very free, energetic brushstrokes.
exhibition opened at the Vienna Museum of Natural History in June 2012; it attempted to replace the romantic view of animal and birds depictions with a realistic view of the modern conditions of growing civilization.
The manufacturers expect that in time the polystyrene (which is non-biodegradable) will be replaced with a polyurethane blend.
He or she may also work with food purveyors, catering directors, equipment vendors, financial consultants, the media, sanitation inspectors and dietitians.
A carafe () is a glass container with a flared lip used for serving liquids, especially wine and coffee.
French master chef, Jassintour Rozea (1721-1783) wrote several culinary books on haute cuisine (The Gift of Comus, 1752, and The Compleat Cook, Market Woman & Dairy Maid, 1756 - Library of Congress, USA) was also master chef to Charles Seymour, 6th.
The kilogram was in turn specified as the mass of the International Prototype of the Kilogram (a specific platinum/iridium cylinder) and was intended to be the same mass as the 1 litre of water referred to above.
Radappertization is derived from the combination of radiation and Appert, the name of the French scientist and engineer who invented sterilized food for the troops of Napoleon.
Regional and local variations Asia Indonesian cuisine has a variation on en papillote using leaves to steam food.
Today's US teaspoon is equivalent to 4.92892159375 ml, which is also 1⁄6 US fluid ounces, 1+1⁄3 US fluid drams, or 80 US minims.
It is served warm either plain or sprinkled with cocoa powder, cinnamon sugar, sometimes with fresh or canned fruits, jam, vanilla, choco bits; modern additions include ice cream, whipped cream, brown sugar, maple syrup, candied fruit, granola, pumpkin seeds etc.
Both the Oxford English Dictionary and The Dictionary of National Biography discuss the attribution.
Savoury Pease pudding was first made possible at the beginning of the 17th century with the advent of the pudding cloth.
History Various desserts consisting of whipped cream in pyramidal shapes with coffee, liqueurs, chocolate, fruits, and so on either in the mixture or poured on top were called crème en mousse ('cream in a foam'), crème mousseuse ('foamy cream'), mousse ('foam'), and so on, as early as 1768.
In the North East of England, a request for a half and half would more commonly produce a combination of Scotch ale and India pale ale (IPA).
Within health care, the chef is often responsible for the development of variations on mainstream meals, to fit different types of diets while still having an appetizing meal.
"mortaria") was one of a class of Ancient Roman pottery kitchen vessels, specifically a type of mortar.
History Dark cuisine typically sounds or looks bizarre or even disgusting but in some cases is more appealing than anticipated.
Depending on preference, meals would be eaten in one's own home or in a communal dining room, which could also serve as a meeting room and playroom for children.
Proponents of the series' categorization as "comedy" argue that the show unfolds as a dark comedy marked by ridiculous situations and comedic timing, relies on the comedic effect inherent to chaos, is a comedy of errors and is heavily characterized by back-and-forth banter or snark.
Plate An electric plate cooktop is similar to a coil cooktop but uses plate-like base supports as opposed to coil supports.
While rice is common to most regional cuisines in Asia, different varieties are popular in the different regions: Basmati rice is popular in South Asia, Jasmine rice in Southeast Asia, and long-grain rice in China and short-grain rice in Japan and Korea.
Often, barbecue meat items are marinated with olive oil and citrus juice mixtures, and then garnished with various herbs and spices; basic persillade and several variations are often put on top of the meat.
A chushkopek (Bulgarian: Чушкопек, literally: pepper-roaster) is a uniquely Bulgarian kitchen appliance for roasting peppers, aubergines or potatoes, generally used in salads.
Curry paste Pesto Cheese and milk Cheeses always start out as food pastes, but most of them become harder during the fermentation and curing processes.
See also Fish knife Fish fork References Further reading Rabinovitch, Benton Seymour; Macapia, Paul, eds.
It is a small flat strip of steel with a hinged sharpened cutting blade that lies flat against the body when not in use.
Porous bags Some dry products, typically grains, are sold in perforated plastic bags and designed for convenient cooking directly in the enclosure.
It was inspired by the "jerking" action the server would implement to drive the fountain handle back and forth when adding soda.
The oven technique is similar to the preparation of baked eggs, the difference being that the preparation of baked eggs does not have to employ a water bath.
In 2010, it was estimated that gutter oil represented 10% of China's edible oil market (with 1 in every 10 restaurants using it) and that 3 million tonnes of gutter oil were consumed in China annually, with a network of distributors of gutter oil across central and eastern China.
After the herb has been allowed to steep in the liquid for an appropriate period of time, it is removed (possibly by straining) leaving an infusion.
A wet grinder consists of granite stones rotating inside a metal drum with the help of an electric motor.
Modern bottle scrapers include a spatula-side with right angles useful for scraping vla out of these containers as well.
Hot salt frying is an old cooking technique, and is used in villages throughout Asia and other parts of the world.
In February 2018, five production runs of Instant Pot Gem 65 8-in-1 Multicookers were recalled because they were overheating and subsequently melting due to a manufacturing defect.
As the batter revolved on the hot grill, the pancake was flipped halfway through the cooking process by a shelf atop the grill.
Influential tea masters praised the rough, spontaneous, wabi-sabi, appearance of Japanese rural wares, mostly stoneware, over the perfection of Chinese-inspired porcelain made by highly skilled specialists.
Examples might include a chocolate brownie that is cosmetically disfigured but otherwise edible, or unused portions of cookie dough.
Prior to the introduction of the caboose the furnaces for cooking were, aboard three-deckers, placed on the middle deck, and aboard two-decked ships in the forecastle.
In the 1960s, as supermarkets began selling ready meals, cauliflower cheese was invoked by Elizabeth David as a symbol of good British cooking as she asked wistfully whether a day would come that "it's going to be clever to serve some relaxed English dish like cauliflower cheese".
In China the term had been used starting in 2012 to discuss stargazy pie, a Cornish dish that exemplified "all that the Chinese find baffling about Western cooking".
Other products where drum drying can be used are, for example, starches, breakfast cereals, baby food, and instant mashed potatoes to make them cold-water-soluble.
En papillote (French pronunciation: [ɑ̃ papijɔt]; French for "enveloped in paper"), or al cartoccio in Italian, is a method of cooking in which the food is put into a folded pouch or parcel and then baked.
Training Development chefs need sufficient training in culinary arts, experimental food methods and food science plus adequate experience in the actual preparation of dishes.
Additionally, foods with a higher water content are more subject to carry over cooking as water has a higher heat capacity and will have more heat to distribute throughout the food item.
In Holland and England competition grew between the noble families as to who could prepare the most lavish banquet.
Here the chef is typically responsible for designing dishes and ensuring that the local kitchen staff can create/prepare them to an exact standard.
Ironstone china: patented in 1813, often classed as earthenware, but very strong and vitreous, and popular for wares with heavy usage.
In addition to goods being traded, knowledge of food preparation and also worked to add to the field of botany.
In 2013 the fitness activities, lectures and 24-hour fruit bar (as well as gourmet fruit-based dinners) drew in excess of 600 participants for the 7-day festival.
See also Propane torch Lighter Blowtorch List of cooking appliances Oxy-fuel welding and cutting References External links LPG Burner
South Asia In South Asia, regular unstrained yogurt ("curd"), made from cow or water buffalo milk, is often sold in disposable clay bowls called kulhar.
According to family lore, in 1892 Alfredo began to work in a restaurant located in Piazza Rosa that was run by his mother, Angelina.
It raised an unprecedented $100,000 via Kickstarter in 2013, was named Publication of the Year in 2014 by the James Beard Foundation, inducted into the Library of Congress in 2019, and won the IACP Digital Media Award for Best Group Food Blog in 2020.
Ebon Moss-Bachrach as Richard "Richie" Jerimovich, Michael's best friend, the de facto manager of the restaurant; later maître d'hôtel of The Bear.
Using hands to apply a moderate pressure and to rotate the tube on a cutting board or a table makes the skin come off the clove.
In the end of the 1990s, the microwave technology had reached a stage where Haamer's idea was patented.
References External links Micvac is mentioned on the website SIK - the Swedish Institute for Food and Biotechnology.
Baking, grilling, or broiling food, especially starchy foods, until a toasted crust is formed generates significant concentrations of acrylamide.
Though the prevalent license-permit raj in Indian bureaucracy ended for most retailing in the 1990s, it continues in this trade.
In 2012 the Moroccan government planned for increased production, then around 2,500 tonnes, to 4,000 tonnes by 2020.
The occurrence of starch degradation into sugar by the enzyme amylase was most commonly known to take place in the Chloroplast, but that has been proven wrong.
The pellicle plays a role in producing better smoked products as it acts as a protective barrier for the food and also plays a role in enhancing the flavor and color produced by the smoke.
Other tourist businesses use substitutes instead of vegetation or use an imu pao, an above ground variation of the imu.
Related works An earlier rejected study by Karsten, Oppstilling ved vindu is located on the back side of his painting Pløyemark from 1909.
Ymer is mixed with sugar, gelatin, and cream to create the desert ymerfromage (fromage meaning dessert cream in Danish).
In a related usage, the amount of a reagent, whose precise quantity is unimportant, will sometimes be given in terms of the number of drops, often from a glass pipette.
External links Media related to Sinks at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of sink at Wiktionary
Yeast extracts Yeast extracts, usually as byproduct from brewing beer, are made into food pastes, usually dark-brown in colour.
Characteristics Guiso's name gives the implication that it is made up of foods fried rehogado that are cooked in sauce.
Comparing the coddling cooking technique to boiling when it comes to whole eggs, the process of coddling takes a longer time due to the use of a lower cooking temperature, but it produces a more tender egg.
Due to its portability, it is widely used in the Horn of Africa and Southwestern Asia; especially by nomads.
In 1985, Henri was joined by his son Niels Peteri, and on 1 September 1987, they founded the company Henri Peteri B.V., the brand name 'Quooker' was later created by Niels.
Cheesemakers also need to be skilled in grading cheese to assess quality, assessing defects and suitability for release, and cheese ripening.
A sink should have a clear counter area of at least 60 cm (24 in) on one side, and at least 45 cm (18 in) on the other side.
Despite the exclusive nature of the job and the status levels of those they prepared food for, the occupation of the cook during Ming times was not a highly coveted profession due to the amount of animal killing involved with being a cook.
DCI Cheese Company Sheana Davis – maker of Delice de la Vallee and other fresh cheeses and owner of the Epicurean Connection.
maxima, related, yet different pumpkin species, yielded the following ranges for the percentage of several fatty acids: The sum of myristic and palmitic acid content ranged from 12.8 to 18.7%.
Various spices can be added to the Turkmen bread: cumin, cinnamon, olives, mustard seeds, sunflower seeds, and other flavoring ingredients.
Examples Examples include ice cream topped with chili crisp; a combination dreamed up by chef Christine Flynn of "Velveeta foam, spherified Gatorade and Doritos crushed into a decorative "soil"; and "struggle plates": documentation of home cooking disasters that the unfortunate cook ate anyway.
Specifically, perilla oil is more common in the southern part of Korea as perilla is cultivated more easily in the warmer areas.
Flambéing is often associated with the tableside presentation of certain liqueur-drenched dishes set aflame, such as Bananas Foster or Cherries Jubilee when the alcohol is ignited and results in a flare of blue-tinged flame.
This equation is used to find the zeta potential, which is calculated to find the electrokinetic potential in colloidal dispersions.
"They dressed in strong 'stuff' gowns and quilted petticoats; their hair, caps and bonnets were flattened into one indistinguishable mass upon their heads.
The addition of methanol, which is poisonous, renders denatured alcohol unfit for consumption, as ingesting denatured alcohol may result in serious injury or death.
Ashbourne patented the first biscuit cutter in the US, useful for cutting multiple cookies, cakes, or baking powder biscuits at once.
In organic synthesis, a synthetic procedure will often call for the addition of a reagent "dropwise" with the aid of a syringe or a dropping funnel.
Cupbearers are mentioned further in 1 Kings 10:5, and 2 Chronicles 9:4, where they, among other evidences of royal splendor, are stated to have impressed the Queen of Sheba with Solomon's glory.
Larger fire blankets, for use in laboratory and industrial situations, are often made of wool – sometimes treated with a flame retardant chemical such as hexafluorozirconate and zirconium acetate.
Timeline 1950s – Morrison took on its first contract food service job, catering for the set of the movie The Greatest Show on Earth.
The mushikamado is a round clay pot with a removable domed clay lid and is typically found in Southern Japan.
The cooks and caterers guild – informally known as the traiteurs – progressively claimed the right to make any sophisticated meals, leaving inns and taverns to mainly make roast or grilled meat.
T Tillamook County Creamery Association – dairy cooperative headquartered in Tillamook County, Oregon, best known for its cheddar cheese.
All six units are the traditional British equivalents of the US customary cup and the metric cup, used in situations where a US cook would use the US customary cup and a cook using metric units the metric cup.
Further reduction of glucosinolate levels remains important for the use of rapeseed meal in animal feed.
These trades were facilitated by rich merchant states that traded with them, the most notable being Venice.
Tingvollost, family farm in Tingvoll Municipality in Norway, makes the Kraftkar (World Champion in World Cheese Awards, 2016).
The formation of a relatively rigid yet flexible matrix from egg white is an important component in baking cakes and underpins many desserts based on meringue.
It is considered offensive to the dead and gods to put chopsticks vertically into food as it mimics this practice.
References External links The ORIGINAL Christmas Dessert, includes an explanation and example usage of pudding cloth
Since the blood is no longer being circulated through the body, the lactic acid starts to break down the muscle and connective tissues around it.
The bioavailability of some vitamins such as thiamin, vitamin B6, niacin, folate, and carotenoids are increased with cooking by being freed from the food microstructure.
In the United States, a 1980s gourmet food movement evolved from a long-term division between elitist (or "gourmet") tastes and a populist aversion to fancy foods.
They are also used for balling other soft fleshy fruits, trying small bits of other foods such as ice cream, or making chocolate truffles.
She then cooked at Chez Panisse and was a student for eighteen years at the San Francisco Zen Center.
It is a variant of sinangag (garlic fried rice) and is similar to bagoong fried rice, which uses bagoong (shrimp paste).
The French state bought it in the sale of Soult's collection in 1858 and it has hung in the Louvre, in Paris, ever since.
The stove serves a dual purpose: it acts as a platform for cooking and, when flipped upside down, as a windbreak to shelter the flame during cooking.
Jewish cuisine In Ashkenazi Jewish cuisine, meatloaf is called Klops (Hebrew: קלופס) and can be served cold or hot.
Electrical stoneware: historically used for electrical insulators, although it has been replaced by electrical porcelain.
This is by virtue of the heat retention properties of the ceramic shell with temperatures up to 750 °F (400 °C).
Nutmeg graters are normally metal, cylindrical or half-cylindrical, the surface perforated with small rasped holes.
Sujeo (Korean: 수저) is the Korean term for the set of eating utensils commonly used to eat Korean cuisine.
Rotating horizontally over embers: In this version the meat may be subject to smoke from dripping fat that burns.
Wu's food stall attracted a wide clientele including diplomats and wealthy businesspeople despite serving a relatively cheap and unsophisticated dish; however, it was later destroyed by flooding originating from a typhoon during which Wu almost drowned.
On some models vertical blades cut to produce julienne, or a wavy blade is used that produces crinkle cuts.
They smoked small pipes of tobacco, took snuff, drank gin and were known for their colourful language." In the 18th century, fishwives frequently appeared in satires as fearsome scourges of fops and foreigners.
See also Cream of Wheat Halva List of porridges Sago pudding Rice pudding Tapioca pudding Milk kissel Suji ka halwa == References ==
Preparation Ingredients used in Note by Note cuisine are called compounds, which include water, ethanol, sucrose, protein, amino acids and lipids.
2011 - Morrison Management Specialist was divided into three sectors, under its parent company Compass Group (Morrison Healthcare, Morrison Senior Living, Touchpoint Support Services) References External links Morrison Healthcare Morrison Community Living
As of 2020, the main cosmetics products containing argan oil are face creams, lip glosses, shampoos, moisturizers, and soaps.
A honey dipper (also called a honey dripper, honey wand, honey stick, honey spoon, or honey drizzler) is a kitchen utensil used to collect viscous liquid (generally honey or syrup) from a container, which is then dispensed at another location.
Production Oil from pumpkin seeds is extracted by solvent extraction or by supercritical carbon dioxide methods.
Mithaecus's cookbook was an early one, but most of it has been lost; Athenaeus quotes one short recipe in his Deipnosophistae.
In most homemade diets for dogs, a variety of ingredients are included which may include: Fresh raw meat (mostly lean meat with the exception of pork for some dogs, beef is the most commonly used) Vegetables such as squash, pumpkin, leafy greens, carrots, parsley, etc.
Traditional spurtles have stylised thistles at the top, while modern ones often have a smooth taper.
In 1911, General Electric produced a prototype electric waffle iron, and production began around 1918.
She has created ‘Eat The Book’ experiences, celebrating African food from African writing by creating the dishes at literary and arts festivals.
Diamond Surface (Hydrogen-Terminated) Diamond surfaces with hydrogen termination are hydrophobic, making them suitable for non-stick applications.
Noteworthy dishes pioneered by Adrià himself include his potato omelette, which consists of onion jam, liquid egg, and potato foam layered atop one another in a milkshake glass.
Production and distribution The burjiko is made from sepiolite mined from Somalia's central district of El Buur.
In the middle of the 18th century, the chocolatiere was commonly featured in family portraits, intended to represent an ideal maintained among the aristocracy of social situations marked by temperance as an alternative to alcohol.
Cooking spray is a spray form of an oil as a lubricant, lecithin as an emulsifier, and a propellant such as nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide or propane.
Applications Brazing, soldering, plumbing Often used as daily task tools, butane torches work very well for home improvement and work to solve problems with plumbing, soldering, and brazing.
The tube peeler was invented by Ben Omessi, a retired American architect who was designing home items for people with disabilities and it was patented in 1998.
The wash water is heated with an in-tank electric heat element and mixed with a cleaning solution, and is used repeatedly from one load to the next.
See also Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Bill, 2012 Tea lady, a similar occupation in Britain == References ==
European machines and some high-end North American machines use passive methods for drying – a stainless steel interior helps this process and some models use heat exchange technology between the inner and outer skin of the machine to cool the walls of the interior and speed up drying.
Denaturation is the process by which foods or liquids are made unpleasant or dangerous to consume; it is done by adding a substance known as a denaturant.
One of the most pressing jobs of mashgichim, however, is the checking in and verification of shipments.
The spurtle (or "spurtel", "spurtil", "spirtle", or "spartle") is a wooden Scottish kitchen tool, dating from the 15th century, that is used to stir porridge, soups, stews, and broths.
The work done by the school was later expanded into the two-volume Mastering the Art of French Cooking series, published in 1961 and 1970, and Child wore the logo of the school as a badge for much of her television career.
Proponents of the whole prey model diet believe dogs and cats are natural carnivores and do not have any nutritional needs besides what is found in meat, bones, and organs.
Sticky candies, such as Mike and Ike, that are often sold in bulk vending machines may be sprayed with cooking spray to keep them from sticking together in the machines.
Horsehair mesh tamises were previously common, but are now difficult to find outside of antique stores.
Background In 2003, the Rio hotel and casino introduced their bevertainers, who worked as cocktail servers and as entertainers.
Brightly painted and artfully arranged, arabber carts became a common sight on the streets of Baltimore.
The concept of cooking in a tagine appears in the famous One Thousand and One Nights, an Arabic-language story collection from the 9th century.
In late 19th-century recipes, the custard is elaborately flavored and scented with citron, orange flower water, and vanilla sugar.
Contrastingly, frothing skim milk, which has significantly less amounts of fats and protein, will produce a lighter and thinner foam.
A heavy ganache can require twice as much dark chocolate as cream by weight, or 2.5 times as much milk chocolate or white chocolate.
It is made of salted strained yogurt or diluted yogurt mixed with cucumbers, garlic, salt, olive oil, red wine vinegar, sometimes with lemon juice, and herbs such as dill, mint, parsley and thyme.
Heating may be either direct, by means of a parabolic mirror which concentrates sunlight on the underside of the mitad, or indirect, by focusing the sun's rays on a boiler to generate steam, which can be used to heat the mitad.
This allowed for a clear view between the two spaces—enabling the person cooking to keep an eye on children in the dining room, while making kitchen activities visible from the adjoining space.
Archaeological excavations have uncovered pottery cooking vessels known as yan steamers: a yan was composed of two vessels, a zeng with a perforated floor surmounted on a pot or caldron with a tripod base and a top cover.
Namerō is grilled directly on an iron griddle, stuffed into scallop or abalone shells or wrapped in sarutoriibara or camellia leaves.
147.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Bishop's recipe includes a note that "in some parts of the country" the hare is cooked in ale with bacon.
Etymology Used in English since the late 18th century, the word cuisine—meaning manner or style of cooking—is borrowed from the French for 'style of cooking' (literally 'kitchen'), as originally derived from Latin coquere, 'to cook'.
They are normally made of a fine metal mesh or a metal sheet with numerous small holes, to allow steam to exit the pan but not oil.
Gallery See also List of cheese dishes Notes References External links Recipe from A Book of Household Management by Isabella Beeton Archived 2007-03-04 at the Wayback Machine
As largely a commercial appliance, dipper well valves are typically kept at full flow during all serving hours.
Contestants Challenges Episode 1: Premiere Episode 2: Meringue Episode 3: Patisserie Episode 4: Cookies Episode 5: Desserts Episode 6: Fruits Episode 7: Argentina Since this episode was 3 challenges.
Dry-aging beef For dry-aged beef, the meat is hung in a room kept between 33–37 degrees Fahrenheit (1–3 degrees Celsius), with relative humidity of around 85%.
Due to their health aspect (cooking without any oil), food steamers are used extensively in health-oriented diets such as cuisine minceur, some raw food diets, the Okinawa diet, a macrobiotic diet, or the CRON-diet.
It is important to trap heat energy and reduce convection by isolating the air inside the cooker from the air outside the cooker.
Although many recipes require eggs to be at room temperature, it is easiest to separate eggs that are cold.
The oil content of the actual amaranth grain ranges from 4.8 to 8.1%, which is relatively low compared to other sources of seed oil.
Butter ganache: More common in Europe, this is made with warm, tempered chocolate and softened butter.
Typical uses Sweet Prior to the 19th century, the English Christmas pudding was boiled in a pudding cloth.
This function is only applicable to programs which do not require user intervention throughout the process and in which ingredients may safely stay at room temperature for the delay.
Each issue has 12 recipes which are selected as nutritious, ethnically diverse, and inexpensive to make, as well as games, exercises, and food facts.
The JCCoE also runs the annual Joint Culinary Training Exercise (JCTE) competition, the largest American Culinary Federation (ACF) competition in North America.
It is customary in the United States to tip the cocktail waitress for serving drinks, even in casinos which offer free drinks to active gamblers.
It premiered on April 8, 2018, and it is hosted by Paula Chaves with judges Christophe Krywonis, Damián Betular and Pamella Villar.
For this reason, it is important to keep the heat low and the poaching time to a bare minimum, which will also preserve the flavor of the food.
Finding foods that provide sufficient amounts of calcium to maintain a good ratio is challenging, as many foods that are high in calcium are also high in phosphorus.
The company also runs a competition every year, 'Bundts Across America', celebrating the best Bundt cake creations as well as holding cooking classes twice a week.
Kettle corn, a sweet variety of popcorn that is typically mixed or seasoned with a light-colored refined sugar, salt, and oil.
Compassion of South Africa, a non-sectarian Christian action group opposing Apartheid, and the particular assistance from Brigid Oppenheimer facilitated Shirley's design and marketing and published a comprehensive recipe book with a lot of graphics to help illiterate users follow the recipes.
Deep-fried food has been a core part of the culture of the American South with many restaurants solely serving deep-fried foods.
Other restaurants in the city of New Orleans soon followed, with the dish gaining in popularity with locals and tourists alike.
Types Beverage openers vary in size but commonly include a glass bottle crown cork remover, glass bottle threaded metal crown cork cap grip for greater twisting torque, a plastic bottle cap grip for greater twisting torque and a stay tab lever for metal beverage cans.
The temperatures indicated above are the peak temperatures in the cooking process, so the meat should be removed from the heat source when it is some degrees cooler (depending on power of heat source, size of cut).
It was used as a safer form of heating equipment than was available previously and could be used to cook small morsels of food.
Green sauce or greensauce is a family of cold, uncooked sauces based on chopped herbs, including the Spanish and Italian salsa verde, the French sauce verte, the German grüne Soße or Frankfurter grie Soß (Frankfurt dialect), the British mint sauce and greensauce, and the Argentinian chimichurri.
Carryover cooking is often used as a finishing step in preparation of foods that are roasted or grilled, and should be accounted for in recipes as it can increase the internal temperature of foods by temperatures between 5 and 25 degrees Fahrenheit (3–14°C).
Slow cookers do not provide sufficient heat to compensate for loss of moisture and heat due to frequent removal of the lid, e.g., to add and remove food in perpetual stews, (pot-au-feu, olla podrida).
The outfits were initially not received well by the co-founders, but Hefner advised that it could work once changes were made.
Most schools also offer training in resume preparation, how to act at a job interview, and where they should start looking for employment.
In American collectibles and antiques, toleware refers to kitchen-related objects created from metal, typically tin or thin steel, and are often in decorative styles such as Arts and Crafts and Pennsylvania Dutch.
Uses in food Macadamia nut oil possesses properties conducive to high-heat cooking, such as a high smoke point and resistance to oxidative degradation.
After metrication in Canada, milk and other liquids in pre-packaged containers came in metric sizes so conversion issues could no longer arise.
With the pestle tip placed in the bottom of the strainer, it is rolled against the sides of the device to work liquids and soft food through it.
However, such refiners can also have illegal side business, as the prices attained by selling it as cooking oil are much higher than if it is sold to the chemical or energy industries such as KBR Energy.
These scenarios also lead Western trends toward blades tempered to a lower level of hardness (and thus lower brittleness).
The starch prevents over-cooking the eggs, and sets the cream (usually requiring it to be beaten or whipped before use).When gelatin is added, it is known as crème anglaise collée ([kʁɛm ɑ̃ɡlɛz kɔle]).
Khorovats, khashlama, fish like the sevan trout, and khash are the most popular meat-dishes that are prepared by using a tonir.
It is then served with a variety of toppings including but not limited to white cheese, cinnamon powder and pistachios.
Les Dames d'Escoffier is an international society of professional women involved in the food, fine beverage, and hospitality industries.
In French Provincial Cooking (1960), Elizabeth David gives a list of typical items in a batterie de cusine: Other kitchen implements used by French, English, American and Canadian cooks and food writers include: References Sources Beck, Simone; Louisette Bertholle; Julia Child (2012) [1961].
Related Malmö, Sweden, hosts the Disgusting Food Museum which opened in 2018 and encourages visitors to "question what they find disgusting".
The mirror has to be occasionally tilted about a perpendicular axis to compensate for the seasonal variation in the Sun's declination.
For example, a mixture of titanium and ceramic can be sandblasted onto the pan surface, and then fired at 2,000 °C (3,630 °F) to produce a non-stick ceramic coating.
Application The kitchen work triangle principle is used by kitchen designers and architects when designing residential kitchens.
(90-110 °C) Pasta – heats to a boiling point and pauses with notification to the user that ingredients may be added (further automation would exclude human intervention to release ingredients).
With a timerless cooker it is possible to use an external timer to stop cooking after a set time, or both to start and stop.
A multicooker (also written "multi cooker") is an electric kitchen appliance for automated cooking using a timer.
They usually serve tea in a small glasses or unglazed clay teacups (kulhar) but have started to use plastic cups.
The rotation will push the cloves to bounce between the wall and the bumpy surface, taking the skin off.
Etymology The word whisk, given its similarity to equivalent words in modern Scandinavian languages, was probably borrowed from Old Norse.
The single cup of milk is stored in a sealed (foil cover) plastic cup of milk or cream with long shelf life but must be refrigerated.
Upon cooking, the food can be drained easily by removing the bag from the water, without use of additional kitchen utensils.
It can be combined with seafood like shrimp and squid and eaten as is, or eaten paired with meat dishes.
The primary difference both in the past and today between a Belfast and London sink is that the Belfast sink is fitted with an overflow weir which prevented water from spilling over the sink's edge by draining it away and down into the wastewater plumbing.
Theophrastos, in the fourth century BC, had very strong opinions about which oils to use to make perfumes, and ben oil was firmly at the top of the list.
To get a consistent batch of juice the whole charge is allowed to extract and then bottled when complete; draining of the juice as it extracts will result in different compositions from start to end of the batch.
Later stoves obviated the necessity for this arrangement, but in the early twentieth century it was still to be seen in great numbers of country cottages and farmhouse kitchens all over England, and in small artisan's houses in the West Midlands and the North.
Pottery and cooking technique The traditional tagine pottery is earthenware, sometimes painted or glazed, and consists of two parts: a circular base unit that is flat with low sides and a large cone- or dome-shaped cover that sits on the base during cooking.
It consisted of a board to roll the dough out on, which was hinged to a metal plate with various cutting spring-loaded shapes mounted to it.
In a microwave, waxed paper can be used to prevent splatters by covering the food when microwave cooking.
Michael Karl Witzel describes an archetypal soda jerk as "[a] consummate showman, innovator and freelance linguist ...
Associate, bachelor, and graduate degree programs are offered in restaurant management by community colleges, junior colleges, and some universities in the United States and elsewhere.
It is a variant of sinangag (garlic fried rice) and is similar to aligue fried rice, which uses taba ng talangka (crab fat paste).
Due to the microscopic pores caused by the casting process, cast aluminium has a lower thermal conductivity than sheet aluminium.
Manufacturers include functional items, for example some from Josiah Wedgwood to more sculptural contemporary works by Ane Christensen.
Arthur Bremer, American failed assassin of George Wallace in 1972, and whose diary became the basis for the movie Taxi Driver, was demoted from busser to custodian at the Milwaukee Athletic Club when he was caught talking to himself.
Most cooking sprays have less food energy per serving than an application of vegetable oil, because they are applied in a much thinner layer: US regulations allow many to be labelled "zero-calorie"; in the UK sprays claim to supply "less than 1 calorie per serving".
ISBN 978-0-8247-4780-0.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 (link) Cristina Plotka, V.; Clark, S.
High-alcohol liquors, such as Bacardi 151 or Everclear, are highly flammable and considered too dangerous by professional cooks.
Commonly made of lacquered bamboo, teak or beechwood, the daunglan is served with small bowls consisting of various dishes and soups.
A large wok is filled with sand, which turns black from accumulating carbonized particles from the food items being fried, and heated to high temperature.
Oil made from pressed and toasted sesame seeds is amber-colored and aromatic, and is used as a flavoring agent in the final stages of cooking.
The houses were positively received by the architect Stefan Doernberg, who published an essay on the one-kitchen house problem in 1911.
See also Sofrito Mirepoix (cuisine) Holy trinity (cooking) List of cooking techniques Sautéing == References ==
Another commenter, after requesting "dark cuisine" combinations from her chef friends, listed sliced roast beef topped with blueberry yogurt, sausage with peanut butter and onions, and chili crisp peanut brittle.
Deconstructed cuisine, or deconstructivism, is a style and theory of experimental cuisine which seeks to deconstruct the cooking and preparation of food, drawing both from the scientific study of molecular gastronomy and from the culinary arts.
Casserole pots (for making casseroles) resemble roasters and Dutch ovens, and many recipes can be used interchangeably between them.
Carne asada (literally meaning "roasted meat") consists of marinated cuts of beef rubbed with salt and pepper, and then grilled.
See also Food portal Colander Filter Zaru References External links The dictionary definition of chinois at Wiktionary
Both are working classrooms designed as a restaurant setting, in which the students prepare and serve food and drink to paying customers.
It is eaten paired with meat and seafood dishes, or is cooked with chunks of meat and seafood and eaten as is.
Deep-fried foods such as funnel cakes arrived in northern Europe by the 13th century, and deep-fried fish recipes have been found in cookbooks in Spain and Portugal at around the same time.
He was later able to develop a highly successful career as a comedian and left the restaurant business.
Critiques of raw diets include the concern with the possible nutrient imbalances that can arise feeding any type of raw diet.
References Education in Dumaguete retrieved from [1], on 2010-07-04 Ladderized Education in the Philippines [2], on 2010-08-02 External links Dumaguete Academy for Culinary Arts official website
The name is Chavacano and Philippine Spanish for "toasted boiled rice." It is a very old dish adapted from Chinese fried rice with influences from Spanish cuisine by Chinese Filipino immigrants in the Spanish colonial era of the Philippines.
Cover the fire with the fire blanket, and it will help cut the oxygen supply and extinguish the fire.
The content in ChopChop is designed to teach cooking and nutrition to children for the purpose of combating childhood obesity.
When the Dublin Institute of Technology merged with IT Tallaght and IT Blanchardstown on 1 January 2019 to become Ireland's first Technological University, the School of Culinary Arts and Food Technology became part of the TU Dublin City Campus.
The kernels are then later retrieved from the goat droppings, considerably reducing the labour involved in extraction at the expense of some potential gustatory aversion.
Breadcrumbs are a culinary ingredient consisting of flour or crumbled bread of varying dryness, sometimes with seasonings added.
History Ganache was said to have been created accidentally in the 1850s in Paris at a confectionary shop owned by Paul Siraudin, after an apprentice spilled cream on chocolate, prompting his master to call him "ganache" (meaning "idiot").
The upper class had access to these items and held "banquets [that were] as opulent as possible, with as many rich dishes as possible, larger quantities of food, and extravagant use of spices".
In many Hessian families, Green Sauce is part of the traditional meal eaten on Maundy Thursday, relating to its German name Gründonnerstag (lit.
In the case of corn, the embers are doused with water and the corn is then inserted into the horno to be steam-cooked.
A traditional smooth honing steel is of no use if the edge is blunt, because it removes no material; instead it fixes deformations along the edge of a sharp blade, technically known as burnishing.
三辛焼き spelling: The spelling derived from the use of three (三) spicy (辛) foods: ginger, green onion, and perilla.
Ida Joscelyne's book, The Marvellous Little Housekeepers (1880), mentions both rum and kirsch; another recipe appears in A.G.
When making a new flavor of mousse, an important rule is the body is formed of whipping cream and either separated egg yolks or whites (almost never both in the same dish), and frequently, gelatin.
As a result, it has a higher content of solids, including protein, while the addition of cream to the final product is used to maintain ymer's fat content at 3.5%, the same as that of whole milk.
The company regularly participated in world trade fairs and in 1996 opened its first foreign branch in Italy.
For example, the bitterant denatonium might be added to food used in a laboratory, where such food is not intended for human consumption.
Compared to the narrow rectangular form of the Frankfurt kitchen, the square configuration was seen as an improvement.
"Molecular gastronomy is a scientific discipline, and note by note cuisine is the next culinary trend".
The mandrel is inserted into the exposed flesh of the fruit and then either the reamer or the fruit is twisted to grind the flesh and extract the juice.
Di Lelio's fame and success grew (he was knighted by the King of Italy, making him a Cavaliere dell'Ordine della Corona d'Italia) until war rationing made it increasingly difficult to obtain flour, eggs, and butter.
Besides the work triangle, there are several rules of thumb to consider when planning a kitchen: As measured between countertops and cabinets or appliances, work aisles should be no less than 110 cm (42 in) for one cook, or 120 cm (48 in) for multiple cooks.
The problems were the subject of constant criticism from labour movement organizations, as well as social policy associations, academics and housing reformers.
The assumption is that the production of biomass decreases the food supply, causing an increase in world hunger by extracting the organic materials such as corn and soybeans for fuel rather than food.
AIS / WSA – Professional Sommelier Diploma: AIS Professional (Gold) Sommelier Diploma, which is released by Italian Sommelier Association after candidate's career assessment.
A fishmonger (historically fishwife for female practitioners) is someone who sells raw fish and seafood.
Because those temperatures are not reached in pressure cooking, foods are generally browned by searing them, either in the open pressure cooker or another pan beforehand.
Description and history Traditionally, colanders are made of a light metal, such as aluminium or thinly rolled stainless steel.
Either sesame or perilla oil can be used for flavoring namul (vegetable side dishes) and other sides, pan-frying jeon (pan-fried dishes), coating gim (laver) before roasting it, and forming the flavor base for dipping sauce.
A cocktail waitress, colloquially known as a bottle girl, is a female server who brings alcoholic drinks to patrons of drinking establishments such as bars, cocktail lounges, casinos, comedy clubs, jazz clubs, cabarets, and other live music venues.
The first model was marketed as a "6-in-1" device and operated as a pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice or porridge cooker, yogurt maker, sauté/searing pan, steamer, and food warmer.
Prior to Nordic Ware, the grain elevator carried the sign for 'Lumber Stores Inc' until Nordic Ware purchased the land as it expanded and invested $40,000 in a restoration project of it.
Babassu oil is about 70% lipids, in the following proportions: Lauric and myristic acids have melting points relatively close to human body temperature, so babassu oil can be applied to the skin as a solid that melts on contact.
Food steamers release less heat to the kitchen environment, therefore helping keep the kitchen cool during hot summers.
Some commercial dishwashers work similarly to a commercial car wash, with a pulley system that pulls the rack through a small chamber (known widely as a "rack conveyor" systems).
Panko Panko (パン粉) is a type of flaky breadcrumbs used in Japanese cuisine as a crunchy coating for fried foods, such as tonkatsu.
Pontypool and Usk in South Wales made a reputation for tôle imitating Japanese lacquer starting in the early 19th century.
The term was sometimes also applied to the cast-iron stove used for cooking on deck or in galleys during the early 19th century, as well as an outdoor oven or fireplace.
George Kirby, American comedian, singer and actor, worked as a busser at Chicago's Club DeLisa for $13 per week, until his comedic impersonations earned him a trial on the club's stage, which launched his comedy career.
The larger and denser the object being heated, the greater the amount of temperature increase due to carryover cooking.
Chocolate beverages could be made in the devices by placing a compressed brick or cake of chocolate inside with hot water and foaming with a molinillo (known as moussoir in French) inserted through the hole in the top.
On June 25, 2025, 9ato Entertainment announced that Yoon Seo-ah would appear as Seo Gil-geum, a palace maid who befriends Yeon Ji-yeong.
Crisp 'n Dry is a brand of rapeseed oil manufactured by Edible Oils Limited and marketed by Princes Group.
Conversion 1 Dutch cask ≡ 32/21 Tub 1 Dutch cask ≡ 112 pounds(avdp.) 1 Dutch cask ≡ 50.80234544 kg == References ==
Temperatures in a tandoor can reach 480 °C (900 °F; 750 K), and they are routinely kept lit for extended periods.
According to the prevailing Orthodox opinion and the minority Conservative view, this is not relevant to the Shabbat, but is useful on some holidays, when adjusting the heat is allowed, but changing a digital readout on the control panel is not.
"Young women must master the art of using the oven to bake piki, a tasty, delicate paper-thin bread made of cornmeal, before they are considered fit for marriage." See also Adobe bread Clay oven List of ovens Kemence (in Hungarian) == References ==
Labaneh bil zayit, 'labaneh in oil', consists of small balls of dry labneh, sometimes covered with herbs or spices, kept in olive oil, where it can be preserved for over a year.
Description and usage The burjiko is circular in shape, with a deep hole running through its center where charcoal is placed.
Cold water quick release This method is the fastest way of releasing pressure with portable pressure cookers, but can be dangerous if performed incorrectly.
Recognition In 2013, ChopChop received the James Beard Foundation Award for Publication of the Year.
In April 2013, Blue Bell Creameries re-released the flavor in Louisiana and the Mississippi Gulf Coast region, and in 2018 released the flavor again in the Pine Belt area of Mississippi, most notably in the Ramey's supermarket chain.
Their mission is to improve dining facility (DFAC) food quality, staff efficiency and culinary knowledge via Food Management Assistance Teams (FMAT) to improve soldier readiness.
Mashgichim may supervise any type of food service establishment, including slaughterhouses, food manufacturers, hotels, caterers, nursing homes, restaurants, butchers, groceries, or cooperatives.
It is usually light pink in color due to the use of angkak (red yeast rice) coloring agent from the bagoong.
Splatter guards are generally circular, so as to fit the shape of a frying pan, and have a handle for ease of removal and safety.
A beverage opener (also known as a multi-opener) is a device used to open beverage cans, plastic bottles or glass bottles, which are the three most common beverage containers.
She received four additional nominations, and was inducted into the James Beard Foundation's "Who's Who of Food and Beverage in America" in 2005.
Mu kratha is prepared with sliced meat (most often pork) is grilled on the dome in the centre while the vegetables and other ingredients, such as fish balls, cook in the soup (also called Thai suki).
The Micvac system is a pasteurization method for the food processing industry producing ready meals.
The siru is also used during shamanic rituals and is even offered on the tables for daegamsin (대감신; 大監神, state official God).
Ventilation and exhaust Cooktops often have a kitchen hood installed overhead to expel or filter smoke, fumes and undesirable odors that result from cooking.
'chili with cheese'), sometimes simply called queso, is an appetizer or side dish of melted processed cheese and chili peppers, typically served in American Tex-Mex restaurants as a dip for tortilla chips.
A profession traditionally reserved mainly for men, Yuki Chizui is one of the few female sushi chefs and in 2010 she opened Akihabara, Tokyo, the first sushi restaurant with an all-female staff.
One of the claims for ceramic construction is it does not affect flavor (no metallic taste) and, for the same reasoning, lump wood charcoal produces little ash and is preferred.
Nordic Ware is one of the few remaining American cookware companies that produce their products almost entirely in the United States and also offers their products in 50 countries.
If the ganache is being infused with flavorings such as herbs or a tea, they are added to the hot (not boiling) cream and left to steep for several minutes.
Unlike mixers, which cut food into smaller pieces, a wet grinder crushes the food, resulting in different consistency.
A lusikkahaarukka therefore cannot be stored inside a Finnish mess tin as it would cause excessive noise in the mess tin.
In the 1980s, ceramic abrasives became increasingly popular and proved an equal, if not superior, method for accomplishing the same daily maintenance tasks; manufacturers replaced steels with ceramic (and later, manufactured diamond abrasive) sharpening "steels" that were actually hones.
Greece Greek-style tzatziki sauce is commonly served as a meze, to be eaten with pita bread, olives, fried eggplant, zucchini, or other vegetables.
Traditionally, this was accomplished by replacing the conical lid with a flat clay dish filled with hot coals, a technique known as "cooking between two fires".
Toasting forks of various sizes were advertised in the Harrods 1895 Catalogue, with prices ranging from threepence to one shilling and sixpence.
A splatter guard (or spatter guard) is a device placed over a frying pan to prevent hot oil from spitting out of the pan, which often happens when pan frying at a high temperature.
The vegetarianism practiced in much of India has made pulses (crops harvested solely for the dry seed) such as chickpeas and lentils as important as wheat or rice.
This allows one part of the egg to be used without the other part, or each part to be treated in different ways.
French fries, invented in the early 17th century in Chile, became popular in the early 19th century western Europe.
They also provide preventive and therapeutic programs at work places, schools and similar institutions.
A deconstructed salad, for example, might present its ingredients as separate portions on a single plate rather than mixed together, while a deconstructed sandwich might minimize or omit the role of bread in favor combining the interior ingredients directly into an almost salad-like presentation.
Some delicacies are confined to a certain culture, such as fugu in Japan and ant larvae (escamoles) in Mexico, or may refer to specific local products, such as porcino, venison or anchovy.
Job opportunities available in the Hospitals (Government or Private), private consultation companies.
Boil-in-bags are a form of packaged food products in which bagged food is heated or cooked in boiling water.
If some white is left with the yolk, carefully pass the yolk back and forth between halves until it is all drained, being sure not to puncture the yolk on the sharp edges of the shell.
It is said that the shichirin was an affordable way to cook a meal because the amount of charcoal needed for each lighting only cost seven rin.
It is usually served in Chinese Filipino restaurants in major Spanish-era cities like Manila, Cebu, Zamboanga, and Iloilo.
While they need to have general information about alcoholic drinks (e.g., to recognize the names of different kinds of liquor), they also need to learn the specifics of the particular establishment (e.g., the particular brands available at the moment).
With the help of a special (usually wooden, rarely porcelain) grinding stick with a ball-shaped end (called makohin in Ukraine), a makitra can be used for creaming cake batter, eggs with sugar, buttercream, quark for cheese cake, and poppy seeds for kutia.
In the original qidra style, saman (clarified butter) is used to lubricate the surface and a puree of chopped onion is added for flavour and aroma.
See also Dough scraper, a small, handheld, raw-dough working tool Washing paddle, a short handled, wooden washing tool Food portal References External links Media related to Peel (tool) at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of peel at Wiktionary
Curdling is the breaking of an emulsion or colloid into large parts of different composition through the physio-chemical processes of flocculation, creaming, and coalescence.
Pie funnels were used to prevent pie filling from boiling up and leaking through the crust by allowing steam to escape.
Nouvelle cuisine was a movement towards conceptualism and minimalism and was a direct juxtaposition to earlier haute cuisine styles of cooking, which were much more extravagant.
Recognition Kamman was recognized by chefs including James Beard for her discerning palate and knowledge of the history, culture and science of food, as well as her passion for celebrating the food cooked by women in the home as much as the masters of haute cuisine.
In popular culture The mascot of Honey Nut Cheerios, "BuzzBee", has carried various incarnations of honey dippers.
Cookie cutting sheet Used for larger volumes, a production cookie cutting sheet is a piece of sturdy plastic the size of a full sheet pan that essentially has dozens of cutout cookie cutters mounted on to it.
According to Kamman, "[w]hen you try to teach a cuisine that is not your own, there is always one dimension missing." Many have attributed Kamman's critique to professional jealousy based on Child's immense popularity with American audiences and the success of her "French chef" brand.
Italian Sommelier Association exclusively teaches a three-level certified sommelier course which leads to the achievement of an AIS Sommelier Diploma (Silver).
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
Subsequently, this alternative method of baking injera from sustainable energy sources contributes to implementation of a national biogas program.
See also Wine accessory Wine tasting References External links Media related to Carafes at Wikimedia Commons
Xylan is formulated as a composite system that typically combines one or more fluoropolymers—such as PTFE, perfluoroalkoxy alkane (PFA), and fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP)—with specialized binder resins to improve adhesion and wear resistance.
For example, the muscles in the meat continue to use the hemoglobin that is stored in the soft tissue of the animal.
For example, in Isaac Cruikshank's A New Catamaran Expedition!!!, a fleet of Billingsgate fishwives sails across the English Channel to terrorise the French and shame the British Prime Minister Pitt for his inaction.
Besides canjeero and sauce, burjikos are also often used to prepare pasta and meat dishes such as leg of lamb.
Operation A mandoline is used by running a piece of food (with some protection for fingers) along an adjustable inclined plane into one or more blades.
Morisqueta tostada is a Filipino fried rice dish characterized by the addition of sausage (chorizo de bilbao, chorizo de macao, or Chinese sausage), ham, shrimp, and spring onions.
To each their own, but no authentic fettuccine Alfredo recipe should include cream (because it dulls the flavor of the cheese)." The dish has its enthusiasts and its detractors.
In the late 17th century, nutmeg and nutmeg graters became associated with drinking punch, at that time a fashionable alcoholic beverage.
Gallery See also Custard List of desserts Pudding Media related to Mousse at Wikimedia Commons Chocolate Mousse at the Wikibooks Cookbook subproject == References ==
The AIS awarded the title of honorary sommelier to the pope Benedict XVI in 2006 and to the pope Francis in 2015.
Monounsaturated fatty acids in perilla oil are oleic (13-18%), while polyunsaturated fatty acids in perilla oil are linoleic (14-20%) and linolenic acids (54-64%).
The lid became opened via a hinge, and the hole covered by a finial that could be unscrewed or unhinged.
In homes it was traditionally eaten for breakfast and served with cream, fruit, or sugar; it can also be served on toast with butter, salt and pepper.
Popular Indonesian dishes that employ this cooking method include pepes, botok, buntil, and otak-otak (variations of this dish are also commonly available in neighboring Singapore and Malaysia).
Radappertization is a form of food irradiation which applies a dose of ionizing radiation sufficient to reduce the number and activity of viable microorganisms to such an extent that very few, if any, are detectable in the treated food by any recognized method (viruses being excepted).
Long sweet peppers are placed inside, the lid is replaced, and within several minutes the pepper is ready.
A chef de cuisine (French pronunciation: [ʃɛf.də.kɥi.zin], French for head of kitchen) also called CDC or head chef, is a chef who leads a kitchen and its cooks.
During February 2008, a mixture of babassu oil and coconut oil was used to partially power one engine of a Boeing 747, in a biofuel trial sponsored by Virgin Atlantic.
One example is the spinach plant, in which the chloroplast contains both alpha and beta amylase (They are different versions of amylase involved in the breakdown of starch and they differ in their substrate specificity).
Pellicles of protein that form prior to smoking meat (including fish and poultry) allow smoke to better adhere to the surface of the meat during the smoking process.
Shelby Co." Operation The P-38 is operated by pivoting its cutting tooth to its designed 95-degree position from its stowed position folded against the body.
Precise control of airflow (and thus temperature) afforded by the vent system means kamado-style cookers are much like wood-fired ovens and can be used to roast and bake.
The long-standing tradition and practice of insect consumption represented in Oaxaca, Mexico has occurred for centuries.
The Munich Kitchen was developed in response to widespread criticism of earlier models such as the Frankfurt and Stuttgart kitchens, which did not allow for children to be minded while cooking.
Structure Buttumaks in agrarian Korean kitchens were commonly made from brick or stone and then smoothed with clay.
Similar in size to a soup spoon (intermediate between a teaspoon and a tablespoon) but with an oval rather than round bowl, it typically has a capacity around twice that of a teaspoon.
The loop is placed through the cavity of the turkey and the lifter is used to lower and remove the turkey.
Which of these six units is used depends on the quantity or volume of the ingredient: there is division of labour between these six units, like the tablespoon and the teaspoon.
A thermal immersion circulator is an electrically powered device that circulates and heats a warm fluid kept at an accurate and stable temperature.
History Originally opened as Saint Mary's College of Domestic Science in Cathal Brugha Street in 1941, it became the Dublin College of Catering in the 1950s.
Membership is open to women who have distinguished themselves in the respective fields with which Les Dames is concerned.
From at least 1810 it was in the Alcázar of Seville, before being looted by Marshal Soult, arriving in his collection in Paris in 1813.
The blue Kitchen was first publicly exhibited at The Autumn Exhibition in Kristiania in 1913, and also at an exhibition in Copenhagen later the same year.
Domestic animals cooked in this fashion include chicken, domestic duck, pork, beef (including such organs as the liver), and domestic rabbit.
Etymology Shichirin being a compound word made up of the characters 七 (shichi or nana, "seven") and 輪 (rin or wa, "wheel", "loop", or "ring"), its coinage can be suggested through the individual kanji.
This hoped for a future in which recipes gave advice such as "add to your bouillon two drops of a 0.001 percent solution of benzylmercaptan in pure alcohol".
Cheese and tofu Milk and soy milk are curdled intentionally to make cheese and tofu by the addition of enzymes (typically rennet), acids (including lemon juice), or various salts (magnesium chloride, calcium chloride, or gypsum); the resulting curds are then pressed.
In the lower Yangzi River, zeng pots first appeared in the Hemudu culture (5000–4500 BC) and Liangzhu culture (3200–2000 BC) and were used to steam rice; yan steamers were also unearthed in several Liangzhu sites, including 3 found at the Chuodun and Luodun sites in southern Jiangsu.
Jugged hare is described in the influential 18th-century cookbook The Art of Cookery, by Hannah Glasse.
Barbecue varies by the type of meat, sauce, rub, or other flavorings used, the point in barbecuing at which they are added, the role smoke plays, the equipment and fuel used, cooking temperature, and cooking time.
Examples of foods from around the globe prepared like guiso are frangollo, ragout, locro, tripe, ossobuco, and puchero.
In addition to the choice of herbs and seasoning, the timing of when flavors are added will affect the food that is being cooked or otherwise prepared.
Other writing She has written for the magazines Gourmet, Saveur, Food and Wine, Kitchen Gardener, Fine Cooking, Orion, Organic Gardening and Eating Well, and for the Time-Life Cookbook Series.
Instead of forming the curds, they are said to have hung the clabber in a mesh bag in a tree and let the whey drain off.
Other uses Safety razor blades are traditionally wrapped in waxed paper to make handling them less dangerous.
Butcher paper is usually white or reddish in colour, made from kraft pulp, and is generally considered to have a density of between 30 lb/3000 sq ft (49 g/m2) and 50 lb/3000 sq ft (81 g/m2).
See also Tumbler (glass)#Culinary measurement unit Breakfast cup Cup (unit)#British cup Teacup (unit) Wine glass#Capacity measure Cooking weights and measures == References ==
The modern West Germanic and North Germanic languages, as well as Middle English, also have spurtle cognates that refer to a flat-bladed tool or utensil – so more akin to the couthie spurtle (see below) in shape.
Note by Note cuisine is a style of cooking based on molecular gastronomy, created by French chemist Hervé This.
Egg sauces In hot preparations emulsified with eggs like hollandaise and custard, curdling is the undesirable result of overheating the sauce.
Prior to use, peels are often sprinkled with flour, cornmeal, or milled wheat bran, to allow baked goods to easily slide onto and off them.
Some have been made from enamelled steel (a German trend) and the modern bare metal units have moved to stainless steel alloys to prevent aluminium from leaching into the juice at the time of preparation.
In al-Warraq's tenth-century cookbook, different regions used some of the same terms to mean different units of measurement and the relationships between them.
The P-38 is a foldable carbon steel can opener that was issued with canned United States military rations from its introduction in 1942 to the end of canned ration issuance in the 1980s.
Madison has won five James Beard Foundation Awards, including two for her 1997 cookbook Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone (one in 1998 - James Beard Vegetarian Book Award, and one in 2016 - James Beard Cookbook Hall of Fame).
Now most recipes, for health reasons, call for lighter oils, even though none of the oils penetrate the turkey because of the heat.
It is a source of fatty acids, with oleic acid, linoleic acid, and palmitic acid having the highest proportions.
Alternatively, the carrying surface may be made of sheet metal, which is attached to a wooden handle.
This oil is used in culinary applications as a frying or salad oil, and in cosmetics for its emollient properties and as a fragrance fixative.
Traditional foods and dishes are traditional in nature, and may have a historic precedent in a national dish, regional cuisine or local cuisine.
The true illipe nut is from the species Madhuca latifolia; it is used for producing biodiesel, and Mowrah Butter is from Madhuca longifolia, Family Sapotaceae.
Events Les Dames organizes various food-related activities throughout the year, the majority of which are dinners; new members are inducted during the "annual gala dinners".
I had transcended the limits imposed on women by generations of professional chefs and found myself succeeding in a so-called male profession." She believed by the 1990s that the next generation would see as many women as men reaching the top.
Slices can be made very quickly, with significantly less skill and effort than would be required if cutting with a knife or other blade, and adjustable mandolines can make very thin slices.
This dish can be considered a typical comfort food in Canada and the US, and so it is served in many diners and restaurants.
Many of those schools offer introductory one day courses in addition to two week long certification courses.
A siru consists of a handle, a body, and a bottom with holes, so that when placed above a fire, steam can easily reach the contents inside.
The Guardian described it as "Britain's most hated school pudding" with names such as fisheyes, frogspawn, and eyeball pudding.
After additional years of training as a wakiita, the apprentice can be appointed as an itamae, fully authorized to stand in front of the cutting board.
A business etiquette guide suggests that customers should refer to bussers and waiting staff with the gender-neutral terms busser and server rather than busboy or waiter.
Burén, also known as a budare or a budali, is a cooking utensil in Puerto Rican cuisine, that originated in Taino cuisine throughout the Greater Antilles.
In 1955 in the United States, an automatic pancake machine was developed by Vendo, which used a specially formulated pancake batter mix that was manufactured by the Quaker Oats Company's Aunt Jemima branch.
Babassu oil or cusi oil is a clear light yellow vegetable oil extracted from the seeds of the babassu palm (Attalea speciosa) which grows in the Amazon region of South America.
The English Christmas pudding was served flaming in Charles Dickens' 1843 novel, A Christmas Carol: "the pudding...
Additionally, commercial cheese sauce formulations have been used as an ingredient in processed canned vegetables in the United States.
Present-day traiteurs Today in France, a traiteur is a catering business devoted to take-out food and service of banquets.
A biscuit warmer (also folding biscuit box or bun warmer) is a kitchen utensil, for warming and serving biscuits.
A salsa verde with garlic, called agliata, is a traditional specialty of the Siena region on the feast day of Saint John.
Technique All methods for separating eggs make use of the fact that the yolk can hold itself together, while the white is more runny.
Molded and shaped fish mousse with bread and butter remains a popular meal of American cuisine, if not a party dip, although it is not as common as it was in the 1950s.
The use of cofiring does not stop this process but decreases the relative emissions of coal power plants.
Notes References External links Appendix C – General Tables of Units of Measurement in Specifications, Tolerances, and Other Technical Requirements for Weighing and Measuring Devices.
In addition, her cookbooks have received awards from the International Association of Culinary Professionals (IACP) and Les Dames d'Escoffie.
Another method of indirect grilling is to place a physical barrier such as a pizza stone between the fire and the food.
Early history Haute cuisine represents the cooking and eating of carefully prepared food from regular and premium ingredients, prepared by specialized chefs, and commissioned by those with the financial wherewithal to do so.
Any type of cooking may evaporate grease, oil and other material into the air, hence there may be less cleanup.
A Michelin-starred restaurant in Seoul serves nutty vanilla ice cream which has perilla oil as its "secret ingredient." Industrial Perilla oil made from untoasted seeds can be used for non-culinary purposes, including in paint, varnish, printing ink and linoleum.
In 2012, the very first all-in-one tap was introduced to the market, with both boiling and cold water coming from the same tap.
Canola is now a generic term for edible varieties of rapeseed oil in North America and Australasia; the change in name also serves to distinguish it from natural rapeseed oil, which has much higher erucic acid content.
Above each agungi is an upward opening where gamasot (big pot or cauldron used on agungi) can be set onto the buttumak.
The availability of foods or particular ingredients may determine the types of delicacies associated with different cultures.
The instruction on those cans read "Cut round the top near the outer edge with a chisel and hammer." The gap of decades between the invention of the can and can opener may be attributed to the functionality of existing tools versus the cost and effort of developing a new tool.
A tamis has a cylindrical edge, made of metal or wood, that supports a disc of fine metal, nylon, or horsehair mesh.
The bulb of garlic is smashed with the bottom of the container, and the cloves placed in the container and shaken to separate them from their skins.
Upon her return to Nigeria in 2011, she began researching familiar Nigerian ingredients and their uses from the perspective of culinary anthropology.
As an imperial fluid ounce is 96.076% of a US fluid ounce, this means that one imperial gallon, quart, pint, cup and gill are all equal to 1.20095 of their US counterparts.
They also supported the pastry crust so it did not sag in the middle and were occasionally known as "crustholders".
Reports of sesame allergy are growing in developed countries during the 21st century, with the allergic mechanism from oil exposure expressed as contact dermatitis, possibly resulting from hypersensitivity to lignin-like compounds.
In Oriya cuisine and Bengali cuisine, mixtures of whole spices called pancha phutaṇa or panch phoron, respectively, are used for this purpose.
Stainless steel is 25 times less thermally conductive than copper, and is sometimes critiqued for compromising the efficacy of the copper with which it is bonded.
External links Media related to Cheese sauce at Wikimedia Commons (Category page) Media related to Cheese sauce at Wikimedia Commons (General search)
In the past, recipes called for coddling fruit, but in recent times the term is usually only applied to coddled eggs.
The rod-like shape means that porridge can be stirred without congealing and forming lumps, unlike a spoon, which would have a dragging effect during stirring.
These interactions introduced many spices, the theory of the culinary cosmos, and cooking items such as North African pottery.
The traditional inverted funnels, with arches on the bottom for steam to enter, were followed by ceramic birds and then other designs.
The University of Illinois School of Architecture developed the work triangle to emphasize cost reduction by standardizing construction.
In making guiso, a wide variety of ingredients may be used relative to region, season, availability, and taste.
The exception is if the meat has been prepared in a sous-vide process or some other low-temperature cooking technique, as it will already be at temperature equilibrium.
There are a number of other more particular uses of the term, such as: The official supplier of food to the Royal Navy in the 18th and 19th century was the Victualling Board.
Several types of pancake machines exist that perform in various manners, for both commercial and home use.
Illipe butter is a vegetable fat from the nut (known as the "false illipe nut") of the Shorea stenoptera tree (now Rubroshorea stenoptera), sometimes used as a butter substitute.
A chinois (UK: SHIN-wah, SHEE-nwah, US: shee-NWAH; French: [ʃinwa] ), also known as a bouillon strainer, is a conical sieve with an extremely fine mesh.
This type of oven was also used and introduced to the Iberian Peninsula by the Moors, it was quickly adopted and carried to all Spanish-occupied lands.
While it is not necessary to be Japanese in order to be considered an itamae, non Japanese must prove themselves worthy of such a title.
Funnel-style steam vents have been placed in the center of fruit and meat pies during cooking since Victorian times; bird shapes came later.
A sub-recipe or subrecipe is a recipe for an ingredient that will be called for in the instructions for the main recipe.
A licensed victualler, a formal name for the landlord of a public house or similar licensed establishment.
to be measured with a suitable medicine measure." In the United States and pre-1824 England, the fluid ounce was ⁠1/128⁠ of a Queen Anne wine gallon (which was defined as exactly 231 cubic inches) thus making the dessert-spoon approximately 7.39 ml.
Steeling It is often recommended that steeling be performed immediately before or after using a knife and can be done daily.
Once set, the automatic tea kettle brings the water to the specific temperature for preparing a given kind of tea, adds the tea to the water, and steeps the tea for the appropriate amount of time.
History One of the first books written on Spanish cuisine, El Libro de los Guisados, written by Catalan chief Robert de Nola in 1525 CE, was based upon an older, Catalan book called Llibre de Coch, and lists various different recipes of the 15th century Mediterranean.
Although created in Italy, the espresso machine and steam wands were exported internationally to other countries, and frothed milk was introduced around the world.
The recipe from Larousse gastronomique filled the pastry with liquor-laced frangipane instead of custard.
The cookie dough is extruded onto the baking sheet in ornate shapes that would otherwise be too difficult or time-consuming to create by hand.
Philippines Tapayan in the Philippines are most commonly used for water storage, fermentation, and cooking.
A food chopper can also be used to peel garlic, by replacing the blades with a central device having a surface featuring large bumps.
Styrian oil – an export commodity of Austria and Slovenia – is made by pressing roasted, hull-less pumpkin seeds from a local variety of pumpkin, the Styrian oil pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo subsp.
Unit of volume The fluid dram (or fluid drachm in British spelling) is defined as 1⁄8 fluid ounce, and is equal to: 3.6966911953125 ml in the U.S.
Circa the later 2000s, the Campbell Soup Company began to modify its canned cheese sauce formulas based upon the company's perceived consumer preferences in various geographic regions in the United States.
Plastic bottles may become stuck due to a high volume of carbonation released during shipping or overtightening.
Monaghan is the editor of Lora Zarubin’s James Beard Award-winning cookbook I Am Almost Always Hungry, as well as James Beard Award- winning chef Jeremiah Tower’s Jeremiah Tower Cooks.
engine cooking Cooking food from the excess heat of an internal combustion engine, typically the engine of a car or a truck.
Larsen in Hatting registered his new soured milk product as ymer; the name was then used by other dairies that began making the product.
Because foods such as meats are typically measured for cooking temperature near the center of mass, stopping cooking at a given central temperature means that the outer layers of the food will be at higher temperature than that measured.
Solar Injera Stove A solar injera stove uses solar energy to achieve the required surface temperature of the injera baking pan or mitad.
It works well with limes and lemons, but larger citrus fruits (grapefruit in particular) require a larger device.
In 1955, the newly founded British company Russell Hobbs brought out its stainless steel K1 model as the first fully automatic kettle.
Actress Jamie Lee Curtis, who played a former showgirl turned bevertainer in the 2024 film The Last Showgirl directed by Gia Coppola, once recounted: On the first day in Vegas, Gia and I walked around the Rio hotel and casino.
Spanish rapeseed poisoning outbreak In 1981, there was an oil poisoning outbreak, later known as toxic oil syndrome that was attributed to people consuming what they thought was olive oil but turned out to be rapeseed oil that had been denatured with 2% aniline (phenylamine).
Commercial pancake machines are typically used in the commercial foodservice and hospitality industries.
The book was so popular it was expanded to 800 recipes, re-published in 1922, and subsequently reprinted eleven times.
Oil is a large kitchen supply cost for some restaurants, so obtaining cheaper oil can allow a marginal restaurant to reduce its overall expenses.
The reamer extracts juice using a convexly tapered conical mandrel, with troughs or ridges running the length of the mandrel.
The bowl of ingredients is handed to the chef who then adds the diner's choice of sauce and is transferred to a grill.
She writes for the Wall Street Journal Off Duty section as a feature food columnist and is the host of the Wall Street Journal Digital Network’s Cooking Confidential with Gail Monaghan.
In Spanish holiday resorts frequented by British tourists, 'pint' is often taken to mean a beer glass (especially a dimple mug).
NIST Handbook 44: Specifications, Tolerances, and Other Technical Requirements for Weighing and Measuring Devices.
Jelly beans and M&Ms are examples of products coated using soft and hard panning techniques respectively.
A pinch is a small, indefinite amount of a substance, typically a powder like salt, sugar, spice, or snuff.
The festival is held to celebrate Jollof rice, a dish that is ubiquitous in West Africa and the region's best known dish worldwide.
This process dislodges the seeds and some amount of pith, so the juice must generally be strained before use, although some tabletop reamers include an integrated strainer.
Custard is a variety of culinary preparations based on sweetened milk, cheese, or cream cooked with egg or egg yolk to thicken it, and sometimes also flour, corn starch, or gelatin.
The term evolved to refer to any slotted or pierced implement used for turning foods when frying them; modern versions are available in many materials such as stainless steel, nylon, and silicone and are typically undecorated and shaped as spatulas.
After adding the cream, the final product is blended and maintained above 35 °C to homogenize the mixture.
Plank cooking Plank cooking, also referred to as planking, is the technique of roasting or baking food, usually fish or meat, on wooden planks.
Some recipes circulated in the British Empire during the 18th century used cinnamon, red wine, and even bone marrow as seasonings for the pudding.
In this process, a liquid is typically boiled (or brought to another appropriate temperature) and poured over the herb.
She began a culinary blog, Kitchen Butterfly, and blogged about Nigerian food while she lived and worked in the Netherlands from 2007 to 2011.
Langston Hughes, American writer and poet, dubbed the "busser poet" by journalists in 1925 after he left three of his poems beside the plate of famed poet Vachel Lindsay at the hotel where he worked, who then read the poems at a large poetry reading later that evening.
The shelf life of radappertized foods correctly packaged will mainly depend on the service life of the packaging material and its barrier properties.
Just as with wine glasses, the flute is designed to be held by the stem to help prevent the heat from the hand from warming the liquid inside.
This is especially useful for small quantities of melted chocolate, since a very small hole can be cut and the bag can be discarded when it cools and becomes clogged.
Through her dishes, Ji-yeong gradually earns Lee Heon's trust and affection, awakening memories of warmth and comfort from his childhood and challenging his reputation as a cold and tyrannical ruler.
In the United Kingdom, a pinch is traditionally ⁠1/2⁠ UK salt spoon, the equivalence of ⁠1/4⁠ UK teaspoon.
Toleware was featured on a United States Postal Service 1979 15-cent stamp, and in 2002 as part of the American Design Make-up stamp series with a value of 5 cents.
Food to be grilled is cooked on a grill (an open wire grid such as a gridiron with a heat source above or below), using a cast iron/frying pan, or a grill pan (similar to a frying pan, but with raised ridges to mimic the wires of an open grill).
Cigars Pocket butane torches are commonly used as lighters for cigars, capitalizing on the intensity of the flame to light quickly and evenly the large, relatively damp, burning surface of a cigar.
The drink would then be served in a tall glass with a long-handled spoon, most commonly known as a "soda spoon", and drinking straws.
A fish slice is a kitchen utensil with a wide, flat blade with holes in it, used for lifting and turning food while cooking.
With expansion to other cities, Les Dames d'Escoffier International (LDEI) was formed in 1985 to operate as an umbrella organization.
The process is either done in a regular pan or pot filled with water, either on the stovetop or placed in the oven, or through the use of a special device such as an "egg coddler" (originally known as a pipkin).
Some Shabbat mode refrigerators include a timer for the compressor so that opening the door, which would normally indirectly cause the compressor to turn on as soon as the temperature rises, will have no immediate effect on the electrical operation of the appliance.
Tanzania remains the largest producer of sesame oil and also dominates the global consumption of this product.
Procedure Cognac, rum, or other flavorful liquors that are about 40% alcohol (80 USA proof) are considered ideal for flambé.
In various Asian cultures, burning incense at shrines and graves is a common practice to honor ancestors, deities, and the deceased.
Preservation Traditionally salt, sugar, vinegar, citric acid and beneficial fermentation were all used to preserve food pastes.
Benefits Beverage openers are useful for opening everyday beverage containers for those who have limited hand strength as it eliminates the need for strong twisting or pulling motions.
According to a brief news blurb in Reading Eagle from 1934, "bartender schools are mushrooming in the manor of Tom Thumb golf courses a while back".
Currently (2017), Tescoma operates in 130 countries around the world and has nine foreign branches (Italy, Spain, Portugal, Slovakia, Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Germany and China).
The larger pot has a wire handle, or bail, for suspending over a fire; the smaller has hinged handle.
During the reign of Edward II, the political power of the fishmongers waned, and Parliament decreed that no fishmonger could become mayor of the city.
As of the late seventeenth century, many offered a table d'hôte, a meal offered at a set price with no choice of dishes.
Initially organized by the Internationalen Verbandes der Köche (International Association of Chefs) in cooperation with other organizations, it became subject to Hitler's ban of all international societies during World War II.
Fresh The breads used to make soft or fresh breadcrumbs are not quite as dry, so the crumbs are larger and produce a softer coating, crust, or stuffing.
A citrus reamer, also known as a lemon reamer or simply a reamer, is a small kitchen utensil used to extract the juice from a lemon or other small citrus fruit.
This has two main purposes: droplets of hot oil can cause dangerous burns if they land on the skin, and, if they land elsewhere, can cause stains.
carryover cooking The phenomenon by which food retains heat and continues to cook even after being removed from the source of heat.
Perilla oil is also important in the manufacture of printing inks and linoleum, and in more ancient times was a critical component in creating durable earthen floors.
In rural parts of Tunisia, home cooks place a shallow earthenware dish over olive-wood coals, fill it, cover it with a flat earthenware pan, and then pile hot coals on top.
Hot salt frying Muri, or puffed rice, is also a common snack in the Indian subcontinent and is one of their oldest foods.
This method is discouraged by food safety experts due to the possibility of salmonella contamination.
A waffle iron or waffle maker is a kitchen utensil used to cook waffles between two hinged metal plates.
The company's health and safety regulations prohibited the immediate shut-off of Starbucks dipper wells in order to prevent the breeding of pathogens, but meanwhile continued work towards environmentally friendly washing alternatives.
Turkmen tamdyr The baking of a traditional, white bread called çörek in Turkmen is a medieval practice in Turkmenistan, using a clay tamdyr oven.
The spice trade was essential to the trade and development of certain food items and cuisines as well as to providing the connection of trade routes to other continents, specifically the New World.
Ice cream scoops and other food-preparation utensils can be placed under the continuous stream in order to remove allergens and protect against bacterial growth.
customary system 3.5516328125 ml in the British imperial system In the early 19th century, a teaspoonful had been considered equal to one fluid dram—60 minims—for medical prescriptions.
In recent decades, however, appliance manufacturers have instituted safety features that present a challenge to festival use.
It was designed for the municipal dwellings of the Bavarian Post Office and first presented at the Heim und Technik exhibition in Munich in 1928.
History In 1970, the Dutch physicist Henri Peteri came up with the idea of a water tap with an integrated water heater while working at Unilever.
The leaflet was promoted with the words "All recipes tested by Miss Una Carter, expert cooking demonstrator".
They are used to flavour soups and sausages, in the preparation of salad dressings, and directly as spreads.
A parabolic type solar injera baking stove was able to reach 200°C.The average surface temperature of an indirectly heated solar thermal injera stove was found to be 148°C when operated with atmospheric steam.
Moving companies use butcher paper to pack china, glass, and other fragile items for safe transport at low cost.
A two-thirds sheet pan (also referred to as a three quarter size sheet pan) is 21 in × 15 in (530 mm × 380 mm).
The scenes of restoring of the food truck was filmed in the storage yard of the Monte Collins Backhoe in Los Alamitos.
A popular story links the "rin" of shichirin to the Edo period currency denomination, the one-rin coin (albeit a different character, 厘).
At the 1913 Autumn Exhibition in Kristiania Karsten also exhibited another still painting, The red Kitchen, which has later (in 1926) been acquired by the National Gallery in Oslo.
Over 900,000 pressure cookers were recalled when it was discovered that the lid can detach when the device is pressurized.
Design A mandoline consists of two parallel working surfaces, one of which may be adjustable in height.
In 2003, the Kosher Law Enforcement Division of the New York Department of Agriculture and Markets issued fines to two Long Island butchers, Jeff and Brian Yarmeisch, because they had employed a Conservative mashgiach.
It is usually made of wood, with a flat surface for carrying the baked good and a handle extending from one side of that surface.
The curds are then drained and mixed with cream and salt, which is what gives cottage cheese slightly tangy taste and creamy texture.
See also 39 categories of activity prohibited on Shabbat Blech – a metal sheet used to cover a stovetop on Shabbat.
The Angels' Kitchen is a 1646 oil on canvas painting by Bartolomé Esteban Murillo, originally produced for a small Franciscan monastery in the artist's native Seville.
The Bill was passed in the Lok Sabha on 6 September 2013 and by the Rajya Sabha (upper house) on 19 February 2014.
Typically brightly decorated by transfer printing, often with outlines that were finished in overglaze enamels by hand.
How to Market a Restaurant, Your Complete Guide to Easy, Affordable and Effective Restaurant Marketing.
Though the Bocuse d'Or of France is frequently referred to as the culinary equivalent of the Olympic Games, it is biennial and not separated by an olympiad, i.e.
Waxed paper's particularly high dielectric strength makes it a practical electrical insulator, although modern materials have surpassed and mostly replaced it.
Canadian Cheddar cheese was also becoming popularized at this time and was likely also used during that era.
When cooking meats, the oven is fired to a "white hot" temperature (approximately 650 °F or 343 °C), the coals are moved to the back of the oven, and the meats are placed inside.
Media attention came from as far away as the Dutch press de Volkskrant, Huffington Post and NY Magazine.
See also Institute for Nonprofit News (member) Solutions journalism References External links Official website
Many of these features pertain more to making these miniatures seem attractive than they do to accurately depicting full-scale kitchens.
ARMY POCKET CAN OPENER" and "OPENER, CAN, HAND, FOLDING, TYPE I", commonly known as the P-38 is unknown.
The word "hibachi" is also (incorrectly) used in some parts of the United States to refer to Japanese steak houses or teppanyaki "iron hot plate" restaurants.
A China cap is used to remove seeds and other coarse matter from soft foods, but produces a coarser-textured product than the chinois.
Traiteur is an agent noun formed from the verb traiter ('treat'), which literally refers to the action of "treating" someone to something (for instance, a meal).
Its consistency can differ between recipes: some variations are thin and runny, while some others are viscous enough to pick up with a fork.
An example of this would be ovens which are programmed to remove power from their heating element when the door is opened – use of this oven would not be possible on the Sabbath without making modifications.
This style of decorative art spread from Europe to the United States in the 18th century, and was popular in US kitchens in the 18th and 19th centuries.
Melon ballers are utensils to make balls of melon from a scoop with a diameter from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters (about 3/8 inch to 1 inch).
Titanium dioxide is added to some brands of cottage cheese (Borden, Lucerne) to make it a brighter white.
Seasons summary Host and judges 1st season (2018) The first season was premiered on April 8 and last aired on June 24, 2018.
As of January 2012, over 150,000 Wonderbags were in use in South Africa, with the manufacturers and partners such as Unilever intending to promote the use of the device worldwide.
This is a list of custard desserts, containing prepared desserts that use custard as a primary ingredient.
Though the gallon has ceased to be a primary unit of trade, it can still be legally used in both the UK and Ireland as a supplementary unit.
Kamman suffered from Alzheimer's disease in her last years and died in Middlebury, Vermont, at the age of 87.
Namerō (Japanese: なめろう; derived from 舐める nameru, "to lick") is a type of tataki, a manner of preparing fish or meat finely minced and mixed with some spices and seasonings, not unlike a tartare.
Civil Eats is an independent, nonprofit digital news and commentary site about the American food system.
Abby Elliott as Natalie "Sugar" Berzatto, Carmy and Michael's sister, the reluctant co-owner and business manager of The Beef/The Bear.
The term funnel is also applied to other seemingly strange objects like a smoking pipe or a kitchen bin.
There are peels of many sizes, with the length of the handle suited to the depth of the oven, and the size of the carrying surface suited to the size of the food it is meant to carry (for instance, slightly larger than the diameter of a pizza).
Finally, the canola oil is refined using water precipitation and organic acid to remove gums and free fatty acids, filtering to remove color, and deodorizing using steam distillation.
A caboose (also camboose, coboose, cubboos derived from the Middle Dutch kombuis) is a small ship's kitchen, or galley, located on an open deck.
Escoffier "elevated the role of cooks from that of laborers to artists"; when he died, he "left the world a new art, that of dining".
Selina Carter was known in the community as an excellent cook and spent a significant amount of time teaching her daughters to cook.
The Academy also cooperates with Silliman University and offer courses which adds culinary management knowledge to Silliman University's Business Management Entrepreneur Program.
The recipe book of Apicius (roughly dated 4th century AD) describes a semolina porridge made from farina mixed with almonds, raisins and raisin wine.
"Up to 150 000 liters of water needed to put out a fire in an electric car ...Teslas may take up to 30,000-40,000 gallons of water, maybe even more, to extinguish the battery pack once it starts burning..." However, a typical larger fire truck carries only a few thousand liters of water.
Additionally, the mass–volume relationship of water (as with any fluid) depends on temperature, pressure, purity and isotopic uniformity.
This allows the user to scoop solids from the sides of the strainer as well as pressing liquid through the mesh.
Fourier drew the term from the Greek word Phalanx' (combat unit) and the Latin Monasterium ('monastic community'), and these very economic and living communities were to overcome the division of labor and the split between production and consumption, contrary to the capitalist economic system.
Toasted sesame oil is not suitable, but it can be used to stir fry meats and vegetables, for sautéing, and to make omelettes.
Since 2002, the number of jobs for nutritionists has reportedly grown faster in the National Health Service (NHS) than in any other sector.
In Jordan and Palestine, butter is often gently simmered with bulgur, which absorbs remaining milk residues, before being strained to produce samneh, also called samneh baladieh.
Poaching is a cooking technique that involves heating food submerged in a liquid, such as water, milk, stock or wine.
Nouvelle cuisine The 1960s were marked by the appearance of nouvelle cuisine, as chefs rebelled from Escoffier's "orthodoxy" and complexity.
Archaeological evidence from 300,000 years ago, in the form of ancient hearths, earth ovens, burnt animal bones, and flint, are found across Europe and the Middle East.
This relationship holds because the gram was originally defined as the mass of 1 mL of water; however, this definition was abandoned in 1799 because the density of water changes with temperature and, very slightly, with pressure.
Early life and career After some years owning and operating successful design businesses, she turned to food, earning a professional degree from The Institute of Culinary Education in 1991.
Other additives may be pectin to prepare jellies, ascorbic acid to improve shelf life and other ingredients that will dissolve and mix with the juice as it is extracted.
It is used in Britain and some other Commonwealth countries, and until 1976 was defined as the volume of water at 62 °F (16.7 °C) whose mass is 10 pounds (4.5359237 kg).
The meat to be cooked is salted and, if cooking a whole pig, some hot stones are placed inside the body cavity to ensure the meat is fully cooked.
In pharmaceutical Latin, the Apothecaries' dessert-spoon is known as cochleare medium, abbreviated as cochl.
Similar technology is employed to bake wafers, and several other snacks including kue gapit, a waffle-shaped but crunchy Indonesian snack which can be made with both sweet and savoury flavours.
However, even when approximated, its use was discouraged: "Inasmuch as spoons vary greatly in capacity, and from their form are unfit for use in the dosage of medicine, it is desirable...
It is mostly eaten for breakfasts or as a snack, but is also used as an alternative to yogurt, in desserts, dressings, and baking.
Release Bon Appetit, Your Majesty premiered on tvN on August 23, 2025, and aired every Saturday and Sunday at 21:10 (KST) through September 28.
What distinguished it was its effort to present these ideas in a more accessible, softened form—a "light version" of the functional work kitchen, intended to appeal to a wider audience.
These blankets are usually mounted in vertical quick-release containers so that they can be easily pulled out and wrapped round a person whose clothes are on fire.
In cookery, a cook's treat is a portion of the prepared ingredients not served as part of a dish, but which is nevertheless tasty and enjoyable and may be eaten by the cook.
The P-51, larger at 2 inches (51 mm), is included with United States military "Tray Rations" (canned bulk meals).
The term "kālua pork" has been used by Hawaiian cook Sam Choy to describe pork shoulder butt which is rubbed with sea salt, wrapped in ti leaves, and slowly cooked in an oven using liquid mesquite smoke rather than an imu.
The kitchen remained unchanged for over 500 years, between the Nara period in the 8th century until the Muromachi period (1336–1573).
As the Spanish entered the Americas and encountered chocolate, they developed the molinillo, a device that could be twirled between the hands, foaming chocolate in large containers made of pottery and likely wood.
A wire mesh is sharper and stronger than nylon, but it will rust if not dried carefully after each use.
The JCTD is responsible for basic and advance culinary training for the army, navy, Marine Corps and air force.
Breading contrasts with batter, which is a grain-based liquid coating for food that produces a smoother and finer texture, but which can be softer overall.
It can also be used as a condiment on fajitas, tacos, enchiladas, migas, quesadillas or any other Tex-Mex dish.
See also References External links Busy Cooks - About.com article Archived 2010-09-05 at the Wayback Machine https://chefslastdiet.com/2017/04/03/cooks-treats/
Carl insults Ramsey on Twitter, not realizing that his reply is public, and gains a large online following.
The 2012 event involved 54 nations with 1,600 participating chefs, with Sweden coming in first place, Norway placing second and Germany in third.
Methods used at high altitudes A pressure cooker is often used to compensate for the low atmospheric pressure at very high elevations.
Some kitchens had running water by having bamboo shafts connected to the water source extend into the kitchen; users of less well equipped kitchens fetched water from a common well.
This means that the current draw for an electric kettle is up to 13 A, which is a significant proportion of the current available for many homes: the main fuse of most homes varies between 20 and 100 amps.
A pie bird, pie vent, pie whistle, pie funnel, or pie chimney is a hollow ceramic device, originating in Europe, shaped like a funnel, chimney, or upstretched bird with open beak used for supporting or venting a pie.
Evliya Çelebi's 1665 travelogue, the Seyahatnâme, defined cacıχ (cacıg) as a kind of herb that is added to food.
Hot condiments – mustard, gherkins, capers, English sauces, such as Worcestershire sauce, ketchup, etc.
A colander or cullender is a kitchen utensil perforated with holes used to strain foods such as pasta or to rinse vegetables.
The word coddle evolved from the name of a warm drink, "caudle", and ultimately deriving from the Latin word for warm drink, calidium.
The pot was left on the fire all night, and next morning it was boiled again, but yet the potatoes were not cooked." Boiling point of pure water at elevated altitudes Based on standard sea-level atmospheric pressure (courtesy, NOAA): Source: NASA.
For fats, sesame oil is approximately equal in monounsaturated fat (oleic acid, 40% of total) and polyunsaturated fat (linoleic acid, 42% of total), together accounting for 80% of the total fat content (table).
Etymology It derives from French carafe, in turn from Arabic gharafa (Arabic: غَرَفَة, romanized: gharafa) or Persian qarraba, which is a big flagon for wine or other liquids.
The first vacuum-insulated boiler in the world was brought onto the market by Quooker in the year 2000.
Thus denatured alcohol is not subject to the taxes usually levied on the production and sale of alcoholic beverages.
A kitchen may have buttumak with multiple agungi holes and upward openings, or a single agungi hole and a single upward opening.
This includes not only classes in such topics as drinks mixology: the intricacies of mixing drinks and drink presentation, and the alcohol laws of the city and state, or province, in which the school is situated.
The degree of curvature can vary from a slight curvature along one edge of a rectangle, to a complex shape composed of changing radii to adapt better to bowls of different sizes.
The large collection of recipes De re coquinaria, conventionally titled Apicius, appeared in the 4th or 5th century and is the only complete surviving cookbook from the classical world.
It is a common tool in kitchens in the Netherlands and available in many kitchen stores and supermarkets — although this may vary by region.
Although the tool is sold in Norway and has even been described in some accounts as having originated there, it was introduced in the Netherlands around 1954 by a Dutch family-owned company Tijger Plastics NV founded in 1950 and nowadays operating as Coram NV.
In 1848, the oil was analyzed for the first time and a new type of saturated fatty acid was found and was given the name behenic acid.
Modern drum drying techniques results in dried ingredients which reconstitute immediately and retain much of their original flavor, color and nutritional value.
This method of cooking generates a more moderate temperature (about 275–350 °F or 135–177 °C) and allows for an easier introduction of wood smoke for flavoring.
Mesob (Amharic: መሶብcode: amh promoted to code: am ) or Harar mesob is a Harari basket used for storing injera, an Ethiopian and Eritrean flatbread.
Deep-frying under vacuum helps to significantly reduce acrylamide formation, but this process is not widely used in the food industry due to the high investment cost involved.
The Twintaps were introduced in 2010, and consist of a boiling water tap and mixer tap in the same design.
While working at DuPont, John Gilbert was asked to evaluate a newly developed material called Teflon.
The next layer of the set was a large canteen/cooking pot with a wire handle, then a smaller saucepan-type component with a folding metal handle.
After Rangi leaves, he takes on the role of Bearer to the concert party, as well as still being the Chai Wallah.
Activities Foragers typically seek out herbs, fruits, roots, and mushrooms from nature to create dishes to eat.
In Albania, tarator is likewise eaten as a cold summer dish made from yogurt, cucumber, garlic, and herbs, often with olive oil; the consistency may range from soup-like to dip-like depending on the yogurt used and the amount of added water.
In hospitals, intravenous tubing is used to deliver medication in drops of various sizes ranging from 10 drops/mL to 60 drops/mL.
The food is dipped in melted butter and then sprinkled with a mixture of herbs and spices, usually some combination of thyme, oregano, chili pepper, peppercorns, salt, garlic powder, and onion powder.
History The Italian Sommelier Association was founded in Milan on July 7, 1965, officially recognized and legally acknowledged by the Italian government on April 6, 1973, with formal President of the Republic decree #539 in 1973.
Milk in plastic containers mostly comes in multiples of 1 pint, but they are required to display the metric equivalent on packaging.
Generally there is no seating on the business premises; a few traiteurs may have very limited seating.
By then, arabbing was already in decline, threatened by the expansion of supermarkets and the disappearance of public stables.
Design The boxes were made of a clamshell design and commonly had a screen on either side affixed to a divider in the middle.
Both words "receipt" and "recipe" were originally used to mean instructions on how to administer medicine.
Terminology Some Indo-Aryan and Dravidian languages use a form inherited from the Sanskrit root vyághāra- "sprinkling over", as in baghār (बघार) in Hindi.
The soundtrack is a combination of Latin jazz, New Orleans jazz and blues, which serve as background to the storyline as it moves through Miami, New Orleans and Austin, respectively.
Sherry glass A sherry glass or schooner is drinkware generally used for serving aromatic alcoholic beverages, such as sherry, port, aperitifs, and liqueurs, and layered shooters.
The most commonly used technique is the teabag, which is made with filter paper and filled with various tea flavors.
It is made from skim milk, buttermilk and rennet, has a mild, slightly tart, slightly sweet taste, and is frequently mixed with cream, sugar and fruit and served as a dessert.
charbroiler A cooking device consisting of a series of grates or ribs that can be heated using a variety of means, and is used in both residential and commercial applications for a variety of cooking operations.
The Woodstock Fruit Festival is a nonprofit festival celebrating a fruit-based diet that is held in upstate New York, which has been running every August since 2011.
It is comparable to the Thai Khao khluk kapi which also uses shrimp paste, but with different cooking and ingredient preparations and methods.
However, English narratives from the 12th and 13th centuries suggest that hardworking hawkers could advance to positions as packmen and ultimately wealthy wholesalers or merchants.
A common cooking technique in villages is to wrap fish or other meat in a banana leaf, tie it off, and then place the banana leaf in the heated sand one side at a time.
The United States Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the occupation typically did not require related work experience or a high school diploma, that on-the-job training was short-term, and that the median income in 2024 for the position was US$32,670.
References External links Tescomaonline.com Tescoma.cz in Czech, Tescoma.it in Italian, Tescoma.co.uk in English, Tescoma.de in German, Tescoma.es in Spanish, Tescoma.pl in Polish,Tescoma.pt in Portuguese Tescoma.ru in Russian.
Meatloaf recipes in North America are typically made with a sauce or relish, often applied before cooking.
Design A basic slow cooker consists of a lidded round or oval cooking pot made of glazed ceramic or porcelain, surrounded by a housing, usually metal, containing an electric heating element.
In some regions, cubed bread is soaked in vinegar and blended with the other ingredients, which creates an emulsion somewhat similar to a vinaigrette.
The diameter of a melon baller's bowl varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters (about 3/8 inch to 1 inch), and it is typically made of stainless steel with a handle of wood, metal, or hard plastic.
British unit of mass The British Weights and Measures Act 1878 introduced verification and consequent stamping of apothecary weights, making them officially recognized units of measurement.
The word gama in modern Korean is usually used to refer to kilns, but the usage of the word meaning buttumak can be found in some compounds such as gamasot (literally gama cauldron) referring to the cauldron used on buttumak.
In the broad sense of the term, ganache is an emulsion between (melted) solid chocolate (which is made with cocoa butter, the fat phase) and a water-based ingredient, which can be cream, milk or fruit pulp.
In addition to horse mackerel, sashimi can be made from tuna, bonito, and alfonsino, depending on the location and restaurant.
Typically, the Cook's treat is not the reason someone chooses to cook, but it's related to the idea of perks and fringe benefits.
During the 19th and the earlier part of the 20th century, cane ware continued to be made in South Derbyshire and the Burton-on-Trent area as kitchen-ware and sanitary-ware.
The term was used to measure both liquid and weight (around a pound and a pint in 10th century Baghdad, but anywhere from 8 ounces to 8 pounds depending on the time period and region).
History The practice of operating a soda fountain in a drugstore reached its peak popularity in the 1940s but was popular from the 1920s through the 1950s.
Along with spices, it was popular to add cereal grains, bread or saltine crackers to the meatloaf to add bulk and stretch the meat.
Tapioca pearls originate from the harvesting of cassava, which required less labor to harvest and grew faster compared to sago.
A sink (also known as basin in the UK) is a bowl-shaped plumbing fixture for washing hands, dishwashing, and other purposes.
The title Rabshakeh (Isaiah 36:2), once thought to mean "chief of the cupbearers" is now given a different derivation and explained as "chief of the officers" or "princes".
Bake Off Argentina: El Gran Pastelero is an Argentine reality television broadcast by Telefe and produced by Turner International Argentina based on the British television baking competition The Great British Bake Off.
The ratl was a part of a sequence of measurements ranging from a grain of barley through the dirham (used as a common point of reference in both medieval European and Middle Eastern regions) on up to the Sa (Islamic measure).
publications, cauliflower cheese is sometimes described as the English version of macaroni and cheese, based on the notion that the latter is American.
The siru is an earthenware steaming vessel that dates back to the late bronze age of the Korean northern peninsula and the use of the utensil spread to the entire peninsula by the time of the Three Kingdoms in which the popularity of siru-tteok grew.
It is a reusable alternative to cooking in skins made of animal intestines and became popular in England in the seventeenth century for boiling a wide range of puddings.
Tapayan used exclusively for storing water are sometimes called banga or balanga, to distinguish them from other tapayan.
Within each standard, other commercial kitchen equipment, such as cooling racks, ovens, and shelving, is made to fit these standard pans.
This oil has properties similar to coconut oil and is increasingly being used as a substitute for coconut oil.
See also Ethnobotany Farm-to-table Food Not Lawns Herbal medicine List of forageable plants Rewilding (anarchism) == References ==
Vents in the back of agungi are opened on cold days to allow the smoke and hot air flow through the flues underneath ondol rooms and exit into the chimney at the other end of the house.
See also Bottle scraper Coconut scraper Dough blender Pastry blender Spatula References External links The dictionary definition of scraper at Wiktionary Media related to scrapers at Wikimedia Commons
1990 – Business and Industry and the Education divisions of Morrison were sold, leaving Morrison with approximately 300 healthcare accounts, which became Morrison Health Care.
Philippines In the Philippines, pork or chicken inihaw (similar in taste to yakitori), inasal, isaw, and satti are sold commonly as street food or in specialist restaurants.
A drip tray is placed below the food to prevent fat from the food igniting and generating a direct flame.
See also Griddle Springform pan Gastronorm sizes, European standardized cookware dimensions Parchment paper, sometimes used for lining sheet pans References External links The dictionary definition of sheet pan at Wiktionary Media related to Oven trays at Wikimedia Commons
Palestine Khabeesa (Arabic: خبيصة) is a traditional semolina pudding made using grape juice that is mixed with semolina flour and flavored with seeds, it is popular in the city of Hebron, in the West Bank.
If the induction coil is of lesser diameter than the cooking pot, and the pot has low thermal conductivity, use of high power can potentially warp the pot due to non-uniform heating.
Gallery See also List of almond dishes List of cooking techniques Meuniere sauce External sources Merriam-Webster definition Green Beans Amandine
If the room is too hot, the meat will spoil, and if it is too cold, the meat freezes and dry aging stops.
Julia Child is credited with re-introducing the wire whisk in her first ever televised appearance, in 1963.
The manufacturer claims this vegetable oil leaves food dry after frying (hence its name Crisp 'n Dry), compared to other vegetable oils which require the fried food to be dried with kitchen paper to absorb excess oil.
In cooking, pressure frying is a variation on pressure cooking where meat and cooking oil are brought to high temperatures while pressure is held high enough to cook the food more quickly.
It is widely depicted as a cultural symbol for Ethiopia, made from locally grown and partially dyed grass and palm leaves known for strength and durability.
While the original recipe calls for redfish (Red drum), the same method of preparation can be applied to other types of fish as well as proteins such as steak, chicken cutlets, or tofu.
Morse, recorded a number of the kitchens in urban and rural areas in the early Meiji period (1868–1912).
Cookie cutters can also be used for shaping, molding, forming and cutting numerous other types of foods, including meat patties, pancakes, sandwiches and decorative embellishments for platters (for example, fancy-cut fruit).
History In a certain form mesob was identified in Abyssinia as early as the sixteenth century as reported by Portuguese explorer Francisco Álvares; however, the most prominent mesob is of Harar origin.
Simmering generally uses a higher temperature for cooking, and because it surrounds the food in water that maintains a more or less constant temperature, simmering cooks food very evenly.
A fictional story on the origin of cheese was taken from Homer's Odyssey, in which the poet describes how the Cyclops, Polyphemus, made cheese by storing milk in animal stomachs.
Uses Sour cream is commonly used as a condiment on foods, or combined with other ingredients to form a dipping sauce.
They are also often used to cook while unattended, meaning the cook can fill the pot with its ingredients and come back several hours later to a ready meal.
When not serving customers, bevertainers would dance in 90-second performances on one of five stages located across the casino floor.
A food steamer or steam cooker is a small kitchen appliance used to cook or prepare various foods with steam heat by means of holding the food in a closed vessel reducing steam escape.
confit A generic term for various kinds of food that have been cooked in grease, oil, or sugar water (syrup).
They became heirlooms and symbols of wealth and status among various indigenous cultures in the islands of Southeast Asia.
Caribbean In the English-speaking Caribbean, hawkers are commonly referred to as hagglers or informal commercial importers.
Karsten's painting Atelierinteriør (English: Studio interior) from 1926 (lost in a fire during World War II) had The blue Kitchen hanging on the painted wall.
Made from precious metals and porcelain, they resembled a coffee pot with a hole in the top where a molinillo or swizzle stick (molinet) could be inserted and used to froth the drink.
Many restaurants serve chile con queso with such added ingredients as pico de gallo, black beans, guacamole, and ground beef or pork.
North and South America Argentina and Uruguay In Argentina and Uruguay, both asado (beef roasted on a fire) and steak a la parrilla (beefsteak cooked on traditional grill) are staple dishes and even hailed as national specialties.
In the drum-drying process, pureed raw ingredients are dried at relatively low temperatures over rotating, high-capacity drums that produce sheets of drum-dried product.
Usage While one extremity of the pothook is hooked to the handle of the pot, the other is caught upon an iron crane moving on a pivot over the fire.
A delicacy is a rare food item that is considered highly desirable, sophisticated, or peculiarly distinctive within a given culture or region.
For instance, seafood could be considered a luxury in an area that lacks fish, whereas it would not be seen as such in an area near the ocean or a great river.
Due to the appliance's design, the pepper is evenly roasted across all its surface, leaving a blackened skin which is then easily removed.
In the US, residential dishwashers can be certified to a NSF International testing protocol which confirms the cleaning and sanitation performance of the unit.
Since 2005 they have also been used for sous-vide food cooking, a method that uses airtight plastic bags in a water bath at accurately regulated temperatures much lower than usually used for cooking.
In 2009, Máirtín Mac Con Iomaire became the first Irish chef to earn a PhD at the School, with a dissertation entitled 'The Emergence, Development and Influence of French Haute Cuisine on Public Dining in Dublin Restaurants 1900–2000: An Oral History'.
In 1913 Karsten was newly married, and the couple moved from Copenhagen to the Norwegian island Hvasser.
One school offered a "three weeks course in rudimental drink mixing, fashioning the multiple concoctions of pre-prohibition.” Classes consisted of one and a half hour periods, five days a week.
The frieze depicts priests engaged in the production of cow dairy and perhaps creating curd mixture somewhat similar to cottage cheese.
Lever General-purpose can openers first appeared in the 1850s and had a primitive claw-shaped or "lever-type" design.
A draft opening in the lower side of the unit provides air to the fuel, as well as a controllable vent in the top of the dome lid for air to exit the cooker.
Some varieties have the handle in the middle and a different-sized bowl on each end, and the bowl typically has a small hole in the middle to allow air and juice through.
The Swedish army also distributed a similar variant of this opener, officially designated M7481-021000 Konservbrytare Mini, with field rations.
Definition The dutch cask is defined as 112 pounds (51 kg), (i.e., equivalent to one long hundredweight or eight stone).
Many fancy red mortaria had a small hole near the top to allow the discharge of liquids, which was artistically made to appear as the mouth of a lion, mouse, or bat.
During World War II, factory jobs opened to white laborers, leaving arabbing an almost entirely African-American vocation.
The opener was made of cast iron and had a very similar construction to the Yeates opener, but featured a more artistic shape and was the first move towards improving the look of the can opener.
An arabber (or a-rabber) is a street vendor (hawker) selling fruits and vegetables from a colorful, horse-drawn cart.
As published by the Italian physician Amalia Moretti under the pseudonym Petronilla, cauliflower cheese may also be known in Italian as cavoifore alia besciamella.
The ratio of linoleic acid (an omega-6 fatty acid) to alpha-linolenic acid (an omega-3 fatty acid) is 2:1 (table).
The bread should be sliced "moderately thin", placed on a toasting fork, and held near the fire until it was warmed through.
A long running advertising campaign for Crisp 'n Dry stated no matter what day of the week, it can turn any day into a fry day.
Fishmongers can be wholesalers or retailers, and are trained at selecting and purchasing, handling, gutting, boning, filleting, displaying, merchandising and selling their product.
ISBN 978-1480289093.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Foxwell, Amy (2011).
This preparation involves smearing the inside of the pan with whole butter and adding aromatics to the pan.
The bacterial culture, which is introduced either deliberately or naturally, sours and thickens the cream.
One litre of water has a mass of almost exactly one kilogram when measured at its maximal density, which occurs at 3.984 °C.
The same can be said for commercial glass washers, as they are based on standard glasses, normally pint glasses.
Zeng Jing of the Guangdong Armed Police Hospital said of gutter oil, "Animal and vegetable fat in refined waste oil will undergo rancidity, oxidation and decomposition after contamination.
Strained yogurt, Greek or Greek-style yogurt, yogurt cheese, sack yogurt, kerned yogurt or labneh is yogurt that has been strained to remove most of its whey, resulting in a thicker consistency than normal unstrained yogurt, while still preserving the distinctive sour taste of yogurt.
A gas or electric grill would be the best choices for what is known as "barbecue-braising" or "grill-braising", or combining grilling directly on the surface and braising in a pot.
Afterwards, the butter is then strained until one is left with a clear batch of melted butter (smen).
Nutmeg graters are a bartenders' tool, used for adding freshly grated nutmeg to hot toddies, eggnogs, and other drinks.
Mess tins are generally rectangular with rounded off edges – the rounded edges are easier to clean inside than a sharp corner.
Factory production of the main ingredients made the dish affordable, and recipes made it accessible, but not notably popular.
The magazine is endorsed by the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Parents' Choice Foundation, and The White House's "Let's Move" campaign.
Bratt pans are typically found in commercial establishments where mass catering is required such as restaurants, canteens, hospitals and schools.
A victualler (pronounced /ˈvɪt(ə)lə/) is traditionally a person who supplies food, beverages and other provisions for the crew of a vessel at sea.
Alternative term usage Since the 1920s, the term "honey dipper" has been used as a euphemism for the workers who empty septic tanks, clean latrines, and do similar work.
The difference between chloroplast and extrachloroplastic starch degradation is in the amylase pathway they prefer; either beta or alpha amylase.
Only as a final step should the fork be brought nearer to the fire and turned light brown or deep golden yellow, before being buttered.
The International Exhibition of Culinary Art (in German: Internationale Kochkunst Ausstellung or IKA), termed the Culinary Olympics, is a quadrennial chef competition, and the biggest culinary exhibition in the world.
There are models of tube cooking system in India which has energy storage devices installed at the bottom of the tube to store heat for cooking or heating food during night.
Each dish is stirred in its turn, as the operator walks around the outside of the grill and turns each individual's food in succession.
Ben oil is pressed from the seeds of the Moringa oleifera, known variously as the horseradish tree, ben oil tree, or drumstick tree.
This tradition of additions still lives on, but with new goals: primarily, producing a lower-fat dish with superior binding and consistency.
Depending on the fish and on the region, other green herbs may be employed as well, including spinach, fresh savory, watercress, or tarragon.
Not only were professional chefs responsible for building and shaping haute cuisine, but their role in the cuisine was what differentiated it from regular French cuisine.
In the 18th century, toasting forks often had three staggered prongs, to hold the bread more firmly.
History According to the fourteenth-century household book, Le Ménagier de Paris, which does not include a recipe for the dessert, darioles were served at weddings.
History A significant reason for tapioca pudding's popularity was the ease of acquiring tapioca balls compared to its alternative, sago.
Horno ( OR-noh; Spanish: [ˈoɾno]) is a mud adobe-built outdoor oven used by the Native Americans and the early settlers of North America.
South Africa In South Africa, nutritionists must be registered with the Health Professions Council of South Africa.
Morrison obtained contracts to cater for Loyola University New Orleans, Mound Park Hospital in Florida, and Candler General Hospital in Georgia.
Between 1 mm and 2.5 mm wall thickness is considered utility (fort) grade, with thicknesses below 1.5 mm often requiring tube beading or edge rolling for reinforcement.
Alfredo's noodles have been extolled in US newspapers, magazines, cookbooks, and guidebooks since as early as the 1920s.
A woman known as the "Bunny Mother" took responsibility for the welfare of the women working as Playboy Bunnies.
It is a pancake-like snack made from flour, sugar, and fuling (Poria), rolled around nuts, honey, and other ingredients.
Solid bags Prepared foods can be securely packed into plastic bags, frozen, and often packed into paperboard folding cartons.
Materials Many types of center may be used, but they must be strong enough to not break during the tumbling.
Means of compensation include extending cooking times or using a pressure cooker to provide higher pressure inside the cooking vessel and hence higher temperatures.
It was found that some establishments, however, left dipper wells running even while the business was closed.
They are also used to make jellies and cook vegetables in the tradition of a normal steamer or blanching for freezer storage.
A US gallon contains 3.785411784 kg (8.3454 lb) of water at 3.983 °C (39.169 °F), making it 83.26742% of an imperial gallon.
A cocktail skewer or cocktail stick is a short cylindrical stick, made of wood or sometimes metal, that has a somewhat sharp point on one or both ends.
See also List of dips List of hors d'oeuvre Tex-Mex cuisine Chili powder – food spice made from chili peppers References External links On the Origins of Chile con Queso by John Nova Lomax
Useful in all smoking applications and with any kind of animal protein, it is best used with fish where the flesh of a fish such as salmon forms a pellicle that will attract more smoke to adhere to it than would be the case if it had not been used.
The site works with more than 150 contributors and covers the United States’ food system, including food policy, sustainable agriculture and food justice.
However, proteolytic bacteria are able to dissolve or break down the connective tissue and fibers of the meat and enter the inside.
Second-generation cookers are somewhat safer, but can still be dangerous if proper precautions, like obeying fill limits, are not taken.
A layer of ti leaves (Cordyline fruticosa) is then spread over the layer of pounded vegetation and the food to be cooked placed on top.
According to Sokoh, she created her first recipe in 1998 while living and going to school in the UK.
When the twirling motion is stopped, the honey will collect on the lower parts of the tool and drip off, thus dispensing the honey.
Some inexpensive sets are of disposable plastic film with a drop-in ring and screw-on plastic tips (see image above).
In more recent Playboy Clubs, such as Sin City that was re-opened in 2006, Playboy bunnies wore slightly altered costumes that were based on the original bunny suit.
The System Kitchen had a water sink, a cutting board, two or more gas stoves (not included), and cabinets for storage.
See also Modernist Cuisine Conceptual art Deconstructivism (architecture) Surrealism Reconstructivism == References ==
Some advantages of drum drying include the ability to dry viscous foods which cannot be easily dried with other methods.
Lehra Fuel Tech Pvt Ltd is approved by Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA), is one of the largest briquetting machine manufacturers from Ludhiana, India.
Hot sand frying Hot sand frying is a common cooking technique for street-side food vendors in China and India to cook chestnuts and peanuts.
Professional chefs often forage or purchase from foragers in order to add these foods to restaurant menus.
Nearly all the time at work is spent standing or walking, often while carrying drinks (considered light or sometimes medium lifting).
Additionally, the scraper is also used by pastry chefs to give sharp and smooth edges to the cakes while decorating them.
At one time a small kitchen was called a caboose if aboard a merchantman (or in Canada, on a timber raft), but a galley aboard a warship.
⁠1/2⁠ UK salt spoon is an amount of space that can accommodate 15 British imperial minims (⁠1/4⁠ British imperial fluid drachm or ⁠1/32⁠ British imperial fluid ounce; about 14·41 US customary minims (0·24 US customary fluid dram or 0·03 US customary fluid ounce) or 0·89 millilitres) of liquid.
The primary tasks in a home kitchen are carried out between the cook top, the sink and the refrigerator.
This scene serves as a prelude for the famous song "Pyar Hua Ikrar Hua", during which the chaiwala is shown sipping the tea from a saucer.
Kang Han-na as Kang Mok-ju A cruel and scheming woman who has gained Lee Heon's approval and become a long-term concubine.
Being a reactive material, cast iron can have chemical reactions with high acid foods such as wine or tomatoes.
By continent Africa Bambara groundnut – a traditional food crop in Africa Europe Traditional food products have been described as playing "an important part of European culture, identity, and heritage".
In April 2019 Instant Pot merged with Corelle Brands, owned by a private equity firm Cornell Capital, which owns kitchen brands such as Pyrex, Corelle, Corningware and SnapWare, for an undisclosed amount of money.
The dispute eventually resulted in cooperation and Tescoma even sold their goods in Tesco shopping centers.
In the Post-exilic period, Nehemiah rose to the high ranking palace position of cupbearer to King Artaxerxes, the sixth King of the Median / Persian Empire.
Location At their headquarters and manufacturing plant in Saint Louis Park, the Nordic Ware branding is painted on the Peavey–Haglin Experimental Concrete Grain Elevator near the interchange of Minnesota State Highway 100 and Minnesota State Highway 7.
Originally a dish made from cheap cuts of meat favored by farmers and laborers, popular versions of the dish such as "smothered steak" and "smothered pork roast" are served throughout Acadiana at local "plate lunch houses".
P pan frying Characterized by the use of minimal cooking oil or fat (as opposed to shallow frying or deep frying), typically using just enough oil to lubricate the pan.
They often have integral lighters or (in older models) pilot lights, and may have safety interlocks designed to reduce the risk of hazardous gas leaks.
Other blades perpendicular to the main blade are often mounted so that the slice is cut into strips.
Through the 1900s, crumpets browned over an open fire using a toasting fork then drenched in butter were considered a midwinter delicacy in England.
2 creatives and 1 technical Episode 8: Chocolate No enumeration in technical challenge Episode 9: Semifinal Episode 10: 3rd place definition Episode 11: Final 2nd season (2020) The second season was premiered March 1 and last aired July 5, 2020.
See also Cooking weights and measures Teaspoon Tablespoon Sources External links Silver place settings, from Butler's Guild
Alexandria During the same era, Alexandria in Egypt had become the predominant center for the production of perfumes.
Species that are “smooth shelled macadamia” are called Macadamia integrifolia and “rough shelled macadamia” are called Macadamia tetraphylla.
Yemen In Yemen, the local custom was to take fresh butter and to add thereto hot water while the milk or whey was still mixed with the butter.
When finished, the dough scraper can be used to scrape up the little bits of dough that have dried onto the kneading surface during the forming process.
It was founded in 1946 by Henry David Dalquist (25 May 1918 – 2 January 2005), who trademarked the name Bundt in 1950, his wife Dorothy, his brother Mark, and their friend Donald Nygren.
When starch is added, the result is called 'pastry cream' (French: crème pâtissière, pronounced [kʁɛm pɑtisjɛːʁ]) or confectioners' custard, made with a combination of milk or cream, egg yolks, fine sugar, flour or some other starch, and usually a flavoring such as vanilla, chocolate, or lemon.
In 1992, she established her own gourmet baking business, selling to several New York City eateries including Dean & DeLuca, Felissimo and Petrossian.
Jugged hare Jugged hare (a similar stew is known as civet de lièvre in France), a common dish involving jugging, is a whole hare, cut into pieces, marinated and cooked with red wine and juniper berries in a tall jug that stands in a pan of water.
The editorial team includes Matthew Wheeland, Margo True, Christina Cooke, Tilde Herrera, and Lisa Held.
For more demanding applications, the filter paper in the latter two may be replaced with a sintered glass frit.
With the growing demand for international kitchen and management skills, he saw the markets potential and opportunities.
History Conceived by a group of German chefs in 1896 with an aim to promote German cuisine to the world while receiving impulses from other cooking cultures, the first competition was arranged in 1900 in Frankfurt with four nations participating.
The word originated in the 18th century edition of the Diccionario de autoridades as: "A dish that is composed and seasoned with broth, spices and other things that are roasted or fried." Today, someone who makes guiso would be called a guisandero.
Capacity measure As a supplemental unit of apothecary measure and as a culinary measurement unit, the wine glass (also known as wineglass, wineglassful (pl.
Hazards Scalding Slow cookers are less dangerous than ovens or stove tops due to their lower operating temperatures and closed lids.
To order a carafe d'eau ("carafe of water") is to request to be served free tap water rather than bottled water at a cost.
While nominally half the size—and typically sharing one dimension—quarter sheets will not necessarily nest inside a half sheet side by side (whether for storage or other purposes).
The wakiita also learns proper ways to interact and treat restaurant's customers by observing senior itamae.
In South Asia, a similar dish is made with yogurt, cucumber, salt and ground cumin (sometimes also including onions) called "raita".
However, copper, glass, non-magnetic stainless steels, and aluminum vessels can be used if placed on a ferromagnetic disk that functions as a conventional hotplate.
Etymology The English word mortar derives from classical Latin mortarium, possibly with some influence from the French mortier.
Two other potential concerns are the risk of getting injured from the use of sharp objects, or from touching hot surfaces.
Chile con queso is probably a derivative of queso flameado from the northern Mexican state of Chihuahua.
Designed for convenience, the hexamine stove folds into a compact size for easy storage and transport.
Early 2010 the DACA curriculum was approved and the Dumaguete Academy for Culinary Arts started the first Batch for the Culinary Arts Diploma on May 3, 2010.
Design The Wonderbag consists of an inner layer of insulation containing recycled polystyrene balls, with an outer, drawstring covering of polyester-cotton blend textiles.
In June 2025, Vulture published an article, claiming that "an undercurrent of industry resentment" over the show's lack of comedic content led to its 2024 Comedy Series Emmy loss.
Bratt pan is a heavy-duty industrial cooking appliance that can perform multiple functions: boiling, steaming, stewing, simmering, roasting, poaching, braising, shallow frying and deep frying.
Acid seasonings – plain vinegar (sodium acetate), or same aromatized with tarragon; verjuice, lemon and orange juices.
Often associated with Cajun cuisine, this technique was invented and popularized by chef Paul Prudhomme.
In September 2009, ACES was renamed the Joint Culinary Center of Excellence (JCCoE) and in 2025 it was further redesignated as the Joint Culinary Training Department (JCTD) under the JCCoE umbrella.
The juice is collected in the middle section and let out with a small hose while still hot and sterile directly into clean bottles for long term unrefrigerated storage.
Dishes of this sort are usually cooked with butter and seasonings, then sprinkled with whole (or flaked) toasted almonds.
The poultry holder consists of an aluminum or stainless steel disk with a metal rod formed into a loop with the ends affixed to the center of the disk.
The process is most notable for its use in the preparation of fried chicken in many commercial fried chicken restaurants.
To hide the strong, bitter taste of pills, Abu Bakr al-Razi coated them with slime from psyllium seeds in the 10th century.
Description Fruits Macadamia integrifolia is an Australian tree with holly-like leaves that grows well in a moist, organic soil and can withstand temperatures as low as −4.4 °C (24 °F).
Mesob baskets are used in funeral ceremonies to support the family of the deceased person and the baskets are widely viewed as a symbolical representation of Ethiopian and Eritrean culture and their cuisine.
Carafes are also used to serve coffee; these carafes come in glass or thermal variants used for certain purposes, such as storing larger amounts of coffee without affecting the flavour or keeping the coffee warm for extended periods.
During this process, the package works like a small pressure cooker, allowing oxygen and some steam to escape through the small hole in the film.
History The first recorded use of essential oils was in the 10th or 11th century by the Persian polymath Avicenna, possibly in The Canon of Medicine.
As meat cooks, the iron atom loses an electron, moving to a +3 oxidation state and coordinating with a water molecule (H2O), which causes the meat to turn brown.
Often the side walls flare out from the back at wide angles, creating a trapezoid floorplan and presenting a more dramatic display of the contents.
They were hard-bargainers though, and all the fishermen of the Firth of Forth brought their catches to Newhaven for the fishwives to sell in Edinburgh.
Process Frothing milk involves a process that introduces air into the chemical properties of milk to create the light and airy product of frothed or foamed milk.
History Biscuit warmers were first manufactured in Victorian England, first in Sheffield Plate and later in electroplate.
The fluid helps with lubrication of the cutting process and with cooling to avoid cracking or damaging the cutting tool or the workpiece.
Requirements for eligibility for registration include a recognized bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution.
Sokuri (Korean: 소쿠리, pronounced [so.kʰu.ɾi]) is a round, rimmed woven basket made of finely-split bamboo.
For this reason, stainless steel or glass are useful in transferring diesel fuel, while plastic funnels are useful in the kitchen.
Some Indo-Aryan languages use a form inherited from the Sanskrit root traṭatkāra- "crackles, splits, fizzes", as in taṛkā (तड़का) in Hindi or tuṛkā (तुड़का) in Garhwali.
The Cook's Oracle: Containing Receipts for Plain Cookery, on the Most Economical Plan for Private Families.
However, those standardized measures varied both by region and by purpose: the spice-measuring ratl, the flax-measuring ratl, the oil-measuring ratl, and the quicksilver-measuring ratl all differed from each other.
1988 – Morrison had around 700 accounts in the Business and Industry, Education, and Healthcare fields.
While the profession has historically been very male dominated, an increasing number of women are becoming mashgichot.
Several Tescoma products have a worldwide patent, and many have won design awards, such as the Red Dot Design Award, the Good Design Award and the German Design Award.
Once steam and oxygen have left the package during cooking, the valve is applied, creating a natural vacuum.
Status Differences Status is another factor that played into the available diet and is reflected in the different diets between the peasants and the upper class.
L'école des trois gourmandes (The School of the Three Hearty Eaters) was a cooking school founded in Paris]] during the 1950s by Simone Beck, Louisette Bertholle and Julia Child.
Butcher paper is also used in the process of collecting a rape kit: the victim disrobes while standing on a large sheet of butcher paper, which collects any trace evidence that may fall from the victim's body or clothes.
Instruments that indicate total polar compounds, currently the best single gauge of how deep-fried an object is, are available with sufficient accuracy for restaurant and industry use.
The siru is not an everyday utensil but is one for preparing and serving the sacrificial dishes during rituals.
Tapáyan or tempayan (also known as balanga, belanga, or bangâ) are large wide-mouthed earthenware or stoneware jars found in various Austronesian cultures in island Southeast Asia.
The school offered classes several times a week and for a variety of ability levels, including Saturday morning classes for children.
In spinach leaves, the extrachloroplastic region contains the highest level of amylase degradation of starch.
Yemenis prepare a special version of semneh (سمنة) which is smoked with aromatic herbs inside of a gourd in order to impart deeper flavour and aid in preservation.
Étouffée can be made using different shellfish, the most popular version of the dish being crawfish étouffée, although shrimp is also used.
Commercial uses of amaranth oil include foods, cosmetics, shampoos, and intermediates for manufacture of lubricants, pharmaceuticals, rubber chemicals, aromatics, and surface active agents.
In Maranhão, the women who produce babassu oil are known as quebradeiras de coco do babaçu, '(babassu coconut breakers)' and have been studied by academics for their role in conserving biodiversity.
Typically an egg is poached just to the point where the white is no longer runny, and the yolk is beginning to harden around the edges.
In second generation pressure cookers, either a relief valve subsequently opens, releasing steam to prevent the pressure from rising any further or a rod rises with markers to indicate the pressure level, without constantly venting steam.
Aversive agents—primarily bitterants and pungent agents—are often used to produce an unpleasant flavor.
This ability to make starch disappears in the dark due to the lack of illumination; there is insufficient amount of light produced during the dark needed to carry this reaction forward.
Leslie used rubber bands to attach processed cheese produced by Kraft Foods to boxes of pasta in an attempt to increase pasta sales.
Some openers have extra conveniences built in such as magnetic backing to catch and hold metal caps or stick to a refrigerator door.
Types Bowl- or cone-shaped – the usual colander Mated colander pot – a colander inside a cooking pot, allowing the food to drain as it is lifted out See also Chinois Zaru References External links Colander vs Strainer
Some food pastes are considered to be condiments and are used directly, while others are made into sauces, which are more liquidy than paste.
Hexamine is an efficient and stable fuel, making it ideal for portable stoves due to its high energy density and ease of ignition.
A sheet pan, also referred to as baking tray, baking sheet, or baking pan, is a flat, rectangular metal pan placed in an oven and used for baking pastries such as bread rolls, cookies, sheet cakes, Swiss rolls, and pizzas.
History In the first decade of the 19th century, the minim, the smallest unit of Apothecary Measure, was promoted by the pharmaceutical and medical establishments as an alternative to the drop.
Gallery References and notes This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
Spatula is a diminutive of Latin spatha, a broad, flat tool or weapon, which in turn is from Ancient Greek σπαθη ("spathe"), the broad, flat tool used in weaving, or a paddle.
There are classic recipes that can fall into oblivion and disappear forever, but if they are consumed massively, they become part of the typical cuisine of a place.
Taurins had suggested a costume modeled after the Playboy Magazine trademark, either a rabbit or bunny, and she had her seamstress mother make a costume prototype.
In the UK, cauliflower cheese is often eaten as a side dish, particularly with roast dinners, and at times as a main to accommodate vegetarian diets.
One hierarchical system for organizing a restaurant's kitchen staff is the brigade de cuisine system developed by Auguste Escoffier (1846–1935).
It's been a long time since I'd had fettuccine Alfredo"; In 1981, the travel writer Paul Hoffman called the Roman versions "one of the most tempting and at the same time simplest pasta specialties".
Rusun jars Rusun jars (Japanese: 呂宋壺, Hepburn: Rusun tsubo), also known as "Luzon jars", were dark-brown to purple-black tapayan from the island of Luzon in the northern Philippines.
One recent example is fusion cuisine, which combines elements of various culinary traditions while not being categorized per any one cuisine style, and generally refers to the innovations in many contemporary restaurant cuisines since the 1970s.
Crisp 'n Dry was previously marketed by Spry (Lever Brothers), then Unilever, before being acquired by Princes Group.
The sujeo set includes a pair of metal (often stainless steel) chopsticks with an oval or rounded-rectangular cross-section, and a long handled shallow spoon of the same material.
The stopper is removed by pushing the prongs between the cork and the neck of the bottle, and twisting the stopper out of the bottle.
He also sings the musical interruptions between the scenes, which are mostly American hit songs, accompanied by a sitar.
The pressure cooker needs to cool briefly before adding liquid; otherwise some of the liquid will evaporate instantly, possibly leaving insufficient liquid for the entire pressure cooking time; if deglazing the pan, more liquid may need to be added.
The first patent for a rotating wheel design was secured in July 1870 by William Lyman of Meriden, Connecticut, US and produced by the firm Baumgarten in the 1890s.
It is considered a delicacy in Austria and Slovenia, and a few drops are added to pumpkin soup and other local dishes.
Because of the many historical definitions of a gallon, there have been many definitions of the pint.
History The fish slice was originally an item of silver service used for serving fish at a dining table and was generally made of silver or Sheffield plate rather than copper or tinned iron to avoid the possibility of affecting the taste of the fish.
It includes the knives, frying pans, bakeware and kitchen utensils required for cooking and for making desserts, pastries and confectionery.
The utensil is sometimes made of plastic, stainless steel, silver-plated brass, silicone, ceramic, or glass.
A number of homes and other buildings have been destroyed due to the unsafe use of a turkey fryer and Underwriters Laboratories has refused to list turkey fryers.
In some countries, modern supermarkets are replacing fishmongers who operate in shops or fish markets.
The oil appears green in thin layers and red in thick layers, an optical phenomenon called dichromatism.
The most popular product sold as boil-in-bag is rice, but other cereals like pearl barley or pseudocereals like buckwheat are also available.
Other designs exist, such as the cone-shaped silicone Frywall, which allows for stirring and flipping while the food cooks.
Butcher paper is a type of water resistant kraft paper traditionally used by butchers and fishmongers to wrap meat and fish.
Mashgichim must ensure that every food product that arrives at the facility has a reliable hekhsher (certification) before it is used.
In the US, coffee drinking shifted from the use of brewed coffee, which was beginning to decline, to specialty coffees.
In the US, the most common criteria for "Belgian waffles" are their thickness and pocket size, although they are also distinguished by using a base that typically includes yeasted batter and pearl sugar.
Waxed paper (also wax paper, waxpaper, or paraffin paper) is paper that has been made moisture-proof and grease-proof through the application of wax.
History The design of the corkscrew may have been derived from the gun worm, which was a device from at least the early 1630s used by men to remove unspent charges from a musket's barrel in a similar fashion.
A tamis should be used with the inner hoop uppermost, first because it holds more, and second so that the bowl below will rest on the hoop rather than the mesh.
A whisk is a cooking utensil which can be used to blend ingredients smooth or to incorporate air into a mixture, in a process known as whisking or whipping.
Both plates have gridded indentations to shape the waffle from the batter or dough placed between them.
With food companies, this type of chef often has the responsibility of creating new pre-prepared meals and food products.
Pellicle formation on meat and seafood Before cured foods are cold smoked, they can be allowed to air-dry to form a tacky outer layer, known as a pellicle.
After several years of training, an apprentice may be promoted to the position of "wakiita," which translates to "near the cutting board." The wakiita's duties include daily preparation of the fresh ingredients, such as preparing blocks of fish, grating ginger, and slicing scallions.
For flat surfaced grills, their design can vary from similar to a putty knife, to a more complex device with provision to protect the hands from the hot grill surface, targeted to professional cooks and chefs, to even more complex models.
In the case of some chocolate mousses, egg yolks are often stirred into melted chocolate to give the final product a richer mouthfeel.
Ming China During the Ming dynasty (1368–1644), the profession of cook was one that served, on the most part, the upper echelons of society, serving the likes of merchants, officials and landlords.
Packaged macaroni and cheese are now available in frozen form or as boxed ingredients for simplified preparation.
The vegetables are kept from burning by the addition of animal fats or oils, or the addition of meat products such as salt pork or andouille.
They are on principle open to the public; however, they are a classroom environment, and the primary objective is to facilitate student learning.
Keep warm – can be automatically activated after some of the programs end and can maintain a hot meal for several hours.
Curdling is purposeful in the production of cheese curd and tofu, but undesirable in the production of a sauce, cheese fondue or a custard.
German mothers would pass on their childhood kitchens to their daughters, which became a widespread practice by the nineteenth century.
Criticism The dipper well has been criticized in the United States as wasteful since on average it pumps 30 to 60 US gallons (110 to 230 L) of water an hour and is normally left running continuously.
A study examining the blend of refined bleached deodorized palm olein oil and Macadamia integrifolia oil for deep-fat frying found that the latter displayed enhanced stability and reduced oxidation, highlighting its potential for high-temperature cooking applications.
See also Champagne stirrer Cocktail umbrella Swizzle stick Toothpick References External links Williams, Kenneth; Freud, Clement; Jones, Peter; Kelly, Henry; Parsons, Nicholas (21 July 1984).
Manufacture Since the 1930s, industrial cottage cheese has been manufactured using pasteurized skim milk, or in more modern processes using concentrated nonfat milk or reconstituted nonfat dry milk.
The batterie de cuisine (French; literally, kitchen artillery, i.e., kitchenware) is the range of tools and pans used in a kitchen.
See also Beer cake Beer can chicken List of soups Beer portal References Further reading The Soup Book - Louis P.
The Roman gods are also closely related to Greek mythology, with the Roman goddess of youth Juventas being the counterpart to Greek Hebe.
Cappuccinos incorporated the use of frothed milk made through the steaming properties of espresso machines.
These chemicals are explosively volatile and may cause environmental contamination; as a result they are handled carefully.
cookbooks give more precise equivalents, typically ⁠1/16⁠ US customary teaspoon; some sources define it as ⁠1/8⁠ or ⁠1/24⁠ teaspoon.
Modern cookers include electronic time, temperature and pressure controllers and are marketed as "automated multipurpose cooking appliances".
The Voskos brand entered the US market in 2009 with imported Greek yogurt products at 10%, 2%, and 0% milkfat.
However, despite many working a very long day, the women usually make less than US$221 (£170 stg) a month (and even as low as US$50), which is below Morocco's recommended national minimum wage.
The layers of vegetation covering the food must extend past the edges of the pit to ensure the food is not contaminated by the soil it is buried under.
The bacteria that developed during fermentation thickened the cream and made it more acidic, a natural way of preserving it.
The INAO has not submitted a file at the National Institute of Industrial Property, it is therefore copied en masse and has gradually replaced other tasting glasses in the world.
Beer soup (German: Biersuppe, Alsatian: Biersupp, Czech: Pivní polévka) is a soup which is usually roux-based and made with beer.
Prior to the adoption of the unit of the minim in the early 19th century, the smallest unit of fluid measure in the Apothecaries' systems of the United States customary units and pre-1824 English units was, while inexact, presumed to be equal to ⁠1/60⁠ of a fluid dram or ⁠1/480⁠ of a fluid ounce.
The term "hone" is associated with light maintenance performed on a blade without the effort and precision normally associated with sharpening, so the name "hone" was borrowed.
The characteristic brown-black color of the crust results from a combination of browned milk solids from the butter and charred spices.
She then published her first cookbooks, Perfect Picnics for All Seasons and Some Like It Hot, a cookbook inspired by the movie of the same name.
The name references the city of Nuremberg, the center of the nineteenth-century German toy industry.
Dry aging became more popular in the 1980s, and dry aged beef continues to be sold in high-end restaurants around the world.
The mixture is agitated to create a slurry, and is then aseptically treated using various machines to heat and sterilize the product and make it pourable, after which sterile bottles, jars or cans are filled with the product.
In addition to icing, pastry bags are commonly used to shape meringue and whipped cream, and to fill doughnuts with jelly or custard.
Lee Chae-min as Lee Heon The King of Joseon, who is regarded as both the best gourmet and the worst tyrant, later finds himself attracted to Ji-yeong.
A development chef is a trained chef specialising in the development of new dishes or food products.
In the mid-1970s Amharas began recruiting Harari artisans to develop a particular mesob which incorporated Abyssinian and Harari designs; this variety came to dominate mesob production in Ethiopia.
History In February 1989 the Army Center of Excellence, Subsistence (ACES) was created by the Department of the Army under the U.S.
According to writer Tony Polombo, pans that are not non-stick are better for producing pan gravy, because the fond (the caramelized drippings that stick to the pan when meat is cooked) sticks to them, and can be turned into pan gravy by deglazing them—dissolving them in liquid.
Smen (from Arabic: سمن or سمنة also called sman, semn, semneh, or sminn) is a salted, fermented butter native to North African cuisine (Algerian, Moroccan and Tunisian), as well as a traditional Yemeni dish.
This will impart a delicate peach flavor to the cake." The bamboo whisk or chasen was invented in the late 15th century by Murata Jukō, who commissioned its production by Takayama Minbunojo Nyudo Sosetsu.
Paper impregnated or coated with purified beeswax was widely used throughout the 19th century to retain or exclude moisture, or to wrap odorous products.
Aligue fried rice (Tagalog pronunciation: [alɪˈgɛ]), also known as crab fat fried rice or aligue rice, is a Filipino fried rice dish cooked by stir-frying pre-cooked rice with crab fat (taba ng talangka or aligue), toasted garlic, spring onions, black pepper, rock salt, and optionally butter.
Reusable bags are usually made from tightly woven nylon, polyester, rubber or waterproofed (plastic-coated) cotton.
The fishwives wore distinctive costumes of blue duffle coats covering layers of colourful striped petticoats with a muslin cap or other similar headdress.
Traditional foods are foods and dishes that are passed on through generations or which have been consumed for many generations.
He decided that 24 letters were not sufficient to capture the English language, and devised instead an alphabet of 40 letters.
Romanization standards include the following: Arabic Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft (1936): Adopted by the International Convention of Orientalist Scholars in Rome.
The lettering used by British artists did not always follow the Trajan capital model, often adding changes such as serifs on the top of the 'M' and 'N', and of course the lower case, Arabic numerals and italics which the Romans did not have.
The accented vowels are used in dictionaries to indicate pronunciation, and ⟨g⟩ with tilde is only present in older works.
'imperishable, indestructible, fixed, immutable') is a consonant letter together with any vowel diacritics in a Brahmic script.
Crown Script The Crown script (خط التاج, Khat al Taj)—is a modern Arabic script fabricated by Egyptian calligrapher Mohammad Mahfouz in 1931 and proposed by then-King Fuad I.
After 1947, with the need for translation of Bible, Latin scripts for Bunun, Paiwan, Taroko, Atayal, and Amis were created.
⟨main⟩ / ⟨mane⟩, ⟨buy⟩ / ⟨by⟩ / ⟨bye⟩, ⟨stare⟩ / ⟨stair⟩, ⟨sight⟩ / ⟨site⟩ / ⟨cite⟩, ⟨none⟩ / ⟨nun⟩, ⟨scene⟩ / ⟨seen⟩, ⟨tail⟩ / ⟨tale⟩ Some words are respelt where an alternate spelling can be used instead of an apostrophe.
In May 1964, the General List of Simplified Chinese Characters (简化字总表) was published by the Chinese Character Reform Press as a new standard list of simplified Chinese characters, which largely ratified and revised the 'Chinese Character Simplification Scheme.
It denotes a glottal stop [ʔ] in orthographies of many languages, such as Nenets (in Cyrillic script) and the artificial Klingon language.
If the individual items of a list are long, complex, affixed with description, or themselves contain commas, semicolons may be preferred as separators, and the list may be introduced with a colon.
File managers such as Windows Explorer (since Windows XP) and Midnight Commander utilize natural sorting by default to display file lists.
This has different spacing from \mid and \parallel, which are relational operators: a \mid b \parallel c is set as a ∣ b ∥ c {\displaystyle a\mid b\parallel c} .
References External links eoconv – a tool to convert text between various orthographic substitutions
By the time of Lorrain's retirement in 1932, the status of Mizoram as one of the most Christian states of modern India, was already anticipated.
Unicode 1.0 (1991) and ISO 10646 (1993) took the first 256 code positions from ISO 8859-1, resulting in SHY at Unicode code point of U+00AD.
A yig mgo is a textual caret mark in Tibetan script which is one of the possible markers for a new text or page.
forehead once rhymed with horrid but is now pronounced with the second syllable as by 85% of American speakers and 65% of British speakers.
Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters, LTD, 2005, 208 p., ISBN 1-85359-785-6 Diethelm Prowe: Review of Sally Johnson, Spelling Trouble?
Nasal vowels are written with a cedilla: a̧ etc., rather than with a tilde to leave room for tone marking, or with a single following nasal consonant: aŋ etc.
For human readers, the difference is imperceptible and unimportant but it has significance in text processing applications.
This is the fourth edition of the standard and was published on 2016-02-15, corrected on 2016-05-01 and covers up to and including Unicode 8.0.
Geschichte der Fabeldichtung in England bis zu John Gay (1726): Nebst Neudruck von Bullokars "Fables of Æsop" 1585, "Booke at Large" 1580, "Bref Grammar for English" 1586, und "Pamphlet for Grammar" 1586.
Conversely, to soften ⟨c⟩ or ⟨g⟩ (to /tʃ/ or /dʒ/ respectively) before a back vowel (⟨a⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨u⟩), a silent ⟨i⟩ is inserted: ⟨–cio–⟩, ⟨–giu–⟩, etc.
2nd Thessalonians, Titus, and Philemon were excluded because they were too short to give reliable samples.
See also Book of the Dean of Lismore Islay Charter Glenmasan Manuscript Notes References MacPharlain, Calum Lamh-Sgrìobhainn Mhic Rath, (Dundee) Thomson, Derick S.
One example was ä → ae in the sense of alphabetising any word with ä as if the letter were replaced by "ae".
An official script is a writing system that is specifically designated to be official in the constitutions or other applicable laws of countries, states, and other jurisdictions.
Its significance is derived from its role as a "syllable", the essential and embryonic core of speech.
This has received particular attention when menu and ribbon titles appeared in all caps in Visual Studio 2012 and Office 2013, respectively.
Consonants Uncommon consonants that do not make a phonemic contrast within a language with similar but more common consonants are not provided for.
In practice, however, the orthographies of such languages entail at least a certain amount of deviation from the ideal of exact grapheme–phoneme correspondence.
Hebrew Popular Journalism : Birth and Development in Ottoman Palestine, London and N.Y, Routledge, 2019 (History of Ben-Yehuda's Press) Hassan, Hassan Ahmad; al-Kayyali, Abdul-Hameed (2018).
Ben Naphtali and Ben Asher Ben Naphtali wrote a Bible with vowels, accents, and Masorah, which differed in some respects from that of his contemporary and rival, Aaron ben Moses ben Asher (generally called Ben Asher).
He was beatified in 1951 by Pope Pius XII and is commemorated by the Catholic Church on 29 January and 2 July.
Founded by Jeff Rubin in 2004, National Punctuation Day simply promotes the correct usage of punctuation.
In general in German, long stressed vowels are followed by single consonants, and short stressed vowels by double consonants.
The Mundi script spread to other parts of India by the 17th or 18th century, with it having influence on merchant records written in Karnataka in Kannada script, particularly the form and style of writing.
The iNiQUiTY BBS software based on Renegade had a feature to support two variants of this automatically: either all vowels would be uppercase or all vowels would be lowercase, with the consonants as the other case.
One of the few places where ano teleia exists is on the Microsoft Windows Polytonic Greek keyboard (having the driver name KBDHEPT.DLL).
In HTML5, the tag reappeared but its meaning was changed significantly: it now "represents a span of inline text which should be rendered in a way that indicates that it has a non-textual annotation".
With the advent of the Internet, the all-caps style is more often used for emphasis; however, it is considered poor netiquette by some to type in all capitals, and said to be tantamount to shouting.
An early system to overcome this, still used today, is matres lectionis, where four of these letters, alef, he, vav and yud also serve as vowel letters.
ḥarakāt (In Arabic: حركات also called تشكيل tashkīl): (ــَـ) fatḥa (a) (ــِـ) kasra (i) (ــُـ) ḍamma (u) (ــْـ) sukūn (no vowel) The ḥarakāt or vowel points serve two purposes: They serve as a phonetic guide.
Modern examples: I have the bed still, it is in every way suitable for the old house where I live now (E.
Medieval European charters written in Latin are largely made up of such abbreviated words with contraction marks and other abbreviations; only uncommon words were given in full.
A complete list of these differences can be found in Mishael Ben Uzziel's treatise Kitāb Al-Khilaf, the book of the Ḥillufim (Differences), which is thought to have been written before 1050.
History Zalgo text was pioneered in 2004 by a Something Awful forum member who created image macros of glitched or distorted cartoon characters exclaiming "Zalgo!" The text in the images was often distorted, and the style of the distortion became popularised as "Zalgo text".
RISC OS uses dots to separate levels of the hierarchical file system when writing path names—similar to / (forward-slash) in Unix-based systems and \ (back-slash) in MS-DOS-based systems and the Windows NT systems that succeeded them.
Further problems are caused by examples of confusion with English, such as connection (incorrect) and connexion (correct).
Programmers originally called the exclamation mark by its full name or "shriek", but Unix popularized the "bang" name.
If the hamza is final: If a short vowel precedes, the hamza is written over the letter (alif, wāw, or yāʾ) corresponding to the short vowel.
IBM code page 850 (an MS-DOS character set covering all ISO 8859-1 characters) placed it at position 240 = 0xF0.
The example of the Fitz prefix, a Norman French patronymic, is applied by ignoring the following space, which may or may not occur.
In his edition of the works of Aristotle, which appeared in 1483 or 1484, the Milanese Renaissance humanist Francesco Filelfo marked literal and appropriate quotes with oblique double dashes on the left margin of each line.
Some sources now state it is acceptable for monospaced fonts to be single-spaced today, although other references continue to specify double spacing for monospaced fonts.
The trademark symbol ™ is a symbol to indicate that the preceding mark is a trademark, specifically an unregistered trademark.
Maunoir was found to be uniquely suited for the difficult task of evangelizing the impoverished people of Brittany.
Vowels Vowels that appear phonetically in Cameroonian languages, but do not make phonemic distinctions, are not provided for.
Etymology Liddell and Scott's Greek–English Lexicon gives the basic meaning of korōnis as "crook-beaked" from which a general meaning of "curved" is supposed to have derived.
Budapest: Rovas Foundation, ISBN 978-963-88437-4-6 External links The Szarvas Rovas inscription on the RovasPedia Jenő Demeczky, Dr.
Romani in North Macedonia Romani in North Macedonia is written with the following alphabet: This alphabet is used in the educational system in North Macedonia for Romani-speaking students.
However, this is a doubling of the trigraph ⟨sch⟩ to indicate that the preceding vowel is short rather than itself being a hexagraph.
(The reading is not in any particular order; the explanation will start with the glyph in the center and then go clockwise.) In the center of the diagram is a dog's head, meaning it is a 'dog day'.
Trediakovsky was also a prolific translator of classical authors, medieval philosophers, and French literature.
Die feministische Sprachkritik und ihre Auswirkungen auf die deutsche Gegenwartssprache [Feminist Linguistic Criticism and its Effect on Contemporary German] (in German).
However, combining characters are required in half-width kana, which does not provide any precomposed characters in order to fit within a single byte.
A special letter ɀ was suggested for the sound /ʑ/, and along with it the digraph dɀ for /d͡ʑ/ (modern dź and dzi).
Chinese character The CJK Symbols and Punctuation block contains one Chinese character: U+3007 〇 IDEOGRAPHIC NUMBER ZERO.
While Arabic is dominant in the Arabian Peninsula today, some modern South Arabian languages, though endangered, survive, with several hundred thousand speakers across Yemen (including Socotra) and Oman.
The letters eth (⟨ð⟩, capital ⟨Ð⟩), transliterated as ⟨d⟩, and thorn (⟨þ⟩, capital ⟨Þ⟩), transliterated as ⟨th⟩, are widely used in the Icelandic language.
Although Modern Mandarin has numerous polysyllabic words, and each syllable is written with a distinct character, the conceptual link between character and word or at least morpheme remains strong, and no need is felt for word separation apart from what characters already provide.
In addition to the manuscript written by Crux there are various excerpts deposited in the archives of Prague Castle.
More popularly known as "Pu Buanga Dictionary", Dictionary of the Lushai Language became the foundation of Mizo language and literature.
Early interest In 1965, Richard Isbell created the Americana typeface for American Type Founders and included the interrobang as one of the characters.
Moving back to traditional characters on the mainland has the potential to be difficult, confusing, and time-consuming.
The characters were often depicted bleeding from their eyes, and forum members interpreted Zalgo as an unimaginable, eldritch apocalyptic figure.
Letters with single bar Letters with double bar See also Strikethrough X-bar theory (formal linguistics) Parallel (operator) Notes == References ==
Ambiguity Clarity of simplified characters Proponents feel that some traditional characters are too similar in appearance, such as 書 (shū) "book", 晝 (zhòu) "daytime", and 畫/畵 (huà) "drawing": in contrast, the simplified forms which are 书, 昼, and 画 respectively are much more distinct.
Lateral masking is a problem for the human visual perception of identical or similar entities in close proximity.
The Modern Language Association (MLA) used to indicate that an ellipsis must include spaces before and after each dot in all uses.
In sociolinguistics, a double or triple slash may also be used in the transcription of a traditional sociolinguistic interview or in other type of linguistic elicitation to represent simultaneous speech, interruptions, and certain types of speech disfluencies.
Postal romanization (1906): Early standard for international addresses Wade–Giles (1892): Transliteration.
However, some logograms still meaningfully depict the meaning of the morpheme they represent visually.
Since the Malay sections of publishing houses were mainly manned by members of the Literary Movement 1950 or their sympathisers, the Movement's style of spelling seemed to gain a widespread currency through published works.
310–320 – 403) used both a horizontal slash or hook (with or without dots) and an upright and slightly slanting dagger to represent an obelus.
The Coptic alphabet originated as a case of garshunography, the use of the Greek alphabet to write the Egyptian language.
Kateřina Voleková, Czech translation Ondřej Koupil, English translation Marcela Koupilová and David Livingstone.
English General overview In English orthography, the pronunciation of hard ⟨c⟩ is /k/ and of soft ⟨c⟩ is generally /s/.
In place of the first s in a double s, Mathewson recreated the long s in these copies, a practice widely used for both personal and business correspondence by her family, who lived on the remote island of Yell, Shetland.
Asemic art, after all, represents a kind of language that's universal and lodged deep within our unconscious minds.
Its purpose is to "indicate minor breaks in text", to call attention to a passage, or to separate sub-chapters in a book.
This action unwittingly introduced into the Pampangan literary scene the bitter orthographic conflict which had by then begun to take root at the national level between writers supportive of one spelling system and the other.
In languages that capitalize all nouns, reverential capitalization of the first two letters or the whole word can sometimes be seen.
Oliver, Lethaby introduced the Trajan's Column inscription to Johnston and as professor of design at the Royal College of Art put casts of the inscription of Trajan's Column as a standard for students to follow.
Numbers Lycian uses the following number symbols: I (vertical stroke) = 1, < ("less than" sign) (or, rarely, L or C or V or Y) = 5, O (circle) = 10; a horizontal stroke — is one half; a symbol somewhat like our letter H may mean 100.
Austroasiatic languages Khmer script (for Khmer language) Khom script (for Bahnaric languages) Chữ Nôm (historical writing for Vietnamese language) Austronesian languages Most Austronesian languages use Latin script today.
The hyphen is sometimes confused with dashes (en dash –, em dash — and others), which are wider, or with the minus sign −, which is also wider and usually drawn a little higher to match the crossbar in the plus sign +.
This system was widely used within the country but differed from the orthographies of neighboring countries of West Africa, as developed in the wake of the 1966 Bamako expert meeting on harmonizing orthographies of the cross-border languages of the region.
An open source implementation of UCA is included with the International Components for Unicode, ICU.
John Mace's Teach Yourself Arabic Verbs and Essential Grammar presents alternative forms in almost all cases when hamza is followed by a long ū.
The term featural was introduced by Geoffrey Sampson to describe the Korean alphabet and Pitman shorthand.
This practice was found in Phoenician, Aramaic, Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, and continues today with Ethiopic, though there, whitespace is gaining ground.
While many sources provide default recommendations on whether to use the serial comma as a matter of course, most also include exceptions for situations where it is necessary to avoid ambiguity (see Serial comma § Recommendations by style guides).
In 1989, following a meeting on reform of the alphabet in 1988, it was decided to adopt an orthography similar to the African reference alphabet used elsewhere in the region.
It discussed for the first time in Russian literature such poetic genres as the sonnet, the rondeau, the madrigal, and the ode.
יענקל׳ה – Yankale (as in Yankale Bodo), or the words חבר׳ה – [ˈχevre], 'guys' (which is the Yiddish pronunciation of Hebrew חבורה [χabuˈra] 'company'), or תכל׳ס – [ˈtaχles], 'in the end' or 'to conclude', from Hebrew תכלית [taχˈlit], 'ending'.
With alphabetic writing systems, phonological awareness plays a central role in reading acquisition; while phonological awareness in Chinese is much less important.
The device has a variety of uses, and it usually denotes an intentional omission or a logical "break" of varying degree in a written work.
In another textbook of the Evenki language, a standard alphabet, with the addition of the letter Ө ө.
Even for a lightly inflected language like English, the spell checker will need to consider different forms of the same word, such as plurals, verbal forms, contractions, and possessives.
Unicode The Lycian alphabet was added to the Unicode Standard in April, 2008 with the release of version 5.1.
Julien Maunoir died in Plévin, Brittany, on 28 January 1683, and was buried in the parish church grounds at the insistence of his people.
These lists are printed in the Mikraot Gedolot (rabbinical Bible), in the texts of Baer-Delitzsch and Christian David Ginsburg's Masorah vol.
In different languages In English American English The Chicago Manual of Style suggests the use of an ellipsis for any omitted word, phrase, line, or paragraph from within but not at the end of a quoted passage.
The final version, SSS-2004, was renamed International Movement Writing Alphabet (SSS-IMWA) to reflect its usefulness in applications beyond sign language.
The quotation marks 「...」, 『...』 and 〝...〟 rotate 90 degrees, as follows: See also General Punctuation, for variation selectors and CJK behaviour of the Latin quotation marks ‘...’ and “...”.
The human brain does have language centers (for spoken and gestural communication), but written language is a cultural artifact, and a very complex one requiring brain regions designed to recognize and interpret written symbols as representations of language in rapid synchronization.
Of these two scholars, the Rolbiidorj’s numerals, their names and sequencing are commonly accepted and used today, for example, in the calculations and documents pertaining to the Mongolian Government budget.
Recognising the lack of teachers in the language, Chesswas took the opportunity to publish a textbook for stations where no teachers of the language were available.
Arsenyev's recordings are judged by experts to be much more accurate than those of his predecessors.
They interact with the ambiguous consonant letters к, velar /k/ or uvular /q/, and г, velar /ɡ/ or uvular /ʁ/.
The word iroha (イロハ, often in katakana) itself can mean "the basics" in Japanese, comparable to the term "the ABCs" in English.
It may be instructive to consider an unrelated development in the evolution of the Etruscan alphabet from Greek: Greek had three letters, Γ, Κ, and Ϙ, whose sounds were not distinguished in Etruscan.
[Meaning unclear.] At top right is the Sun (18 above) crossed out in chains, meaning it will be hindered and the weather will not be good.
Isidore of Seville remarks in his Etymologiae (I.21.13) that the diple was used to mark quotations from the Bible.
The normal way in most of Europe to write the number seven is with a bar.) In medieval English scribal abbreviations, a stroke or bar was used to indicate abbreviation.
The seven-letter German sequence ⟨schtsch⟩, used to transliterate the Russian and Ukrainian letter ⟨щ⟩, as in ⟨Borschtsch⟩ [bɔʁʃtʃ] for Russian/Ukrainian ⟨борщ⟩ (Russian: [borɕː], Ukrainian: [bɔrʃtʃ]) "borscht", is a sequence of a trigraph ⟨sch⟩ [ʃ] and a tetragraph ⟨tsch⟩ [t͡ʃ].
It has been estimated that he used more than 400 new words in his collections of 1904 and 1907 alone.
In the 1840s, on behalf of the Archbishop of Kamchatka and Aleutian Innokentiy (Veniaminov), church texts began to be translated into the Even language.
"From orthography to phonetics: ERP measures of grapheme-to-phoneme conversion mechanisms in reading".
Reforms of Kapampangan orthography in the Latin script began with the adoption toward the end of Spanish colonial rule of an indigenized orthography.
Visually similar symbols The dagger should not be confused with the symbols U+271D ✝ LATIN CROSS, U+253C ┼ BOX DRAWINGS LIGHT VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL, or other cross symbols.
Tall man lettering (tall-man lettering or tallman lettering) is the practice of writing part of a drug's name in upper case letters to help distinguish sound-alike, look-alike drugs from one another in order to avoid medication errors.
Thus, for instance, Hart documents that the pronunciation of words that had Middle English long /iː/ but shifted to /aɪ/ in Modern English was still variable in his days, with some speakers retaining /iː/ in some words, but a diphthong /ɛɪ/ (spelled ei by Hart) already common in others.
Ideographic runes appear to have mainly been used for saving space, but they were also mainly used without inflection.
The first letters were invented in Ancient Egypt to serve as an aid in writing Egyptian hieroglyphs; these are referred to as Egyptian uniliteral signs by lexicographers.
This use of digraphs with ⟨h⟩ to indicate lenition is distinct from the other uses which derive from Latin.
The character is referred to as a hyphen, a minus sign, or a dash according to the context where it is being used.
In order to avoid a complete re-typesetting of the entire text for this discrepancy, the publishers commonly shifted 神 so that it also took two spaces and the rest of the text could be typeset identically with 上帝.) Ping tai Ping tai (Chinese: 平抬, literally "level shift") is another form.
In rhetoric, a parenthesis (pl.: parentheses; from the Ancient Greek word παρένθεσις parénthesis 'injection, insertion', literally '(a) putting in beside') or parenthetical phrase is an explanatory or qualifying word, phrase, clause, or sentence inserted into a passage.
37–41 Vékony, Gábor (1985): Késő népvándorláskori rovásfeliratok [Runic inscriptions from the Late Migration Period].
Efforts of language planners have been hampered by the significant dialectal divisions in Romani: the absence of standard phonology, in turn, makes the selection of a single written form problematic.
Stroke order per polity The modern governments of mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Japan have standardized official stroke orders to be taught in schools.
Relaunch: 2022–present In February 2022, Bob McCalden, a former IT director, took over ownership of the APS and re-launched it, together with a new website.
There are some exceptions to this rule, mainly occurring when the right side of a character has a lower enclosure (see below).
There's no clear consensus." Regardless, some far-right users of Twitter saw the tweet as a genuine signal of support for antisemitism, and other users found the tweet to be in poor taste even as a joke.
Full Braille representation Origins The kun'yomi pronunciation of the character 濁 (daku in on'yomi) is nigori; hence the dakuten may also be called the nigori-ten.
Semasiography ('writing with signs', from Greek semasia 'signification' + graphia 'writing') is the use of symbols, called semasiographs, to "communicate information without the necessary intercession of forms of speech".
This list does not cover local variations of international scripts, such as which diacritics are used.
It was recognized, though, that if Demotic had become the state language, it might well have alienated millions of non-Greek speaking Orthodox believers within the potentially much larger future borders.
The term "alternating case" has been used as early as the 1970s, in several studies on word identification.
In the latter case, they both contributed enough significant material to the screenplay to receive credit but did not work together.
Capitalization of multi-word place names, institutions, and titles of works English usage is not consistent, but generally prepositions and articles are not capitalized: "the Forest of Dean", "Gone with the Wind", "University of Southampton".
Use In early Unicode (versions 1.0–2.1.9) U+02BC was preferred for the punctuation apostrophe in English.
The earliest Classical Greek and Roman texts were written in all capital letters with minimal spacing; punctuation was sparse and not standardized.
The Microsoft Windows family of operating systems inherited the MS-DOS behavior and so still support either character – but individual Windows programs and sub-systems may, wrongly, only accept the backslash as a path delimiter, or may misinterpret a forward slash if it is used as such.
It was rejected by the Armenian diaspora, most of which speak Western Armenian, including the Armenian communities in Iran, which also speak Eastern Armenian and still use the classical orthography of the Armenian alphabet.
Additionally, in Japanese, the logographic (Chinese-derived) reading is called the on'yomi reading, and the morphographic reading (native Japanese) is called the kun'yomi reading.
Symbols and semiotics Semiotics is the study of signs, symbols, and signification as communicative behavior.
Protoscholastic writing refers to the period in the Middle Ages when writing styles changed from liturgical models, mere adjuncts to the recitation of prayer, to a more complex form.
In FoxPro/Visual FoxPro, it is also used to indicate explicit pass by reference of variables when calling procedures or functions (but it is not an address operator).
In manuscripts written before Hus, all of the following representations were in use: rz, rrz, rs, rzs, rzss, zr, sr, rzs and rzz.
It was one of the two main scripts used by merchants in northwest India, the other being Langdi employed in the Punjab region.
Generally equivalent to the baseline universal standard of formal English orthography mentioned above; that is, only the first word is capitalized, except for proper nouns and other words which are generally capitalized by a more specific rule.
This cursive form influenced the monumental form more and more and gradually changed into the Arabic alphabet.
The 1993 edition of the Ukrainian Spelling Book, which resembles previous editions and is still in force, extended the rule of nine to the proper names of foreign locations, such as Argentina, Chile, and Syria.
Kodava Takk is generally written in the Kannada script, but can also be found written in the Malayalam script, especially along the borders with Kerala.
John Douglas Chesswas MBE (1919 – 28 February 2009) was a British author, linguist and policy advisor in Uganda.
San tai San tai (Chinese: 三抬, literally "triple shift") as above, but three characters above a normal line; since Chinese writers customarily leave a margin of two characters for tai tou from the paper border, a san tai would require the first character to appear outside of the page borders.
This revision created the standard script, known as tongki fuka sindaha hergen (Manchu: ᡨ᠋ᠣᠩᡴᡳ ᡶ᠋ᡠᡴᠠ ᠰᡳᠨ᠋ᡩ᠋ᠠᡥᠠ ᡥᡝᡵᡤᡝᠨ) — the "script with dots and circles".
Example in poetry The poem "Job's Job" from Richard Lederer's The Word Circus is an example of the use of capitonyms: Other languages In other languages there are more, or fewer, of these pairs depending on that language's capitalization rules.
In Japanese, list items are typically connected either with the particle と ("and") throughout or separated simply by commas, as in 母と父と私 or 母、父、私.
Example, Zn | Zn2+ || Cu2+ | Cu Single vertical lines show components of the cell which do not mix, usually being in different phases.
These are easier to understand when reading commands (some software does not care about the number of hyphen-minuses, and either does not allow combinations of single-letter options, or requires the user to rearrange them, so they do not match a long option).
In situations where both words should be capitalized (such as the beginning of a sentence), there will be nothing to distinguish between them except the context in which they are used.
In this standard, 艹 is written vertical–horizontal–vertical–horizontal, instead of the traditional vertical–horizontal–horizontal–vertical.
Diple (Ancient Greek: διπλῆ, meaning double, referring to the two lines in the mark >) was a mark used in the margins of ancient Greek manuscripts to draw attention to something in the text.
He sided with Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian, whose army entered Vicenza in June 1509, accompanied by members of the Vicentine nobility, including the Thiene, Chiericati, and Porto families.
'from the Shah's or King's mouth', Gurmukhī: ਸ਼ਾਹਮੁਖੀ) is the right-to-left abjad-based script developed from the Perso-Arabic alphabet used for the Punjabi language varieties, predominantly in Punjab, Pakistan.
"The Semiotics of the Writing Systems of Tolkien's Middle-earth." In Semiotics around the World: Synthesis in Diversity, I-II, ed.
The rule of nine (Ukrainian: Правило дев'ятки) is a orthographic rule of the Ukrainian language, which prohibits writing the letter "i" in loanwords after nine consonants (д, т, з, с, ц, ж, ш, ч, and р) if the next letter is a consonant (except for "й").
Syriac kap ܟܟܟ ܟ‎ Character encodings See also Ca (Indic) Gaf Gueh Ka (Indic) Ngaph == References ==
(presumably assimilating to any following consonant), in which case [VN] would be written with a double nasal: aŋŋ etc.
In mathematical texts that include the plus sign, the Unicode minus is preferred to the hyphen-minus, because its metrics match the plus sign in level and length.
History In Ancient Egyptian, determinatives may have been used as much to demarcate word boundaries as to disambiguate the semantics of words.
The service mark symbol is less commonly used than the trademark sign, especially outside the United States.
The European ordering rules (EOR / EN 13710) define an ordering for strings written in languages that are written with the Latin, Greek and Cyrillic alphabets.
They were at 0xAE and 0xAF (174 and 175) in CP437 on the IBM PC, and 0xC7 and 0xC8 in Mac OS Roman, and placed in several of ISO 8859 code pages (namely: -1, -7, -8, -9, -13, -15, -16) at 0xAB and 0xBB (171 and 187).
The Swedish heathen law, for example, begins with: Givr ᛘ oquæþins orð manni · þu ær æi mans maki oc eig ᛘ i brysti · Ek ær ᛘ sum þv (Old Swedish) Giver [man] okvädningsord till annan: Du är ej mans make och ej [man] i bröstet.
Heffernan recalls that: "The old people worried that this school business didn't fit well with our culture.
On the other hand, others worry that this approach could prompt educators "to abandon research-tested practices that are only just now securing a foothold in districts".
Adoption Some writers omit the upside-down question mark in the case of a short unambiguous question such as: "Quién viene?" ("Who comes?").
of a word], which the apex makes entirely distinct from the ending that m or n makes, with a meaning entirely diverse in words in which it is employed.
Many languages written in the Latin alphabet make use of diacritics, and those letters using diacritics are sometimes considered separate letters within the language's alphabet.
Comparison chart Note: The bopomofo extended characters in the zhuyin row require a UTF-8 font capable of displaying Unicode values 31A0–31B7 (ex.
Heterograms are frequent in cuneiform scripts, such as the Akkadian cuneiform, which uses Sumerian heterograms, or the Anatolian cuneiform, which uses both Sumerian and Akkadian heterograms.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
Such ambiguous positioning occurs in old books like the Codex Leningradensis (around year 1006) whose text on paper was extremely compacted with minimal spacing between letters.
For example: דּוּ״חַ (singular), דּוּ״חוֹת (plural), "report" represents דין וחשבון; and מ״כ (masculine), מַ״כִּית (feminine), "squad commander" represents מפקד(ת) כיתה.
They occur in Irish orthography, and many of them can be analysed as a tetragraph followed by the vowels ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩ on either side to indicate that the neighbouring consonants are palatalized ("slender").
Yakut дь /ɟ/, нь /ɲ/ See also Languages using Cyrillic List of Cyrillic letters Bigram Diacritic Diphthong Typographic ligature Notes == References ==
Without letter case, a "unified European alphabet" – such as ABБCГDΔΕЄЗFΦGHIИJ...Z, with an appropriate subset for each language – is feasible; but considering letter case, it becomes very clear that these alphabets are rather distinct sets of symbols.
Other typographical examples include ⟨§⟩ 'section', ⟨€⟩ 'euro', ⟨£⟩ 'pound sterling', and ⟨©⟩ 'copyright'.
The Commission on the Filipino Language (Filipino: Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino) has published several standardized prescriptive orthographies for select languages of the Philippines.
The oldest parts of the Gothic Bible, contained in the Codex Argenteus, are estimated to be from the fourth century.
Paragraph signs in non-Latin writing systems In Sanskrit and other Indian languages, text blocks are commonly written in stanzas.
Some other Semitic languages, including Northwest Semitic languages, are attested, including Aramaic and Hebrew.
Evil makes exaggerated use of air quotes when explaining matters to his henchmen, particularly while using real phrases he erroneously believes himself to have coined such as "laser" and "Death Star." Donald Trump used air quotes when he criticized “quote-President” Obama's refugee policies.
The main sources of reference for Mongolian numerals are mathematical and philosophical works of Janj khutugtu A.Rolbiidorj (1717-1766) and D.Injinaash (1704-1788).
The various official stroke orders agree on the vast majority of characters, but each has its differences.
The acute and the circumflex indicate stress and vowel height, the grave indicates crasis, the tilde represents nasalization, and the cedilla marks the result of a historical lenition.
It first appeared in the 11th century in the sequence ii (as in ingeníí), then spread to i adjacent to m, n, u, and finally to all lowercase is.
Formally this is a special case of quotient by an equivalence relation, where g ∼ h {\displaystyle g\sim h} iff g = h n {\displaystyle g=hn} for some n ∈ N {\displaystyle n\in N} .
It is often connected with Greek θέω (theō), "run", and θεωρέω (theoreō), "to look at, to see, to observe", Latin feriae "holidays", fanum "temple", and also Armenian di-k` "gods".
The double dagger should not be confused with the U+2628 ☨ CROSS OF LORRAINE, or U+2626 ☦ ORTHODOX CROSS, or U+01C2 ǂ LATIN LETTER ALVEOLAR CLICK in IPA, or U+167E ᙾ CANADIAN SYLLABICS WOODS-CREE FINAL TH.
In Sanskrit, the additional symbol of two vertical lines U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA is used to mark the end of a poetic verse.
On the other hand, Pietro Bembo argued that the Italian standard should be based on the language of the Florentine classics of the 14th century, especially Petrarch and Boccaccio (Dante's language was considered too unpolished).
Rumelhart and McClelland then extended the idea by expressing the triples in phonetic terms as Wickelfeatures.
Context-sensitive spell checkers There has been research on developing algorithms that are capable of recognizing a misspelled word, even if the word itself is in the vocabulary, based on the context of the surrounding words.
The custom "also had the unfortunate effect of suggesting that Broad Scots was not a separate language system, but rather a divergent or inferior form of English".
In the Imperial Liao-Jin-Yuan Three Histories National Language Explanation (欽定遼金元三史國語解 Qinding Liao Jin Yuan sanshi guoyujie) commissioned by the Qianlong Emperor, the Manchu alphabet is used to write Evenki (Solon) words.
The upside-down (also inverted, turned or rotated) question mark ¿ and exclamation mark ¡ are punctuation marks used to begin interrogative and exclamatory sentences or clauses in Spanish and some languages that have cultural ties with Spain, such as Asturian and Waray.
Sometimes, a minor word such as a preposition is not capitalized within the acronym, such as "WoW" for "World of Warcraft".
This aKaḥ savarṇe dīrghaḥ rule takes precedence over the general iKaḥ yaṆ aCi rule mentioned above, because this rule is more specific.
In the 1965 Bewitched episode "Prodigy", Gladys Kravitz (played by Alice Pearce) uses air quotes several times while reciting reviews of her brother's violin recitals.
A year later she compiled the book «Первая книга для чтения на тунгусском языке,» or «Әwәnkil dukuwuntin,» lit.
The comparison table was built by integrating the General List of Simplified Chinese Characters and the First List of Processed Variant Chinese Characters.
See also Collation – Assembly of written information into a standard order European ordering rules – Puts words into standard sequence ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 2 – Subcommittee for coded character sets Unicode – Character encoding standard External links and references ISO site, "ISO/IEC 14651:2016".
A serial comma following "Kris Kristofferson" would help prevent this being understood as Kris Kristofferson and Robert Duvall being the ex-wives in question.
At a third conference in Vienna in 1994, the results were recommended to the respective governments for acceptance.
The interrobang was in vogue for much of the 1960s; the word interrobang appeared in some dictionaries, and the mark was used in some magazine and newspaper articles.
Names in other languages In many languages other than English, although most typewriters included the symbol, the use of @ was less common before email became widespread in the mid-1990s.
The Congress Spelling System (Malay: Ejaan Kongres) is a spelling reform of Malay Rumi Script introduced during the third Malay Congress held in Johor Bahru and Singapore in 1956.
In early Old English of the 7th and 8th centuries, the digraph ⟨th⟩ was used until the Old English Latin alphabet adapted the runic letter ⟨þ⟩, as well as ⟨ð⟩, a modified version of the Latin letter ⟨d⟩, to represent this sound.
Other European languages eventually adopted these new letters and distinctions in their orthographies, before it was largely abandoned in contemporary Italian, which generally spells the sound [j] with an I.
In native German words, the doubling of ⟨z⟩, which corresponds to /ts/, is replaced by the digraph ⟨tz⟩.
More accurately, however, the Crown script isn't really a script of its own; it's more of an addition to existing scripts.
Robotic and computer characters often use square speech balloons and angular fonts reminiscent of OCR-A, suggesting a stilted, emotionless cadence.
Another convention in Middle Tamil (Sen-Tamil) is the use of silent vowels to address a mark of respect when beginning proper nouns.
"To identify themselves with a group." In the 1940s, Mongolia replaced the traditional Mongolian script first briefly with the Mongolian Latin alphabet and then, under Soviet influence, with the Mongolian Cyrillic alphabet.
The use of the apologetic apostrophe has become less widespread since the appearance of the 'Style Sheet' in 1947.
Early history: 2001–2019 The Apostrophe Protection Society (APS) was founded in 2001 by John Richards, a retired sub-editor, in response to his observations of widespread incorrect use of the apostrophe.
As, in these languages, use of script often has cultural or political connotations, proclamation of an official script is sometimes criticized as having a goal of influencing culture or politics or both.
Current psycholinguistic models of dyslexia are "largely developed on the basis of alphabetic writing systems such as English", but the amount of research on some logographic orthographies, Chinese in particular, is also fairly significant.
By contrast, the occurrence of the definite article "the" cannot be modeled by simple probabilistic laws because the number of nouns with definite article depends on the subject matter.
In 2004, the German federal minister of education and research, Edelgard Bulmahn, announced that this committee was to be given wide-ranging powers to make decisions about German spelling.
It is a type of assimilation, or, more specifically, anticipatory (or regressive) assimilation at a distance.
The digraph ⟨rr⟩, pronounced as a distinct alveolar trill, was never officially considered to be a letter in the Spanish alphabet, and the same is true ⟨gu⟩ and ⟨qu⟩ (for /ɡ/ and /k/ respectively before ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩).
The change began in the 7th century, and by the 14th century, the protoscholastic model was the standard.
In telling legends or relating something that happened, words can be drawn out for emphasis, or said quickly to emphasize an abrupt or sudden event.
Level 5 An optional, and usually omitted, fifth level can distinguish typographical differences, including whether the text is italic, normal or bold.
The manifesto concluded that [see below for supplements]: Big letters as shown in supplement one are to be called Crown Letters; taking into account the form in which these letters are enthroned and because they were developed under the will of the Crown.
And, still others suggest that one solution to differentiated instruction might be to utilize the "walk to read" approach.
In 1953 the family were "as good as pushed" into going to live at Santa Teresa (now the Ltyentye Apurte Community) and, once there, Heffernan was forced to live separately from her family in dormitory accommodation associated with the school and was only allowed to visit her family on weekends.
Effectively it re-introduced the space between words in religious texts, especially on the Continent.
In Japanese writing, it was adapted into a dot placed at the top-right corner of a character to denote the "muddiness" or nasality of consonants, as well as of the nasalized vowels /ĩ/ and /ũ/ adapted from the Chinese /ŋ/.
The paragraph, a section of prose typically dealing with the same topic, evolved from the use of the paragraphos, and its name comes from the French form of the term, paragraphe.
It was an extension of the Greek alphabet, with half a dozen additional letters for sounds not found in Greek.
Attack follows Ataman based on comparison of their third letters, and Baa comes after all of the others because it has a different first letter.
This orthography is not a single standardised form, but rather a set of orthographical practices which exhibit a basic "core" of shared graphemes and a small amount of divergence in several areas.
After-effects These reforms, which were part of the likbez policy carried out by the Soviets, have deeply affected not only the Eastern Armenian alphabet, but also the set of rules and conventions governing writing and word formation.
In the theory of writing systems, homophony (from the Greek: ὁμός, homós, "same" and Greek: φωνή, phōnē, "sound") refers to the presence or use of different signs (phonograms) for the same syllabic value, i.e.
After the advent of printing in Europe in 1455, printers made extensive use of both the italic and Roman ampersands.
Usually the difference is evident from the rest of the word, but when it is not, the sequence ю...ь is used for /jy/, as in юнь /jyn/ 'cheap'.
In his book, Butler condemned the vagaries of traditional English spelling and proposed the adoption of a system whereby 'men should write altogeđer according to đe sound now generally received'.
A few of these notable events are listed below: FontFeed credits National Punctuation Day with the revival of the interrobang.
They are deprecated as substitutes for small-cap formatting; rather, the basic character set should be used with suitable formatting controls as described in the preceding sections.
Computer-based word processors and typesetting software such as troff and TeX allow users to arrange text in a manner previously available only to professional typesetters.
Turkish In Turkish, an exclamation mark is used after a sentence or phrase for emphasis, and is common following both commands and the addressees of such commands.
For example, one can use the font-variant: unicase property to render text as unicase in supported browsers.
In previous centuries of classical scholarship, scholars who published texts from inscriptions, papyri, or manuscripts used divergent conventions to indicate the condition of the text and editorial corrections or restorations.
It is created by rotating right (clockwise) the wavy dash symbol (U+3030 〰 WAVY DASH) to form a vertical wave-like pattern.
In the 3rd century BC, Aristophanes of Byzantium invented a system of single dots (théseis) at varying levels, which separated verses and indicated the amount of breath needed to complete each fragment of the text when reading aloud.
In addition, there are single line and double line versions of the combining macron below, a diacritic that applies to single letters only.
That is, one would write ehôsângôj cîujâude for the nonsense phrase eĥoŝanĝoj ĉiuĵaŭde ("echo-change every Thursday").
The term "garshunography" comes from Garshuni, a term of uncertain origin that refers to the writing of the Arabic language in the Syriac script.
However, Mizrahi Jews and Israeli Arabs have differentiated between these letters as in other Semitic languages.
Similarly, Greek vowels did not distinguish between short and long, and thus Greek Aljamiado had the same issues and shortcomings as Ottoman orthography.
Examples of unetymological ⟨th⟩ in English are the name of the River Thames from Middle English Temese and the name Anthony (though the ⟨th⟩ is often pronounced /θ/ under the influence of the spelling) from Latin Antonius.
The system is not completely standardized, and, given the differences between dialects and speakers, many words have more than one “correct” spelling and pronunciation.
There are six vowel letters, one for each of the four oral vowels of Lycian, and separate letters for two of the four nasal vowels.
The mora e (spelt え & 衣) and ye had merged into /je/ in the 10th century, slightly before the poem was written down in 1079.
However, due to lack of availability of a double hyphen in most fonts, an equal sign is often used as a substitute.
The Celtiberian script is a Paleohispanic script that was the main writing system of the Celtiberian language, an extinct Continental Celtic language, which was also occasionally written using the Latin alphabet.
Resources that should not be available have been accessed with paths using particular mixes, such as http://example.net/secure\private.aspx.
-em, -emi were to be differentiated from -ym, -ymi for instrumental and locative according to an adjective's nominative ending.
Except for doubled trigraphs like German ⟨schsch⟩, hexagraphs are found only in Irish vowels, where the outside letters indicate whether the neighbouring consonant is "broad" or "slender".
There is also a Naxi tradition of pictographic symbols called dongba; this may sometimes be glossed with geba for clarification, since a dongba text may be intelligible only to its author.
History and implementations Functionality to sort by natural sort order is now widely available in software libraries for many programming languages and operating systems.
The term was devised by James McClelland and David Rumelhart in reference to the work of Wayne Wickelgren in 1969.
Small capitals are not found in all font designs, as traditionally in printing they were primarily used within the body text of books and so are often not found in fonts that are not intended for this purpose, such as sans-serif types which historically were not preferred for book printing.
"Shakespear" was less widely used into the 19th and 20th centuries, increasingly by advocates of rational spelling.
The DUCET is customizable for different languages, and some such customizations can be found in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR).
Another example is the root of the verb "to heal", which has the form 낫 nas- before a consonant, as in 낫다 natda, but the form 나 before a vowel, as in 나아 na.
This tradition existed among some Greek Muslims from Crete as well as Epirote Muslims in Ioannina who wrote their Cretan Greek in the Arabic alphabet.
Another is the digraph |th|, which represents two different phonemes (as in then and thin) and replaced the old letters |ð| and |þ|.
This is now considered old-fashioned, and when it was used it was usually seen in documents sent between emperor and ministers when the minister mentioned the emperor.
Although these forms were prescribed to be pronounced differently, the difference was not usually observed in everyday speech; pronunciations were used interchangeably, the one with и being more common.
In the Arab world, where Eastern Arabic numerals are used for writing numbers, a different character is used to separate the integer and fractional parts of numbers.
Unicode The Coorgi-Cox alphabet was proposed to Unicode in 2012, and as of 2021 it was tagged as a "Script Proposal in Progress".
Biography The son of a poor priest, Trediakovsky became the first Russian commoner to receive a humanistic education abroad, at the Sorbonne in Paris (1727–1730) where he studied philosophy, linguistics and mathematics.
The same was true of the United Kingdom until the 19th century, when it adopted a spelling pronunciation, with an audible h.
Command line The hyphen-minus character is often used when specifying command-line options, a convention popularized by Unix.
Pe is the seventeenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Arabic fāʾ ف‎, Aramaic pē 𐡐, Hebrew pē פ‎, Phoenician pē 𐤐, and Syriac pē ܦ.
Encoding The letter apostrophe is encoded at U+02BC ʼ MODIFIER LETTER APOSTROPHE, which is in the Spacing Modifier Letters Unicode block.
Dhofari The Dhofari script is a South Semitic writing system is a group of related South Semitic scripts used across southern and southeastern Arabia, from Dhofar in Oman to Al Mahrah in Yemen and as far as Socotra.
Code reference See also Dash#Swung dash Tilde#Unicode and Shift JIS encoding of wave dash Japanese punctuation#Wave dash == References ==
While there, he studied various subjects at the Sorbonne University—including the history and politics of the Middle East.
Juǀʼhoan has five vowel qualities, which may be nasalized, glottalized, murmured, or combinations of these, and most of these possibilities occur both long and short.
Ampersand is the name of a reactive programming language, which uses relation algebra to specify information systems.
Discussion regarding the use of all caps for headlines centers on the greater emphasis offered by all caps versus the greater legibility offered by lower-case letters.
In English Philosophical, religious, and political terms A particular example of where capitonyms are prominent is in terminology relating to philosophy, religion, and politics.
Although it is not covered under "Unified Ideographs", it is treated as a CJK character for all other intents and purposes.
Spanish is an alphabet with shallow orthography; there is clear one-to-one correspondence between phonemes and graphemes.
See also Hokkien Hokkien culture Written Hokkien Hokkien entertainment media Taiwanese Hokkien Singapore Hokkien Penang Hokkien Southern Malaysia Hokkien Medan Hokkien Philippine Hokkien Speak Hokkien Campaign == References ==
Other featural writing systems include stenographies and constructed scripts of hobbyists and fiction writers (such as Tengwar), many of which feature advanced graphic designs corresponding to phonologic properties.
The Abakada was replaced in 1976 with an expanded alphabet containing an additional 11 letters (C, CH, F, J, LL, Ñ, Q, RR, V, X, and Z) which was in turn replaced with the current 28-letter modern alphabet.
Hangul has a few vowel trigraphs, ㅙ /wɛ/ and ㅞ /we/ (from oai and uei), which are not entirely predictable.
CJK Symbols and Punctuation is a Unicode block containing symbols and punctuation used for writing the Chinese, Japanese and Korean languages.
Bullokar's alphabet Bullokar's alphabet's characters were presented in the black-letter or "gothic" writing style commonly used at the time and also in Roman type.
Zhuang languages were traditionally written with Chinese characters, but are now usually written with romanized alphabets.
the writing conventions of writing in the Arabic script for Adamawa Fulfulde were generally agreed upon and standardized by the 1990s.
Understanding that there is a direct relationship between letters and sounds enables an emergent reader to decode the pronunciation of an unknown written word and associate it with a known spoken word.
The standard covers languages used by the European Union, the European Free Trade Association, and parts of the former Soviet Union.
This referred to the improved ability of people to deduce letters if the letters were presented within a word, rather than a mix of random letters.
It was sometimes added to completed texts as a form of obelism alongside other marginalia, including the obelus.
Different groups in North Africa have different preferences of writing system, often motivated by ideology and politics.
Scheme This allows Pāṇini to refer to groups of phonemes with pratyāhāras, which consist of a phoneme-letter and an anubandha (and often the vowel a to aid pronunciation) and signify all of the intervening phonemes.
Older views on alphabetisation and standardisation A book on filing rules from 1918 gives an example showing Mc and M' treated as abbreviations, i.e.
Multiple spaces are eliminated by default in most World Wide Web content, whether or not they are associated with sentences.
History The IMWA was originally designed for describing sign language and consequently was named Sutton's Sign Symbol Sequence (SSS) by its inventor, Valerie Sutton.
Speakers of a language often privilege the spelling of words over common pronunciation, leading to a preference for, or prestige of, spelling pronunciation, with the written language affecting and changing the spoken language.
While the word phoneme refers to the sound itself, phonogram instead refers to the written representation of the sound.
Although it is technically possible to imitate it by writing a list such as 母、父、と私 ("mum, dad, and me"), this is not considered natural.
In the 1967 revision of ASCII, along with the equivalent ISO 464 code published the same year, the code point was defined to be a broken vertical bar, and the exclamation mark character was allowed to be rendered as a solid vertical bar.
Hence this rule replaces a vowel with its corresponding semivowel when followed by any vowel, and that is why dadhi together with atra makes dadhyatra.
The Manchu alphabet (Manchu: ᠮᠠᠨᠵᡠ ᡥᡝᡵᡤᡝᠨ, Möllendorff: manju hergen, Abkai: manju hergen) is the alphabet used to write the now critically endangered Manchu language.
Diple obolismene was used according to Isidore to separate sentences in comedies and tragedies, so its usage was similar to that of paragraphos.
Description In early typewriters and character encodings, a single key/code was almost always used for hyphen, minus, various dashes, and strikethrough, since they all have a similar appearance.
On the other hand, Greek, Cyrillic, Arabic and Ethiopic adopted the French "angular" quotation marks, «...».
In linguistics, the donor principle refers primarily to the observance of the original spelling of a loanword from the original ("donor") language.
Certain new spellings removed redundant letters, such as Oekraïeners to Oekraïners (same pronunciation) for Ukrainians, sometimes moving a bit further away from English, such as Zimbabweanen to Zimbabwanen (as they are commonly called in Dutch) for Zimbabweans.
The double vertical line ( || ) is used to represent the salt bridge, which is used to maintain electrical neutrality within the electrochemical cell.
Evenki itself is spelled eweŋki, despite Mongolian orthography usually prohibiting the letter combination ŋk.
Heterogram (classical compound: "different" + "written") is a term used mostly in the philology of Akkadian and Pahlavi texts containing borrowings from Sumerian and Aramaic respectively.
Though not considered genuine, there is a signature on the fly-leaf of a copy of John Florio's translation of the works of Montaigne, which reads "Willm.
Dutch spelling in the Middle Ages The Dutch spoken between 1150 and 1500 is referred to as Middle Dutch.
Unicode Unicode has a free-standing underscore _ at U+005F, inherited from ASCII, which is a legacy of the typewriter practice of underlining using backspace and overtype.
{\displaystyle {\underline {v}}=\mathbf {v} =\left[v_{1}\;v_{2}\right]^{\mathbf {T} }.} complex numbers.
The Ersu text speaks of a 'white moon', meaning the first half of the month (a black moon is the second half of the month), but it is not clear how this is indicated.
In Thai, the character fongman (๏) marks the beginning of a stanza and paiyannoi sara a (ฯ ะ) or angkhankhu sara a (๚ ะ) marks the end of a stanza.
In pre-Islamic Arabia, linguistic diversity was more common, as attested by tens of thousands of pre-Islamic Arabian inscriptions, with many languages being spoken in different regions and periods of time.
In Polish, the period can be omitted if there is no ambiguity about whether a given numeral is ordinal or cardinal.
In handwriting, these rules did not apply—the long s was usually confined to preceding a round s, either in the middle or at the end of a word—for example, aſsure, bleſsings.
Modern orthographies that lack a case distinction while using Latin characters include that used for the Saanich dialect in Canada, which uses majuscule letterforms save for a single suffix, and that used for palawa kani language in Tasmania, which uses only minuscule letterforms.
A paragraphos (Ancient Greek: παράγραφος, parágraphos, from para-, 'beside', and graphein, 'to write') was a mark in ancient Greek punctuation, marking a division in a text (as between speakers in a dialogue or drama).
In the mid-20th century, the orthography became formalized in textbooks, religious materials, and literacy campaigns, retaining close correspondence between letters and sounds.
See also Kaige revision, group of Greek-language Septuagint Bible versions that frequently use Koine Greek: και γε [kai ge] ('and indeed').
In the late 1930s the Latinization campaign was canceled and all newly romanized languages were converted to Cyrillic.
Precomposed characters exist for this method as well (/va/ ヷ /vi/ ヸ /vu/ ヴ /ve/ ヹ /vo/ ヺ), although most IMEs do not have a convenient way to enter them.
When the Islamic power took place, a modified Arabic writing system (called Pegon) was introduced, along with the massive introduction of the Latin alphabet by western colonialists.
Guillemets are a pair of punctuation marks in the form of sideways double chevrons, « and », sometimes used as quotation marks or ditto marks.
This system allows for the meditation on both principles, viewing akṣara as the formless, impersonal aspect and puruṣa as the presiding deity.
It is sometimes also called antilambda because the sign resembles a Greek capital letter lambda (Λ) turned upon its side.
Internal information Internal approaches are multi-step: one must first ensure that the writing they are looking at represents real writing, as opposed to a grouping of pictorial representations or a modern-day forgery without further meaning.
Style Opinions differ on how to render an ellipsis in printed material and are to some extent based on the technology used for rendering.
In 19th-century texts, British English and American English both frequently used the terms period and full stop.
The spelling systems for some languages, such as Spanish or Italian, are relatively simple because they adhere closely to the ideal one-to-one correspondence between sounds and the letter patterns that represent them.
Semioticians not only study what a symbol implies but also how it got its meaning and how it functions to make meaning in society.
Sometimes progress is animated with an ellipse-like construct of repeatedly adding dots to a label in a manner similar to a progress bar.
Another online tool that very closely supports the old Remington keyboard layout using Kruti Dev is the Remington Typing tool.
Writing is done with a bamboo brush or animal hair dipped in white, black, red, blue, green, and yellow-colored ink.
While ⟨c⟩, ⟨q⟩, ⟨w⟩, and ⟨z⟩ are found on the Icelandic keyboard, they are rarely used in Icelandic; they are used in some proper names of Icelanders, mainly family names (family names are the exception in Iceland).
This list includes only a few homophones although incorrect use of homophones is a very common error; the following words from the list are all correct English words, though often incorrectly used in place of their homophones: Spell checkers do not detect incorrect use of homophones.
In December 2019, when Richards was 95, he announced that the society was shutting down, saying that, despite its efforts, "fewer organisations and individuals are now caring about the correct use of the apostrophe".
Registered trademarks are indicated using the registered trademark symbol, ®, and in many jurisdictions it is unlawful or illegal to use the registered trademark symbol with a mark that has not been registered.
800–600 BC giving rise to many different alphabets used to write the Italic languages, like the Etruscan alphabet.
Other languages, more sparsely, have also been documented, likely as a result of trade and travel with nearby regions.
Guinea language orthography The Guinea alphabet made use of several digraphs (including either "h" or "y" as the second letter), some of which represent consonants not present in European languages, and two diacritics (grave accent and diaeresis) for open vowels.
The wide use of Roman capitals as a "house style" dominating design in the first half of the twentieth century was limited to the UK; Nicolete Gray commented in 1960 that "it has been a purely English movement, and one sees no traces of it on the Continent.
Arabic kāf The letter is named kāf, and it is written in several ways depending on its position in the word.
The Armenian, Azerbaijani, Kurdish, Malayalam, Persian, Sogdian and Turkish languages have all been written at some point in Syriac script.
The double hyphen is also not to be confused with two consecutive hyphens (--), which are often used to represent an em dash — or en dash – due to the limitations of typewriters and keyboards that do not have distinct hyphen and dash keys.
Another use of hyphens is that employed by programs written with pipelining in mind: a single hyphen may be recognized in lieu of a filename, with the hyphen then serving as an indicator that a standard stream, instead of a file, is to be worked with.
Notable examples of square capitals used for inscriptions are found on the Roman Pantheon, Trajan's Column, and the Arch of Titus, all in Rome.
Those formed with -ów, -owy, -in, and -yn may be spelled with either an upper-case letter or a lower-case letter, e.g.
In standard sort, 1.2.10 precedes 1.2.2; in version sort, the segments are parsed individually, correctly placing 1.2.10 after 1.2.2.
One issue that the society intervened in more than once was the tendency of businesses originally named after people not to include apostrophes in their names.
(Compare the similar umlaut process in English man/men.) In other cases, the grammatical suffix that causes i-affection remains, such as in cleifion, plural of claf "patient (n.)".
Since typewriters were mechanical and could not include a script processor engine, each character had to be placed on the keyboard separately, which resulted in a very complex and difficult to learn keyboard layout.
Instead, the 'magic e' is dropped (unless it indicates soft or hard ⟨c⟩ or ⟨g⟩, then the consonant is doubled).
It represented an iron roasting spit, a dart, or the sharp end of a javelin, symbolizing the skewering or cutting out of dubious matter.
Relationship to cryptanalysis Decipherment overlaps with another technical field known as cryptanalysis, a field that aims to decipher writings used in secret communication, known as ciphertext.
Originally, both North Korean and South Korean Hangul script was based on the Unified Plan promulgated in 1933 under the Japanese.
Crown Letters and Punctuation and Their Placements (Arabic: حروف التاج وعلامات الترقيم ومواضع استعمالها) is a manifesto published by the Egyptian Ministry of Education and written by Abdulqader Aashour in 1932.
All three alphabetization methods are fairly easy to create by algorithm, but many programs rely on simple lexicographic ordering instead.
In the 1920s, Man Ray, who was influenced by Dada, created an early work of wordless writing with his poem Paris, Mai 1924.
Any given letter can be displayed as upper-case or lower-case according to the font design, unlike an all-caps display or use of small-caps for lower-case, but the same character is always displayed in that same case.
In the 18th century, separate Even words were published by Jacob Johann Lindenau (ru), and also in the comparative dictionary P.
Japanese calligraphers subsequently expanded upon Chinese abstract calligraphic expression by Hitsuzendō (the way of Zen through brush), allowing their works to move past formal presentation and "breathe with the vitality of eternal experience".
His discussion of vowel pronunciations is particularly interesting to historians of the English language, because it documents the spoken English at an intermediate point during the Great Vowel Shift, which during Hart's days was radically transforming the vowel system of English.
From an analysis of these and other data the first 4 epistles (Romans, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, and Galatians) form a consistent group, and all the other epistles lie more than 2 standard deviations from the mean of this group (using χ 2 {\displaystyle \chi ^{2}} statistics).
The German pentagraph ⟨tzsch⟩ has largely been replaced by ⟨tsch⟩, remaining only in proper names such as ⟨Pönitzsch⟩ or ⟨Nietzsche⟩.
With the arrival of Christian missionaries and soon after the invasion of European powers, mostly the French and English, came the introduction of the Latin script to Fula-speaking regions of West and Central Africa.
386-390 See also History of English grammars English-language spelling reform Bibliography Bullokar, William (1977).
Syllabograms in syllabaries are analogous to letters in alphabets, which represent individual phonemes, or logograms in logographies, which represent morphemes.
This is known as the ‘dual system’ in Paleohispanic scripts, which otherwise do not distinguish between pairs of voiceless and voiced stops (p:b, t:d and k:g).
As late as 1699, more than a century after the Spanish conquest, Spaniards continued studying the Kapampangan language and writing system.
Parenthetical expressions are usually delimited by round brackets (also known as parentheses), square brackets, dashes, or commas.
He also talks about diple peri strichon (or sticon), which was used to draw attention to separate concepts, and diple periestigmene used (like obelos) to mark dubious passages.
However, as double-entry needs to be carried out by two separate data entry officers, the expenses associated with double data entry are substantial.
HTML 2 (1995) incorporated the "&shy;" character entity from SGML, but explicitly discouraged its use.
A work-around to simulate real small capitals is to use a bolder version of the small caps generated by such systems, to match well with the normal weights of capitals and lowercase, especially when such small caps are extended about 5% or letter-spaced a half point or a point.
Geresh (׳‎ in Hebrew: גֶּרֶשׁ‎ or גֵּרֶשׁ‎ [ˈɡeʁeʃ], or medieval [ˈɡeːɾeːʃ]) is a sign in Hebrew writing.
There are always "common-sense" country-specific exceptions to digit grouping, such as year numbers, postal codes, and ID numbers of predefined nongrouped format, which style guides usually point out.
There is general agreement that SL is beneficial for all early literacy learners, especially those with reading disabilities such as dyslexia.
When the Chinese text is romanized, the partition sign is simply replaced by a standard space or other appropriate punctuation.
The triple parentheses have since been used on social networking services such as Twitter by antisemites, alt-righters, neo-Nazis, and white nationalists as a signal to target Jews for harassment.
(interesting move).) See also Percontation point (⸮) Inverted question and exclamation marks (¿¡) References == External links ==
The criteria for the use of ideographic runes and the frequency of their use by ancient rune-writers remains controversial.
This way one could differentiate, for example, between Serbian written in the Cyrillic (sr-Cyrl) or Latin (sr-Latn) script, or mark romanized or transliterated text as such.
Papiamentu in Bonaire and Curaçao is different from Papiamento in Aruba in the following ways: Papiamento in Aruba uses a more etymological spelling, so Papiamento uses ⟨c⟩ in native words outside of the digraph ⟨ch⟩, but Papiamentu in Bonaire and Curaçao does not.
HTML's ordered list tag <ol> supports the CSS property list-style-type=hiragana-iroha to label the list elements with the Iroha kana instead of the default Arabic numerals..
In the eye-movement study by Tinker and Patterson, the principal difference in oculomotor patterns between lower case and all capitals was the very large increase in number of fixation pauses for reading the all-capital print.
In Unicode, the dotted circle (◌) is a non-significant typographic character used to illustrate the effect of a combining mark, such as a diacritic mark.
Syllabograms in the Maya script most frequently take the form of V (vowel) or CV (consonant-vowel) syllables of which approximately 83 are known.
This was an alphabetic cuneiform script with 30 signs, including three that indicate the following vowel.
Specific irony marks have been proposed (sometimes as jokes, sometimes seriously), such as in the form of an open upward arrow (), used by Marcellin Jobard in the 19th century, and in a form resembling a reversed question mark (), proposed by French poet Alcanter de Brahm during the 19th century.
The broad implementation of the extended ASCII ISO/IEC 8859 series in the 1990s also made a distinction between the two forms.
The Elements of Style notes an exception to the semicolon rule, preferring a comma when the clauses are "very short and alike in form," or when the sentence's tone is "easy and conversational." For example: The gate swung apart, the bridge fell, the portcullis was drawn up.
For example, an author might write dat as an attempt at accurate transcription of a nonstandard pronunciation of that.
Analogous to the square bracket notation [a] used for phones, glyphs are sometimes denoted with vertical lines, e.g.
If it was not practical to complete the rubrication, books might be sold with the spaces before the paragraphs left blank, thus creating the typographical practice of indentation.
He continued his advocacy of poetic reform in On Ancient, Middle, and New Russian Poetry (O drevney, sredney i novoy rossiyskoy poyezii) in 1752.
The 'apologetic' or parochial apostrophe is the distinctive use of apostrophes in some Modern Scots spelling.
Discontinuous (split) trigraphs The sequence of letters making up a phoneme are not always adjacent.
Rolbiidorj exercises with numerals of up to 1066, the last number which he called “setgeshgui” or “unimaginable” referring to the concept of infinity.
Within each example sentence, the parenthetical phrase is the portion that is displayed in an italic font.
Since the asterisk resembles a star, when used for this function, the asterisk is referred to as the Gendersternchen; literally, "little gender star".
In written English usage, a comma splice or comma fault is the use of a comma to join two independent clauses.
In the 1980s desktop publishing software provided the average writer with more advanced formatting tools.
In addition to the unusual spelling system used the manuscript is notable for several other reasons.
Róna-Tas attempted to read the Szarvas relic in Turkic instead of Hungarian, but wrote that his transcription needed further improvement.
For representation in electronic texts the kai symbol has its own Unicode positions: GREEK KAI SYMBOL (U+03D7) and GREEK CAPITAL KAI SYMBOL (U+03CF).
Hebrew kaf Hebrew spelling: כַּף‎ Hebrew pronunciation The letter kaf is one of the six letters that can receive a dagesh kal.
The word ideogram has historically often been used to describe Egyptian hieroglyphs, Sumerian cuneiform, and Chinese characters.
It should also not be confused with determining the meaning of ambiguous text in a known language (interpretation).
They revised the abakada in Kapampangan writing, removing the ⟨w⟩ which was similarly absent in Spanish, and the acento grave.
Some of the usages of full stops are: Ending sentences Full stops indicate the end of declarative sentences, in contrast to questions or exclamations.
The cantillation accent however is generally not typed, as it plays a completely different role and can occur in the middle of words (it does not mark any word separation), or marked using a different interlinear notation if needed (such as superscripts or other notational symbols).
As word recognition is better understood, more reliable and efficient forms of teaching may be discovered for both children and adult learners of first-language literacy.
History Antiquity Square capitals were used to write inscriptions, and less often to supplement everyday handwriting as Latin book hand.
oidheanna "fates", sroigheall "scourge", broigheall "cormorant", oigheann "oven", oighear "ice", poigheachán "(snail)shell".
Security issues Soft hyphens, like other invisible characters, have been used to obscure malicious domains or URLs in e-mail spam.
(In some typefaces, one or other or both of these characters are designed in these styles; they are not produced by overstrike or by combining diacritic.
It in turn has several application areas within which it is specialised: SignWriting, for sign languages, the most developed so far.
The HTML element name for a bulleted list is "unordered list", because the list items are not arranged in numerical order (as they would be in a numbered list).
His goal was to introduce a spelling system with a one-to-one relationship between sounds and symbols ("to vse as many letters in our writing, as we doe voyces or breathes in speaking, and no more ").
This became so popular that it remained in print and established itself as a standard text for almost a century.
Arts and Crafts movement In the 19th and 20th centuries, they were a major inspiration for artisans of the Arts and Crafts movement such as Edward Johnston and Eric Gill, and so many signs and engravings created with an intentionally artistic design in the twentieth century are based on them.
Exempted from change are certain very common short-vowelled words which end in a single 's' (such as das, es), echoing other undoubled final consonants in German (e.g.
This usage was not universal, and a long followed by a short s is sometimes seen even mid-word (e.g., Miſsiſsippi).
With Nsimbi, Chesswas went on to produce An explanation of the Standard Orthography of Luganda; first written for The Eagle Press in 1958, and published as a book in 1963, with second, third and fourth (1985) editions.
Nothing similar was available for the double quote, so many people resorted to using two single quotes for double quotes, which would look approximately like the following: The typesetting application TeX uses this convention for input files.
Use within programming languages Some case styles are not used in standard English, but are common in computer programming, product branding, or other specialised fields.
When (after the unification of 1864) Valaoritis moved to Athens to take a seat in the national Greek Parliament, his high reputation went with him; and when in 1872 the university commissioned him to write a commemorative poem, it described his language as "sweetly spoken and entirely national".
In 1908, its name changed to HaOr, and it was shut down by the Ottoman government during World War I due its support for a homeland for the Jewish people in the Land of Israel/Palestine.
For instance, when putting URLs or other material containing ampersands into XML format files such as RSS files the & must be replaced with &amp; or they are considered not well formed, and computers will be unable to read the files correctly.
In understanding the relationship between the northeastern and southeastern Iberian scripts, some note that they are two distinct scripts with different values assigned to the same signs.
Aspirates ے (waddi ye) is only found in the final position, when writing the sounds e (ਏ) or æ (ਐ), and in initial and medial positions, it takes the form of ی.
Charles Butler (1571 – 29 March 1647), sometimes called the Father of English Beekeeping, was a logician, grammarian, author, priest (Vicar of Wootton St Lawrence, near Basingstoke, England), and an influential beekeeper.
See also Asterism (disambiguation) (other uses of the word) Dingbat – Typographic symbol class Ellipsis – Triple-dot punctuation mark Signature mark – Mark identifying a section in bookbinding == References ==
It is called a "parenthetical" phrase even when it is not delimited by any brackets (such as round – [or square] – brackets).
For example, in the English word high, ⟨igh⟩ is a grapheme representing the phoneme —while ⟨igh⟩ is written using three letters potentially treated as distinct in other contexts, they cannot be analyzed separately in this case, as the intended sound is only indicated when read as a single unit.
They wrote in a form of the Aramaic alphabet, which continued to evolve; it separated into two forms: one intended for inscriptions (known as "monumental Nabataean") and the other, more cursive and hurriedly written and with joined letters, for writing on papyrus.
Usage The double hyphen is used for several different purposes throughout the world: Some typefaces, such as Fraktur faces, use the double hyphen as a glyphic variant of the single hyphen.
Wiki markup A list item on a wiki page is indicated using one or more leading asterisks in wiki markup.
Now we are engaged in a grait civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceeved, and so deddicated, can long endure.
It uses a modified Latin script adapted to represent Tumbuka phonology and Mwangwego script as its native writing system developed by Nolence Mwangwego.
Contemporary systems like musical and mathematical notation, computer icons, and emoji have also been characterized as semasiographies.
There is no agreement about how the Paleohispanic semi-syllabaries originated; some researchers conclude that they derive only from the Phoenician alphabet, while others believe the Greek alphabet was also involved.
A phonogram or phonograph (from Ancient Greek phōnḗ 'sound' + grắphō 'writing') is a basic unit of writing (or grapheme) that represents a sound used when speaking a particular language, like a phoneme or syllable.
The Navajo language is a complex language system that relies on relatively subtle phonetics, including distinct tones and nasalization.
These stroke orders are most conservative regarding etymology, character construction, character evolution, and tradition.
Origin and name The English word pilcrow derives from the Ancient Greek: παράγραφος [parágraphos], "written in the side" or "written in the margin".
Constructed languages The three most spoken international auxiliary languages, Ido, Esperanto, and Interlingua, all use the comma as the decimal separator.
Because that means something else than przyjdzi, przyjmi, as when I say przejdzi przez tę rzékę, przéjmi moje konie rć.
It was a development of the earlier double oblique hyphen ⸗, which developed from a Central European variant of the virgule slash, originally a form of scratch comma.
(體 would never, for instance, be mistaken for 休.) Furthermore, even when it comes to handwriting, a majority of people resort to semi-cursive script by abbreviating strokes or form to save time, thereby circumventing the problem of slower handwriting.
The glyph was transposed into Unicode from the original IBM PC character set, Code page 437, where it had the code point F916 (24910).
This can be contrasted with the older way of abbreviating et cetera, namely &c., where ⟨&⟩ is used to represent et as a full loanword, not a heterogram.
They are a writer's assault on his or her own words." Scare quotes have been described as ubiquitous, and the use of them as expressing distrust in truth, reality, facts, reason, and objectivity.
A related edition, including Shakespeare's text from the Cambridge Shakespeare but without the scholarly apparatus, was issued in 1864 as "The Globe Edition".
The table below is a summary of the proposals and decisions (made by the indigenous peoples and linguists).
Microsoft added the single guillemets to CP1252 and similar sets used in Windows at 0x8B and 0x9B (139 and 155) (where the ISO standard placed C1 control codes).
Tones Tone is written as in the IPA, with the addition of a vertical mark for mid-low tone: ⟨á ā a̍ à, â ǎ⟩ etc.
From 1803 he was the member, then secretary, of the head-office of that university's literary faculty.
The JAC consists of six members: one representative of the RA (Markus Scherer), one representative of ISO 639-2 (Randall K.
Air quotes are often used to express satire, sarcasm, irony or euphemism and are analogous to scare quotes in print.
In astronomy, the prefix Σ is used to designate double stars of the Catalogus Novus Stellarum Duplicium by Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve.
While it is true that the presence of digraphs with ⟨h⟩ in Latin inspired the Goidelic usage, their allocation to phonemes is based entirely on the internal logic of the Goidelic languages.
In Great Britain and many other parts of the world, punctuation is usually placed within quotation marks only if it is part of what is being quoted or referred to: My mother gave me the nickname "Bobby Bobby Bob Bob Boy", which really made me angry.
In MacOS When using the US keyboard, a bullet point character can be produced by pressing 8 while keeping Option(Alt) pressed.
The reform resulted in some economy in writing and typesetting, due to the exclusion of Ъ at the end of words—by the reckoning of Lev Uspensky, text in the new orthography was shorter by one-thirtieth.
Attention generated National Punctuation Day has been recognized nationally in the US media and in celebrations by people of all ages.
The combining characters are rarely used in full-width Japanese characters, as Unicode and all common multibyte Japanese encodings provide precomposed glyphs for all possible dakuten and handakuten character combinations in the standard hiragana and katakana ranges.
The pre-1989 alphabet was based on the simple Latin alphabet with digraphs for the sounds particular to Pular as opposed to unique letters.
To generate a letter with a tilde diacritic requires the US international or UK extended keyboard setting.
ב, כ, פ), Šin Smalít (שׂ) and mappíq (הּ), while abandoning all other vowel dots (in everyday writing).
Mandarin Chinese In the Cyrillization of Mandarin, there are digraphs цз and чж, which correspond to Pinyin z/j and zh.
The titles of a number of songs by Black Country band Slade, starting with "Coz I Luv You", are written in a Black Country pronunciation.
Kanji is a writing system that makes use of morphograms, where Chinese characters were borrowed to represent native morphemes because of their meanings.
Both Adobe Postscript and the X Window System misspelled the symbol as "guillemot" (a type of seabird) and wrote these misspellings into symbols used in computer file formats so they cannot be fixed.
Homogeneous digraph Digraphs may consist of two different characters (heterogeneous digraphs) or two instances of the same character (homogeneous digraphs).
In five East African countries (Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Somalia, and the de facto country of Somaliland), where the national currencies are denominated in shillings, the decimal separator is a slash mark (e.g., 2/50).
Non-stylistic ligatures, however, such as ⟨æ⟩, are distinct graphemes, as are various letters with distinctive diacritics, such as ⟨ç⟩.
Punctuation The Manchu alphabet has two kinds of punctuation: two dots (᠉), analogous to a period; and one dot (᠈), analogous to a comma.
Rules once used for filing have been dropped for some newer computer systems, and the interfiling of Mac and Mc names is an example, according to a 2006 book.
When used in legal text, the dinkus indicates an abbreviation within amendments to code while not implying the repeal of the omitted sections.
Misspellings of French words outside the French language occur often and account for part of the etymology of some modern loanwords in English, such as English "caddie".
Early alphabets The first attempts at writings in the Even language were published by Nicolaas Witsen in 1692.
This marked the establishment of Baptist Church in Mizoram and Serkawn remains the centre of its administration to this day.
Originally, use of the two forms was mutually exclusive, but it became a common compromise to use both in tandem, which ultimately had additional benefits in areas such as legibility.
Among them are the lead plaque from Gador (Almería) and the lead plaque from La Bastida de les Alcuses (Moixent, Valencia).
When the unit names are spelled out, this recommendation does not apply: a 25-kilogram sphere, a roll of 35-millimetre film.
Mundi was a merchant script used by Marwari and Gujarati businessmen and bookkeepers for recording accounts and correspondences.
Many nouns have irregular plurals, such as jù (person, plural jú), and the plural form of a noun is not predictable.
International auxiliary language orthography (IAL orthography) is often simplified when compared with natural language orthography.
The practice dates to the period of typewriters, which generally did not offer bold text, small capitals, or the opportunity to add marginal notes emphasising key points.
C3: A sequence of three or more consonants between two vowels is hyphenated with the succeeding vowel, if a Greek word exists that begins with the sequence of the first two consonants.
Journalist Jay Hathaway wrote that most of dril's followers understood the tweet to be an ironic joke exploring the uncertain "etiquette around this very 2016 expression of bigotry ...
Primary source 19th and 20th century manuscripts from the Naxi people, Yunnan Province, China; only pictographic writing system still in use anywhere in the world.
Choice of graphemes The principal feature of Congress Spelling is the representation of a phoneme with a grapheme or a single letter only.
It is a term used in the traditional grammar of the Sanskrit language and in the Vedanta school of Indian philosophy.
Proper names Although not part of dictionary words, exclamation marks appear in some brand names and trade names, including Yum!
Sorting both under "Mc" is generally avoided as it can cause issues with names that do not contain the prefix (such as Macclesfield or Macey).
See also Anglo-Saxon paganism Bhagavan (Hindi word) El (deity) (Semitic word) Elohim Jumala (Finnish word) Tanri (Turkish word) Yahweh YHWH Allah References External links Use of guþ n the Gothic Bible.
Vowel harmony, which occurs in varying degrees in languages all around the world, notably Turkic languages.
For example, a brief occupation of South Arabia by the Ethiopian Aksumite kingdom led to the presence of a few Ethiopic inscriptions attested in South Arabia.
His name is most likely Abu Imran, Moshe ben David ben Naphtali as preserved in Mishael ben Uzziel's 11th century treatise and in the Cairo Geniza fragment T-S K27.36 in the University Library at Cambridge.
Gershayim (Hebrew: גֵּרְשַׁיִם, without niqqud גרשיים), also occasionally grashayim (גְּרָשַׁיִם), can refer to either of two distinct typographical marks in the Hebrew language.
External links [1] Paper by Paul Kiparsky on 'Economy and the Construction of the Śiva sūtras' [2] Paper by András Kornai relating the Śiva sūtras to contemporary Feature Geometry.
Some German publications, especially dictionaries, also use a Warenzeichen grapheme, (U+1F12E 🄮 CIRCLED WZ), which is informative and independent of the actual protection status of the name.
The coronis was generally placed in the left-hand margin of the text and was often accompanied by a paragraphos or a forked paragraphos (diple obelismene).
The official Latin-based alphabet, which was used in book publishing and school education, was thus: Cyrillic In 1937, like many other alphabets used by peoples of the USSR, the Evenki alphabet was changed to a Cyrillic-based one.
In some typefaces, this letter has a very similar appearance to the letter ⟨f⟩ (lowercase F), distinguished only by the width of the crossbar.
On the mainland, the First Athenian School of literature had been concentrating on Katharevousa since 1830; but in the Islands the Heptanesian tradition of Demotic poetry associated with Dionysios Solomos lived on, and some were still prepared to argue for the written use of the spoken language.
Early life Heffernan was born at the sacred site of Werlatye Atherre, just north of the Alice Springs Telegraph Station, and is part of the Caterpillar Dreaming.
The vowel triggering the change was often later lost; for example, the plural of Welsh bardd "bard, poet" is beirdd, from *bardī with i-affection.
History The Sinckan Manuscripts are one of the earliest written materials of several Formosan languages, including Siraya and Taivoan.
Maunoir continued his theological studies in Bourges under Louis Lallemant, followed by a year in Rouen, some missionary work in Normandy, and a year of teaching literature at the College of Nevers.
The two books of the manuscript can basically be divided by the general theme of the verse found within them.
Historically, the dinkus was often represented as an asterism, ⁂, though this has fallen out of favor and is now nearly obsolete.
Malay Language Association of University of Malaya generally rejects the use of digraphs and vehemently promotes the Indonesian spelling elements.
The phrase "to dot the i's and cross the t's" is used figuratively to mean "to put the finishing touches to" or "to be thorough".
There are just under two hundred surviving inscriptions, one of which is exceptionally long: the third Botorrita bronze plaque (Zaragoza) with more than three thousand signs containing a census of nearly 250 people.
Other languages that use ⟨th⟩ for /θ/ include Albanian and Welsh, both of which treat it as a distinct letter and alphabetize it between ⟨t⟩ and ⟨u⟩.
In Maltese, two digraphs are used, ⟨għ⟩ which comes right after ⟨g⟩, and ⟨ie⟩ which comes right after ⟨i⟩.
Similarly, understanding the relationship of letters and sounds is also seen as a critical heuristic for learning to spell.
Other Tengwar typefaces with this encoding include Johan Winge's Tengwar Annatar, Måns Björkman's Tengwar Parmaitë, Enrique Mombello's Tengwar Élfica or Michal Nowakowski's Tengwar Formal (note that these differ in some details).
Terminology Guillemets are also called French quotes, French quotation marks, angle quotation marks, or duckfoot quotes.
Following independence, the government of Guinea adopted rules of transcription for the languages of Guinea based on the characters and diacritic combinations available on typewriters of that period.
It was an adoption of the Portuguese tilde, and should not be confused with the tone mark ngã, which is encoded as a tilde in Unicode (and in Vietnamese derivatives of ISO-8859-1 such as VISCII, VPS or Windows-1258), despite actually being an adoption of the Greek perispomeni.
This is because the Hebrew script is an abjad, that is, its letters indicate consonants, not vowels or syllables.
These new rules were slow to be adopted: there are 19th-century books in which the printer uses neither "¡" nor "¿".
'a Geresh made earlier'), a variant cantillation mark, is also printed above the accented letter, but slightly before (i.e.
The ASCII character set, which has been used on a wide variety of computers since the 1960s, contains the straight versions only (U+0027 ' APOSTROPHE and U+0022 " QUOTATION MARK).
He was regarded as a pioneer in the development of the writing of the Luganda language, and held prominent positions in the Ugandan colonial government of the day.
In premodern Shilha orthography, two extra letters were added to the alphabet to represent consonants not represented by the Standard Arabic alphabet: a kāf with three dots ݣ‎ for g, and ṣād with three dots ڞ‎ for ẓ (dots may also be added underneath the letter).
In many contexts, when a number is spoken, the function of the separator is assumed by the spoken name of the symbol: comma or point in most cases.
In his own composition, l'Italia liberata dai Goti (1547–1548), dealing with the campaigns of Belisarius in Italy, he sought to show that it was possible to write in the vernacular an epic in accordance with the classic precepts.
Additionally, the letter "i" is used after these nine consonants if it appears at the end of an uninflected loanword, such as колібрі, парі, фрі, and таксі, though таксист is an exception to this rule.
Digraphs Although most IALs eschew digraphs, there are some IALs that use digraphs: Interlingua: ch, qu, ph, sh Ido: ch, qu, sh Novial: ch, sh Esperanto H-system: ch (for ĉ), gh (for ĝ), hh (for ĥ), jh (for ĵ), and sh (for ŝ).
By 1683, he had formed almost 1,000 Breton missionaries, who carried on the pastoral works that he had begun.
Pierre Chantraine concurs and derives the word from κορώνη (korōnē), "crow", assigning the meaning of the epithet's use in reference to the textual symbol to the same semantic range of "curve".
BOSS BOSS linux was developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) to promote use of open-source software in India.
A transcription error is a specific type of data entry error that is commonly made by human operators or by optical character recognition (OCR) programs.
Semiotics studies focus on the relationship of the signifier and the signified, also taking into account the interpretation of visual cues, body language, sound, and other contextual clues.
However, this can lead to errors when a similarly spelled, yet different word, is mistaken for one the reader is familiar with.
X-digraphs solve those problems of the h-system: X is not a letter in the Esperanto alphabet, so its use introduces no ambiguity.
In spelled-out fractions, hyphens are usually used when the fraction is used as an adjective but not when it is used as a noun: thus two-thirds majority and one-eighth portion but I drank two thirds of the bottle or I kept three quarters of it for myself.
Decimals and Version Numbers: A variation of natural sort, often called version sort, is designed to handle multiple numeric segments separated by dots (e.g., 1.2.10 vs 1.2.2).
Meanwhile, some lettering artists who do create artistic work have switched to other more expressive styles, including sans-serifs.
Influences on asemic writing are illegible, invented, or primal scripts (cave paintings, doodles, children's drawings, etc.).
Cyrillic alphabet In 1937, the Nivkh alphabet, like the alphabets of other peoples of the Far North and Far East of the USSR, was officially transferred to the Cyrillic basis - the Russian alphabet with an apostrophe, but without the letters Щ щ, Ъ ъ, Ы ы.
These "slipped-hat" conventions make use of the caret (^) or greater than sign (>) to represent the circumflex.
It was introduced to make texts for scholars easier to read and comprehend, a necessary function for the more technical concepts introduced by Aristotle.
In contemporary Sweden, runes carried many regional names and variations, thus a name like 'God' for the g-rune is not unrealistic, despite the text being in Old Danish or Old Scanian.
In Hungarian, the trigraph dzs is treated as a distinct letter, with its own place in the alphabet, and it is pronounced like the English j /dʒ/.
Amounts in full pounds, shillings and pence could be written in many different ways, for example: £1 9s 6d, £1.9.6, £1-9-6, and even £1/9/6d (with a slash used also to separate pounds and shillings).
The acute accent is used to add emphasis in the same way as underlining or writing in bold or italics in English, for example Dit is jóú boek (It is your book).
Garg, the merchants of India used special scripts and each region had its own particular name for their script, such as Mundi, Modi, Mudiya, Mahajani, and Sarafi.
If A is ordered before B, there is a counterbleeding relationship if B destroys the environment that A applies to and has already applied and so B has missed its chance to bleed A.
Joe Martin introduced the term featural notation to describe writing systems that include symbols to represent individual features rather than phonemes.
For example: the root of תַּשְׁבֵּצִים/taʃbeˈtsim/ "crossword puzzles" is שב״צ (š—b—ṣ); the root of לְהַטּוֹת /lehaˈtot/ "to tilt, to conjugate" is נט״ה‎ (n—ṭ—h); and the root of הִסְתַּנְכְּרְנוּת /histankreˈnut/ "being synchronized" is סנכר״נ (s–n–k–r–n).
From the 1980s, the Mongolian script was reintroduced into schools for its historical and cultural importance.
Many errors are caused by homonyms; for example, French contains hundreds of words ending with IPA [εn] written as -ène, -en, -enne or -aine.
Finally, the representation of the second rhotic, which in several dialects has been merged with /r/, tends to vary between ř, rr, and rh, and sometimes even gh, with the first two being the most frequently found variants.
↑↑↑↑ Turkmen had a slightly different alphabet in 1993–1995 (which used some rare letters) ⟨ý⟩ was written as ⟨ÿ⟩ (capital ⟨¥⟩), ⟨ň⟩ as ⟨ñ⟩, ⟨ş⟩ as ⟨¢⟩ (capital ⟨$⟩), and ⟨ž⟩ as ⟨⌠⟩ (capital ⟨£⟩) (so that all characters were available in Code page 437).
The term also may refer to the use of uppercase letters in general, or the choice between uppercase and lowercase.
Her conventions of usage were not ours." The author and journalist Lynne Truss writes in Eats, Shoots & Leaves that "so many highly respected writers observe the splice comma that a rather unfair rule emerges on this one: only do it if you're famous." Citing Samuel Beckett, E.
Using this program, kindergarten and 1st-grade students progressed much faster in reading skills than students receiving business-as-usual instruction.
On the other hand, if morpheme of the first syllable uses vowels other than ⟨e⟩ and ⟨o⟩, the morpheme bound to the final syllable must use vowels ⟨i⟩ and ⟨u⟩.
In linear logic, the exclamation mark denotes one of the modalities that control weakening and contraction.
See also Formosan languages Taiwanese indigenous peoples Languages of Taiwan References Further reading External links Taiwanese Indigenous Ebooks Archived 2022-03-03 at the Wayback Machine: This site provides open access ebooks for the indigenous languages.
Ten specific nouns that begin with "ʔ": اسم, است, ابن/ابنة, اثنان/اثنتان, امرؤ/امرأة, اَيمن الله/اَيْم الله.
There are some exceptions; for instance, interrogatives are formed using the particle ré, which is placed immediately after the subject, but it is also possible to place this emphasis on the object by moving it to the beginning of the sentence and following it with ré instead, as in: Tjù ré mí ho.
Although government and educational establishments are required to conform, some newspapers and other publications in the Netherlands are refusing to use the new spelling and have released Het Witte Boekje (The White Booklet) as an alternative to the latest edition of Het Groene Boekje.
It referred to the letters by adding a vowel—usually ⟨e⟩, sometimes ⟨a⟩ or ⟨u⟩—before or after the consonant.
Scare quotes (also called shudder quotes or sneer quotes) are quotation marks that writers place around a word or phrase to signal that they are using it in an ironic, referential, or otherwise non-standard sense.
It originally represented an affricate [t͡s], which arose from the combinations ⟨t⟩+⟨s⟩, ⟨d⟩+⟨s⟩, ⟨ð⟩+⟨s⟩; however, in modern Icelandic, it came to be pronounced [s], and since it was a letter that was not commonly used, it was decided in 1973 to replace all instances of ⟨z⟩ with ⟨s⟩.
Stéphane Grivelet, who edited a special "Digraphia: Writing systems and society" issue of the International Journal of the Sociology of Language, explains.
Hervé Bazin, in his essay "Plumons l'Oiseau" ("Let's pluck the bird", 1966), used the Greek letter ψ with a dot below for the same purpose ().
The hexagraph ⟨oidhea⟩, for example, represents the same sound (approximately the vowel in English "write") as the trigraph adh, and with the same effect on neighboring consonants.
Most national and international languages have an established writing system that has undergone substantial standardization, thus exhibiting less dialect variation than the spoken language.
Pazend () or Pazand (Middle Persian: 𐭯𐭠𐭰𐭭𐭣; Avestan: 𐬞𐬀𐬌𐬙𐬌⸱ 𐬰𐬀𐬌𐬥𐬙𐬌) is one of the writing systems used for the Middle Persian language.
(In fact, ⟨hv⟩ etymologically corresponds to Latin ⟨qu⟩ and English ⟨wh⟩ in words inherited from Proto-Indo-European: Icelandic hvað, Latin quod, English what.) ⟨z⟩ (seta, [ˈsɛːta]) was used until 1973, when it was abolished, as it was only an etymological detail.
Language-specific conventions Languages which use an extended Latin alphabet generally have their own conventions for treatment of the extra letters.
Superscript numerals have increasingly been used in modern literature in the place of these symbols because it results in a transparent and consistent order to the notes.
This premodern orthography has remained virtually unchanged since at least the end of the 16th century, and is still used today in circles of traditional Islamic scholars (ṭṭlba).
Affection (also known as vowel affection, infection or vowel mutation), in the linguistics of the Celtic languages, is the change in the quality of a vowel under the influence of the vowel of the following final syllable.
In general writing, some words are frequently misspelled, such as the incorrect spelling "concensus" for "consensus" found in numerous webpages.
In many cases, however, the empty tailoring—where no weightings are changed—is appropriate, as different languages have incompatible ordering requirements.
Since there are not enough places in ISO 8859-1's 191 codepoints for all the signs used in Tengwar orthography, certain signs are included in a "Tengwar A" font which also maps its characters on ISO 8859-1, overlapping with the first font.
To make it clear that both genders are included, one could use a three word phrase with the masculine and feminine versions of the noun joined by und ("and"), e.g.
Finally a permit was issued and they immediately set off on Tlawng River in a canoe on Boxing Day of 1893.
Although not universally accepted, the brushed-origin thesis had been proposed in the nineteenth century.
On the other hand, alongside Persian, Sultan Walad also wrote more poems in Turkish, and also more Greek poems.
The petite-capital characters defined by Unicode for letters of the basic Latin alphabet are as follows.
The newly created top apps have support for multiple Indian languages and/or promote Indian language content.
Later a great number of Tolkien's constructed languages were written using the Tengwar, including Sindarin.
The legacy of the New Korean Orthography lies in North Korea's modern use of Hangul, which reflects morphology more than pronunciation as it does in the South.
Influence of Christianity God entered English when the language still had a system of grammatical gender.
Business, finance, and economics In finance, σ is the symbol used to represent volatility of stocks, usually measured by the standard deviation of logarithmic returns.
Likewise, the Juu languages have been claimed to have a heptagraph ⟨dtsʼkxʼ⟩, but this is also a sequence, of ⟨dtsʼ⟩ and ⟨kxʼ⟩.
For instance, it may appear like this image: Since only the presentation of the text is styled, no actual case transformation is applied and readers are still able to copy the original plain text from the webpage.
In later printings of the King James Version, the double vertical bar is irregularly used to mark any comment in the margins.
Leibniz wrote about the alphabet of human thought and Alexander von Humboldt corresponded with Peter Stephen Du Ponceau who proposed a universal phonetic alphabet.
Once the prevalent style, it is now mostly used in countries of the Maghreb in ceremonial situations or for writing Qur'an, with the exception of Libya and Algeria, which adopted the Mashriqi form (dot above).
Matthijs Siegenbeek (Dutch pronunciation: [mɑˈtɛis ˈsiɣə(m)ˌbeːk]; 23 June 1774 in Amsterdam – 26 November 1854 in Leiden) was a Dutch academic.
Belarusian The Belarusian language has the following digraphs: 'дз' for affricates [d͡z] and [d͡zʲ] (see uk:дз) 'дж' for affricate [d͡ʒ] (see дж).
Although Old East Slavic distinction of genders in the plural (masculine -ии, feminine -ыѣ, neuter -аꙗ) had died in speech long ago, 18th-century writers still tried to distinguish genders in the spelling, and Mikhail Lomonosov's variant was chosen as the standard.
Unicode has, in addition, other encodings for minus and hyphen characters: U+2212 − MINUS SIGN and U+2010 ‐ HYPHEN, respectively.
In Aristotle's Rhetoric, he argues that the end of section should be so clear from the language that it would not need to be marked.
History This alternation is caused by a historical palatalization of /k/ which took place in Late Latin, and led to a change in the pronunciation of the sound [k] before the front vowels [e] and [i].
Except for COMMAND.COM, all other parts of the operating system accept both characters in a path, but the Microsoft convention remains to use a backslash, and APIs that return paths use backslashes.
Use The character is used in many Polynesian languages as ʻokina, a unicameral consonant letter used within the Latin script to mark the phonemic glottal stop.
Mongolian numerals are numerals developed from Tibetan numerals and used in conjunction with the Mongolian and Clear script.
Symbols allow people to go beyond what is known or seen by creating linkages between otherwise different concepts and experiences.
Distinctive features of Maghrebi script are: the different pointing of fāʼ and qāf; shaddah may be represented with a V-shaped symbol; waṣl is indicated by writing the final vowel of the preceding word a second time with the alif (with u represented by a bar through the middle of the alif), e.g.
External links DASI (Digital Archive for the Study of pre-Islamic Arabian Inscriptions) DiCoNab (The Digital Corpus of the Nabataean and Developing Arabic Inscriptions) OCIANA (Online Corpus of the Inscriptions of Ancient North Arabia)
800 CE) calligrapher who was famous for creating wild illegible calligraphy, and the younger "drunk" monk Huaisu who also excelled at illegible cursive calligraphy.
Indeed, this document, which was accepted by a special committee in 1921, presented the same theses of another paper Abeghyan read in 1913 in Echmiadzin.
An example in which a mixture of systems would be used is to clarify that a letter should be read with a dagesh.
ISO 15924, Codes for the representation of names of scripts, is an international standard defining codes for writing systems or scripts (a "set of graphic characters used for the written form of one or more languages").
Wave dash (U+301C 〜 WAVE DASH) is a character represented in Japanese character encoding mainly used as a dash and chōonpu.
However, this is unlikely as it is believed that in his time there were separate e sounds in the a and ya columns of the kana table.
The obvious question about the origin and evolution of these scripts is how a purely alphabetic script was changed into, or perhaps unconsciously reinterpreted as, a partial syllabary.
A bracketed exclamation point or question mark as well as scare quotes are also occasionally used to express irony or sarcasm.
A heptagraph (from Ancient Greek: ἑπτά, heptá 'seven' and γράφω, gráphō 'write') is a sequence of seven letters used to represent a single sound (phoneme), or a combination of sounds, that do not correspond to the individual values of the letters.
This process exists in opposition to phonetics and word analysis, as a different method of recognizing and verbalizing visual language (i.e.
The English vowel sound represented in IPA as has these homophones (varying with the speaker): alone, system, easily, gallop, circus, mountain, mullein, dungeon, parliament, legion, porpoise, curious, Abyssinia.
There is no separate physical keyboard layout for Catalan: the flying point can be typed using ⇧ Shift+3 in the Spanish (Spain) layout or with Option +⇧ Shift+9 on a US English layout.
Although it is believed that the southeastern Iberian script does not have a system to differentiate between voiced and unvoiced occlusives, a recent paper (Ferrer i Jané 2010) argues for the existence of a dual system in the southeastern Iberian script as well.
See also Apostrophe Hamza Modifier letter double apostrophe Modifier letter turned comma Saltillo and ʻOkina, other letters used for glottal stop Spacing Modifier Letters == References ==
Champollion's insight in part stemmed from his familiarity with the work of French sinologist Jean-Pierre Abel-Rémusat regarding fanqie, which demonstrated that Chinese characters were often used to write sounds, and not just ideas.
Volapük has no official method for avoiding the diacritic, but sometimes they are substituted with ay, oy and uy.
Oftentimes, reflexive or reciprocal constructions are used to indicate the equivalent of the English passive voice, which does not formally exist in Juǀ'hoan.
They preferred to organise their material theologically – in the order of God's creation, starting with Deus (meaning God).
The second approach is more common, and includes things such as the detection of cognates or related words, discovery of the closest known language, word alignments, and more.
The following verb endings are all pronounced the same: tu parles, il parle and ils parlent; there can also be confusion around the similar sounding je parlais and je parlai.
It does not use diacritics, and as such due to the large phonemic inventory of Nuosu, it requires frequent use of digraphs, including for monophthong vowels.
Feltehető tehát ennek a jelnek a megléte a Kárpát-medencei rovásírásban is (a székelybe is innen származhatott)." ("This could imply also that this glyph can be derived from the Parthian Aleph form.
In this way, a series of commands can be "piped" together, giving users the ability to quickly perform complex multi-stage processing from the command line or as part of a Unix shell script ("bash file").
The Arabic abjad order is not a simple historical continuation of the earlier north Semitic alphabetic order, since it has a position corresponding to the Aramaic letter samekh / semkat ס, yet no letter of the Arabic alphabet historically derives from that letter.
Nuo tai Nuo tai (Chinese: 挪抬, literally "move and shift") is a typographical device used in written Chinese to denote respect for the person being mentioned.
In speech In spoken conversation, a stand-in for scare quotes is a hand gesture known as air quotes or finger quotes, which mimics quotation marks.
Frank Nuessel points out that use of eye dialect closely interacts with stereotypes about various groups, both relying on and reinforcing them in an attempt to efficiently characterize speech.
The term donor principle is sometimes also used for the particular spelling of names of specific products, brands, institutions, etc., chosen by their owner, founder, designer, etc., when it clashes with the official spelling rules.
However, the 1999 Orthographic Dictionary of the Ukrainian language does not include this exception for church-related loanwords, such as архієпископ (archbishop), архієрей (bishop), архімандрит (archimandrite), клір (clergy), клірик (cleric).
The Unicode block for Lycian is U+10280–U+1029F: See also Letoon trilingual Lycian language Notes References Adiego, I.
That is, to represent the double curly quotes use &#8220; and &#8221;, and to represent single curly quotes use &#8216; and &#8217;.
While short and long vowels are largely allophonic, there are minimal pairs in which the presence or absence of meteg can make a difference: compare e.g.
Performance artist Laimonas Zakas was inspired by Zalgo text to create Glitchr, a Facebook page that intentionally modifies and glitches Facebook code.
and θ, which represent the initial phonemes of a number of case suffixes, which are realised /s/, /k/ and /t/ after a vowel and /ts/, /ɡ/ and /d/ after a nasal consonant.
It is used in a number of Polynesian alphabets as the letter ʻokina to represent the glottal stop, and in the Uzbek alphabet to form the letters Oʻ and Gʻ, which correspond to Ў and Ғ respectively in the Uzbek Cyrillic alphabet.
In transliteration of Arabic, it indicates Arabic phonemes which are usually allophones in modern Hebrew: [ɣ] is distinguished from [r] and [ħ] is distinguished from [χ].
Japanese hiragana was initially a women's script, for instance, used by Murasaki Shikibu to write The Tale of Genji.
For example, the glyph 'stars and moon' written in black means 'dim', but written in white it means 'shining' (Sun 2009:165).
The earliest form of the conventions was agreed at a meeting of classical scholars at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands in 1931, and published the following year.
An example of this in Japanese would be the grapheme 東 [east], which can be read as higashi or azuma, in addition to its logographic representation of the morpheme tō.
The idea that there were now two rival forms of written Greek had taken root by 1896, and it seemed that the literary tide might be beginning to turn in favour of Demotic prose.
In modern Vietnamese, a tittle can be seen in ì, ỉ, ĩ, and í in cursive handwriting and some signage.
Initially, these reforms were not broadly adopted when they were proposed but gradually became popular into the early 20th century.
Arbitrary variation found popularity among adolescent users during the BBS and early WWW eras of online culture, as if in parody of the marginally less idiosyncratic capitalization found in common trade and service marks of the time.
Cyrillic alphabets In the second half of the 1930s, the process of transferring scripts to the Cyrillic basis began in the USSR.
Tartessian Tartessian script is intermediate between a pure alphabet and the Paleohispanic semi-syllabaries.
Sun Yat-sen 先總統 蔣公 - The Late President (space) Honorable Chiang 起初 神創造天地 - In the beginning (space) God created the heaven and the earth.
For instance, the English word cats may be transcribed phonetically as [ˈkʰæʔts], phonemically as /ˈkæts/ and morphophonemically as ⫽ˈkætz⫽, if the plural is argued to be underlyingly ⫽z⫽, assimilating to /s/ after a voiceless nonsibilant.
See also fr:Faute d'orthographe fr:Wikipédia:Liste de fautes d'orthographe courantes == References ==
The primary difference between the letter apostrophe and U+2019 is that the letter apostrophe U+02BC has the Unicode General Category "Letter, modifier" (Lm), while U+2019 has the category "Punctuation, Final quote" (Pf).
The letter is ho sung ຫ, which would represent the sound /h/ if it were not paired with another low class consonant.
Membership was reintroduced in early 2023 and at the end of 2024 stood at almost 4,600 across the UK, US, and the wider English-speaking world.
It produced an easily understood spurious Scots that was very popular with English readers and on the English stage.
In the case of Pular, this change brought the official orthography in harmony with those used in other countries.
Transcription and transposition errors may also occur in syntax when computer programming or programming, within variable declarations or coding parameters.
The most obvious cure for the errors is for the user to watch the screen when they type, and to proofread.
In Tartessian script, vowels were always written after the plosives, but they were redundant — or at nearly so — and thus it seems they were dropped when the script passed to the Iberians.
In Maghrebian Abjad order: For four Persian letters these values are used: Similar systems The Abjad numerals are equivalent to the earlier Hebrew numerals up to 400.
Ancient languages with such almost perfectly phonemic writing systems include Avestic, Latin, Vedic, and Sanskrit (Devanāgarī—an abugida; see Vyakarana).
140 characters size used for English/Roman languages can be used to accommodate only about 70 language characters when Unicode Proprietary compression is used some times to increase the size of single message for Complex script languages like Hindi.
The Scandinavian languages and the Finnish language, by contrast, treat the characters with diacritics ⟨å⟩, ⟨ä⟩, and ⟨ö⟩ as distinct letters of the alphabet, and sort them after ⟨z⟩.
Two modern well-known examples of syllabaries consisting mostly of CV syllabograms are the Japanese kana, used to represent the same sounds in different occasions.
Examples on usage in Modern Standard Arabic: Fāʾ-fatḥah (فَـ /fa/) is a multi-function prefix most commonly equivalent to "so" or "so that." For example: نَكْتُب naktub ("we write") → فَنَكْتُب fanaktub ("so we write").
The partition sign is also used to separate book and chapter titles when they are mentioned consecutively: book first and then chapter.
For this purpose, he introduced six new phonetic consonant symbols for the sounds ð, θ, tʃ, dʒ, ʃ and syllabic l, as well as a system of diacritics for vowels.
In contrast, ideograms were an identifying feature of the Pahlavi system, and these huzvarishn were words borrowed from Semitic languages such as Aramaic that continued to be spelled as in Aramaic (in Pahlavi script) but were pronounced as the corresponding word in Persian.
For example: The scare quotes could indicate that the word is not one the writer would normally use, or that the writer thinks there is something dubious about the word groupies or its application to these people.
4-letter ISO 15924 codes are incorporated into the IANA Language Subtag Registry for IETF language tags and so can be used in file formats that make use of such language tags.
The Armenian orthography reform occurred between 1922 and 1924 in Soviet Armenia and was partially revised in 1940.
The identity of a letter in the middle of a word is obscured by the presence of its neighboring letters.
Etymology The word was coined by an artist on the Australian periodical The Bulletin in the 1920s and is derived from the word dinky.
The combination gli in Italian can also be a trigraph, representing the palatal lateral approximant /ʎ/ before vowels other than i, as in aglio, pronounced [ˈaʎʎo].
Kenneth Burke described Homo sapiens as a "symbol-using, symbol making, and symbol misusing animal" to suggest that a person creates symbols as well as misuses them.
The book gives an excellent account of skep beekeeping, including methods of predicting - from tone pitch of the buzzing bees - when swarming might occur.
Context-sensitive spell checkers appeared in the now-defunct applications Microsoft Office 2007 and Google Wave.
By the era of Early Modern English, with the influence of continental printing practices after the English Restoration in 1660, printing began to favor increased capitalization of nouns following German typography.
⟨æ⟩, ⟨œ⟩, ⟨ĳ⟩ and ⟨ŋ⟩ are ordered as modifications of ⟨ae⟩, ⟨oe⟩, ⟨ij⟩ and ⟨n⟩ respectively, similarly for similar cases.
A fan-made campaign logo for the Michael Bloomberg 2020 presidential campaign, originally mistaken for an official logo, was described as closely resembling Zalgo text.
Loanword hyphenation is governed by the same grammar rules as the rest of the Standard Modern Greek language.
Because of the number of works written in this orthography, which uses the letters q, c, f, ñ and ll, its users dub it tutûng Kapampángan—"genuine Pampangan".
Punctuation was also included because, in fact, there were no set rules for Arabic writing and everyone wrote as they pleased; as such, punctuation was just thrown anywhere into a sentence for aesthetic purposes rather than simplifying sentences to make concepts easier to grasp for the reader.
Cox that is used by a number of individuals within Kodagu district of India to write the endangered Dravidian language of Kodava, also known sometimes as Coorgi.
Although the manuscript has been studied, "translated" in accordance with correct Gaelic orthography and republished – for the first time in 1923 by Calum MacPhàrlainn – it has been said that it has yet to be reliably interpreted.
These keys can then be efficiently compared byte by byte in order to collate or sort them according to the rules of the language, with options for ignoring case, accents, etc.
Today Chinese and Japanese are the most widely used scripts consistently written without punctuation to separate words, though other scripts such as Thai and Lao also follow this writing convention.
To the manor belongs a third of the penny of the Hundred of Nortmolton and Badenton and Branton, and a third of the cattle of the pasture.
The wave dash is similar to, but not the same as, the tilde character (U+FF5E ～ FULLWIDTH TILDE), which is often used interchangeably with it.
In typography, an asterism, ⁂, is a typographic symbol consisting of three asterisks placed in a triangle, which is used for a variety of purposes.
The practicality of using an abbreviation for a familiar noun such as 'man' is demonstrated clearly in the Old Norse poem Hávamál, where the maðr rune is used a total of forty-five times, saving a significant amount of space and effort (Codex Regius: 5–14) Late Middle Ages (c.
On page 232, Vékony wrote: "- Aethicus Ister jelei azonosak az egykori Kárpát-medencei rovásírás jeleivel." ("The symbols of Aethicus Ister are identical to the symbols of the quondam Carpathian Basin script").
History The Yakima practical alphabet is based on the Americanist phonetic notation as well as the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).
This principle applies in particular to the standardization in the receiver language of exonyms when they are used in publications.
History After the establishment of the North Korean government in 1945, the North Korean Provisional People's Committee began a language planning campaign on the Soviet model.
The Abakada alphabet was an "indigenized" Latin alphabet adopted for the Tagalog-based Wikang Pambansa (now Filipino) in 1939.
⟨c⟩ (sé, [sjɛː]), ⟨q⟩ (kú, [kʰuː]) and ⟨w⟩ (tvöfalt vaff, [ˈtʰvœːfal̥t ˌvafː]) are only used in Icelandic in words of foreign origin and some proper names that are also of foreign origin.
The ticked variants of the letters, Ӷ ӷ Ӻ ӻ Қ қ Қʼ қʼ Ң ң Р̆ р̆ Ҳ ҳ, continue to be used by the sole Nivkh newspaper, Nivkh dif (Nivx Language).
Languages The exclamation mark is mainly used in languages that use the Latin alphabet, although usage slightly varies.
ASCII transliteration systems There are two alternative orthographies in common use, which replace the circumflex letters with either h digraphs or x digraphs.
Likewise, the Juu languages have been claimed to have a heptagraph ⟨dts’kx’⟩, but this is also a sequence, of ⟨dts’⟩ and ⟨kx’⟩.
More rarely, the term "affection", like "umlaut", may be applied to other languages and is then a synonym for i-mutation generally.
words which change their meaning between capitalized and uncapitalized usage, such as "liberal" and "Liberal", are called capitonyms: Compare "A man of liberal tastes" and "The leader of the Liberal Party" (as with "catholic" above).
Ultimately, Jean-François Champollion's successful decipherment of hieroglyphs in 1823 stemmed from an understanding that they did represent spoken Egyptian language, as opposed to being purely ideographic.
by De Saussure) connect *dhu̯es- "smoke, spirit", attested in Baltic and Germanic words for "spook" and ultimately cognate with Latin fumus "smoke." The earliest attested form of the word is the Mycenaean Greek te-o (plural te-o-i), written in Linear B syllabic script.
The randomized capitalization leads to the flow of words being broken, making it harder for the text to be read as it disrupts word identification even when the size of the letters is the same as in uppercase or lowercase.
The three controls CGJ, ZWJ and ZWNJ (which have canonical combining class 0) are all blocking the canonical reordering of meteg with vowels points, and only ZWJ is needed for the special placement of meteg (combining class) in the middle of an hataf vowel.
According to Jansen (2010), Sahaptian languages [do] not have a long written tradition and the alphabet systems for writing the language are still fairly new.
In spoken Chinese, a single syllable is used in many different words, and a Chinese child must cope with having many written characters that represent the same syllable.
A pasigraphy (from Greek πᾶσι pasi "to all" and γράφω grapho "to write") is a writing system where each written symbol represents a concept (rather than or not just a word or sound or series of sounds in a spoken language).
Annotations tell the compiler to apply special semantics to the declaration like keywords, without adding keywords to the language.
In this concept, the sh in the written English word shake would be a grapheme because it represents the phoneme /ʃ/.
To produce an underscored word, the word was typed, the typewriter carriage was moved back to the beginning of the word, and the word was overtyped with the underscore character.
A similar situation exists regarding the Korean KS X 1001 character set, in which Microsoft maps the EUC-KR or UHC code for the wave dash (0xA1AD) to U+223C ∼ TILDE OPERATOR, while IBM and Apple map it to U+301C.
However, they share a common origin, and the most widely accepted hypothesis is that the northeastern Iberian script was derived from the southeastern Iberian script.
It is placed above the stressed syllable, as in Biblical Hebrew: וַיִּקַּ֞ח, romanized: wayyiqqáḥ, in Genesis 22:3.
In 2005, standardized writing systems for the languages of Taiwan's 16 recognized indigenous peoples were established by the government.
Uses The Yakima practical alphabet is currently used in research, language teaching, and language revitalization efforts.
Other letter combinations that don't follow the paradigm include ⟨cz⟩, ⟨sc⟩, ⟨cs⟩, ⟨tch⟩, ⟨sch⟩, and ⟨tsch⟩.
These scripts were arranged in two orders, an ABGDE order in Phoenician and an HLĦMQ order in the south; Ugaritic preserved both orders.
Today, there is no widely accepted rule in English on whether or not to use reverential capitalization.
…day of His coming … when He appeareth" In the 20th century, this practice became far less common: For our heart rejoices in him, because we have trusted in his holy name.
The 18th-century practice was also adopted by later writers such as Walter Scott, John Galt and Robert Louis Stevenson.
Woilde, we 'ave come for tew take yew Where felons and criminals dwell: We must ask yew tew leave with us quoietly For this is the Cadogan Hotel.
An asterism used this way is thus a type of dinkus: nowadays this usage of the symbol is nearly obsolete.
κορωνίδες, korōnídes) is a textual symbol found in ancient Greek papyri that was used to mark the end of an entire work or of a major section in poetic and prose texts.
Similarly, the ampersand ⟨&⟩, originally a ligature for the Latin word et, in many European languages stands logographically for the local word for "and" regardless of pronunciation.
Ablaut is the phenomenon wherein stem vowels change form depending on context, as in English sing, sang, sung.
From the perspective of writing systems, they are neither alphabets nor syllabaries; rather, they are mixed scripts that are typically identified as semi-syllabaries.
When used as stand-alone, it would combine unintentionally with a preceding character (possibly a space): Diacritic ̒ used alone between regular spaces Diacritic ◌̒ used after a character Using the generic dotted circle character also shows the relative positioning of the diacritic.
Computer usage Encodings ¡ and ¿ are in the "Latin-1 Supplement" Unicode block, which is inherited from ISO-8859-1: U+00A1 ¡ INVERTED EXCLAMATION MARK U+00BF ¿ INVERTED QUESTION MARK See also Spanish orthography Unicode input – Input characters using their Unicode code points == References ==
As in the second of the two examples below, if a semicolon separates the two sentences and the second sentence starts with an adverb, this adverb is preceded by a semicolon and followed by a comma.
In topology, σ-compact topological space is one that can be written as a countable union of compact subsets.
It remained a valid and practical guide for beekeepers for two hundred fifty years, until Langstroth and others developed and promoted moveable comb hives.
It has a particular use in the Sindhi language of Pakistan where it represents the aspirated /kʰ/ and is called keheh.
The 1989 digital typeface Trajan from Adobe is a direct, all-capital adaptation of the Roman square capitals on Trajan's column.
However, this study has been criticized due to methodological limitations, such as not recording when and how Tall Man lettering was adopted, if at all, at each of the hospitals studied.
The Leiden Conventions or Leiden system is an established set of rules, symbols, and brackets used to indicate the condition of an epigraphic or papyrological text in a modern edition.
And because Meteg has a distinctive combining class, its encoding order relative to other diacritics is not significant (because of canonical equivalence).
According to one hypothesis, the name "sigma" may continue that of Phoenician samekh (𐤎), the letter continued through Greek xi, represented as Ξ.
The word "Pazend" ultimately derives from the Avestan words paiti zainti, which can be translated as either "for commentary purposes" or "according to understanding" (phonetically).
Punctuation and capitalization Chitumbuka uses punctuation largely consistent with English, including full stops, commas, question marks, and exclamation points.
In Sanskrit and other Indian languages, a single vertical mark, ।, called a danda, has a similar function as a period (full stop).
It can also be used to mean "untitled" or author or title withheld – as seen, for example, in some editions of Album for the Young by composer Robert Schumann (№ 21, 26, and 30).
This table has adjusted the "First List of Processed Chinese Variant Characters" and includes 794 groups of 1,023 variant characters in total.
Anthony (from Latin Antonius), now (in Anglophone countries outside the UK) is typically rather than .
There are various other Unicode characters that include commas or comma-like figures with other characters or marks, that are not shown in these tables.
The coronis is encoded by Unicode as part of the Supplemental Punctuation block, at U+2E0E ⸎ EDITORIAL CORONIS.
The chart below compares a number of different writing systems for Hokkien, including bopomofo, kana, Hangul, various romanizations, and Chinese characters.
In contrast to the nominal typographic purpose of quotation marks, the enclosed words are not necessarily quoted from another source.
Journalist Oliver Kamm wrote in 2016 of novelist Jane Austen's use of the comma splice, "Tastes in punctuation are not constant.
In addition to the Latin script, capitalization also affects the Armenian, Cyrillic, Georgian and Greek alphabets.
At around 1550, he began to teach, and noticed that the particular spellings of word would cause disagreement amongst teachers and students.
The vertical wave dash () is not currently included in Unicode, but there is a similar symbol available called the wavy line (U+2307 ⌇ WAVY LINE).
External links The personal papers of Eliezer Ben-Yehuda are kept at the Central Zionist Archives in Jerusalem.
In addition to these variations of the Tengwar shapes, there is yet another variation, the use of stems that are extended both above and below the line.
However, the style guide for a given publication may call for every item except the last one in each bulleted list to be terminated with a semicolon, and the last item with a full stop.
A meme known as "Mocking SpongeBob" more broadly popularized using alternating caps to convey a mocking tone starting in May 2017, leading to alternating caps becoming a mainstream method of conveying mockery in text.
A vocalized plene spelling system is common in children's books, when it is better to accustom the children to the more popular plene spelling, while still letting them benefit from the vowel dots as a reading aid in early learning stages.
⟨deddicate⟩, ⟨edducate⟩, ⟨perrish⟩ Doubled ⟨g⟩ before ⟨e⟩ may be spelt ⟨dg⟩ or ⟨gg⟩ to indicate whether it is soft or not.
Vowel diacritics Like Urdu, Shahmukhi also has diacritics, which are implied - a convention retained from the original Arabic script, to express short vowels.
Operation Natural sorting algorithms generally operate by splitting strings into "chunks" of text and numbers.
{\displaystyle 1+2+3+\cdots +100\ =\sum _{n=1}^{100}n=100?} (see termial) 1 × 2 × 3 × ⋯ × 100 = ∏ n = 1 100 n = 100 !
Scriptio continua The early alphabetic writing systems, such as the Phoenician alphabet, had only signs for consonants (although some signs for consonants could also stand for a vowel, so-called matres lectionis).
When the Pe is written in the form of a Doubled Pe, this adds a layer of deeper meaning to the Biblical text.
The English consonant sound represented in IPA as has these homophones: car, kill, account, bacchanal, character, back, acquaint, lacquer, sacque, biscuit, lough, rake, Sikh, walk, Iraq, liquor, and plaque.
Reverential capitalization is the practice of capitalizing religious words that refer to deities or divine beings in cases where the words would not otherwise have been capitalized.
Often this portion of such URLs corresponds with files on a Unix server with the same name, and this is where this convention for internet URLs comes from.
According to the original design, it included the letters A a, B в, C c, Ç ç, D d, E e, Ə ə, F f, G g, H h, Ꜧ ꜧ, I i, J j, K k, L l, M m, N n, Ŋ ŋ, O o, P p, Q q, R r, Ŗ ŗ, S s, Ş ş, T t, U u, V v, X x, Z z, Ь ь.
In the Canadian Aboriginal syllabics, a middle dot ⟨ᐧ⟩ indicates a syllable medial ⟨w⟩ in Cree and Ojibwe, ⟨y⟩ or ⟨yu⟩ in some of the Athapascan languages, and a syllable medial ⟨s⟩ in Blackfoot.
Thus, a single character can represent a variety of morphemes which originally all had the same meaning.
Like the Abjad order, it is used in modern times for numbering outlines and points of information, including the first six days of the week.
Title capitalization in different styles Depending on which style guide is used for capitalization, certain rules regarding specific words, such as prepositions, nouns, and pronouns, apply.
See also Health informatics References External links ISMP updates its list of drug name pairs with TALL man letters, November 18, 2010 "Drug Labelling and the Application of TALLman Lettering Project Report" (PDF).
For example: You call that a hat‽ Are you out of your mind‽ Are you a dummy‽ Writers using informal language may use several alternating question marks and exclamation marks for even more emphasis.
The title expresses Butler's main idea that the colony is governed, not by a king-bee, as Aristotle claimed, but by a queen-bee.
According to the provisions of "General List of Simplified Chinese Characters", some characters such as "瞭、乾、藉、麽" that are not simplified in some meanings and usages are explained with notes.
The long s exists in some current OpenType digital fonts that are historic revivals, like Caslon, Garamond, and Bodoni.
It can also be used to indicate a spot where a character is supposed to be, but it is rarely used for other purposes.
Later Sina.com invited Wang Gan for an interview on his views on the history reasons and deficiencies of simplified Chinese characters.
Also at the beginning of the 20th century, the Udege language material was collected by Pyotr Shmidt and Stanisław Poniatowski.
However, even at their best, they rarely catch all the errors in a text (such as homophone errors) and will flag neologisms and foreign words as misspellings.
Denoting a numeral A Geresh can be appended after (left of) a single letter to indicate that the letter represents a Hebrew numeral.
The orthography of Greek includes several digraphs, including various pairs of vowel letters that used to be pronounced as diphthongs but have been shortened to monophthongs in pronunciation.
Regarding that usage, Ortografía de la lengua española states that "diaeresis is usually placed over the closed vowel [i.e.
In French, Catalan, Portuguese, and Old Spanish a cedilla is used to indicate a soft /s/ pronunciation when it would otherwise seem to be hard.
This is our sarcasm marker One convention for doing this is by placing the mark adjacent to the punctuation.
It is also referred to in slang as narutomaki (なるとまき), the name for a type of white fishcake with a pink swirl on the inside.
In addition, Trissino played a prominent role in the early career of Andrea Palladio, which developed into a long and close friendship between the two men.
A summary table of the digraphs and diacritics of the old alphabet, and their extended Latin equivalents in the new system, follows: References Académie des langues, République de Guinée (1976).
The other Dene language of the Northwest Territories, Gwich’in, always includes the tittle on lowercase i.
All other remaining records of 17th century Gaelic verse were committed to paper only after surviving for a hundred years or more as oral literature.
Double entry (or more) may also be leveraged to minimize transcription or transposition error, but at the cost of a reduced number of entries per unit time.
Of forty-four English language sound combinations, listed in one dictionary, thirty-nine of them have more than two signs, and only one of them has one sign.
In 1865 the first scientific grammar of the Evenki language, written by Matthias Castrén, was published.
These include methods concerning the frequency of appearance of each symbol, the order in which these symbols typically appear, whether some symbols appear at the beginning or end of words, etc.
Another popularization of air quotes was the character Bennett Brauer, played on the sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live by Chris Farley, an aggressive but socially awkward commentator who used air quotes to mock societal expectations of him.
The apostrophe is used with proclitic forms and the interpunct is used with enclitic forms: que·l (que lo, that the) versus qu'el (that he) From Bertran de Born's Ab joi mou lo vers e·l comens (translated by James H.
Its name is derived from the Rajasthani word munda, which means "bare-headedness", given to it due to the fact that the script lacks a bar at the top of the alphabet to conjoin letters, which differs it from Devanagari script.
Its final form represents 800 but this is rarely used, Tav written twice (400+400) being used instead.
In APL \ is called Expand when used to insert fill elements into arrays, and Scan when used to produce prefix reduction (cumulative fold).
There is only one letter I in Irish, but i is undotted in the traditional uncial Gaelic script to avoid confusion of the tittle with the buailte overdot found over consonants.
It was her desire, in telling this story, was to pass on to her children and future generations of her family, her life story.
Historical relevance Hart's work has been lauded by modern linguists for his highly insightful phonetic analysis of the Early Modern English of his days, and for his thoroughness in pursuing the phonetic principle.
In particular, as Czech additionally possessed palatalized consonants and a hard l, the dot indicated softness above n, d, t, c and z, and hardness for l.
The common hijāʾī sequence, read from right to left, is: Persian uses a slightly different order, in which و comes before ه instead of after it.
The gesture is typically done with both hands held shoulder-width apart and at the eye or shoulders level of the speaker, with the index and middle fingers on each hand flexing at the beginning and end of the phrase being quoted.
Traditionally in English, when spelling aloud, any letter that could also be used as a word in itself ("A", "I", and "O") was referred to by the Latin expression per se (by itself), as in "per se A" or "A per se A".
For example, the words saco and taco are both standard words but adding -es or -ez (both productive affixes in Spanish) would create spellings that seem to indicate soft ⟨c⟩ pronunciations.
The use of a graphic symbol on an expression to indicate dubiousness goes back much further: Authors of ancient Greece used a mark called a diple periestigmene for that purpose.
Bilingual road signs formerly used dotless i in lowercase Irish text to better distinguish i from í.
The service mark symbol, ℠, is used to indicate the assertion of a service mark (a trademark for the provision of services).
If, however, the proper value of the vowel is not recoverable through vowel harmony, then the letter ь /ʔ/ is added at the end of the syllable, as in шагыйрь /ʃaʁir/ "poet".
Characters added which differ from Persian but not Urdu include: ٹ to represent /ʈ/, ڈ to represent /ɖ/, ڑ to represent /ɽ/, ں to represent /◌̃/, and ے to represent /ɛ:/ or /e:/.
In the Korean alphabet, the featural symbols are combined into alphabetic letters, and these letters are in turn joined into syllabic blocks, so the system combines three levels of phonological representation.
Personal life As of 2019, she lives at Hidden Valley, a town camp of Alice Springs, with her daughters.
In order to introduce the script, 10,000 CD booklets and 25,000 post cards with various scenes from the region were produced and distributed throughout the Coorg area in March and April 2005.
In 1948, the New Korean Orthography was promulgated, along with the Standard Language Orthography Dictionary, which aimed to provide a unified guideline for the usage of the new script.
For instance in astronomical terminology a distinction may be drawn between a moon, any natural satellite, and the Moon, the natural satellite of Earth.
The script was developed out of the request by a group of Kodava individuals to have a distinct script for Kodava Takk, to distinguish the language.
No distinction was drawn between the vernacular language and the liturgical, though the latter was based on South Slavic rather than Eastern Slavic norms.
For example, petite capital ⟨ʀ⟩ represents a uvular trill in IPA, and ⟨ɢ⟩ a voiced uvular plosive; capital ⟨R⟩ and ⟨G⟩ have no defined meaning in IPA, but are commonly used as wildcards for 'resonant' and 'glide'.
From 1818 he became a member of the Teylers First Society and continued in that position until his death.
Phonograms are contrasted with logograms, graphemes that represent units of meaning like words, morphemes, and determinatives (silent characters used to mark semantic categories).
The International Movement Writing Alphabet (IMWA) is a set of symbols that can be used to describe and record movement.
It is generally written in the Nastaʿlīq calligraphic hand, which is also used for Persian and Urdu.
The southern scripts include: the Espanca script, known from a single tablet and recognized as the earliest attestation of an alphabetical order among the Paleohispanic scripts.
I is first class (no longer used), Ro is second class (now "Green car") and Ha is third class (standard carriages).
However, in February 1932, the following adaptation of the Unified Northern Alphabet was approved instead: A comma under the letter meant palatalization.
A multigraph (or pleograph) is a sequence of letters that behaves as a unit and is not the sum of its parts, such as English ⟨ch⟩ (typically pronounced ) or French ⟨eau⟩ (pronounced [o]).
In 1995, the new Green Booklet was published; the alternative “progressive” spellings were abolished (it was now actie) and there were new rules about the n linking the compounds of words (pannekoek (pancake) became pannenkoek and bessesap (currant juice) became bessensap).
The colloquial nature of the text as well as the fact that vowels in the Arabic alphabet at the time, were written sporadically and irregularly.
Orthography of Luganda Chesswas was the author of "The Essentials of Luganda" (1954); the third (1963) and fourth (1967) editions of which are commonly used as a textbook for courses in Luganda language.
The house is now a conference center and guesthouse run by the German organization Action Reconciliation Service for Peace (ARSP), which organizes workshops, seminars and Hebrew language ulpan programs.
A stroke is sometimes drawn through the numerals 7 (horizontal overbar) and 0 (overstruck foreslash), to make them more distinguishable from the number 1 and the letter O, respectively.
Gaj's alphabet has been adopted by the Serbian and Bosnian standards and that it has complete one-to-one congruence with Serbian Cyrillic, where the three digraphs map to Cyrillic letters ⟨џ⟩, ⟨љ⟩ and ⟨њ⟩, respectively.
Relationship with phonemes As mentioned in the previous section, in languages that use alphabetic writing systems, many of the graphemes stand in principle for the phonemes (significant sounds) of the language.
Rhetorical capitalization "The Quick Brown Fox jumps over the Lazy Dog" A stylistic choice, often found in poetry (such as the works of Emily Dickinson), where specific words are capitalised to provide emphasis, intensity, or symbolic weight, regardless of their part of speech.
The six-letter sequence ⟨schsch⟩ appears in German; for example, in the name Eschscholtz (and thus is the scientific name Eschscholtzia of the California poppy).
The plural can be written with an erroneous apostrophe ("grocer's apostrophe" in Britain): "apple's and pear's".
the attachment, connection, joining"), a non-phonemic glottal stop produced automatically only if at the beginning of an utterance, otherwise assimilated.
Even though the pronunciation without the was the traditional way to pronounce it in Britain, the spelling pronunciation with the eventually became the standard there.
The antiquarian Joseph Hunter was the first to publish all known variations of the spelling of the name, which he did in 1845 in his book Illustrations of the Life, Studies, and Writings of Shakespeare.
It may be used as a diacritic to derive new letters from old ones, or simply as an addition to make a grapheme more distinct from others.
In LaTeX mathematical mode, the ASCII vertical bar produces a vertical line, and \| creates a double vertical line (a | b \| c is set as a | b ‖ c {\displaystyle a|b\|c} ).
Both these regions are distinct from areas that respond to other types of complex stimuli, such as faces or colored patterns, and are part of a functionally specialized ventral pathway.
Esperanto sorts each letter with diacritic mark directly after the corresponding letter without such a mark.
The Vietnamese tilde, also known by its Latin name of apex, was a curved diacritic used in the 17th century to mark final nasalization in the early Vietnamese alphabet.
Sometimes words are purposely misspelled, as a form in slang, abbreviations, or in song lyrics, etc.
In 1954 Geoffrey Dowding's book Finer Points in the Spacing and Arrangement of Type underscored the widespread shift from a single enlarged em space to a standard word space between sentences.
Other scholars may draw a distinction between allography in a broad sense, which excludes writing in "the usual script", and allography in a strict sense, which excludes only writing systems "created ad hoc" or "heavily evolved or reworked".
Letters with diacritical marks (like ⟨à⟩, ⟨î⟩, ⟨õ⟩, and ⟨ü⟩) are ordered as variants of the base letter.
David"; a third contains his epigraph, which is incomplete, only "ben David ben Naphtali" remaining.
The nasal tilde is sometimes mistaken for the tone mark ngã in modern reproductions of early Vietnamese writing, such as in Phạm Thế Ngũ's Việt Nam văn học sử.
The sign equivalent to Iberian s is transcribed as z in Celtiberian, because it is assumed that it sometimes expresses the fricative result of an ancient dental stop (d), while the Iberian sign ś is transcribed as s.
vinCRIStine The Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP) has a supplemental list covering pairs not recommended by the FDA, but considered necessary by the ISMP.
The above example involves active morphology (inflection), and morphophonemic spellings are common in this context in many languages.
However, as ㅐ/ɛ/ and ㅔ/e/ are considered as single letters in modern Korean, ㅙ and ㅞ are considered as digraphs now.
In the 1970s, replacement interrobang keycaps and typefaces were available for some Smith-Corona typewriters.
The convention of capitalizing all nouns was eventually abandoned in English; especially influential in this was Benjamin Blayney, who produced a 1769 edition of the King James Bible in which nouns were not capitalized—possibly simply to save space on the printed page.
A 2016 time-series analysis of data from 42 children's hospitals over a 9-year period found no significant difference before and after a 2007 recommendation for hospitals to adopt Tall Man lettering.
⟨m⟩ and ⟨n⟩ are nasal consonants, when at the end of a word or behind another consonant, they nasalize the preceding vowel, with this being the most common way of encountering nasal vowels in Portuguese, the other being with the tilde.
Unicode characters Used with Western Arabic numerals (0123456789): U+0020 SPACE U+0027 ' APOSTROPHE (&apos;) U+002C , COMMA (&comma;) U+002E .
Specifically, dril tweeted: "i refuse to consume any product that has been created by, or is claimed to have been created by, the (((Keebler Elves)))".
There are a few pairs of words of different meanings whose only difference is capitalisation of the first letter.
In typography, text or font in all caps or all-caps (short for "all capitals") contains capital letters without any lowercase letters.
Other ISO 8859 parts placed it at the same position, with the exception of ISO 8859-11 (Latin/Thai), which lacks it.
In Merriam-Webster dictionaries if a word is divided at the end of the line, and the division point happens to be a hyphen, it is replaced with a double hyphen to graphically indicate that the divided word is normally hyphenated, for example cross⸗country.
It was released again in 1986 with some revision, alongside the rescission of the Second round of simplified Chinese characters that had been announced in 1977.
Intentionally omitted information Many applications of the dinkus, including those that were common historically, have indicated intentional omission of information.
He was one of many, including Desiderius Erasmus, who felt there was a need for such a punctuation mark, but Wilkins' proposal, like the other attempts, failed to take hold.
It is now commonly accepted that they do not represent true borrowings from the embedded language and instead came to represent a separate register of orthographic archaisms.
The original sense of the word, though, implies a dichotomy of correct and incorrect, and the word is still most often used to refer specifically to a standardized prescriptive manner of writing.
It symbolizes, as do the slash or the parenthesis typographic conventions, that women are "the second choice." See also Notes Footnotes References Baron, Dennis E.
Letters The collation of letters in the Abakada alphabet closely follows that of other Latin alphabets, besides the digraph Ng being inserted after N and the placement of K When enumerating each consonant, it is always pronounced with an ⟨-a⟩ suffix (i.e., "ba", "ka", etc.).
External links Overview of the abjad numerological system Sufi numerology site Archived 2012-04-21 at the Wayback Machine Numerical Value of an Arabic Text as per "Abjad" Calculation - www.alavibohra.org Archived 2011-07-05 at the Wayback Machine Abjad Calculator
The absurdist Twitter user dril sparked controversy in June 2016 after posting a tweet in which he made satirical use of the triple parentheses.
The Common Tailorable Template (CTT) data file of this ISO/IEC standard is aligned with the Default Unicode Collation Entity Table (DUCET) datafile of the Unicode collation algorithm (UCA) specified in Unicode Technical Standard #10.
Hyphenation rules of Standard Modern Greek Consonant splitting According to KEME (1983), the splitting of a Modern Greek word into syllables (syllabification) is governed by the following rules: C1: A single consonant between two vowels is hyphenated with the succeeding vowel.
Consequently, the Meteg may be freely reordered during Unicode normalization when it appears in sequences with other combining diacritics, without affecting its interpretation or rendering.
The second option was officially approved by the Khabarovsk Regional Executive Committee in January 1989.
A readable orthography will avoid situations in which a reader is faced with severe lateral masking.
One of the possible reasons for the cessation of book publishing in the Udege language is the fact that in 1937 Yevgeny Shneider was repressed.
Another theoretical example of a heptagraph would be the traditional Irish spelling oidhche 'night' for modern oíche, but only for the pronunciation /iː/ as found in the Cois Fharraige dialect.
German or French), some are designed as a librarian's transliteration, some are prescribed for Russian travellers' passports; the transcription of some names is purely traditional.
d represented /d/ as in Latin, and the letter g before e and i represented /j/; in other cases g represented /ɡ/.
Some standard transliterations such as DIN 31635 transliterate it with a modifier letter right half ring ʾ.
Leiden usage in corpora L'Année épigraphique, Presses Universitaires de France (Revue archéologique.
Zalgo text has become popular in the world of "surreal memes", which are intended to come across as bizarre or absurd.
Capitalized words are often used to differentiate a philosophical concept from how the concept is referred to in everyday life, or to demonstrate respect for an entity or institution.
In Danish, the plural second-person pronoun, I, is capitalized, but its other forms jer and jeres are not.
For example, the word strip may be decomposed into a set of trigrams such as rip and str — these are Wickelphones.
For example, the loanwords сигнал, динамо, режим, дизель, зиґзаґ, and принтер are written with the letter "и", rather than writing сігнал, дінамо, режім, дізель, зіґзаґ, and прінтер.
Homophones Two (or more) differently spelled words with different meanings are homophones if they are nonetheless pronounced the same; e.g., "right", "rite", "wright", and "write"; "read" (most tenses of verb) and "reed"; "read" (past, past participle) and "red".
Preference is given to the 639-2 Bibliographical codes, which is different from the otherwise often preferred use of the Terminological codes.
However, his pupils such as Eric Gill and Percy Delf Smith rapidly secured commissions creating lettering in the Roman capital style that were widely seen, for example Gill created standard lettering for W.
Eventually, to mark a new section, the Latin word capitulum, which translates as "little head", was used, and the letter ⟨C⟩ came to mark a new section, or chapter, in 300 BC.
The original symbol set, SSS-95, was limited in size due to memory constraints in personal computers at the time.
There is ambiguity about the writer's parentage as "Mother Teresa and the pope" can be read as an appositive phrase renaming of my parents, leading the reader to believe that the writer claims that Mother Teresa and the pope are their parents.
An alternative type of spell checker uses solely statistical information, such as n-grams, to recognize errors instead of correctly-spelled words.
Other scripts used in Arabia Greek Greek inscriptions are attested in parts of northwestern Arabia, particularly in areas under Hellenistic and Roman influence.
Words that are misspelled cause the readers difficulty because they attempt to sound out the words by looking at each individual letter rather than the word as a whole.
During their stay, they taught the Lusei tribes to read and write, translated Gospels (Gospel of Luke, Gospel of John) and Acts into Lusei language, and published A Grammar and Dictionary of the Luhsai Language in 1895.
The older colonial system showed marked influence from French, for instance writing /u, w/ as ⟨ou⟩ and /sˤ/ as ⟨ç⟩, and was inconsistent in marking many Berber sounds, for instance writing /ʕ/ as a circumflex over the vowel, and often leaving emphatics unmarked.
See also Mikhail Lomonosov, who created the basis of the modern Russian literary language == References ==
Encoding The letter turned comma is encoded at U+02BB ʻ MODIFIER LETTER TURNED COMMA, in the Spacing Modifier Letters Unicode block.
The German sequence ⟨schtsch⟩, used to transliterate Ukrainian ⟨щ⟩, as in ⟨Borschtsch⟩ for ⟨борщ⟩ "borscht", is a sequence of a trigraph ⟨sch⟩ and a tetragraph ⟨tsch⟩ rather than a heptagraph.
In Scala, it is used to denote annotations (as in Java), and also to bind names to subpatterns in pattern-matching expressions.
Parts of speech Pronouns In English, the subjective form of the singular first-person pronoun, "I", is capitalized, along with all its contractions such as I'll and I'm.
However, this sign, namely the apex, only affects o᷃ and u᷃, at the end of a word, as ao᷃ "bee", ou᷃ "grandfather" or "lord".
Generally speaking, the older texts (13th to 15th centuries) use a more phonetic writing, while morphological writing becomes more frequent (but by no means exclusive) in the later centuries.
The modifier letter turned comma ʻ is a character found in Unicode resembling a comma that has been turned.
Most other fixed sequences of seven letters are composed of shorter multigraphs with a predictable result.
New graphemes Two new letter combinations have been introduced to unambiguously represent /ɑː/ ⟨aa⟩ and /ʊ/ ⟨uu⟩.
Poetry A double vertical bar ⟨||⟩ or ⟨‖⟩ is the standard caesura mark in English literary criticism and analysis.
Brihadaranyaka Upanishad The eighth brahmana of the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad focuses on the concept of the imperishable (akshara).
The anubandha Ṇ occurs twice in the list, which means that you can assign two different meanings to pratyāhāra aṆ (including or excluding ṛ, etc.); in fact, both of these meanings are used in the Aṣṭādhyāyī.
ALA-LC (1997) "Volapuk" encoding (1990s): Slang term (it is not really Volapük) for a writing method that is not truly a transliteration, but used for similar goals (see article).
When according to the rules below, a hamza with an alif seat would occur before an alif which represents the vowel ā, a single alif is instead written with the maddah symbol over it.
However, other spellings of his did not last: andwoord (antwoord / answer), hair (haar /hair/her), ontfangen (ontvangen / to receive), thands (thans / at present) and wareld (wereld / world).
Schoolchildren can learn simplified characters first, and then traditional characters later if they want to be linguists or historians.
The Committee adopted these changes into the draft American Standard (subsequently called ASCII) at its November 1961 meeting.
19th century In 1816 Alojzy Feliński published Przyczyny używanej przeze mnie pisowni in Pisma własne i przekładania wiérszem Aloizego Felińskiego.
A pallawa is used to separate rhythmico-intonational groups, thus functionally corresponding to the full stop and comma of the Latin script.
Like other proponents, he suggested to "indigenize" the alphabet of the Philippine languages by replacing the letters C and Q with K.
The use of the Avestan alphabet to write Middle Persian required the addition of one symbol to the Avestan alphabet: This character, to represent the /l/ phoneme of Middle Persian, had not previously been needed.
Kotava uses accented á, é, í, ú in the 1st person singular of the verbal conjugation to express stress.
Grammar Juǀ'hoan is an isolating, head-initial language that follows a fairly strict SVO word order.
One additional amendment Amd.1:2017 was published in September 2017 and covers up to and including Unicode 9.0.
Types The following are examples of types of parenthetical phrases: Introductory phrase: Once upon a time, my father ate a muffin.
The block has four standardized variants defined to specify emoji-style (U+FE0F VS16) or text presentation (U+FE0E VS15) for the two emoji, both of which default to a text presentation.
It appears to have been at their May 13–15, 1963 meeting that the CCITT decided that the proposed ISO 7-bit code standard would be suitable for their needs if a lower case alphabet and five diacritical marks [...] were added to it.
This system was used until the 5th century AD, and fundamentally differed by adding pronunciation hints to existing hieroglyphs that had previously carried no pronunciation information.
Dahai also added the tulergi hergen ("foreign/outer letters"): ten graphemes to facilitate Manchu to be used to write Chinese, Sanskrit, and Tibetan loanwords.
Usage Chitumbuka orthography is used in religious texts, including translations of the Bible, newspapers and magazines published in Tumbuka.
Sterling Dow, "Conventions in editing: a suggested reformulation of the Leiden System", Greek, Roman and Byzantine Studies Scholarly Aids 2, Durham, 1969.
William Worrell argues that the Coptic Egyptian went through three stages in its contact with Arabic.
This included consistent representation of nasalized sounds, tonal markers in dictionaries and linguistic publications, and formalizing diacritics such as ŵ and b.
Another example of using a structured approach to teach reading is the foundational-skills curriculum, UFLI Foundations, developed by researchers at the University of Florida Literacy Institute.
Instead of transmitting the committee's conclusions, Makintsyan directly presented Abeghyan's proposal to the Soviet of Popular Commissars.
In the late 11th or early 12th century, Indian Zoroastrians (the Parsis) began translating Avestan or Middle Persian texts into Sanskrit and Gujarati.
It is a solution to a problem of word economy: how do you avoid saying a three-word compound, e.g., Lehrer und Lehrerinnen (male teachers and female teachers) when you just want to say teachers in German?
The first experiments in recording the Nivkh language in writing date back to the end of the 19th century: a number of researchers (N.
Rubin encourages appreciators of correct punctuation and spelling to send in pictures of errors spotted in everyday life.
In accounting, Σ indicates the balance of invoice classes and the overall amount of debts and demands.
National Punctuation Day is a celebration of punctuation that occurs each year on September 24 in the United States of America.
By 1952, regulations on checking schoolchildren's works, the Great Soviet Encyclopedia, and the reference book for typographers by K.
Both scripts were alphabetic in nature, and in the face of disapproval from officials who favored the promotion of Latin-script literacy, neither had seen widespread adoption as of 1969.
See also Cave Beck Constructed language Emoji Engineered language Ideogram Jacob Linzbach Joseph de Maimieux Philosophical language == References ==
The Unicode collation algorithm (UCA) is an algorithm defined in Unicode Technical Report #10, which is a customizable method to produce binary keys from strings representing text in any writing system and language that can be represented with Unicode.
The documentary The story of the Morbidelli racing team is told in the documentary film Morbidelli - a story of men and fast motorcycles (2014), by directors Jeffrey Zani and Matthew Gonzales.
The indexed table turns vertically or horizontally, and its movement could be continuous or intermittent.
OMZ manufactures a wide range of steel, custom and industrial components for nuclear power plants, petrochemical and mining operations and utilities.
Figures The main production work is carried out in the establishments of Formigine and Ubersetto, with over 530,000 square feet of facilities and a staff of about 400.
Initially, production was focused on multi-machines, pasteurizers and batch freezers, until 1974, when Genesio Bravo conceived and built the first multi-purpose machine for the production of artisanal gelato, called "Trittico".
The company was consequently seized by organizations and persons tied with Islamic Republic officials.
In June 2006, a live 5-axis STEP-NC machining demonstration was hosted by Airbus at the Université Paul Sabatier Laboratoire de Génie mécanique in Toulouse.
Standards The widespread use of scaffolding systems, along with the profound importance that they earned in modern applications such as civil engineering projects and temporary structures, led to the definition of a series of standards covering a vast number of specific issues involving scaffolding.
Non Sparking Monel Drums are widely used in hazardous environments exposed to flammable particles or corrosive chemicals.
Gallery of scaffold types Putlog scaffold In addition to the Jody couplers (discussed above), there are also Jody tubes.
Hand tools similar to linishing belts but much smaller and more suitable for small surfaces are also used.
Operation Stankoprom JSC, within the framework of Rostec State Corporation, has the status of a center for technological audit of technological equipment purchased by the corporation's organizations, as well as ensuring centralized supplies of machine tool products to the corporation's enterprises.
Subcompact tractors, the size between a compact tractor and lawn tractor, are also often sold in backhoe loader setup, sometimes with a belly-mounted mower also included.
A vibrating feeder or vibratory feeder is an industrial machine used to feed material to a process or machine.
Other Case sealers can also be categorized as either adjustable to fit production runs of a uniform box size or random, capable of handling a mixed variety of box sizes without machine adjustment.
The Third Blast Furnace, which restarted only two and a half months after the earthquake, had become a 'symbol of recovery', but was suspended in October 2017 in order to strengthen competitiveness.
After a crisis, the industry starts the production of forced hot air rotary ovens for many years, until 1982 when PFM starts reducing the production of ovens while the flow pack catches on.
According to Dhaka Tribune there is a strong syndicate involved in embezzling funds from the company.
The "Electric Worksite" study conducted 2024 in Gothenburg with the participation of Volvo, investigated the feasibility of fully-electric construction sites using real examples in the city.
One must make sure a high-temperature epoxy is used in the manufacturing of the vacuum table before it makes contact with hot substrates.
See also Check weigher Multihead weigher Quality assurance Validation and verification References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
High speed spindle High speed spindles are used strictly in machines, like CNC mills, designed for metal work.
A discontinuous filament winding machine (DFW machine or DW machine) is a machine for laying fiberglass filament windings over a cylindrical mould or mandrel bar using a carriage that is traveling along the axis of that mandrel.
The bar puller serves to draw bars into the lathe without operators having to feed the machine with material each time it is required.
This setup did not prove as effective as desired and the processes were separated and the modern paver was on its way.
These conveyors are suitable for light applications up to 50 kg (110 lb) such as cardboard boxes and tote boxes.
Radial drill press is a special variant where the spindle also is attached to a slide so that the drill can also be moved radially between each drilling.
In 2018, Sulzer acquired US company JWC Environmental, LLC, a provider of solids reduction and removal products such as grinders, screens and dissolved air flotation system for municipal, industrial and commercial wastewater applications.
For example, a clamp or vise can be used to hold the workpiece, and the clamp or vise itself can be attached to grooves in the drilling table.
In 2013 the Morgan won the HumanityPlus Uplift Personal Manufacturing Prize and third place in the Gauteng Accelerator Program.
Process A single-point cutting tool is rigidly held in the tool holder, which is mounted on the ram.
A typical motorized roller conveyor zone can handle carton items weighing up to approximately 35 kg (75 lbs.).
Mechanical couplers can be advantageous in comparison with conventional methods of lap splicing because of the requirement for less steel for overlapping.
The company, still producing paper machinery, has extended its activities to engineering of auxiliary equipment for paper machines in its historic facilities.
Rotary tables are made with a solid base, which has provision for clamping onto another table or fixture.
Manufacturers Britain was a major exporter of steam rollers over the years, with the firm of Aveling and Porter probably being the most famous and the most prolific.
Gas–solid mixing Gas–solid mixing may be conducted to transport powders or small particulate solids from one place to another, or to mix gaseous reactants with solid catalyst particles.
Packaging Machinery Technology (ISSN-1556-1658) was a trade publication and web site owned by PMMI for packaging and packaging machinery manufacturers and packaging engineers in the United States and Canada.
Today, this type has been almost completely displaced by electronic thermal transfer devices with built-in keyboard and display, and an integrated cartridge containing the label material (and print ribbon, if used).
The direct contact method of heat sealing utilizes a constantly heated die or sealing bar to apply heat to a specific contact area or path to seal or weld the thermoplastics together.
Co-founder Volker Pape was elected to the Supervisory Board on June 1, 2018, naming Carsten Salewski the new Director of Sales/Operations.
In 1984, HEPCO development project was designed in collaboration with Liebherr & Volvo companies, aiming at fabrication of steel structures of construction equipment.
In August 2023, it was announced Siemens had signed an agreement to acquire the Veldhoven-headquartered eBus, eTruck and passenger vehicle fast charging technology company, Heliox.
The company entered the Australian market in 2018 with the acquisition of Millsom Hoists, who had been their distributor in the area for thirty years previously.
On 21 May 2024, YASA received approval to establish its new headquarters at a former RAF base in Bicester, Oxfordshire.
The tool is similar to a rotary table except that it is designed to be tilted as well as rotated and often allows positive locking at finer gradations of rotation, including through differential indexing.
Unlike iron and steel and alloys, which are vulnerable to corrosion without the application of paints, epoxy granite is generally resistant to most common solvents, acids, alkalis, and cutting fluids.
In water hoisting In energy production The bucket wheel design is also used to capture the water energy in water-wheels or water turbines like Pelton wheels.
This setup allows the machining of spiral or helical features such as spiral gears, worms, or screw type parts because the part is simultaneously rotated at the same time it is moved in the horizontal direction.
See also Heat gun References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
Within a year, they were being exported around the world, including to France, India and the United States.
Lewis has identified in English and French sources four mentions of wheelbarrows between 1172 and 1222, three of them designated with a different term.
A Drum handler is a piece of mechanical equipment that is used to securely grip, lift and transport cylindrical modules such as steel drums, barrels, plastic drums and fiber drums.
The photodiode generates a waveform that is used to measure the widths of the bars and spaces in the barcode.
Also known as XY stages, XY tables are motorized linear slides with linear motion based in bearings which are driven by a drive mechanism, typically a linear motor.
In addition to a control to raise and lower the forks (also known as blades or tines), the operator can tilt the mast to compensate for a load's tendency to angle the blades toward the ground and risk slipping off the forks.
The shape of the bucket can vary from the truncated conical shape of an actual bucket to more scoop-like or spoon-like shapes akin to water turbines.
The company was part of Japan's industrial buildup before and during World War II, then, like the rest of Japanese industry, was humbled by the war's outcome.
Bead rollers also can be used in an artistic and creative form by allowing metalworkers to create unique designs and patterns on metal.
However, with production based on the open-hearth furnace, the future of flat production in Linz would be too expensive.
The first trains produced at either facility under ABB ownership were for an order for 22 three-carriage Class 320 electric multiple units, built at ABB York for Glasgow's suburban railways in 1990.
For example, lasers can detect chlorophyll by stimulating fluorescence using specific wavelengths; which is a process that is very effective for removing foreign material from green vegetables.
Applications A trencher may be combined with a drainage pipe or geotextile feeder unit and backfiller, so drain or textile may be placed and the trench filled in one pass.
Parting off tool This is similar to a cutoff tool, in that a discrete part is cut from a sheet or strip of metal along a desired geometric path.
Record keeping for construction equipment is often poor, making identification of recovered items difficult.
Dymo has received criticism for using a razor and blades model by forcing customers to purchase genuine Dymo label rolls.
This is the direction the drum is rotated while the concrete is being transported to the building site.
Seal strength is not only relevant to opening force and package integrity, but to measuring the packaging processes’ ability to produce consistent seals.
Gallery References Bibliography Holland, Max (1989), When the Machine Stopped: A Cautionary Tale from Industrial America, Boston: Harvard Business School Press, ISBN 978-0-87584-208-0, OCLC 246343673.
ITW Mima Packagings Systems is a member of the Process and Packaging Machinery Association (PPMA) == References ==
Adjusting to the numerous developments in its production, the company acquired expertise in this field that in the 1950s they decided to make it their sole business.
The bulk can be composed of different substances and the aim of the operation is to blend it or to improve the efficiency of a reaction by a better contact between reactive product.
Such rotary transfer machines are used for producing a large number of parts in fairly short cycle times.
Because they most often have three jaws, the term three-jaw chuck without other qualification is understood by machinists to mean a self-centering three-jaw chuck.
is an Italian company specialized in the production of high and very high pressure water pumps and one of the world's leading groups in the hydraulic sector.
On the contrary, Hydraulic Presses do not have a tonnage curve and can produce full tonnage at any point in the stroke.
All the machines were driven by rope from a single large wheel; two horizontal steam engines powered the entire ironworks.
Hibar's technology caught the eye of Tesla, Inc., which builds battery-electric vehicles and battery energy systems.
If an accident happens and a roofer loses his/her footing, the 2x4 would stop the roofer from sliding down and/or off the roof.
Peder Ulrik Poulsen invented the rotating mandrel with an endless steel band (strip) in 1967, which made the continuous filament winding process possible.
Upon exiting, the material that remains on the center roll moves through the second nip between the center roll and apron roll.
On a manual milling machine, the micrometer adjustment nut limits the depth to which the cutting tool may plunge into the workpiece.
The revived product range spans road and crossover motorcycles from 125 to 1,000 cc and scooters from 125 to 500 cc, with initial market launches targeting Europe, Asia and America.
Size 0 props can take at least 23 kN, whereas size 4 props at most 20 kN dropping to 7 kN at their maximum extension.
Swamp mats are based on a design developed by Joe Penland in the late 20th century and consist of three layers of 2’ x 8’ lumber laminated together with steel bolts.
The jaws are driven by hydraulically actuated eccentrics which crush material to a desired particle size.
At EICMA 2025, the brand unveiled two further models for 2026: the C652V power cruiser and the T502XR adventure bike.
These were led by Siemens with contributions from RWTH Aachen University and the University of Stuttgart in Germany, Komatsu and FANUC in Japan, Heidenhain in Switzerland, and the Pohang University of Science and Technology in Korea.
History The history of crawler excavators can be traced back to the late 19th century, with the invention of the steam shovel in 1796.
As a press tool requires a matching punch and die set, there are two corresponding turrets, above and below the bed, for punch and die.
The 930G, with 149 hp (111 kW) of net flywheel power at 2300 rpm, it is classified as a small wheeled loader in the line of Caterpillar's excavators.
Logistics and Distribution: Shipping Labels: Barcode printers are essential for creating shipping labels that contain information such as destination, shipping method, and tracking numbers.
Most modern machine presses typically use a combination of electric motors and hydraulics to achieve the necessary pressure.
The fillers have a hopper shaped like a cone that holds the mix and puts it in a pouch using an auger conveyor that is controlled by the agitator.
The revolutionary underlying principle was that advances in machine tool control that expedited the making of jigs were fundamentally a way to expedite the cutting process itself, for which the jig was just a means to an end.
Acoustic interferometry can be used to measure seismic velocities through a material or to infer density of materials.
Depending on the machine, the probe position may be manually controlled by an operator, or it may be computer controlled.
The laboratory developed the first collaborative robot (cobot) with a built-in vision system – the TM5 In 2014 the TM5 was subsequently unveiled at the International Robot Exhibition (iREX) held in Tokyo, Japan, in 2015.
Examples include camshafts, crankshafts, transmission shafts and other rotating parts with a length longer than their diameter.
Spacing is the same on a Jody scaffold as on a general purpose scaffold, and ties are still required.
History In the early years of the shipbuilding industry, workers covered their hats with pitch (tar) and set them in the sun to cure and harden, a common practice for dock workers in constant danger of being hit on the head by objects dropped from ship decks.
At this time lathes were changed to permit inexpensive and economical production of small or medium-sized batches.
A notable disadvantage is that the large open area of paste on the rollers causes loss of volatiles.
These being: Mobile-One E Governance by the Department of IT, BT & ST, Government of Karnataka in December 2014 which had the President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee visiting BIEC.
It enables the operator to drill or cut work at exact intervals around a fixed (usually horizontal or vertical) axis.
Aksa Power Generation (or Aksa Jeneratör Sanayi A.Ş.) is a Turkish corporation, (part of the Aksa Group and owned by Kazanci Holding) that designs, manufactures, distributes, sells and services electrical power generators worldwide.
the Barcodepedia used a flash application and some web cam for querying a database), have been realized options for resolving the given tasks.
Starting in 2022, the company was to move its headquarters and location in Allach in phases to an industrial estate then under construction in the community of Vaterstetten, which is located north of the village of Parsdorf.
PMMI U has partnered with 28 institutions in the United States and Canada that offer packaging and processing curriculum.
In fact, machine tool builders are already developing machines that include both subtractive and additive manufacturing in one work envelope, and retrofits of existing machines are underway.
As with other setups on a vertical mill, the milling operation can be either drilling a series of concentric, and possibly equidistant holes, or face or end milling either circular or semicircular shapes and contours.
Energy storage The energy storage division develops intermediate storage options for renewable energy.
Another portable type are handheld trenchers that look similar to a chainsaw, weigh 20Kg (45lbs) or less, and can trench 0-700 mm (0-27 inches ) deep and a minimum of 50 mm (2 inches) wide.
While the process is innovative in many ways, the work performed on the machines proved to carry HS&E risks caused by fumes, emissions, fire risks and mechanical pinch points.
A seed-counting machine is an automated industrial device used in agriculture and packaging to accurately count seeds.
Nidec Leroy-Somer is a French company based in Angoulême, Charente which manufactures mainly electric motors.
As of October 2015, it is a member of the Austrian Traded Index, the index of the twenty largest companies traded on the Vienna stock exchange.
While superficially similar, movable scaffolding systems should not be confused with launching gantry machines, which also are used in segmental bridge construction.
A ruggedized Telematic control unit, installed on each asset, uses a GPS tracking unit to provide real-time Vehicle location data.
A typical bed has X and Y travel, and is between three and four feet square with a rotary table or a larger rectangle without a table.
Customers are largely universities such as University of Maryland, Florida Polytechnic, UMass Amherst, and Xavier University.
There are also heat gun form factors friendly for food purposes such as melting hard candies, searing meats, or to start a charcoal fire or grill.
Classification Stabilized soil mixing plants are of two kinds: the portable stabilized soil mixing plant and the stationary stabilized soil mixing plant.
Limitations There is no ASTM standard for using a concrete moisture meter to determine a final moisture content reading.
Depending on the type of phase and the viscosity of the bulk, the agitator may be called a mixer, kneader, dough mixer, amongst others.
Placing the workpiece eccentrically a set distance from the center permits more complex curves to be cut.
RFID tags need to have printed information for backwards compatibility with barcode systems, so human users can identify the tag.
Abernethy and Co Stonemason's Lathe was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.
Because seeds may continue to fall due to inertia after a feeding conveyor stops, these systems intentionally halt the primary continuous feed just before the target count is reached.
The forging of low-ductility and hard-to-deform steels and alloys by two dies using conventional forging methods is very difficult and sometimes is practically impossible because of high tensile stresses in deformation zone leading to various forging defects and high percentage of rejected products.
The relative coordinate system allows the machine operator to define a point in the workspace based on, or relative to, the previous point that the machine tool was at.
The firm exhibited an "air blowing machine" at the St Petersburg Exhibition of New and Improved Mechanisms, Devices and Tools in 1875, alongside a similar one by Roots.
Drill presses can be divided into two main types depending on their construction: Column drill press is a common type characterized by the fact that the drill spindle can be moved up and down axially ("along a column"), and has a height-adjustable table, usually adjustable via a rack and pinion.
The company's first portable Anatergoarm model, the TMA-500, was deployed in 2010 at Hydro Quebec's Robert-Bourassa generating station for breaking unit repairs.
Furthermore, successive generations of MLOCR hardware and software would incorporate some of the advances made in computer-based Remote Encoding, in order to minimize the number of mailpieces that need to go through this extra step.
The two companies also jointly established Advanced Micro Computers (AMC), located in Silicon Valley and in Germany, allowing AMD to enter the microcomputer development and manufacturing field, in particular based on AMD's second-source Zilog Z8000 microprocessors.
A few months following the start of the 1997 Asian financial crisis, ABB announced plans to accelerate its expansion in Asia as well as to improve the productivity and profitability of its Western operations.
An A-frame known as a ROPS (Roll-Over Protection) frame, may be fitted over the seat to protect the driver if the dumper rolls over.
Table saw Tenoner or tenoning machine Thicknesser or Thickness planer Round pole milling machine Round pole sanding machine Panel Line Woodworking machines These machines are used in large-scale manufacturing of cabinets and other wooden or panel products.
is headquartered in Taiwan and has overseas branches in Shanghai, Shenzhen, Chongqing, Busan, and Alblasserdam.
At each stage, the tool will progressively shape the component towards its final shape, with the final stage normally being cutting-off.
These beams may be emanating from laser, or the spray of ink as with a continuous inkjet (CIJ) printer, the most important factor is that the product or machine should be moving at constant speed.
However, battery-powered, solar-powered and hydrogen-powered sets are available; light towers with electrodeless lamps lighting are also sold.
This length enables the launching gantry to span the gap between two adjacent bridge piers while providing allowances for the distance required for launching to the next span and flexibility of movement to accommodate curved paths between piers.
These multi-component forces are measured as an individual component force in each co-ordinate, depending on the coordinate system used.
It is most commonly used for regular slotted containers (RSC) and can involve adhesive (cold water-borne or hot melt adhesive), box sealing tape, or gummed (water activated) tape.
AzarAb Industries is an Iranian manufacturing corporation that constructs power plants, factories, petrochemical plants and sugar, oil and gas refineries that is located in Arak.
Several methods are available to determine the ability of a sealed package to retain its integrity, barrier characteristics, and sterility.
Ultrasonics can also be used to weld metals, but are typically limited to small welds of thin, malleable metals such as aluminum, copper, and nickel.
This press was marked a National Historic Mechanical Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 1981.
Double-acting presses have a subdivided ram, to manage, for example, blank holding (to avoid wrinkles) with one ram segment and the forming operation with the second ram segment.
There are 170 numerical control machines, served by LGV (Laser Guided Vehicle) lines and a whole division is dedicated to the thermal treatment that works 24 hours, 7 days a week.
In the 1960s and 1970s, the machine factory continued to grow: the factory buildings were extended, the production facilities modernised and efforts in the field of research intensified.
History Motovario® was founded in 1965 by Giancarlo Raguzzoni in Formigine in the heart of Modena industrial district.
Reach-in ovens are meant for different industrial applications that may need uniform temperature throughout.
PMT Italia (2000-.....) All the shares of Beloit Italia were sold to the Nugo Group and the company was renamed PMT Italia S.p.A.
The key difference between the two vehicles is that on a roller the main roll replaces the front wheels and axle that would be fitted to a traction engine, and the driving wheels are smooth-tired.
The main advantage of a servo press is its low energy consumption; its only 10-20% of other press machines.
More generally, a toe board is a small vertical barrier attached to a raised floor or raised platform.
These two turrets must rotate in precise synchronisation and with their alignment carefully maintained.
Optical technologies include non-contact laser interferometry or shadow systems, while tactile systems use an optical grating.
In regards to new tier 4 restrictions, oven cleanings can continue as an essential service for customers.
Sealant and Adhesive Application: They provide equipment for applying sealants, adhesives, and other bonding materials in industries like construction and automotive assembly.
In addition, special linear guides are offered for protection against earthquakes in cultural monuments, data centers, and residential buildings.
The National Shipbuilding Research Program (NSRP) has also hosted work to implement a prototype that connects a shipyard design system to a plate cutting using STEP-NC.
When combined with the use of conical tools or a ball nose cutter, it also significantly improves milling precision without impacting speed, providing a cost-efficient alternative to most flat-surface hand-engraving work.
Historical descriptions The American Association for the Advancement of Science noted in 1883: The only instrument used in the construction of the igloo is the snow-knife.
It has opened three generator manufacturing plants in China (Changzhou, Wuxi and Hangzhou) with its Hangzhou State plant (opened 2012) making 24,000 generators per year and being the largest generator factory in the world.
Some are built into a production line or are integral with machinery that also applies the shrink film.
The portable stabilized soil mixing plant has wheels on each part and can be driven by a trailer, but has low productivity.
A further order for 97 four-car Class 465 units was completed at ABB York for Network SouthEast services in and around Kent between 1991 and 1994.
Types There are different types of drum handlers available in today's market; forklift attachment, hydraulic drum lifter, mobile drum handler, below-hook drum handler and drum rotator.
A box blade (also box scraper) is a type of implement used on tractors for smoothing and contouring land.
A lineshaft roller conveyor or line-shaft driven live roller conveyor is, as its name suggests, powered by a shaft beneath rollers.
They eliminate the need to manually measure and cut each individual piece of tape on high volumes of product or packaging.
Some robots are programmed to faithfully carry out specific actions over and over again (repetitive actions) without variation and with a high degree of accuracy.
The Tiltrotator (also known as a Rototilt) was introduced to the market in Sweden in the early 1980s by the Norgrens under the family owned and operated company named Noreco, and has become the standard in Scandinavia.
In 1968, WEG created CentroWEG, a training center to aid in the lack of qualified professionals in the area of mechanical engineers.
Freddy's patent application referenced specific drive methods, allowing competitors to enter the market by offering alternative methods, but using the same articulating principle.
Lascoe, Orville (1988), Handbook of Fabrication Processes, ASM International, ISBN 978-0-87170-302-6 External links Video of a four-slide machine in use.
To perform this step, gummed dispensers often employ a water bottle and wetting brush to moisten each piece of tape as it is dispensed.
SACMI has international branches in 28 countries, including Brazil, Germany, India, Mexico, Russia, Singapore, Spain, the United States, Indonesia, Poland, Portugal and Egypt.
The biggest increases in thefts were in agricultural tractors (up 149 percent), quad bikes (up 83 percent), forklift trucks (up 67 percent), and portable generators (up 55 percent).
with around 1,400 exhibitors, including more than 350 international participants and 80,000 business visitors.
Thermal transfer printers also use heat, but instead of reacting the paper, the heat melts a waxy or resin substance on a ribbon that runs over the label or tag material.
The idea seems to have originated with Louis Martin in Europe in 1803, and may have been used by Arnold Pawtucket in 1812 in Rhode Island.
Once several bridge piers are complete, support brackets are attached to adjacent piers and the main parallel girders of the MSS are lifted in place to support the scaffold and concrete forms.
It's an attached tool for excavators for built-in crushing construction waste and demolition materials.
The ZYYX 3D Printer was designed to provide an enclosed print environment with a fan and carbon filter to scrub fumes produced by the melted filament before exhausting them into the environment.
Bamboo processing machines are used to prepare bamboo for use in manufacture of handicrafts, furniture and other products.
Depending on its shape, the impeller can generate: the moving of the liquid which is characterized by its velocity and direction.
In 1988, the Rapistan Lande company was acquired by the Dutch company leadership and private investors through a management buy-out.
In the furniture business, foam cushions can be stuffed more easily when the foam is compressed previously by the use of a table and a surrounding air resistant fabric.
Sortation is the process of identifying items on a conveyor system, and diverting them to specific destinations.
A swinging boom is advantageous where space is limited as stability, mobility and space management are greatly increased over their articulated counterparts.
In 1904 the company was already called Robert Ardelt & Söhne Maschinenfabrik, indicating that it was family-run.
Forging in forging presses is carried out by two dies of which one makes reciprocal movements and the other one remains stationary.
The motor was developed for the Morgan LIFEcar in 2008 by Dr Malcolm McCulloch and Dr Tim Woolmer, then a PhD student, at the University of Oxford.
Since mixers operate in the turbulent regime, many of the equations are approximations that are considered acceptable for most engineering purposes.
The take-up hub consists of a bar and a liner holder/clip, which are connected to the motor on a single side-frame.
Scaffolding, also called scaffold or staging, is a temporary structure used to support a work crew and materials to aid in the construction, maintenance and repair of buildings, bridges and all other human-made structures.
The shape of the seam is determined by the shape of the first operation roll, the second operation roll, their relative positions and distances, lifter height, lifter pressure.
The opposite leg (often outside leg) simply rests on the granite table following the vertical surface contour.
There are three types of off-the-road tires, transport for earthmoving machines, work for slow moving earthmoving machines, and load and carry for transporting as well as digging.
There are two major types of rock breakers, mobile and stationary - typically placed on a pedestal or slew frame.
Method of use To demolish roofs and other horizontal spans, the ball is typically suspended by a length of steel chain attached to the lifting hook of a crane boom above the structure, the rope drum clutch is released and the ball is allowed to free-fall onto the structure.
More contemporary high-speed systems utilize advanced machine vision, specifically line scan cameras.
Sequencing functions necessary to inflate the parison, hold the container prior to discharge and discharge are completed by mechanical actuation to pneumatic valves – resulting in a high degree of repeatability.
For this reason, the injection pressure is a critical factor in the production of injection-molded parts.
There are different kinds of technology to roll the metal plate: Four-roller machines have a top roll, the pinching roll, and two side rolls.
It is used as a layout tool for any kind of repeated work in carpentry including stair-building, framing, timber framing, siding, brickwork, and setting tiles.
and also referred to as VAI Group, which was created from VAI and Siemens electrical engineering and automation businesses.
Power drawbars Power drawbars are starting to become more popular in milling machines because they are a fully automated version of the drawbar.
In particular OMZ is a manufacturer of reactor pressure vessels for the VVER type of nuclear reactors and the manufacturer of EKG open-cut mining power shovels.
In 1990, ABB also expanded into Australia when it acquired Commonwealth Engineering's (Comeng) plant in Dandenong, Melbourne.
Infrared ovens – Infrared ovens transfer heat by directing electromagnetic energy straight to the surface of the material being processed.
Now that the layers are close, a series of nip rollers flatten the layers together to form a two-layered plastic film that is then wound onto a cylindrical roll for packaging purposes.
Divisions NEUMAN & ESSER GROUP includes divisions in sales and application centers for reciprocating compressors and grinding and classifying systems, compressor aftermarket spare parts and repair service centers, as well as its holdings.
Earlier accounts dating to the 1st century BC and 1st century AD that mention a "deer cart" (鹿車, luche) might also have been referencing a wheelbarrow.
The support structure is most commonly a base paired with a handle, but recently pole wrappers have been introduced providing a more ergonomic design.
Heavy equipment has been used since at least the 1st century BC, when the ancient Roman engineer Vitruvius described a crane powered by human or animal labor in De architectura.
It gave us a sense of importance of packaging machinery manufacturing that we have never lost.” By 1938, all PMMI members had catalogs on file at the PMMI office at 342 Madison Avenue, New York City, NY, so the office could be a clearinghouse for inquiries.
The RepRap Snappy is designed to address the core goal of the RepRap project of creating a 'general-purpose self-replicating manufacturing machine'.
However, the attempts at diversification failed to generate enough money and in 1976 the company, heavily in debt, was bought by Emhart Corporation, now Stanley Engineered Fastening, an organisation half its size.
Extended core stretch wrappers are rolls of stretch film that have their internal core extended beyond their film roll creating a handle by which film can be wrapped.
An early documented use was in the breaking up of the SS Great Eastern in 1888–1889, by Henry Bath and Co, at Rock Ferry on the River Mersey.
In both cases, the data is sent back to the originating mail facility where mailpieces are then automatically matched back up with data through the use of a unique fluorescent barcode printed on the back during initial MLOCR attempt and receive a POSTNET barcode representing the full address.
A rockbreaker is a machine designed to manipulate large rocks, including reducing large rocks into smaller rocks.
The traversing mandrel was primarily employed by watchmakers and ornamental turners during this era.
Both conventional and robotic palletizers can receive product at a high elevation, typically 7–10.33 feet (2.13–3.15 m), or low "floor level" elevation of 2.5–3.0 feet (0.76–0.91 m).
There are over 40 Standards that are periodically reviewed to ensure they reflect new developments and technical advances (e.g., new materials, new designs and new applications).
Shortly after, a concrete pump was patented in Holland in 1932 by Jacob Cornelius Kweimn (Jacobus Cornelius Kooijman).
The belt, predominantly in horizontal position, carries the product through the drying area which is divided into several sections.
In mechanical engineering and in the production of mechatronic systems and plants, these linear guides enable a significant improvement in accuracy and speed while at the same time reducing assembly and energy costs.
Smaller models, like the "1/150", were similar in concept but were operated by a single sorter and used different mechanism for the sorting.
As the indexing table turns, the subsequent machining operation is repeated on the workpiece which was just machined by the previous station.
The third CNC axis always moves the cylinder exactly over the tool, which keeps the wear on the bearings and tools to a minimum.
In the span-by-span approach, all the segments for a span are placed before bridge tendons are tensioned; in this fashion, work progresses from one pier towards an adjacent pier.
History It was founded in 1967 in Montecchio Maggiore by Genesio Bravo, as an industrial machine manufacturing company specializing in machines for gelato shops.
Desoutter Tools is active in fields, such as Aerospace, Automotive Industry, Light Assembly and Heavy Vehicles, Off-Road, General Industry.
They are used in remodelling so that, for example, the new coursing of exterior siding on a wing will match the existing.
The jig borer was invented to expedite the making of drill jigs, but it helped to eliminate the need for drill jigs entirely by making quick precision directly available for the parts that the jigs would have been created for.
Common CNC machines used are: CNC milling machines CNC lathes CNC plasma cutter Electrical discharge machining (EDM) CNC water jet cutters References External links Hoffman, Peter J.; Hopewell, Eric S.; Janes, Brian; Sharp, Kent M.
Image gallery See also High-mast lighting Moonlight tower External links Equipment World article on light towers == References ==
The 9,200 hp (6,860 kW) Lynxs at the Sims Metal Management plant at the mouth of the River Usk in Newport, Wales has access by road, rail and sea.
It switched from buying scrap metals from state owned sugar mills to a private contractor, Azam & Sons, increasing the cost of raw materials.
Heavy equipment functions through the mechanical advantage of a simple machine that multiplies the ratio between input force applied and force exerted, easing and speeding tasks which often could otherwise take hundreds of people and many weeks' labor.
They have been made of various materials over the years, ranging from wood to cast iron, and nowadays including plastic alloys and special polymer materials.
Typical graders have three axles, with the steering wheels in front, followed by the grading blade or mouldboard, then a cab and engine atop tandem rear axles.
Technological advancements, such as improved hydraulic systems, more efficient engines, and the addition of various attachments, have further expanded the capabilities of crawler excavators.
Bi-manual controls (controls the use of which requires both hands to be on the buttons to operate) are a very good way to prevent accidents, as are light curtains that keep the machine from working if the operator is in range of the die.
It is also one of the largest ground vehicles in current operation, and – by its official production in 2013 – became the largest self-propelled ground vehicle by gross size, beating out the NASA crawler-transporters.
At its peak, this company employed 9,000 workers and produced eighty-five percent of all shoemaking machines in the United States.
The special feature of this jib system is that the hook remains at a constant height when the direction is changed.
The fifth generation of printers (new Replicator, Mini and Z18) are significantly more closed than previous models.
It offers these products under its own brand, and manufactures them for sale under other brands (as an OEM), for example many microwaves are made by Midea, are internally similar but are sold under a multitude of different brands, with varying external designs.
(Bertoli; Pratissoli Pompe); General Pump Inc.; Hammelmann G.m.b.H.; Inoxihp S.r.l.; Inoxpa S.A.; NLB Corporation Inc.
Activities Description The company has subsidiaries in 37 countries, and production is distributed in manufacturing plants in 15 countries, including: Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, India, Mexico, Portugal, Austria, Germany, China, South Africa, Turkey, and United States.
NC and CNC machines could precisely repeat sequences over and over, and could produce much more complex pieces than even the most skilled tool operators.
Use Any two bars of same or different diameters are joined using the couplers by rotating like nut and bolt.
The heat source can be based on heating element (electrical resistance), infrared heater, steam, or gas flame.
Hydraulic Drum Lifter is a stand-alone piece of drum handling equipment that uses a wheeled trolley combined with a vertical lifting mast and drum gripping system.
It can also be applied to streamline the production lines of metal and plastic products, parts, and accessories.
Polymer cast resins use very little energy to produce, and the casting process is done at room temperature.
From being purely a family firm, Thwaites Brothers had a professional managing director by 1895, Arthur Devonshire Ellis.
Turbines (flat blades or pitched blades) which inlet flow is axial and outlet flow is radial will provide shearing, turbulence and need approximately 20 time more energy than propellers, for the same diameter and same rotation speed.
Coordinate System The CCMM coordinate system differs from standard cartesian coordinates in that it employs a rotating table.
Responsibility for the business was then gradually handed over to the sons Max, Robert, Rudolf, and Paul.
In rotating-cutter woodworking machinery, the spindle is the part on which shaped milling cutters are mounted for cutting features (such as rebates, beads, and curves) into mouldings and similar millwork.
In 2017, SIG introduced the first individual QR codes with digital sourcing transparency, tailored for dairy product consumers.
Variants Armored bulldozers Bulldozers employed for combat-engineering roles are often fitted with armor to protect the driver from firearms and debris, enabling bulldozers to operate in combat zones.
In 2012 Viscom developed the one-of-a-kind XM camera sensor technology, which is still used in AOI systems to this day.
Clean process ovens may be for air atmospheres, or inert atmospheres for oxidation-sensitive materials.
The probe moves in only two axes (the vertical Z and either X or Y horizontal) and the rotating table positions the subject of inspection (a cylindrical part, hence the word "cylindrical" in the title) in a precise manner.
Semi-automated With semi automatic equipment, the operator typically fills and loads a box at the entrance to the case sealer; the box may or may not have the bottom flaps previously closed.
is an Italian, privately held company established in 1963 that produces machines and plants for engineered stone and metalworking.
The screed takes the stockpile of material and spreads it over the width of the road and provides initial compaction.
Event Ticketing: Ticketing Systems: Barcodes on event tickets simplify the check-in process for attendees.
While line laser levels can be handy for things like hanging pictures, cross laser levels have a much wider range of uses, including painting and tiling.
In 2014 Stankoprom and the representative company of the German Siemens concern in Russia and Central Asia signed an agreement on cooperation in the development of complex high-precision machines, as well as the implementation of technical re-equipment projects for domestic enterprises.
Centrally mounted wheel Further annotations of the text by Pei Songzhi (430 AD) described the design in detail as a large single central wheel and axle around which a wooden frame was constructed in representation of an ox.
A negative pressure headspace will also counteract pressure caused by the thermal expansion of the wine, preventing the cork from being forced from the bottle.
Industrial Flow North America LLC, which has its head office in Houston, Texas is an American Customer Center of Atlas Copco that sells LEWA pumps.
Hose pumps are used for smaller volume concrete placing applications such as swimming pools, sidewalks, single family home concrete slabs and most ground slabs.
The payments included $450 million in fines and penalties and a forfeiture of $350 million in profits in the US.
In the early 1900s, NEA expanded its product portfolio to include piston steam engines, reciprocating compressors, vacuums, liquid pumps and drying systems.
With the exception of soft bottomed containers like cement bags, these conveyors can be utilized for almost all applications.
It contracted at the same time with Vulcan to build a shipyard as well as for licenses for Curtis-AEG-Vulcan turbines and Vulcan-Yarrow boilers.
built 110 steam hammers between 1843 and 1867 with different sizes and strike rates, but trending towards ever larger machines to handle the demands of large cannon, engine shafts and armor plate, with steel increasingly used in place of wrought iron.
Vanderlande is a material handling and logistics automation company based in Veghel, Netherlands and a subsidiary of Toyota Industries.
Ltd., Bangalore, India Exacom GmbH, Hanover, Germany Viscom also operates application and service centers around the globe.
References Letter sortere get faster, smarter Advanced Facer Canceler System 200 United States Postal Service
The lines bead rollers add to sheet metal prevent warping and disfigurement by adding structural integrity to the metal.
In 2001 Viscom tapped into yet another business sector with the introduction of its microsystem inspection.
Design specifications The XGC88000 crawler crane, unlike the majority of crawler cranes, comes in two sections.
A major repair can change the depreciable equipment value due to an extension in service life, while a minor repair is normal maintenance.
The mix is filled in a pouch that is made of paper or poly that is formed in a collar and the pouch gets sealed by a series of heaters and dies.
Cabinet and bench ovens are smaller batch ovens, and walk in/drive in ovens are larger and to be used for more variations of industrial applications.
Meanwhile, stabilizing powders like lime or cement are transferred from a powder material warehouse to the batch hopper by a spiral conveyor, and then moved to the belt feeder by a powder material feeder.
A hydraulic valve block regulates the oil flow and the oil pressure to the correct amount of the hydraulic motor leave.
The relocation of the lathe to Moruya in May 2010 was made possible by the coming together of key community members and the local Council to rescue this important part of New South Wales' industrial heritage.
Label sizes Following is a list of the label sizes popular for their LabelWriter (400, 450) printer series: Criticism The LabelWriter 550 and 5XL has an RFID reader that reads RFID tags embedded in Dymo genuine label rolls to automatically detect the label type inside.
Examples of these conveyors applied in the industrial assembly process include transporting materials to different floors.
Quality management systems sometimes ask for periodic subjective evaluations: For example, some seals can be evaluated by a simple pull to determine the existence of a bond and the mechanism of failure.
Drawing and stretching require too much tonnage and the mechanisms required for the operations are space prohibitive.
A year later, another facility was created in San Pietro in Gu (in the Province of Padua area) to manufacture complete pasta production lines.
Robinson Thwaites and Co grew from a firm of "3 seniors, 50 men and 6 boys" in 1851 to "130 men and 13 boys" (as Thwaites and Carbutt) by 1871.
The community recycling program Recycle for Good focuses on encouraging the public to deliver their recyclable waste to a collection point and practice the circular economy.
In 1975 HEPCO resumed operation in its premises in Arak consisting of 1,000,000 square meters of land & 40,000 square meters of production hall in collaboration with manufacturers such as Navistar International, Dynapac, Poclain, Sakai Heavy Industries and Lokomo.
In Austria, this coincided with the creation of Vöest-Alpine AG and between 1974 and 1976 several other companies joined the group, including Gebrüder Böhler & Co AG, Schoeller-Bleckmann Stahlwerke AG, and Steirische Gußstahlwerke AG, making up the "Vereinigte Edelstahlwerke AG (VEW).
See also RepRap Prusa i3 Prusa Mini References External links RepRap Ormerod page on RepRap.org Open Source repository on Github by RepRapPro
It was the second state owned company, after Eastern Cables Limited, in which BRB cables bought significant number of shares.
The Ukrainians were reportedly using these to secure the territory they captured in their 2023 counteroffensive.
The company then became a member of Bremen-based Vulkan AG and was renamed Vulkan Kranbau Eberswalde GmbH.
As compared to standard stamping presses the tooling is usually inexpensive, due to the simplicity of the tools.
Dymo Corporation is an American manufacturing company of handheld label printers and thermal-transfer printing tape as accessory, embossing tape label makers, and other printers such as CD and DVD labelers and durable medical equipment.
Dissolution With a changing market steering away from 19th century water-turbine factories, the business went into decline and entered bankruptcy in 1948, when it was bought by Irwin Sagalyn, who closed its foundry and changed the business's focus.
Construction and design Modern wrecking balls have had a slight re-shaping, with the metal sphere changed into a pear shape with a portion of the top cut off.
The machine operator moves it up or down by rotating it clockwise (to move it down) or counter-clockwise (to move it up).
Key models inherited from Morbidelli include the C1002V, a 997 cc V-twin cruiser, and the M502N, a 486 cc parallel-twin naked motorcycle, both of which were first shown at EICMA 2022.
Tie bars: The primary purpose of tie bars is to stabilize and guide the platens as they are moved to compress the mold.
Bubble instabilities In the case that the bubble formed from air injection is not handled with caution, the bubble may become unstable and deform in a number of different ways.
History Before the jig borer was developed, hole center location had been accomplished either with layout (either quickly-but-imprecisely or painstakingly-and-precisely) or with drill jigs (themselves made with painstaking-and-precise layout).
Government and Identification: ID Cards: Barcodes on government-issued identification cards, such as driver's licenses and passports, help streamline identity verification processes.
Extended core wrapping is the lowest initial investment stretch wrapping system as no machinery is purchased.
When shaping a ring or bangle with a triblet, it is typical to bend and solder the metal into a rough loop, then place it over the thinner end of the mandrel.
Recently label printer applicators have been introduced which have the power to store large amounts of data.
While larger batteries increase the purchase price, smaller batteries require good integration of the charging process into the operation.
The points in the polar coordinate system can be measured using a rule and protractor to get an approximate point, or the machine operator can use trigonometry to find the exact number needed for the machine to work.
Applications The typical uses of the Turbo mixer is for the production of PVC (dry-blend rigid or plasticized) and for other kinds of thermoplastic composites (like Master-Batch, Wood Plastic Composites, Additives, Thermoplastics Polymers).
The deflected beam exits the scanner spread at an opening angle, which is dependent on scanner design.
The only non self replicating parts on the printer are the motors, electronics, a glass build plate and one 686 bearing, the 3D printed parts take around 150 hours to create.
In 1955, the company participated in Achema, an exhibition in Frankfurt am Main, for the first time.
Sticky products Fresh meat and fish, whether in a sauce or not, poultry and cheese (including grated cheese) can be moved along by using belts or screw feeders rather than vibration.
The largest high-speed mixer known on the market has a tank volume of 2500 litres, which corresponds to a PVC batch size of about 1160 kg and is combined with a horizontal cooler 8600 L.
The forces during machining are dependent on depth of cut, feed rate, cutting speed, tool material and geometry, material of the work piece and other factors such as use of lubrication/cooling during machining.
It won the IRSST's 2011 "Work health and safety innovation" award at the 21st edition of the innovation awards organized by ADRIQ and its partners.
Wheel machines are favored for their processing ease, due to having only single (or in some cases, two) parisons, and mechanical repeatability.
The method of wheel rotation is typically conducted through an electric motor with a "pinion" gear or small gear to or in mesh with a rotating "bull" gear or large gear.
The safety device is intended to prevent the release of the bucket or attachment in the event of the failure of the hydraulic system, or other major failure of the attachment mechanism.
A primary function of these platforms is to address the challenge of aggregating data from a mixed fleet of equipment from various manufacturers into a single, unified interface.
After 43 years of cooperation, Beloit Italia was bought up when Beloit Corporation collapsed into bankruptcy.
Automation Packaging operations can be designed for variable package sizes and forms or for handling only uniform packages, where the machinery or packaging line is adjustable between production runs.
These two committees worked in close cooperation with each other and with manufacturers and users of engine lathes, turret lathes and automatic lathes in developing standards for spindle noses and chucks.
Automation In 2008, researchers from the CSIRO implemented remote-operation functionality for a Transmin rockbreaker located at Rio Tinto's West Angelas mine from Perth, over 1,000 km away.
Reporting out of Forbes indicates that United States government agencies and the Department of Justice have been trying to surveil and control the 3D2A movement but have largely been unsuccessful due to its decentralized and distributed form.
The first Morgan printer was designed by Quentin Harley, a South African engineer (working for Siemens at the time) at the House4Hack Makerspace in Centurion.
Wrecking balls are more likely to cause collateral damage, because it is difficult to completely control the swing of the ball.
As the required machining speeds become higher, the need for machines to be built with smaller diameter spindle components increases.
Unlike the underside of a heat sink, which needs to be smooth for maximum contact area with the heat source, the fins benefit from this roughness because it increases the fins' surface area on which to dissipate heat into the air.
Since the backhoe was invented, several companies such as Caterpillar and John Deere have changed the backhoe's back arm to be slightly curved like that of an excavator, which can allow more maneuverability.
McKenzie & Holland, Vulcan Iron Works, Worcester." Vulcan Iron Works, Langley Mill The G R Turner company's Vulcan Iron Works at Langley Mill, Derbyshire was built in 1874.
Double-action piston drum pumps can be self priming, delivering liquid on both the forward and the back stroke.
Renwick Jajneswar & Co Limited had been operating in a deficit and by January 2019 it had been months since workers were paid at the company.
Chute density: Divert points can be closer together so increasing chute density, resulting in better space utilisation.
A 5/300 was demonstrated at the 1939 New York World's Fair in New York City, in partnership with Pitney-Bowes who acted as Werkspoor's local sales agent.
These are single tubes attached to a ledger extending out from the scaffold at an angle of less than 75° and securely founded.
Typically collets offer higher levels of precision and accuracy than self-centering chucks, and have a shorter setting up time than independent-jaw chucks.
Assembled from components of cast iron with milled gears and shafts mounted on a bed of approximately 10 metres (33 ft) length with toothed rails for positioning the travelling end.
Description The typical 3D "bridge" CMM allows probe movement along three axes, X, Y, and Z, which are orthogonal to each other in a three-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system.
The axles are necessary to distribute the load evenly, allow operation on weight restricted roads, and reduce wear and tear on normal roads.
The lid or "end" is usually tinplated steel (food) or aluminum (drinks) while the body can be of metal (such as cans for beverages and soups), paperboard (whisky cans) or plastic.
Development of international safety standards A European standard in place since 1996 gives some guidance on the safety of quick couplers (EN474-1).
In ultrasonic welding, there are no connective bolts, nails, soldering materials, or adhesives necessary to bind the materials together.
The new Managing Director was Peter Wagner, who also took over the management of the newly created Industrial Division, consisting of the Lewa Group, Geveke NV, Nikkiso Cryo and Nikkiso's Japanese pump business.
In 2000 Kranbau Eberswalde was merged with the mechanical engineering company Kirow Leipzig Rail & Port AG and it continued operating under the name of KE Kranbau Eberswalde AG.
The firm has now expanded in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, China and India, with almost 10,000 employees.
These machines are necessary to work the modern materials required in a multitude of applications—new types of composite wood material, carbon fiber, and high strength materials such as titanium.
These levels are the Associate Plastics Welding Inspector (APWI), Plastics Welding Inspector (PWI), and Senior Plastics Welding Inspector (SPWI).
Products using this technology directly are automotive seatbelt springs, large power transformer winding strips, rotogravure plates, cable and hose clamps, gas tank straps, and window counterbalance springs.
During World War II KrausMaffei used thousands of prisoners of war and concentration camp internees as forced labor at its Munich-Allach plant to produce military equipment.
This doffer would feed a system of rollers that could feed the fiber onto spools or into machines that would immediately twist it into a thread.
In 1877 Thwaites and Carbutt supplied a rolling mill engine (see illustration) for the Eston Ironworks of Bolckow Vaughan and Co.
Alternative contact solutions adopt motorised wheels that propel a flat plate under the sorter through friction.
Vibratory bowl feeders are also used for automatic feeding of small to large and differently shaped industrial parts.
The height of the screed is controlled by a number of factors including the attack angle of the screed, weight and vibration of the screed, the material head and the towing force.
Additionally, 3D-printed receivers and even full guns such as the FGC-9 have been made entirely of 3D-printing and household techniques and technologies, which have placed law enforcement entities in a position where full enforcement becomes increasingly complex or in some cases almost impossible.
It identifies each item, determines its destination, and activates the appropriate cross-belt at the right moment.
Two forms are available: 'man-down' and 'man-riser', where the operator elevates with the load for increased visibility or for multilevel 'break bulk' order picking.
The name is an acronym for "TRANsport and SORting, Marchand and Andriessen", the last names of the inventors.
Often used for general-purpose forming work in the auto mechanic shop, machine shop, garage or basement shops, etc.
Tool belts are commonly used in construction, carpentry, electrical work, plumbing, and other trades where quick access to tools is essential.
The RepRap Ormerod is an open-source fused deposition modeling 3D printer and is part of the RepRap project.
They are used in numerous production and laboratory applications, including curing, drying, sterilizing, aging, and other process-critical applications.
The jig borer is a type of machine tool invented at the end of World War I to enable the quick and precise location of hole centers.
Operating principle All aggregates like lime, sand, soil, coal ash, and other materials are loaded into batching hoppers by a loading machine.
Silca distributes its products all over the world through 130 selected distributors and 8 Business units (Italy, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Netherlands, India and Brazil).
Several systems have been developed which use a heated platen placed on the material; the melted material is then pumped through a heated hose to its destination.
A Turbo mixer, also known as a high speed mixer or a tank mixer, is a type of industrial mixer that uses PVC for mixing raw materials to form a free-flowing powder blend.
This allows the machine operator to know which directions are positive and negative in the cartesian plane.
In 1973, the two nationalized iron and steel industries VÖEST and Österreichisch-Alpine Montangesellschaft (Alpine) merged and became Vöest-Alpine AG.
In the 1920s, SACMI was the target of arson perpetrated by the Blackshirts, who considered it as a "dangerous nest of the anti-Fascists".
In 2011, the company acquired Bidese Impianti and signed a partnership with Boart & Wire, a diamond wires manufacturer.
With this design, it became possible to produce continuous lengths of slubbing to feed into the next stage.
History From a local foundry… (1897-1957) In 1897, the Piedmontese entrepreneur Francesco Poccardi set up a local foundry in Pinerolo, next to the railway connecting Pinerolo and Turin.
As acknowledgement of his entrepreneurship, in 1991 the founder Fabio Perini is ordered Knight of the Italian Republic, under the Order of Merit for Labour.
The family-run company is one of the leading suppliers of vacuum technology in the fields of automation and manual handling and is also active in the energy storage business area.
Optical probes are lens-and-CCD systems, which are moved like the mechanical ones, and are aimed at the point of interest, instead of touching the material.
Other types of batch ovens are bench/laboratory, burn in, laboratory, walk in/truck in, and clean process.
Verification and validation protocols are used to ensure that specifications are met and final materials/packages are suited for end-use.
Financial indicators The company's revenue under IFRS in 2023 amounted to 26,007,318 thousand rubles, net profit was received in the amount of 3,462,836 thousand rubles.
One problem with this type of process is difficulty in removing the mandrel from the completed work.
The main benefit of using a one-trip thermal transfer ribbon is that providing the correct settings are applied prior to printing, a 100% density of printed image is guaranteed, in contrast to a pre-inked ribbon on a dot-matrix impact printer ribbon, which gradually fades with usage.
Mechanical and thermo-mechanical properties can be improved further if fiber is used as well as the granite.
is an American industrial company that specializes in the development and manufacturing of fluid-handling systems and products.
Out of this, the subcommittee TC43 was organized with members representing manufacturers, users of ball screws, and others of general interest.
It resembles a specialized kind of milling machine that provides tool and die makers with a higher degree of positioning precision (repeatability) and accuracy than those provided by general machines.
Both flight recorders were knocked offline, hydraulic lines were severed and most critically, the horizontal stabilizer actuator’s jackscrew was destroyed, rendering the aircraft uncontrollable.
Other than the obvious control of labor costs, quality can be more consistent, and throughput can be optimized.
Heavy equipment operator A heavy equipment operator drives and operates heavy equipment used in engineering and construction projects.
Abrasive brushes and linishing belts are typically used, the latter being a machine similar to a belt sander used for large surfaces.
During the 60s and 70s, the company was no longer focused mainly on flexible shafts and electric hand shears.
Paper, thermal plastic, plastic film, foil, or a combination thereof, is sealed to the mouth of a container (e.g., bottle) under the cap.
The position of a toolhead in a machine is important for repeatability, and in numerically controlled machines its position is often calibrated in a process called homing during a machine's startup procedure.
We do know that it turned Moruya granite and we know that by 1977 the Sydney company of Loveridge and Hudson had donated it to the then growing Lachlan Vintage Village in Forbes, an Old Sydney Town-type heritage village.
They are also used to cut pavement for road maintenance and to gain access to utilities under roads.
Asset Tracking: Barcode labels help organizations track and manage their assets, from computers and office equipment to tools and machinery.
A tool belt, tool harness, tool apron or a tool vest is a belt, apron, or harness worn around the waist, torso, or shoulders and fitted with pouches / pockets, loops, or holsters designed to hold and organize hand tools, equipment, and fasteners.
Many liquids used on manufacturing and processing plants are delivered in 100 or 200 litre barrels and are too heavy to tip to empty the liquids inside.
Mechanism Concrete pump designers face many challenges because concrete is heavy, viscous, abrasive, contains pieces of hard rock, and solidifies if not kept moving.
These traits allow bulldozers to excel in road building, construction, mining, forestry, land clearing, infrastructure development, and any other projects requiring highly mobile, powerful, and stable earth-moving equipment.
Principle of operation After programming the work pieces and entering length of bars the control automatically calculates the maximum number of pieces to be punched (for example, 18 pieces of a bar of 6000 mm).
A way (sometimes known as a slideway, guideway, or bedway) is a type of linear bearing, specifically a linear plain bearing, in a machine tool.
It has three main manufacturing plants around the world, which are located in three continents (Louisiana, USA; Istanbul, Turkey; and China).
References External links http://www.makeitmetal.com/resources/CH5_CNC_A.htm http://www.emachineshop.com/machine-shop/CNC-Turret-Punching/page90.html
This signal is generally used to watch for sudden events such as a tool breaking or a part becoming jammed.
The company develops, distributes, and produces high-temperature kilns for the industrial sector such as the ceramics industry, and is also active in the development of technologies for foam glass production and roller and rotary kilns for the lithium battery industry.
Stephen Holman, the company's treasurer, president, and largest shareholder during different times in its first decade, is credited as its founder, though the nature of his early involvement is not well documented.
Later, in 2010 the Kel'air duct cleaning company, a French company based in Bordeaux, acquired one of these, the first in the European market.
The RepRap Ormerod has a 200 mm × 200 mm × 200 mm build volume, uses a Bowden extruder, it also has a micro SD card and USB and Ethernet connections allowing it to be connected to a network.
The tiltrotator is nowadays controlled through machines two or four electro-proportionally controlled hydraulic lines.
Thus, each dryer cell can be individually controlled and the drying / cooling air flow can be varied in each cell.
Inductive heating with quantitative feedback such as that provided by power analysis techniques further allows for the possibility of dynamic adjustments in energy delivery profile to the target.
Originally developed to replace manual counting and weight-based estimation, these machines have evolved from mechanical vibratory systems to high-speed optical counters utilizing photoelectric sensors, lasers, and machine vision.
Most have adjustable speeds, and different speeds should be used for different materials and drill types, for example from 100-3600 r/min.
The relative strong inter-particle forces form lumps, which are not broken up by the mild transportation forces in the convective mixer.
High temperature The temperature that the vacuum table will be exposed to is also a factor that requires addressing.
Tools and equipment A tool belt can be configured to carry a wide variety of hand tools and accessories, depending on the trade.
Those machines are typically equipped with a linear die carrier (tool carrier) and quick change tools.
This machine, due to the kind of products was mixed, they have also an introduction of around 500 kg into the cooler mixer, and they can produce around 14 Ton/hour It was manufactured by the Italian company PROMIXON S.r.L.
The size and power of the excavator is typically selected based on the specific application and job requirements.
IMTEX (International Machine Tool & Manufacturing Technology Exhibition) is South and South-East Asia's largest machine tool and manufacturing show held annually at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre.
Since then, revenue has risen from around €1.5 billion in the 2005/06 financial year to €5.4 billion (2022/23).
Electrification The development of electric and hybrid-electric powertrains is an area of ongoing development in heavy equipment manufacturing.
Configurations Crawler excavators come in a wide range of sizes, from compact excavators weighing just a few tons up to massive mining-class machines weighing hundreds of tons.
Awards BIXI BIXI Montréal, utilizing Robotics Design Inc.’s modular docking station, was named the 19th best invention of 2008 by Time magazine.
Sub-harmonic vibrations, which can create annoying audible noise, may be caused in larger parts near the machine due to the ultrasonic welding frequency.
A tonnage monitor allows the user to observe this degradation and decide when it is time to sharpen and adjust the die.
Heat sealing is used for many applications, including heat seal connectors, thermally activated adhesives, and film or foil sealing.
His sons, Johann Jakob and Salomon produced cast iron and built fire extinguishers, pumps and apparatus for the textile industry; later, they also started installing heaters.
The facility manufactures linear motion (LM) guide systems used in the manufacturing of semiconductors, liquid crystals, amusement devices, and medical equipment.
Wide tracks also help distribute the vehicle's weight over a large area (decreasing ground pressure), thus preventing it from sinking in sandy or muddy ground.
Another metal skiving application is for hydraulic cylinders, where a round and smooth cylinder bore is required for proper actuation.
So, a machine has the capability of rolling 2-inch-thick material with the maximum mechanical advantage, but a job is only 1/2 inch thick.
The bottle then enters a "filler" which fills the bottle with beer and may also inject a small amount of inert gas (usually carbon dioxide or nitrogen) on top of the beer to disperse the oxygen, as oxygen can ruin the quality of the product via oxidation.
Critics argue that the company's presence in Russia undermines global efforts to isolate the aggressor state economically and diplomatically.
A belt dryer (belt drier) is a kind of industrial dryer which is used for continuous drying and cooling of woodchips, pellets, pastes, molded compounds, and panels using air, inert gas, or flue gas.
There are two different versions, depending on the design: Start on the X-axis (starting from the radius) or start on the Z-axis (direction of the spindle).
A shrink tunnel, referred to as an oven, may be equipped with an integrated conveyor of two different kinds: the roller conveyor or the belt conveyor.
Types of drawbars Threaded drawbars Threaded drawbars are used on milling machines, Industrial grinders and lathes.
A clean process oven is a type of industrial batch oven that is ideal for high-temperature applications, such as curing polyimide, and annealing thin and film waters.
Sometimes grinding machines (used for grinding down to smaller pieces) are also considered a part of woodworking machinery.
In other machine configurations, the molds utilize "book style" opening mechanisms, allowing multiple parisons of equal length.
Concrete moisture meters measure only the top inch at most and this area is drier than the concrete further down.
A steam hammer, also called a drop hammer, is an industrial power hammer driven by steam that is used for tasks such as shaping forgings and driving piles.
Following the war, more efficient methods for storing products in warehouses were implemented, and warehouses needed more maneuverable forklift trucks that could reach greater heights.
These printer applicators can be programmed with special languages such as Fingerprint designed by Intermec for Intermec print engines or MCL (Macro Command Language), a Datamax programming language.
As the vehicle moved along, these removed any surface material that had become stuck to the roll, to prevent a build-up of material and ensure a flat finish was maintained.
See also Uralmash Izhorsky Zavod Kakha Bendukidze Gazprombank References External links OMZ company website Archived 9 July 2018 at the Wayback Machine Skoda JS Archived 24 June 2013 at the Wayback Machine Uralmash Machine-Building Joint Venture
They also reduce the time needed to cut each piece of tape, therefore reducing labor costs and increasing productivity.
The cabin has an airconditioner, a seat, and a small sofa to accommodate three additional passengers.
Operation and design An MSS is generally used instead of a launching gantry to minimize the number of joints, since the cast in place segments typically are longer than precast segments.
Industrial and technical applications In technical applications, such as actuators, an Acme thread is used, although it has higher friction, because it is easy to manufacture, wear can be compensated for, it is stronger than a comparably sized square thread and it makes for smoother engagement.
In 1989, Siemens bought the solar photovoltaic business, including 3 solar module manufacturing plants, from industry pioneer ARCO Solar, owned by oil firm ARCO.
History In 1964 Italianapack, which produces horizontal flow packaging machines, is founded by Fioravanti Pietro in Vicenza.
In February 2012, the Canadian manufacturer Ballard Power Systems signed a deal with WEG to assess the market opportunities for hydrogen PEM fuel cell products and services in applications.
A computer scans the addresses of the mail, and sorts it to one of up to 286 pockets, setting it up for delivery by the letter carrier.
Most roofers work in a variety of weather conditions, sometimes severe heat, and resist wearing an apparatus such as a safety harness.
Some machine tools that specialize in high-volume mass production have a group of 4, 6, or even more main spindles.
Mechanical rebar connections, also known as mechanical splices or mechanical coupler, are used to join lengths of rebar together to transfer forces from one steel rebar to another.
It was recognized by the National Innovation Foundation – India in their fifth biennial competition.
Regularly checking the drawbar pull using a drawbar force gauge ensures the spindle and tool stay in tune so that your machine stays running efficiently.
In 2001 Kaba Holding AG took over the Unican Group, creating one of the largest companies worldwide operating within the security business.
History As of December 2025, the 3D2A movement has been called "a massive movement" and is seen as growing rapidly in many online communities, primarily, though not exclusively based in the United States.
Cordless scanner (or Wireless scanner) a cordless barcode scanner is operated by a battery fit inside it and is not connected to the electricity mains and transfer data to the connected device like PC.
Light towers are used when illumination is required but not otherwise available, both outdoor and indoor, usually temporarily.
Now label printer applicators can communicate directly with an array of devices and hosts on the production line without the aid of a computer.
These octahedra range from 8 mm to 25 mm on edge and are typically composed of magnesium oxide or another material that deforms ductilely over the range of experimental conditions, to make sure the experiment is under hydrostatic stress.
The first mechanized palletizer was designed, built, and installed in 1948 by a company formerly known as Lamson Corp.
XY tables are broadly used in mechanical processes and applications including material handling, industrial automation equipment, machinery building and automated measurement.
Books, general references Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
Steam turbines have been produced here since 1907 when the company was licensed to build French Rateau turbines.
Wavelengths in the range of 808 nm to 980 nm can be used to join various plastic material combinations.
Mixers commonly have multiple steering axles as well, which generally result in very large turning radii.
Complex products Using mix-weighing combined with a distribution system tailored to deliver separate components into a tray, a ready meal can be assembled with just the right quantities of, say, rice, meat and vegetables in the appropriate compartments.
Products PFM designs, builds and markets around 40 models of flow-wrapping and vertical form-fill-seal machines together with various automatic feed systems and multihead weighers.
The wheelbarrow is designed to distribute the weight of its load between the wheel and the operator, so enabling the convenient carriage of heavier and bulkier loads than would be possible were the weight carried entirely by the operator.
Today, PMMI U annually donates $100,000 to packaging students, member employees, and packaging schools.
In 1932, Maschinenfabrik Andritz had to temporarily cease production due to the global economic crisis.
Induction welding heat sealing by non-contact induction Ultrasonic welding uses high-frequency ultrasonic acoustic vibrations to workpieces being held together under pressure to create a weld.
In addition to Germany, Italy, Eastern Europe, the United States, China and Japan are among the most important markets for Schmalz.
The difference between the continuous and discontinuous filament winding machine is the area on which filament winding is laying out.
Version 3 Version 3 of the Hangprinter has the motors and gears attached to the ceiling, making the carriage lighter.
Clean room ovens – Designed for applications requiring a cleanroom, such as a semiconductor manufacturing or biotechnology processes.
A bar puller is a tool for automatically drawing in material (round tubes or solid bars) on a CNC lathe.
Most common engines used for gen-sets are Cummins, John Deere, Mitsubishi, Perkins, Lister Petter and Doosan and alternators are MeccAlte and Stamford.
While originally designed for filling creams, gels and lotions these fillers also handle water thin and heavy paste products.
The headquarters of the company are located in Leonberg (Stuttgart Metropolitan Region) in the south of Germany.
They mostly use some letters made up of metal or rubber and ink media like liquid ink or a ribbon or solid ink etc.
Components and Operation The main components of a cross-belt sorter include: Induction Area: This is where items are introduced onto the sorter.
Design improvements At first, the card clothing for wool mills was made in the form of sheets, and when attached to the cylinder and to all the rollers including the last doffer there were gaps of about an inch between the sheets.
These mats are commonly made of spruce, pine, fir or a combination thereof encased in a steel frame, though some suppliers also offer bamboo and fibreglass options.
Their launch was accompanied by a novel advertising campaign presenting diminutive figures in worker's overalls, but with the heads of horses.
When cooled, the polymer creates a bond with the container resulting in a hermetically sealed product.
Handle specialized requirements, such as vacuum packaging, inflatable packaging, skin packaging and pressure filling.
IMTEX and concurrent Tooltech exhibition was held in Bangalore for the first time in 2007, when IMTMA constructed a new venue called the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC).
Mannesmann acquired majority share of KraussMaffei in 1989, and bought out the remaining shares in 1996.
A source for vacuum in some applications may be as simple as a typical shop vac or vacuum cleaner, in a light application.
Vee (V-shaped) ways provide constraint to the perpendicular horizontal axis, but do little to prevent the slide from being lifted vertically.
Craftsmen use them to mark clapboard and brick courses so that, for example, a course ends neatly below a window sill or at a door's architrave.
After purchasing the company in 1928, Caterpillar went on to truly integrate the tractor and grader into one design—at the same time replacing crawler tracks with wheels to yield the first rubber-tire self-propelled grader, the Caterpillar Auto Patrol, released in 1931.
Thermal-transfer printing is a digital printing method in which material is applied to paper (or some other material) by melting a ribbon coating so it stays glued to the material on which the print is applied.
Their main products are air preheaters, boilers, butterfly valves, water turbines, reactors, fractionating columns and pressure vessels.
This configuration allows the drum to be emptied without tipping and so reduces the risk of spills and operator injury.
They also bring with them additional safety risks that must be overcome by careful design and manufacture, and proper use.
An entire department is dedicated to research and development, with a test laboratory and a semi-anechoic cell specific for NVH (Noise Vibration Harshness) tests.
In 1989, in order to resist a two billion dollar takeover attempt by a New York investment group (which included oil heir Gordon P.
The front loader's bucket capacity is generally much bigger than a bucket capacity of a backhoe loader.
More sophisticated systems also pre-stretch the film before wrapping by means of fixed/variable gear ratios or other, even more sophisticated means, such as hydraulic ratios which can better take advantage of film "sweet spots", improving performance and film savings.
However, two standards that have seen especially wide usage are the Morse #2 and the R8, whose prevalence was driven by the popularity of the mills built by Bridgeport Machines of Bridgeport, Connecticut.
Industrial ovens can be used for large or small volume applications, in batches or continuously with a conveyor line, and a variety of temperature ranges, sizes and configurations.
At the end of 1950 the company auctioned off all of its remaining tools for the purposes of manufacturing turbines, papermaking tools and other mechanical machinery, choosing to focus entirely on its precision roll and filter business in the paper and textile industries.
Other implement functions are typically hydraulically powered and can be directly controlled by levers, or by joystick inputs or electronic switches controlling electrohydraulic servo valves.
as part as Russia's Import substitution strategy to reduce the country's reliance on foreign-made machine tools.
Therefore it is recommended to not wear gloves, clothes with long sleeves or have long hair hanging while working.
A fourth son who also worked at the Vulcan Iron Works, William Henry Thwaites, married Mary Ann Stuttard of Colne, Lancashire on 23 October 1879, but died in 1882 aged 32.
Trucks and trailers Concrete mixing transport trucks Special concrete transport trucks (in-transit mixers) are made to mix concrete and transport it to the construction site.
In 1937, optical sorting technology had advanced to allow for systems based on a two-color principle of selection.
The era of motorization by traction engines, steam tractors, motor trucks, and tractors saw such towed graders grow in size and productivity.
He invented Bretonstone technology, also known as vibrocompression under vacuum, a patented technology which is used today by engineered stone manufacturers.
Application Hydraulic presses are commonly used for assembly and disassembly of tightly-fitting components.
The vehicle can maintain a top speed of 8 km/h (5 mph) unloaded, and 5 km/h (3 mph) carrying a bridge segment.
In 1918, it acquired the rights to manufacture diesel engines from Sulzer of Switzerland, helping to speed up the Japanese naval, marine, locomotive and automobile transport sectors.
X-Y tables, also known as cross working tables or coordinate tables, help provide horizontal motion for automated machinery such as assembly robots in manufacturing facilities.
Tonnage is required on all machines so that the clamps of the machine do not open due to the injection pressure.
Drum pump, barrel pump, and transfer pump refer to pumps that are used to empty barrels, tanks, IBCs and drums.
The Morgan name comes from the RepRap convention of naming printers after famous deceased biologists.
ITW Mima Packaging Systems is the European marketing division of ITW's Specialty Systems businesses, manufacturing fully automatic stretch wrapping machines in Finland, semi-automatic and automatic machines in Bulgaria and manufacturing film in Belgium and Ireland.
Starting from a drilled or cored hole, a shaper with a boring-bar type tool can cut internal features that do not lend themselves to milling or boring (such as irregularly shaped holes with tight corners).
In 2013, the acquisition of the German press manufacturer Schuler in Göppingen, Germany, the global market leader in metal forming technology, is the largest acquisition in the company's history to date.
This shape allows the ball to be more easily pulled back through a roof or concrete slab after it has broken through.
High Carbon Steel - Used for its strength and durability, this material can survive through the wear and tear applied by the drawbar.
Solid mats are lighter in weight than hollow mats but due to the simpler connection system provide the same or similar usable working surface area per mat once connected (10’ x 8’, 13.5’ x 6.5’).
The following are simple equations paraphrased from the Peurifoy & Schexnayder text: Operating cost For an expense to be classified as an operating cost, it must be incurred through use of the equipment.
In May 2023 it was announced that the US Patent Office rejected the wide claims of the SkyBAAM patent and would be settling on a much narrower patent instead.
This sorter configuration also allows for recirculation – A term that refers to items that can remain on the sorter loop without needing to be ejected.
In the early 2010s, SIG started to promote as a world first extra-slim small-format carton packs starting from 80ml tailored for children especially in fast-growing regions as Asia and Middle East.
In February 2017, MakerBot's newly minted CEO Nadav Goshen laid off more than 30% of the workforce and changed the position of the company from consumer focused to two verticals based; professional and the education sector.
Kaba Holding AG is listed on the SIX Swiss Stock Exchange and employs around 7,500 people in more than 60 countries.
Almost always, the lights are attached to the mast, which is attached to a trailer, with a generator set to power the lamps.
This design combines automated part feed with simultaneous operations, enabling rapid completion of parts.
Hydraulic presses are also used for waste processing operations such as in garbage trucks and car crushers to reduce the size of waste material for easier more economic transportation.
In 2003, the diaphragm pump LEWA ecoflow came into the market, which has been a major support to the company's income since then.
An optical tracer is an X-Y tooling machine which utilises a photoeye to track toolpaths printed on a full-scale drawing and move a tool head accordingly.
Description A tiltrotator can best be described as a wrist between the arm of the excavator and bucket, or whatever other tool is fitted to the tiltrotator's quick coupler.
In logistics, a sorter is a system which performs sortation of products (goods, luggage, mail, etc.) according to their destinations.
A dumper has a body which tilts or opens at the back for unloading and is usually an open 4-wheeled vehicle with the load skip in front of the driver.
With advances in technology, machine-tool dynamometers are increasingly used for the accurate measurement of forces and for optimizing the machining process.
This innovation was met with interest from other persons needing a lighter artificial leg; and it resulted in the founding of the Desoutter Company, headed by Marcel Desoutter.
A more advanced device may be accurate to within 0.3 mm/m; while lower-end models may be closer to 1.5 mm/m.
The amount of platens in any given IMM varies; however, the industry standard uses three support platens, wherein the central one is movable to enable opening and closing.
Specifications Source: Type: Push down Height: 87 feet (27 m), 36 feet (11 m) below ground level and 51 feet (16 m) above.
Common elements of sorters A feeder system whose sole purpose to feed the products into the sorter in proper orientation and with proper spacing, so that the sorter could operate correctly.
Information In the simplest turntable systems, stretch is achieved by rotating the load at a speed in which the take-up demand on the load surface is faster than the rate at which the film is allowed to be fed, being limited by a brake system.
Three point road graders can be viewed as a specific type of box blade, and are used to grade and maintain dirt and gravel roads.
Although acceptable in quality, the printouts from these printers cannot compare with modern inkjet printers and color laser printers.
In materials science this includes the synthesis of novel or useful materials with potential mechanical or electronic applications, such as high-pressure super conductors or ultra-hard substances.
The association has actively supported initiatives for advancement of metalworking manufacturing industry in India.
The forcer glides over the platen on frictionless air bearings and moves continuously in a linear motion across the platen.
Engineers from Kobe Steel played a major role in the establishment and early operation of Planta de Pellets in the Chilean Iron Belt in 1978.
It was soon found that a hammer with a relatively short fall height was more effective than a taller machine.
Due to the lack of long-term stability and very poor damping properties, steel fabricated structures are seldom used where high precision is required.
In 2017, Midea became embroiled in a controversy involving millions of defective air conditioner/humidifier units made for many US brands.
Particularly when an inflatable mast is used, the lights may be placed close to the ground, with a reflector attached to the mast.
Dymo was acquired by Esselte in 1978, and battery-powered printers became a major product after 1990.
An example of peculiar press control: servo-press A servomechanism press, also known as a servo press or an 'electro-press, is a press driven by an AC servo motor.
In 1999, Voest-Alpine Industries, part of VA Tech North America, moved all its Pittsburgh operations to Southpointe in Washington County.
Feeding, printing, collecting operation are done automatically, however these features vary in the different makes of machines.
Electrostatic chucks may have pins, or mesas, the height of which is included in the reported dielectric thickness; a design by Sandia National Laboratory uses a patterned silicon-dioxide dielectric to form the pins.
Although the earliest models were towed behind horses, and later tractors, most modern graders are self-propelled and thus technically "motor graders".
The cartesian coordinate system is a set of three number lines labeled X, Y, and Z, which are used to determine the point in the workspace that the machine needs to operate in.
Metal machining utilising the spinning process has been recorded as far back as ancient Egyptian times.
Technical information Parts include: screw and barrel, motor, inverter, heaters, die head, winder, and tower.
The letters are made offset, so while printing they give mirror image and straight print is obtained.
With the Spartacos two sons Roberto and Mauro involved in the family business, the staff was expanded and the internal structure modified.
In Australia the authorities took the view that the problems were caused by designs of quick couplers that did not incorporate a safety pin.
Apart from its headquarters and "innovation centre" in Veghel, Vanderlande has additional production and service locations in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France, Spain, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, China, India, South Africa, and the United States.
The second section is a separate tracked compartment which essentially holds the crane's counterweight in total.
Finally, the feeding belt conveyor takes the final product and delivers it to the storage warehouse.
At the time, Poulsen worked with Drostholm Ltd., the company that acquired all the rights to utilize his inventions.
They can be equipped with different types of cutting systems: horizontal shaft design, vertical shaft design, single-shaft, two-shaft, three-shaft and four-shaft cutting systems.
It is very important to size the press and tonnage based on the type of applications, blanking, forming, progressive, or transfer.
is an Italian joint-stock company headquartered in Casale Monferrato, which designs and manufactures rotogravure and flexo printing presses and related equipment for magazine and newspaper production, and for the printing and converting of packaging materials.
In the United States, they are often referred to as "backhoes", although the term 'backhoe' only refers to one component.
A plate rolling machine is a machine that will roll different kinds of sheet metal into a round or conical shape.
History Hibar was started in 1974 when German-born Canadian engineer Heinz Barall developed a prototype of a precision metering pump that would dispense a small, precise amount (two microlitres) of electrolytes into button cell batteries.
With the more common double-acting steam hammer, steam is also used to push the ram down, giving a more powerful blow at the die.
MBP, based in Mantua, specialise in the production of multi-head weighers and vertical packaging machines thereby completing the range offered by PFM.
Models RepRap Mendel First conceived in 2009, RepRap Mendel 3D printers were designed to be assembled from 3D printed parts and commonly available off-the-shelf components (referred to as "vitamins," as they cannot be produced by the printer itself).
Gummed (water-activated) tape dispenser Gummed (water activated) tape dispensers measure, dispense, moisten, and cut gummed or water-activated adhesive tape.
See also Conveyor systems Conveyor belt Chain conveyor Line shaft References External links Media related to Roller conveyors at Wikimedia Commons
SBO products include drill bits, downhole tools, and other specialized equipment used in the exploration and production of oil and gas.
An example of a large launching gantry is the SLJ900/32 designed in China by the Shijiazhuang Railway Design Institute and manufactured by the Beijing Wowjoint Machinery Company.
Once the heating cycle is finished, the heat is turned off, the treated material is removed, and a new load is placed inside.
San Francisco A Vulcan Iron Works was established at 135 Fremont Street, San Francisco in 1850 during the California gold rush.
Combined Cycle Power Plant, Iran[2] Abadan Petrochemical Plant, Iran[3] The corporation has ISO 9001 certification[4] and is a member of the Association of Iran Industry Equipment Manufacturers[5].
In the bed mill, however, the table moves only perpendicular to the spindle's axis, while the spindle itself moves parallel to its own axis.
Version 4 Version 4 includes upgrades from version 3 including flex compensation, better calibration and automatic homing.
In 2024, SACMI achieved a turnover of 1.728 billion euros, with over 4,700 employees, 70 production, distribution and service companies in 25 countries worldwide.
As a result of needing both an uncumbered work environment and the need to stay as cool as possible, roofers prefer the toe board due to its freeness of movement.
Usage Heat guns are used in physics, materials science, chemistry, engineering, and other laboratory and workshop settings.
Where the Inuits [sic] have intercourse with white men, they barter for cheese-knives or long-bladed butcher-knives, remove the double-handle from the tang, and put on a single one about three times as long, which can be readily grasped by both hands.
If using high-quality components and taking care to assemble them properly, one can achieve high speed, precision and reliability.
Often the bucket can be replaced with other devices or tools—for example, many can mount forks to lift heavy pallets or shipping containers, and a hydraulically opening "clamshell" bucket allows a loader to act as a light dozer or scraper.
1933 to 1945 Siemens (at the time: Siemens-Schuckert) exploited the forced labour of deported people in extermination camps.
As of 2021 they were still the second largest manufacturer of cobots with 10% of the market share to Universal Robotic’s 50%.
Earlier versions of these gauges sometimes also used a sealed hydraulic cavity with a pressure gauge to measure and display force.
In geology a tungsten carbide coated hydraulic press is used in the rock crushing stage of preparing samples for geochemical analyses in topics such as understanding the origins of volcanism.
STEP-NC is a machine tool control language that extends the ISO 10303 STEP standards with the machining model in ISO 14649, adding geometric dimension and tolerance data for inspection, and the STEP PDM model for integration into the wider enterprise.
Another common element are receptacles which receive the products as they leave the sorter towards a proper destination.
The tape gun is designed to dispense straight and smooth pieces of tape, working in the same way as tape dispensers do for pressure-sensitive tape.
Changing an unimportant dimension such as the width of a ventilation slot may match an available tool, requiring a single cut, rather than cutting each side separately.
In either case, the launching gantry girders and hangers essentially serve as falsework prior to tensioning.
(HS Penta; Hydrocar; Modenflex Hydraulics; PZB); Mega Pacific New Zealand; Mega Pacific Pty Ltd; Muncie Power Products, Inc.; Oleodinamica Panni S.r.l.
Unions may offer hard hat stickers to their members to promote the union, encourage safety, and commemorate significant milestones.
The Bewerly(sic) site had food halls seating 700 employees, break rooms, leisure facilities, apprenticeship and a hospital.
In the first decade of 2000 Silca has increased the functions and technologies applied to its key cutting machines and the launch of customised finishing for key blanks.
A high-speed machine used by the US Postal Service to cull, face, and cancel letter mail through a series of automated operations.
A robotic arm is often used to remove the molded components; either by side or top entry, but it is more common for parts to drop out of the mold, through a chute and into a container.
Other Components & Controls Typically, presses are electronically linked (with a programmable logic controller) to an automatic feeder which feeds metal raw material through the die.
This includes many packaging processes: fabrication, cleaning, filling, sealing, combining, labeling, overwrapping, palletizing.
Hibar Systems Ltd was a Canadian manufacturer of automated, precision liquid dispensing and filling systems.
However, when it comes to absolute size, movability, and strength, the title still goes to the Honghai Crane which runs on rails.
In August 2024, China’s Baoshan Iron and Steel (Baosteel) and Baowu Aluminum partnered with Kobe Steel to establish a joint venture for producing aluminum sheets for the automotive industry.
Products and applications YASA offer a range of off-the-shelf and custom motors for use in a number of applications such as electric (BEV) and hybrid vehicle drivetrain, power generation and hydraulics replacement systems.
This method securely clamps the raw material and allows for accurate machining into the desired final form.
Both overhead (forms suspended from support girder(s) above the bridge deck level) and underslung (forms supported by support girder(s) below bridge deck level) MSS are available.
The snow knife was originally made from available materials such as bone or horn but the Inuit adapted to using metal after the arrival of Europeans.
A CAM process first converts the CAD design for the finished item into the number of individual punch operations needed, depending on the tools available in the turret.
A punch is less flexible than a laser for cutting compound shapes, but faster for repetitive shapes (for example, the grille of an air-conditioning unit).
The acquisition of Sprout-Bauer, a mechanical engineering company based in Pennsylvania (USA), marked the start of a successful expansion policy.
Mechanisms Label printers use a wide range of label materials, including paper and synthetic polymer ("plastic") materials.
Work in which the spindle's axial movement is normal to one plane, with an endmill as the cutter, lends itself to a vertical mill, where the operator can stand before the machine and have easy access to the cutting action by looking down upon it.
A load is placed on a turntable, which rotates relative to the film roll, which is housed in a carriage attached to a vertical "mast" on which it may move up and down.
It was established in 2013 on the initiative of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of Russia and Rostec State Corporation.
The B5 Standards Committee operates under procedures of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).
Common items include: Electrician's tools and equipment See also Fanny pack List of tools and equipment Personal protective equipment Tool bag Woodshop (workspace) Workshop == References ==
The prevalence and availability of 3D-printed guns is seen to be rising rapidly, with 19,000 so called "ghost guns" recovered by law enforcement in 2021.
History Until the early 20th century, concrete was mixed on the job site and transported from the cement mixer to the formwork, either in wheelbarrows or in buckets lifted by cranes.
The fins may be made much thinner and closer together than by extrusion or formed sheet processes, which can offer greater heat transfer in high-performance waterblocks for water cooling.
On June 1, 1998, CoStar Corporation, the manufacturer of the LabelWriter brand of thermal label printers, was acquired by Esselte Office Products.
In 2010, the company's ANAT technology was recognized as a nominee for the 2010 Manning Innovation Awards.
Industrial agitators Industrial agitators help in mixing, reaction, improving heat transfer, maintaining uniformity of stored materials, and dissolving or dispersing solid particles and immiscible liquids.
Haloila became part of the Illinois Tool Works (ITW) in 1995, and shortly after this, ITW acquired the stretch film business from Mobil and ITW Mima Packaging System was formed.
No Z-axis or cut commands can be read from the drawing, so an operator was still required to tell the machine, when and how deep it should cut.
The advantage of having the variable three roll is the ability to roll many thicknesses and diameters of cylinders.
Vibrating conveyors have been built to convey material at angles exceeding 45° from horizontal using special pan shapes.
As a result, the clamping system will remain in good shape for fewer and fewer "cycles", or "clamp/unclamp" procedures.
Jack posts are mostly used for shoring as temporary supports during construction, repair, or alteration work, and should not be confused with scaffolding that provides platforms for workers and materials, nor Lally columns placed as permanent structural supports.
Two or more operations such as forming, drawing, extruding, embossing may be combined on the component with various cutting operations like blanking, piercing, broaching and cut off takes place- it can perform a cutting and non-cutting operations in a single tool.
In the United States, the National Insurance Crime Bureau estimated that by 2007 more than $1 billion in construction equipment was stolen each year.
Executive committee The seal of recognition of IMTMA was affirmed at the first meeting of the association's executive committee on 28 August 1947 at Indian Merchant's Chamber in Bombay.
Mixed case palletizing Mixed case palletizing is a real-world application variant of the 3D bin packing problem, where the goal is to stack mixed size cases onto a pallet in such a way it optimizes the space use i.e., stack as many cases onto a minimum amount of pallets.
The space in between the rollers is filled with hot air from the bottom of the tunnel to shrink the film layer around the object, creating a sealed package.
CNC machines used with spindles The type of computer numerical control (CNC) machine being used with your spindle will vary.
Machines and plants by Breton can be used in diverse sectors such as die-making, aerospace, automotive, racing cars, energy, gears, general mechanics, stone processing and kitchen top manufacturing.
Extruded tubular processing is most often used with polyethylene films but can be used with other polymers.
The third axis of movement (Z axis) is provided by the addition of a vertical quill or spindle which moves up and down through the center of the carriage.
L.L.C., more than 450 items of stolen construction equipment were reported to Japan Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association in 2008 in Japan alone.
Working principle A belt dryer or belt cooler is a device designed for the particularly gentle thermal treatment of product.
The bucket could be attached to the lifting hook of a crane, at the end of the arm of an excavating machine, to the wires of a dragline excavator, to the arms of a power shovel or a tractor equipped with a backhoe loader or to a loader, or to a dredge.
See also Articulated hauler Dump truck Haul truck External links Youtube video of starting an old-type dumper after over 4 months unused == References ==
Thing-O-Matic Introduced in September 2010 at Maker Faire NYC, the Thing-O-Matic was MakerBot's second kit.
Functionality Though bead rollers come in many different sizes and shapes, they all use one convex and one concave piece of metal that press together to create indentations in the sheet metal.
Initially producing electric motors, WEG started diversifying its activities during the eighties, with the production of electric components, products for industrial automation, power and distribution transformers, liquid and powder paints and electrical insulation varnishes.
The third and last type of singularity in wrist-partitioned vertically articulated six-axis robots occurs when the wrist's center lies in the same plane as axes 2 and 3.
Construction process is done via the vehicle picking up a new pre-cast section of concrete underneath its "belly" and carrying it all the way from the very edge of the bridge to the installation point, where it will be connected to a predetermined pillar.
History In 1972, THK became the first company in the world to develop a method of linear motion with rolling contact and began manufacturing and selling linear guides (profiled rail guides) under the LM Guide brand.
The e-motors feature power densities up to 20 kW/kg (12 hp/lb) in vehicle applications that include P2 Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain, P4 traction motor for e-axle and REx (range-extension).
Clamshell bucket The clamshell bucket is a more sophisticated articulated several-piece device, including two elementary buckets associated on a hinged structure forming a claws-like appendage with an internal volume.
In 2006 Motovario was taken over by the Italian investment fund Synergo SGR to manage the company's development and support its growth worldwide.
The company was based in the Veghel canal and produced unloading equipment including conveyors and cranes for various purposes.
Although not required, fine-pitch manufactured pulleys and LM8UU linear bearings were recommended over printed equivalents for "professional" results.
Line laser levels are used wherever precise verticals and horizontals are required, typically in the construction and cabinetry industries.
Aside from their size, these frequently look no different from the screw jacks used to lift buildings off their foundations.
An industrial shredder is any shredder that can be used in an industrial application (rather than a consumer application).
Other limits are the travel on the slides, which maxes out at 3⁄4 in (19.05 mm), and the throw of the forming cams, which is between 7⁄8 and 2 in (22 and 51 mm).
This is simpler than setting up a manual indexing head because there is no need to interchange indexing plates or to calculate which hole positions to use.
IPD also has different fine-finish pump packages which can spray with air, assisted by air, or airless.
Mechanical brake stretch wrappers are manual stretch wrapping systems which consist of a simple structure supporting a roll of film to be stretched and a mechanical brake which acts on the film roll, creating resistance to turning and stretching the film as it is fed out.
8, 12 or 16 m/min) Panel boring equipment classified by number of boring heads Single line boring machine Multi line boring machine Panel automatic packing equipment See also List of production topics References External links Media related to Woodworking machinery at Wikimedia Commons
The meters are used to "'Spot check' the top surface at one particular location on the slab." The results can determine the best place to put a concrete relative humidity test.
Criticism Schoeller-Bleckmann has faced criticism for continuing its operations in Russia despite the country's ongoing invasion of Ukraine.
Most turret punches are CNC-controlled, with automatic positioning of the metal sheet beneath the tool and programmed selection of particular tools.
In 1942 the Germans moved one of the Dutch Transormas to Steglitz in Berlin and another to Mönchengladbach in the Ruhr.
L., Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology, John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Can and end/lid standards Guide to can defects Can history timeline
Weight: approximately 8000 tons Stroke: 6 feet (1.8 m) Daylight: 15 feet (4.6 m) Operating hydraulic pressure: 4,500 psi (31,000 kPa) Number of rams: 8 References External links Historic American Engineering Record (HAER) No.
In 2011, Transmin developed the first commercially available automation system for pedestal rockbreakers.
Description The hammer is composed of four distinct parts — the foundation including the anvil, the legs, the steam cylinder and its valves and linkages, and finally, the active mass itself — the piston, piston rod, hammerhead and die.
Waste granite filings are produced in the mining industry, and the low density means this can be easily dispersed by winds and thus distributed in the environment.
They are successfully used at works in Ukraine, Spain, China, Russia, Germany, Italy, Japan, Brasil, Korea, India and Turkey.
This type of trencher can cut ground that is too hard to cut with a bucket-type excavator, and can also cut narrow and deep trenches.
The founders were Luigi Santandrea, Filiberto Gamberini, Tiepolo Castaldi, Paolo Nonni, Giovanni Bartoli, Guido Selvatici, Vincenzo Franceschelli, Aldo Galassi, and Armando Panari.
The 5th-century Book of Later Han stated that the wife of the once poor and youthful imperial censor Bao Xuan helped him push a lu che back to his village during their feeble wedding ceremony, around 30 BC.
The event includes product launches, live equipment demos, and high-level conferences by CII, Builders Association of India (BAI), and Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers' Association (ICEMA).
Label dispensers and label applicators are machines built to simplify the process of removing a label from its liner or backing tape.
At the beginning of 1998, Andritz acquired a majority stake in Sundwiger Eisenhütte Maschinenfabrik GmbH & Co.
The public shareholders do not have a director on the Board of Directors representing their interests.
Online These machine works automatically online with other machines or they can be of continuous type with feeding from other machine, by hand or other feeding mechanisms, but are integrated or attached in line with other online machines.
The RepRap Snappy is able to create 73% of its own parts by volume with a design that eliminates as many of the non 3D printed parts as possible including belts and bearings which are replaced with a rack and pinion system.
Ways have been used since the 19th century and are a critical part of manufacturing processes, especially those requiring high tolerances such as machining.
The design files for the printer are available on GitHub for download, modification and redistribution.
Access Mats Access mats are a category of matting that are generally used to provide temporary roads and worksites.
Finally, this machine is only feasible to use on high volume parts because of the long lead time required to set up the tooling.
The French companies Georges Renault in 1989 and Seti-Tec in 2011, the British Pivotware in 2015, German Nexonar in 2022, American Tech-motive in 2005 and the Swedish Scan Rotor in 2004 have been integrated in the Desoutter Tools company.
Also, high-powered welders with frequencies of 15 kHz and 20 kHz typically emit a potentially damaging high-pitched squeal in the range of human hearing.
These early designs bore a resemblance to the steel M1917 "Brodie" military helmet that served as their inspiration.
Heat guns are also used to make plastics such as PVC piping pliable for the purposes of bending, to soften wax and adhesives such as that used in electronics, and to thaw out frozen copper pipes.
Drum rotator is used to invert and rotate drums as well as transfer contents from one container to another.
Co-operation between companies was already well established, with Wegmann supplying tank turrets, among other things.
The firm started out as "Engineers, Millwrights, Iron & Brass Founders, Plumbers etc", according to the listing in Kelly's Directory.
Fischer & Co, a manufacturer of electrostatic finishing products, sales continued to climb, reflecting an industry-wide shift in automobile painting from air-based to electrostatic technologies.
Mixed case palletizing is subject to additional challenges as it not only requires robotics to grab the oncoming item i.e., determine the position of the product and robot kinematics to actually pick it up, but also to determine the size and optimal placement position on the pallet.
Reach-in ovens can be used in numerous production and laboratory applications, including curing, drying, sterilizing, aging, and other process-critical applications.
The tonnage monitor may provide any of the following additional features: Warning indication when the load exceeds a setpoint A press stop signal to halt the press at the top of the stroke for when the load exceeds a set point.
(1970), Foundations of Mechanical Accuracy (1st ed.), Bridgeport, Connecticut, US: Moore Special Tool Co., LCCN 73127307.
Because of this, many stretch wrap users opt for low cost hand wrappers such as "hand savers" or mechanical brake systems.
Midea opened its first overseas production facilities in 2007, in the Vietnam Industrial Park outside of Ho Chi Minh City.
The tooling of a turret punch uses a large number of standard punch tools: holes of varying sizes, straight edges, commonly used notches or mounting holes.
The company sold its water turbine business (Sulzer Hydra) to the Austrian technology company VA Tech.
See also Hot stapler Thermoforming Shrink tunnel References External links Media related to Heat guns at Wikimedia Commons
In this method a sample is implanted with objects, such platinum spheres, that have different density and neutron scattering properties compared to the material surrounding them, and the path of the object is tracked as it sinks, or floats, through the melt.
There have been two versions of the Ormerod, the Ormerod 1 was released in December 2013 and the Ormerod 2 released in December 2014.
In 2000 Krauss-Maffei Kunststofftechnik GmbH took over the KrausMaffei trademarks following dissolution of Mannesmann Group.
The bucket has an inner volume as compared to other types of machine attachments like blades or shovels.
Variants With all aspects of the design freely available under open source and open hardware terms, companies and individuals around the world have produced Prusa i3 copies, variants, and upgrades in assembled and kit form, with thousands offered for sale as early as 2015.
In 1975, the Swiss military replaced the P210 with the P220, dubbed the "Pistole 75", which was the first product of a partnership with J.P.
The company also acquired control of Rotec’s gas turbine service business (Rotec GT) in Russia, becoming a sizeable player in the Russian gas turbine service market.
While superficially similar, launching gantry machines should not be confused with movable scaffolding systems, which also are used in segmental bridge construction.
As a vacuum pump, generally, is designed for high vacuum as opposed to high volume, air dams can be used, again, to increase clamping force.
A machine-tool dynamometer is a multi-component dynamometer that is used to measure forces during the use of the machine tool.
This involves controlled heating an electrically conducting object (usually aluminum foil) by electromagnetic induction, through heat generated in the object by eddy currents.
In 2005 the branch relating to professional cleaning machines was sold following a repositioning in the most technological sectors.
This process can be difficult since consistent tension must be maintained for the label to peel off the liner and onto the applicator.
In 2019, a report by McKinsey & Company found that in certain areas, the total cost of operating electric construction machinery was already 30% lower than comparable diesel models.
History The celebration of the 100th meeting in 2022 will mark the 100th consecutive year the ASME B5 committee has met.
Instead of warming the surrounding air, the system emits targeted wavelengths that are absorbed by the product itself.
The thread profile of such screws is approximately semicircular (commonly a "gothic arch" profile) to properly mate with the bearing balls.
Bucket crushers are primarily employed in mining and demolition for the breaking-down of crude minerals, concrete and masonry.
Cross belt sorter Paddle sorter Pop-up transfer sorter Lineshaft pop-up wheel sorter Pop-up steerable roller sorter Pusher or puller sorter Parcel Singulator Line Sorter Shoe sorter Slide tray sorter Split tray sorter (bomb-bay sorter) Tilt tray sorter == References ==
Toolheads can allow for a modular assembly or easier change of tools for different tasks or maintenance.
This flatness is required to both provide good results in the manufactured parts, as well as prevent the stick-slip phenomenon (jerking motion due to friction at low speeds).
Currently, the corporation runs 11 factories worldwide - 5 in Japan, 2 in China, 1 in Singapore, 1 in the US, 1 in the UK, 1 in India.
The RepRap Snappy received an honourable mention in the Uplift Prize Grand Personal Manufacturing Prize.
The end of arm tooling has evolved in recent years to accommodate a variation of pack pattern and package types.
Their names were used in the development codenames for the first two generations of Morgan 3D Printers.
A hydraulic press is featured prominently in the Sherlock Holmes story "The Adventure of the Engineer's Thumb".
Background One of the earliest British dumpers was the Muir-Hill, which was based on the Fordson tractor with 2 cubic yard bucket, driving on the front axle and steered by the back wheels.
Other designs used two threaded pipes instead of sliding sections, ratechetting or clamping sections, or other similar concepts to lock the system at a specific length.
Larger bench and floor models are built to meet different production needs from pilot plants to large volume productions.
They receive the package from a previous automation stage, apply the label, and feed the package to the next stage in the packaging line.
Background Before automated counting, the agricultural industry often packed seeds by weight while selling them by specific seed counts.
Overflow pressure fillers are the most popular machines with beverage makers, while gravity filling machines are most cost effective.
Generally press tools are categorized by the types of operation performed using the tool, such as blanking, piercing, bending, forming, forging, trimming etc.
Rubber track dumpers offer even weight distribution for transporting heavy payloads over challenging terrains like mud or snow, popular in certain regions.
Linear-motion guide rails of type MGN7, MGN9 or MGN12 are used along the three axes (alternatively guide rods can be used).
WEG will also integrate a team of approximately 2,800 employees operating in 10 factories located in seven countries (United States, Mexico, China, India, Italy, the Netherlands, and Canada), as well as commercial subsidiaries in 11 countries.
Some tool belts are part of a larger harness, suspenders, or vest system over the shoulders to distribute weight and reduce strain on the lower back and waist.
Seed funding of $75,000 was provided by Jake Lodwick ($50,000) and Adrian Bowyer and his wife, Christine ($25,000).
Incidents Construction equipment is believed to be targeted by thieves because it is often poorly secured, easily disguised and very expensive.
This machine was based on a patent for coordinate guidance that Trumpf had registered in 1957 as the result of Leibinger's diploma thesis.
Around the mid-1990s, the company decided to expand into the machine tool market, manufacturing machining centres for the mechanical industry.
A tiltrotator is mounted on the excavator such that the excavator bucket can be rotated through 360 degrees and one tilts +/- 45 degrees, in order to increase the flexibility and precision of the excavator.
Material The housing can be made of aluminium or steel, the top jaws are made of case-hardened steel, tempered steel and burnished.
The Moruya Antique Tractor and Machinery Association (MATMA) suggests that a collection of historic photographs show the Lathe situated at Louttit's quarry, Moruya, at one stage.
A bead roller is a machine tool that makes rigid lines in sheet metal to make surfaces more rugged and durable.
Waste materials such as municipal solid waste, radioactive waste, medical waste, and hazardous waste are shredded in treatment and disposal systems.
A multihead weigher is a fast, accurate and reliable weighing machine, used in packing both food and non-food products.
Magnetic properties can be measured using amplified nuclear magnetic resonance in specially configured multi-anvils.
Robotic arms and other automated machinery have only a limited range of motion while their bases remain stationary; X-Y tables allow this basis to move horizontally along X and Y axis.
In manufacturing, they are used for forging, clinching, molding, blanking, punching, deep drawing, and metal forming operations.
A PC cooler created by skiving has the benefit that the heat sink base and fins are created from a single piece of material (copper or aluminum), providing improved heat dissipation and heat transfer from base to fins.
Large field-of-view readers use high resolution industrial cameras to capture multiple bar codes simultaneously.
The printer is part of the RepRap project, meaning many of the parts of the printer are able to be produced on the printer itself (partially self replicating).
Small bench models are used for bench-top development work, laboratory work, and low volume production.
Core business and products Silca's core business is represented by the production of key blanks, with a product range of over 66,000 items designed for the most diverse uses, from airplanes to mail-boxes keys.
Can seamer setup Seamer setup is usually done by an experienced individual, typically using a lifter height gauge, lifter height pressure gauge, and feeler gauges (small pieces of metal for go/no go testing of the distances between the roll and chuck toolings).
While similar in look to freight elevators, vertical conveyors are not equipped to transport people, only materials.
The trade fair provides platform for construction equipment manufacturers, component suppliers, and service providers to showcase their products and services.
The Prusa i3 used a rigid, single-piece water jet cut aluminium vertical frame with a large opening for the printing area and hard mounting points for the Z-axis components, similar to the Mendel90.
Machines can be divided into the bigger stationary machines where the machine remains stationary while the material is moved over the machine, and hand-held power tools, where the tool is moved over the material.
Grape sorting is used to ensure no unripe/green parts to the plant are involved in the wine making process.
Repairs, originally estimated at a cost of $68 million (equivalent to $102.05 million in 2025), cost a total of $100 million, and were completed in early 2012.
A toe board is a long piece of 2 inch x 4 inch (a 2x4) wood nailed horizontally along a roof in various places.
The actual table is a precision-machined disc to which the work piece is clamped (T slots are generally provided for this purpose).
Then, using a pneumatic structure, the machine is moored to the first pillar to extend to the second one, anchoring to it, and places the beam.
OH-64, "Alcoa Forging Division, Mesta 50,000-Ton Closed Die Forging Press, 1600 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, OH", 20 photos, 2 color transparencies, 3 data pages, 21 photo caption pages "National Historic Mechanical Engineering Landmark: 50,000 Ton Closed Die Forging Press" (PDF).
Most examples use removable pins for coarse adjustment and a jack screw for fine adjustments, but many variations exist.
A new factory was built with help from Benelli Armi in Pesaro, called the MBA factory (Morbidelli-Benelli-Armi), to produce Morbidelli motorcycles of 123 cc and 248 cc in quantity.
They are often used in conjunction with other highly skilled artisan processes such as an English wheel.
The bubble is simultaneously being cooled in its interior, via a cooling system, and on the exterior surface, through the use of an air ring, to solidify the material.
In about 20 years, thanks to many original design patents, the company Fabio Perini transformed itself from a one-man business to a multinational enterprise able to cover up the 75% of the worldwide market of the paper making industry and the tissue converting machinery.
It has open-source software and hardware, and requires building by the user based on parts sourced individually or in kits from third-party vendors.
History The company was founded in 1857, in Saint Petersburg, Russia as a boiler works and small foundry.
History Optical sorting is an idea that first came out of the desire to automate industrial sorting of agricultural goods like fruits and vegetables.
In the decades following World War II, crawler excavators continued to evolve, with manufacturers introducing a wide range of models and sizes to meet the diverse needs of the construction and mining industries.
To dig canals, raise earthen dams, and do other earth-moving jobs, these tractors were equipped with a large, thick, metal plate in front.
CNC punching Punch presses are developed for high flexibility and efficient processing of metal stampings.
Portable concrete mixers may be powered by gasoline engines, although it is more common that they are powered by electric motors using standard mains current.
The RepRap Snappy is an open-source fused deposition modeling 3D printer, part of the RepRap project, it is the most self replicating 3D printer in the world.
An extra layer of hoppers (‘booster hoppers’) can be added to store product which has been weighed in the weigh hoppers but not used in a weighment, thus increasing the number of suitable combinations available to the computer and so increasing speed and accuracy.
National Museum of American History Patent Assignee- Holyoke Machine Company Google Patents Wood Crusher Machine - Biomass Wood Particle Production
Semi-autonomous features, such as grade control and automated digging cycles on excavators, are also becoming common, assisting operators in performing tasks with greater speed and precision.
The next year, Midea and Carrier continued on this course, forming a collection of closely networked joint venture companies in Brazil, Argentina and Chile, and another one separately in India.
Since the 90s it has begun to expand the areas of interest by acquiring other companies in the sector of professional cleaning machines and electric motors.
Each label is pulled across the strip plate until it is recognized by a photo sensor or limit switch.
Repurposing a Crane mat with cable loops allows them to be relocated on site by client-owned equipment, allowing a client to minimize the number of mats they require.
With a progressive die, such a graph can be used by the tool and diemaker to view the operation of the different cutting pieces and thereby optimize tool performance.
Drawbar materials Choosing the right material for a drawbar is important because the milling machine needs high durability.
Cylindrical coordinate robots The cylindrical coordinate robots are characterized by their rotary joint at the base and at least one prismatic joint connecting its links.
Unusually for its time, the company leased out its shoe manufacturing equipment, rather than selling it.
Some of the products this machine easily fills are cosmetic creams, heavy sauces, thick shampoo and hair conditioners, honey, hair gels, paste cleaners, and car wax.
The operator closes the top flaps and feeds the box in or through a machine which automatically applies the closure.
Around 1914, the company started making machinery for naval vessels and began its journey as a machine manufacturer.
Concrete moisture meters, either non-pin or pin meters are affected by what it sees in the concrete.
In a batch oven process, a set amount of material is placed inside the oven and heated for a specific period of time to reach the desired temperature or to cause a needed change, such as drying, curing, or altering its physical properties.
Aviation Jackscrews are also used extensively in aircraft systems to raise and lower horizontal stabilizers.
Before putting in theses coordinates though, the machine operator needs to set a point of origin on the machine.
Other types of heavy-duty roller conveyors are gravity roller conveyors, chain-driven live roller conveyors, pallet accumulation conveyors, multi-strand chain conveyors, and chain and roller transfers.
During the 1970s and 1980s it established a larger onshore presence in the US, including machine tool-building operations, and since then it has become one of the most important companies in that market and the global machine tool market.
The company is specialized in design and manufacturing of industrial machinery for the paper making industry and the tissue converting industry.
The LMAD is dependent on a flatbed to move it to its employment site, whereas the HMAD has a more robust engine and drive system designed to give it road mobility with a moderate range and speed.
A storey pole (or story pole, storey rod, story stick, jury stick, scantling, scantillon) is a length of narrow board usually cut to the height of one storey.
See also Automatic label placement Document automation Food labelling Label printer Packaging and labeling Thermal printer Thermal transfer printer == References ==
Magnetic Used for holding ferromagnetic workpieces, a magnetic chuck consists of an accurately centred permanent magnet face.
Mixing is performed to allow transfer of heat or mass, or both, to occur between one or more streams, components or phases.
A cross laser level or cross line laser level utilizes pairs of line lasers to project both horizontal and vertical lines simultaneously.
Heat guns usually have the form of an elongated body pointing at what is to be heated, with a handle fixed to it at right angles and a pistol grip trigger in the same pistol form factor as many other power tools.
The 3D2A community was born out of the desire to share information and techniques around the making of such 3D-printed firearms as well as sourcing of materials and other general knowledge.
The application of such machines at enterprises with a wide range of forgings manufactured is economically disadvantageous and inexpedient.
The increase in mechanization required more metal parts, which were usually made of cast iron or wrought iron.
In 2006 the company moved to a new facility in Cormano (in the Province of Milan area) to increase capacity of production of single machines.
They are typically used in the mining industry to remove oversize rocks that are too large or too hard to be reduced in size by a crusher.
Batch ovens – Also called cabinet or Walk-in/Truck-in ovens, batch ovens allow for curing, drying or baking in small batches using wheeled racks, carts or trucks.
The need for constant speed and material supply is one of the reasons for using a material transfer unit in combination with a paver.
One year later, Schmalz entered the US market with the establishment of a branch in Raleigh, North Carolina.
See also Box-sealing tape Automation Notes References Yam, K.L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Media related to Case sealer at Wikimedia Commons
In August 2019, ABB announced industrial veteran Björn Rosengren would take over as CEO starting March 2020.
A series of traceability extensions have been proposed for linking STEP-NC machining programs with sensor feedback and machine state information during execution.
Backhoe loaders are also not generally used for towing and usually do not have a power take-off (PTO) as often this is used to drive the hydraulic pump operating the attachments.
Accessories such as face shields, sun visors, earmuffs, and perspiration-absorbing lining cloths could also be used; today, attachments include radios, walkie-talkies, pagers, and cameras.
Midea Group (Chinese: 美的集团; pinyin: Měidì Jítuán; Jyutping: mei5 dik1 zaap6 tyun4) is a Chinese electrical appliance manufacturer, headquartered in Beijiao town, Shunde District, Foshan, Guangdong and listed on Shenzhen Stock Exchange since 2013.
went on to build 110 steam hammers of all sizes between 1843 and 1867, 26 of which were employed by the firm itself.
Linishing is the process of using grinding or belt sanding techniques to improve the flatness, smoothness and uniformity of a surface and its finish.
Although a number of manufacturers have made differing sizes in the past, most have now standardised on these sizes.
Event(s) IMTEX, Tooltech & Digital Manufacturing 2027 IMTEX FORMING 2026 IMTEX (Retrospect) Tooltech & Digital Manufacturing 2025 Media gallery See also EXCON, South Asia's largest trade fair References External links IMTEX Official website
The raw material is fed into the automatic feeder after it has been unrolled from a coil and put through a straightener.
Repeatability is then quantified using the standard deviation of those samples in all three dimensions.
History HEPCO was established and registered in 1972, with the intention of assembly & production of heavy equipment.
There is evidence of 'boning-rods' being used in building Egypt's Great Pyramid as counterparts of modern storey poles.
History Concept The possibility of a steam hammer was noted by James Watt (1736–1819) in his 28 April 1784 patent for an improved steam engine.
In celebration of this technological achievement, a full-scale wooden replica of the Creusot hammer was built and displayed at the Paris Universal Exposition of 1878.
Introduced in 1990, these machines sort letters at a rate of approximately 36,000 pieces per hour, with a 99% accuracy rate.
With a maximum efficiency of 87%, a considerable improvement over previous designs of the era, the turbine would become ubiquitous in mills in the United States, as well as Europe.
Unlike a dozer blade, box blades are not adjustable relative to the tractor more than a few degrees in any direction, and generally only when the operator dismounts the tractor.
The concept has recently gained popularity in other countries such as the Netherlands, Germany, UK, Japan, Canada and United States.
Prusa's two Z-axis motors were moved from floating mounts at the top to being fixed to the bottom of the vertical frame, and a Dibond composite panel made for a rigid mounting plate for the heated bed.
The major advantages of freefall and chute-fed sorters, compared to belt sorters, are a lower price point and lower maintenance.
At the front end of the ram is a vertical tool slide that may be adjusted to either side of the vertical plane along the stroke axis.
Design features Although most steam roller designs are derived from traction engines, and were manufactured by the same companies, there are a number of features that set them apart.
Some dispensers are small enough so that the dispenser, with the tape in it, can be taken to the point of application for operator ease.
Most major tractor implement manufacturers make box blades, commercial laser guided models are coming into use which automatically level the blade via reference to an external laser.
While the front-end loaders on CUT size tractors are capable of many tasks, given their relatively small size and low capacities when compared to commercial loaders, the compact loaders can be made more useful with some simple options.
The second main type of concrete pump uses hoses and is commonly referred to as a "line pump" or a "grout pump," depending on the size of the aggregate being pumped.
The company was founded in 2009 by the CTO Dr Tim Woolmer who is also the holder of a number of related motor technology patents.
Construction workers were required to wear hard hats, by order of Joseph Strauss, project chief engineer.
Sealing machines: heat sealer, tape, or glue units Security seals, tamper-evident bands, etc equipment Slitting machines, perforating, etc Strapping machines, banding machines, etc.
In addition, since the spools are slightly loose on the shaft, they act like clutches that slip when products are required to accumulate (stop moving and bump up against each other.
History Packaging (1906–today) 1906–1950 In order to address the volatility of the railway vehicle and firearms businesses, SIG started to produce packaging machinery starting from 1906 as a third main business area.
Electrification of the drive system is accelerating the introduction of electronic systems in construction machinery and is also making automation easier.
The hoses to the excavator, for intake and drain the oil are connected directly to the crusher bucket.
The two brothers began selling Facchini Group's production directly to large companies in the food production field, nationally and internationally.
Description Jack posts are telescopic tubular steel props consisting of two primary parts, both tubular: the main body of the post, and the threaded jack screw or other adjustable fitting on one or both ends.
In 2003 PFM buy 100% of SPS Packaging System, which is the formerly named Italianapack, sold in 1972 and now rejoining the group.
Morgan printers are now manufactured full-time by the inventor in a small workshop factory in the House4Hack makerspace.
The snow-knife is often used as a substitute for the snow-tester whenever that instrument is broken or left behind, for the Esquimaux are a very careless and absentminded people.
The company was created in 2000 from the purchase of Beloit Italia, the Italian subsidiary of Beloit Corporation.
Types of woodworking machinery Artisanal and hobby machines These machines are used both in small-scale commercial production of timber products and by hobbyists.
Heavy Equipment Production Company (HEPCO) is an Iranian corporation that manufactures construction equipment, railroad cars, trucks, forklifts and the industrial machinery of oil, gas, energy, metal and mining industries in Arak, HEPCO is the largest heavy equipment manufacturer in the Middle East.
The structure and position of the blades inside the mixer guarantee homogeneous material dispersion.
Facchini Group is an Italian manufacturing company which manufactures and sells worldwide machinery and equipment for the production of various types of fresh and dry pasta (such as ravioli, tortellini and tortelloni), and for the thermal treatment of food products.
It is built by the Beijing Wowjoint Machinery Company and designed by the Shijiazhuang Railway Design Institute.
The gauges provide an electric signal by means of piezoelectric effect as they are stretched during press operation.
Note that the mixer power is strongly dependent upon the rotational speed and impeller diameter, and linearly dependent upon either the density or viscosity of the fluid, depending on which flow regime is present.
The height of the table can be adjusted to suit this workpiece, and the table can traverse sideways underneath the reciprocating tool, which is mounted on the ram.
The workspace of lower mobility manipulators may be decomposed into 'motion' and 'constraint' subspaces.
This plate is usually equipped with a series of holes that enables rapid indexing to common angles, such as 30, 45, or 90 degrees.
Remote Bar Coding System (RBCS), also called Remote Video Encoding (RVE) is a method used by the United States Postal Service during mail sorting to encode the address of letter-sized mailpieces that are not decipherable by a Multiline Optical Character Reader (MLOCR).
Types Lathe Drill Milling Grinding References Machining Technology, Machine Tools and Operations Helmi A.
The company also continued to supply its products to the battery production industry and developed new vacuum filling systems for lithium-ion battery applications.
The doffer is set with pins that hold the fiber, which is then removed by a comb or knife and fed into the next stage of production.
is a Japanese company that offers machine elements and modules in the field of mechanical engineering, robotics and automation.
are: Toilet roll and kitchen towel converting lines; Table napkin converting equipment; Embossers, laminators, printing units; Slitter rewinders for the production of industrial rolls; Customized embossing rolls for tissue production.
A Delivery Bar Code Sorter (DBCS) is a mail sorting machine used primarily by the United States Postal Service.
Three-roller machines (variable pitch aka variable geometry) have one pressing top roll and two pressing side rolls.
High shear dispersers are used for forming emulsions (or suspensions) of immiscible liquids and solid deagglomeration.
The RepRap Ormerod is named after the English entomologist Eleanor Anne Ormerod, it was designed by RepRapPro.
Operation The asphalt is added from a dump truck or a material transfer unit into the paver's hopper.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Media related to Bottling plants at Wikimedia Commons Liquid Filling Lines
In 2015, Zolin sold the first 18 printers as kits (Voron 1.0, later renamed Voron Trident, and quite similar to the later Voron Legacy), and marked them with serial numbers.
After the concrete has cured and the tendons have been tensioned, the jacks are lowered and the MSS girders are launched to bridge the next span.
Electric motors, field coils, transformers and capacitors may also be assembled with ultrasonic welding.
During the 1950s and 1960s, operator safety became a concern due to increasing lifting heights and capacities.
Cylindrical coordinate measuring machine or CCMM, is a special variation of a standard coordinate measuring machine (CMM) which incorporates a moving table to rotate the part relative to the probe.
Techman Robot Inc., formerly a business division of Quanta Storage Inc., is an independent company under Quanta Computer established in 2015.
group specialized in the design and manufacturing of customized embossing rolls for tissue production.
ITW Mima Packaging Systems manufacture stretch films in Belgium and Ireland and stretch wrappers in Bulgaria and Finland.
In terms of automation, inline filling machines are most popular, but rotary machines are much faster albeit much more expensive.
Batch ovens are essentially heated boxes with insulated doors that process products one at a time or in groups.
Background It is a former subdivision of the Schoeller-Bleckmann group, a manufacturer particularly of steel products which was nationalised in 1946; the company was spun off in the period 1993-7.
The snow-knife of iron, while more convenient in many ways, is far more liable to break in the intense cold of the winter weather, such accidents with them being very common.
A line laser level is a tool combining a spirit level and/or plumb bob to balance a stationary line laser to display a precise horizontal or vertical illuminated line on a surface the line laser level is laid against.
Machine tool manufacturing industry The worldwide market for machine tools was approximately $81 billion in production in 2014 according to a survey by market research firm Gardner Research.
Impellers Propellers (marine or hydrofoil) give an inlet and outlet which are on axial direction, preferably downward, they are characterized by a nice pumping flow, low energy consumption and low shear magnitude as well as low turbulence.
In 1914 the company was renamed Petrograd Metal Works (Petrogradskiy Metallicheskiy Zavod) when Saint Petersburg was renamed as Petrograd.
Alongside this, Matti Haloila started his own company in Finland and began manufacturing HaloilaHaloila - Etusivu semi-automatic stretch wrappers in 1976.
The disadvantage/advantage to this method is waste is not collected, but pushed out through the rear of the machine where it can be fed into a trash receptacle.
In 1995 Viscom established another of its main pillars with the introduction of microfocus X-ray inspection and the first system worldwide to combine inspection under incident light and X-ray.
The actual energy delivered may have been in the order of 3.3 million foot-pounds (or 500,000 kilogram-metres).
In 1873, James Gregson bought 82 acres of land at Fulwood; in 1876 he built Highgate Park mansion with the land as its extensive gardens.
From the late 1980s onwards, airports increased security, especially after the 9/11 attacks, with Vanderlande focusing most of its operations on selling equipment to them.
EXCON (Exhibition on construction equipments) is South Asia's largest trade fair and exhibition of construction equipments.
One of the main movable parts of a 3D printer which contans the hotend (heating the filament) and, if applicable, also a direct-drive extruder (which performs feeding of the filament).
In 80-90s hydro-mechanical and hydraulic radial forging machines appeared that do not have the disadvantages inherent to mechanical RFM.
See also Digital modeling and fabrication List of 3D printer manufacturers References External links Official website
Retention knob Drawbar force gauges are able to detect broken or weakening components of the drawbar clamping system, can give indications that the unit needs lubrication, detect gripper mis-adjustment, or demonstrate that the incorrect retention knob is being used for the machine.
Also in 2017, the eDumper, an electric dump truck from Komatsu in cooperation with Kuhn Switzerland and Lithium Storage was presented.
External links Lathes.co.uk information archive on hand-powered shapers YouTube video of shaper mechanism YouTube video of a vintage shaper in action YouTube video of a newly built hobbyist shaper in action
Because of the low cost, if a part is suspected to have issues, follow on testing can be conducted without much initial investment.
Unfunctional, it serves as a tourist attraction and a reminder of a bygone era of technological achievement.
Leibinger-Kammüller broadened the group's base by setting up a bank and expanding software development capabilities.
Tool change system The linear tool carrier (y-axis) has several stations that hold the punching tools and one cutting tool.
Newer turbines have largely supplanted the Rushton turbine for gas–liquid mixing, such as the Smith turbine and Bakker turbine.
Placing into trays A well-engineered distribution system enables you to combine the speed and accuracy of multihead weighing with precise, splash-free delivery of product into trays.
Potential uses There are a variety of reasons companies choose to use induction sealing: Tamper evidence Leak prevention Freshness retention Protection against package pilferage Sustainability Production speed Tamper evidence With the U.S.
The rear has a forward and reverse cutting edge mounted at the bottom, with the reverse cutting edge often gated or floating on more expensive models.
Employees knowledgeable about Trumpf's laser amplifier technology have been a recruitment target of Huawei.
The part that makes it through the first in-running nip experiences very high shear force due to the different rotation speeds of the two rolls.
Tesla merged the company into its operation, removing the Hibar signage from in front of the Richmond Hill office building in 2020 and changing the legal name on Hibar's website to Tesla Toronto Automation ULC in 2021.
Description The SLJ900/32 as aforementioned, is 91 metres (299 ft) long, 7 metres (23 ft) wide, 9 m (29 ft 6 in) tall and weighs around 580 tonnes (640 short tons).
This machine is mainly used to manufacture fibre-reinforced plastic (FRP) pipes and couplings, especially glass-reinforced plastic (GRP) pipes.
Packaging machine designs of that period were the result of individual requirements from the company to the inventor-entrepreneur.
In addition to location, the system transmits a wide range of telemetry data, including engine hours, fuel consumption, idle time, and diagnostic fault codes.
Concrete moisture meters are designed to detect moisture to a depth of 1 inch (25 mm) of a concrete slab in order to avoid the rebar reinforcement below the surface.
Compound tool The compound tool differs from progressive and stage tools by the arrangement of the punch and die.
The ovens normally use horizontal re-circulating air to ensure the uniform temperature, and can use fans that circulate air, creating the airflow.
Objectives IMTMA supports the machine tool industry of India in increasing its competitiveness, technology, productivity and quality for overall advancement and growth.
Typically, a packed column is used for this purpose, with the packing acting as a motionless mixer and the air pump providing the driving force.
Bravo is an Italian company that produces machines for gelato, pastry, chocolate and savory food production worldwide.
In 1961, Swiss Locomotive and Machine Works (SLM) in Winterthur was acquired, and the large diesel engine became Sulzer's flagship product worldwide.
This integration of technology facilitates greater automation, safety monitoring, and operational efficiency on construction and mining sites, creating what is often referred to as an intelligent job site.
A continuous filament winding machine (CFW Machine / CW Machine) is a machine for laying filament windings continuously over a cylindrical steel band.
Typically only skilled workers may operate heavy equipment, and there is specialized training for learning to use heavy equipment.
There are two common types of thermal printer: Direct thermal printers use heat sensitive paper (similar to thermal fax paper).
A rotary transfer machine is a machine tool, typically for metal working by machining, comprising a large indexing table with machining stations surrounding the table.
These shredders are slow speed or high speed, and are not restricted in being classified as an industrial shredder by their speed or horsepower.
See also References Bibliography Brown, Chris (April 25, 2011), "A close look at indexable chucks", Production Machining.
According to industry rankings by Platts in various years from 2008-2010, LMZ was not listed among the significant manufacturers of steam, gas or hydro turbines by worldwide market share.
By 1969, when Gray Company went public and changed its name to Graco, it had annual sales of $33 million.
The field of occupational medicine researches and makes recommendations about safety for these and other workers in safety-sensitive positions.
When a dot "turns off", that element of the print head immediately cools down, and that part of the ribbon thereby stops melting/printing.
Innovations and new technologies The design of heavy equipment has increasingly incorporated modern electronics and software, a process known as Fleet digitalization.
The safety device is most commonly a pin that must be inserted to prevent one of the components in the quick coupler moving to release the bucket or attachment but some designs require the manual operation of a lever on the quick coupler.
The cells can be heated or cooled directly or indirectly, and all heating media, such as oil, steam, hot water or hot gas can be used.
Stankoprom is part of the state-owned holding company Rostec, and it incorporates 14 machine tool manufacturers.
Indexing heads are usually used on the tables of milling machines, but may be used on many other machine tools including drill presses, grinders, and boring machines.
Aksa also manufactures soundproofed generator cabins-canopy kit, lighting towers, power transfer switching and synchronization panels with its related equipment.
The XYYZ+ Printer was released in 2016 to introduce improvements, that provided a more stable printing environment.
OMZ is a 50% owner of the Uralmash Machine-Building Corporation formed in a 2007 agreement with Metalloinvest.
Sorters at the station would sort the mail by general geographical area, perhaps "Buffalo area" or "Albany".
Media gallery See also IMTEX, South and South-East Asia's largest machine tool and manufacturing show Bauma, world's largest trade fair References External sources Official website
The cost of these printers is generally very low, making them popular with low volume users; but they print on special tapes, often thermal, which are usually expensive as is the case of Seiko Smart label.
Several punches of identical shape may be used in the turret, each one turned to a different angle, as there is usually no feature to rotate the sheet workpiece relative to the tool.
“The code proved to us not only that we could work together but that we could also trust one another.
During the 1950s and 1960s, under the founder's sons, Yamazaki revived, and during the 1960s it established itself as an exporter to the American market.
Examples of things to pay attention to during construction are that the frame is square, using threadlock on screws and proper torque, using precise 3D printed parts, and connecting all the electrical components correctly.
In Britain and Ireland they are commonly referred to simply as JCBs; they are popularly called "JCB" in India.
The Turkish Army and Turkish Police used remote controlled armored wheel loader Tosun during the building of the Syria–Turkey barrier, the Operation Euphrates Shield, Operation Idlib Shield) and Operation Olive Branch.
Any damage or problems to the seamer or seamer tools can cause severe problems to the double seam like seam bumps, wrinkles, sharp seams, and open seams.
In some ways, deagglomeration of solids is similar to the blending of immiscible liquids, except for the fact that coalescence is usually not a problem.
Approximately 1000 seeds were collected from the mother plant in 1974 and propagated, with two selected for further development as cultivars, which are now propagated clonally.
Not only the biomass per square meter increases with density, but also the Leaf Area Index (LAI, leaf area per ground area).
Urtica × oblongata is a hybrid species of the genus Urtica in the family Urticaceae (also known as the nettle family).
While these diseases are usually serious enough that the gardener would not grow affected plants, there are a few affected plants that can survive indefinitely, and are attractive enough to be grown for ornament such as some variegated Abutilon varieties.
× incanus is a shrubby plant, to about 1 m (3 ft) tall, with grey-green leaves and pink to purple flowers.
During the age of sail, 'Banyan' was used as an expression for a party, especially one at the fo'c'sle.
PPG I A first classification, PPG I, was produced in 2016, covering only extant (living) pteridophytes.
Female sporophylls are simple, appearing peltate, with a barren stipe and an expanded and thickened lamina with 2 (rarely 3 or more) sessile ovules inserted on the inner (axis facing) surface and directed inward.
Implicated products Tinospora cordifolia supplement usage is of concern as the constituent chemicals cause hepatitis.
In particular, a thicket's high plant density and resulting low visibility allows for predator species to succeed in tracking, stalking, and capturing their prey.
There are indications that also the well-illuminated top leaves may have a lower photosynthetic capacity in densely-grown plants.
In studies on grass species, with plants that produce stolons or rhizomes and plants that produce both stolons and rhizomes, morphological and physiological differences were noticed.
A derivation of the impossible bottle mechanical puzzle takes advantage of the fact that pine cones open and close based on their level of dryness.
Meiosis in the diploid sporophyte provides a direct DNA repair capability for dealing with DNA damages, including oxidative DNA damages, in germline reproductive tissues.
Monocotyledons or monocots have one seed lobe, which is often modified to absorb stored nutrients from the seed so never emerges from the seed or becomes photosynthetic.
In the Chinese language, the edible, cultivated walnut is called 胡桃 (hú táo in modern standard Chinese), which means literally "Hu peach", suggesting the ancient Chinese associated the introduction of the tree into East Asia with the Hu barbarians of the regions north and northwest of China.
The formation of bulbils is a form of asexual reproduction, as they can eventually go on to form new stand-alone plants.
As the industry declined, the tree farm was sold to the Collins Companies which mills and markets the wood.
Examples are the closing of the petals of a flower at dusk and the sleep movements of the leaves of many legumes.
Malting In the production of malted grains, the culms refer to the rootlets of the germinated grains.
In many of these plants, only the male flowers form catkins, and the female flowers are single (hazel, oak), a cone (alder), or other types (mulberry).
However, not all variegated plants have this Latin tag, for instance many cultivars of Pelargonium have some zonal variegation in their leaves.
Only seedlings and young tissue are susceptible to infection which, with proper cultural controls, can limit the development and progression of the disease.
Most species of ferns have pinnate or more highly divided fronds, and in ferns, the leaflets or segments are typically referred to as "pinnae" (singular "pinna").
Ground layering Ground layering or mound layering is the typical propagation technique for the popular Malling-Merton series of clonal apple root stocks, in which the original plants are set in the ground with the stem nearly horizontal, which forces side buds to grow upward.
An early leaf sensor was developed by LeafSens, an Israeli company granted a US patent for a mechanical leaf thickness sensing device in 2001.
As distance from the parent tree increases, seed abundance and thus seed predation are predicted to decrease as seed survival increases.
Canada produces most of the world's maple syrup, and the maple leaf is the country's national symbol.
The hypanthium of one plant found in the western United States, Heuchera rubescens, has one subspecies with an obconic structure, while several other subspecies have alternative hypanthium geometries, so that the obconic characteristic is a subspecies determinant and diagnostic.
Species in Cornales tend to have the same perforations, as well as anthers attached at their base, ring-like nectaries, and cymes, which are inflorescences with lateral stalks that terminate in a flower or another branch.
These walls are constructed of layered sheaths of cellulose microfibrils, wherein the fibers are in parallel within each layer.
Cultivation and modification of colour Many external factors can influence colour: light, temperature, pH, sugars and metals.
"An update of the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group classification for the orders and families of flowering plants: APG IV".
It has a number of cultivars, including 'Allgold' and 'Warminster', which have both gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Density calculation: The density of the canopy is calculated as the total number of seeds in the plot divided by the measured canopy area.
bifidum: Hieracium chlorellum - rare Hieracium crispulum - rare Hieracium prolixum - rare Hieracium triangulare - rare Hieracium aggr.
Pre-treatment of seed and soil before sowing Before sowing, certain seeds first require a treatment prior to the sowing process.
Bradyspory may occur because seed release is spontaneous but very gradual, or because seed release does not occur until triggered to do so by some environmental event.
Tetterwort – According to 1913 Webster's Dictionary, Chelidonium majus in England or Sanguinaria canadensis in the Americas.
Cultivation Availability includes the usual nursery "seed-grown" and the "cutting grown" types, which can easily be propagated at home by cuttings and planting side branches.
Taxonomy In the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I), Cryptogrammoideae is one of the five subfamilies of the family Pteridaceae.
Departing from Linnean taxonomy, Humboldt established a new science, dividing plant geography between taxonomists who studied plants as taxa and geographers who studied plants as vegetation.
These illustrations depicted a vast array of European and exotic plants, often accompanied by detailed annotations on plant anatomy, including flowers, leaves, seeds, and fruits at various stages of development.
Combining ability is assessed by taking into consideration all available information on descent (genetic relatedness), morphology, qualitative (simply inherited) traits and biochemical and molecular markers.
Uses Medical research A 2023 study at SRM Institute of Science and Technology suggests that veratric acid has apoptotic and antiproliferative effects against triple negative breast cancer cells.
List References External links British Bryological Society Checklist of British and Irish Bryophytes -searchable online database, listing 881 taxa of mosses (i.e.
Leaves simply pinnate with 4 to 7 pairs of leaflets, which are ovate to broadly ovate, coarsely serrate and occasionally lobed.
The Ginkgoaceae are a family of gymnosperms which appeared during the Mesozoic Era, of which the only extant representative is Ginkgo biloba, which is for this reason sometimes regarded as a living fossil.
This type of begonia is usually grown for the flowers they produce, sometimes regarded as some of the most spectacular of the genus.
Leaf whorls occur in some trees such as Brabejum stellatifolium and other species in the family Proteaceae (e.g., in the genus Banksia).
During the course of alternating stages of daytime and nighttime humidity, the awns' pumping movements, which resemble swimming frog kick, drill the spikelet as much as an inch into the soil.
The flowers are rich in nectar and are visited by insects, which usually have to crawl underneath the carina and thus pollinate the flowers.
Garden roses and other rose cultivars may have a much shorter lifespan of only a couple of hundred years.
A 2014 classification by Morton and Telmer split this circumscription of Rutoideae into a smaller Rutoideae and a much larger Amyridoideae s.l., which contained most of Engler's Rutoideae.
In addition phototropins mediate the first changes in stem elongation in blue light prior to cryptochrome activation.
Taxonomic significance Spur length can be an important diagnostic character for taxonomy, useful in species identification.
Symptoms When Peronospora radii infects chamomile it causes more inflorescences to be produced by the plant, and the inflorescences to be larger and malformed.
Other common names include viruchi, kiskaara, kepale, rangan, kheme, ponna, chann tanea, techi, pan, siantan, jarum-jarum/jejarum, cây trang thái, jungle flame, jungle geranium, and cruz de Malta, among others.
See also: Hyperaccumulators table – 2: Nickel Hyperaccumulators table – 3: Cd, Cs, Co, Pu, Ra, Sr, U, radionuclides, hydrocarbons, organic solvents, etc.
It is usually synonymous with the Flora and can be contrasted with the microflora, a term used for all the bacteria and other microorganisms in an ecosystem.
Species are commonly called coontails or hornworts, although hornwort is also used for unrelated plants of the division Anthocerotophyta.
Application of molecular markers An important advantage of biotechnology applied to plant breeding is the speeding up of cultivar release that would otherwise take 8–12 years.
Water starwort – Callitriche verna, of the water-milfoil family, and other species of the genus Callitriche, such as Common Water-starwort, Callitriche stagnalis.
The prothallus develops independently for several weeks; it grows sex organs that produce ova (archegonia) and flagellated sperm (antheridia).
Living Ceratophyllum grows completely submerged, usually, though not always, floating on the surface, and does not tolerate drought.
Cockayne, The Chatham Islands and Their Plants in New Zealand Plants and Their Story, NZ Department of Education, 1910 New Zealand plants and their story in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
The resulting zygote developed into the next sporophyte generation while still retained within the pre-ovule, the single large female meiospore or megaspore contained in the modified sporangium or nucellus of the parent sporophyte.
This name was however later rejected by Heslop-Harrison because they were not discovered by von Ubisch.
As a result, hybridization can be a powerful driver for improving agricultural crops, but can also facilitate unwanted species invasions (e.g., annual sunflower).
villosum which is found in the Himalayan region (including Bhutan, Nepal) and likely also in Yunnan.
Erigenia bulbosa, the Cherokee were known to chew this plant as medicine for toothaches, it is unknown what parts of plant they chewed.
For example, in two plant species whose fruit ripen asynchronously (Vaccinium corymbosum and Amelanchier arborea) the fruit with more seeds ripened faster.
The term is used in botany and in vegetation ecology especially in relation to grasslands and understory.
Holm (1929) restricted the term rhizome to a horizontal, usually subterranean, stem that produces roots from its lower surface and green leaves from its apex, developed directly from the plumule of the embryo.
Pathogens Importantly, cytoskeleton-mediated nuclear movement is critical for response of plants to pathogenic microorganisms.
An intermediate position is to place the bulk in Thelypteris (which can then be divided into subgenera and sections corresponding to the genera of other authors) but to separate out Phegopteris and Macrothelypteris.
This long lifetime indicates that something is preventing the small ice crystals from recrystallizing into larger ones, since recrystallization normally occurs very quickly at temperatures near 0 °C (32 °F).
A report from 2005 commissioned by the World Bank looked at the impact of intellectual property rights regimes on the plant breeding industry in 5 developing countries.
In a garden outside the television studios, she also gave the presenters a practical demonstration of how she communicates with trees, with the aid of a sound engineer.
This plant was in the 'Desert Worlds' episode of the David Attenborough TV series The Green Planet where he revisited the plant in 2022, after previously filming it in 1982 for 'The Baking Deserts' episode of The Living Planet.
Phytochemicals possibly involved in biological functions are the basis of herbalism, and may be grouped as: primary metabolites, such as carbohydrates and fats found in all plants secondary metabolites serving a more specific function.
Forb Adaptation Zones: Kale and turnip are examples of forb adaptations distributed over much of Europe, southern Oceania, northern Asia, and northern North America.
It was not until the 1990s that after analyzing the Casparian strip of several plants, it was found that lignin was the main component, but many textbooks have not been updated.
The bird's nest fern (Asplenium nidus) is also popular, as are the staghorn ferns (genus Platycerium).
In the aphotic (lightless) part of caves, short-term growth of photosynthetic plants is possible thanks to the seed's nutritive tissue.
The Chatham Islands make up the Chatham floristic province of the Neozeylandic Region of the Antarctic Kingdom.
It is assumed to have originated at least 408 million years ago, and is multicellular in origin in spikemosses and unicellular in origin in quillworts.
There is an increasing interest in flower colour, since some colorations are currently unavailable in plants.
The coco de mer, which produces a giant, dark brown seed, has been protected by the government of the Seychelles because of its rarity – the tree can grow up to 31 m (102 ft) tall, with leaves measuring 6 m (20 ft) long and 3.6 m (12 ft) wide.
Classification based on position The terminology of the positions of ovaries is determined by the insertion point, where the other floral parts (perianth and androecium) come together and attach to the surface of the ovary.
In this system, the superasterids (named for the asters) account for more than a third of all flowering plant species.
In palaeontology Stolon-based reproduction is thought to have been used by Rangeomorphs in the Ediacaran period.
This is in contrast to the flora, which in this context refers to the assemblage of living plants that were growing in a particular area, whose fragmentary remains became entrapped within the sediment from which the rock was formed and thus became the macroflora.
These plants are found worldwide, even in mainland Antarctica; two species of grass are the only vascular plants found there.
Exclusion of aluminium ions in the apoplast prevent toxic levels which inhibit shoot growth, reducing[?] crop yields.
Curio 'Trident Blue', known commonly as Senecio 'Trident Blue', Trident Blue Chalk and Kleinia 'Trident Blue', is a spear-shaped succulent plant that is a hybrid of Curio repens and Curio talinoides.
In contrast, those in other countries, often called European cucumbers, are smaller and have thinner, more delicate skin, often with fewer seeds, thus are often sold in plastic skin for protection.
This cold moist period triggers the seed's embryo; its growth and subsequent expansion eventually break through the softened seed coat in its search for sun and nutrients.
Sieve-tube members lack such organs as nuclei or ribosomes, but cells next to them, the companion cells, function to keep the sieve-tube members alive.
PIF1, phytochrome-interaction-factor-1, negatively regulates germination by increasing the expression of proteins that repress the synthesis of gibberellin (GA), a major hormone in the germination process.
Angiosperms also use another type of conductive cell, called vessel elements, to transport water through the xylem.
Cones are used as decorative elements in architecture such as on top of the posts surrounding Koper's Da Ponte Fountain, the central element of the Fontana della Pigna in Rome, or a bronze cone in the narthex of the Aachen Cathedral.
References Yatabe, Yoko; Yamamoto, Kaoru; Tsutsumi, Chie; Shinohara, Wataru; Murakami, Noriaki; Kato, Masahiro (2010).
guard cell Each of two cells surrounding the stoma which control gas exchange between the apoplast of the plant and the external environment.
Wounding While proteinase inhibitors are present in plants naturally, production of these proteins for defense is often induced by either wounding of the plant or by chemical signaling through molecules such as methyl jasmonate.
Then, A mound is created with moist media around the base of the plant, enclosing the wounded branches but leaving the tips of the branches exposed.
Evolution For some time, catkins were believed to be a key synapomorphy among the proposed Hamamelididae, also known as Amentiferae (i.e., literally plants bearing aments).
The taxonomy presented is broadly based on the work of the APG, with modifications to incorporate new results.
Many whitebeams are the result of extensive intergeneric hybridisation involving the genera Sorbus (Sorbus aucuparia in particular), Aria, Torminalis and Chamaemespilus.
It would be known only from the type locality until 27 years later when, in 2009, plants were located at both the type locality and at a new site near Lafeti Khola, Bhutan.
Entophytic bacteria can cause severe problems in agriculture by alkalizing the apoplast with their volatiles and therefore inhibiting plant growth.
The flowers change colour, where they start out as bright blue early in the morning, shifting to a darker shade of blue in midday, then to a lavender blue and finally to a deep pink at the end of the day.
These can be quite elaborate in the case of certain maize varieties, but tend to use a trapezoidal or leaf area index (LAI) curve for common crop or vegetation canopies.
Engler's division into subfamilies largely relied on the characteristics of the fruit, as did others used until molecular phylogenetic methods were applied, which showed that Rutoideae cannot be clearly differentiated from other members of the family based on fruit.
Kalanchoe × houghtonii is a hybrid between Kalanchoe daigremontiana and Kalanchoe delagoensis named after Arthur Duvernoix Houghton.
Similarly, all gaseous molecules emitted and received by plants such as oxygen must pass through the apoplast.
Diversity Non-vascular land plants The non-vascular land plants, namely the mosses (Bryophyta), hornworts (Anthocerotophyta), and liverworts (Marchantiophyta), are relatively small plants, often confined to environments that are humid or at least seasonally moist.
Taxonomy The species was originally discovered in Hale County, Alabama in 1873 by Julia Tutwiler, an Alabama prison reformer and educator.
gracile was described by Georg Roth in 1903 based on a specimen collected from Radstädter Tauern Pass, also in Salzburg, Austria.
Pacek-Bieniek A., Budowa i aktywność elajoforów w kwiatach wybranych gatunków z rodziny storczykowatych (Orchidaceae), Uniwersytet Przyrodniczy w Lublinie, 2011.
Moth bean: is an Indian dal main ingredient for popular Indian snack bikaneri bhujia and Maharashtrian snacks misal and usal.
Vegetative propagation also allows plants to avoid the costly and complex process of producing sexual reproduction organs such as flowers and the subsequent seeds and fruits.
Botanical examples The carnivorous plant Nepenthes deaniana has pitcher elements that are obconic in shape to capture insects.
Historical use One of the first written texts covering the use of ginseng as a medicinal herb was the Shen Nong Pharmacopoeia, written in China in 196 AD.
Seed soaking is generally done by placing seeds in medium hot water for at least 24 to up to 48 hours Seed cleaning is done especially with fruit, as the flesh of the fruit around the seed can quickly become prone to attack from insects or plagues.
The age of the organ also affects the epiphytic bacteria population and characteristics and has a role in the inhibition of phytopathogen on plant.
& T.E.Almeid (3 genera) Subfamily Thelypteridoideae C.F.Reed (27 genera) Suborder Polypodiineae Dumort.
Many club-moss gametophytes are mycoheterotrophic and long-lived, residing underground for several years before emerging from the ground and progressing to the sporophyte stage.
In 1868, it was noted that no plant had been found since 1833, nor could a herbarium specimen be located.
For lists pertaining specifically to the Cherokee, Iroquois, Navajo, and Zuni, see Cherokee ethnobotany, Iroquois ethnobotany, Navajo ethnobotany, and Zuni ethnobotany.
indica is reportedly naturalized in Austria, Portugal, Spain, Azores, Canary Islands, Cape Verde, Madeira, most of tropical Africa, Ascension Island, St.
He recognized stolons as axillary, subterranean branches that do not bear green leaves but only membranaceous, scale-like ones.
Kigelia or "sausage seed" (botanical name Kigelia africana) can produce pods weighing up to 12 kg (26 lb), and 12–20 cm (4+1⁄2–8 in) long, but the pod contains seeds.
A few angiosperms produce vascular tissue in the outer integument, the orientation of which suggests that the outer surface is morphologically abaxial.
Once a tree has been removed from its environment and the wood has been processed, it can often be hard to identify the provenance or age of a specific piece.
Specific cultures might have favoured specific wood types for ritual purposes, giving a clue as to the use of found objects.
The flowers are strongly favoured by many butterflies besides fritillaries, such as the monarch, skippers, and the various types of tiger swallowtail.
Fruiting spurs are specialized twigs that generally branch off the sides of branches and are stubby and slow-growing, with many annular ring markings from seasons past.
Male and female sporophylls are spirally aggregated into determinate cones that grow along the axis.
Alternatively, the family may be submerged in a very broadly defined family Aspleniaceae as the subfamily Thelypteridoideae.
They range from 1 to 10 m in length and the presence of them can be used to separate hardwoods from softwoods.
Active Philosophy in Education and Science: Paradigms and Language-Games, published in 1985 (Cambridge, MA: Allen and Unwin.
The two classes of flowering plants (angiosperms) are distinguished by their numbers of seed leaves: monocotyledons (monocots) have one blade-shaped cotyledon, whereas dicotyledons (dicots) possess two round cotyledons.
While plants grown from seed are more likely to have the swollen caudex at a young age, with time many cutting-grown plants cannot be distinguished from seed-grown plants.
Epiphytic bacteria are removed from the plant surface through ultraviolet radiation, chemical surface disinfection, and washing .
Water sprouts are selected for this process due to their age and flexibility classifying them as a soft wood cutting ideal for the practice.
One of the best examples occurs in Ipomopsis aggregata where there is increased seed production and seed siring in damaged plants compared to undamaged plants (Figure 4; Edwards 2009).
(By contrast, the principal generation phase in non-vascular plants is the gametophyte, which produces gametes and is haploid, with one set of chromosomes per cell.) Vascular plants have true roots, leaves, and stems, even if some groups have secondarily lost one or more of these traits.
The woody trunk of the tree is equipped with irregular and thorny branches and can reach 50 cm in circumference.
Tannosomes condense tannins in chlorophyllous organs, providing defenses against herbivores and pathogens, and protection against UV radiation.
A vertical ecosystem is an architectural gardening system developed by Ignacio Solano from the mur vegetal created by Patrick Blanc.
Later work showed that transgenic seed can be obtained by simply dipping flowers into a suitable bacterial suspension.
The spores are then separated with a micromanipulator needle and deposited in separate positions on a petri dish.
A NO mutant resulted in inhibition of vacuolation but when GA was later added the process was active again leading to the belief that NO is prior to GA in the pathway.
Helianthus × laetiflorus, the cheerful sunflower or perennial sunflower, is a plant in the family of Asteraceae.
Although of low bioavailability, some supplements boost potency via a variety of preparation techniques.
Ingesting tutu berries was linked with many deaths of children during the early European settlement of New Zealand, as well as livestock deaths.
Discovery The hybrid was first discovered by George Lawson in July 1845 at Gullane, East Lothian, Scotland, and two voucher specimens were deposited in the herbarium of William Gardiner, Dundee.
Antioxidant systems are also activated to mitigate damage from reactive oxygen species generated during stress.
Deployment in triticale in New South Wales and Queensland, Australia, however, rapidly showed virulence between 1982 and 1984 – the first virulence on this gene in the world.
Berberidopsidales, Buxales, Crossosomatales, Fabales p.p., Geraniales, Gunnerales, Myrtales p.p., Proteales, Saxifragales, Vitales, Zygophyllales, Clusiaceae Alliance, Passifloraceae Alliance, Dilleniaceae, Huaceae, Picramniaceae, Sabiaceae.
A locule (pl.: locules) or loculus (Latin for 'little place'; pl.: loculi) is a small cavity or compartment within an organ or part of an organism (animal, plant, or fungus).
In typical modern flowers, the outer or enclosing whorl of organs forms sepals, and is specialised for protection of the flower bud as it develops, while the inner whorl forms petals, which attract pollinators.
In ancient Greek medicine plum blossoms were used to treat bleeding gums, mouth ulcers and tighten loose teeth.
The structure of water-sprout regrowth is not as strong as that of the original tree, and the shoots are more subject to diseases and pests.
& A.R.Sm The extinct genus Holttumopteris from the Cenomanian aged Burmese amber has been suggested to have affinities with the family, but several important diagnostic characters are not preserved.
In some classifications, half-inferior ovaries are not recognized and are instead grouped with either the superior or inferior ovaries.
National Cheng Kung University, a university located in Tainan, included royal poinciana on its emblem.
The former has either no cells or a single cell layer between the megasporophyte and the epidermal cells, while the latter has multiple cell layers between.
The weak acids excreted by lampenflora can also cause damage to and change limestone and other rocks.
Background Classification systems serve the purpose of grouping organisms by characteristics common to each group.
Other theories state that the heat may provide a heat reward for the pollinator: pollinators are drawn to the flower for its warmth.
Etymology The word catkin is a loanword from the Middle Dutch katteken, meaning "kitten" (compare also German Kätzchen).
odorata 'Mutabilis' is widely cultivated, and is notable for the fact that the blooms change colour from yellow to pink.
The spinach family includes sugar beets, which account for a fifth of the world's sugar consumption.
Many palms (notably the feather palms) and most cycads and grevilleas have pinnately divided leaves.
In terms of differential equations, if S {\displaystyle S} is the current size, and d S d t {\displaystyle {\frac {dS}{dt}}} its growth rate, then relative growth rate is R G R = 1 S d S d t {\displaystyle RGR={\frac {1}{S}}{\frac {dS}{dt}}} .
Some plants can be grown from leaf pieces, called leaf cuttings, which produce both stems and roots.
While most of the early herbaria were prepared with sheets bound into books, Carl Linnaeus came up with the idea of maintaining them on free sheets that allowed their easy re-ordering within cabinets.
Medical research Compounds of icariin, astragalus, and puerarin mitigates iron overload in the cerebral cortex of mice with Alzheimer's disease.
caesium: Hieracium caesium - rare Hieracium coniops - rare Hieracium laeticolor - rare Hieracium plumbeum - rare Hieracium ravidum Hieracium aggr.
Some plants (like certain plants modified using genetic use restriction technology) may produce seed, but not a fertile seed.
Some early molecular phylogenies suggested it was the sister group to all other angiosperms, but more recent research suggests that it is the sister group to the eudicots.
IDD - incomplete distribution data Anthocerotophyta (hornworts) Anthocerotaceae Notothyladaceae Bryophyta (mosses) Andreaeaceae Andreaeobryaceae Archidiaceae Aulacomniaceae Bartramiaceae Bryaceae Catoscopiaceae Hypopterygiaceae Meesiaceae === Mniaceae ===
In response to stimuli An important aspect of plant behavior includes responding to directional stimuli, which requires changes in the cellular signaling to control spatial elements.
Recent supplement products have included ginseng as a core ingredient in formulations aimed at enhancing vitality, stamina, and hormonal balance in men.
After Vasek hypothesized that the creosote ring was, in fact, one organism, Leonel da Silveira Lobo O'Reilly Sternberg (then a graduate student working in Vasek's lab), documented that plants within a ring had more similar characteristics than those from other plant clusters.
In dicots, the hypocotyl is what appears to be the base stem under the spent withered cotyledons, and the shoot just above that is the epicotyl.
In Bhutan, it has been found growing on damp mossy logs in shady ravines within wet mixed broad-leaved forest.
It is also used: To treat night blindness or optic atrophy, either alone or as a component of Shi Ju Ming.
The optimal densities vary based on desired plant size, location and a variety of environmental factors and range from 30,000 to 90,000 plants per Hectare for Maize to 40 to 872 plants per square meter (400,000 - 8,720,000 per Hectare) for Winter Wheat.
The ferns are also referred to as Polypodiophyta or, when treated as a subdivision of Tracheophyta (vascular plants), Polypodiopsida, although this name sometimes only refers to leptosporangiate ferns.
However, there is still a great deal left unknown in how exactly an extracellular stimulus leads to cytoskeletal rearrangement, nuclear movement, and ultimately integration of stimuli to guide plant behavior.
Minerals are absorbed in the roots (a source) and transported to the shoots to allow cell division and growth.
These ascospores land on young shoots, leaf buds, and flower buds of blueberry plants, where they cause a primary infection.
They also play a role as replacement vegetation when the alder grove is destroyed, as well as constituting the dominant vegetation of the riverbanks in those mountain areas that lack alder groves due to altitude, generally above 1000 meters.
Uses The leaves can be used to make an herbal tea (tisane), and the berries are edible and taste sweet.
montana are subtle; they can breed with each other, and introduced kudzu populations in the United States apparently have ancestry from more than one of the subspecies.
The starch is occasionally marketed commercially as "arrowroot", a name also applied to the starch of other similar roots crops such as Maranta arundinacea.
Eine Enzyklopädie zu eponymischen Pflanzennamen [Encyclopedia of eponymic plant names] (pdf) (in German).
The first bulletin in 1942 described how in Derbyshire: "The Hathersage Women's Institutes dried fifty pounds of materials chiefly nettles in the attic of a house, and the Clifton and Mayfield Boy Scouts dried seventy-six pounds of Foxglove at their headquarters.
It has received attention as a potential energy crop, and research is currently being conducted on the use of the crop's biomass in bioethanol production.
The genes used to form the constituents of secondary cells walls have also been found in Physcomitrella patens.
Species which are commonly referred to as whitebeams can be found in several genera, five of which are the result of intergeneric hybridisation.
In Bhutan, both known locations are threatened by deforestation, overgrazing, and industrial and housing development.
The disease may overwinter in dead leaf debris, in crown buds, or in seeds (UW-Extension, 2006: Pacific Northwest Extension, 2019).
The report calls on UN member states to design and interpret seed policies and plant variety protection laws in a way that protects farmers' rights and promotes their seed systems rather than restricting them.
International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (Shenzhen Code) adopted by the Nineteenth International Botanical Congress Shenzhen, China, July 2017 (electronic ed.).
For example, Cirsium heterophyllum has very soft spines, while Cirsium spinosissimum is the opposite.
in 2011, but Christenhusz and Chase, in 2014, reverted to combining the trichomanoid clades into Trichomanes.
Ornamental companies create new flower colour by classical and mutation breeding and biotechnological approaches.
Erythrina herbacea, Creek women used an infusion of the root for bowel pain; the Choctaw used a decoction of the leaves as a general tonic; the Seminole used an extract of the roots for digestive problems, and extracts of the seeds, or of the inner bark, as an external rub for rheumatic disorders.
It produces trumpet-shaped, orange to red flowers up to 3 in (8 cm) long that appear in loose clusters of 6 to 12.
It is sometimes considered that the word 'dog' has a disparaging meaning in this context, indicating 'worthless' as compared with cultivated garden roses.
Common mould genera that grow in buildings include Cladosporium, Stachybotrys, Penicillium, or Aspergillus.
Recent studies have suggested a revision to the name of section Vireya; the section Vireya is referred to as Schistanthe, but contains all the subsections associated with the previous name.
Leaf closure and opening is mediated by the relative concentrations of leaf opening and closing factors in a plant.
All tuberhybrida go dormant for the winter, and upright varieties benefit from staking to support the flowers.
Hyperaccumulators table – 1 Cs-137 activity was much smaller in leaves of larch and sycamore maple than of spruce: spruce > larch > sycamore maple.
The white colour is expressed by the air present in the vacuoles that absorb the light, without air the flower loses the white colour.
In some species, the separator remains in the follicle until it has cooled; once cooled, the separator loosens and falls out, and the seeds follow.
Some have modified fleshy lumps on the upper surface generally referred to as the callus (plural: calli), with some being divided into multiple ridges or a central keel.
It is frequently planted in semi-arid areas like California's Central Valley, central Texas and Oklahoma.
In orchids, the labellum is the modified median petal that sits opposite from the fertile anther and usually highly modified from the other perianth segments.
Tilled in the apartment in the summer tolerates well room temperature, in winter it is better to take it to a colder room with a temperature not exceeding 16 °C.
The secondary cell wall consists primarily of cellulose, along with other polysaccharides, lignin, and glycoprotein.
Sandstone is a common substrate, but it can also be found on schist, gneiss, granite, or other acidic rocks.
In a report from 2009 the UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food, Olivier De Schutter, analysed the impact of UPOV on the right to food.
However, the new tree inherits characteristics of both its parents, and it will not grow true to the variety of either parent from which it came.
It appears as a thin, superficial growth consisting of minute hyphae (fungal filaments) produced especially on living plants or organic matter such as wood, paper or leather.
fuscocinereum: Hieracium godbyense - rare Hieracium oistophyllum - rare Hieracium penduliforme - rare Hieracium philanthrax Hieracium karelorum Hieracium aggr.
Vigorous upright water sprouts often develop in response to various factors such as physical damage, heavy pruning (or pruning in general), sub-par environmental conditions (drought, overhydration, or improper soil conditions), and in response to pest and/or disease.
A resurrection plant is a plant that can survive extreme dehydration of its vegetative tissues and resume normal metabolic activity upon rehydration.
The initiative was taken by the British botanist Arthur Tansley at the International Geographic Congress in Geneva in 1908.
Structure Trunks, the stems of woody plants, connect the roots to the upper branches, canopy, and leaves.
Evolution The first lignified secondary walls evolved 430 million years ago, creating the structure necessary for vascular plants.
Because leaves can take such diverse forms within a single species, these are a poor measure of diversity, although differing structures of wood point to the existence of diverse ginkgo forests in ancient times.
The Wood Reference Collection is the only xylarium in Australia still in use for the identification of wood specimens.
In botany, a whorl or verticil is a whorled arrangement of leaves, sepals, petals, stamens, or carpels that radiate from a single point and surround or wrap around the stem or stalk.
Domatia are also found in some rainforest tree species in the families Alangiaceae, Elaeocarpaceae, Fabaceae, Icacinaceae, Meliaceae, Rubiaceae, Sapindaceae and Simaroubaceae.
In the early twentieth century, after visiting the cathedral and seeing the rose, author Mabel Wagnalls was inspired to write a book, which went on to form the basis of a silent film.
In Santalales, an order of parasitic plants, the relationships between the families are not completely understood.
These burn with a great deal of particulate emission, so condensation of water vapor on the particulate soot prevents condensation on plants and raises the air temperature very slightly.
The reduction of mitochondrial redox potential by alternative oxidase increases unproductive respiration.
Use of modern microscopy and micromanipulation techniques allows the four haploid spores of a yeast tetrad to be separated and germinated individually to form isolated spore colonies.
The "callaloo" made in Jamaica is different from the "callaloo" made in Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada, and the rest of the Caribbean in terms of the main ingredient (the leaf used) and other ingredients included.
Because dieback thrives in moist soil conditions, it can be a severe problem for Banksias that are watered, such as in the cut flower industry and urban gardens.
India has adopted a plant breeders' rights law that has been rejected by the UPOV Council as not meeting the requirements of the treaty.
However, the by far does not live up to the scientific standards for impact assessments and has been criticized being heavily biased.
For example, the conifers of Pinus bungeana and the stems of Pelargonium have the Casparian strip, which may be related to preventing water dispersion or pathogenic invasion.
When his followers finally found the Emperor he pledged that he would construct a cathedral to honour the Virgin where the mound with the rose was.
Invalid names: Astilbe ×arendsii Arends Astilbe ×hybrida Ievinya & Lusinya References Other websites Photos
Ubisch bodies, con-peito grains) are small acellular structures of sporopollenin that might occur on the inner tangential and radial walls of tapetal cells.
Ecology and conservation Asplenium tutwilerae is found growing on ledges of conglomerate, which contains siliceous pebbles in a matrix rich in iron, with a little calcium.
Howorth, in an effort to give the members of her society a broader selection, began ordering seeds from Speas in large quantities.
Unlike the GRM and CCH, it is able to incorporate the type of damage received since different modes of herbivory may cause different resources to be affected by herbivory.
One subfamily, the Encephalartoideae, is characterized by spirally arranged sporophylls (rather than spirally orthostichous), non-articulate leaflets and persistent leaf bases.
Peak spore production and infection occurs around 65 °F, though the pathogen is active in temperatures between 40 and 85 °F (Goldberg, 2000).
A ligule (from Latin: ligula "strap", variant of lingula, from lingua "tongue") is a thin outgrowth at the junction of leaf and leafstalk of many grasses (family Poaceae) and sedges (family Cyperaceae).
Lycopodium powder, the dried spores of the common clubmoss, was used in Victorian theater to produce flame-effects.
Botany The plants possess leathery leaves, ranging from 3 to 6 inches in length, and produce large clusters of tiny flowers in the summer.
Seed plants Seed plants, which first appeared in the fossil record towards the end of the Paleozoic era, reproduce using desiccation-resistant capsules called seeds.
Its parents are Cytisus multiflorus (the white Spanish broom) and Cytisus oromediterraneus (the Pyrenean broom).
However, the South American bee Euglossa cordata pollinates both resupinate and non-resupinate orchid flowers.
Bay leaves contain essential oils, such as eucalyptol, terpenes, and methyleugenol, which contribute to their taste and aroma.
Jersey The Visite du Branchage takes place in each parish twice a year to check that occupiers of houses and land bordering on public roads have undertaken the 'branchage'.
Forbs are generally defined as herbaceous broad-leafed plants, while graminoids are plants with grass-like appearance including true grasses, sedges, and rushes.
In one study, an estimated 13680 seedlings were counted over June–October following an experimental bushfire, but by January only eleven plants remained.
This is in contrast to the seedbed method used more commonly in domestic gardening or more specific (modern) agricultural scenarios where the seed is applied beneath the soil surface and monitored and manually tended frequently to ensure more successful growth rates and better yields.
Especially with easily infected tropical fruit such as lychees and rambutans, seed washing with high-temperature water is vital.
In dendrochronology, with the exception of trees grown in specific environments (such as near the equator) and under certain pressures (drought), each tree ring generally represents a period of one year of growth.
Sympodial species grow from the soil in a slowly expanding tuft, while monopodial species send underground rhizomes to produce shoots several metres from the original "parent" plant.
Heat and drought as a result of climate change has been found to severely impact tree mortality rates, putting forest ecosystems at high risk.
West Indian bay leaf, the leaf of the West Indian bay tree (Pimenta racemosa, Myrtaceae) is used culinarily (especially in Caribbean cuisine) and to produce the cologne called bay rum.
The rhizome may be 0.5 to 2 centimeters (0.2 to 0.8 in) long and 0.3 to 0.5 centimeters (0.12 to 0.20 in) in diameter.
divided Rutaceae into only two subfamilies, a small Cneoroideae, and a greatly enlarged subfamily Rutoideae s.l.
In botany, a bud is an undeveloped or embryonic shoot and normally occurs in the axil of a leaf or at the tip of a stem.
A Visite du Branchage is an inspection of roads in Jersey and Guernsey to ensure property owners have complied with the laws against vegetation encroaching onto the road.
It is often confused with Kalanchoe daigremontiana which has strongly cordate to auriculate or even peltate leaves, while the leaves of Kalanchoe × houghtonii are narrower and the leaf base is attenuate, cuneate to weakly cordate or auriculate.
Dewey finds an ancient hybridization event contributed significantly to the modern hexaploid multi-genome – and as with all other currently grown Triticeae crops, wheat is an annual.
bulbifera Lilium bulbiferum Lilium lancifolium Lysimachia terrestris Oxalis inaequalis Pinellia ternata Saxifraga cernua Woodwardia radicans See also Propagule == References ==
In seed plants, the ovule is the structure that gives rise to and contains the female reproductive cells.
Trinidadians and Saint Lucians, however, use dasheen bush, okra, coconut milk, pumpkin, onions, bell peppers, local seasonings, and spices, along with crabs or pigtails.
In the same way, the name of a particular variety of Acanthocalycium klimpelianum is Acanthocalycium klimpelianum var.
Orbicules are resistant to acetolysis and react to histochemical staining in a similar way as the pollen exine, indicating that they are composed of sporopollenin.
The PO is intended for multiple applications, including genetics, genomics, phenomics, and development, taxonomy and systematics, semantic applications and education.
All land plants, and most multicellular algae, have life cycles in which a multicellular diploid sporophyte phase alternates with a multicellular haploid gametophyte phase.
Distribution and habitat Ferns are widespread in their distribution, with the greatest richness in the tropics and least in arctic areas.
The flesh of the berry is replaced with mycelium, with only the skin remaining, rendering the berry inedible.
Taxonomy Eight New Zealand native species are known by the name: Coriaria angustissima Coriaria arborea Coriaria kingiana Coriaria lurida Coriaria plumosa Coriaria pottsiana Coriaria pteridoides Coriaria sarmentosa Description They are shrubs or trees; some are endemic to New Zealand.
Lately, cultivation has spread to other regions, such as New Zealand and the southeast of Australia.
Interviews On 6 May 2019, Worton was interviewed on ITV's programme This Morning by television presenters Eamonn Holmes and Rochelle Humes, to talk about her new book.
It was often used in the names of herbs and plants that had medicinal uses, the first part of the word denoting the complaint against which it might be specially efficacious.
When the berries are ripe, they are tender and difficult to pick in any quantity without squashing them.
Most Ericales species tend to have woody stems or branches, seed capsules, cellular endosperm and ladder-like vessel perforations.
There are 26 native plant species, and there has been 76 species of introduced plants recorded on the island.
Seed drill In agriculture, most seed is now sown using a seed drill, which offers the best precision; seed is sown evenly and at the desired rate.
'mountain ginseng') grows naturally in mountains and is hand-picked by gatherers known as simmani (심마니).
Trichomanes – more than 30 species Cephalomanes C.Presl 1843 – about 4 species Callistopteris Copel.
These ontologies describe anatomical structures and growth and developmental stages across Viridiplantae.
Where a thicket is formed of briar (also spelled brier), which is a number of unrelated thorny plants, it may be called a briar patch.
Other cultivars are becoming available: 'Summer Chocolate' has red foliage ageing to dark bronze, with pale pink flowers; 'Ishii Weeping' (or 'Pendula') has a drooping growth habit.
This single clonal colony plant of Larrea tridentata reaches up to 67 feet (20 metres) in diameter, with an average diameter of 45 feet (14 m).
The plants nearest the center usually died, while the ones further out often featured "tumors and other growth abnormalities".
Etymology The specific epithet lotubela is derived from the name, which local people call this species.
Sonchus, Helianthus, Asteraceae) Free-central placentation: Derived from axile as partitions are absorbed, leaving ovules at the central axis.
The new Soil Conservation Service grew seventy million kudzu seedlings and paid $8 an acre (equivalent to $184 in 2025) to anyone who would sow the vine.
It is the dried rhizome of Atractylodes lancea (Thunb.) DC., synonyms Atractylodes chinensis (DC.) Koidz, and Atractylodes japonica Koidz.
In angiosperms (flowering plants), the term locule usually refers to a chamber within an ovary (gynoecium or carpel) of the flower and fruits.
The harvesting and sales of nyatoh has been criticized by some environmental groups, who have won agreements in the United States to not resell the wood from various furniture and home-improvement chains.
Parietal tapeta are the dominant type in land plants and occur in the extant ‘basal’ angiosperm groups and in most fossil taxa; it is therefore considered as the plesiomorphic condition in angiosperms.
This work made a profound impression on the botanist Gherardo Cibo, who then illustrated some of the plants featured in Mattioli's work (with roots, flowers and fruit) in close-up set against a backdrop of a real (often inhabited) landscape depicting their natural environment.
Ixora also grows commonly in subtropical climates in the United States, such as Florida where it is commonly known as West Indian jasmine.
The triangle of U ( OO) is a theory about the evolution and relationships among the six most commonly known members of the plant genus Brassica.
laevigatum: Hieracium laevigatum Hieracium lissolepium - rare Hieracium tridentatum - rare Hieracium aggr.
Slowly, the pockets break off as tiny vacuoles that carry tannins to the large vacuole filled with acidic fluid.
thaliana geneticists had become HHMI investigators: Joanne Chory (1997, also awarded a 2018 Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences), Daphne Preuss (2000-2006), and Steve Jacobsen (2005).
Characteristics Thickets are characterized by dense plant life, a low closed canopy, deep shale-derived soil, and high levels of soil carbon and nitrogen.
Stolons have longer internodes and function as means of seeking out light and are used for propagation of the plant, while rhizomes are used as storage organs for carbohydrates and the maintenance of meristem tissue to keep the parent plant alive from one year to the next.
Other species, including dwarf thistle (Cirsium acaule), musk thistle (Carduus nutans), and melancholy thistle (Cirsium heterophyllum) have also been suggested.
The dewberries are a group of species in the genus Rubus, section Rubus, closely related to the blackberries.
The Angiosperm Phylogeny Website (or APweb) is a website that presents up-to-date research on the phylogeny and taxonomy of flowering plants (angiosperms) in what is intended to be a user-friendly way.
Verzeichnis eponymischer Pflanzennamen – Erweiterte Edition [Index of Eponymic Plant Names – Extended Edition] (pdf) (in German).
Some of the oldest still-viable seeds were those of Lotus (Nelumbo nucifera) found buried in the soil of a pond; these seeds were estimated by carbon dating to be around 1,200 years old.
It disfigures the inflorescence, mainly causing symptoms in the ray florets, but can also be visible on the leaves.
The callus can be highly modified with striking colors that may aid in pollinator deceit and mimicry.
Caroline Dean was awarded many honors including the 2020 Wolf Prize in Agriculture for "pioneering discoveries in flowering time control and epigenetic basis of vernalization" made with A.
While small compared to other countries, the Maltese Islands contain flowers that grow on Malta, Gozo, Comino, Filfla, St Paul's Islands and Fungus Rock.
Construction costs is a concept in biology that conveys how much glucose is required to construct a unit of plant biomass, given the biosynthetic pathways and starting from glucose and mineral constituents.
As an example, the dynamics of the calcareous grassland were significantly impacted due to the climate factors.
David Stenhouse (born 23 May 1932, in Sutton, Surrey, England) was an English philosopher and biologist.
Annonoideae is a subfamily of plants in the family Annonaceae, with genera distributed in tropical areas world-wide.
According to some studies, the Casparian strip begins as a localized deposition of phenolic and unsaturated fatty substances in the middle lamella between the radial walls, as partly oxidized films.
Another example is Impatiens, whose explosive dehiscence is triggered by being touched, leading it to be called the "touch-me-not".
The research undertaken at Brogdale did not continue but there has been renewed academic interest in own root fruit trees since the turn of the century.
The plant’s root senses the water excess and produces 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid which then is converted into ethylene, regulating this process.
Distribution and habitat Endemic to the tropical eastern Himalayas, Bazzania bhutanica is known only from two locations in Bhutan and one location in northeast India.
"Beyond the compensatory continuum: environmental resource levels and plant tolerance of herbivory".
Both inbreeding and crossing the ancestral lines of the hybrid are costly, because of the time and number of generations involved, which translates into a much higher price.
F1 hybrid (also known as filial 1 hybrid) is the first filial generation of offspring of distinctly different parental types.
The term is most frequently applied to certain fruit or hypanthium structures with the apical end attached to the stem; however, less frequently the usage may apply to the pistil structure.
The term pinnula (plural: pinnulae) is the Latin diminutive of pinna (plural: pinnae); either as such or in the Anglicised form: pinnule, it is differently defined by various authorities.
They vary in growth habit, some kinds trailing with pendulant flowers, others with sturdy, upright stalks.
Etymology and historical usage The derivation of the word obconic is based upon the Greek with the common prefix ob, meaning inverted, and the Greek word for angle gon or gonia, followed by the generic suffix ic.
They are more deeply cut than the smaller fronds; the basal one-quarter to one-third of the blade is cut into pinnae, the middle half is lobed, while the remainder tapers towards the tip much like the smaller fronds, with irregular margins.
1938 – about 5 species Distribution and habitat The great majority of the species are found in tropical rainforests, but some also occur in temperate rainforests (particularly New Zealand, with 25 species) and slightly drier forest regions.
In Mexico, it is called nogal de Castilla, suggesting the Mexicans associated the introduction of the tree into Mexico with Spaniards from Castile (as opposed to the black walnuts native to North America).
Under the 1978 Act, the minimum scope of the plant breeder's right requires that the holder's prior authorization is necessary for the production for purposes of commercial marketing, the offering for sale and the marketing of propagating material of the protected variety.
At first, he needed to make available plant material, even in winter, hence his Hortus hiemalis (winter garden) or Hortus siccus (dry garden).
Further relationships The framework proposed by Woo, although backed by modern studies, leaves open questions about the time and place of hybridization and which species is the maternal or paternal parent.
Description Phalaenopsis × lotubela is an epiphytic plant with 5–7, 12–20 cm long and 6–9 cm wide leaves.
The syconium of Ficus species supply shelter and food for fig wasps and the trees depend on the fig wasps for pollination.
John Stenhouse, was a lecturer in History at Massey University, and is currently Associate Professor in History at the University of Otago.
In the Indian state of Kerala, royal poinciana is called kaalvarippoo (കാൽവരിപ്പൂവ്, kālvarippūv) which means "the flower of Calvary".
Thus the name of a particular species of Acanthocalycium is Acanthocalycium klimpelianum, which can be abbreviated to A.
The family includes several complexes of species that are difficult to distinguish, and seem to represent a remarkable evolutionary radiation.
Ecosystems that are considered semi-arid and savanna-type (SAST) are less consistent and the range in both climate and plant species within these ecosystems vary significantly.
It has been reported from hosts in the genera Bartsia, Bellardia, Melampyrum, Odontites, Pedicularis, and Rhinanthus.
Along with cryptochromes and phytochromes they allow plants to respond and alter their growth in response to the light environment.
In New Hampshire, infection rates reached 85%, with organic farms having nearly 100% loss rates, as of 2021.
The most widely accepted theory states that the endogenous heat helps in spreading chemicals that attract pollinators to the plant.
In some species of ferns, there is virtually no difference between the fertile and sterile fronds, such as in the genus Dryopteris, other than the mere presence of the sori, or fruit-dots, on the back of the fronds.
Higher performance: As most alleles code for different versions of a protein or enzyme, having two different versions of this allele amounts to having two different versions of the enzyme.
The web-based submission tool for small datasets and Java desktop submission tool for gigabyte scale datasets use the ELIXIR Authentication and authorization infrastructure (AAI).
The alismatids have adapted to thrive in oceans, temperate zones, deserts, the tropics, and even glacial regions.
In the early stages of growth, the sporophyte grows out of the prothallus, depending on it for water supply and nutrition, but develops into a new independent fern, which will produce new spores that will grow into new prothallia etc., thus completing the life cycle of the organism.
Distribution As of August 2025, Plants of the World Online gave the distribution as Austria and the former Czechoslovakia.
Hosts and symptoms Peronospora trifoliorum commonly infects numerous strains and varieties of alfalfa.
In Yunnan, it has been documented at higher elevations of 2,732 m (8,963 ft) in undisturbed wet mossy forests dominated by hemlock (Tsuga) and rhododendron trees, where it grows on wet, mossy surfaces of large boulders along streams.
Conservation status Bazzania bhutanica is listed as critically endangered on the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Red List under criteria B1 and B2c, based on its limited distribution and the apparent decline of its habitat.
James and his wife Gladys in the village of Islip, as well as in the Oxford Botanic Garden where they set up the Oxford Medicinal Plants Scheme.
Each of these cases was decided on the principle that patents and plant breeders' rights were overlapping and not mutually exclusive.
Stenhouse, David (1986), "Conceptual Change in Science Education: Paradigms and Language-Games", Science Education, 70 (4): 413–25, Bibcode:1986SciEd..70..413S, doi:10.1002/sce.3730700407 == References ==
The genus was formally created by Linnaeus in 1753, as it was noted by Hendrik van Rheede that the flowers of what he noted as schetti (and named by Rheede as Ixora coccinea) were offered in temples in the Malabar.
A ligule can also be defined as a membrane-like tissue or row of delicate hairs typically found in grasses at the junction of the leaf sheath and blade.
Tachyspory is a form of dehiscence where seed is rapidly released from a cone or fruit upon maturity, as opposed to bradyspory, the gradual release of seed over time.
The hourly growth factor is 8, which means that for every 1 at the beginning of the hour, there are 8 by the end.
FDA and warning letters Ginseng supplements are not subjected to the same pre-market approval process in the US by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as pharmaceutical drugs.
Overview The site is hosted by the Missouri Botanical Garden website and maintained by researchers, Peter F.
Culinarily, Indian bay leaves are quite different, having a fragrance and taste similar to cinnamon (cassia) bark, but milder.
Researchers have found a direct correlation between leaf thickness and Relative Water Content (RWC) of plant leaves using the SG-1000 Leaf Sensor under field conditions.
The fruit body traces the process of the venetion, whereby the structure of its subsurface becomes plainly strand-shaped, branched, net or ring-shaped.
A catkin or ament is a slim, cylindrical flower cluster (a spike), with inconspicuous or no petals, usually wind-pollinated (anemophilous) but sometimes insect-pollinated (as in Salix).
The subfamily also has a basal chromosome count of n=67, versus counts of n=23, 34 in the Lycopodiaceae.
Its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical dry forests, subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, rocky shores, and sandy shores.
longipedunuclatum to be of hybrid origin, during the course of the 20th century a number of eminent botanists (e.g.
A number of these are strangler figs, as they germinate upon other trees, before entrapping their host tree entirely and eventually killing it.
perula, perulaei) (which are in fact transformed and reduced leaves) cover and protect the embryonic parts; naked, when not covered by scales; hairy, when also protected by hairs (it may apply either to scaly or to naked buds).
The use of phytotoxic compounds must take into account the integrity of the ecology both inside and outside the cave, and the health of visitors and cave guides.
Abscission can also be noted as self-pruning of the plant, as the plant will shed leaves along with branches, flowered parts, fruits and injured parts.
conducted a Near-Null Magnetic Field experiment under white light and long-day conditions using the homemade equipment of combining three couples of Helmholtz coils in vertical, north–south, east–west direction compensating near-null magnetic field.
Ancestral tracheids did not contribute significantly to structural support, as can be seen in extant ferns.
The oils consist of fatty acids and/or glycerides, but may also contain other components such as aldehydes, amino acids, carbohydrates, carotenoids, hydrocarbons, ketones, phenolic compounds, saponins and terpenes.
On 26 February 2020, Worton was again interviewed on This Morning, by Alison Hammond and Phillip Schofield, discussing the Allerton Oak, the UK's nomination for the European Tree of the Year competition, and communicating with it.
Due to the natural structure of deciduous plant species, it has a higher tolerance to environmental stress factors which may cause damages such as branch and trunk breakage when compared to evergreen species.
Tracheid length and diameter also increased, with tracheid diameter increasing to an average length of 80 μm by the end of the Devonian period.
Phylogeny The ferns are related to other groups as shown in the following cladogram: Nomenclature and subdivision The classification of Smith et al.
However, as can be seen in many variegated plants, this does not always apply, because many plants actually are chimeras and cuttings might reflect the attributes of only one or some of the parent cell lines.
Early life and family Stenhouse spent his childhood on the outskirts of London and in South-West Scotland, where his parents were from.
In botany, the labellum (or lip) is the part of the flower of an orchid or Canna, or other less-known genera, that serves to attract insects, which pollinate the flower, and acts as a landing platform for them.
The labellum is a modified petal and can be distinguished from the other petals and from the sepals by its large size and its often irregular shape.
Other sources suggest that it was first published in 1848, in additions to Maly's 1838 Flora Styriaca (Nachträge zu seiner im Jahre 1838 erschienenen Flora Styriaca von Dr.
Defense behavior The production of proteinase inhibitors reveals that plants have the ability to alter their defense behavior in response to a threat or direct attack on plant integrity.
It is endemic to South Africa where it occurs in Namaqualand, Knersvlakte, Olifants River Valley, and the West Coast.
The ring is estimated to be 11,700 years old, making it one of the oldest living organisms on Earth.
Louis Missouri Botanical Garden See also Generic Model Organism Database Open Biomedical Ontologies OBO Foundry References External links Plant Ontology Consortium Gramene TAIR MaizeGDB NASC SoyBase
The large (20 Gbp) nuclear genome and associated gene annotations of interior spruce (genotype PG29) were published in 2013 and 2015.
The book is structured around this description, the stories that each individual tree has to tell, and the advice they have to offer.
A 2021 study by Appelhans et al., which sampled many more genera than earlier studies, found that Morton and Telmer's Rutoideae was paraphyletic.
As with all cycads, members of the Zamiaceae are poisonous, producing poisonous glycosides known as cycasins.
The National Federation of Women's Institutes cooperated with the Ministry of Supply and the County Herb Committees by collecting medicinal herbs.
Secondary infection Pollinators carrying conidia land on blueberry flowers, transferring spores onto the stigma.
Consumption of the raphides can cause oral pain, vomiting, hypersalivation, and swelling of the pharynx.
It describes what we see but does not explain how plant cells actually coordinate to create such precise patterns, often accurate to within fractions of a degree.
In 2010 the University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado granted AgriHouse Inc an exclusive license of its patented leaf sensor technology.
The wood blocks and microscope samples held at the Wood Reference Collection are invaluable as the provenance of a specific piece can influence how its value is determined.
In 1888, the USDA sent Alfred Koebele to Australia to study this scale insect in its native habitat.
Sandstone is a herb in the family Commelinaceae family endemic to the Northern Territory of Australia in both Litchfield and Kakadu National Parks.
Branches consisting of the current or last season's growth can be cut into 30 cm (12 in) sections and planted in a moist potting mixture.
Description Because of confusion between the original species named by Linnaeus in 1753 and the way in which the name was used by later authors (see § Taxonomy), plants described under this name may actually belong to different species.
in 2006, the Hymenophyllales, containing the single family Hymenophyllaceae, were placed in class Polypodiopsida sensu stricto (the leptosporangiate ferns).
Plants that are exposed to elevated ethylene levels in experimental set-ups also show a hyponastic response.
List Other recorded largest seeds include: See also List of world records held by plants List of largest inflorescences List of superlative trees Seed Seedbed References External links Coco de Mer Cerf Island
In some plants the flowers have no petals, and all the tepals are sepals modified to look like petals.
As public skepticism of atomic energy grew, and as nuclear arsenals continued to increase in size across the globe, atomic gardening fell out of favor, along with other Atoms for Peace initiatives.
These chemicals include toxic non-protein amino acids, cyanogenic glycosides, protease and amylase inhibitors, and phytohemagglutinins.
fumidum Rhododendron rubiginosum subsection Lapponica Rhododendron bulu Rhododendron capitatum Rhododendron complexum Rhododendron cuneatum Rhododendron dasypetalum Rhododendron fastigiatum Rhododendron flavidum Rhododendron hippophaeoides Rhododendron hippophaeoides var.
The boundaries between a thicket and its nearby forest are defined by a lack of precipitation and overall dry environment within the thicket area, while forests receive higher levels of precipitation.
However, as a loan word in English, cedar had become fixed to its biblical sense of Cedrus by the time of its first recorded usage in AD 1000.).
Although some authors, especially in the 19th century and earlier, use the word acotyledon to include plants which have no cotyledons because they lack seeds entirely (such as ferns and mosses), others restrict the term to plants which have seeds but no cotyledons.
montanum (where the pinnae are often fully cut to pinnules), the dark color of the stipe extends into the rachis, the upper pinnae lack stems, and the overall shape of the leaf blade is parallel-sided, rather than lance-shaped.
New Breeding Techniques (NBT), also named New Plant Engineering Techniques, are a suite of methods that could increase and accelerate the development of new traits in plant breeding.
Often prepared in a beef stew dish called sos béf ak kalalou, or tomtom ak kalalou (breadfruit with kalalou).
Such a series suggests that the scales of the bud are in truth leaves, modified to protect the more delicate parts of the plant during unfavorable periods.
juncifolia (whose type specimen is also in the Wisconsin State Herbarium), thereby making the type specimen of P.
chinensis crosses, and these have been important in the ancestry of the tea-scented China roses, also called tea roses, and their descendants the hybrid tea roses.
Many ferns grow only within specific pH ranges; for instance, the climbing fern (Lygodium palmatum) of eastern North America will grow only in moist, intensely acid soils, while the bulblet bladder fern (Cystopteris bulbifera), with an overlapping range, is usually found on limestone.
In other words, if a new trait does not exist within normal cultivated plant populations in Canada, then no matter how it was developed, it will trigger the normal regulatory processes and testing.
Pitcher trap fluids largely vary in their viscoelasticity and acidity, which dictates which type of prey they can target.
A typical long-term persistent species is Chenopodium album (Lambsquarters); its seeds commonly remain viable in the soil for up to 40 years and in rare situations perhaps as long as 1,600 years.
in days) S 1 {\displaystyle S_{1}} = size at time one S 2 {\displaystyle S_{2}} = size at time two When calculating or discussing relative growth rate, it is important to pay attention to the units of time being considered.
It has been estimated that only two witchweeds would produce enough seeds required to refill a seed bank after seasonal losses.
In most taxonomies, the flowering plants are treated as a coherent group; the most popular descriptive name has been Angiospermae, with Anthophyta (lit.
The purpose of the Convention was to ensure that the member states party to the Convention acknowledge the achievements of breeders of new plant varieties by making available to them an exclusive property right, on the basis of a set of uniform and clearly defined principles.
Alternatively, farmers and many locals suggest that the formation of game farms is an effective manner in which to preserve land area and minimize human impact on a thicket.
A dense mass of shoots grows from a single point, with the resulting structure resembling a broom or a bird's nest.
Slime moulds with plasmodiocarps including Physarum aeneum, Physarum bivalve, Physarum lateritium, Diderma effusum, Physarella oblonga, Willkommlangea reticulata or Hemitrichia serpula.
pro-orbicules) within the cytoplasm of tapetal cells, most likely from the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
Asexual propagation Plant roots, stems, and leaves have a number of mechanisms for asexual or vegetative reproduction, which horticulturists employ to multiply or clone plants rapidly, such as in tissue culture and grafting.
The tree's fruit is a legume, a dry pod a few centimeters in length derived from a single carpel and contains about 8–10 chestnut-brown bean-shaped seeds.
It has been argued that for plants that display foliar nyctinasty, it is a crucial mechanism for survival; however, most plants do not exhibit any nyctinastic movements.
Honey containing tutin can be produced by honey bees feeding on honeydew produced by sap-sucking vine hopper insects (genus Scolypopa) feeding on tutu.
Cellular structures are stabilized through the accumulation of sugars such as sucrose and raffinose, which replace water and form glass-like matrices that preserve membranes and proteins.
Quercus × hispanica 'Waasland' ("Waasland select oak"), leaves display an unusual slender, lobed shape.
2-phenylethanol can influence the regulation of WRKY18, a transcription factor engaged in multiple plant hormones, one of which is abscisic acid (ABA) hormone.
The repository hosts Digital Object Identifier (DOI) citable datasets that are not being published in public repositories because of their volume or data scope.
When the undifferentiated tepals resemble petals, they are also referred to as "petaloid", as in petaloid monocots, orders of monocots with brightly coloured tepals.
By contrast in exosporous plants, including modern ferns, the gametophytes break the spore wall open on germination and develop outside it.
The contemporary use of "vegetation" approximates that of ecologist Frederic Clements' term earth cover, an expression still used by the Bureau of Land Management.
In green algae, Phototropins have been shown to be involved in process such as photoprotection, starch metabolism and phototactic behavior.
New Zealand, for which the fern is a symbol, has about 230 species, distributed throughout the country.
Transporting crowns in soil removed from a kudzu infestation is one common way that kudzu unexpectedly spreads and shows up in new locations.
Examples include the tribes Caprini (goat-antelopes), Hominini (hominins), Bombini (bumblebees), and Thunnini (tunas).
This species is also commonly cultivated and may escape cultivation and be found in areas outside of its core range.
Indian bay leaves are about twice as long and wider, usually olive green in colour, and have three veins running the length of the leaf.
Some other species, such as Polystichum acrostichoides (Christmas fern), or some ferns of the genus Osmunda, feature dimorphism on a portion of the frond only.
Shiraia sp Slf14 is an endophytic fungus present in Huperzia serrata that produces Huperzine A, a biomedical compound which has been approved as a drug in China and a dietary supplement in the U.S.
Bechstein's Naturgeschichte der schädlichen Waldinsecten (1798–1800) focused on harmful forest insects, thus offering valuable insights for forestry and agricultural entomology.
Lampenflora, also known in English as lamp-flora or lamp flora are autotrophic lifeforms present in natural or artificial caves associated with permanently installed lighting.
Allohexaploid species In 2011 and 2018, novel allohexaploids (AABBCC) located at the "center" of the triangle of U were created by different means, for example by crossing B.
It is widespread in scattered locations across much of Canada from Newfoundland to British Columbia, and the central and eastern United States as far south as Texas and Georgia.
Morphotypes A, B, and C would finally transition to tricussate (alternative or ternately whorled) leaves like K.
Based on a 2013 DNA analysis using amplified fragment length polymorphisms of wild-rose samples from a transect across Europe (900 samples from section Caninae, and 200 from other sections), it has been suggested that the following named species are best considered as belonging to a single R.
Seedling growth and maturation Once the seedling starts to photosynthesize, it is no longer dependent on the seed's energy reserves.
Pulvinus cells are located at the base or apex of the petiole and the flux of water from the dorsal to ventral motor cells regulates leaf closure.
platyphllum Rhododendron collettianum Rhododendron fragrans Rhododendron kongboense Rhododendron laudandum Rhododendron laudandum var.
Fungicides containing copper prevent new infection but these are readily washed off by rain and are not suitable for forestry use.
Its leaves are large and frond-like: They are bipinnate, divided into 6–12 pairs of pinnae, each with 20–30 pairs of leaflets.
The stolon is commonly found in bread molds, and are seen as horizontally expanding across the mold.
Etymology The specific epithet leucorrhoda, composed of leuco meaning white and rhodo meaning rose-coloured, is derived from the floral colouration.
North America United States The United States Department of Agriculture is responsible for determining whether food products derived from NBTs should be regulated, and this is undertaken on a case-by-case manner under the US Plant Protection Act.
It is produced if the plasmodium concentrates during the fructification and pull back into the venetion of the plasmodium, from which the fruit body is created.
In Italy, the government has banned any claims of turmeric health benefits and mandated warning for turmeric-based supplements.
This fruit develops from a gynoecium composed of two fused carpels, which, upon fertilization, grow to become a silique that contains the developing seeds.
Sclerenchymatous idioblasts are thickened structural cells that provide stability and rigidity to the plant.
Crystals form in plants when there is an excess of minerals available and play various roles in plant function.
Hydrilla use stolons that produce tubers to spread themselves and to survive dry periods in aquatic habitats.
Some of the plants in this order are invasive aquatic weeds that can disrupt and destabilize ecosystems.
Gallery See also Bodhi Tree Midh Ranjha tree References External links Stranglers and Banyans, palomar.edu Plant Cultures: Banyan tree history and botany, plantcultures.org.uk
The use of tetrads in fine-structure genetic analysis is described in the articles Neurospora crassa and Gene conversion.
While Hybridization and breeding methods have produced successful crop species, declining yield is a major challenge.
Leaves of plants grown at elevated CO2 may have a few percent higher construction costs, as do leaves that have been growing at higher light intensities.
Formation and functions Tannosomes are formed when the chloroplast membrane forms pockets filled with tannin.
If excessive condensation forms on the inside of the lid, the gardener can open the ventilating holes to regulate the temperature a little.
It is a typical species of the Mediterranean region that shuns cold and excessively dry climates and that appears in Cantabria in a relict form.
Composition of Scientific Words : A manual of methods and a lexicon of materials for the practice of logotechnics.
Macroflora is also an informal term used by many palaeobotanists to refer to an assemblage of plant fossils as preserved in the rock.
Overview The buds of many woody plants, especially in temperate or cold climates, are protected by a covering of modified leaves called scales which tightly enclose the more delicate parts of the bud.
Potential applications The mechanisms underlying desiccation tolerance in resurrection plants have attracted interest for improving drought and desiccation tolerance in crop species.
If twigs of witch's brooms are grafted onto normal rootstocks, freak trees result, showing that the attacking organism has changed the inherited growth pattern of the twigs.
A compressed cyme, which is a determinate inflorescence, is called umbelliform if it resembles an umbel.
Food, medical and musical uses Tutu has a variety of food, medical and musical uses in traditional Māori culture.
This species is generally considered to be of hybrid origin, with the two parental species being Helianthus tuberosus and Helianthus pauciflorus.
To be a true Lucombe oak, cultivars must be clones of the original hybrid arising in William Lucombe's Exeter nursery.
This family includes the titan arum, with the world's largest unbranched inflorescence, and also the world's smallest flowering plant, duckweed.
There are primarily two different forms of hybridization: natural hybridization in an uncontrolled environment, whereas artificial hybridization (or breeding) occurs primarily for the agricultural purposes.
(De Candolle used the term perigonium or perigone for the tepals collectively; the term is since used as a synonym for perianth.) Origin Undifferentiated tepals are believed to be the ancestral condition in flowering plants.
Occurrence Catkin-bearing plants include many trees or shrubs such as birch, willow, aspen, hickory, sweet chestnut, and sweetfern (Comptonia).
The wings in turn enclose a pair of small keel petals, that are situated somewhat lower than the wings, but are interior to them.
Omega hydroxy acids (ω-hydroxy acids) are a class of naturally occurring straight-chain aliphatic organic acids n carbon atoms long with a carboxyl group at position 1 (the starting point for the family of carboxylic acids), and a hydroxyl at terminal position n where n > 3.
The asterids as a whole (the euasterids plus two orders of basal asterids) represent almost a third of all flowering plant species.
Once the end of the stem has grown long enough the process can be repeated, creating the appearance of a row of plants linked by humped, intermittently buried stems.
Since the frequency of tetrad segregation types is influenced by the recombination frequency for the two markers, the segregation data can be used to calculate the genetic distance between the markers if they are close on the same chromosome.
Alismatid families See also List of plant family names with etymologies Notes Citations References Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (2016).
In endangered habitats, such as mudflats, rare and critically endangered species may be present in high densities, the composition of the seed bank is often more stable than the vegetation to environmental changes.
Some authors have used the clade Ginkgophyta to encompass both Ginkgoales and Czekanowskiales/Leptostrobales, which are suggested to be closely related groups.
Measurement of pressure Until recently, the differential pressure (suction) of transpirational pull could only be measured indirectly, by applying external pressure with a pressure bomb to counteract it.
abies clonal group in Dalarna, Sweden, nicknamed "Old Tjikko" has reproduced by layering, reaching a claimed age of 9,550 years for the clone as a whole, though not for the small trees that are part of it.
In horticulture, stratification is a process of treating seeds to simulate natural conditions that the seeds must experience before germination can occur.
Submerged plants often show a hyponastic response, where the upward bending of the leaves and the elongation of the petioles might help the plant to restore normal gas exchange with the atmosphere.
A characteristic arrangement of pines is that the male cones are located at the base of the branch, while the female at the tip (of the same or a different branchlet).
Our turnips, parsnips, and carrots are here both bigger and sweeter than is ordinary to be found in England.
Some produce an auxin hormone which promotes plant growth and plays a role in the life cycle of the bacteria.
The semi-cylindrical base of the banner embraces and compresses two equal and smaller lateral wings (or alae).
This article covers known hyperaccumulators, accumulators or species tolerant to the following: Aluminium (Al), Silver (Ag), Arsenic (As), Beryllium (Be), Chromium (Cr), Copper (Cu), Manganese (Mn), Mercury (Hg), Molybdenum (Mo), Naphthalene, Lead (Pb), Selenium (Se) and Zinc (Zn).
A stolon is a plant propagation strategy and the complex of individuals formed by a mother plant and all its clones produced from stolons form a single genetic individual, a genet.
Plum blossoms mixed with sage leaves and flowers were used in plum wine or plum brandy as a mouthwash to sooth sore throats and mouth ailments and sweeten bad breath.
The name was created by the American botanist Liberty Hyde Bailey who in 1914, writes "The large number of forms of the common geranium, derives from the variation and probably the crossing of P.
The Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I) recognizes three extant genera: Huperzia (temperate firmosses); about 25 species; terrestrial.
An important class of myrmecodomatia comprise large, hollow spines of certain acacias such as Acacia sphaerocephala, in which ants of the genera Pseudomyrmex and Tetraponera make their nests.
& Thomson (synonym Richella A.Gray) Neostenanthera Exell (synonym Boutiquea Le Thomas) Bocageeae Auth.: Endlicher 1839 Bocagea A.St.-Hil.
Development The requirements for the development of lampenflora are sufficient (artificial) light and moisture.
It is a caterpillar known as the worst pest for this plant and primarily found in the Southern United States.
Based on a few behavior changes due to variations of the magnetic field, many plant scientists have paid attention to cryptochrome being the candidate for the magneto-sensory receptor.
Many other signal cascades as well as the translocation of signal molecules through the phloem and xylem of the plant are also necessary for the production of these inhibitors.
The phenomenon is relatively common in some tropical plant families with decussate leaf arrangement, such as Melastomataceae, Gesneriaceae and Urticaceae as well as in certain species of other families.
In a famous historical story, Darwin predicted that the Angraecum sesquipedale, an orchid with an extremely long spur, must be pollinated by a pollinator with an equally long proboscis.
The development of bulbils in this group is common in approximately 17 Agave species, all Furcraea species, and has been somewhat documented in Yucca (particularly Yucca elata), and Hesperaloe.
G.202 Geneva 202(CG 4202) is a semidwarfing rootstock that produces a tree in class 5 slightly larger than M.26(Size Class 4) and is more productive than M.26.
Quercus × hispanica 'Wageningen' ("Wageningen oak") Quercus × hispanica 'Fulhamensis' ("Fulham oak") == References ==
Most domatia are inhabited either by mites or ants, in what can be a mutualist relationship, but other arthropods such as thrips may take parasitic advantage of the protection offered by this structure.
This is because the smaller plants do not have enough volume to create a considerable amount of heat.
Like most asterids, these species tend to have petals that are fused with each other and with the bases of the stamens, and just one integument (covering) around the embryo sac.
References External links NC State University, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences page for Campsis x tagliabuana
Metamers are repeated units of development, in which each unit derives from a single cell, but the resulting product tissue or part is largely the same for each cell.
Current studies on epiphytic bacteria are underway for biotechnological applications areas such as the promotion of plant growth.
A typical young seedling consists of three main parts: the radicle (embryonic root), the hypocotyl (embryonic shoot), and the cotyledons (seed leaves).
He did spare the rose, and built the cathedral in a way that the rose is growing now behind the altar in the apse.
Although the subfamily Cryptogrammoideae is similar to the family Cryptogrammaceae proposed by Pichi Sermolli in 1963, that group contained the morphologically similar genus Onychium (now in the subfamily Pteridoideae) instead of the less morphologically similar genus Coniogramme.
Cantabria is home to the largest dune field in the Cantabrian Sea, the Liencres Dunes, declared a natural park by Decree 101/1986 of December 9, 1986, the main natural element that determined the creation of the Park being the dune system located on the right bank of the mouth of the Pas river.
At the other extreme, working within algae alone, -eae suffixes class -phyceae, suborder -ineae, family -aceae, subfamily -oideae, and tribe -eae.
The second column gives the family's original type genus, unless that name is no longer accepted in taxonomic databases.
Not all flowers consist of whorls since the parts may instead be spirally arranged, as in the family Magnoliaceae.
This is a list of the flora of South Georgia, an island in the subantarctic Atlantic Ocean, part of the British overseas territory of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
The fungus shapes the ice into fine hairs through an uncertain mechanism and likely stabilizes it by providing a recrystallization inhibitor similar to antifreeze proteins.
As of 2015 there was no specific policy towards NBTs, although in the summer of that year the White House announced plans to update the U.S.
Serotiny is achieved through the mechanism of thick, woody follicles, which are held tightly closed by resin.
Rosa × odorata or Rosa odorata is a hybrid flowering plant of the genus Rosa native to Yunnan in southwest China, whose taxonomy has been confused.
Phlegmariurus (tropical firmosses); about 250 species; previously included in Huperzia; mainly epiphytes.
In this treatment, one of its many synonyms is Quercus × crenata, which may also be treated as a separate species.
Plants which are usually sown Among the major field crops, oats, wheat, and rye are sown, grasses and legumes are seeded and maize and soybeans are planted.
These were in place by 2015 and gave clarity to plant developers at an early stage so they could anticipate whether or not their products were likely to be regarded as GMOs.
If the branchage has not been completed the occupier will be required to undertake the work and, if it is not carried out, the parish may arrange for the work to be done and charge the occupier the cost of that work.
This type of material harbors an acidophilic flora very characteristic of the high mountains of the Cantabrian Mountains, and in general, dominant in the region.
Both wounding of the plant as well as signaling molecules result in the formation of jasmonic acid, which then induces the gene expression of proteinase inhibitors.
Description It is an evergreen or drought-deciduous succulent shrub (which can also lose its leaves during cold spells, or according to the subspecies or cultivar).
Elaiophores can be present on the axial part of the sepals or corollas, on the surface of the lip, at the base of stamens (as in Lysimachia vulgaris) and also on the callus.
A commercially available vitamin hormone concentrate may be used to avoid transplant shock which may contain thiamine hydrochloride, 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid and indole butyric acid.
The name is derived from the surname of German horticulturist Georg Arends who was responsible for nearly all hybrid cultivars sold in North America.
In the glossary of Flora of the Sydney Region, Roger Charles Carolin defines "herb" as a "plant that does not produce a woody stem", and the adjective "herbaceous" as meaning "herb-like, referring to parts of the plant that are green and soft in texture".
Previously identified as Pleuromeia, it can be distinguished by its monoecious habits, singular leaf base scar (as opposed to the two scars found on each leaf base in Pleuromeia) and either unlobed or lightly lobed rhizophore.
Thus overly frequent fires prevent the recruitment of new adults, and populations decline at the rate that adults die.
A hand seeder can be used for sowing, though it is less of a help than it is for the smaller seeds of grasses and legumes.
Since ferns, unlike flowering plants, bear spores on the leaf blade itself, this may affect the form of the frond itself.
The ongoing decline of animal populations has reduced the capacity of plants across the globe to disperse their seeds by an estimated 60%, severely limiting their ability to shift ranges in response to climate change.
The longer suffixes themselves suffixed with -eae must first be eliminated before recognizing an unfamiliar -eae designation as belonging to rank tribe.
In a 2012 classification of the family it was one of only two subfamilies and contained most of the genera, whereas in a 2021 classification it has only five genera.
In the fourth century BC, Alexander the Great introduced this "Persian nut" (Theophrastus' καρυα ή Περσική) in Macedonian, Ancient Greek ancestral forms with lateral fruiting from Iran and Central Asia.
It consists of 21 separate collections of wood block samples, including 17 international collections, and a glass slide collection of timber microstructure sections.
The presence of hairs on leaves, which may be coloured differently from the leaf itself, can also produce variable coloration.
In botany, an umbel is an inflorescence that consists of a number of short flower stalks (called pedicels) that spread from a common point, somewhat like umbrella ribs.
Withania somnifera (ashwagandha) is promoted within ayurveda for numerous claimed benefits which medical science has been unable to confirm.
Some lilies, such as the tiger lily Lilium lancifolium, form small bulbs, called bulbils, in their leaf axils.
Cold deciduous plant species focus on conserving its nutrient to survive through the extreme conditions in winter.
This ability of these plants to store seeds long-term is one of the main adaptation methods they have developed particularly against recurrent fires.
In certain contexts in ecology, guild membership may often be more important than the taxonomic relationships between organisms.
Succession can be interrupted at any time by disturbance, setting the system back to a previous state or off on another trajectory altogether.
Its purported medicinal effect is distinguished from bái zhú (白术 or 白朮, white atractylodes rhizome from Atractylodes macrocephala), which is typically cultivated, whereas cāng zhú more often tends to be collected from the wild.
The titan arum (Amorphophallus titanum) uses thermogenically created water vapor to disperse its scent—that of rotting meat—above the cold air that settles over it at night in its natural habitat.
The following diagram shows a likely phylogenic relationship between the three Cryptogrammoideae genera and the other Pteridaceae subfamilies.
These type I KNOX STM genes also play important roles in the development of the growing tip of the plant, the shoot apical meristem, by controlling cell division and prolonging indeterminate growth.
Scientific names for the vascular plants group include Tracheophyta, Tracheobionta and Equisetopsida sensu lato.
The Ministry of Supply issued monthly bulletins for rural herb committees that provided information for collecting herbs in different areas.
On the seeds of grasses such as barley or rye, they form foxtails which assist seed dispersal by being barbed and so sticking to passing animals.
Whether a plant should be given a particular infraspecific name can then be decided by comparing it to the type.
This was at a time when many women loved accessories decorated with flowers (flower holders, fans, perfume dispensers such as perfume [14]) and floral wall hangings, wallpaper, textiles and jewels were fashionable.
Evolutionary advantage: Succulents Cuttings are used as a method of asexual reproduction in succulent horticulture, commonly referred to as vegetative reproduction.
When the end of an idioblast is broken the crystals or other substance is ejected by internal water pressure.
Some specimens may be types, some may be specimens distributed in published series called exsiccatae.
Poricidal dehiscence occurs in many unrelated organisms, in fruit, causing the release of seeds, and also in the sporangia of many organisms (flowering plants, ferns, fungi, slime molds).
The C16 and C18 omega hydroxy acids 16-hydroxy palmitic acid and 18-hydroxy stearic acid are key monomers of cutin in the plant cuticle.
In fact, the whisk ferns and ophioglossoid ferns are demonstrably a clade, and the horsetails and Marattiaceae are arguably another clade.
In nature, plant densities can be especially high when seeds present in a seed bank germinate after winter, or in a forest understory after a tree fall opens a gap in the canopy.
bradleyi is easily outcompeted by other plants in more fertile habitats, it is well adapted to the thin, acidic soil and harsh environment of its native cliffs, where it finds few competitors.
By forming a multicellular haploid gametophyte rather than limiting the haploid stage to gametes, there is often only one allele for any genetic trait.
Once the flowering period is over, the plant enters a foliage period of about six weeks during which time the plant absorbs nutrients from the soil and energy from the sun for setting flowers for the next year.
Production of F1 hybrids In plants Crossing two genetically different plants produces a hybrid seed.
London, Boston and Canberra: Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew; Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries; and the Australian National Botanic Gardens.
Xenia (also known as the xenia effect) in plants is the effect of pollen on seeds and fruit of the fertilized plant.
He states that the Parthians sprinkle the leaves of it in their drink, that its smell closely resembles that of the cedar, and that the smoke of it is efficacious in counteracting the effects of smoke emitted by other wood.
It was finally carried through in 1923 in neutral Switzerland, and as noted by John William Harshberger is his report in Ecology, the participants from Germany, France and other nations recently at war, coexisted peacefully.
In informal classification In addition to its use in ecology, the term "forb" may be used for subdividing popular guides to wildflowers, distinguishing them from other categories such as grasses, sedges, shrubs, and trees.
The life cycle of a typical fern proceeds as follows: A diploid sporophyte phase produces haploid spores by meiosis (a process of cell division which reduces the number of chromosomes by a half).
For seeds, it happens after ripening and dispersal; for vegetative parts, it happens after detachment or pruning; for asexually-reproducing plants, such as strawberry, it happens as the new plant develops from existing parts.
Studies indicate that the present population of Bradley's spleenwort arose from several independent doublings of sterile diploid hybrids.
There is also a provision for compulsory licensing to assure public access to protected varieties if the national interest requires it and the breeder is unable to meet the demand.
However, in plants that are not resistant to oomycete infection, the nucleus does not move to the site of oomycete contact, and the oomycete proceeds to devastate the plant, indicating the importance of nuclear transport for resistance against oomycete pathogens.
The Loi (1914) sur la Voirie imposes a duty on all occupiers of property to ensure that encroachments are removed from the public highway.
These changes have the potential to lead to the asynchrony between species, or to change competition between plants.
Examples of plants that extend through stolons include some species from the genera Riccia, Argentina (silverweed), Cynodon, Fragaria, and Pilosella (Hawkweeds), Zoysia japonica, Ranunculus repens.
Feces-trapping symbiosis Mature plants of Nepenthes lowii attract tree shrews (Tupaia montana), which feed on nectar that the plant produces but also defecate into the pitcher, providing nitrates and other nutrients.
In gymnosperms, the megagametophyte consists of around 2000 nuclei and forms archegonia, which produce egg cells for fertilization.
It is the official tree in Tainan, Taiwan; Xiamen, Fujian Province, and Shantou, Guangdong Province, People's Republic of China.
The validity of this group as a whole has been considered questionable by other authors, who consider that it is unlikely to be monophyletic.
For example, chili plants selectively deter mammal seed predators and fungi using capsaicin, which does not deter bird seed dispersers because bird taste receptors do not bind with capsaicin.
Species Currently accepted species include: Farmeria indica Willis Farmeria metzgerioides (Trimen) Willis ex Hook.f.
Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) microsome ω-hydroxylases such as CYP4A11, CYP4A22, CYP4F2, and CYP4F3 in humans, Cyp4a10 and Cyp4a12 in mice, and Cyp4a1, Cyp4a2, Cyp4a3, and Cyp4a8 in rats metabolize arachidonic acid and many arachidonic acid metabolites to their corresponding omega hydroxyl products.
Notes and references Notes References Works cited External links Data related to Asplenium tutwilerae at Wikispecies Isotype specimen of the species
The most basic crop coefficient, Kc, is simply the ratio of ET observed for the crop studied over that observed for the well calibrated reference crop under the same conditions.
A 400-year-old balete tree in Barangay Campalanas in the Lazi, Siquijor is believed to be the oldest and the biggest in the province.
The two symbols became hugely popular among the local people during the Battle of Nancy in 1477, during which the Lorrain army defeated Burgundy.
In some species, the awns can contribute significantly to photosynthesis, as, for example, in barley.
In Lespedeza cuneata the leaf opening factor, potassium lespedezate, is hydrolyzed to 4 hydroxy phenyl pyruvic acid.
Description In the spring, Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi infects the young shoots and leaves of blueberry plants, causing them to die.
The three carpels are at a constant under (syncarp) ovary adherent which has a soft-spiky surface and many central-angle-constant ovules.
Kc then becomes a function or series of values specific to the crop of interest through its growing season.
His three empirical rules stressed periodic initiation in the least-crowded zone, radial displacement after initiation, and a gradual slowing of that displacement as the shoot enlarges.
The first is to avoid damaging mutations caused by UV radiation, as the nucleus stores the genetic material of a cell.
If one or several moderate-sized bulbs form to replace the original bulb, they are called renewal bulbs.
Different areas will be at various developmental stages due to other local histories, particularly their times since the last significant disturbance.
The relationship between some of these extinct groups and the extant ones was investigated by Kenrick and Crane in 1997.
Mangos and cashews come from the same plant family as poison ivy, and can sometimes trigger allergic reactions.
It has been shown to accumulate anti-microbial peptides that prevent the bacteria and fungus from entering the cell.
Every five years, a bottle from every species was retrieved and germinated on a tray of sterilized soil which was kept in a growth chamber.
German Network for Bioinformatics Infrastructure The PGP repository is a part of the service portfolio of the German Crop BioGreenformatics Network (GCBN) node of the German Network for Bioinformatics Infrastructure.
Manual of woody landscape plants: Their identification, ornamental characteristics, culture, propagation and uses.
They use specific cues like plant chemistry (volatile compounds), color, and size to locate seeds, and their short life cycles often match the production of seeds by the host plant.
Pinnation (also called pennation) is the arrangement of feather-like or multi-divided features arising from both sides of a common axis.
Cultivation In cultivation in the United Kingdom this plant has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
bulbifera Costus spiral Cynorkis uncata Cystopteris bulbifera Cyperus alternifolius Cyperus dentatus Dentaria bulbifera Dodecatheon hendersonii A.
Even in agricultural crops, where ideal conditions are approximated as much as is practical, plants are not always growing (and therefore transpiring) at their theoretical potential.
Some plants, such as Myrmecodia, grow large bulbous structures riddled with channels in which their ants may establish themselves, both for mutual protection and for the nutritive benefit of the ants' wastes.
villosus) has been used by other authors in a different sense, for Cistus creticus (at least in part).
Since the first printing of Carl Linnaeus's Species Plantarum in 1753, plants have been assigned one epithet or name for their species and one name for their genus, a grouping of related species.
The leaf blade is egg-shaped or round, 5 to 15 centimetres (2.0 to 5.9 in) long and 3.5 to 14 centimetres (1.4 to 5.5 in) wide.
Kiwifruit was named for its resemblance to the brown body of the kiwi, a national symbol of New Zealand.
The FMN is noncovalently bound to a LOV domain in the dark, but becomes covalently linked upon exposure to suitable light.
LeafSen has made strides incorporating their leaf sensory technology into citrus orchards in Israel.
They attach to rocks using holdfasts, and their flowers are protected by boat-shaped spathella until they emerge.
In addition, if it is discovered that the person who applied for protection of the variety is not the actual breeder, the rights are nullified unless they can be transferred to the proper person.
Still others, such as Osmunda cinnamomea (Cinnamon fern), or plants of the family Onocleaceae, have fertile fronds that are completely different from the sterile.
Statistical analysis: Statistical methods are used to analyse the data, compare the means, and determine the seed bank of estimates of plants.
thaliana continues to be the subject of intense study using new technologies such as high-throughput sequencing.
Some scientists that had worked on the military application of atomic energy in the past invested in or sponsored programs dedicated to bringing more peaceful applications of atomic energy to the public domain, and this included atomic gardening.
In most seeds, for example the sunflower, the plumule is a small conical structure without any leaf structure.
Farmeria is a genus of flowering plants in the riverweed family Podostemaceae, native to Sri Lanka and India.
The arrangement of the inflorescence in umbels is referred to as umbellate, or occasionally subumbellate (almost umbellate).
They assumed primordia are equal in size and showed that several can arise simultaneously, providing a straightforward explanation for true whorls; once a few primordia are established the pattern stabilises into a regular phyllotactic fraction.
Its habitat is declining, primarily due to logging and wood harvesting activities that lead to ecosystem degradation.
Like all carnivorous plants, pitcher plants all grow in locations where the soil is too poor in minerals and/or too acidic for most plants to survive.
Causes A tree's characteristic shape, or habit, is in part the product of auxins, hormones which control the growth of secondary apices.
It has been considered a hybrid of Rosa gigantea and Rosa chinensis, or as a quite rare wild species that includes R.
Herbaceous perennial and biennial plants may have stems that die at the end of the growing season, but parts of the plant survive under or close to the ground from season to season (for biennials, until the next growing season, when they grow and flower again, then die).
Names below the rank of species of animals and of cultivated plants are regulated by different codes of nomenclature and are formed somewhat differently.
Xerochasy is dehiscence that occurs upon drying, and hygrochasy is dehiscence that occurs upon wetting, the fruit being hygroscopic.
Around March and April, the plants start to grow white flowers that develop into small, green berries.
They differ from seed plants (gymnosperms and angiosperms) in reproducing by means of spores and lacking flowers and seeds.
dicarpel or tricarpel), and therefore the ovary can contain part of one carpel or parts of several fused carpels.
See See https://www.kew.org/science/collections-and-resources/data-and-digital/terms-of-use for license.
Discovery This species was first noticed to be distinct in 2018 by Gus Benk, who had found it among other Phalaenopsis species, such as Phalaenopsis cornu-cervi, Phalaenopsis javanica and Phalaenopsis fimbriata.
The quarterly newsletter of the British Friends of Vanuatu Society is named Nabanga, after the local word for banyan.
In Brazil, fungal species Pseudocercospora ixoricola was found to be causing leaf spots on Ixora coccinea.
Fruit-growth effects The vigour of the seeds forming inside a fruit can affect the growth of the fruit itself.
In many instances, warm stratification followed by cold stratification requirements can also be met by planting the seeds in summer in a mulched bed for expected germination the following spring.
Bears fruit between four and eight years, making a tree of some 10 to 20 ft (3.0 to 6.1 m) in height and spread.
The Pomo and Yuki tribes of Mendocino County treated headaches by placing a single leaf in the nostril or bathing the head with a laurel leaf infusion.
Elaiophores occur in the flowers of some families, such as Malpighiaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Iridaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Primulaceae and Solanaceae.
References External links Media related to Selenicereus setaceus at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Selenicereus setaceus at Wikispecies
Nevertheless, they are unable to accumulate red or blue pigments, for example Dahlia ´Seattle´ petals showing a white tip.
There is also the potential for secondary infection, which can occur every five days during ideal conditions (Goldberg, 2000).
Semi-hardwood cuttings come from stems that have completed elongation growth and have mature leaves.
Genus Rhododendron consists of eight subgenera based on morphology; this page refers to only those lower divisions in subgenus Rhododendron, commonly known as the scaly or lepidote rhododendrons.
The best known species is the common whitebeam (Aria edulis), a columnar tree which grows to 25 m (82 ft) tall by 10 m (33 ft) broad, with clusters of white flowers in spring followed by speckled red berries in autumn (fall).
For example, since 1 hour is 3 twenty-minute intervals, the population in one hour is S ( 3 ) = S 0 2 3 {\displaystyle S(3)=S_{0}2^{3}} .
For highly resistant plants, allocating resources to tolerance would not be selectively favored as the plant received minimal damage in the first place.
Ecosystems that are situated outside require study and analysis of the natural variables of their particular area, combined with a study of the behaviour of the numerous plant species in the biotope in each location.
Meyen in 1984 to encompass Ginkgoales (which contains the living Ginkgo) alongside a number of extinct seed plant groups, which he considered to be closely related based on similarities of morphology of pollen, seeds, cuticles, short shoots and leaves.
Also among others, some superstitious folks suggest not bringing in balete as decorative plants inside a house as they allegedly invite ghosts.
Buddhist scriptural references In Buddhism's Pali Canon, there is a discourse entitled, "The Simsapa Grove" (Samyutta Nikaya 56.31).
Six euasterid orders have more than two families: Apiales, Aquifoliales, Asterales, Gentianales, Lamiales and Solanales.
The specimens may be whole plants or plant parts; these will usually be in dried form mounted on a sheet of paper (called exsiccatum, plur.
Most plant species that survive and significantly expand by vegetative reproduction would be perennial almost by definition, since specialized organs of vegetative reproduction, like seeds of annuals, serve to survive seasonally harsh conditions.
The flora of the Chatham Islands consists of around 388 terrestrial plant species, of which 47 are endemic.
The participants were: The Third International Phytogeographic Excursion was proposed in 1915, but postponed due to the First World War.
seed dispersal Adaptations to defend seeds against predation can impact seeds' ability to germinate and disperse.
Bradyspory is the gradual release of seed from a cone or fruit over a long period of time, as opposed to tachyspory, the more-or-less immediate release of seed as soon as they have matured.
The hybrid is named for the American dendrologist George Ware, former Research Director at the Morton Arboretum in Illinois.
This tree grows in the countries that lie beyond the Pasitigris, in the territory of the city of Sittaca, upon Mount Zagrus.
Bamboo species can be divided into two groups: sympodial (clumping) and monopodial (running) species.
In monocot plants, the first shoot that emerges from the ground or from the seed is the epicotyl, from which the first shoots and leaves emerge.
References External links official repository website official e!DAL website official website of the Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research (IPK)
Since the first edition of Carl Linnaeus's Species Plantarum in 1753, plants have been assigned one epithet or name for their species and one name for their genus, a grouping of related species.
Even before Linnaeus, botanists such as Joseph Pitton de Tournefort, Charles Plumier and Pier Antonio Micheli were naming plants after people, sometimes in gratitude for the financial support of their patrons.
Hence it is, that they import from the country of the Elymæi the wood of a tree called bratus, which is similar in appearance to a spreading cypress.
Nyatoh is a trade-name for wood of a number of hardwood species of the genera Palaquium and Payena growing in rainforest environments in southeast Asia, especially in Indonesia and the Philippines.
In addition, with many more difficult cuttings, one should use the type of cutting that has the most chance of success with that particular plant species.
Parent page: Flora of Canada This is a listing of the non-vascular plants of Canada, and includes the mosses, liverworts and hornworts.
The latent buds might be visible on the bark of the tree, or submerged under the bark as epicormic buds.
scorpion senna) pollen is released repeatedly when the keel tip is moved by an insect so as to release pollen through a hole in the tip.
Description Helianthus × laetiflorus is a herbaceous plant with alternate, simple leaves, on green stems.
The metaxylem is thus on both the peripheral and central sides of the strand, with the protoxylem between the metaxylem (possibly surrounded by it).
The discovery of tannosomes showed how to get enough tannins to change the flavour of wine, tea, chocolate, and other food or snacks.
In horticulture or agriculture, it is especially used to describe the stalk or woody stems of bamboo, cane or grain grasses.
Both experimental groups revealed increased proteinase inhibitor production as a result of exposure to volatile methyl jasmonate in comparison to control groups.
The production of plasmodiocarps can be generic, or can be also caused by the deranged development of sporocarps or aethalia.
Solanales species usually have sepals that continue to grow with age, even when the plant is fruiting.
Natural layering typically occurs when a branch touches the ground, whereupon it produces adventitious roots.
It is estimated to be about more than 600 years old and 60 metres (200 ft) tall with its roots about 10 metres (33 ft) to 15 metres (49 ft) in diameter.
Botanical examples Alstroemeriaceae Plants in the genus Alstroemeria have more or less resupinate leaves.
The small order Berberidopsidales (just four species) may be the earliest-diverging superasterid order.
Intraspecific hybridization is the mating process within the species, often between genetically distinct lineages.
It is not precise in the absolute sense but is meant to be useful when comparing one cultivar to another, relatively.
Summary Part self-help and part spiritual, Worton's If Trees Could Talk is a guide to taking time out to connect with nature, talk to trees, and to live a happier and more fulfilled life.
While fire is not an effective way to kill kudzu, equipment, such as a skid loader, can later remove crowns and kill kudzu with minimal disturbance or erosion of soil.
Taxonomy It has been confused with Phalaenopsis philippinensis, from which it differs in regard to the morphology of the callus of the labellum.
Advantages Homogeneity and predictability: The genes of an individual plant or animal F1 offspring of homozygous pure lines display limited variation, making their phenotype uniform, so attractive for mechanical operations and easing fine population management.
It is somewhat uncommon, and has been reported mostly at latitudes between 45 and 55 °N in broadleaf forests.
Flowering umbels are borne on peduncles, which are equal to or longer than the rays of the umbel, and subtended at the base by an involucre of 1 to 3 bracts.
When red light is present, PHYB is converted to its active form and moves from the cytoplasm to the nucleus where it upregulates the degradation of PIF1.
For example, in canopy seed banks or aerial seed banks, the seeds are stored in the canopies of trees and plants.
This encyclopedia is not a substitute for medical advice nor a complete description of these herbs, their dangers (up to and including death), and their (in)compatibility with alcohol or other drugs.
Vertical ecosystems aim to prolong the life of planted species and bring the benefits of a traditional vertical garden, including: absorption of CO2, heavy metals and dust, natural thermal insulation, and reduction of noise pollution.
For example, some secondary metabolites are toxins used to deter predation, and others are pheromones used to attract insects for pollination.
They generally provide bottom heat (maintained at a particular temperature) and high humidity, which is essential in successful seed germination and in helping cuttings to take root.
Simon Schwendener (1878) imagined young primordia as elastic spheres that naturally settle into hexagonal close packing, with small positional shifts giving rise to new spiral families (parastichies, the visible spiral lines you can trace through leaf positions) as the dome grows.
However, these plants have fully developed seeds contained in fruits, rather than the microscopic spores of ferns.
It has been recorded blooming between March and April and December, producing a blue two centimetre flower with three petals.
Confusion exists among this name and two later names published by Linnaeus, Cistus creticus in 1762 and Cistus villosus in 1764.
Another method to increase crop yield is to use lines that are tolerant to herbivory and can compensate or even overcompensate for the damage inflicted (Nunez-Farfan et al.
Most commonly grown in greenhouses, these parthenocarpic cucumbers are often found in grocery markets, shrink-wrapped in plastic.
Eucalyptus trees are the tallest known flowering plants, up to 100 m (330 ft) or more; they are grown for timber and for their oils, used in candy, perfumes and cough medicine.
It has been reported from hosts in the genera Achillea, Anthemis, Argyranthemum, Chrysanthemum, Coleostephus, Cota, Glebionis, Leucanthemum, Matricaria, and Tripleurospermum.
In Agathis, the seeds are winged and separate readily from the seed scale, but in the other two genera, the seed is wingless and fused to the scale.
Some orchids, such as species of Phalaenopsis, are described in some sources (including the authoritative Plants of the World Online) as "herbs" but with "leaves persistent or sometimes deciduous".
The Tree Register of the British Isles−TROBI Champion is at Phear Park in Exmouth, measuring 26 metres (85 ft) in height, with a trunk diameter of 261 centimetres (103 in) in 2008.
The polymer cutin is formed by interesterification of omega hydroxy acids and derivatives of them that are substituted in mid-chain, such as 10,16-dihydroxy palmitic acid.
aquatic plant A plant whose natural habitat is water, living in or on water for all or a substantial part of its lifespan; generally restricted to fresh or inland waters.
lancea included atractylochromene, a potent inhibitor of 5-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase; 2-[(2E)-3,7-dimethyl-2,6-octadienyl]-6-methyl-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione, a selective inhibitor of lipoxygenase ; atractylon and osthol, weak inhibitors of lipoxygenase, and atractylenolides I, II, and III.
The apoplast provides a low-resistance pathway for water to move from roots to leaves, complementing the symplastic route.
Normal values Generally, construction costs of leaves are in the order of 1.3 – 1.7 g g−1, with slightly lower values for stems and roots.
Herb-induced liver injury (HILI) is a form of drug-induced liver injury caused by herbal medicines, typically herbal supplements or herb-based ethnomedicines.
Most grasses have ligules, and the shape, length, and appearance of the ligule margin provide consistent characters for separating genera and some species of grasses.
These torus-margo structures have an impermeable disc (torus) suspended by a permeable membrane (margo) between two adjacent pores.
Distinct petals and sepals would therefore have arisen by differentiation, probably in response to animal pollination.
Traditionally, the flowering plants are divided into two groups, Dicotyledoneae or Magnoliopsida Monocotyledoneae or Liliopsida to which the Cronquist system ascribes the classes Magnoliopsida (from "Magnoliaceae") and Liliopsida (from "Liliaceae").
Orchid flowers that undergo this twist are called "resupinate" – those that do not are "non-resupinate".
Dog roses, the Caninae section of the genus Rosa, have around 20–30 species and subspecies, which appear in a variety of shapes and occur mostly in northern and central Europe.
Compare obovoid ovule Loosely, the seed before fertilization; a structure in a seed plant within which one or more megaspores are formed (after fertilization it develops into a seed).
In plant biology, the hyponastic response is a nastic movement characterized by an upward bending of leaves or other plant parts, resulting from accelerated growth of the lower side of the petiole in comparison to its upper part.
The hypanthium (fruit body) contains carotenoids (β-carotene, lycopene, lutein) and phenolics (quercetin, catechin, gallic acid), which together explain much of the fruit’s antioxidant activity.
It is especially difficult to see the expression of rye genes in the background of wheat cytoplasm and the predominant wheat nuclear genome.
In Sri Lanka it is known in Sinhala as the Maara tree, although for a short while it was known as the Lamaasuriya tree after Le Mesurier, the British civil servant who was responsible for introducing it as a shade tree.
Physiological mechanism Although preliminary experiments have shown a wide range of effects due to the magnetic field, the mechanism has not yet been elucidated.
That is: highest construction costs are for highly reduced compounds like lipids and lignin, lowest for highly oxidized organic compounds such as organic acids, and for the minerals.
Notable characteristics are the dark stem, whose color extends well up the axis of the leaf blade, a deeply cut acroscopic lobe or pinnule at the base of each pinna, and toothed pinna edges.
These gamma gardens have continued to operate on largely the same designs as those conceived in the 1950s.
When Louis condemned his finance minister, Nicolas Fouquet, in 1664, part of the treasures that he confiscated were over 1,000 orange trees from Fouquet's estate at Vaux-le-Vicomte.
The fibre saturation point is the moisture level at which further drying has limited effect on mechanical properties.
Description The plants do not have upright canes like some other Rubus species, but have stems that trail along the ground, putting forth new roots along the length of the stem.
Genera See also List of plant genus names with etymologies: A–C, D–K, L–P, Q–Z List of plant family names with etymologies Notes Citations References Bayton, Ross (2020).
sitchensis) Picea × notha Rehder (Picea glehnii × Picea jezoensis) Cultivated hybrids The following cultivated origin hybrids have been named; many others have been reported without being named: Picea × mariorika Boom (P.
The Forest Stewardship Council has certified the Pacific Albus plantation as meeting FSC environmental and social goals.
Umbels are a characteristic of plants such as carrot, parsley, dill, and fennel in the family Apiaceae; ivy, Aralia and Fatsia in the family Araliaceae; and onion (Allium) in the family Alliaceae.
Descending from China and south east Asia, the earliest orange species moved westwards via the trade routes.
A rooting hormone may be administered to "encourage" growth and can increase the success rate of plant growth.
It is a plant metabolite found in species such as Hypericum laricifolium, Artemisia sacrorum, and Zeyheria montana.
Excluded from this list are genus names not accepted (as of January 2021) at Plants of the World Online, which includes updates to Plants of the World (2017).
Canker disease of spruce is caused by the ascomycete fungal pathogen Leucostoma kunzei (also called Cytospora and Valsa).
In botany, a bulb is a short underground stem with fleshy leaves or leaf bases that function as food storage organs during dormancy.
See also Calulu Caruru Laulau, similar native dishes from Polynesia List of Jamaican dishes List of stews Trinidad and Tobago cuisine References Davidson, Alan.
After a year or two, the widely dispersed seed starts the germination process and regeneration of species affected in the disturbed areas.These plant species are often found in fire-prone environments such as Proteaceae species in Australiadioecious species in South Africaand Pine species in the US.
Traits common to most commelinids include partially fluorescent cell walls, starchy seeds and an extra layer of epidermal wax.
Depending on the number of locules in the ovary, fruits can be classified as unilocular (uni-locular), bilocular, trilocular, or multilocular.
Because gymnosperms do not have an ovary but reproduce through fertilization of unprotected ovules, they produce naked seeds that do not have a surrounding fruit.
Chris; Stevenson, Dennis W.; Zomlefer, Wendy B.; Briggs, Barbara G.; Duvall, Melvin R.; Moore, Michael J.; Heaney, J.
The first two of them were lignified and had pores to facilitate the transportation of water between cells.
The twig's age and rate of growth can be determined by counting the winter terminal bud scale scars, or annular ring marking, across the diameter of the twig.
However, instruments have since been developed specifically for tetrad dissection; the most advanced allow easy and semi-automated separation of tetrads.
certain tropical fruit), prior treatment of the soil (along with the usage of the most suitable soil; e.g.
Lithuanian Plants Genes Bank (Lithuanian: Augalų genų bankas, AGB) is plant gene resource guardian and sustainable use organization governed by Lithuania's Ministry of Environment.
They are the complex result of decades of hybridizing for specific species traits, such as flowers and cold-hardiness.
Air conditioners are one effective tool for removing moisture and heat from otherwise humid warm air.
Cold stratification simulates the natural process by subjecting seed to a cool (ideally +1 to +3 °C [34 to 37 degrees Fahrenheit]) moist environment for a period one to three months.
rubrolineatum Rhododendron trichocladum Rhododendron viridescens subsection Triflora Rhododendron ambiguum Rhododendron augustinii Rhododendron augustinii ssp.
Cotyledons may remain belowground or be pushed up aboveground with the growing stem depending on the plant species in question.
They are all perennial, herbaceous plants with flowers in various shades from white to purplish red.
For them to be effective, air conditioners must recirculate the existing indoor air and not be exposed to warm, humid outside air.
When a horizontal stem (plagiotropic shoot) also exhibits anisophylly, the photosynthetic leaf surfaces interfere less with light from above, and rotation of the leaf or the petiole can enhance that effect.
Distribution and diversity Approximately 1,300 species of resurrection plants have been identified, spanning mosses, ferns, and angiosperms.
In planting, wider rows (generally 75 cm (30 in) or more) are used, and the intent is to have precise; even spacing between individual seeds in the row, various mechanisms have been devised to count out individual seeds at exact intervals.
Plum blossoms, apple blossoms, orange blossoms, some cherry blossoms, and most almond blossoms are white in colour.
There is an ongoing decline in plant biodiversity, just like there is ongoing biodiversity loss for many other life forms.
The tree has been identified as either Dalbergia sissoo, a rosewood tree common to India and Southeast Asia, or Amherstia nobilis, another South Asian tree, of the family Caesalpiniaceae.
The term prothallus was first used by German botanist Georg Meyer in 1825, who introduced it in a discussion of lichen growth.
The 'Long' cultivar is marketed under the trade designation Regal Prince, and the 'Nadler' cultivar under the trade designation Kindred Spirit.
Jamaicans tend to steam callaloo leaf with garlic, carrots, local powdered seasoning, tomatoes, salt, Scotch bonnet peppers, onions, scallions, thyme, sweet pepper, pimento, with or without salt fish or other meats and even in rice or their famous patty pastries.
is a synonym of Hymenocallis Liriopsis Spach is a synonym of Magnolia (There is also an isopod genus Liriopsis.)
Campsis × tagliabuana (Madame Galen) is a mid-19th-century hybrid between Campsis radicans (American trumpet vine) and Campsis grandiflora (Chinese trumpet vine).
& Guillon Etymology The botanical name is derived from the common names 'dog rose' or similar in several European languages, including classical Latin and ancient (Hellenistic period) Greek.
This is an important role where water supply is not constant, and indeed stomata appear to have evolved before tracheids, being present in the non-vascular hornworts.
The authors also looked at how NO and GA effects the vacuolation process of aleurone cells that allow the movement of nutrients to be digested.
The haploid spores fall from the sporophyte and germinate by mitosis, given the right conditions, into the gametophyte stage, the prothallus.
It is used both to describe the loss of a leaves as a natural part of a plant's life cycle (such as in the case of deciduous trees which lose their leaves in the autumn) or because of some trauma or outside cause (such as dehydration, an infestation of caterpillars or hurricane-force winds).
MM106 is very suitable for use with weaker varieties that would produce undersized bushes with more dwarfing rootstocks.
coriandricola, Incitant of Bacterial Umbel Blight and Seed Decay of Coriander (Coriandrum sativum L.) in Germany".
Qualities affected in the endosperm of sorghum may include starchiness, sweetness, waxiness, or other aspects.
In herbalism the crab apple was used as treatment for boils, abscesses, splinters, wounds, coughs, colds and a host of other ailments ranging from acne to kidney ailments.
A structure extending above the ovary and incorporating the style and stamens also known as the gynostegium, e.g.
All bulbils produced by bulbous plants are to be considered bulbs, but not all bulbils are to be considered bulbs.
"An update of the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group classification for the orders and families of flowering plants: APG III".
The former family Stangeriaceae (which contained Bowenia and Stangeria) has been shown to be nested within Zamiaceae by phylogenetic analysis.
Now, Mahāmati, the food I have permitted [my disciples to take] is gratifying to all wise people but is avoided by the unwise; it is productive of many merits, it keeps away many evils; and it has been prescribed by the ancient Rishis.
The pink "mildew" often found on plastic shower curtains and bathroom tile is a red yeast, Rhodotorula.
Papilionaceous flowers (from Latin: papilion, a butterfly) are flowers with the characteristic irregular and butterfly-like corolla found in many, though not all, plants of the species-rich subfamily Faboideae of legumes.
Another factor that promotes germination is HFR1 which accumulates in light in some way and forms inactive heterodimers with PIF1.
These effects were substantially increased when polydopamine nanoparticles were used as a sustained release drug carrier.
The Greek name κέδρος kédros gave the Latin word cedrus and was similarly applied to citron and the word citrus is derived from the same root.
Double fertilization of the central cell in the ovule produces the nutritious endosperm tissue that surrounds the developing zygote within the seed.
A seed rate of about 100 kg of seed per hectare (2 bushels per acre) is typical, though rates vary considerably depending on crop species, soil conditions, and farmer's preference.
The Duke's motto was "Qui s'y frotte s'y pique", meaning "who touches it, pricks oneself", with a similar idea to the Scottish motto "Nemo me impune lacessit".
Scientific classification follows a system of rules that standardizes the results, and groups successive categories into a hierarchy.
Photinia × fraseri, known as red tip photinia and Christmas berry, is a nothospecies in the rose family, Rosaceae.
Description The orange tree is a relatively small evergreen, flowering tree, with an average height of 9 to 10 m (30 to 33 ft), although some very old specimens can reach 15 m (49 ft).
In this family, the entire leaf forms the pitcher, as opposed to Nepenthaceae, where the pitcher arises from the terminal portion of the leaf.
The color, texture, and patterning of the twig bark are also important, in addition to the thickness and nature of any pith of the twig.
Nectar spurs are present in many clades across the angiosperms, and are often cited as an example of convergent evolution.
woody hard and lignified; not herbaceous wooly woolly Very densely covered with long, more or less matted or intertwined hairs, resembling a sheep's wool.
That is two full genome sets (one A and one C), hence "2n=38" which means "n=19" (the number of chromosomes in each gamete).
In bacteriology, the form of tribe names is as in botany, e.g., Pseudomonadeae, based on the genus name Pseudomonas.
Increase bulbs are small bulbs that develop either on each of the leaves inside a bulb, or else on the end of small underground stems connected to the original bulb.
It is a woody, clinging, perennial vine that attaches itself to structures and climbs vigorously with aerial roots like those of ivy.
murorum: Hieracium dispansiforme - rare Hieracium distendens Hieracium hjeltii - rare Hieracium lepistoides Hieracium morulum Hieracium patale Hieracium pellucidum - rare Hieracium praetenerum Hieracium subcaesium Hieracium submarginellum Hieracium aggr.
Most of these are herbaceous or climbing plants, and are most often species native to tropical rainforests.
If a plant has favorable traits, it can continue to pass down its advantageous genetic information to its offspring.
Economic impact Since appearing in northern Serbia in 2004, Peronospora radii has become a threat to chamomile cultivation there.
These names would all be reduced to synonymy with Hymenostylium gracillimum by Heribert Köckinger and Jan Kučera in 2011.
Description Bred by Australian gardener from Melbourne, Attila Kapitany, the plant features powdery blue-grey leaves with a lance-shaped tip, making them akin in appearance to the Greek God Poseidon's trident (hence the name).
A leaflet from Kew advised that collectors spread the plants on racks to dry in a coke-heated shed at 90-100 degrees Fahrenheit.
For example, chimpanzees have been observed using twigs to go "fishing" for termites, and elephants have been reported using twigs to scratch parts of their ears and mouths which could not be reached by rubbing against a tree.
The stolons of blue morning glory create a thick mat over ground plants, reducing the light available for those plants.
If the pollen is released through a split that is positioned to the side, towards other anthers, rather than towards the inside or outside of the flower, this is latrorse dehiscence.
Rationale RGR is a concept relevant in cases where the increase in a state variable over time is proportional to the value of that state variable at the beginning of a time period.
Taxonomy and phylogenetics Ipomoea is a large and diverse genus containing between 600–1,000 species, with 820 being recognized by the Catalogue of Life.
Ecology Charles Darwin observed that the fertility of plants with papilionaceous flowers depend to an important extent on visits by bees, and it is accepted that this corolla structure evolved under selective pressure of bee pollinators.
If it receives pollen from a purple-seeded race that has one copy of a dominant allele for purple colour and one copy of the recessive allele for yellow seed, the resulting cob will have some yellow and some purple seeds.
Roots Root growth in environments with high plant density show that there will be fewer roots per plant and but the length and general density of the individual root remain somewhat the same, this is expected to still cause issues for the plant in future growth.
All published datasets may be explored in the PGP data report application or retrieved using the DataCite search web application.
The first ancestor of the zonal group, now known as Pelargonium zonale, was collected in the province of Western Cape in 1689 and was sent to Europe and described by the Dutch botanist Jan Commelijn (1629–1692).
Elsewhere in the Pali Canon, simsapa groves are mentioned in the "Payasi Sutta" (Digha Nikaya 23) and the "Hatthaka Discourse" (Anguttara Nikaya 3.34).
The hairs appear to root at the mouth of wood rays (never on the bark), and their thickness is similar to the diameter of the wood ray channels.
Witch's broom or witches' broom is a deformity in a woody plant, typically a tree, where the natural structure of the plant is changed.
Besides grasses, other families of plants which have awns include Asteraceae such as sunflowers and Geraniaceae such as geraniums.
In 1922, researchers first left the Casparian strip from the root of plants to study its composition.
listed its three genera in Cryptogrammoideae, one of five subfamilies of Pteridaceae, a placement used in PPG I.
They obtained cucumbers and watermelons from the Spanish, and added them to the crops they were already growing, including several varieties of corn and beans, pumpkins, squash, and gourd plants.
It is native to mountainous regions of France, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, Croatia, and Italy (Valle d'Aosta, Lombardia, Trentino-Alto Adige, Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Emilia-Romagna, Toscana).
The alismatid monocots are a group of 15 interrelated families of flowering plants, named for their largest order, Alismatales.
Definitions of "herb" and "herbaceous" The fourth edition of the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary defines "herb" as: "A plant whose stem does not become woody and persistent (as in a tree or shrub) but remains soft and succulent, and dies (completely or down to the root) after flowering"; "A (freq.
In Bhutan it has been observed growing in association with the liverworts Bazzania tridens and Pallavicinia lyellii, ferns of the genus Hymenophyllum, and mosses of the genus Fissidens.
(Herbaria were called "hortus hyemale" or "hiemale" in Latin ('winter garden'), or "hortus siccus" ('dry garden'), and did not take on this name until the 18th century).
This sap is used as arrow poison for hunting large game throughout much of Africa and as a fish toxin.
Cytisus × praecox, the Warminster broom, is an artificial hybrid species of flowering plant in the family Fabaceae.
As a natural environmental factor in the Earth, variations of magnetic field level causes many biological effects, including germination rate, flowering time, photosynthesis, biomass accumulation, activation of cryptochrome, and shoot growth.
They were reportedly introduced into England in the early 14th century, lost, then reintroduced approximately 250 years later.
Helosciadium × longipedunculatum, synonym Apium × longipedunculatum, is a hybrid plant in the umbellifer family (Apiaceae); the result of hybridisation between Helosciadium repens (creeping marshwort) and Helosciadium nodiflorum (fool's water cress).
Taxonomy and history Gymnostomum gracillimum was described by German botanist Christian Gottfried Daniel Nees von Esenbeck and colleagues in 1823 based on a population growing on a slate rock wall near Hüttau in Salzburg, Austria.
In some plants it causes more severe malformations like the absence of disc florets, and indeterminate growth resulting in a branched inflorescence.
Etymologically it "meant the nut of the Roman lands (Gaul and Italy) as distinguished from the native hazel" according to the Oxford English Dictionary.
Philippine folklore In some areas of the country, some people believe that balete trees are dwelling places for supernatural beings (engkanto) like diwata, kapre or tikbalang.
The flowers can be made into a syrup, eaten in salads, candied, or preserved in vinegar, honey or brandy.
Ceratophyllaceae is a cosmopolitan family of flowering plants including one living genus commonly found in ponds, marshes, and quiet streams in tropical and in temperate regions.
Hemiparasitism by the dwarf mistletoes species in genus Arceuthobium are noted to induce witch's broom formation in parasitized branches of pines and cypresses.
This article contains a list of useful plants, meaning a plant that has been or can be co-opted by humans to fulfill a particular need.
Bromeliaceae A few species of bromeliads (Bromeliaceae), such as Brocchinia reducta and Catopsis berteroniana, are known or suspected to be carnivorous.
(1 genus) Order Selaginellales Prantl (1 family, 1 genus) Family Selaginellaceae Willk (1 genus) Class Polypodiopsida Cronquist, Takht.
Cāng zhú (苍术 or 蒼术 or 蒼朮), also known as black atractylodes rhizome or Rhizoma atractylodes, is used as a Chinese herbal medicine.
In the family Lythraceae, Pomegranates were cultivated by Bronze Age cultures, and wild water chestnuts were consumed in large quantities by prehistoric Europeans.
This application of the poison may have been an intentional effect to create a spiritual or heightened experience.
It also affects the nutrition provided by the dish, significantly increasing protein and reducing dietary fibre content.
The APG IV system accepts the phylogeny shown below: The extinct family Montsechiaceae containing the genus Montsechia has also been placed in the order Ceratophyllales.
Resupination is derived from the Latin word resupinus, meaning "bent back with the face upward" or "on the back".
One method counted rings and measured the distance of annual growth, and the other used radiocarbon dating on pieces of wood found in the center of the ring, and measuring their distances from each other and the living bushes.
Normally it grows 5–8 m (16–26 ft) tall, although some individuals, such as in the Argentine provinces of Salta, Jujuy and Tucumán, can grow up to 10 m (33 ft).
The evolution of heterospory and endospory were among the earliest steps in the evolution of seeds of the kind produced by gymnosperms and angiosperms today.
The pendent, 14–18 cm long inflorescence bears 5–10, sequentially opening, 3-3.5 cm wide flowers with a yellow ground colour and redish brown transverse barring.
The epicotyl will expand and form the point of attachment of the shoot apex and leaf primordia or "first true leaves".
Robert Korn's 2008 comparative review argues that any convincing model must also reproduce the small natural variance in successive angles and cope with patterns (for example, the false whorls of Peperomia) that violate the simple largest-gap rule.
Because Canna indica grows quite tall, it should be cultivated at locations with relatively low wind speed to prevent bending over.
A leaf sensor is a phytometric device (measurement of plant physiological processes) that measures water loss or the water deficit stress (WDS) in plants by real-time monitoring the moisture level in plant leaves.
When awns occur in the Geraniaceae, they form the distal (rostral) points of the five carpels, lying parallel in the style above the ovary.
However, they remain unpleasantly stiff even after thorough cooking, and if swallowed whole or in large pieces they may pose a risk of harming the digestive tract or causing choking.
The Vireya subgroup is believed to have developed specialized idioblasts to aid the water metrics within its small leaves to counter the lack of volume.
It may take several forms, but it is commonly some form of translucent membrane or a fringe of hairs.
Examples of trees with exfoliating bark are the paperbark maple and various species of plane (sycamore) and birch.
Historically botanists have used the designation obconic to describe elements of a plant such as the fruit, hypanthium, calyx or pistil base since at least as early as the nineteenth century, and in modern times the term has been generalized to also refer to an entire plant architectural shape.
Names Albizia julibrissin is known by a wide variety of common names, such as Persian silk tree and pink siris.
The species is distinguished by its canoe-shaped, strongly concave leaves and loosely to densely ciliate stem surface – characteristics that had previously led Rudolf M.
The International Phytogeographic Excursions was a series of international meetings in plant geography that significantly contributed to exchange of scientific ideas across national and linguistic barriers and also to the rise of Anglo-American plant ecology.
In living plants, pitted tracheids do not appear in development until the maturation of the metaxylem (following the protoxylem).
P E T = K c ∗ R E T {\displaystyle PET=K_{c}*RET} Potential evapotranspiration (PET), is the evaporation and transpiration that potentially could occur if a field of the crop had an ideal unlimited water supply.
The Latin specific epithet tagliabuana commemorates the 19th-century Italian nurserymen, Alberto Linneo and Carlo Ausonio Tagliabue.
As an effect, they are commonly apomicts (reproducing solely asexually) and many have very restricted ranges.
Among the paintings are what is now called Pelargonium zonale whose precise identification was made by the botanist John Ray.
Primeval redwood forests, coastal mangrove stands, sphagnum bogs, desert soil crusts, roadside weed patches, wheat fields, cultivated gardens and lawns; all are encompassed by the term "vegetation".
Root-like structures called rhizoids may appear on the stolon as well, anchoring the hyphae to the substrate.
Older systems have used either three classes, one for each order, or two classes, recognizing the closer relationship between Isoetales and Selaginellales.
They are sometimes called suckers, although that term is more correctly applied to shoots that arise from below ground, from the roots, and a distance from the trunk.
a plant that grows on another plant, when its seed germinates in a crack or crevice of a host tree or edifice.
The variety of the plants that provide myrmecodomatia, and the ranges of forms of such domatia are considerable.
The participants were, among others: The Fourth International Phytogeographic Excursion was held in Scandinavia in 1925 (July 2 to August 24).
Commelina dianthifolia, infusion of plant used by Keres as a strengthener for weakened tuberculosis patients.
According to Demoly (1996), Linnaeus's Cistus incanus was recognized to be a hybrid as early as 1904.
For example, the marsh mallow has the classification Althaea officinalis, as it was traditionally used as an emollient to soothe ulcers.
Seeds are placed in a medium such as vermiculite, peat, or sand and refrigerated in a plastic bag or sealed container.
Pterocarpus parvifolius is a taxonomic synonym of Pterocarpus macrocarpus that may refer to: Pterocarpus parvifolius (Pierre) Craib Pterocarpus parvifolius Pierre == References ==
They also argue that the new findings in phylogeny can easily be treated at subgeneric and subfamilial levels, so that the names used by non-specialists will remain unaltered.
Birch forests Birch forests develop between 1600 and 2000 meters in the western part of Cantabria, above the distribution limit of other deciduous forests.
Vertical ecosystems enable plant species, fungi, and bacteria to live in an environment of almost unlimited resources, generating interactions favourable to the system.
In plant science, the disease package of a cultivar is the susceptibility/resistance of that cultivar, in vague overall terms.
Suggested plants include Portulaca, Pereskiopsis, and Lycianthes mociniana, a plant now called tlanochtle in the local variety of modern Nahuatl spoken by highland farmers that cultivate it for its fruit.
2009–2010 Catalog of Heritage Seedlings Inc., KCK Farms LLC, Kuenzi Turf and Nursery, Robinson Nursery Inc.
In Lamiales, plants are mostly herbaceous with opposite leaves, and the five-lobed flowers have approximate mirror-image symmetry.
Introduced species tend to be located in the areas of human settlement, such as the former sealing and whaling stations.
The orange dog caterpillar of the giant swallowtail butterfly, Papilio cresphontes, is a pest of citrus plantations in North America, where it eats new foliage and can defoliate young trees.
Cheilanthes vestita is the name of a fern species, which may refer to: Cheilanthes vestita (Spreng.) Sw., combined in 1806, now known as Myriopteris lanosa Cheilanthes vestita Brack., described in 1854, an illegitimate later homonym, now known as Myriopteris gracillima
Tribes and genera The following genera, subdivided into seven tribes are accepted: Annoneae Auth.: Endlicher 1839 Annona L.
The horticultural layering process typically involves wounding the target region to expose the inner stem, called the inner cambium, and optionally applying rooting compounds.
Hoya nicholsoniae is a species of Hoya native to New Guinea, Queensland, Australia, and surrounding areas.
Fossil evidence shows that ferns of the family Hymenophyllaceae have existed since at least the Upper Triassic.
Ginseng may be included in energy drinks or herbal teas in small amounts or sold as a dietary supplement.
Studies in model plant Antirrhinum and Arabidopsis identified that type I KNOX SHOOTMERISTEMLESS (STM) genes play a role in the development of spur-like structures.
When an individual organism increases in size via cell multiplication and remains intact, the process is called "vegetative growth".
Taxonomy Whitebeams are not a natural monophyletic taxonomic grouping; they are representatives of several genera of the Malinae subtribe, all of which were traditionally treated within a broadly circumscribed genus Sorbus s.l.
There is either no frond dimorphism or only mild dimorphism, either open venation or very simple anastomosing.
Common ragwort – Jacobaea vulgaris, and some other plants of the genus Jacobaea (once called cankerweed).
The success of a vertical ecosystem depends on the control of abiotic and biotic factors that limit the growth of plant populations, the control of environmental resistance.
In the first 140–150 million years of vascular plant evolution, tracheids were the only type of conductive cells found in fossils of plant xylem tissues.
Bailey Hortorium at Cornell University Ensembl SoyBase SSWAP SGN Gramene The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) MaizeGDB University of Missouri at St.
During the period after abscission had occurred, reserves of twig nitrogen in drought-deciduous species change accordingly with season or external stress, whereas evergreen species had a constant twig nitrogen level throughout the year.
Bees of the subfamily Ctenoplectrini have specialized oil-collecting structures such as pads or combs on the ventral thorax or on the front and middle legs.
The plants are distinct from those of other members of the Lycopodiaceae in having erect (not creeping) growth; and in their spore-bearing structures being produced in the axils of unmodified leaves, rather than in terminal club-like structures.
The seeds are about 5 millimetres (0.20 in) in size and are dispersed via rain, wind, human activity, gravity, and waterways.
The Bologna physician and botanist, Luca Ghini (1490–1556) reintroduced the study of actual plants as opposed to relying on classical texts, such as Dioscorides, which lacked sufficient accuracy for identification.
In plants such as these, crowded internodes within the leaf whorls alternate with long internodes between the whorls.
Different bacteria prefer different plants and different plant organs depending on the organ's nutritional content, and depending on the bacteria's colonization system which is controlled by the host plant.
rosea has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit; likewise the cultivar 'Summer Chocolate'.
Taxonomy As of August 2025, Plants of the World Online dated the first formal description of the hybrid to 1868 in a work authored by Joseph Karl Maly with the name attributed to Wilhelm Daniel Joseph Koch.
The three diploid species exist in nature, but can easily interbreed because they are closely related.
Although Charles Darwin did not use the term "resupination", he suggested that having the labellum on the lower part of the flower aids pollination by providing a landing place for visiting insects.
Retrieved 16 Nov 2008 from "Access to Insight" at http://www.accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/an/an03/an03.034.than.html.
By means of these scars one can determine the age of any young branch, since each year's growth ends in the formation of a bud, the formation of which produces an additional group of bud scale scars.
Plants Botanically, pinnation is an arrangement of discrete structures (such as leaflets, veins, lobes, branches, or appendages) arising at multiple points along a common axis.
elegans, and the fly Drosophila melanogaster, which were published in 1996, 1998, and 2000, respectively.
Macroflora is a term used for all the plants occurring in a particular area that are large enough to be seen with the naked eye.
Key LG: derived from a Greek word (G), a Latin word (L), another language (–), or a personal name (P) Ba: listed in Ross Bayton's The Gardener's Botanical Bu: listed in Lotte Burkhardt's Index of Eponymic Plant Names CS: listed in both Allen Coombes's The A to Z of Plant Names and William T.
On the Visite du Branchage the connétable, assisted by the members of the Roads Committee, Roads Inspectors and the centeniers, will visit the roads of his parish accompanied by the vingteniers in their respective Vingtaines to ensure that the branchage has been completed.
They can be used as kindling wood, bridging the gap between highly flammable tinder (dry grass and leaves) and firewood.
Split mung beans (mung dal) is by far the most popular in Bangladesh and West Bengal (moog dal, (মুগ ডাল)).
At this level of the root development, the primary xylem of its vascular cylinder is only partly advanced.
Adenium somalense is also native to Africa, inhabiting Tanzania, Kenya, and Somalia, and reaching heights of 5 metres (16 ft), which makes it the largest of these four subspecies.
Nomenclature By convention, the italicised term 'variegata' as the second part of the Latin binomial name, indicates a species found in the wild with variegation (Aloe variegata).
Due to the geomagnetic field, this combination would rotate from south pole to north pole of the Earth and convert the two single photons back to its inactive resting states under aerobic environment.
Panchratna dal (Hindi) ("five jewels") is a mixture of five varieties of dal, which produces a dish with a unique flavour.
Water dropwort – Any plant in the Oenanthe genus, so-called because of the resemblance of some species to dropwort, Filipendula vulgari (see above).
Trunks are structured to resist wind forces, through characteristics such as high strength and stiffness, as well as oscillation damping, which involves taking energy, and therefore damage (by extension), out of the trunk and into the branches and leaves.
Retrieved 16 Nov 2008 from "Access to Insight" (2007) at http://www.accesstoinsight.org/lib/authors/walshe/wheel318.html.
Begonia × tuberhybrida, also known as the Tuberhybrida Group or the Tuberosa Group, are a group of tuberous Begonia cultivars named for the tubers that lie dormant after the plants dies back in the fall or winter, from which the plant regrows in the spring or fall.
In general, light activation of algal photoropins cause major transcriptional changes of target genes, which is not the case in plants.
Using approaches to determine the concentrations of these groups of compounds then enables calculation of plant organs construction costs.
In cooler climates, these crops are grown year-round, while in warmer climates, they are used as winter forage.
Acotyledon is used to refer to seed plants or spermatophytes that lack cotyledons, such as orchids and dodder.
Adenium oleifolium is near threatened in the wild and is the smallest of these subspecies, growing at the tallest to 0.4 metres (1 ft 4 in).
The culms are normally removed in a process known as "deculming" after kilning when producing barley malt, but form an important part of the product when making sorghum or millet malt.
Its importance has been disputed - Copeland for example, considered it taxonomically important, whereas Tryon and Tryon and Kramer all stated that the importance can only be judged in relation to other characteristics.
Few traditional remedies, however, have translated into modern drugs, although there is continuing research into the efficacy and possible adaptation of traditional herbal treatments.
They often have peltate scales, as opposed to the imbricate cones described above, though some have imbricate scales.
See also Frost flower Hoarfrost Needle ice References External links Hair ice photos for WDR 5 Leonardo feature (German) Video footage of Hair Ice with narration
However, several species within the related genera of Palaquium and Payena are on the IUCN Red List due to overexploitation and alarming reductions in their habitats.
They further argue that comparing numbers of species per genus in different groups is "fundamentally meaningless", because there is no limit to numbers of species per genus.
Phloem and xylem are closely associated with one another and are typically located immediately adjacent to each other in the plant.
Samuel Burton Green (29 January 1941 – 9 August 1999) was an openly gay psychiatric nurse and Liberal politician who was elected as a member of Durham City Council in 1972, making him the first openly-gay politician in the UK and first known openly gay candidate in an election in Britain.
Moreover, in a letter to William Montgomerie, Abbot admitted that the idea of risking all on full-time writing scared him.
There are WRAP Facilitators in the United States, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, China, and Ireland trained by the Copeland Center or Advanced Level WRAP Facilitators trained by the Copeland Center.
Compared to private clinics, the fees for specialist outpatient services of the Hospital Authority are lower, but the waiting time can be as long as two years.
The awarding commission cited her "multidisciplinary research into the communication between doctors and patients, and her internationally used research method for quantifying non-verbal communication".
being-beyond-the-world Two other concepts structure Binswanger's view on existence, relating to the relationship between humans and the world or objects around them.
Early life Hester Agnes Pinsent was born in 1899, in Harborne, Birmingham, Staffordshire, the only daughter of Hume Chancellor Pinsent (a relative of the philosopher David Hume) and his wife Dame Ellen Pinsent (née Parker).
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.131.4.483 References External links Faculty Profile Lab Website (CAIP Lab) Andres De Los Reyes publications indexed by Google Scholar Future Directions Forum Website Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology
Satwant Pasricha of the Maulana Azad Medical College appreciates her work on the subject, but he also places not-verifiable truth like "rebirth" and “reincarnation” out of the domain of the scientific knowledge.
Cameron is an American neuroscientist who researches adult neurogenesis and diseases involving the hippocampus.
Altschul also did a mathematics degree at the Open University, was involved in assessing the joint education of architects and engineers, and was a volunteer teacher of mathematics at a local primary school (for under 11 year olds).
After three years of studies a crisis of vocation led him away from Law and into Art, especially theatre and creativity.
Education and career Indermaur graduated from the University of Western Australia, obtaining a masters in clinical psychology in 1979 and a Doctor of Law in 1997.
He worked in the National Health Service as a clinical psychologist at psychiatric hospitals, including Barrow Hospital, Bristol, Winterton Hospital, County Durham, and Graylingwell Hospital, Chichester.
Integrating multi-informant reports of youth mental health: A construct validation test of Kraemer and Colleagues’ (2003) Satellite Model.
In 1950 they moved to a house at 29 Andover Street and called it "the Clinic for Medical Psychology".
She established Positive Movement to champion sexual and reproductive health rights and build an inclusive society that does not judge people based on disabilities or HIV status.
Much of her work with HGAPS has involved updating Wikipedia pages for symptom measures to make these tools easily accessible.
Her work in sex education also involved postgraduate courses, seminars and lectures for groups including doctors and other professionals.
The book "guides readers on how to find and nurture more fulfilling friendships." Personal life Harden Bradford is married.
In 2012 Morse began a four-year run as guest co-host on the nationally syndicated Loveline radio show with Dr.
She then became a reader in nursing at the University of Teesside, and deputy director of the Teesside Centre for Rehabilitation Sciences.
The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences and the Institute of Psychology at Chemnitz University subsequently publicly distanced themselves from his statement and his colleagues criticized the article for mixing opinion and facts and for drawing discriminatory conclusions.
In 1821, on the death of James Gregory, Duncan became first Physician to the King in Scotland, having held the same office to the Prince of Wales for more than thirty years.
Charles Lamb gave the highest possible praise to his friend's Dramatic Sketches when he said that had he found them as anonymous manuscript in the Garrick Collection he would have had no hesitation about including them in his Dramatic Specimens.
She is also the founder and co-founder of multiple women's organizations and networks in Afghanistan and the region.
He served as an assistant professor of psychiatry at Tufts University School of Medicine and directed family therapy training at New England Medical Center Hospital.
Her children's books are known for their whimsical illustrations of animals and stories told in rhyme.
She has led longitudinal studies examining supported decision making (since 2015) and the quality of support in group homes (since 2009) for people with intellectual disabilities.
Her publication titled "Safer Bars: A cluster-randomized effectiveness evaluation of alcohol-related sexual violence prevention through bar staff bystander training" aimed to assess Safer Bars, a program that trains bartenders on the warning signs of sexual assault perpetration.
In 1988 she published her book Power from Within that summed up Batten's work as ‘an artist, teacher and ritual maker’ up to that time.
"Rooming-in" - newborn babies sharing a room with their mothers from birth onward - was an issue that divided Bevan-Brown and the Parents' Centres from the medical profession when the Centres considered federating at their conference in 1957, and needed official recognition.
Published works Bigby has published extensively in peer-reviewed journals, books and reports on disability practice and policy, including co-authoring systematic reviews and frameworks for supported decision making and community participation.
He is professor and chair of psychiatry and psychotherapy at the University of Fribourg in Switzerland.
At Stanford, she collaborated with Andrew Ng, and became interested in whether artificial intelligence can meaningfully help people with mental health conditions.
She was mentioned in a Sargent Shriver speech about the Peace Corps, appeared in a Peace Corps publicity film, and featured in a Life magazine article in 1965, about the culture shock returning volunteers faced.
He married Essi Matilda Forster (née Christian, who was the first female Gold Coast native to become a lawyer) on 17 December 1944.
She received her bachelor's degree from Xavier University of Louisiana and her master's degree in vocational rehabilitation counseling from Arkansas State University.
She has taught at the University of Oregon and, up until her retirement in 2016 from providing counseling services, was co-director with her husband, Larry Maltz, of Maltz Counseling Associates therapy practice in Eugene, Oregon.
He began writing stories while he was at the university and publishing some articles and short stories in local and daily newspapers.
After his debut, he played a number of minor matches against Sussex in 1956, as well as the touring New Zealanders and Worcestershire, both in 1959.
She is active in Helping Give Away Psychological Science (HGAPS), a 501(c)3, focused on disseminating information to promote well-being in the community.
Honors Officer of Order of Merit of the Italian Republic "On the initiative of the President of the Republic" - 2 December 1997 References External links ( EN ) Works by Emmanuele Jannini, on Open Library, Internet Archive .
After attending Retford High School for Girls in Nottinghamshire she went to train as a nurse at Leeds General Infirmary, qualified in 1944, and worked there, first as a staff nurse, then in 1946 as a sister on a ward where there were some psychiatric patients.
The fourth, co-edited with Marianne Soff (Karlsruhe, Germany), was published in 2022: it is the revised and expanded third edition of Gestalt psychologist Wolfgang Metzger's fundamental work "Schöpferische Freiheit - Gestalttheorie des Lebendigen" (Creative Freedom - Gestalt theory of the living).
He was privately educated in Southampton and at Highgate School, followed by King's College London and King's College Hospital.
Rejecting his father's wish that he should join the ironworks business, Prichard decided upon a medical career.
Ian Robertson has published more than 200 books and articles in leading journals, including Nature, Brain, Journal of Neuroscience, and Psychological Bulletin.
Samo dela ljubavi ostaju (Just the Work of Love Remains; preface by monk Mitrophan of Hilandar), Novi dani, Belgrade 1994.
While their research was in process, they became guinea pigs for their own experiments when they became addicted to cocaine.
He also works extensively on issues surrounding mentorship and skills-based approaches to early career development.
Rush's NYRF Rape Conference presentation about incest and childhood sexual abuse reviewed psychiatric and psychoanalytical literature from Freud to that time that attributed such problems to children's seduction of adults or erotic fantasies.
Dovzhenko's method was approved by the Department for Implementing of Medication and Medical Equipment of the Ministry of Healthcare and by the Ministry of Healthcare of Soviet Ukraine.
He has written a treatment manual for the application of this model and treatment to anxiety and mood disorders.
Given these health problems, and knowing his end was not far off, he asked to spend the remainder of his life at Dinan in France, where he died on 24 April 1914.
Lynch made his first appearance for the team during the 1982 championship and became a regular player over subsequent seasons until his retirement in 1989.
Beliefs about sexuality Kotb cites Al-Baqara ("The Cow"), the longest surah (chapter) of the Quran, as her inspiration for understanding human sexuality, noting that it speaks about the daily life of a man and woman and commands the man to provide pleasure to his wife.
While at Johns Hopkins, she was founding director of the Center for Mental Health and Addiction Policy and the Johns Hopkins StigmaLab.
Leadership role: Helps the patient assume maximum responsibility for meeting treatment goals in a mutually satisfying way.
Dovzhenko Republican Narcological Psychotherapy Center (Республиканский Наркологический Психотерапевтический Центр им.
He became a lecturer at Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry in 1992, and became a professor there in 1998.
Anderson nevertheless trained successfully as a nurse at Nottingham General Hospital and did psychiatric nursing at the Coppice Hospital.
When the Whigs came to power in 1830 under Lord Grey, Vernon was appointed a Lord of the Treasury (government whip), which he remained also when Lord Melbourne became Prime Minister in July 1834.
In August 2021, Yuma moved to Barcelona together with her partner Zhenya, their daughters Alina and Mila and Alina's partner Ksyusha.
The New York Times described Kaplan as someone who was "considered a leader among scientific-oriented sex therapists.
As a faculty member of psychology at the University of New Brunswick, she established the Muriel McQueen Fergusson Centre for Family Violence.
He was appointed physician in ordinary to George IV in 1823, in 1830 physician extraordinary to Queen Adelaide, and in 1833 lord chancellor's visitor in lunacy.
Joan Garriga Bacardí (Bellpuig, Lleida, 28 November 1957) is a Gestalt and humanistic psychologist and psychotherapist.
She then returned to nursing as a community psychiatric nurse, specialising in working with families.
In 1974, she was appointed the executive director of the Hinds County Association for Mental Health.
Her efforts to strive to promote human rights, women rights, equality, justice and peace during her work as the Minister of Women's Affairs are published in two books.
"Emotional Distress Among LGBT Youth: The Influence of Perceived Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation".
Life He was born at 106 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh on 24 June 1833 the son of Jane Graham (1807–1875), from Clonmel, Ireland and William Sibbald (1799–1877).
Following service with the Royal Air Force Police during the Second World War, he worked in the National Health Service in psychiatric hospitals.
He served as a professor and Deputy Medical Superintendent at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore.
Davis is also a licensed clinical psychologist in the state of Arizona and was previously licensed in the state of Washington.
In 1922, he authored The Heart of the Anti-Vivisectionist which criticized arguments of the anti-vivisection movement.
A new republic, a united Ireland, and the importance of the Irish language were key themes in her speech, saying that it will be the working language in Áras an Uachtaráin.
Mary Dobbie says in her history of Parents' Centres New Zealand that Bevan-Brown was the centre of a "ferment" of controversy among psychology students in staid Christchurch in the 1940s.
Of modest family origins, he established a lucrative private practice and served as Governor of Guy's Hospital, Fullerian Professor of Physiology and President of the Clinical Society.
Both published articles about their work, and Skellern's papers have been described as giving a "definitive picture of the new developments in psychiatric nursing in the 1950s".
An investigation of an abnormality of cognitive function in a cooperative young psychotic: an example of the application of experimental method to the single case.
Playing career A native of Bohermore in Galway city, Inky played in his first county championship final for Liam Mellows in 1935.
Geological studies Retiring to England, Crichton wrote several books dealing with medical and geological subjects, becoming a member of the Geological Society in 1811.
He provoked the students by arguing that mind and consciousness are not spiritual entities, separate from the body; they are simple spin-offs from brain activity.
History Copeland's work is based on the study of the coping and wellness strategies of people who have experienced mental health challenges.
Career Skarbek learned English on his arrival in Britain and entered St Mary's Hospital, London, qualifying as a doctor in 1954.
The intervention integrates principles from sleep and circadian science, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, interpersonal and social rhythm therapy, chronotherapy, and motivational interviewing.
Murphy was part of a team at Washington University that helped move American psychiatry toward evidence-based medicine.
She is founder of the Ayesha Chundrigar Foundation, a non profit animal rescue organization based in Karachi, Pakistan.
Father Rami Elias is a member of the Catholic Synod in Syria founded by both the clergy and lay people, working towards reconsidering the Church doctrine and its religious discourse, in coordination with the Episcopal Council and the Eastern Catholic Synod in Rome.
She incorporated the advice and experience of Eva Le Gallienne, her friend and neighbor, as well as researching her stories backstage at La Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theatre in New York City.
in psychology in 1995 on the subject of teacher evaluations from Heidelberg University and completed a Habilitation in 2005 on the topic of teacher quality at University of Koblenz and Landau.
"Parental attitudes about sexually transmitted infection vaccination for their adolescent children".
The resource person is also in charge of relaying information to the patient about the treatment plan.
Nanbudo Turković founded the Gradec Nanbudo Club in Zagreb in 1978, named after the old part of Zagreb.
Born at Gy, a small village in the Haute-Saône department, he was member of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences and researched mental illnesses and phrenology.
Writing and publications She has contributed to various anthologies on sexuality and human rights, which have been covered in media and scholarly reviews.
The book throws light on some attempts made to recognise these rights and ensure their acceptance in society." Chandiramani published an analysis of the demographics and impact of TARSHI's helpline in a 1998 issue of the journal Reproductive Health Matters.
His treatise containing Celtic compared with Sanskrit words appeared in 1831 under the title Eastern Origin of the Celtic Nations.
They are usually not distinguished persons; they may be teachers at secondary schools, or those engaged in special education, or those working in hospitals in remote areas.
“Memory function” in psychiatric patients over sixty, some methodological and diagnostic implications.
Early life and education Hanneman was born on a farm in Lincoln County, Kansas, and raised in Junction City, the daughter of Frank William Hanneman and Lydia Ellen Vonada Hanneman.
However the Whig government, by a majority of 145, amended this to substitute "thirteen" in place of "eighteen" and the act as it passed ensured that no child under thirteen worked more than nine hours.
Public psychiatry is very rewarding, and with disadvantaged patients, together with over-worked colleagues, clinicians have the potential to make a difference.
Mony Elkaïm (7 November 1941 – 20 November 2020) was a Moroccan-Belgian psychiatrist and psychotherapist.
From 2006 until his retirement Zimet was a faculty member in the Cancer Prevention and Control Program of the Indiana University Simon Comprehensive Cancer Center.
Physical dependence can happen with the chronic use of many drugs—including even appropriate, medically instructed use.
Career Chundrigar headed a refugee camp of 700 displaced people in Islamabad after the 2005 earthquake in Pakistan.
Ayesha Chundrigar (Urdu: عائشہ چندریگر) is a Pakistani animal welfare activist, entrepreneur and journalist.
Shirley Edith Zussman (née Dlugasch; July 23, 1914 – December 4, 2021) was an American sex therapist based in New York City.
She has been the editor-in-chief of the Journal of Psychosocial Nursing and Mental Health Services since 1981.
Salzer was ordained as a pastor in 1989, and worked for ten years at the Kaiser-Franz-Josef-Spital in Vienna, becoming engaged in the education of voluntary pastoral caretakers (Seelsorger).
Since 2011, he has chaired the working group "Stress-associated disorders" for ICD-11 revision by World Health Organization.
But since none of them managed to look like a little girl, Chespirito offered her the role of Paty, given her beauty and girlish face, in addition to her resemblance to the actress Regina Torné, who played the role of Aunt Gloria.
Creative works In 2010, Graham contributed an essay to the BBC Radio 3 "Letter to My Body" series, in which he expressed how the discovery that he was intersex led to addiction and depression.
In the 1980s and 1990s Indermaur worked on criminal investigations involving drugs and violent crime.
Hughes has researched and introduced creative techniques for personal development, including using embodied imagery in nature, the universal theory of archetypes, and adapting the Tibetan tradition of mandala-making to map individual values.
Awards 2016 Best Business Management Idea of the Year 2016 Books for a Better Life Award Winner | Psychology 2017 Thinkers50 Breakthrough Idea of the Year 2017 Axiom Business Book Award Medalist References External links "The gift and power of emotional courage" (TED talk), 2017.
He has received advanced statistical training at the University of Essex, UK, and at the Universities of Michigan in Ann Arbor and Yale, US.
She is an researcher and holds additional faculty affiliate roles at the Rutgers Center of Alcohol & Substance Use Studies at Rutgers University.
In 1870 he returned to Edinburgh to become deputy superintendent of the Royal Edinburgh Hospital under Dr David Skae.
Burns held various positions at Boston College, Harvard University, Hood College, the University of Maryland, and Johns Hopkins University before moving to Duke.
After working as part of a clinical research team studying serious mental disorders, MacIntosh joined the faculty of the University of Canterbury in 2017, rising to full professor in the School of Psychology, Speech and Hearing in 2022.
As an educator, Pulotu-Endemann rose to be associate-head of Manawatu Polytechnic's Nursing and Health Studies (now UCOL).
Films In 2016, Hughes directed The Moving Theatre, a documentary using art to share people's migration experiences.
The ban was criticized by some publications, with critics arguing that labeling her educational content as "prurient" perpetuates shame and hinders open discussions about sex.
During that time he won three All-Ireland winners' medals, three Munster winners' medals, one National Football League winners' medal and one All-Star award.
Edwards-Leeper stated that Lisa Littman's studies on detransitioners is a "critical preliminary step toward shedding light on" this population.
In 1973, she took San Francisco Sex Information's (SFSI) training, and was a member of their training staff for 20 years.
She was the first curator at the Kitale Museum when it opened in 1973, under the supervision of Richard Leakey.
Her dissertation was titled, Psychosocial Factors Associated with Women's Behavioral Intentions to Store Firearms Safely: An Application of the Theory of Planned Behavior.
Professor Thom helped to establish the network International Society of Addiction Journal Editors, a collective of Editors and Editorial Board members working in the Addiction field.
She developed opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and meningitis, and as a result she became blind and deaf in one ear.
In an 1809 edition of a work on insanity he included a detailed description of the case of James Tilly Matthews which is one of the earliest and clearest recordings of paranoid schizophrenia.
She was co-investigator on The Manchester Language Study, the largest UK longitudinal study of developmental language impairment.
She was a consultant at the Medical Foundation for the Victims of Torture during a period of expansion at the centre.
More specifically she investigates how coercion operates across gay and heterosexual populations with a focus on Brazilian, Spaniard, and Moroccan cultures.
In 1803, Crichton was invited to become the emperor of Russia's personal physician, and between 1804 and 1819 was appointed Physician in Ordinary (personal physician) to Tsar Alexander I of Russia and to Maria Feodorovna, the Dowager Empress.
Her research with Mathews demonstrated the role of mental imagery in generating emotional responses.
Other artists who found Batten's focus on community influential included Carol Shepheard who participated in Batten's Lifescape environment.
Culbertson Travel Grant to support women from developing countries in the early stages of their careers.
The documentary was selected in 1974 to be preserved in the National Film Archive and was re-released on DVD in 2014 as part of World in Action: Volume 4.
Edelstein Three Minute Therapy: Change Your Thinking, Change Your Life, a psychological self-help book based on Albert Ellis's rational emotive behavior therapy, re-released in paperback, 2019.
François Simonet de Coulmier (30 September 1741 – 4 June 1818) was a French Catholic priest, originally a member of the Premonstratensian canons regular, and an active member of the French legislature at the start of the French Revolution and again during the First French Empire.
Royal College of Nursing Carter succeeded Beverly Malone as general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing in January 2007.
She was the second president of the Association of Deans of Women and Advisors to Girls in Negro Schools, and served two terms as president of the National Association of College Women.
The Disorganized and Disadvantaged Family: Structure and Process (1967) Psychoanalytic Therapies and the Low Socioeconomic Population (1968) Families and Family Therapy.
During the Spanish–American War, she volunteered for service on the "Bay State", a hospital ship of Massachusetts Volunteer Aid Association, used to evacuate sick and wounded military personnel from Cuba and Puerto Rico.
In 2023 the Scottish Council for Development and Industry (SCDI) decided to relaunch itself under the new name of "Prosper" and as President of COSLA Morrison was involved in the process.
While studying medicine at the University of Edinburgh under William Cullen (1710-1790) he became a Freemason and was initiated in the Lodge Holyrood House (Saint Luke), No.44 in 1763.
A new Inebriates Act was working through parliament to allow magistrates to compulsorily admit habitual drunkards into Inebriate Reformatories for treatment for 3 years.
Bibliography The Pineapple Duck with the Peppermint Bill (Bobbs-Merrill, 1968) A Delightful Day with Bella Ballet (Oddo Publ., 1972) The Houndstooth Check (Oddo, 1972) The Simple Pink Bubble That Ended the Trouble with Jonathan Hubble (Oddo, 1972) The King, the Queen, and the Lima Bean (Oddo, 1974).
Ranked second in the 1981 National College Entrance Exam of Afghanistan (Kankor) at the national level.
Like several other former Nogizaka46 members, she is still signed to the Nogizaka46 management and has made public appearances related to her current occupation.
The Needs-to-Goals Gap: How informant discrepancies in youth mental health assessments impact service delivery.
CDS & ADHD pioneer He was the first person to distinguish between at least two kinds of disorders of attention, one a disorder of distractibility, lack of sustained attention, and poor inhibition resembling present-day combined presentation of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
She worked as a medical doctor in the Department of Psychiatry at Tokyo University following World War II.
While serving as the pastor of Abbeville, he was elected as a representative of the First Estate in the Estates General, later serving in the National Constituent Assembly.
Across his four first-class matches, Neville scored a total of 143 runs at an average of 17.87, with a highest score of 38.
His father Matthew Poole (or Pool) owned a coffee house and hotel at 1 Princes Street and lived above.
He divides his attention between attending therapeutic teaching conferences, which have taken him around the world, and the writing of his books, which he considers therapeutic tools.
In 1976 he worked as a psychologist for prisoners in Western Australia, researching public views on punishment for crimes and court sentencing.
Both are fully present in the moment and feel a union with the other." The four major concepts in the science of caring are health, nursing, environment or society, and human being.
In the late 1830s he was a pioneer advocate of mental health reform, and in 1838 he became superintendent of the Montrose Asylum, succeeding W.
Research Bigby’s research focuses on practice that enhances the engagement, inclusion, and quality of life of adults and older people who have intellectual and cognitive disabilities.
In October 2004 she received her 'Doctorate in Human Sexuality' from the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco.
She also acquired certifications in sex and relationship therapy from the Cambridge Health Alliance of Harvard Medical School and Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS).
He started to be known as Andrew Skarbek and in 1969 became clinical director of the London Clinic of Psychotherapy.
Arnold published a two-volume work titled Observations on the Nature, Kinds, Causes and Prevention of Insanity, the first volume appearing in 1782 and the second in 1806.
In 2017, Salzer was a founding member of the initiative Omas gegen Rechts together with Susanne Scholl.
In 1782, Duncan founded the Harveian Society of Edinburgh, which also still meets today and - like other Harveian societies - celebrates the work of physician and anatomist William Harvey, especially concerning the circulation of the blood.
It maintains the scalability and agency that define self-help techniques while enhancing (rather than replacing) human healthcare providers and unlocking the therapeutic power associated with guiding.
She received her BA degree from Fort Hare University in 1977, and completed her Honours in Psychology in 1979.
Graham made the decision "after being quoted £35,000 on Airbnb for a month’s stay." == References ==
Later, Byers, Kaitlyn Goldsmith and Amanda Miller concluded that out of 107 men and 102 women, only 30 percent would choose to live life as the opposite gender.
She then taught at the University of Surrey for some years before returning to Scotland, this time to the University of Glasgow where she became Head of the Section of Psychological Medicine and led the development of the Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
More recently she has participated in research around aging and the benefits of mindfulness and community.
"Variables in delayed disclosure of childhood sexual abuse." American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 71.3 (2001): 332.
Early life and education Zussman was born Shirley Edit Dlugasch on July 23, 1914, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
Bibliography He is author of a book on resiliency and on the gut-brain-connection, both published in German (“Resilienz: Der Wir-Faktor”, Schattauer-Verlag, "Die Darm-Hirn-Connection: Revolutionäres Wissen für unsere psychische und körperliche Gesundheit", Schattauer-Verlag).
Kamiya entered the Juyu Gakuen, but changed her school within a few months to the Girls' High School of Seijo Gakuen (it now has a higher education department; Seijo University).
Although she joined NYU in 2022, she remains affiliated with Northwell Health and the Zucker School of Medicine.
George Earl Murphy (October 17, 1922 – 2022) was an American psychiatrist who made seminal contributions to research on suicide, psychotherapy, and alcoholism.
This opened in 1897 in front of Horfield Prison as the Royal Victoria Home, for Inebriate Women, licensed as a (Voluntary) Retreat under the 1879 Habitual Drunkards Act.
It includes series of authored and co-authored papers, artwork, and poetry in the form of an "Archive of Resistance: Anti-Anorexia/anti-Bulimia." Publications 1989.
Academic career Spring has held faculty appointments in preventive medicine, psychology, and psychiatry, and has worked at the intersection of behavioral science and public health.
In 1866, he was elected President of the Medico-Psychological Association, and he used his Presidential Address as an opportunity to spell out (at considerable length) his concepts of medical psychology.
Ballantine Books.Publication date June 27, 2023 ISBN 9780593497241 See also Race and health in the United States Mental distress References External links Official website
She was inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame, and awarded the Magnus Hirschfeld Medal, the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, the Leo Baeck Medal, the Planned Parenthood Margaret Sanger Award, and the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.
After education at private schools in and near Great Yarmouth, his brother Robert proposed to establish him in his house in London in order that he might study anatomy under Sir Anthony Carlisle at Westminster Hospital.
In 1993, Orford moved to the University of Birmingham initially to direct the training programme in clinical psychology.
In November 2000, the GPA's first annual general meeting took place in Killarney, County Kerry, where Farrell was elected as chairman.
He was clinically trained at the Shalvata Mental Health Center in Hod-Hasharon, Israel (1997–1999) and the Yale Child Study Center (2002–2004).
David Westbrook commended his writing style, stating he employed a "balanced approach" and wrote in a "clear" manner.
Work Pasricha has investigated and participated in about 500 cases of reincarnation involving children (referred to as subjects) since 1973 who claim to remember previous lives.
Crichton's extensive collection of minerals consisted mainly of specimens from Siberia, Russia, Norway, Hungary, Germany, the UK, the US and India.
As a reforming feminist, she ensured that her writing was non-sexist at a time when others had not yet adapted their attitudes.
ISBN 978-0-7553-5526-6 Non fiction A Load of Old Balls: Men in History (London: Simon & Schuster, 1994).
A recovered alcoholic, (treated by Max Glatt), Bolton founded the Rutland Centre for addiction treatment in 1978, and co-founded the Irish branch of Narcotics Anonymous in 1983.
He completed his clinical psychology internship at the Department of Psychology, Institute for Juvenile Research at University of Illinois at Chicago.
In 1840, he published his last, and he considered his best book, The Physiological and Moral Management of Infancy.
2009 Extraordinary General Meeting In 2009, Chua's supporters sparked an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) to challenge Ong Tee Keat's presidency and to reinstate Dr Chua back as a MCA member and deputy president.
The concept of emotional agility was named as the best business management idea of the year by Harvard Business Review.
Early life Newton was voted most improved player his junior year and "most valuable lineman" and All-League defensive tackle his senior year at John Glenn High School.
In these roles he worked closely with Dr Thomas Clouston of the Edinburgh Asylum, who was also a close neighbour (26 Heriot row).
In 1997, Watson sustained an injury that resulted in the loss of her left eye, then a year later, her husband of 37 years died by suicide.
She appeared as a guest on many TV shows such as Embarrassing Bodies, Extreme Phobias, Porn Laid Bare and Gadget Show.
OCLC 965120240.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Steele, David Ramsay (2019).
Later, he studied for an MA in Philosophy Applied to Healthcare from the University of Wales, Swansea.
Adler (inferiority complex) Lauren Alloy Nathan Azrin B Richard Bandler, co-founder of neuro-linguistic programming (NLP) David H.
Publications A Descriptive Notice of the Sussex Lunatic Asylum, Haywards Heath (1859) A Case of Homicidal Mania, Without Disorder of the Intellect (1860) The Care and Treatment of the Insane Poor (1867) == References ==
Charles Sidney Bluemel (17 July 1884 – 17 December 1960) was a British–American psychiatrist and pioneer of speech pathology, best known for his research on stuttering.
Louis Francisque Lélut (1804–1877) was a French medical doctor and philosopher known for his works Démon de Socrate and L'Amulette de Pascal, where he stated that Socrates and Blaise Pascal were insane.
She has done research on large quantities of video recorded conversations between doctors and patients and has built a database of over 16,000 entries.
Resolution Phase/Termination Phase The termination phase of the nurse client relationship occurs after the current goals for the client have been met.
He died in May 1873 from injuries inflicted by a patient in Fisherton House Asylum, Salisbury, during an inspection.
His proposers were Sir Andrew Douglas Maclagan, John Sibbald, Sir William Turner and Alexander Buchan.
"Inky" Flaherty (27 September 1917 – 20 May 1992) was an Irish hurler who played at senior level for the Galway county team from 1936 until 1953, and was also a noted boxer.
In 2008, Asagwara completed a Bachelor of Science in Psychiatric Nursing from the University of Winnipeg and Brandon University.
"Brief cognitive-behavioral phone-based intervention targeting anxiety about the threat of attack: A pilot study." Behaviour Research and Therapy 43.5 (2005): 669-679.
Stemberger has edited and published five important Gestalt psychological anthologies: The first appeared in 2002 and contains classical and contemporary Gestalt psychological contributions to psychopathology ("Psychische Störungen im Ich-Welt-Verhältnis").
Following the death of her husband and business partner, Dennis Minogue, in 1981, Forum magazine closed.
Frank Tallis (born 1 September 1958) is an English author and clinical psychologist, whose area of expertise is obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
Sudders holds a bachelor's degree with honors and a master's degree in social work from Boston University, and honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts School of Professional Psychology and Bridgewater State University.
Petar Turković (born 1 November 1957) is a Croatian clinical psychologist, psychotherapist, social entrepreneur, master of martial arts, and sports executive.
"Yes, Gambling Is Productive and Rational", Liberty (1997), reprinted in A Rhetoric of Argument by Jeanne Fahnestock and Marie Secor.
Boylston was still anxious for adventure and wrote to a friend "Daddy wants me to settle down, but I'm young!
Elias is also responsible for the Catholic Christian Education Committee, and supervises the Catholic Church educational centres in Greater Damascus.
Research Linden's research has focused on cardiovascular health and hypertension, specifically psychosocial risk factors, stress reactivity, and behavioral treatments targeted at reducing health risk behaviors.
From 2004 to 2009, she was race equality programme lead for National Institute for Mental Health in England.
In later years, she suffered from the neurodegenerative condition, progressive supranuclear palsy, and ended her life at Dignitas in Switzerland.
An exception to this pattern appears to be perceived social support from family members, which – according to Shahar and Henrich – should be the principal target of preventive interventions.
If a person wants to regain his ability to be happy or be happier, he had to work his way through these layers.
Spider-Man Duane wrote a trilogy of Spider-Man novels, The Venom Factor, for Byron-Preiss Multimedia from 1994 to 1996.
Tarumianz who was looking for nurses with a background in psychology, hired Mitchell to come work for him at the Governor Bacon Health Center.
The play showcased the sex therapist's life from fleeing the Nazis in the Kindertransport and joining the Haganah in Jerusalem as a scout and sniper, to her struggles to succeed as a single mother coming to the United States.
Early life and education June Selena Dobbs was born in Atlanta, Georgia on June 11, 1928, to Irene (née Thompson) and John Wesley Dobbs, an American civil and political leader.
"Management of Neuropsychiatric Symptoms of Dementia in Clinical Settings: Recommendations from a Multidisciplinary Expert Panel".
Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Bettany, George Thomas (1888).
Robert Wilfred Skeffington Lutwidge (17 January 1802 – 28 May 1873) was an English barrister, Commissioner in Lunacy and early photographer.
She owns a Yorkshire Terrier named Monica (モニカ), who functions as the mascot for her counseling business.
She currently holds a doctorate in counseling psychology, two postgraduate diplomas, and an undergraduate degree, all within the field of psychology.
He was the author of Visions in Verse, first published in 1751; and a two volume complete collection of his works was published in 1791.
On 14 January 2014, Brand presented an episode of The Great Sport Relief Bake Off on BBC Two, a charity version of The Great British Bake Off.
In 1847, Gull was elected Fullerian Professor of Physiology at the Royal Institution of Great Britain, a post which he held for two years, during which time he formed a close friendship with Michael Faraday, at that time Fullerian Professor of Chemistry.
References External links Official website Dil Wickremasinghe Archived 17 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine at Newstalk 2014 Interview on Ireland AM
Dovzhenko, has an incredible effect: from 82% to 93% of his patients give up drinking and become full-fledged human beings." In 1985 in Feodosia's Stamboli Palace building Dovzhenko opened the Republican Narcological Psychotherapy Center under the Ministry of Healthcare of Soviet Ukraine.
She also received the 2021 Distinguished Scientist Award from the Society of Behavioral Medicine, which described the honor as the organization's highest annual award.
1960s In the 1960s, Abbot attended Dundee Commercial College to attain the Highers he needed to attend university.
She decided to withdraw from the cameras and continue working in the production area until 1980, in order to study psychology in the United States and due to the birth of her first child in 1981.
According to Buchanan, Eysenck believed that the quality of his research would "help temper social wrongs and excesses".
"The wife, the mother, and the slut: sexual pleasure for the Filipino woman a grounded theory approach".
He then proceeded to the Institute of Psychiatry in London where he completed the Diploma in Clinical Psychology followed by a PhD.
Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center and held a leadership role in team science at the Northwestern University Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute.
Career After his postdoctoral training, Zimet joined Case Western Reserve University as an Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (1986–1987), then as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, a position he held from 1987 to 1993.
Thus, having an underlying system of medical knowledge was a practical way to organize the knowledge coherently for the students.
She also co-authored Protecting Your Child from Sexual Abuse: What You Need to Know to Keep Your Kids Safe (2018, 2nd ed.
Awards 2008 - 2009 - President, British Psychological Society 2009 - Secretary General, European Federation of Psychologists' Associations == References ==
Morse contributes frequently to many major online publications including Glamour, Cosmopolitan, Ask Men, Popsugar, Pattiknows.com, Men's Health, and Harper's Bazaar.
McIntosh's research focuses on assessing and improving the outcomes of therapies for psychological disorders, such as eating disorders, depression and anxiety.
At Duke, she was co-director of the psychiatric, epidemiology, and health services research program from 1989 to 1997.
Byers' analysis of the results was that sexist beliefs and stereotypes played a role in the participants' answers.
Andreas Maercker (born 26 April 1960) is a German clinical psychologist and international expert in traumatic stress-related mental disorders who works in Switzerland.
She married Northern Irish author Peter Morwood in 1987; they later moved to the United Kingdom and then to Ireland, where they resided in Grangecon, County Wicklow.
In 1791, he published a book entitled Philosophy of madness, which some consider the first book in the field of psychiatry.
Stress and coping among college students in the Dominican Republic.Californian Journal of Health Promotion, 15 (1), 78-84.
Research work For many years, Rief's scientific work focused on the investigation of psychological factors in the development, maintenance and management of physical complaints.
In 2005, he was accused of copying the fifth part of his book, Shimriti, from a text by Mónica Cavallé, though he later declared that it was "an absolutely involuntary error" while citing sources.
Arnold’s classification divided mental illness into two major groups: "ideal" and "notional." Each group contained numerous subdivisions and many were interchangeable.
Morse is also an alumna of the Somatica Institute in San Francisco where she received training as a sex and relationship coach.
While exhibiting her paintings and collages, she began creating children's books that were first published in 1972.
After graduation, she began her career at Massachusetts General Hospital School of Nursing, and held different administrative positions, including head nurse, supervisor, and superintendent.
A Publishers Weekly review said that his book The Myth of Sex Addiction "makes a thoughtful and persuasive argument, using case studies and ample references to the work of other psychologists to flesh out his case.
Kotov is a clinical psychologist and professor in the Renaissance School of Medicine at Stony Brook University.
Zimet is an American clinical psychologist and academic researcher known for his work on vaccination attitudes and behavior, particularly regarding human papillomavirus vaccination (HPV), and for co-developing the Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS).
Arriving in Granada in 1878, he met two women - María Josefa Recio and María Angustias Giménez - who in 1881 set up a women's hospital.
In L'Aquila, he first created the specialist degree course in sexology (Faculty of Psychology) and then, in collaboration with Sapienza University of Rome, the "Clinical Psychosexology" master's degree course.
In 1988, Ros co-founded the influential Systemic Thinking and Practice book series and her title Teaching Family Therapy (1993) remains key text in the field.
Coping strategies are classified as either healthy or unhealthy, depending on their likelihood of additional adverse consequences.
Sudders left office at the end of the Baker–Polito administration and joined the lobbying, public policy, and consulting firm of Smith, Costello and Crawford.
By measuring the relationship between educational data and social well-being over time, Rindermann also performed a causal analysis, finding that nations investing in education leads to increased well-being later on.
Na has received multiple awards from organizations such as the National Institute of Mental Health and the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry.
Selected exhibitions and performances Batten remained a feminist artist throughout the eighties and nineties known for her collaborative art projects for women and ritual performances.
In May 2009, Jaman became a founding member and chief executive of Mental health first aid (MHFA) England, which is a not-for-profit organisation that teaches people how to identify and support a person who may be experiencing mental ill health.
Binswanger also thought that it is only possible to observe one's existence and/or unique personality by looking at it holistically, emphasized in this quote from Binswanger: It is a question of attempting to understand and to explain the human being in the totality of his/her existence.
A Methodist, he has frequently spoken publicly about the role of faith and spirituality in sustaining recovery.
Although he enjoyed the academic parts of his schooling, he enjoyed sport more, playing cricket in the summer and rugby union in the winter.
Another son, William Withering Arnold, received his MD at Cambridge and served on the asylum staff from 1800 to 1840.
Her research is focused on community participation, supported decision making, and quality of support for people who have intellectual and cognitive disabilities.
Those who practice psychiatry in the workplace are called occupational psychiatrists in the United States and occupational psychology is the name used for the most similar discipline in the UK.
She took particular interest in the lives of children in crisis, and after the war she chaired the juvenile panel of the Cambridge magistrates' courts from 1949 to 1958.
Personal life Provence has worked as a mental health counselor since August 1990, months after retiring from the NFL.
Blau Nathaniel Branden, notable as a clinician for sentence stems technique, style of group therapy, clinical approaches to self-esteem work David D.
Career Hester Adrian lived in Cambridge as the wife of a professor (who was also Master of Trinity College from 1951–1965), and a social hostess of the university, welcoming distinguished guests to Trinity College with her husband.
Pinsent attended Somerville College, Oxford, from 1919 to 1922, graduating with second-class honours in modern history.
Salvador Minuchin (October 13, 1921 – October 30, 2017) was a family therapist born and raised in San Salvador, Entre Ríos, Argentina.
He was a Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of London and Royal College of Surgeons of England.
Healthy narcissism Kinsey postulates that healthy narcissism is the ability to invest love in oneself and other people.
In 1999, he accepted a position at the University of Manchester, collaborating with researchers based there who were working in understanding the treatment of psychotic experiences.
Sir Frederick Walker Mott (23 October 1853 in Brighton, Sussex – 8 June 1926 in Birmingham, Warwickshire) was one of the pioneers of biochemistry in Britain.
Befrienders are carefully selected volunteers, from a variety of organisations and mental health charities, who are trained to provide support and companionship to lonely, or emotionally distressed, people.
In April 2020, Woebot added COVID-19 support, expanding its CBT support to include interpersonal psychotherapy.
When his training with Ackerman was complete, Minuchin returned to Israel to assist displaced children as a child psychiatrist (Nichols, 2010).
He participated in the founding of the Christian Theological Institute for Laity in Syria and launched with some lay people the Joint Qualification project providing proper preparation to Church leaders in Damascus.
Research and career He was Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry at Washington University School of Medicine.
In 1909 they expanded by leasing the Dower House in Bristol to create the core of the Stoke Park Colony.
113–7, PMID 5339997 Straus, E (1966), "[To the memory of Ludwig Binswanger 1881-1966]", Der Nervenarzt, vol.
Awards and honors 2006: Premio de Novela Ciudad de Torrevieja, winner, El Candidato References External links (Spanish:) Healthy Mind, Jorge Bucay's magazine (Spanish:) Amarse con los ojos abiertos Forum (Spanish:) Biography
In addition, de la Macorra participated in two songs in El Chavo del Ocho: the song "That, that, that" in the 1979 episode "Valentine's Day Part 1" and "Cri Crí", which appears at the end of the episode "Children's Day ”, also from 1979.
She also helped found the International Association of Therapists for Desisters and Detransitioners (IATDD) and the Gender Dysphoria Support Network (GDSN) in 2020.
See also History of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder References Further reading Charland, Louis C (September 2008).
He then studied for a winter in London, and settled in the following year at Durham; but moved back to London by the advice of Sir William Knighton in 1812.
Along with the French neurologist Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard, his work enabled paraplegic symptoms to be understood in context with the prevailing, limited understanding of spinal cord pathology, for the first time.
The Culbertson family moved to Washington D.C in 1950 on account of her husband's work with the Federal Reserve Board.
She treated sex therapy patients in a private practice, on East 73rd Street on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Rief was spokesperson of the Commission "Psychology and Psychotherapy Training" of the German Society for Psychology (DGPs) and advocated, among other things, a revision of the Psychotherapists Act, which was finally approved by the German Bundestag in 2019.
from Otago University in 1921, and returned to London on a Medical Travelling Scholarship, registering as a medical practitioner on August 10, 1923.
The right to make choices about sexuality, control over such rights and related issues are voiced regularly at international forums.
in statistics in 1967 from the Department of Mathematical Statistics in the Columbia Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.
She continued her education in the United States with a diploma in nursing at Johns Hopkins Hospital and a Bachelor of Science from Columbia University.
She shares this belief to help her students conduct research that has positive real world application.
He began playing club cricket for Leinster in 1941, before moving to Malahide, where he was to play the majority of his club cricket.
Life and career Born at Leeds, Yorkshire, he was educated at Harrow School, where he had for contemporaries Lord Byron and Robert Peel.
In October 1817, he went to Paris to complete his medical studies, specialising in anatomy and investigating cerebral morphology under Spurzheim's supervision in 1818–19.
Graham was an executive producer of the 2018 short film Ponyboi, along with executive producers Stephen Fry, Johan Sorenson, Elizabeth Sorenson, and DJ Rutherford, and co-producers Emma Thompson, Rachel Singer, and Jamison Monroe.
She co-chaired the Forum on Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine and has served as a board member and vice president for the Association of Public Policy and Management.
Although Kotb says that she is open to most questions, as part of her proposal she agreed to not discuss sex outside of marriage.
"Treating the Sexual Intimacy Concerns of Sexual Abuse Survivors." Sexual and Relationship Therapy, Vol 17, No 4.
She has been a mental health practitioner since 2011 and worked as a college counselor until 2014, when she created Therapy for Black Girls.
Barbarin received the 1979 Distinguished Public Service Award from the Prince George's County Government and the 2015 Distinguished Contributions to Understanding International, Cultural, and Contextual Diversity in Child Development Award from the Society for Research in Child Development.
In support of these measures, Ashley gave a speech in which he claimed that although since 1828 there had been an improvement, more still needed to be done.
After a visit to Switzerland, he returned to Edinburgh in 1819, intending to start a practice there.
The 1868 deposition of Queen Isabella II set off renewed persecution and Menni - chosen as the Superior of the order in 1872 - found himself the object of constant threats.
or D.O.), a psychiatrist specializes in diagnosing, treating, and preventing mental, emotional, and behavioral disorders, and is uniquely qualified to prescribe medications and order a full range of medical and laboratory tests to assess the physical aspects of psychological problems.
He was a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, a member of the Association for the Advancement of Psychotherapy, USA, a member of the Royal College of Psychiatry, and a member of the Association of Psychiatrists of Africa.
In 1960 he attended a program in biostatistics at the University of Minnesota, then returned to Columbia University, where he earned an M.S.
Former Dublin camogie team manager Frank Browne called for Farrell's resignation as Dublin manager for the "arrogance" of his team's behaviour, adding: "I think it's a cop out to say they're amateur players.
105–122 [1] DEZINTEGRACJA.PL - the Polish website dedicated to Kazimierz Dąbrowski and his Theory of Positive Disintegration Kobierzycki, Tadeusz.
He was active in the British Psychological Society of which he became General Secretary in 1973 and then was elected president in 1982.
Her first book, Incest and Sexuality: A Guide to Understanding and Healing (coauthored with Beverly Holman, 1987), was the first book to address the sexual problems caused by incest and remains a professional classic.
Family Monro had several children, and three of his sons also became artists, in particular Henry (1791–1814).
Her next book, I'll Listen to Anything: Himeka Nakamoto's Counseling Room, was released in December 2023.
Salzer studied at the Institut für Systematische Therapie (IFS) to become a systematic psychotherapist.
However, since the epidemic of AIDS into the United States from 1981 into the 1990s, she added the caveat: "If you aren't extremely careful, it can kill you." Kaplan commented that she "absolutely hate[s] having to say that.
Back in the 90s Owens worked campaigning with Prostitution Pride, parades through London, which were funded by Arcadia events in North London.
Smoyak received the 2011 Award for Distinguished Service from the American Psychiatric Nurses Association.
He could read several languages and synthesized much European research for the American audience with his 1846 book, The Treatment of Insanity.
Chandrashekar Channapatna Rajannachar (born 6 June 1948) is an Indian psychiatrist, academic, and mental health advocate.
Dhami spent a year as the Principal Social Psychologist at Defence Science and Technology Laboratory.
Fleiss's second book, Design and Analysis of Clinical Experiments (1986), was equally influential among a different group of medical researchers.
Within the same year, the National Institute for Mental Health in England started offering Mental Health First Aid courses.
She has particularly looked at the mental health and HIV diagnoses of people from marginalized groups.
Lee is a fellow of the American Psychological Association, Association for Psychological Science, and The World Academy of Sciences.
Himself and Tom Spillane — assigned to mark Tommy Conroy and Barney Rock during the 1984 All-Ireland Senior Football Championship Final — began their efforts during the national anthem, which they sang with aplomb.
Through her work in journalism, Rek came into contact with civic leader Luis Fernando Camacho, who invited her to once again contest a Senate seat on behalf of his Creemos party, a proposal she accepted.
Detecting therapeutic improvement early in therapy: validation of the SCORE-15 index of family functioning and change.
As a result, to become successful in the medical marketplace depended more on social skills than on medical expertise, similar to other forms of businesses.
Bensing was director of the Nederlands Instituut voor Onderzoek van de Gezondheidszorg (NIVEL) between 1985 and 2008.
He played in 69 games, starting sixteen, for the team from 1983 to 1987 and accumulated five career sacks.
Honors and awards In 2021 the American College of Psychiatrists awarded Kales the Geriatric Psychiatry Award (2021) for her contributions to the field of mental health and aging.
Selected works Virginia V W McIntosh; Jennifer Jordan; Frances A Carter; Suzanne E Luty; Janice M McKenzie; Cynthia M Bulik; Christopher M A Frampton; Peter R Joyce (1 April 2005).
His books have sold more than 2 million copies around the world, and have been translated into more than seventeen languages.
However, after the material was distributed among ultra-conservative Telegram channels, VkusVill, as well as the families of the women from the ad, began to receive threats, including physical violence.
Development of Naikan During his study of Buddhism, Yoshimoto followed the ascetic practice of Mishirabe - an arduous form of meditation and self reflection which included physical privations including fasting, avoidance of sleep, and intense introspection sessions.
Later, he translated another book, with the contribution of Hamad Sinan Al-Ghaithi, entitled Neanderthal Man: In Search of Lost Genomes by Svante Paabo.
The third appeared in 2018, a collection of works of the German Gestalt psychologist, sports psychologist and lucid dreams researcher Paul Tholey ("Gestalttheorie von Sport, Klartraum und Bewusstsein").
He held various positions in the shadow ministry from 1992–96, but was not included on the front bench when Labor won office in 1999.
Curtis is also a member of the international organisation, the World Health Organisation, for international guidelines on the management of physical health amongst adults and young people with severe mental disorders.
She was a recruiter for the Peace Corps after her field service ended, and gave interviews and lectures on the Corps' work, including television appearances and international tours.
Internet Archive online document Relations politiques et commerciales de l'Empire romain avec l'Asie.
The doctor was sentenced in the first instance to a total penalty of 128 years imprisonment, plus fines for indecent assault with presumed violence, since the victims were unable to defend themselves.
Daktaras Kripštukas pragare (which was released in Soviet Lithuania only in 1984) also had elements of neo-romanticism.
Paul Gauguin may be cited as someone who experienced this, as he started his career as a stockbroker, but went into drawing art at the age of 35.
The Intercultural Exeter Model: Making connections for a divided world through systemic-behavioral therapy.
She later earned a master's degree from Fisk University, and a Doctorate of Education in family life education from the Teacher's College of Columbia University.
He was the honorary secretary of the Medico-Psychological Association and edited the Journal of Mental Science.
At the 32nd Dáil's second meeting on 5 April 2016, she made her maiden speech in which she criticised the Minister for the Environment, Community and Local Government Alan Kelly's handling of Ireland's homelessness crisis.
Danny Brom is a clinical psychologist and founding director of the Israel Center for the Treatment of Psychotrauma of Herzog Hospitalin Jerusalem, Israel.
Eysenck also created and developed a distinctive dimensional model of personality structure based on empirical factor-analytic research, attempting to anchor these factors in biogenetic variation.
Report on Examination of Medical Practitioners (1833) Memoranda regarding the Royal Lunatic Asylum, Infirmary, and Dispensary, of Montrose (1841) He is credited with dramas, including "Willie Armstrong" performed in Edinburgh in 1829.
Effectiveness Unlike professional careers, such as social workers, befrienders can become emotionally involved with their case, which often results in a more positive outcome as they are able to engage at a much deeper level.
Burns died on January 28, 2024, after living at the Carol Woods Retirement Community for three years.
Selected publications Monica Malta; Leticia Oliveira Cardoso; Francisco Inacio Bastos; Monica Maria Ferreira Magnanini; Cosme Marcelo Furtado Passos da Silva (1 June 2010).
In January 2013 and 2014, Brand was a judge, with Andy Banks and Leon Taylor, on the ITV show Splash!
Life After training in clinical psychology, Hetherington worked for a period in the Creighton Royal Hospital in Dumfries about which he wrote Hetherington, 1956).
After discovering her health status as being HIV positive, Sampa began to advocate for persons living with HIV/AIDS.
Lois Utz (née Cook) (January 4, 1932 – November 12, 1986; Paterson, New Jersey) was an American children's book author, illustrator, poet, and artist.
Pilot studies demonstrated improved recall of treatment content, while subsequent randomized trials yielded mixed efficacy findings and informed refinements to the intervention approach.
Awards and recognition Distinguished Life Fellow, American Psychiatric Association Research award for Advances in Suicide Prevention.
Abbot explained during this period that he took these positions to try and support himself while travelling in Africa, according to his Scottish Arts Council bursary application biographical statement, but his aim was to become a full-time writer.
Edwards-Leeper has advocated for better training of gender therapists and increased diligence in assessing mental health issues before assigning medical interventions such as puberty blockers and cross-sex hormones to patients.
However, in the early years of the nineteenth century, Bethlehem Hospital came to be compared unfavourably with the reformed asylums, notably with The Retreat in York, and with St Luke's under William Battie and his successors.
Following the decision of Ukraine's and Russia's Ministries of Healthcare, a medal named after People's Doctor of the USSR A.
Brand has had several solo television series, and presented shows such as Jo Brand's Commercial Breakdown.
All tackled the question of variation and race in humans; all agreed that these differences were heritable, but only Wells approached the idea of natural selection as a cause.
David received her BA in Applied Psychology & English (1992), Honors in Applied Psychology (1995), and her MA in Psychology (2000) from the University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
Yoshimoto accompanied his mother as she visited temples, and became interested in Buddhism from that time.
He was elected to the General Council of the Trades Union Congress in 1928 and remained a member until his retirement in 1948.
The purpose of the paper was to demonstrate the impossibility of defining psychiatric disorder without reference to values.
He represented the Trades Union Congress on the Nurses Salaries Committee chaired by Lord Rushcliffe which published two reports in 1943.
In that sense, she continued to operate within the alliance's Senate caucus; she served as deputy leader of CN from 2011 to 2012, was the group's acting leader from late 2012 to early 2013, and was elected to lead what remained of the bloc in the 2010–2015 legislature's closing year.
When the asylum opened for patients, Arnold, James Vaughn, and later Robert Bree were appointed physicians.
During the befriending process, continuous support is provided, through regular group meetings and individual meetings with a coordinator.
The disturbed adolescent and his family: problems of separation-individuation in the family system (1979), Journal of Adolescence, 2(1), 71–82.
Finding that his family name influenced people's perception of his work, he changed his name legally to Frank Kevlin.
His principal poetical works were: Dramatic Scenes and other Poems (1819), A Sicilian Story (1820), Marcian Colonna (1820), Mirandola, a tragedy performed at Covent Garden with Macready, Charles Kemble and Miss Foote in the leading parts (1821), The Flood of Thessaly (1823) and English Songs (1832).
At the same time he did post-graduate studies in neurology with Otto Marburg, in developmental psychology with Karl Ludwig Bühler and his wife, Charlotte Bühler, also a psychology professor, and in Neurophysiology with the Austrian physician, Wilhelm Schlesinger.
He advocated for the "moral" treatment of patients as well as music, occupational and recreational therapy.
Together they started developing their ideas, continuing during the 1980s, and eventually in 1990 published Narrative Means to Therapeutic Ends, the first major text in what came to be known as narrative therapy.
1846 – 31 August 1886), daughter of Sir Walter Farquhar, 3rd Baronet by his wife Lady Mary Octavia Somerset, a daughter of the Duke of Beaufort and had one son Wilfrid William Ashley (later Baron Mount Temple), and one daughter.
Pasricha studies not just the characteristics of reincarnation prevalent in India, but also suggests ways they are similar or different from those of people in other countries.
Her primary research interests include acculturation, health risk behaviors (tobacco use, binge drinking, sexual activity), health care utilization among Asian-American adolescents and sexual minority populations and health care utilization among people with mental illness.
He is also known for the development of the Addiction Severity Index or ASI and serves as editor-in-chief of the Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment, and the deputy officer of National Drug Control Policy, Research and Evaluation.
Chipkevitch is serving his sentence at a prison in Sorocaba, which houses predominantly rapists and child molesters.
In 2005, Copeland's work led to the creation of the non-profit, the Copeland Center for Wellness and Recovery which continues her work through trainings around the world.
Biography Botting received her BSc with honors degree in Psychology at University of Hertfordshire and her MA in Clinical Child Psychology at the University of Nottingham.
Spelman's works on psychology has been featured in online publications including The Guardian, The Independent, Daily Mirror, The Sun, Hello!, Nottingham Post, Metro, Stylist, DJ Mag and OK!.
In 2004, he became the founder and chief psychologist of Artgym, an organization that provides coaching on creative skills.
He also played Gaelic football for Parnells in Dublin; however the 'Ban' resulted in Neville being banned from playing by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA), after the GAA discovered him playing hockey under his mother's maiden name.
Zaborowski, Kazimierz Dąbrowski – l’homme et son œuvre in: Annales du Centre Scientifique à Paris de l’Académie Polonaise des Sciences 9, 2006, pp.
In 2020, she worked alongside fellow neuroscientists Jenny Kim and Nicholas Bulthuis to examine the effects of certain anesthesia on the hippocampus neurogenesis in rats, concluding that different anesthesias do affect adult neurogenesis, though the effects vary widely from drug to drug.
A community mental health center trial (N = 121) found that TSC reduced sleep disturbance and psychiatric symptoms and improved selected functional outcomes among socioeconomically disadvantaged individuals with severe mental illness receiving routine care.
Harry Keegan (born 12 January 1952) is an Irish former Gaelic footballer who played as a corner back for the Roscommon senior team.
Langner (January 1, 1924 – March 16, 2026) was an American sociologist who led the Midtown Manhattan Study, which showed the cultural and economic forces that shape mental illness.
Keith Benjamin Bakker (November 24, 1960 – April 7, 2025) was an American-Dutch mental health practitioner and convicted criminal.
Kaupas was said to have an excellent memory, and would take breaks from work by solving chess puzzles in his head from memory.
Bibliography Glass Slippers and Tough Bargains (1991) The Way We Live Now (1996) Flourishing (2011) The Complete Life (2018) Your One Wild and Precious Life (2019) == References and sources ==
She researches substance abuse, substance use epidemiology, and violence in marginalized youth including persons of color, LGBTQ, and immigrants.
References External links Nathaniel Cotton at the Eighteenth-Century Poetry Archive (ECPA) Visions in Verse, in an 1826 anthology "Nathaniel Cotton 1705–1788".
Salkovskis is an honorary fellow and former president of the British Association for Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies (BABCP), as well as a fellow of the British Psychological Society.
Butterly is a pacifist and a member of the International Solidarity Movement (ISM), an organisation that seeks non-violent alternatives to armed intifada by mobilising international civil society.
Andrzej identified her body when she was stabbed to death in a Kensington hotel, where she then lived, on 15 June 1952.
He also has a master's degree in professional counseling from Liberty University and is an ordained minister.
He proved to be a disappointing heir apparent, constantly running up debts with his extravagant wife Harriet, born Lady Harriet Chichester.
Criticism Like most body psychotherapeutic schools, Biodynamics is not recognized by the health insurance companies in the United States as a scientifically based therapeutic intervention.
The day after, the doctor was arrested at home, and police quickly began work on identifying the victims.
Biography Joseph D'Aquin (or Daquin) was born in 1732 in Chambéry, in the duchy of Savoy, part of the Kingdom of Sardinia.
They both settled in the suburb of Constantia, where Lady Spencer lived with the children at Silverhurst Estate, a gated community, and Lord Spencer resided in the nearby Tarrystone House, which he purchased in 1996.
While serving at Adams Nervine Hospital, she completed a one-year certificate course in hospital economics at Teachers College, Columbia University, and a six-month course in hospital administration at Massachusetts General Hospital of Nursing.
Film work Hooper is the founder of the Tetbury Film Society and now works with the British Federation of Film Societies – South West to further film viewing in remote regions of South West England.
In 1989, he came into contact with a social worker at Youth With A Mission, who helped him stop using drugs, and the two got married.
In 2012, Cohen Greene released her memoir, titled An Intimate Life: Sex, Love, and My Journey as a Surrogate Partner.
His first book, Insatiable Wives, won a Silver Medal in the Foreword Magazine Book of the Year in 2009.
Career Donley-Reid was an ornithological research assistant at the Smithsonian Institution after college.
In 1773, he commenced the publication of Medical and Philosophical Commentaries, a quarterly journal of medicine, at first issued in the name of "a society in Edinburgh", Duncan being named as secretary.
Jerotić received the 2003 Isidora Sekulić Award for his autobiography Putovanja, zapisi, sećanja: 1951–2000 (Voyages, Notes, Memories) and the Dositej Obradović Award 2014 for his life achievement.
Her blindness resulted from opportunistic infections including tuberculosis and meningitis due to poor adherence to antiretroviral therapy when she was stigmatized in school.
Works Kinsey is the author of Transcendent Parenting: A Workbook for Parents Sharing Children with Narcissists and a children's book called Dreams of Zugunruhe.
She first met her partner, the psychotherapist Anne Marie Toole, when they shared a room at a weekend mental health conference in Wicklow.
from the University of Rochester School of Medicine in 1992, did her residency and fellowship at the University of Michigan.
Grossarth and Eysenck claimed the existence of a "cancer prone personality" were supposed to have a risk of dying of cancer 121 times greater than controls, when exposed to the carcinogen physical factor tobacco smoking.
She says that the atmosphere within the program was very “neat and respectful.” She was also a friend of Edgar Vivar, and they met again more than thirty-five years later in 2015 thanks to a Brazilian program.
Publications Insanity in its Public Aspect (1877) Plans of Modern Asylums (1898) Suicide Statistics in Scotland (1900) == References ==
Subspecialists in child and adolescent psychiatry are required to complete a two-year fellowship program, the first year of which can run concurrently with the fourth year of the general psychiatry residency program.
Work International contributions of his work are a new diagnosis model of adjustment disorder, the introduction of complex post-traumatic stress disorder and prolonged grief disorder to ICD-11.
The results are varied, and lack unity, but they abound in pleasant touches, with here and there the flash of a higher, though casual, inspiration.
In July 2025, she joined the first leg of the Handala, another ship carrying activists and humanitarian supplies with the goal of breaking the tightened Israeli blockade amid the Gaza war.
Binswanger was also influenced by existential philosophy, particularly after World War I, through the works of Martin Heidegger, Edmund Husserl, and Martin Buber, eventually evolving his own distinctive brand of existential-phenomenological psychology.
Sir John Sibbald FRSE FBSE (24 June 1833 – 20 April 1905) was a 19th-century Scottish physician and amateur botanist.
The union was renamed the Mental Hospital and Institutional Workers' Union in 1930 and amalgamated with others to form the Confederation of Health Service Employees (COHSE) in 1947.
Research and career Malta studies the societal structures that impact the adoption of public health behavior.
They found that different practitioners using the DSM-II were rarely in agreement when diagnosing patients with similar problems.
Alcohol, power and public health: A comparative study of alcohol policy, Routledge 2017 Kolind, T., Thom, B.
She has written the book Seducing Your Man, hosted radio and television programs, and lifestyle topics, including Sex @ 11 with Rebecca.
Smoyak is a nurse and academic who has had a significant impact on the field of psychiatric nursing.
Althorp's nephews Prince Harry and Alexander Fellowes were the pageboys at their wedding and his nieces Eleanor Fellowes and Emily McCorquodale were bridesmaids.
Clark, and subsequently held a faculty appointment in Oxford’s Department of Experimental Psychology; she was also a Fellow of St Anne’s College.
She kept this position for two a further two years and in 1979 became the head of the research department.
He was a specialist in Psychedelic psychotherapy and had special permission from the BAG (Eidgenössisches Bundesamt für Gesundheitswesen), to use MDMA and LSD in psycholytic psychotherapy from 1988 to 1994.
Van Meter is interested in how technology can help facilitate access to evidence-based care for youth, especially those in under-served communities.
Davis' research has been used in an effort to pass legislation to include non-consensual condom removal in sexual assault laws.
That same year, he was appointed assistant medical officer at the Central Mental Hospital in Hatton.
He collaborated as a teacher, supervisor and therapist in the programmes run by Claudio Naranjo in different countries.
His main effort goes to bridging the gap between scientific data and the development of service provision in the community.
The Big Talk Kotb's show, The Big Talk, is a weekly call-in show broadcast on Al Mehwar, an Egyptian satellite channel; the show is transmitted across the Arab world.
Career Stevenson trained as a psychiatric nurse before completing a BA (Hons) in psychology and sociology at Sunderland Polytechnic.
Scientific work Hajek is the author of over 250 peer-reviewed papers, and has helped develop treatments for people who are dependent on cigarette smoking.
Early life and education Born to a middle-class family in Kapisa Province of Afghanistan, one of seven children, Jalāl moved to Kabul to attend high school.
Beginning in 1946, there he studied medicine at the University of Tübingen, defending his thesis on pharmacology in the same year.
Career Spelman makes regular appearances on TV and radio to discuss mental health issues, addiction, insomnia, sex, dating and relationships.
A short time later Menni attracted numerous followers to his cause and this allowed him to establish new institutions of his new order on a rapid scale, not only in Spain but also in Portugal and Mexico.
Born in Melbourne, Victoria, he attended Monash University 1972–76 and subsequently began practising as a psychiatric nurse.
Education Morse holds two bachelor's degrees from the University of Michigan in psychology and political science.
References External links The mental health establishment is failing trans kids (2021) by Laura Edwards-Leeper
He had a stammer himself, which influenced his lifelong pursuit of understanding the speech disorder and discovering a cure.
She previously served as Massachusetts Commissioner of Mental Health, President & CEO of the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and New Hampshire's Deputy Director and Acting Director of the Division of Mental Health and Developmental Services.
Kamiya stated that those who have firm ikigai would be those who realize their own mission, or purpose in life, and who are deliberately progressing toward their goals.
From 1968 to 1982 he was head of The Sufi Movement, a movement started by his grandfather and kept in the family.
"Beyond the Paradise myth: Sexuality and identity." Tangata o te moana nui: The evolving identities of Pacific peoples in Aotearoa/New Zealand (2001): 122–136.
This was a result of him attempting to find complementary treatment for an existing client who he was treating for drug addiction and devised a program specially for him after not being able to outsource aid.
When Minuchin first began to work as a family therapist, he wrote about enmeshed and disengaged families, which became an important component of structural family therapy.
College career At Nebraska Coach Bob Devaney labeled Newton as a lineman “who definitely should be considered as an All-American” and Bob delivered in 1970.
Batten also spread her ideas on feminism and art through her writing in the feminist magazine Broadsheet.
She moved to the University of Maryland, College Park for a postdoctoral position, before joining the University of Victoria as a Research Fellow.
It involves using special healing strategies and techniques to actively change sexual attitudes and behaviors that resulted from the abuse." "Healthy sex is something everyone deserves and can achieve." "Carpets can 'get laid' and bugs can 'have sex,' but 'making love' is something uniquely human.
Research Barry's research focuses on how health and social policies can affect a range of outcomes for individuals with mental illness and substance use and communities at risk for violence.
Gaffney has been the Director of the Doctoral Programme in Clinical Psychology in Trinity College Dublin and as adjunct professor of psychology and society in University College Dublin.
Rief was awarded the Distinguished International Affiliate, APA Division Health Psychology in 2014 and received a Distinguished Scientist Award from the International Society of Behavioral Medicine in 2014.
He leads the column Question of hormones within the Superquark program broadcast on Rai 1 together with Piero Angela.
Pasricha co-authored the 2011 book Making sense of near-death experiences, which was Highly Commended in the Psychiatry category at the 2012 British Medical Association Book Awards.
He is known for early controlled studies comparing psychotherapy vs pharmacotherapy for major depressive disorder.
Tryphena Anderson (born 1933) was a Jamaican-British nurse, the first black health visitor in the United Kingdom.
Psychanalyses, psychothérapies : les principales approches (2003) Comment survivre à sa propre famille ?
Introduction In addition to his role at Flinders University, Kyrios was previously a professor at the Australian National University and the director of its Research School of Psychology, and president of the Australian Psychological Society from 2014 to 2016.
2020 Order of Australia award Arndt was appointed a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) in the 2020 Australia Day Honours "for significant service to the community as a social commentator, and to gender equity through advocacy for men".
On the formation of the first court of examiners of the Apothecaries' Company, on the passing of the act, Burrows was appointed an examiner; but early in 1817 he resigned, owing to the unfair conduct of the court of assistants.
Whereas, his third novel Ship of Fools which was published in 2015, tells about mentally ill patients and the obstacles the doctor faces in a hospital that does not care about public health.
It seeks to uncover why things work as the do within groups, through the social, cultural and institutional dimensions within and outside of the group.
In 1979, they wrote Getting Together: A Guide to Sexual Enrichment for Couples which was wide-ranging and compassionate.
During that time he won five Connacht Senior Football Championship medals, as well as three All-Star awards: in 1978, 1980 and 1986.
Sections of the hospital once locked are now unlocked." During her service in Lahore she survived three bicycle accidents and a concussion, and contracted malaria and hepatitis.
Norman Knibbs, and the then Archbishop of Canterbury, Robert Runcie, met the bride in the doorway of the church.
His next career move was to the Australian National University in Canberra and, finally, to Flinders University in Adelaide where he maintained close links to the South Australian Health & Medical Research Institute.
She stressed that: "anything that two consenting adults do in the privacy of their bedroom or kitchen floor is all right with me".
Early life Edward Marriott Cooke was the eldest of the two children of Henry Edward Cooke of Harrow.
Since 1980, he has also worked at Prasanna Counselling Centre, where over one lakh individuals have received care.
Mary Bolton (16 September 1920 in County Donegal – 11 July 1996 in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh) was an Irish counsellor and (non-clinical) psychotherapist.
In 1985, he organized the first international nanbudo seminar in Croatia, which will continue to be organized yearly.
Johnson, Renee M.; Fairman, Brian; Gilreath, Tamika; Xuan, Ziming; Rothman, Emily F.; Parnham, Taylor; Furr-Holden, C.
Bibliography Non-fiction 1990: How to Stop Worrying, Sheldon (London), ISBN 978-1847090898 1992: Understanding Obsessions and Compulsions: A Self- Help Manual, Sheldon (London), ISBN 978-0859696524 1994: Worrying: Perspectives on Theory, Assessment, and Treatment (co-editor with Graham C.
Honours Donegal Ulster Senior Football Championship: 1972 Ulster Minor Football Championship: 1956 Dr McKenna Cup: 1963, 1965, 1967 Dr Lagan Cup: 1965, 1966, 1967 Donegal Senior Football Championship x5 Democrat Cup x3 == References ==
He made a second first-class appearance in 1959, against Leicestershire on Ireland's tour of England.
Through its emphasis on short-term behavioral goals, individualized counseling helps the patient develop coping strategies and tools to abstain from drug use and maintain abstinence.
He resigned in June 1816, as a result of scandal when he was accused of ‘wanting in humanity’ towards his patients.
Life 1916 May 25 Born as the 3rd son of Ihachi and Yukie Yoshimoto in Yamatokōriyama, Nara Prefecture.
The Liebermann novels have been adapted by Stephen Thompson into the BBC TV series Vienna Blood, which first aired in 2019.
During his diploma studies, Poulton worked as an interviewer for the Dunedin Study, helping Terrie Moffitt assess 13-year-old study participants.
Biography Born in Rome to Sri Lankan parents, who rejected her at the age of 17 after she told them she was gay and she became homeless as a result.
(E-Book 2018) INTAR – Das internationale Netzwerk für Alternativen und Recovery (together with Laurie Ahern & Peter Stastny).
Dr.Cameron joined the Mood and Anxiety Disorders Program at National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) as an investigator in 2001.
Despite his significant contribution in the field of mental health, today Coulmier is known primarily for his interactions with the Marquis de Sade, having been the asylum director when Sade was institutionalized.
After that period, Coulmier became the Director of the Charenton insane asylum, despite his lack of any professional degree in the field of medicine.
She was a two-term President of the American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists, and co-director of the Human Sexuality Center of Zucker Hillside Hospital.
Recognition The British Psychological Society identified Shapiro as one of the "influential clinicians" who created case formulation In 1984, the British Psychological Society honoured Shapiro by creating the M.B.
Its major differences are that it recognises that all coping reactions as being adaptive and functional that may initially reduce distress.
Biography He was professor of medical sexology at the University of L'Aquila and is full professor of endocrinology and medical sexology at the Faculty of Medicine, Department of Systems Medicine of the University of Rome Tor Vergata .
In recognizing her contributions in the field of nursing, in 1996, she was inducted into the American Nurses Association Hall of Fame.
Copeland Center for Wellness and Recovery The Copeland Center for Wellness and Recovery is a non-profit mental health organization that created and pioneered the use of the WRAP and other works developed by Copeland.
Professional life She worked with Martin Luitingh, who was a South African advocate involved in human rights work.
The resulting shift, if there is one, may be regarded as positive when the process has moved the personality to an increased capacity to contain such experiences and gain new perspectives.
She became known in Russia after appearing on an advertisement by the supermarket chain VkusVill along with her lesbian family.
He is known for his research into smoking cessation, including the effectiveness of electronic cigarettes for this purpose.
He practiced psychiatry in Denver and was the owner of Mount Airy Sanitarium (1927–1953), a private psychiatric hospital.
His current research includes several randomized controlled trials of different types of cognitive training with elderly, schizophrenic and ADHD patients.
President of the Swiss Society for Bipolar Disorders and as chapter leader of the International Society for Bipolar Disorders.
On 20 April 2010 Indermaur was a speaker at the Rally For Your Rights event, organized by Search For Your Rights, where he criticized stop and search laws.
Chandiramani is the author of a book on feminism and sexuality called Good Times for Everyone: Sexuality Questions, Feminist Answers.
Jorge Bucay (born October 30, 1949) is an Argentine gestalt psychotherapist, psychodramatist and writer.
In 1997 following the publication of Playful Approaches to Serious Problems Epston, along with his co-authors Dean Lobovits and Jennifer Freeman, initiated the website Narrative Approaches.
Hahm is active in spreading awareness to the general public, and has been invited as a panelist and presenter to various talks, both internationally and nationally.
Na Jong-ho (Korean: 나종호; born 1983), also known as Peter Jongho Na, is a South Korean psychiatrist and medical researcher.
A method of measuring psychological changes specific to the individual psychiatric patient, British Journal of Medical Psychology, Volume 34, Issue 2, pages 151–155.
Open Democracy said the speakers had "close links to proponents of anti-trans conversion therapies".
Maternity: Coming face to face with your own shadow References External links Official website (Spanish)
Her presentations, Expert Testimony in Cases of Child Sexual Abuse and Identification of Red Flag Sexual Grooming Behaviors: Implications for Practice, were offered live and are also available on demand.
Karl Pulotu-Endemann is a Samoan-born, New Zealand-based academic, nurse and fa'afafine and is called by Te Ara: The Encyclopedia of New Zealand "one of New Zealand's best-known and most honoured fa'afafine".
In 1969 she left for London and opened a practice and later an international teaching and training institute.
She suggested that premature ejaculation occurred if the subject did not have voluntary control over when he ejaculated, and that coitally anorgasmic women should not necessarily be thought of as having a problem.
Cotton was also a published poet, whose poems were described by Cheever as "full of good sense, benevolence, and piety" although not works of genius.
Awards Culbertson received the American Psychological Association Award for her Distinguished Contributions to the International Advancement of Psychology in 1994.
Collaborative and Indigenous Mental Health Therapy: Tātaihono: Stories of Māori Healing and Psychiatry, Routledge 2022: with Travis Heath and Tom Carlson.
While at Johns Hopkins, she went to become an assistant matron in 1912 and a nursing director at The Henry Phipps Psychiatric Clinic until 1920.
Jeglic presented her research findings identifying specific pre-offense behaviors linked to sexual grooming at the 23rd Annual Safe at Home Conference: Empowering Professionals, Championing Survivors, and Advancing Prevention Tactics in Family Violence October 10, 2023.
For that, the child is often penalized with deprivation of love – another layer gets built, again: The layer of adaption, whose characteristics are boredom, weariness, senselessness and depression.
Her 1995 dissertation was titled, Regulation of adult neurogenesis in the rat dentate gyrus by adrenal steroids and excitatory input.
He joined the Fife and Kinross District Asylum (built near Cupar in 1866 and now known as Stratheden Hospital) under Dr John Batty Tuke.
Befrienders assignments are chosen on the basis of ethnicity, gender (usually the same sex as the person requiring help), age and needs of the person requiring help.
She had her own consultation segment on the NHK Hiroshima radio program Hiroshima Koiraji (ひろしまコイらじ) from March 2021, and hosts the podcast Himeka Nakamoto's 'Na' on Nippon Cultural Broadcasting starting June.
Psychologist After he and his wife divorced he earned a doctorate in psychology and worked for the British National Health Service for a long time, taught clinical psychology and neuroscience at King's College London, and treated private patients.
Yuma Yuma (Russian: Юма Юма; born 1972), known simply as Yuma, is a Turkmen-born Russian psychotherapist and LGBT rights activist.
After the 1918 Armistice, Boylston remained in Europe working for the Red Cross for two years providing services to civilians in Albania, Poland, Russia, Italy, and Germany.
Perhaps in advance of her day she debated patient-advocacy, a 'consumer's voice', in the role nursing staff play in psychiatric care in 1983.
Extended lecture held to celebrate the 80th Birthday of Sigmund Freud in the Academic Association for Medical Psychology).
Thomas Hardy became acquainted with Procter's widow, their friendship is mentioned several times in The Early Life of Thomas Hardy (1840-1891).
(2023), 'Vaccine-preventable hospitalisations in adult mental health service users', Psych Medicine, 53, pp.
He later worked at University College Hospital, King George Hospital, Ilford, and in 1977 he became consultant psychotherapist at Runwell, Rochford and Basildon Hospitals.
The Cassel and Belmont hospitals Her introduction to nursing psychiatric patients in Leeds made her interested in modern psychological approaches to care of the mentally unwell.
She was a Peace Corps volunteer and museum curator in Kenya in the early 1970s, at the Kitale Museum and the Lamu Museum.
Edwards-Leeper has worked as a professor at the School of Graduate Psychology at the Pacific University.
She has written many books when discussing the field, and she serves as a lecturer at Stanford University Selected publications Fitzpatrick, Kathleen Kara; Darcy, Alison; Vierhile, Molly (2017).
"Antipsychotics, Other Psychotropics, and the Risk of Death in Patients With Dementia: Number Needed to Harm".
In 1985, he won another poetry competition with his poem called Scott’s first voyage, in a competition that was held by the Poetry Association of Scotland.
She also studies how communication strategies can increase public support for evidence-based policies to improve the health and wellbeing of people with mental illness and substance use disorders and reduce stigma.
Chua set up his medical practice in May 1976 after serving as a medical officer at the Batu Pahat Hospital.
Uzoma Asagwara () is a Canadian politician who has served as the 11th deputy premier of Manitoba and minister of health, seniors and long term care since 2023.
Shona Morrison is a Scottish politician who has been a Councillor on the Moray Council since 2017 as a member of the Scottish National Party (SNP).
In addition, she is a member and chair of the board of trustees in the diversity and unity committee and the school life committee at St.
He is visiting professor at Anglia Ruskin University, Canterbury Christchurch University, Chester University and King's College London, and vice president of the Institute of Customer Service.
She felt acute isolation: I wish I could be back home so bad it hurts, tears came into your eyes, because you missed the sort of freedom and companionship that you used to have, you know, with your own kind.
In 2021, Hahm became the first Asian American to be promoted to full professor at the Boston University School of Social Work.
In 2005, his second novel Tingling was banned for a while since he touched upon the Omani security services.
Starting out playing hurling for the Liam Mellows club, Flaherty went on to spend most of his inter-club days representing Ballinasloe in both hurling and football.
She graduated in 2009 with a degree in English Literature and Cinema Studies from the College of Arts & Science of the New York University.
Linden's Stress Management: From Basic Science to Better Practice book examined the literature on intervention implications, highlighting shortcomings such as the focus on individual rather than social aspects of stress and the omission of positive psychology.
Forty-five years later, Darwin pursued an identical argument in his The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals (1872), confiding in Alfred Russel Wallace that one of his main purposes was to discredit the slippery rhetoric of Sir Charles Bell.
Apart from the emphasis on gentle unloading through massage she also worked with Wilhelm Reich's vegetotherapy as well as the theories of Jung and Freud, and she continued to develop these into her own method of biodynamic vegetotherapy.
Ruth directed by Ryan White was in theaters, and was made available on Hulu, as she approached her 90th birthday.
He made a speech in support of the Act and the Prince Consort wrote to him afterwards, sending him the "best wishes for your total success".
As an early promoter of Neuro Linguistic Programming, he was the main motivating force behind the creation of the Association for Neuro Linguistic Programming.
With Sue Barton married to Bill Barry and expecting her first baby in Sue Barton: Superintendent Nurse, Boylston began a new series about another career woman, this time an actress, Carol Page.
She moved to the University of Leicester for her graduate studies, and earned a master's degree in criminology in 1996.
His work focuses particularly on the development of Black boys and youth, identifying key risk and protective factors that influence their emotional, academic, and social well-being.
Wells is the originator of metacognitive therapy, a new psychological treatment which is undergoing extensive evaluation in controlled trials.
The letter was published in the journal Intelligence in 2018, where he served on the editorial board.
Later, he read for a year at Trinity College, Cambridge, after which came a significant personal event: he left the Society of Friends to join the established Church of England.
Exploratory therapy, Genspect and SEGM O'Malley advocates for "exploratory therapy" in response to gender dysphoria and has written and testified about how some conversion therapy bills risk limiting access to exploratory therapy.
Ros Draper is a therapist, supervisor, teacher, and writer, and has made major contributions to the development of family therapy in Britain.
Jōdo Shinshū is a sect of Buddhism founded by Shinran, and it requires strong faith to Amida Budda solely, praying mantra "Namu-Amidabustu".
In 1983, Newton had brief playing experiences with the Boston Breakers and Chicago Blitz of the USFL, but his chemical dependency illness forced him to leave both teams.
Modern soefisme : over creatieve verandering en spirituele groei (Modern Sufism: On Creative Change and Spiritual Growth) (in Dutch).
In August 2024, they announced that going forward, prescription birth control would be fully covered under the Manitoba Pharmacare program at an estimated cost of $11 million dollars.
Louise Sharon Emanuel (10 December 1953 – 7 May 2017) was a pioneering child psychotherapist who developed new methods of accessing the inner world of the under fives.
Green retained his seat in the 1973 and 1976 local elections, but did not stand in the 1979 elections (when the seat was incorporated into a larger Crossgate and Framwelgate ward), and moved away from Durham around 1980.
She was married to Bernard Rush and is survived by son, Thomas, his two children, and daughter, Eleanor.
She enrolled in Actor's School Hiroshima as part of the 16th batch in 2006, joining Suzuka, who enrolled in the 15th batch the same year.
In The Sources of Love and Fear, he emphasised the importance of early influences (especially maternal) on later development.
Although I was used to the very small community, I just felt, if only this bus would stop, I would get off it and just run and hug him, and find out, you know, where he came from.
He ran the pathology laboratory which was transferred there, and treated shell shock patients during World War I.
College career Provence played for the South Carolina Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina from 1979 to 1982.
Taylor was also honored by Yale University with a Master of Arts and Keuka College with a Doctor of humane letters.
In addition to this, her research has been specifically funded by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the U.S.
The Hester Adrian Research Centre at the University of Manchester was established in 1968, to "conduct research into psychological and educational factors that affect the development of mentally handicapped children and adults".
Morrison has also served as the President of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (COSLA) since 2022.
John Hannigan (1938/9 – 22 April 2014) was an Irish Gaelic footballer who played for St Eunan's and the Donegal county team.
In the film, O'Malley states that she had called herself a boy until puberty, which she retroactively considers gender dysphoria and believes would have led her to transition if born later, but felt comfortable as a girl after puberty.
Her father's work as a United Nations economist moved the family from Ireland to Zimbabwe when she was a young child.
After completing an MBBS (including an internship), they can attend various PG medical entrance exams and get a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) in psychiatry, which is a 3-year course.
Later in her career, she served as a visiting scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta.
She has said about her profession: "People have asked me over the years, 'How do you work with people who are differently abled?' I always say, it's not hard for me.
This was a review by six scientists from several countries who looked at the available literature to investigate the phenomena known as the G-Spot.
Peplau determined that there are two categories that the teaching role consists of: Instructional and experimental.
She has been a trustee for the Post Abortion Counselling Service (PACS) a regional committee member of the Family Planning Association and is presently assisting Ataxia UK.
It was awarded the 1998 British Psychological Society Book Award for significant contributions to psychology and remains a definitive text in this field, recently being reprinted for a 20th anniversary edition.
She opposed the ratification of the Treaty of Nice in the 2002 referendum, and the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon in both referendums.
(2007) "Adolescent Exposure to Recurrent Terrorism in Israel: Posttraumatic Distress and Functional Impairment".
Biography Mitchell was born in 1921 in Coatesville, Pennsylvania and grew up in Wilmington, Delaware.
He was one of the Metropolitan Commissioners in Lunacy from 1842 to 1845 and was then appointed the first Secretary to the successor body, the Commissioners in Lunacy, in 1845: he became one of the three Legal Commissioners in 1855.
Career Upon graduating from Johns Hopkins, Taylor remained at the hospital and began teaching in 1909.
Burns worked for 31 years at the Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences Department at Duke University until her retirement in June 2020.
David wrote the self-help book Emotional Agility, which was published with Penguin Random House in 2016.
He worked as a NHS clinical psychologist in Yorkshire for six years before accepting a position as a research clinical psychologist at the University of Oxford in 1985.
Whilst working as a nurse, she studied for an MSc in health and social research at the University of Northumbria, and for seven years she held a clinical lectureship at Newcastle University.
Marylou Sudders is an American former government official who served as Secretary of Health and Human Services of Massachusetts from January 8, 2015 to January 5, 2023.
Keegan also won a National Football League medal in 1979, though injury prevented him from playing against Cork in the final.
He subsequently qualified as a member of the Royal College of Physicians, and a member of the British Medical Association.
In 1792 he became Principal Physician as successor to his father, while he also inherited his father's private asylum at Brooke House in Clapton.
Basic Edition, Basel 1998, ISBN 3-9521250-3-2 Heute wurde uns eine Tochter geboren (with Danièle Nicolet) Im Irrgarten der Lust.
Intelligence and education A 2007 study by Rindermann found a high correlation between the results of international student assessment studies including TIMSS, PIRLS, and PISA, and national average IQ scores.
In 2021, as a member of the Council's committee on equalities, Morrison supported flying the Pride flag at the council's offices in Elgin, and at Secondary Schools around Moray.
He was a third round draft selection of the Chicago Bears and was moved from offensive tackle to guard his rookie year.
In 1974, Bensing started as a researcher at the Dutch Institute for General Practice (Dutch: Nederlands Huisartsen Instituut).
He qualified as a clinical psychologist in 1979 at the Institute of Psychiatry of King's College London and the Maudsley Hospital.
Interim appointments On 9 November 2016, the Medway NHS Foundation Trust announced Carter had been appointed interim chair, whilst a new chair was appointed on a permanent basis.
School and university years Like most Black South Africans of her generation who were active in student politics, both her high-school and university years were interrupted by expulsions, student protests and closure of universities.
She is the May Endowed Professor in Neuropsychology and chair of psychological science and clinical psychology at the University of Hong Kong.
He did not hold office again until February 1852, when he was made Secretary at War in the first administration of Lord John Russell.
"Psychosocial and medical predictors of 14-year mortality and morbidity in male and female coronary artery bypass graft recipients: a prospective observational study".
This study demonstrated that smokers who used e-cigarettes to help them quit were 83% more likely to have quit smoking at one year than those who used conventional nicotine replacement therapy.
Spillane, quoted in the book Princes of Pigskin, said of this tactic later: "There was no belting but the plot was to sing the National Anthem as loud as we could into their ears to put the fear of God into them.
He was the author of Old Thinking, New Thinking: The Sufi Prism (1979) and, published in Dutch, Modern soefisme: over creatieve verandering en spirituele groei (Modern Sufism: On Creative Change and Spiritual Growth) (1992).
Observations Professor Altschul observed the effects when patients were moved to smaller accommodations during the redecoration of the large wards at Dingleton Hospital in the Scottish Borders.
She is the host of the long-running podcast Sex with Emily and is also known for her 2012 recurring reality television appearance in Bravo's series Miss Advised (2012).
From 1862 to 1870 he was living in Lochgilphead as medical superintendent of Argyll District Asylum.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Boase, George Clement (1891).
Jeglic's work has been cited in The New York Times, The Associated Press, and Time Magazine, and others.
He was Principal Physician of the Bethlem Royal Hospital and one-time consulting physician to George III.
He delivered the Harveian oration in 1847, was elected physician to the Middlesex Hospital on 17 August 1815 and held office till April 1827.
Handbook of Drug and Alcohol Studies, SAGE 2016 Growing up with risk, edited by Betsy Thom, Rosemary Sales and Jenny Pearce, Policy Press 2007 == References ==
Our country has added nine states to the framework of our Federal Union, and buttressed its Constitution with armor plated Amendments whose necessity had never been contemplated.
Awards He was awarded the Sultan Qaboos Medal for Literature and Arts in 2007 He won the "Beirut 39" festival in 2009.
Career Forster began his career as a house surgeon at the Birmingham Accident Hospital, in the West Midlands of England, in 1943.
Exploitation Phase / Working Phase During the Working Phase, the nurse and the patient work to achieve the patient's full potential, and meet their goals for the relationship.
Magazine that there was no pressure that time, as she was not providing a much awaited son and heir.
His academic background includes training in South Korea and the United States, with clinical and research affiliations at institutions such as the Mayo Clinic, New York University, and Yale University.
As a result of public outcry, the company's management removed the ad from their website and social networks and apologized for their mistake.
Connolly said the Irish government had been "dragging their feet" in imposing its planned sanctions against Israel, urging it not to water down the sanctions under pressure from US corporate interests.
The Influence of Family Experience on Borderline Personality Development (1989), Foundations of Object Relations Family Therapy.
She became increasingly aware that to combine technology and psychology she would have to do it outside academia, so left to start her own company.
After Cohen-Greene graduated from Salem High School, she attended the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco.
She is a professor of preventive medicine, psychology, and psychiatry at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and directs the Institute for Public Health and Medicine's Center for Behavior and Health.
there was no possibility of giving [CN] continuity," Rek recalled, "there was no vision to make it perpetuate." Seeing this, Rek was one of the first members to go.
Biography After earning bachelor's and master's degrees in nursing and a doctorate in sociology, Smoyak became a faculty member at Rutgers University.
While in Sri Lanka, she had a job on the radio but was dismissed in a dispute over her sexual orientation.
While this theory has formidably influenced research and practice, Shahar and others have observed that, empirically, the self-critical dimension confers much more vulnerability than the dependent dimension.
On 2 May 1895, the Fort Wayne Weekly Gazette published a follow-up quoting William Greer as reaffirming the accuracy of the story, and describing Dr.
Haslam's case study of James Tilly Matthews is the earliest detailed description of paranoid schizophrenia.
From 1940 to 1941 Gibson served as a full-time Director of the Children's Overseas Reception Board, responsible for evacuating British children overseas.
For Poulton's father's work, the family moved from Christchurch to Wellington, and then to Auckland.
See also Attachment theory Child development Culture of Narcissism Healthy narcissism Narcissism == References ==
Satwant Pasricha was the head of Department of Clinical Psychology at NIMHANS, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences at Bangalore.
He has also developed with others a widely used method for frontal lobe impairment known as Goal Management Training.
He was a major contributor to the modern scientific theory of personality and helped find treatment for mental illnesses.
Anne Hooper (born 1941) is a British sex therapist and author, who pioneered therapy groups for women with sex problems in the 1970s and 1980s and who wrote UK newspaper columns on the subject of human sexuality in the 1990s.
More recently, during her third run for the Office of President in 2019, Dr Jalāl boldly critiqued extremism and the violations of human rights and women's rights in the national and international media.
In this period, she gave lectures and started writing on what she referred to as the "new phenomenon" she witnessed while serving on the TRC's Human Rights Violations Committee – forgiveness of the unforgivable.
She has also been an advocate of socially progressive causes and has campaigned for a yes vote in the Irish divorce referendum and the marriage equality referendum.
In April 2012, the court convicted Bakker of sexual abuse and sentenced him to five years imprisonment and a ten-year prohibition from executing his profession as a mental health practitioner.
After completing his studies in psychology and medicine in South Korea, he pursued psychiatric residency training in the United States, including at the Mayo Clinic and New York University.
Positions held include Senior Clinical Lecturer at the Tavistock Clinic, London, Chair for the Institute of Family Therapy, and Birkbeck College, University of London MSc in a Systemic Approach to Management, Coaching and Consultation.
During the years 1999–2000, Shahar served on the faculty of Bar-Ilan University in Israel and received post-doctoral research training in the Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry at Yale University, under the tutelage of Sidney J.
Educated there in St Mary's High School the Presentation Convent, she was the first in her family to go to university and she graduated with a BA in psychology from the University College Cork.
Biography Early life and education He received his doctoral degree in clinical psychology from The New School for Social Research, where he was editor of The New School Psychology Bulletin from 2012 to 2013.
Crimes In 2002, a technician from a telephone company, who was helping a colleague repair a telephone line, was surprised to see a large square-shaped trash bag next to the pole in a rubbish dump.
Career David founded the management consulting firm Evidence Based Psychology in 1999 and serves as its CEO.
After moving to New York City, Butts joined the Planned Parenthood's Board of Directors, through which she met sex researchers Masters and Johnson in the 1970s.
Cotton specialised in the care of patients with mental health issues, maintaining an asylum known as the Collegium Insanorum, at St Albans.
In 2019 Harden Bradford developed an online therapist directory due to high demand for recommendations of Black women therapists.
Many providers are completely missing that step." In an article published on the Washington Post, Edwards-Leeper said that she opposed state bans on gender-related treatment for minors, but warned that some American providers were skipping comprehensive assessments and "hastily dispensing medicine".
Within the framework of the federation, he headed two projects that were financed by the European Erasmus Programme.
Sleepwalking Stallman led a series of studies understanding the science of sleepwalking including the prevalence, treatments, medication-induced sleepwalking and violence during sleepwalking.
From 2006 the lecture has been the occasion for the presentation of a Lifetime Achievement Award, with recipients including Jo Brand, Helen Bamber, Shirley Smoyak and Malcolm Rae.
From there she complete a post-doctoral fellowship at Yale University School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry from 1998–1999.
She is also the recipient of the 2003 Soros Reproductive Health and Rights Fellowship from Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health.
As a young woman she was part of an abusive relationship, but was able to complete her studies at night.
He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of New Zealand in 2010, and was named a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to science and health research, in the 2017 Queen's Birthday Honours.
In 2020 the shelter has 500 animals of all kinds and is Pakistan's first animal shelter for street and homeless dogs, cats and different animals in Pakistan.
Keegan made his debut for Roscommon in 1972 in a league game against Kilkenny, and was a regular member of the starting fifteen until his retirement in 1988.
Education and career Curtis graduated with a Bachelor of Medicine, and Bachelor of Surgery from the University of New South Wales.
She earned a master's degree in English literature at Radcliffe College in 1932, and completed doctoral studies in human development at the University of Chicago in 1953.
He was also part of a multi-state study assessing the quality and outcomes of public pre-kindergarten programs.
1992-2011 he served as an expert member of the Psychotherapy Advisory Council of the Austrian Federal Ministry for Health.
Na emphasizes structural and public health approaches to mental illness, particularly in the context of South Korea's high suicide rate.
In her later years, in her practice Zussman often saw people much younger than herself; at age 99 she had patients in their twenties.
Euphemia Jane "Effie" Taylor (April 18, 1874 — May 20, 1970) was a Canadian nurse who became the president of the International Council of Nurses from 1937 to 1947.
She made a documentary about gender dysphoria in children for Channel 4, and is the founder of Genspect, a self-described gender critical organisation opposed to gender affirming care.
He then worked as a clinical psychologist in London and Manchester before taking up a joint NHS/University post in Exeter directing the training programme in clinical psychology at the University of Exeter.
Selected publications Kales, Helen C.; Kim, Hyungjin Myra; Zivin, Kara; Valenstein, Marcia; Seyfried, Lisa S.; Chiang, Claire; Cunningham, Francesca; Schneider, Lon S.; Blow, Frederic C.
A "megafeature" cut of the entire miniseries was aired on Channel Four television in the UK in December 2005.
Ger Lynch (born 10 December 1958) is an Irish former Gaelic footballer who played as a wing back at senior level for the Kerry county team.
She has worked with Southern African AIDS Trust as a motivational speaker and became a Mandela Washington Fellow in 2017.
Dr Ratnavale had his primary and secondary education in Trinity College, Kandy where he won The Ryde Gold Medal for the best all round boy in 1947.
From 1962 to 1964, Altschul served on the Platt Committee on Nursing Education, for the Royal College of Nursing (RCN),.
She serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of Sandy Hook Promise, an organization that seeks to protect children from gun violence.
His mother was Silesian-born film star Helga Molander, and his father, Eduard Anton Eysenck, was an actor and nightclub entertainer who was once voted the "handsomest man on the Baltic coast".
The Maudsley Hospital in London was Mott's idea, inspired by Emil Kraepelin's clinic in Germany, and Mott conducted the negotiations for its funding and construction.
In 2013, she joined The Child and Family Practice, a multidisciplinary, independent clinic in London, and in 2016, she co-founded the London Intercultural Couple Centre at The Child and Family Practice.
Laura Gutman, born in 1958 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, is a therapist specializing in maternity psychology.
The facility offered drug abuse counseling, nutrition information, prenatal education, immunizations, and parenting education.
From there, he matriculated at the University of Edinburgh Medical School to read medicine, later moving to University of Stirling to read psychology.
She denied that Barton herself was an autobiographical portrait, saying "I made her up, lock, stock and barrel.
Shapiro Award, to honour a British psychologist each year who has achieved eminence in their contributions to the field.
From 2000 to 2004, she initiated and developed a process of developing the organisation of the Protestant Church of the Augsburg Confession, together with Michael Bünker, then director of the Religionspädagogische Akademie, and Thomas Krobath from the Kirchliche Pädagogische Hochschule Wien/Krems.
She was active in the British Psychological Society, of which he was elected president in 2008, and also the European Federation of Psychology Associations.
Rek was raised in her birth town of San José de Chiquitos alongside five siblings as well as a few rural girls her parents hosted.
His practice grew quickly because of Combe's personal qualities – his ability to listen, and his exceptional professional courtesy.
Views In an interview with Salon.com, he said "The sex-addiction concept is a belief system, not a diagnosis; it’s not a medically supported concept.
He played as corner forward in the final of the 1956 Ulster Minor Football Championship, which Donegal won.
He also translated into English verse the medieval Latin text of Regimen sanitatis Salernitanum, the medical encyclopedia of the Scuola Medica Salernitana.
In 1979, Berkowitz examined adolescent individuation in his article The disturbed adolescent and his family: problems of separation-individuation in the family system, offering a psychodynamic model for understanding developmental challenges in family contexts.
Raghavan is a tenured professor of psychology at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and the CUNY Graduate Center.
In 2021, she was appointed Vice-Chancellor and led UNIBE's efforts in creating its first Research and Innovation Hub.
She was Editor-In-Chief at the Taylor & Francis journal Drugs: Education, Prevention and Policy for over 20 years.
In 2008 she founded the Watson Caring Science Institute, an NGO that aims to advance Watson's work on Caring Theory.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorders and other psychiatric outcomes in very low birthweight children at 12 years.
She has suggested that rape is not always violent and has said that most children do not incur long-term damage from sexual assault.
Political career Green was aged 31 at the time of his election to the Crossgate seat, and had stood for election to the council twice before.
Steven Taylor is an Australian clinical psychologist and professor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of British Columbia in Canada.
Dąbrowski's idea of the "autonomous individual" may be compared to the characterization advanced by Kierkegaard of his "Knights of faith".
Since 2005, Tallis has been writing crime novels, published under the rubric of the Liebermann Papers and set in Vienna around the beginning of the 20th century.
Personal life Davis enjoyed traveling, and mentioned in a 1977 newspaper profile that she had visited all fifty United States, with further trips to the Caribbean, the United Kingdom, Europe, and the Middle East.
Alongside academic roles, Dhami has held positions in two prisons, where she studied the process of mediation in prisons.
The Cassel Hospital by Ham Common, London had a reputation for treating patients in a therapeutic environment and she moved there in 1948 to follow their recently developed course in psychosocial treatment and nursing for nervous disorders.
De la Macorra describes being friends with Luis Felipe Macias since she was the one who offered her the job of production assistant at Televisa, and with Paco Peña, who described being a close friend.
La Philosophie de la folie (The philosophy of madness), 1804, Second edition dedicated to Philippe Pinel.
Hannigan played for Donegal in the 1964–65 National Football League semi-final against Kerry, scoring 1–0.
He was first attached to RAF Technical Training Command, before transferring to the RAF Police with whom he served in Germany.
At its core, Naikan is a method of structured self reflection based around three basic questions - What have I received from____?
Together with her colleague, Germán Antelo, Rek sought to build the foundations of a new political party, but opposition infighting caused the project to flounder.
His role as Commissioner of Lunacy was based at 51 Queen Street and he lived at 13 Heriot Row which faces that building across Queen Street Gardens.
She is an advocate for inclusive education in the Dominican Republic and was UNESCO Chair on Social and Academic Inclusion for People with Disabilities and Special Education Needs at UNIBE from 2013 to 2017.
She is co-founder of iphYs, an international working group which advocates for improved physical health outcomes for young people who experience mental health conditions such as psychosis.
Several state legislatures have recently moved towards laws regarding stealthing because of experts' recommendations, including Massachusetts, New Jersey, and California.
In December 1952, a week after leaving school, she sailed for England, arriving in Liverpool on the RMS Franconia from New York.
He was married twice, first in 1738 to Anne Pembroke, with whom he had eight children, six of whom survived past infancy and one, Joseph Cotton, who became a director of the Honourable East India Company.
From 2018 to 2020, Salkovskis served as the president of the British Association for Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies.
Awards In 2004, the award for Anthropological and Humanistic Psychology by the Margrit-Egnér-Foundation.
In December 2019, the Dublin GAA county committee appointed Farrell as manager of the Dublin senior county footballers for a three-year term, succeeding Jim Gavin.
He holds the positions of Visiting Professor at University College London, Bangor University, University of Wales, and Visiting Scientist at the Rotman Research Institute, University of Toronto on year 1995.
She is author of the popular psychology book Adler for Beginners and an innovative work on the links between evolutionary psychology and sexual function in Sex: the Manual aka How Was It For You?
Connolly said she assessed Ní Shionnain's suitability through recommendations from prison visiting committees and politicians familiar with her background, and that she understood Ní Shionnain had rehabilitated herself and was no longer active in Éirígí.
in neuroscience from the Rockefeller University, where she worked with Bruce McEwen and Elizabeth Gould examining neurogenesis in the adult rat dentate gyrus.
OCLC 1083224946.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Other "Smash Cash", Oz, issue 17 (December 1968) Smash Cash.
Having joined the Labor Party in 1976, he became a trade union official in 1981, and in 1980 became a City of Heidelberg councillor, serving until 1982.
In 1907 the London Council, as the largest user of Reformatories, resolved to end its contract with the National Institutions.
The show was well-reviewed and made additional international festival headlines when it became known the performers were staying at old Second World War base and Cold War nuclear bunker, Barnton Quarry due to the inflated costs of reasonable accommodations during that time of year in Edinburgh.
She was appointed Director of the Forensic Mental Health Counseling Program and Coordinator of Victimology Studies in Forensic Psychology.
Burns created the first federal initiatives in children's mental health services research at the National institute of Mental Health in the late 1980s.
He went on to complete a Master of Arts in Counseling at New York University, followed by a Master of Science in Psychology and a Ph.D.
The first to be published was On the Effects of Injuries of the Brain upon the Manifestations of the Mind, read on 9 January 1823.
He specialized in neuropsychiatry and psychotherapy and spent several years for further professional training in Germany, Switzerland and France.
"Pediatrician-Parent Conversations About Human Papillomavirus Vaccination: An Analysis of Audio Recordings".
Ong and Chua both refused to resign, and united under a "greater unity plan," putting their differences aside temporarily.
They had three children, Phillip Kaplan, Peter Kaplan, and Jennifer Kaplan-D'Addio, before divorcing in 1968.
He was offered no support and, already a regular drug user, the diagnosis led to a period of self-destruction including alcohol and drug addiction.
Following his retirement from Flinders University in 2021, he undertook a period of overseas travel, and in 2023 began working with the Australian Educational Management Group (AEMG) where he now holds the position of Vice President (Quality and Compliance) and Chair of the Academic Senate.
Smoyak was appointed to oversee reform efforts at Greystone Park Psychiatric Hospital in New Jersey.
Life Liz Campbell was born in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1954 where she graduated from the University of Edinburgh.
A Human Being Died That Night nominated for Best Book of the Year by the National Book Critics Circle, 2004.
References External links Official website Faculty page Steven Taylor publications indexed by Google Scholar
He was a figure in reform of the mental health system in the United States during the mid-19th century.
Early life and education Harvey completed her clinical training at Macquarie University and her PhD at the University of New South Wales, both in Sydney, Australia.
Biography Sara Elizabeth Parsons was born on April 24, 1864, in Northborough, Massachusetts, United States.
The miracle required for his beatification was investigated in a diocesan tribunal and its validity ratified on 3 December 1982.
Career From 1898 to 1914, he was one of the Commissioners in Lunacy, a UK public body established by the Lunacy Act 1845 to oversee the asylums and the general welfare of the mentally ill.
Second Thoughts on the Theory and Practice of the Milan Approach to Family Therapy (The Systemic Thinking and Practice Series) (1st ed.).
Biography Ernst was born in London to Jewish parents from Palestine who trained as doctors and worked with children from concentration camps.
"Psychotherapy for depression: a randomized clinical trial comparing schema therapy and cognitive behavior therapy".
Holmes is part of a research team aimed at developing inexpensive yet effective therapies to help refugees recover from PTSD and other trauma-related psychological disorders.
Rief was awarded the Alison Creed Award by the European Association of Psychosomatic Medicine in 2020.
Additionally, she has co-led collaborative research grants, such as a City University of New York Collaborative Grant on The economics of sex crime policy and the reduction of sexual recidivism (2012) and studies on sex offender recidivism funded by the Forensic Psychology Research Institute.
Bolest i stvaranje: patografske studije (Illness and Creation: Phatographic Studies), Beogradski izdavačko-grafički zavod, Belgrade 1976.
His cousin was Krystyna Skarbek, who worked for British secret services (the Special Operations Executive) during the Second World War.
She settled in London, and worked as a scientific administrator at the Natural Environment Research Council.
William Cullen (; 15 April 1710 – 5 February 1790) was a Scottish physician, chemist and agriculturalist from Hamilton, Scotland, who also served as a professor at the Edinburgh Medical School.
During the divorce proceedings, the Countess did not attend her former sister-in-law Diana's funeral in September 1997, as she continued her recovery treatment and stayed with her children in Cape Town, where she began a four-year relationship with a local pharmacist.
Haward successfully led a campaign to allow psychologists to testify as experts in court in England; previously only medically qualified persons were allowed to testify on the "mental functioning of witnesses or defendants".
(He would later marry actress Nancy Barrett.) In addition, she was survived not only by her children, but also by both her second husband Toys "R" Us founder Charles Lazarus and her grandchildren Alexander D'Addio and Wildon Kaplan.
Poulton then took a position as a clinical psychologist at Long Bay Jail, treating people at risk of suicide.
McIntosh has also led research on how Christchurch residents coped with the Christchurch earthquakes, and how to stay well in times of stress and uncertainty.
Cléaz, 369 pages Tributes and awards Member of the Academy of Sciences, Humanities and Arts of Lyon Member of the Agricultural Society of Turin Permanent Secretary of the Agricultural Society of Chambéry Correspondent of the Royal Society of Medicine in Paris, which awarded J.
ISBN 9783756209064 Grundkonzepte der Gestalttheoretischen Psychotherapie, Wien: Krammer 2024, ISBN 978 3 901811 82 1 M.
Life Haslam was born in London, and trained as an apothecary at the United Borough Hospitals, and (briefly) in Edinburgh where he attended medical classes in 1785 and 1786.
In his presidential address he emphasised the need psychologists to realise that the discipline is not only a natural science but also a social and interpretive science and for this reason it should develop its own methods of inquiry.
His approach to accompanying people is psychological as well as spiritual, a theme that is extensively developed in his book ‘Vivir en el alma”.
Eugênio Chipkevitch (born April 26, 1954) is a Ukrainian-born Brazilian former physician and psychotherapist, convicted of sexually abusing adolescent patients at the "Paulista Adolescents Institute" at São Paulo.
Clark Hull I David Indermaur J Kay Redfield Jamison Arthur Janov, invented primal therapy Elizabeth Jeglic Mary Cover Jones Carl G.
At the same inaugural event, former Kerry footballer Séamus Moynihan was elected Secretary, former Clare hurler Jamesie O'Connor was elected president and Ciarán McArdle was elected treasurer.
Ratnavale graduated from the University of Ceylon and in 1973 was the first Western-trained psychiatrist invited to China.
Early life Jaman is a third-generation British Bangladeshi who grew up in a traditional Bangladeshi household in Portsmouth and left school at the age of 16 with GCSEs and had an arranged marriage at 17.
The Whigs fell from office in November of that year, but returned already in April 1835, when Vernon was appointed Secretary of the Board of Control by Melbourne, which he remained until 1839.
She originally attended Mississippi Valley State University, but transferred to Tougaloo College after being arrested and briefly incarcerated for her participation in civil rights activism at MVSU.
She later worked with refugees and internally displaced communities in the West Bank, Gaza, Iraq and Lebanon, which included work as a volunteer EMT with ambulance services.
"Karl Marx: Das Kapital: From Capitalist Exploitation to Communist Revolution" Great Economic Thinkers (sound recording, 1988).
The session occurred around 12 hours after the GAA sent a note to each club and county, warning that any club or county team ignoring the collective training ban could risk putting the GAA's intentions to return to action "in serious jeopardy".
This can lead to an intense "internal battle," where the drive to continue the addictive behavior clashes with the longing to regain control over their action.
Altschul had taken a sabbatical in 1961–62, visiting the United States, funded by a British Commonwealth for Nurses Scholarship Fund to explore psychiatric nurse education and practices, which influenced her thinking.
Career Johnson was an assistant professor at the Boston University School of Public Health from 2009 to 2013.
She received her Doctorate in Clinical Psychology at Royal Holloway University of London in 2000, under the supervision of Chris Brewin.
She was also subsequently awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco.
At the same time, she also advised the promoter of the Sexual Freedom Ball to fund Outsiders, and the organisers of the fundraiser, The Erotic Awards, now called The Sexual Services and Entertainment Awards.
Kinsey held a workshop on the topic of The Dynamics of the Narcissistic Personality in the Context of Coercive Control at America's Conference To End Coercive Control.
Kaupas especially enjoyed local impressionist art exhibits and Lithuanian artists such as Kajetonas Sklėrius, Vytautas Kariukštis, Alfonsas Krivickas, and Vytautas Kasiulis.
Rush's paper at the time was the first challenge to Freudian theories of children as the seducers of adults rather than the victims of adults' sexual/power exploitation.
A paper by Browne on Mad Artists was published in 1880 in the Journal of Psychological Medicine and Mental Pathology, setting out his views on mental illness and the effect it had on established artists.
David Nesaraja Ratnavale (1928 – November 29, 2023) was a Sri Lankan-born psychiatrist who specialized in disaster relief on which he advised the Sri Lankan president.
She has won the Research award of the Australasian Society for Intellectual Disability four times since 1993.
They invited her to their Reproductive Biology Research Foundation (later the Masters and Johnson Institute) in St.
In 1999, he published Reversing the Negative Cycle: Interpreting the Mutual Influence of Adaptive Self-Protective Measures in the Couple in The Psychoanalytic Quarterly, where he analyzed how early object-relational dynamics influence intimate relationships.
References External links Professor Mike Kyrios AEMG Governance Top Scholars by Expertise Mike Kyrios – AIFE Prof Mike Kyrios
In 2010, Hughes became a clinical psychotherapist, providing individual psychotherapy and workshops in private clinical practice.
Boyesen lived and worked in different, mostly European, countries, however, her work influenced body psychotherapy worldwide.
In 2002, he became fellow of the Swiss Medical Federation (FMH, Specialist Accrediting Board of Switzerland).
Publications and research He has authored more than 70 peer-reviewed articles in national and international journals and has contributed extensively to public awareness through books and articles in Kannada and English.
Life The son of Robert Southey (1745–1792) by his wife, Margaret Hill (1752–1802), and younger brother of Robert Southey, the poet, he was born in Bristol on 18 January 1784.
As the SNP group's co-leader Morrison became Moray Council Convenor, the Council's first female Convenor.
He co-chairs the ICD-11 Working Group on "Classification of Chronic Pain" which initiated a new classification of chronic pain in WHO´s classification system ICD-11 (since 2013).
Literary works À ses Concitoyens (de vaccine...), 13 pages Analyse des eaux thermales d'Aix en Savoye (Thermal waters analysis of Aix in Savoy), 1772, published by F.
During the campaign he openly identified himself as gay and as a member of the Gay Liberation Front, and in an interview with Gay News he reported that his sexuality had been extensively covered in the press and had attracted negative comments from opponents.
He later returned to his alma mater of Liverpool to work as a lecturer, after a brief stint working for the National Health Service as a forensic clinical psychologist.
At the time of her death, she was professor emerita of Psychology at the University of Wisconsin—Whitewater.
Hetherington (1917 – 23 February 2000) was a British clinical psychologist who for a period was General Secretary of the British Psychological Society.
Holmes received her PhD in Cognitive Neuroscience at the Cambridge University in 2005, mentored by Andrew Mathews.
Andrea Miller conducted a study published in the Journal of Sex Research that concluded men in heterosexual relationships were often dissatisfied with the length of foreplay and intercourse.
In 1875, he was called in to adjudicate whether a man, who was under sentence of death for murder, was insane.
A versatile player, Hannigan began his career in midfield but played everywhere from corner back to corner-forward.
It has been extensively studied and reviewed, and is now an evidence-based practice, listed in the SAMSHA National Registry of Evidence-Based Programs and Practices (NREPP).
His work has informed the areas of social anxiety disorder, generalised anxiety disorder, trauma reactions (such as post-traumatic stress disorder), obsessive–compulsive disorder and depression.
Brand has said that she drank heavily before her first gig, was heckled throughout, and received no applause at the end of the set.
Rush was also concerned about women's role definitions and expectations within families as author of “Women in the Middle”, the first article about sandwich generation women taking care of both children and elderly relatives, published in Notes from the Third Year and Radical Feminism.
Maltz has been a keynote presenter, speaker and workshop presenter at psychology and sexuality conferences in the United States, Canada, and New Zealand.
Minuchin once wrote of Haley as his most important teacher, a man who was "forever pushing the envelope, testing the limits of new ideas" to challenge Minuchin and himself.
References https://www.adpc.net/training/special/ch_24062002.html https://businesstoday.lk/a-disaster-is-a-political-event/
In 2014, Asagwara founded Queer People of Colour Winnipeg, a Winnipeg-based project which aims to promote the rights and safety of LGBTQ people of colour in the city.
Her research considers decision making strategies and the factors that influence perceptions of risk.
He then took up a joint academic/clinical appointment with the University of Liverpool and the United Liverpool Hospitals.
He was said by the Health Service Journal to be the 28th most powerful person in the English NHS in December 2013.
Botting and her colleagues have studied nonverbal cognitive abilities in children with language impairment using longitudinal designs.
Robertson did not publish widely but his achievements with enlightened asylum administration attracted professional admiration across Europe.
Political career Opposition In the 2019 Manitoba general election, Asagwara was elected to represent the Union Station electoral district.
Tatia Mei Chun Lee (Chinese: 李湄珍) is a Hong Kong clinical psychologist specializing in neuropsychology and human neuroscience.
Outbreaks of divine existence, which give meaning to the characters' lives, are central to his novels.
Oscar Anthony Barbarin is a clinical psychologist and academic whose research explores the effects of race and adversity on child development.
Since 2022 she has been UNESCO Chain on gender studies, focusing her research on Dominican women's leadership and wellbeing.
In his position of Director at ICTP, he has brought his expertise to the fields of education, community resilience, health and mental health care to increase the capacity of Israeli society to cope with the ongoing existential threat.
In 1982, he moved to England, where he joined the Institute of Psychiatry's Addiction Research Unit.
On September 21, 2021 Sudders was added as a defendant to a lawsuit relating to the deaths of 83 people at the Holyoke Soldiers Home that died from incompetence at the facility that Sudders oversaw.
When Taylor proposed the book to his publisher at the time, they rejected the book, telling him that the subject seemed interesting, but that nobody would want to read the book.
A new addition to the Psychiatric Hospital was added in 1998 and named "the Jane Mitchell building." In March 2000, Mitchell was inducted into the Hall of Fame of Delaware Women.
He played a key role in formulating and implementing the National Mental Health Programme in 1982 and developed the Bellary model of the District Mental Health Programme (DMHP), which is now implemented in over 400 districts across India.
Inspired by a miscarriage of justice, he also delivered the first lectures on forensic medicine in Britain, and campaigned to establish a chair of medical jurisprudence at the University of Edinburgh.
Lazarus, early writer in CBT Richard Lazarus Tatia Lee Harriet Lerner Marsha Linehan, founder of dialectical behavior therapy M Isaac Marks Paul R.
Suicide prevention Stallman developed the world's first consumer-centred approach to supporting people who were upset or who had suicidal thoughts, Care Collaborate Connect.
Being a psychotherapist, Father Rami Elias participated in the organization of weekly psychodrama sessions in Damascus at the start of the Syrian crisis in 2011 which aimed to create an open space for people from different tendencies and faiths to meet and express their fear.
The Core–shell model (Kern-Schalen-Modell) The basic assumptions of this theory is, that during a person’s development, “emotional layers” grow around the “essential core” of his mind.
Sir Edward Marriott Cooke KBE (1852 – 17 October 1931) was a British doctor and Commissioner in Lunacy from 1898 to 1914, and a Commissioner of the Board of Control for Lunacy and Mental Deficiency.
However, these sessions were terminated after the arrest of one of the organizers, which resulted in people being afraid and refraining from participating.
In the initial years of the Foundation's work, Turković led Creatia Croatia 2010 project, which focused on the strategic planning of Croatia's future.
She later experienced depression and received counselling from One in Four (the charity founded by Colm O'Gorman).
"Filipinos behind closed doors: Nonsexual and sexual constructs as predictors of sexual and relationship satisfaction in Filipino individuals".
In 1816, Burrows retired from general practice, and devoted himself to the treatment of insane patients, at first keeping a small asylum at Chelsea, and later, in 1823, establishing a larger one, ‘The Retreat’, at Clapham.
Mott, like Maudsley, appears to have held that mental illness was inherited due to degenerate family lines that worsened until dying out, though his selecting of cases and statistics were questioned by other eugenicists.
At this time he was largely engaged in medical literature, being one of the founders and editors of the London Medical Repository, which commenced in January 1814, and the author of Observations on the Comparative Mortality of London and Paris in 1815.
Monika Salzer (born 11 February 1948) is an Austrian psychotherapist, Protestant theologian and pastor, columnist, and author.
Owens had been working with Designability (formerly the Bath Institute of Medical Engineering) in the hope that they would be able to create sex toys that could be used by disabled people who, without them, cannot masturbate.
He was appointed OBE for services to the National Health Service (NHS) in the 2006 New Year's Honours list.
His research on persecutory (paranoid) delusions has explored the idea that these arise from dysfunctional attempts to regulate self-esteem, so that the paranoid patient attributes negative experiences to the deliberate actions of other people.
She is on the faculty of New York University Grossman School of Medicine in the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.
Burns, cognitive-behavioral therapy/theory C James Cantor Robert Cialdini Stephen Connor D Lisa Damour Daniel O David Arthur A.
At Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, she became director of behavioral medicine and later directed the Center for Behavior and Health within the Institute for Public Health and Medicine.
In 1846 he assumed for his children by Royal licence the surname of Vernon in lieu of Smith and in 1859 he assumed for himself by Royal licence the same surname in lieu of Smith.
Affiliations Hughes is registered with the UK Council for Psychotherapy, the Health Care Professions Council, and the British Association of Art Therapy.
While this stance is seen as extremely liberal in Egypt, Kotb's beliefs about sexuality tend to be conservative by Western standards.
Her research on developmental language impairments has been funded through numerous grants from the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) and the Nuffield Foundation.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Bettany, George Thomas (1886).
In this work, from the Encyclopædia Edinensis, Poole acknowledges help in early life from Archibald Alison.
We listened to the people and provided whatever they wanted – whether it was exercise physiology, nutrition, healing touch, massage, or group therapy.
Malcolm Rae, OBE, FRCN is a British senior registered specialist in mental nursing/forensic psychiatry, mental health consultant, nursing educator and civil servant.
In 2009, while working for the Department of Health, Jaman completed her MBA at the University of Portsmouth.
Lior and the Sea (1985) is set in the world of the Middle Kingdoms, but not concerning any of the characters in the novels.
Previously, he was a senior scientist at the MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit at the University of Cambridge, where he was also a fellow at Hughes Hall College.
In 2015, she hosted a program on Sky One called Fright Club, which helped 60 people to overcome their phobias.
Physiology (1772) because it focused on physiology, which was traditionally only one part of the Institutions (pathology and therapeutics were also essential parts of medical theory).
Mott advanced an overarching theory that mental disease was due to pathology of the sexual reproductive system, as evidenced for example by atrophied testes, causing breakdown of cerebral neurons in certain parts of the brain.
Approche systémique et psychothérapie (1989) La thérapie familiale en changement (1994) Panorama des thérapies familiales À quel psy se vouer ?
Gaffney spent twenty years working for the Eastern Health Board before taking on writing columns and beginning a radio career.
She later became the founding director of the University's Muriel McQueen Fergusson Centre for Family Violence and co-edited "Sexual Coercion in Dating Relationships." By 2003, she was elected Chair of the psychology department at UNB.
Her most cited paper, published in 1997 in the American Psychologist, reviewed the literature on depression from a cross-cultural perspective, emphasizing links between gender and depressive states.
In cultural clinical psychology, two topics were in the foreground: the "cultural scripts of trauma sequelae" and "historical trauma" according to the concept of Maria Yellow Horse Brave Heart.
He has also evaluated the predictive role of socioeconomic status and social support on adherence to cardiac rehabilitation and proposed that adequate nutrition, educational support, exercise, and psychological support all contribute to optimal cardiac rehabilitation.
When the Liberals (as the Whigs were now known) returned to office in 1855 under Lord Palmerston, Vernon was appointed President of the Board of Control, with a seat in the cabinet, a post he retained until the government fell in March 1858.
Lockhart Robertson worked as the superintendent of Sussex County Asylum at Haywards Heath from 1859 to 1870, and in 1860 he also served as Linacre demonstrator of Anatomy at Oxford University.
Adrian Wells, CPsychol, is a British clinical psychologist who is the creator of metacognitive therapy.
He also served as lead relapse prevention facilitator for the Young Adult Track at the Betty Ford Center.
In 2021, Forbes Central America chose her among the 100 most powerful women in Central America and the Dominican Republic.
Reflections on the challenges of understanding racial, cultural and sexual differences in couple relationship research.
He and Catherine bought the original Royal Victoria Home and then rented a series of buildings around the country to create the National Institutions for Inebriates.
In 1998, the Harvard Institute of Psychiatric Epidemiology and Genetics recognized Fleiss with a Lifetime Contribution Award for his contributions to psychiatric epidemiology and biostatistics.
Pamphlet addressed to Andrew Duncan, the elder on the infirmary question; Duncan replied to the agitation for a new infirmary in a letter to William Fettes.
EPaCT members have developed computerized technologies (including computer games) for psychotherapy to modify people's existing cognitive biases, change negative thinking styles, and reduce the impact of intrusive memories.
He refereed the 1949 All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship Final, a clash between Tipperary and Laois, which saw Tipp winning the first of three consecutive titles by a scoreline of 3–11 to 0–3.
Through her own therapy Boyesen got to know the connection between repressed emotions and muscle tensions.
The bladder infection was the source of inflammatory phlebitis extending from pelvic to spinal veins.
Although he was a good scholar, Gibson left school at the age of eleven and held a variety of jobs before moving to England in 1910 to become an attendant at Winwick Asylum in Warrington.
Adding to this, one interdimensional portal in The Door into Fire appears to open over New York City.
Advocacies Cruz advocates for sex education for Filipinos and has participated in campaigns for HIV awareness and family planning.
Tucker was on "Spouse Marital Adjustment and Patient Life Engagement as Factors in Dietary Compliance of Chronic Hemodialysis Patients." Between 1987 and 2007 he was a Clinical Director of Maytal - Israel Institute for Treatment and Study of Stress.
Betsy Thom is a British sociologist and Professor of Health Policy in the Department of Mental Health & Social Work at Middlesex University She is known for her works on substance abuse and substance use policy.
Health theory of coping The health theory of coping overcame limitations of previous coping theories by designating categories that were conceptually clear, mutually exclusive, comprehensive, functionally homogenous, functionally distinct, generative and flexible.
She worked on Swahili ethnographic exhibitions at the Hearst Museum of Anthropology in 1984, at Cambridge University in 1984, and at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro in 1999.
He was subsequently convicted on the charge of rape and sentenced to 4.5 years imprisonment on March 3, 2021.
She attended medical school at Cairo University, writing a thesis entitled "Medicolegal Implications of Sexually Transmitted Diseases in Sexually abused Children." While writing her thesis, she realized that she had very little idea about normal sexuality.
He died on 29 October 1846, aged 76, and is buried adjacent to his wife Sophia (1768 - 1858) in the Terrace Catacombs in Highgate Cemetery.
It is not clear whether or not he was a part of the juring clergy, who swore to the Civil Constitution of the Clergy.
Honours In the 2001 New Year Honours, Pulotu-Endemann was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to public health.
They are printed by the Dumfries Herald, except for the 13th Report (for 1852) printed by the Crichton Press....
Life He was born in Thornhill in Dumfriesshire in 1844 the son of John Fraser, a physician He studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh graduating with an MB ChB in 1870.
In 1884, aged 59, he married a minor, 19 year-old Mabel Wilton Rochfort, of Exmouth, daughter of Colonel Gustavus Cowper Rochfort, (dec'd 1884) late of the 41st Madras Native Infantry.
Elizabeth Campbell (1954–2010) was a clinical psychologist from Scotland, head of both the British Psychological Society, and also the European Federation of Psychology Associations.
Utz wrote a poetry column for the Paterson Morning Call and published in literary anthologies nationally.
Hilda Andrea Davis (May 24, 1905 – October 6, 2001) was an American educator, college administrator, and mental health professional.
(2009) "Posttraumatic Symptoms, Functional Impairment, and Coping among Adolescents on Both Sides of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: A Cross-Cultural Approach".
Religious views He can be described as a believing Christian of the Serbian Orthodox religion, but he always wisely exerted the principles of respect, tolerance and openness towards other religions, based on the long-term knowledge from his psychological work.
Also, the Scottish medical schools were held in esteem, having contributed greatly to the Enlightenment of the previous century.
In the Kharkiv Institute for Doctors' Improvement Dovzhenko graduated from practical hypnosis courses.
Though written in the early twilight of the Middle Ages and in inferior Latin, it at once took its place alongside of such classic productions as the Aphorisms of Hippocrates.
She was responsible for the overall implementation and administration of the programs of the association.
During her graduate studies she worked and studied to improve the lives of people living with HIV/AIDS, and Brazilian women living in deep poverty and experiencing violence.
He has collaborated with theatre and film directors, using constellations as a tool to explore the subtleties of plots, characters and performance alignment - for many years collaborated at Juan Carlos Corazza's school - "Estudio Corazza para la Actuación".
Mitchell earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Delaware in 1963 and eventually received a master's degree from Washington College.
Jellinek international award for excellence in the field of alcohol and other addictions 2011 - Honorary Fellow, British Psychological Society == References ==
She was one of the first active Black members of the American Association of University Women (AAUW).
Former senator Brian Greig denounced Arndt for using "the work of 'researchers' with strong links to the American religious right" when discussing same-sex parenting, saying that she should have been "able to distinguish such research from sham, politically motivated studies".
David Epston (born 30 August 1944) is a New Zealand social worker and therapist, formerly co-director of the Family Therapy Centre in Auckland, New Zealand, formerly visiting professor at the John F.
Ananda Galappatti is a medical anthropologist and practitioner in the field of mental health in Sri Lanka.
She was named by Time magazine as one of their Europeans of the Year in 2003 and in 2016 won the Irish Council for Civil Liberties Human Rights Film award for her coverage of the refugee crisis.
The competition between the two systems had knock-on effects in how patients were treated worldwide, especially in Italy and Germany, during the end of the eighteenth and beginning of the nineteenth century.
He has also been a one-term Member of Parliament (MP) for Labis (2004-2008) and a 4-term Member of the Johor State Legislative Assembly (MLA) for Penggaram from 1986 to 2004.
Political career He was first elected as a state assemblyman for Penggaram, Johor on MCA's ticket in 1986.
Currently, he is a clinical professor of psychology at the University of Haifa School of Social Work.
In October 2019, about a month before the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, Taylor published the book The Psychology of Pandemics.
She joined the Democratic political movement later that year and supported Evelyn Gandy's bid for the Democratic nomination for governor.
The organization works to increase communication between women and connect the public with forms of women-based media.
Her 2002 book Assessing and measuring caring in nursing and health sciences, and 2005 book Caring science as sacred science, have both received the American Journal of Nursing's “Book of the Year” award.
Publications Réseau Alternative à la psychiatrie (1977) Formations et pratiques en thérapie familiale (1985) Les pratiques de réseaux : santé mentale et contexte social (1987) Si tu m’aimes, ne m’aime pas.
https://www3.unifr.ch/directory/de/people/287773/4eb60 https://www3.unifr.ch/med/de/research/groups/hasler/ https://gregorhasler.ch
In 1999, she moved to the United Kingdom to continue her family therapy studies, obtaining a Master of Science in 2001 and a Doctorate in 2008 in Systemic Psychotherapy from The Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust, in conjunction with the University of East London.
One of his teachers at the Institute was psychologist Monte Shapiro; according to Salkovskis, Shapiro was a "role model" for him.
Janet Fern Hanneman McNulty (January 17, 1936 – June 9, 2019) was an American nurse who was a Peace Corps volunteer in Lahore, Pakistan, from 1962 to 1964.
Refereeing career Flaherty was also a referee, regularly officiating club and county matches at different levels throughout the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s.
Linda Lucille Wiley Donley-Reid (July 19, 1945 – January 9, 2020) was an American museum curator, archaeologist and clinical psychologist.
"Pacific models of mental health service delivery in New Zealand (“PMMHSD”) project." Auckland: Health Research Council of New Zealand (2004).
He is currently an emeritus professor at Flinders University, after serving as vice-president and executive dean at the university's College of Education, Psychology and Social Work.
As of 2011, he serves as Joint Lead Acute Care Programme, National Institute of Mental Health in England.
After working at Bacon Health Center, she was transferred to the Delaware State Psychiatric Hospital in 1963.
From 1807 until his death, on 14 May 1833, he lived in a 'country house' in Merry Hill near Bushey in Hertfordshire.
She worked at and helped to develop the Women's Therapy Centre in London set up by fellow feminists and psychotherapists Luise Eichenbaum and Susie Orbach in 1976.
He rose to become Professor of Clinical Psychology, giving his inaugural lecture in 1979 titled "Hypnosis in the service of research".
Andrew Clark Provence (born March 8, 1961) is an American former professional football player who was a defensive lineman for five seasons with the Atlanta Falcons of the National Football League (NFL).
"The stress and coping of Israeli emergency room social workers following terrorist attacks." Qualitative Health Research 14.8 (2004): 1077-1093.
The reservoir's water level is normally 1,991 meters above sea level, but on November 10 was only 1,968 meters above sea level.
An international appeal was made by the United Nations, NGOs, and the Red Cross and Red Crescent for around US$25 million to assist the government.
The national energy matrix has no emergency reserves and by 2004 it was functioning at the top of its capacity.
Essentially abandoning the intermediate designation in favor of becoming mid-size vehicles, the A-body vehicles adopted a footprint slightly smaller than the X-body compacts.
In fact, the Council of Economic Advisors published a consensus estimate that a one-year, 50 percent increase in the price of oil could temporarily raise the price level of the economy by one percent and potentially lower real output by the same amount.
The early stages of the Special Period were defined by a general breakdown in transportation and agricultural sectors, fertilizer and pesticide stocks (both of those being manufactured primarily from petroleum derivatives), and widespread food shortages.
China is the largest buyer of Iranian oil, and had stressed the importance of protecting global shipping routes.
The generic term is "transition initiative", which includes transition neighborhoods, communities, and cities, although "transition town" is in common usage.
which overlap with powerful fractions of the capitalist class," are the most responsible for environmental impacts through their consumption patterns worldwide.
Production Greer published a short version of this story on his blog, the Archdruid Report, in October 2012.
It is suggested that this process can help companies increase profitability by reducing raw material and waste disposal cost, reducing carbon emission, making their by-products a source of revenue to be bought by other business.
In March 2005, President Kirchner admitted that "for a long time the possibility will remain that we must move on the brink [of a crisis]".
However, the high process heat of the molten salt reactors could be used to make liquid fuels from any carbon source.
Factors which can modify this curve include: Inadequate demand for oil, which reduces steepness of the curve and pushes its peak into the future.
In 2016, the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and 11 other NGOs released a report on the impact of building new coal-fired power plants in countries where a significant proportion of the population lacks access to electricity.
Another elaborated about the saturation of demand hypothesis: They say as we get richer, we'll want to travel more.
Also that day, US military intelligence sources reported that Iran had begun planting naval mines in the Strait of Hormuz.
The actual shape of a graph of real world production trends is determined by various factors, such as development of enhanced production techniques, availability of competing resources, and government regulations on production or consumption.
Interest free loans were provided for the conversion of vehicles to run on gas and subsidies were provided for gas refueling infrastructure.
The addition of more complex power cycles would reduce this requirement and help enable frost free operation.
As winter approached, the Argentine government announced that it would restrict natural gas exports in order to preserve the supply for internal consumption, both domestic and industrial, in compliance with the Hydrocarbons Law.
In November 2010 by Millard-Ball and Schipper presented data confirming the trend in cities in eight nations: United States, Canada, Sweden, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Japan and Australia.
Themes currently in production Each set will be listed on the Playmobil shop either for sale or out of stock.
should be an important part of the University of Toronto's response to the challenges of climate change." However, the report went further, and allied itself with the Paris Agreement.
In October 2025, the government announced a moratorium on the zeroing of the fuel damper, the exemption of winter diesel fuel from excise duty, and an extension of the gasoline export ban until 1 May 2026.
The "environmental Kuznets curve" (EKC) hypothesis posits that at early stages of development, pollution per capita and GDP per capita move in the same direction.
According to Lewis after the Palestine Liberation Organization had reached an agreement with Israel, there was some division among the groups, however they continue to lobby for Palestinians.
History In the early days of the oil industry, there was no need for stimulation to improve recovery efficiency, because supply vastly outstripped demand and leaving "difficult" oil in the ground was economically expedient.
Government involvement The Australian government became involved in the scam in a number of ways—through defence-force agencies and personnel, through the export agency Austrade and directly through successful lobbying of federal minister for science Julie Bishop and Prime Minister John Howard.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
After Media Blasters' license expired, Discotek Media announced at Otakon 2018 on August 12 that they have picked up the series for a Blu-ray release.
Ecuador experienced rolling blackouts for two to six hours per day that lasted from November 2009 until January 2010.
One person interviewed in the movie questions whether it is a good idea to have both a president and vice president who are close to the oil industry.
In 2009 alone, the United Arab Emirates spent $5.3 million, as the Emirates were seeking nuclear technology.
The term proven reserves is further subdivided into proved developed reserves and proved undeveloped reserves.
While titles like Bubblegum Crisis 2040, Dirty Pair Flash and Tekkaman Blade gave modern spins to old classics, the creators of Giant Robo decided to go with a "retro" look.
According to estimates, 50% of the electricity generated in Argentina depends on gas-powered plants.
The signature Playmobil toy is a 7.5 cm (3.0 in) tall (1:24 scale) human figure with a smiling face.
This group also administers the "ring fence" corporation tax and supplementary charge paid by companies on profits from oil and gas production, and previously administered the royalty charged on the gross value of oil and gas won.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
1974, a blow-out at Champion-41 caused a delay in the appraisal/development operations and to compensate for this delay, eight isolated appraisal wells were drilled in 1975 - 1976.
The collectible card game Netrunner (also by Richard Garfield) has a card called "Nevinyrral" which has the effect of giving the Corporate player an extra action each turn, but if this card goes away the Corporate player loses.
Colin Campbell also contributed the foreword to the book and Heinberg quotes from his research in the book.
Dramarama (Icelandic: Villiljós) is a 2001 Icelandic comedy-drama film directed by Inga Lísa Middleton, Dagur Kári, Ragnar Bragason, Ásgrímur Sverrisson and Einar Thór Gunnlaugsson.
The 1967 Oil Embargo began on June 6, 1967, the second day of the Six-Day War, with a joint Arab decision to deter any countries from supporting Israel militarily.
On 31 March, Trump told countries that were having trouble getting fuel due to the closer to fend for themselves, saying that the US would not help them.
Past keynote speeches have been given by the energy secretaries and ministers of Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Mexico, Norway, and the United States.
That goal was based on a market that was 67 percent cars and 33 percent trucks and SUVs and higher fuel prices, but American customers weren't buying that many cars, as the market was still about 50/50 and was likely to stay that way.
But generations arise from shared formative experiences, not headcounts, and the two groups evolved with dramatic differences.
A survey of 301 businesses conducted by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry showed on 18 June 2008 that nearly 630 employees had already been, or could be, stood down or made redundant - nearly 1% of the workforce surveyed.
As for the global usefulness of the Hirsch conclusions, as of 2004, the US share of global oil consumption was about 26%, while its share of the world population was only 4.3%; Europe used 11% of global oil while having about 6.8% of the world population.
The United States advocated emergency measures in OECD meetings and supported the establishment of an International Industry Advisory Board.
Police are taking action, requesting petrol stations to close temporarily in order to keep traffic flowing.
Major metropolitan areas including Kyiv, Kharkiv, Odesa, and Zhytomyr developed emergency power systems for critical infrastructure, focusing on maintaining water supply, heating, and sanitation services.
Globalization and modernization have brought Western consumer cultures to countries like China and India, including meat-intensive diets which are supplanting traditional plant-based diets.
South Africa responded to anti-apartheid embargoes by switching from imported crude oil to coal liquefaction producing gasoline and diesel profitably from coal and natural gas using Fischer-Tropsch synthesis.
(NYT, Reuters) March 12: The near-month (April) crude oil futures price at the NYMEX settles at $37.83 per barrel, the highest near-month settlement price (in nominal terms) since October 1990.
It was capable of handling vessels up to 100 feet (30 m) long and weighing 100 tonnes (98 long tons; 110 short tons).
The government "ignored these precedents, as well as industry advice, to develop an appropriate contingency response plan to deal with such a crisis and accordingly deserves strong criticism".
On 10 November, during a visit by the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen to Moldova, a 250 million-euro financial package from the European Union (EU) was announced to help Moldova deal with its energy crisis.
Bardi concluded that rapid collapse is not a flaw, or "bug" as he terms it, but a "varied and ubiquitous phenomena" with multiple causes and resultant pathways.
Arab American civil rights and advocacy groups The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) was started in 1980 by United States Senator James Abourezk.
As the Chinese strategists had anticipated, the Americans are unable to imagine that they might actually be defeated, and therefore double down on their existing military strategy, further depleting American reserves and matériel.
They believe they share few traits and cultural touchstones with a noisy cohort that overshadowed them." Larry Edelman, writing for The Boston Globe and identifying as a Gen Joneser, said of his generation: "too young for Woodstock, too old to identify with Gen X.
Oil Embargo The Baghdad Resolutions were important because Egypt broadcast claims of US aircraft support on June 6.
Prices then dropped back to $60/barrel by the early part of 2007 before rising steeply again to $92/barrel by October 2007, and $99.29/barrel for December futures in New York on November 21, 2007.
Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) is a consulting company in the United States that specializes in advising governments and private companies on energy markets, geopolitics, industry trends, and strategy.
The list excludes fields where commercial development has been unsuccessful and fields with no current plan for development and extraction.
Plan is to allow for gradual 2-3 percent annual price increases, however, domestic petroleum prices remain at Phase I levels.
However, the Moldovan government's crisis centre reported on 4 January that coal reserves for the power station would only last until the end of January, after which Transnistria would be left without electricity.
Cost-push inflation can also result from a rise in expected inflation, which in turn the workers will demand higher wages, thus causing inflation.
Currently delivery lorries mostly have second smaller diesel engines to power cooling when the main engine is off.
It has promoted actively professors John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt's book The Israel Lobby and U.S.
They plan to accomplish this by "inspiring, encouraging, supporting, networking and training individuals and their communities as they consider, adopt, adapt, and implement the transition approach to community empowerment and change".
On a week when oil fell the most since 2014, Russia rejected plans by OPEC and others to help calm the oil market, and Saudi Arabia was expected to increase production.
With the exception of the Dodge Viper and Plymouth Prowler, the 1989 M-platform vehicles were the last rear-wheel drive Chrysler cars produced until the 2005 introduction of the LX platform.
Other oil-consuming nations In response to the high oil prices of the 1970s, industrial nations took steps to reduce their dependence on the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC) oil.
Lewis states that they also offered testimony to congress and criticized Israel's congressional and organizational supporters, sought to pass pro-Palestinian resolutions in state and national party platforms; offering pro-Palestinian testimony before Congress and attempted to sue Israel in U.S.
Thus, furthering the spread of the transition movement while networking related organizations, projects, ideas and activities.
References External links The novella: The Magic Goes Away title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database The series: The Magic Goes Away series listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
The average daily dietary energy consumption of Cuban citizens during the periods of 1990–92 and 1995–97 were 2,720 and 2,440 kcal/person/day respectively.
During its brief period of operation, which ended on 30 June 1929, S-1 produced a total of 5,320 barrels of oil.
Analysis of 22 trace elements in oils correlate significantly better with chondrite, serpentinized fertile mantle peridotite, and the primitive mantle than with oceanic or continental crust, and shows no correlation with seawater.
Supplies of electricity in Guangdong province, the manufacturing hub of China, are predicted to fall short by an estimated 10 GW.
On 10 January, authorities again ordered schools and government offices closed in roughly one-third of the country’s provinces as several power plants remained shut for lack of fuel.
He told an interviewer for The Atlantic in 2007, "When I think of Baby Boomers, I think of my mother's generation.
The revenues from sales authorized under section 403 will be deposited into the general fund of the U.S.
Players who ordered Frontlines from online retailer Amazon.com were given a limited-edition collector's tin.
For the most part, proven reserves are stated by the oil companies, the producer states and the consumer states.
Lack of fertilizer and agricultural machinery caused a shift towards organic farming and urban farming.
Public Interest Group, met with the Task Force (although not with Vice President Cheney personally).
Origins The National Association of Arab-Americans (NAAA), founded in 1972, was a political advocacy group whose goals were "to strengthen U.S.
Green recovery initiatives are supported by the United Nations (UN) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
The enchantment eventually consumes all of the mana in the vicinity, which causes a localized failure in all magic.
On 30 July 1979, the government introduced carless days, where private motorists had to choose one day of the week, on which they could not drive their motor vehicle.
Taxi drivers reported long petrol queues in Clarence Place, Corporation Road and parts of Maindee in Newport.
In January 2023, a report by BP predicted that the world will sharply reduce its reliance on oil and gas, over the next 25 years.
Beyond a certain income level, emissions per capita decrease as GDP per capita increases, thus generating a U-shaped relationship between GDP per capita and pollution.
The smallest model of the Mustang ever, the 1974 Mustang II was 6 inches shorter than the 1964½ debut version.
Rasau is part of an 11-kilometre road connecting Sungai Teraban and Sungai Tujoh, which facilitates easier travel between Brunei and Sarawak's Miri Division, including Miri and surrounding areas.
Part III – discusses the gap between the center of the World System and the developing world as it existed then, with a focus on village culture and unemployment in India.
A large proportion of the developed world's population live in suburbs, a type of low-density settlement designed with the automobile in mind.
Carbonate decomposition Calcium carbonate may decompose at around 500 °C (932 °F) through the following reaction: Reaction 5: Hydrogen + calcium carbonate → methane + calcium oxide + water 4 H2 + CaCO3 → CH4 + CaO + 2 H2O Note that CaO (lime) is not a mineral species found within natural rocks.
The controversial Corn Laws were a protectionist two-sided measure of subsidies on corn exports and tariffs on corn imports.
Most of the carbon dioxide is removed so the gas can meet the specifications of the onshore pipelines and end users.
The South African Government has said that there was no shortage of fuel in the country, but prices have increased and some petrol stations have introduced their own rationing of diesel.
On January 26, 2008, Dushanbe cut power to places of entertainment (including restaurants, shops, pharmacies, markets, and public bathhouses), causing many to close until spring.
Unconventional reservoirs, in contrast, are regionally dispersed over large areas with no indicative trap geometry that can be used for predictive purposes.
However, the government also pointed out that remedies are on the works, and that Argentina is better prepared than in 2004 to face problems with energy generation.
History From Kinsale to Totnes In 2004, permaculture designer Rob Hopkins set his students at Kinsale Further Education College the task of applying permaculture principles to the concept of peak oil.
In April 2008, Pradeep Mitra, World Bank chief economist for Europe and Central Asia, issued an uncharacteristic statement, urging the worse-hit countries to spend more on social assistance and "top up" their social programs.
Criticism Environmental economists and critics of globalized capitalism take issue with this theory for a number of reasons.
Uzbekistan Beginning in late December 2007, the unusually harsh weather had frozen the gas supply to numerous homes and businesses across Uzbekistan.
Stephen Sorrell, senior lecturer Science and Technology Policy Research, Sussex Energy Group, and lead author of the UKERC Global Oil Depletion report, and Christophe McGlade, doctoral researcher at the UCL Energy Institute have criticized Maugeri's assumptions about decline rates.
With a small 17" x 22" hex grid map and only 80 counters, the game has been characterized as "not complex".
The Americans shoot down many of them, but as one missile after another finds its way through the ships' air defenses, the fleet is devastated: most of the ships, including the aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan, are either sunk or disabled.
Critics of the steady-state economy usually object to it by arguing that resource decoupling, technological development, and the operation of market mechanisms are capable of overcoming resource scarcity, pollution, or population overshoot.
These state sites, under the umbrella of a national Ning site, were set up to help facilitate, network, inform, monitor, and house regional and organizational transition initiatives.
Analog-only techniques are called yet-to-find (YTF), and involve identifying areas containing producing assets that are geologically similar to those being estimated and substituting data to match what is known about a segment.
New York City television and FM radio stations that transmit from the Empire State Building were off the air.
Petrochemical and energy related projects figured prominently, designed to utilise New Zealand's abundant natural gas to produce ammonia, urea fertiliser, methanol and petrol.
The system's total investments were about $589 million; the decision would affect $502,000 of direct investments in coal, which amounts to about 30% of the system's total ($1.7 million exposure to coal, including both direct and indirect investments).
The Petrol Retailers Association, whose membership represents more than 5,500 petrol stations, said that it knew nothing about any form of planned government contingency plans and was advising members to keep fuel levels high.
Some argue that overconsumption enables the existence of an "overclass", while others disagree with the role of overconsumption in class inequality.
Upon awakening, he finds himself at the mercy of Antonio Malochio, Jade's killer and the mastermind behind the plan.
The government's communication with industry and customers was "sporadic at best", and it should have declared a state of emergency to control gas distribution, rather than leaving distribution to market forces and a bulletin board system.
The trade war with China caused concerns, though possible actions by Trump helped slightly on May 24.
Numerous highways and streets experienced blackouts, including a 24-hour power outage on the critical Haraz road, which connects Tehran to northern cities.
The story explores a society completely brought down, within the span of one week, because of dependency on a single energy source and a state of prosperity tainted by compromise and deceit.
Mighty Gin Rei (鉄腕銀鈴, Tetsuwan GinRei), released between volumes 5 and 6 of Giant Robo, is a send up of super robot series and features Ken Ishikawa as guest mech designer.
West Germany West Germany, Europe's largest economy at the time, had the largest post-war GDP fall in 1975.
Industrial gas provider BOC reduced its supply of carbon dioxide to pubs for draft beer, whilst the shortage also threatened WA's wineries, who use carbon dioxide for bottling.
Although swift continued growth in China is often predicted, others predict that China's export-dominated economy will not continue such growth trends due to wage and price inflation and reduced demand from the US.
Horst Brandstätter, the owner of the company, asked Beck to develop toy figures for children instead.
Several Middle Eastern countries eventually limited their oil shipments, some embargoing only the United States and the United Kingdom, while others placed a total ban on oil exports.
Most olivines also contain high nickel concentrations (up to several percent) and may also contain chromite or chromium as a contaminant in olivine, providing the needed transition metals.
Production Non-OPEC During the 1980s, reliance on Middle East production dwindled as commercial exploration developed major non-OPEC oilfields in Siberia, Alaska, the North Sea, and the Gulf of Mexico, and the Soviet Union became the world's largest producer of oil.
Activists and politicians, particularly younger people, demanded a "Green New Deal" in the US, a Green Industrial Revolution in the UK, and to end the use of fossil fuels in transport, energy generation, agriculture, buildings, and finance.
However, in an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Daniel Yergin, previously known for his quotes that the price of oil would soon return down to "normal", amended the company's position on 7 May 2008 to predict that oil would reach $150 during 2008, due to tightness of supply.
The EGDP-01 platform was put in the field and the gases would then be carried by pipelines to the Brunei LNG plant, via South West Ampa gas field.
This idea is supported by economist Robert Solow who claimed that four-fifths of US economic growth could be attributed to technological development (the other fifth being accounted for by expansion of labor and capital).
Availability of cheap, but hard to transport, natural gas in some oil fields has led to using natural gas to fuel enhanced oil recovery.
Seattle University (Seattle, Washington, US) – in September 2018, following student group pressure Seattle University is the first university in Washington state to divest its endowment of fossil fuels over the next five years.
Sandra Johnston had fled to Bali after the seizure of Johnston's passports, concerned at her own potential liability due to her position as a company director between 2005 and 2008.
History Initiation of the inflationary cycle is traced to Anthony Barber's 1972 budget which was designed to return the Conservatives to power in an election expected in 1974 or 1975.
Overlapping environmental, social, and economic forces such as the 1973 energy crisis and popularisation of the concept of globalisation helped bring Schumacher's Small Is Beautiful critiques of mainstream economics to a wider audience during the 1970s.
In 1998, the acquisition of new high-resolution 3D seismic data over the shallow marine surf zone led to the identification of several undrilled blocks on the north flank of the Seria anticline.
Nevertheless, the embargo lasted only until January 1974, though the price of oil remained high afterwards.
Coal-fired power plants are particularly detrimental, emitting toxic substances that adversely affect human health.
As Jonesers reached adulthood, the United States military draft and involvement in the Vietnam War had ended; thus, they had no defining political cause, as opposition to the war was for the older Boomers.
At the time of the invasion, Iraq owed Kuwait $14 billion of outstanding debt that Kuwait had loaned it during the 1980–1988 Iran–Iraq War.
The disconnection led to a disturbance in the national power system, resulting in a nearly nationwide power shutdown, as other power stations failed repeatedly when attempting to come back online.
As a result, there had been numerous demonstrations and protests against the government, in favor of an insured uninterrupted supply of gas and electricity.
The extracted helium is stored underground in the National Helium Reserve near Amarillo, Texas, the self-proclaimed "Helium Capital of the World".
The Oil Embargo did not significantly decrease the amount of oil available in the United States or any affected European countries, due mainly to a lack of solidarity and uniformity in embargoing specific countries.
Pavel Sorokin from the Russian Ministry of Energy doubted that the cuts would work with stating following quotes: "We cannot fight a falling demand situation when there is no clarity about where the bottom is." "It is very easy to get caught in a circle when, by cutting once, you get into an even...
Currently, decline curve analysis software on PC computers is used to plot production decline curves for petroleum economics analysis.
Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is charged on "super-profits" arising from the exploitation of oil and gas in the UK and the UK's continental shelf.
For the first week of December, Brent fell 2.5 percent to $71.12 and WTI was down just over 1 percent to $67.20.
Yergin believes that world oil production will continue to rise until "perhaps sometime around mid-century" and then "plateau" or enter a gradual decline.
Playmobil toys are produced in themed series of sets as well as individual special figures and playsets.
Akins, who audited US capacity for Nixon after US peak, was US ambassador in Saudi Arabia at that time.
Transportation Communities are encouraged by The Transition Network to seek out methods for reducing energy usage as well as reducing their reliance on long supply chains that are totally dependent on fossil fuels for essential items (see environmental calculator).
Matthias Schmale, the UN's resident and humanitarian coordinator in Ukraine, stated in mid-November 2024 that Russian forces had destroyed approximately 65% of Ukraine's energy production capacity, creating what he estimated would likely be the most difficult winter period of conflict so far.
This is an example of mainstream media attention the movement received a few years after being founded.
That day, the Department of Budget and Management also approved the release of ₱20 billion (US$406.09 million) from the Malampaya gas fund to the DOE to secure fuel supply and stabilize availability amid global disruptions.
It has been noted that the Obama Administration has made the largest investment in the American history to have clean energy through renewable power generation.
Traffic-reducing policies such as the "pedestrianisation" of city centres, traffic calming, parking control, congestion charging.
Several notable key note speakers have visited DUG conferences including Leon Panetta at Pittsburgh's in 2014, T.
Reserves less than 90% recoverable but more than 50% are considered "probable reserves" and below 50% are "possible reserves".
The Minister of Electric Power and president of the National Electric Corporation (Corpoelec) threatened with the maximum penalty (25 to 30 years in prison) those who commit acts of sabotage.
The gap between Ted Heath's Tory government and the Labour opposition led by Harold Wilson, who had been prime minister for nearly six years until his surprise defeat by Heath's Tories in the 1970 election, was so narrow that the Tories received the most votes, but Labour won slightly more seats.
This opinion has been met with criticism by those who believe a peak has already occurred or is imminent.
They contend that implementing these alternatives could undermine the capitalist model of resource hoarding and distribution, leading to conspiracy theories regarding the suppression of free energy technologies.
On 27 September 1982, Muldoon introduced 'The Wage Freeze Regulations' that would freeze wages and prices on a national scale until 22 June 1983.
The government response was varied, and in Karakalpakstan, they met protesters and promised to rectify the situation, while the local government head of Hazarasp responded to a complaint by one woman by cutting off gas altogether to all the houses on her street.
reported negative economic growth during the 1970s and remained weak till the 1980s as the post World War II economic boom drew to a close.
As the cost of moving human workers continues to rise, while the cost of moving information electronically continues to fall, presumably market forces should cause more people to substitute virtual travel for physical travel.
Infrastructure The Rasau Bridge, which spans the Belait River, provides a direct route from Brunei to the Sungai Tujoh Immigration Checkpoint, eliminating the need for the often frustrating ferry service.
By 2016, several papers have cast doubt on the peak car phenomenon, demonstrating that economic and sociodemographic factors account for most or all of the observed slowdowns.
The larger dock had been towed to Kuala Belait three years earlier and was the first facility of its kind in Brunei, Sabah, or Sarawak.
In the long term, the theory implies faith that technological progress will allow backstop resources to be essentially unlimited (see also Cornucopian), and that need will cause the development of new technologies to become cost effective.
As oil prices spiked following the 1979 energy crisis, Canada began significant production of oil derived from tar sands, also known as bitumen.
Although reluctant, Groove proves himself a talented driver and a capable fighter, quickly picking up on the necessary skills to survive in battle.
Real-world examples Several real-world nations exhibit the characteristics of the Export Land Model as pictured in the image gallery above.
Synopsis Small Is Beautiful is divided into four parts: "The Modern World", "Resources", "The Third World", and "Organization and Ownership".
Computer Gaming World gave The Interstate '76 Arsenal 4 out of 5, Game Revolution gave it B+, and GameSpot gave it 7.6 out 10.
The Santiago Metro suspended all subway services throughout the capital, while Arturo Merino Benítez International Airport activated emergency power systems to maintain essential operations.
Qatari reserve categories With the publication of the 2020 corporate bond prospectus Qatar Energy introduced the term Confirmed Reserves for its North Field gas reserves.
Mexico proposed to cut its oil production by 100,000 bpd for two months, from 1.781 mbd to 1.681 mbd.
List of failures See also Dam failure List of power outages Hydraulic engineering Hydroelectricity List of significant thermal power station failures Operation Chastise Malpasset Dam St.
The WTI delivery price difference between months resulted in unusually high contango; purchasing cheap physical oil to storage for later sale.
Syria stopped all oil exports, rather than just embargoing specific countries, in order to avoid declaring specific nations as aggressors.
The 2006 Russia–Georgia energy crisis describes an international incident triggered by two explosions on the Mozdok–Tbilisi natural gas pipeline in North Ossetia on January 22, 2006.
In 2005, Duncan further extended the data set of his theory to 2003 in the article "The Olduvai Theory: Energy, Population, and Industrial Civilization." Description The Olduvai theory is a model that primarily draws from the peak oil theory and the per capita energy yield of oil.
A graphically enhanced version of the original game, Interstate '76: Gold Edition, was also released.
New Zealand would abandon the manufacturing of synthetic petrol in February 1997, allowing the plant to switch the focus to methanol..
Operated by Brunei Shell Petroleum (BSP), the Rasau Production Station is located within the area and is connected by pipelines to tank farms in Seria via Mumong, and to the Seria refinery through Kuala Belait.
In The Magic Goes Away, the widespread diminishing of magical power triggers a quest on the part of the most powerful of the magicians of the time to harness a new source of magic, the Moon.
The company was founded in 1983 by Pulitzer Prize winning author Daniel Yergin, James Rosenfield and Joseph Stanislaw.
Counteractions The most obvious solution to the issue of overconsumption is to simply slow the rate at which materials are becoming depleted.
For any future Net-zero compatible demand pathways, oil phase-out can therefore be done by first phasing out high–carbon-intensity oil, saving gigatons of CO₂ in addition to emission reductions coming from the decrease in oil demand.
Examples One example of cost-push inflation is the oil crisis of the 1970s, which some economists see as a major cause of the inflation experienced in the Western world in that decade.
During that time, California relied upon out-of-state generators to supply 7 to 11 gigawatts of power.
Movements and lifestyle choices related to stopping overconsumption include: anti-consumerism, freeganism, green economics, ecological economics, degrowth, frugality, downshifting, simple living, minimalism, the slow movement, and thrifting.
The impacts of the conflict are similar to the 1970s energy crisis, including acute supply shortages, currency volatility, inflation, and heightened risks of stagflation and recession.
The ammonia is used mainly as a nitrogen fertilizer as ammonia itself, in the form of ammonium nitrate, and as urea.
An overall climate target of 30% would apply to the total amount of expenditure from the NGEU in compliance with the Paris climate agreement.
The TN's website contains a listing of the initiatives that have registered, some of which are officially recognised.
Ukraine accumulated substantial debt amid the conflict, with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' restructuring of the national debt resulting in delayed government bond payments.
Remedies In order to diminish the impact of the crisis, three measures were suggested: buying natural gas from Bolivia, which has abundant reserves of it; directly buying electricity from Brazil, which generates a large part of it using hydroelectric power plants; and importing oil from Venezuela.
Amounts listed below, in billions of barrels, are the estimated ultimate recoverable petroleum resources (proved reserves plus cumulative production also abbreviated as URR), given historical production and current extraction technology.
North Carolina governor Pat McCrory, Tennessee governor Bill Haslam and South Carolina governor Nikki Haley all declared states of emergency, allowing fuel tankers to work longer hours to maintain the availability of gasoline.
In order to supply the Brunei LNG plant in Lumut, a US$79 million development of the Egret field was planned by the BSP in November 2001 and 2002.
Campbell believes OPEC countries raised their reserves to get higher oil quotas and to avoid internal critique.
blockade of Cuba, and that if serious problems in the Soviet Union led to a disruption of oil supplies, it would lead to a "special period in times of peace".
This is known as "System-X" and is now the standard Playmobil construction system, Steck-System having been retired except for special reissues.
Thompson, Robert & Wright, John (1985), Oil Property Evaluation (2nd ed.), Golden, Colorado: Thompson-Wright Associates
PRT is administered by the Energy Group of the Large Business Service of HM Revenue and Customs (formerly the Oil Taxation Office of Inland Revenue).
It goes well beyond issues of energy supply, to look at across-the-board creative adaptations in the realms of health, education, economy and much more.
Many stores were forced to close due to lack of power; the few that remained open completely ran out of most staple food items like bread, milk, and eggs.
Housing The cost of producing cement and the scarcity of tools and of building materials increased the pressure on already overcrowded housing.
In well managed under-capacity systems blackouts are planned and schedules are published in advance to allow people to work around them.
Perth's tallest building, Central Park, turned off its heating on 17 June, with General Manager Tim Ward saying, "We're not expecting anyone to be anything but compliant".
Western countries relied on the resources of countries in the Middle East and other parts of the world.
It has certainly been used in official traffic forecasting since the 1970s, for example in a UK Government study by Tulpule (1973) which forecast that car ownership would reach its maximum level by about 2010, with car use showing little further growth after that point.
They also coincided with sabotage on electricity lines just several miles from the pipeline, which descended large parts of Georgia into darkness.
The curve is the main component of Hubbert peak theory, which has led to the rise of peak oil concerns.
Many Cubans from outside Havana began migrating to Havana in search of tourism jobs which provided American dollars.
According to the IEA, approximately 4.1 billion barrels (650,000,000 m3) of oil are held in strategic reserves by the member countries, of which 1.4 billion barrels (220,000,000 m3) is government-controlled.
Investment incentives and macroeconomic ratios were heavily affected by the billions of dollars borrowed for the Think Big projects.
Economy Oil and gas Rasau is centred around the Rasau oil field, one of only two onshore oil fields in Brunei.
April 15—Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan—A little before 9:00 pm, a severe power cut blacked out up to 80% of Almaty and northern parts of Kyrgyzstan, affecting a few million people for several hours.
According to the Council of the European Union, the EU decided to ban coal imports from Russia in August 2022 and has denied 90% of Russian oil imports since September 2022.
The editors called Interstate '76 "more stylish and original [than Quake II], but it suffered a lack of good 3D support and an irritating save feature"; however, the game did receive the 1997 "Artistic Achievement" award.
Near release, it was confirmed that the game would not support cross-platform play, but the developers have stated that they are considering eventually moving the franchise towards becoming a Live Anywhere title.
This had an expected negative effect on the economy, because the leaves are essential to the local silk industry, and the fruit grown on these trees are the main source of income for many villagers.
PRT was abolished on 16 March 1993 for all fields given development consent on or after that date, but continues in existence for fields established before that date.
Some Arab countries encouraged the oil companies to circumvent the embargo, as the Amir of Kuwait even proposed to the US ambassador that companies simply alter shipping manifests to ship oil to prohibited countries.
Both accounts of inflation have at various times been put forward, with inconclusive evidence as to which explanation is superior.
1994 protest Thousands of Cubans protested in Havana on 5 August 1994, some chanting "Libertad!" ("Freedom!").
This is not, however, in agreement with peak oil, which is more on the extraction and production side.
National governments are compelled to compete and struggle with each other to provide employment, investments, tax revenues and wealth for their own populations.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
Iraq was the first country to limit its oil shipments, embargoing the United States and the United Kingdom on June 6.
The rest of the world The oil crisis of 1973 also had similarly large negative effects on other countries that relied heavily on imported oil, such as France, Sweden, Japan, Finland, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Denmark.
The Russian action resulted in the Moldovan government deciding the time had come to sever all connections to Russian energy sources and establish alternative supplies.
While blackout frequency has been shown to be reduced by operating it further from its critical point, it generally is not economically feasible, causing providers to increase the average load over time or upgrade less often resulting in the grid moving itself closer to its critical point.
Following similar measures in response to the GFC, a key goal of the packages is to ensure that actions to combat recession also combat climate change.
Together with high inflation (see Economy of Argentina) and the devaluation of the peso, many companies in the sector had to deal with high levels of debt in foreign currency under a scenario in which their revenues remained stable while their costs increased.
Codelco, Chile's state-owned copper corporation, confirmed that all of its mining operations throughout the country had been affected by the electrical failure.
In September 2024, CEO of Ukrainian state energy company Ukrenergo Volodymyr Kudrytskyi was dismissed by the Ministry of Energy, which in turn resulted in two Ukrenergo Supervisory Board members' resignations.
In November 2014, a group of students calling themselves the Harvard Climate Justice Coalition filed a lawsuit against the Harvard Corporation to compel divestment on the grounds of Harvard's status as a non-profit organization.
Large-scale implementation Modern ammonia plants produce more than 3000 tons per day in one production line.
On September 21, the states of North Carolina and Virginia declared their states of emergency over upon the news of the Colonial Pipeline's completion of the bypass.
The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) recognizes the potential opportunities that the growing biofuel market offers to small farmers and aquaculturers around the world and has recommended small-scale financing to help farmers in poor countries produce local biofuel.
Hubbert parabola This representation was proposed by Roberto Canogar and applied to the oil depletion problem.
Implications to peak oil Peak Oil derives from the Hubbert peak theory, which theorizes that production of any finite resource over time will have roughly inverse curves before and after the peak of the resource's production (creating an approximately bell shaped curve).
Oil ended January near the highest price since August 2025, with Brent finishing at $70.69 and WTI at $65.21, due to uncertainty about Iran.
Some hydroelectric power station failures may go beyond the immediate loss of generation capacity, including destruction of the turbine itself, reservoir breach and significant destruction of national grid infrastructure downstream.
Following the introduction of the Taurus, the use of downsizing through the Ford model line largely stopped.
He estimated it would take up to six weeks before the plant was operational, and said, "These units are old and not as environmentally friendly as new generators.
Thus, according to this theory, when the peak of production is passed, production rates enter an irreversible decline.
Methane has a boiling point of −161 °C, rather than hydrogen's -252.87 °C, making methane a much easier fuel to condense.
Allegations of media suppression As of mid-January 2008, the state-run media did not discuss the problem.
A traditional oil well's rate of decline is shallow, & exhibits a slow, predictable rate of decline as the reservoir is drawn down (Drinking of Milkshake).
In 2015, most countries signed the Paris Agreement committing to limit global carbon emissions to prevent temperature rises by over 2 °C, with an ambition to limit temperature rise to 1.5 °C.
Though not classified as contingent, some technical, contractual, or regulatory uncertainties preclude such reserves being classified as Proven.
This includes the assets of oil companies." Invitees included Egypt, Syria, Kuwait, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Bahrain, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar.
Bardi's book looked at cases of rapid decline across societies (including the fall of empires, financial crises, and major famines), in nature (including avalanches), and through man-made systems (including cracks in metal objects).
Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
In the United Kingdom, the crash ended after the rent freeze was lifted on 19 December 1974, allowing a readjustment of property prices; over the following year, stock prices rose by 150%.
On November 6, the government declared an emergency in the power sector, which was expected to "allow the Finance Ministry to seek to guarantee fuel imports for thermoelectric plants".
The next week was the third down week for both Brent, down nearly 5 percent to $83.63, and WTI, finishing almost 5 percent lower at $76.28.
For unconventional oil to fill the gap without "potentially serious impacts on the global economy", oil production would have to remain stable after its peak, until 2035 at the earliest.
WTI finished the first week of February up 8.9 percent to $56.85 and Brent was up 7.8 percent to $59.34, the highest since January 2020 for both.
The most seriously affected regions were the capital, certain regions of the province of Buenos Aires, and the province of La Pampa.
The time to reach this break-even point is called energy payback period (EPP) or energy payback time (EPBT).
Heating District heating systems which supply several apartment blocks are vulnerable because of their centralisation.
The glut began in the early 1980s as a result of slowed economic activity in industrial countries (due to the 1973 and 1979 energy crises) and the energy conservation spurred by high fuel prices.
Lester Brown of the Earth Policy Institute, has said: "It would take 1.5 Earths to sustain our present level of consumption.
It was also published as a folio game (packaged in a double LP-sized cardstock folder, and as a boxed set.
This means that the marginal tax rate on PRT paying fields is now 81% (fields not paying PRT pay a rate of 62%).
Food and water shortages Water service was disrupted for more than 12 million people due to pipes freezing and bursting.
Kirk Sorensen and others have suggested that additional nuclear power plants, particularly liquid fluoride thorium reactors have the energy density to mitigate global warming and replace the energy from peak oil, peak coal and peak gas.
May: Fifty percent of Saudi Arabia's 10 Mbbl/d (1,600,000 m3/d) production is halted briefly due to fire damage to separation facility in Abqaiq field.
Governor Abbott said "everything that needed to be done was done to fix the power grid in Texas" when he signed the bill.
This would have the effect of keeping world prices reasonable without price shocks and let Third World countries afford their oil imports.
However, on 15 December 2022, the Public Works Department (JKR) announced the demolition of the Rasau Bridge Toll building.
This was initially caused by the country's demand for electricity outstripping supply, and as time progressed, later exacerbated by ageing power infrastructure, poor maintenance, and the slow completion of new power stations.
Requiring users of parking to pay the costs directly, as opposed to sharing the costs indirectly with others through increased rents and tax subsidies.
Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration (EIA) states that historic Canadian Tar Sand production rose from 200,000 barrels per day (32,000 m3/d) in 1980 to 1,100,000 barrels per day (170,000 m3/d) in 2004.
Moreover, wholesale prices of natural gas spiked nationwide, rising from around $2 per one million British thermal units (290 kilowatt-hours) at the beginning of 1999 to over $10 per million BTU in the winter of 2000-2001.
Analysts such as Newman as well as views expressed in the journal edited by Melia entitled World Transport Policy and Practice point to various interrelated causes.
Saudi Arabia plans to decrease crude oil output by 500,000 bbl/d (79,000 m3/d) starting on January 1, 2005.
Eventually, the Earth stops spinning altogether and its position becomes fixed with respect to the background stars, and as a result still experiences a day-night cycle synonymous with an entire year.
In The Magic May Return, it is discovered that mana was originally carried to Earth and the other bodies of the Solar System on the solar wind, which replenishes mana slowly over time.
While Kampong Rasau itself is small, it benefits from local amenities such as a primary school, multi-purpose hall, clinic, and mosque.
Oil sands are unconsolidated sandstone deposits containing large amounts of very viscous crude bitumen or extra-heavy crude oil that can be recovered by surface mining or by in-situ oil wells using steam injection or other techniques.
Abiogenic hypotheses generally reject the supposition that certain molecules found within petroleum, known as biomarkers, are indicative of the biological origin of petroleum.
Over the last century, many predictions of peak oil timing have been made, often later proven incorrect due to increased extraction rates.
The RMI chairman, Brian Madderson, warning of a repeat of the previous week's fuel panic if talks failed.
In the event of a major disruption to refinery operations, the United States would have to call on members of the International Energy Agency that stockpile refined products, and use refining capacities outside of the continental United States for relief.
Many imported brands utilized fuel-saving technologies such as fuel injection and multi-valve engines over the common use of carburetors.
The five Playmobil toys that were to be included in the promotion were a Sheriff, an Indian, a Sheriff's Horse, an Umbrella Girl and a Farmer.
French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said that France negotiated with the United Arab Emirates to replace some Russian oil imports.
The risk that the Middle East could become another superpower confrontation with the USSR was of more concern to Washington than oil.
For example, if steel is being used to drill for oil or construct a nuclear power plant, should the energy input of the steel be taken into account?
Hubbert's peak was thought to have been achieved in the United States contiguous 48 states (that is, excluding Alaska and Hawaii) in the early 1970s.
India's oil imports are expected to more than triple from 2005 levels by 2020, rising to 5 million barrels per day (790×10^3 m3/d).
However some power stations can be exceptionally large in respect to connected grid capacity so that any failure for these proportionally large stations can be more problematic than the failure of a typically sized station.
That same year, construction began on drilling platforms offshore from Seria, marking the field's early expansion into marine-based operations.
The National Cabinet Minister Allan Highet coined the "Think Big" label in a speech to a National Party conference in 1977.
Dushanbe residents reported wearing several jackets and overcoats to sleep and all family members sleeping under a single blanket to share warmth.
As of 2024 global use of fossil fuels is increasing, continuing the trend since 1965, if not earlier.
Other reviews and commentary American Wargamer #2 Battleplan #9 Campaign #79 Fire & Movement #69 JagdPanther #11 & #15 Outposts #8 Panzerschreck #7 == References ==
Easing measures In 2011 the British Government published guidance for energy emergency planning and priority fuel allocation, listing 10 schemes which could be implemented in the event of a fuel supply or demand issue.
On 29 November, during the baseball game between the Navegantes del Magallanes and the Águilas del Zulia at the Estadio Luis Aparicio El Grande, the electricity went out from 7:45 p.m.
He did not make a distinction between "conventional" and "non-conventional" oil produced by fracturing, aka tight oil, which has continued further growth in oil production.
He concludes that government effort must be concentrated on sustainable development, because relatively minor improvements, for example, technology transfer to Third World countries, will not solve the underlying problem of an unsustainable economy.
that Firepower made [on the packaging] in support of the fuel saving and emission reducing properties of the Firepower Pill".
However, as of 2017, coal supplied over a quarter of the world's primary energy and about 40% of the greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels.
military has shut off an oil pipeline from Iraq to Syria that is alleged to have been carrying 100,000-150,000 barrels (24,000 m3) per day.
Taking this into account, a peak oil shock as outlined by Hirsch will have a much more severe outcome in the US compared to other parts of the world, especially Europe.
The pre-1974 recession level of 4.6% unemployment was not reached again until November 1997, when the Federal Reserve deviated from its prior policy.
He characterized the peak oil theory as part of a series of "recurring oil panics" that have "driven Western political circles toward oil imperialism and attempts to assert direct or indirect control over oil-producing regions".
ISSN 0126-6187 – via ResearchGate.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of September 2025 (link) Silvestre, G.; Matdanan, H.J.H.; Sharifuddin, P.H.Y.; De Silva, M.W.R.N.; Chua, T.-E., eds.
He appoints Senator Pete Bridgeport as his new vice president, as an incentive to protect the administration from congressional hearings on the military misadventure that had ruined the country.
The Chinese retaliate by launching a surprise airborne attack on the American base at Diego Garcia, taking control of the island.
For all its merits, Daly himself points to the existence of physical, technological and practical limitations to how much efficiency and recycling can be achieved by this proposed system.
The Nepal Oil Corporation also reported that trucks it had sent into India to retrieve fuel had only partially been supplied by Indian counterparts.
See also Hubbert peak theory Oil exploration Oil reserves Reserves-to-production ratio References Lewis, J.
The term overconsumption is quite controversial and does not necessarily have a single unifying definition.
Lobby fees paid by Arab governments to individual firms "commonly" reach levels of $50,000 and above.
United States A report in Time Magazine suggested Americans are "driving less and less each year." It noted that fewer Americans were "commuting solo" to work.
In 1995 The Times Literary Supplement ranked Small Is Beautiful among the 100 most influential books published since World War II.
Critics contend that while Duncan implies a need for stricter immigration policies, he does not adequately address the role of consumerist lifestyles in wealthier nations as a primary factor contributing to resource depletion.
The initiative spread and by May 2010 there were over 400 community initiatives recognized as official Transition towns in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, Italy and Chile.
On March 31, 2022, President Biden announced that his administration would release 1 million barrels of oil per day from the reserve for the next 180 days.
Playable in a few hours." In the 1980 book The Complete Book of Wargames, game designer Jon Freeman noted the relative unpopularity of the game, saying, "Oil War has never received much notice in wargaming circles.
At the peak, over 5 million people in Texas were without power, with 11 million experiencing an outage at some point, some for more than 3 days.
Since the 1970s, the concept of a steady-state economy has been associated mainly with the work of leading ecological economist Herman Daly.
Ten years prior to the events of the series a team of scientists, led by Professor Shizuma, created the revolutionary system.
The unreformed standard for MY 2008 was set to be 22.5mpg, 23.1mpg for MY 2009, and 23.5mpg for MY 2010.
As a significant provider of back-up electricity, the potential loss of synchronized power from Slovakia would have severely exacerbated Ukraine's energy crisis.
Nixon imposed a price ceiling on oil in August 1971 as demand for oil was increasing and production was declining, which increased dependence on oil imports as consumption was bolstered by low prices.
A serious failure in a proportionally large hydroelectric generating station or its associated transmission line will remove a large block of power from the grid that may lead to widespread disturbances.
Bridgeport becomes President, and although he enjoys personal popularity and a reputation for honesty, he cannot overcome the near-universal perception that the American government is broken beyond repair.
Cause Immediately following the power failure, electrical service providers initiated operations to identify the source of the outage and begin restoration procedures.
Starting in August 2025, increased Ukrainian drone attacks on Russian oil refineries during the Russo-Ukrainian War caused widespread damage and a significant decrease in production of refined products across the Russian oil industry, leading to a fuel crisis in the country.
The report states that The world's ecological capacity is simply insufficient to satisfy the ambitions of China, India, Japan, Europe, and the United States as well as the aspirations of the rest of the world in a sustainable way.
By 26 February, power had been restored to approximately 94% of households, although some areas continued to experience intermittent outages.
This card roughly has the effect of removing the effects of players' spells from play, while leaving their lands intact.
He also stated that "Sandu will flee, and ordinary people will suffer" and that "we have to stop her before it is too late".
Vehicle travel in the United States, which has been rising steadily since records began, started to level out before the fuel price increases and is now in decline.
The titular mecha is an advanced piece of machinery, equipped with booster rockets and hidden weapons throughout.
Even with a 10 million bpd cut, the International Energy Agency estimated that global oil stockpiles would still increase by 15 million bpd.
Additionally, hydrocarbons from Malaysia's Asam Paya field in neighbouring Sarawak are piped into Rasau.
Coal, which is still accessible, briefly becomes the main source of fuel, but quickly faces shortages.
Individual vehicles do not have to meet their fuel economy targets; CAFE compliance is enforced at the fleet level.
Natural resources (like fossil fuels), are treated as expendable income, when in fact they should be treated as capital, since they are not renewable, and thus subject to eventual depletion.
PRT is charged in addition to corporation tax, which is also payable by companies involved in oil exploration and production, although PRT is deductible in calculating profits for corporation tax purposes.
Whilst any electric grid is vulnerable to instability after the loss of a large generating source or transmission line, this can generally be dealt with without serious inconvenience to customers.
This change does not affect how the EPA calculates CAFE ratings; the new protocol changes only the mileage estimates provided for consumer information.
(WSJ) March 31: OPEC members unanimously agree to implement the cartel’s oil production cuts effective April 1, as agreed to in February.
This supplementary charge was increased to 20% in the Pre-Budget Report of December 2005, with effect from 1 January 2006, and was further increased in the 2011 budget to 32%, with effect from 23 March 2011.
However the crisis was brought to a stop after the ship Nevaska Lady on 11 November 2017 with 40,000 metric tonnes of fuel which was reported as being sufficient for twenty days.
Inserted into a vehicle's fuel tank, a single Firepower Pill was advertised as being able to treat up to 60 litres of petrol.
These are senior politicians who are now out of office and being freed from the system, are able to tell the truth.
According to the committee of those affected by blackouts in Venezuela, 32,000 power outages occurred in Zulia in 2020.
As such, the Hubbert curve has to be calculated separately for different oil provinces, whose exploration has started at a different time, and oil extracted by new techniques, sometimes called unconventional oil, resulting in individual Hubbert cycles.
Other industries, businesses and domestic customers The construction and hospitality industries were strongly affected by the energy shortage.
The first free elections in Algeria in January 1992 were won by the Islamist FIS, which led to a military coup and an outbreak of a civil war that killed hundreds of thousands of Algerians.
The investigation attributed the failure to energy distributor ISA Interchile, a subsidiary of Colombian state-owned ISA.
Burning a fraction of fossil fuel reserves will therefore lead to dangerous planetary heating, resulting in widespread crop failures, and the 6th mass extinction event.
As shown in the case of Totnes, the term "community" is broadly defined to include local people, local institutions, local agencies and the local council.
Analysts and officials, such as former President of Uruguay Jorge Batlle, have remarked that a full-fledged protocol for energetic integration of Mercosur should be outlined and brought into action as soon as possible to coordinate energy production and distribution in the region.
In his efforts to preserve and conserve land, Obama signed the Omnibus Public Land Management Act in 2009.
While the EROEI and economics of corn based ethanol are a bit weak, it paves the way for cellulosic ethanol which should have much better EROEI and economics.
A class action lawsuit was filed against Texas electricity retailer Griddy for potential price gouging by a Chambers County resident after receiving a $9,000 bill for electricity during the week of the storm, compared to an average $200 bill.
The boom generation really has two distinct halves, which in my mind I call Boomer Classic and Boomer Reboot.
According to Reuters, Crimea and Russia's far east were the first territories to experience gasoline shortages in August.
In response, President Gabriel Boric declared a state of emergency, imposed an overnight curfew from 10:00 PM on 25 February to 6:00 AM the following day, and initiated an investigation into the causes of the outage.
Victory conditions The American player wins by controlling at least 15 of the 25 oil facilities and one of three ports by the end of the last turn.
Southern Europe Market dynamics also faced potential disruption due to the limiting of Russian gas and oil transit via Ukraine.
Influences Influences include permaculture concepts as described in Bill Mollison’s Permaculture, a Designers Manual (1988) and David Holmgren’s Permaculture: Principles and Pathways Beyond Sustainability (2003), as well as David Fleming's work on community, culture and resilience.
Sweden at this time had the world's second largest ship building industry after Japan, and the spillover effects devastated shipbuilders.
Reverse fuel cell technology converts electric energy, water and nitrogen into ammonia without a separate hydrogen electrolysis process.
Economist Michael Lynch says that the Hubbert peak theory is flawed and that there is no imminent peak in oil production.
Replacing the Chevrolet Nova, the Chevrolet Citation (alongside the Buick Skylark, Oldsmobile Omega, and Pontiac Phoenix) shed 20 in (51 cm) of length, 6 in (15 cm) of wheelbase, and 800 lb (360 kg) of curb weight.
In June 2008, Daniel Yergin said that markets have helped fuel a "shortage psychology" that the world is "running out of oil".
This estimate, from Morgan Stanley, implies that almost a quarter of the world's petrol is sold at less than the market price." U.S.
A study by Volpe Transportation in 2013 noted that average miles driven by individuals in the United States has been declining from 900 miles (1,400 km) per month in 2004 to 820 miles (1,320 km) in July 2012, and that the decline had continued since the recent upturn in the US economy.
A press report cited IMF's investment manager Paul Rainford as planning a third action against a Singapore company with the goal of recovering a total of A$60 million through the three lawsuits.
(SPI) in 1975 that simulates a hypothetical invasion of oil-producing countries in the Middle East in response to the oil crisis of 1973.
Countries and cities where the car is one of many travel choices are more likely to prosper, as people can choose to drive less but are still able to travel by transit, cycle safely, walk to local shops and facilities, or choose to work or study from home.
production curve deviates from Hubbert's 1956 curve in significant ways: When oil surpluses created a glut on the market and low prices began causing demand and production curves to rise, regulatory agencies such as the Texas Railroad Commission stepped in to restrain production.
Mana Alotaiba increased production to offset the decline, and the overall loss in production was about 4 percent.
Brent finished with the more actively traded futures at $79.89 down 5 percent for the month and WTI was up 9 percent for the week, but down 2 percent for the month, to $75.67.
Theory As world oil exports approach (or pass) a global peak, the price of exported oil increases and further stimulates domestic economic growth and oil consumption in Export-Land countries, creating a positive feedback process between declining exports and higher prices.
Husseini also pointed out that population growth and the emergence of China and India means oil prices are now going to be structurally higher than they have been.
The Advisory Board was critical in efficiently apportioning limited tanker resources and managing the distribution of the limited oil resources.
This turns much of the world's underground water and lakes into finite resources with peak usage debates similar to oil.
Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that 2.3 million jobs were lost during the recession; at the time, this was a post-war record.
During its existence, the Soviet Union provided Cuba with large amounts of oil, food, and machinery.
Some economists argue that such a change in the price level can raise the inflation rate over longer periods, due to adaptive expectations and the price/wage spiral, so that a supply shock can have persistent effects.
Role of technology Technology is usually defined as the application of scientific method in the production of goods or in other social achievements.
The book rapidly surveys some basic ecological and thermodynamical concepts, which are then briefly applied to Western history.
Plot In the year 2024, significant oil reserves are discovered in the Indian Ocean, in Tanzanian territorial waters.
Meanwhile, Simmons' Twilight in the Desert seemed to Tierney to be cut from the same doom-and-gloom cloth as Paul R.
He ends the book by offering practical advice to readers about how to respond to the end of the era of cheap oil.
The Frackers: The Outrageous Inside Story of the New Billionaire Wildcatters is the second non-fiction book by the American journalist Gregory Zuckerman.
20 caverns with a storage capacity of 254 million barrels (40,400,000 m3) with a drawdown capacity of 1.5 million barrels (240,000 m3) per day.
As instability increased in the Soviet Union, later in 1990 Castro stated that Cuba was now entering that special period in time of peace.
Conventional reservoir Oil and gas are generated naturally at depths of around 4 or 5 km below Earth’s surface.
The game ends by showing Red Star fighter jets opening fire on Andrews, leaving the story open for a sequel.
See also 2024 Venezuelan blackouts 2019 Venezuelan blackouts Energy crisis in Venezuela == References ==
The problem becomes worse when several large investment banks, who had taken unhedged risks that had been intended to pay off when the United States won the war, become insolvent.
The study ends by the words:"The case for a transition to a steady-state economy with low throughput and low emissions, initially in the high-income economies and then in rapidly growing economies, needs more serious attention and international cooperation.
Other reports painted an equally dismal picture, describing Cubans having to resort to eating anything they could find, from Havana Zoo animals to domestic cats.
The law of supply and demand predicts that if fewer farmers are producing food the price of food will rise.
Firepower also claimed to its shareholders that it was taking part in joint ventures with Shell and General Motors—claims that both companies refuted.
Generation Jones is noted for coming of age after a huge swath of their older siblings in the earlier part of the Baby Boom; thus, many note that there was a paucity of resources and privileges available to them that were seemingly abundant to older Boomers.
Oil shocks In 1967, the Suez Canal closed down for eight years following the Six-Day War of that year, when Israel took and occupied the Sinai Peninsula for 15 years.
OPEC From 1980 to 1986, OPEC decreased oil production several times in an attempt to maintain oil's high prices.
Use One of the model's main practical applications has been to describe the resultant outcomes given the condition of a global shortage of fossil fuels.
Three petroleum geologists assisted Heinberg, ASPO founder, Colin Campbell, Jean Laherrere, and Walter Youngquist.
Drawdowns since 2015 Since 2015, Congress has been selling the oil in the reserve to fund the deficit, in unpublicized sales.
Shizuma and his colleagues gave the world a new era of prosperity at the expense of billions of lives.
Many of them attend "CERAWeek", the company's annual conference held at the Hilton Americas Hotel in Houston, Texas.
Its members swear allegiance to Big Fire (ビッグ・ファイア, Biggu Faia), the Group's founder and leader, with faltering loyalty punishable by death.
99, 80–57 in the House and 18–15 in the Senate along party lines, mandating that the state government and pension fund divest from fossil fuel companies by January 2026.
By September 17, the affected regions began experiencing gas shortages due to the leak and panic buying.
The UN noted that residents of high-rise urban buildings, disabled individuals, elderly citizens, and the 3.6 million internally displaced people within Ukraine were especially vulnerable during extended power outages in sub-zero conditions.
The power crisis led to criticism of the Correa administration's management of the power sector as water levels of the reservoirs became depleted.
After the withdrawal of the British workers in the autumn of 1951, the Iranians felt confident that they could easily hire non-British technicians to run the industry and then quickly train their own nationals to replace them.
July 8—United States—An explosion at a Northridge power plant caused a widespread power outage in the San Fernando Valley, Los Angeles.
The local plan identifies unbalanced development between the east and west sides of the Belait River and stresses the need to research the ecological impact on forest swamp areas and explore the potential of the Belait River as an internal port to support economic activities in the region.
On the same day, a meeting of EU leaders failed to reach an agreement on the subject, with a lack of support for expanding the European Union Naval Force in the Red Sea to cover the strait.
The shape of production curve of an oil well can also be affected by a number of nongeologic factors: Well may be restricted by choice by lack of market demand or government regulation.
By the time the fire was brought under control nearly two weeks later, all drilling equipment at the site had completely melted, leaving no identifiable remains.
Following the 1980 discontinuation of the H-platform, GM introduced the J-platform, with models for each division (except GMC).
This prompts an intervention by Tanzania's ally, the People's Republic of China, with disastrous consequences for the United States.
after President Donald Trump sided with Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and other Arab countries in imposing a blockade against Qatar.
In Canada, Jonesers voted for Progressive Conservative candidate Brian Mulroney in 1984 and 1988, though his Prime Ministership from 1984 to 1993 proved an intense disappointment to many of them.
The government signed a plan with Russia to build 4 nuclear power plants for deal worth $25 billion.
Arjuna Ranatunga the Minister of Petroleum Resources Development on the next day addressed the situation to the media.
Viral images of a helicopter de-icing a wind turbine said to be in Texas were actually taken in 2015 in Sweden.
This is regarded as one of the largest blackouts in history, taking 10 days for power to be fully restored.
Background The explosions took place with the backdrop of the 2006 Russia-Ukraine gas crisis that same month.
The dollar was up and the euro and other currencies down, and the euro area crisis made investors concerned.
Giant Robo Volume 1 (ISBN 4-04-852343-0) released August 1992 Giant Robo Volume 2 (ISBN 4-04-852441-0) released September 1993 A novelization by Hiroshi Yamaguchi was released in September 1993.
The conventional peak of oil extraction in 1970 was predicted by one of the two projections proposed by Hubbert in 1956.
Since 2003, the government has been in the process of introducing modifications that allow for tariff increases.
During March 2017 the American company Global Risk Advisors (GRA) that was formed by an ex-CIA officer by the name of Kevin Chalker, created a plan to fight against U.S.
In the summer of 2001 a drought in the northwest states reduced the amount of hydroelectric power available to California.
Coup d'état The prime minister, who was selected by the Shah and approved by the Majlis, was overthrown on 19 August 1953, following a coup d'état orchestrated by the United Kingdom and the United States.
Arab governments have paid "tens of millions of dollars" to "top" lobbying firms that work to influence the American government.
Barber was forced to introduce anti-inflation measures, along with a Price Commission and a Pay Board.
The Sunak administration that followed put a shorter time limit on the EPG which ceased to be in effect the following year as energy prices dropped.
He looked to the substantial reserves of natural gas under Taranaki and off its coast as an opportunity to bring life to the ailing economy.
This first stock is what initially stocks store shelves; afterwards Playmobil makes smaller quantities to refill shelves in accordance with demand.
Herman Daly defines his concept of a steady-state economy as an economic system made up of a constant stock of physical wealth (capital) and a constant stock of people (population), both stocks to be maintained by a flow of natural resources through the system.
The National Blood Service reported that it was coping and blood supplies to hospitals were not under threat but said that there "were some significant problems in some parts of the country".
law that required the President to promulgate regulations to allocate and control price of petroleum products in response to the 1973 oil crisis.
There may be a relocation trend towards local foods and possibly microgeneration, solar thermal collectors and other green energy sources.
In December 2025, Russian energy analyst Craig Kennedy said that new sanctions by the US, EU, and the UK are likely to substantially cut Russia's oil revenues in 2026, while intensifying what he described as the worst crisis in Russia's energy sector since the 1990s.
Thus, unemployment, which had reached a peak of 9% in May 1975, did not dip below 6% until June 1978.
Most of the world's largest oilfields are located in the Middle East, but there are also super giant (5 billion bbls) oilfields in Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, Kazakhstan, and Russia.
Due to these suspicious coincidences, Georgia accused Russia of conducting deliberate acts of sabotage with the aim of forcing the nation into surrendering its pipelines to Gazprom – the Russian state-owned monopoly.
Motunui converted natural gas from the off-shore Maui field to methanol, which it then converted to petrol on-site.
A September 26 OPEC meeting led to a decision to decrease production resulting in the biggest gains in oil prices since April.
In addition, Iraq felt Kuwait was overproducing oil, lowering prices and hurting Iraqi oil profits in a time of financial stress.
Later on the rumour was confirmed as legitimate and the reason given was that the fuel in the rejected shipment was not up to standards.
Fuel prices in the UK had risen from being amongst the cheapest in Europe to being the most expensive in the same time frame.
Schenk produced exact copies of the original toy, though some sets were modified to create new types of sets, usually military, from Hungarian history.
Lovecraft, such as the reference of a mad magician named Alhazred and an amorphous god called the Crawling Chaos.
Anderson's company Owston Nominees was alleged to have been issued 40 million one-cent shares in Firepower's Virgin Islands-based parent company Firepower BVI in June 2005, which were onsold for up to 50c a share.
The book was a national bestseller and was named among the best books of 2014 by The Financial Times and Forbes Magazine and as book of the year by the New York Financial Writers Association.
With previous events in 2015 and 2016, the collapse intensified in 2017, when in September an alleged theft of cables left the city of Maracaibo (considered the second most important municipality in the country) and its surroundings without electricity.
Unlike the symmetrical Hubbert curve fossil fuel model, the Seneca cliff model shows material asymmetry, where the global rate of decline in fossil fuel production is far steeper than forecasted by the Hubbert curve.
In Traffic in Towns, a report produced in 1963 for the UK Ministry of Transport, Professor Sir Colin Buchanan suggested that traffic would saturate early in the 21st century.
(CG&A) and others - to provide third party reports as part of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) SEC filings and SPE Petroleum Resources Management System (PRMS) for other Stockmarket listings.
Green recovery packages are proposed environmental, regulatory, and fiscal reforms to rebuild prosperity in the wake of an economic crisis, such as the COVID-19 recession or the 2008 financial crisis.
"Oil Extraction, Economic Growth, and Oil Price Dynamics." BioPhysical Economics and Resource Quality 2.1 (2017): 1.
loan guarantees to Israel and states' purchase of Israel bonds, condemnation of Israeli human rights and calls for the U.S.
A significant surplus of crude oil started in 2014–2015 and accelerated in 2016, with multiple causes.
The United States returned to the same market level by August 1993, over twenty years after the 1973–74 crash began.
The reserve is stored at four sites on the Gulf of Mexico, each located near a major center of petrochemical refining and processing.
Hungary and Slovakia issued complaints to the European Commission, threatening unilateral repercussions if their concerns were not addressed, which included blocking EU defense funds and military aid shipments to Ukraine, as well as halting their own energy and diesel exports to Ukraine.
During the last full week of March WTI fell about 5 percent to end at $21.51, with Brent down 7.6 percent for the week to $24.93.
Implementation The carless days regulations are secondary legislation under the Economic Stabilisation Act 1948 and therefore did not require approval from parliament.
Implications of a world peak A peak in oil production could result in a worldwide oil shortage, or it could not even be noticed as demand decreases in conjunction with increased prices.
Overview The Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), as amended by the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA), requires that the U.S.
Hungarian PM Viktor Orbán was the first EU leader to visit Moscow to meet with Vladimir Putin in a visit he called "a peacekeeping mission" during the prelude to the invasion, which was followed by a second visit and meeting in early July 2024 which was also dubbed by him as a "peace mission".
Previously Playmobil was licensed through a number of different companies, including Brazil's Trol, Estrela and Industria de Brinquedos do Amazonas, and Peru's BASA.
When that well-renowned wager was settled in 1990, Simon's boomster victory over Ehrlich's doomster philosophies was heralded as a triumph for Cornucopian economics.
On 24–25 February, Iran announced full or partial shutdowns in at least 25–27 provinces (out of 31) due to acute shortages of both electricity and natural gas.
The report notes that "these matters directly impacted on the ability of the investigation team to develop its findings within the agreed time period and resulted in aspects of some lines of inquiry not being fully settled".
Attempts to downscale the economy would rapidly degenerate into economic crisis and political instability on this count alone.
United States In the United States, a group of academics and activists introduced "a green stimulus to rebuild our economy" in March 2020.
Transportation demand management or travel demand management (TDM) is the application of strategies and policies to increase the efficiency of transportation systems, that reduce travel demand, or to redistribute this demand in space or in time.
Shutting down pipes Bulgargas shut down pipes providing gas to heating plants in Vratsa, Burgas and Pleven.
Pipeline fire drops Iraqi production from 600,000 barrels per day (95,000 m3/d) to 300,000 barrels per day (48,000 m3/d).
Petroleum-rich countries in the Middle East benefited from increased prices and the slowing production in other areas of the world.
However, in 2013 OPEC's figures showed that world crude oil production and remaining proven reserves were at record highs.
In exchange, these countries agreed to give annual aid to "victims of Zionist aggression", namely Egypt and Jordan ($266 million and $112 million, respectively).
In transport, as in any network, managing demand can be a cost-effective alternative to increasing capacity.
Fico credited the reopening to a combination of "sovereign pressure" from Bratislava and cooperation with the Hungarian government and the European Commission.
Because of inoperable central heating systems in Dushanbe and other cities, residents in apartment blocks had no means other than electricity to heat their homes.
This is believed to have increased support among Moldovan society for a potential unification of Moldova and Romania.
It would be some consolation for the feebleness of our selves and our works, if all things should perish as slowly as they come into being; but as it is, increases are of sluggish growth, but the way to ruin is rapid.
Approval of Think Big, at least during and soon after the time of its implementation, tended to rely on party affiliations (with National Party supporters backing the projects, while Labour Party supporters initially opposed them).
Characteristics In 2009, Jonathan Pontell wrote in an article for Politico: "We Jonesers have long been lumped with Boomers simply because we arrived during the same long post-Second World War spike in births.
Projects The core Think Big projects included the construction of the Mobil synthetic-petrol plant at Motunui, the complementary expansion of the Marsden Point Oil Refinery near Whangārei, and the building of a stand-alone plant at Waitara to produce methanol for export.
Types of fossil fuels Coal To meet the Paris Agreement target of keeping global warming to well below 2 °C (3.6 °F), coal use needs to halve from 2020 to 2030.
Brent rose less than 3 percent to $66.47 with gains limited by increased production by OPEC and others.
History In the 694 days between 11 January 1973 and 6 December 1974, the New York Stock Exchange's Dow Jones Industrial Average benchmark suffered the seventh-worst bear market in its history, losing over 45% of its value.
The concept has become confused as each discipline has tried to mold the concept to their set of tools.
Indeed, if the refineries were unable to process available crude oil then there should be a crude oil glut that would reduce crude prices on international crude oil markets.
In January 2027, Nebraska becomes the thirty-eighth state to ratify, and the United States of America officially ceases to exist.
According to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT), the Texas power grid was four minutes and 37 seconds away from complete failure when partial grid shutdowns were implemented.
If true, the collapse in demand due to the Covid pandemic from early 2020, the acceleration of previous trends (e.g.
OPEC production was poised to rise further with the lifting of international sanctions against Iran, at a time when markets already appeared to be oversupplied by at least 2 million barrels (320,000 m3) per day.
Iraq sent copies of the Council resolution to the Embassies of Iran and Indonesia, and sought the support of Venezuela.
It was released as a free pull-out game in Issue 52 of Strategy & Tactics (October 1975) with graphic design by Redmond A.
Where a generating station is large compared to the connected grid capacity, any failure can cause extensive disruption within the network.
Tierney's dubious reaction to the article prompted him to call Simmons, introduce himself, and ask Simmons to back up his claims with cash.
Recently, other non-IEA countries have begun creating their own strategic petroleum reserves, with China being the second largest overall and the largest non-IEA country.
At the same time, the rate of PRT was reduced from 75% to 50%, but various reliefs from PRT for expenditure on exploration and appraisal were withdrawn.
UN officials urged that European nations and the United States continue their current humanitarian assistance to prevent the worsening of healthcare failure, civilian casualties, and psychological trauma caused by Russian destruction of energy infrastructure and its impacts.
The loss of shipbuilding jobs devastated port cities such as Malmö, home to Kockums' shipyard, which struggled for the next 20 years.
On 23 December, the government reported that there was a new cutting of cables and damage to the towers of the Las Peonias substation, which according to the governor of the entity affected approximately 200MW of the electricity system, causing blackouts in various sectors.
If they cannot, they have nothing to offer that is worthy of the sweat of free-born men." (Part IV, Chapter 3 'Socialism') See also References External links Full Text of Small is Beautiful at ditext.com The Schumacher Institute for Sustainable Systems home page
Modelling undertaken by the WA Department of Treasury and Finance estimated that the gas crisis would affect Western Australia's exports of chemicals, metal products, textiles, clothing, footwear and rubber and plastic products.
(WP) July 31: Oil Ministers of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), meeting in Vienna, decide to keep their crude oil production quotas unchanged until their next meeting, on September 24.
Canada also significantly increased oil production during the 2000s oil crisis, mostly in Alberta in the form of the Athabasca oil sands, though a transportation and logistics crisis in Alberta has slowed continued growth in supplies.
The same year, Mercury shifted to a Ford-based chassis for its full-size model range, shedding 6 inches of wheelbase.
As president of the Senate, Vice President Bridgeport asks the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for military protection, and convenes an emergency meeting of Congress.
"Limits to Growth revisited." Reframing Global Social Policy: Social Investment for Sustainable and Inclusive Growth (2017): 295.
In a broader context, though, it is still true that investments on exploitation of energy resources, as well as energy production and distribution, are insufficient.
Production decline models The Hubbert peak theory makes predictions of production rates based on prior discovery rates and anticipated production rates.
Six states were affected (Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia), with Alabama, Tennessee, North Carolina and Georgia declaring states of emergency.
Non-unique flow characteristics in unconventional accumulations means that commercial viability depends on the technology applied to extraction.
A projected gas pipeline that would transport massive amounts of gas to Argentina was delayed by the critical political situation in Bolivia during 2003.
Lupoff reviewed the 1978 novella unfavorably, saying that although the story "bristles with amusing devices", the writing itself was unsatisfactory; he felt that there was not a spark of humanity in the book, and that the writer used "flat", "dull", "sterile" narrative prose.
The private corporations contended that their profits after the collapse of the Argentine economy were severely hurt by the freezing of domestic and industrial fees since 2002.
Sustainable Energy - without the hot air, UIT Cambridge (May 2009), ISBN 9780954452933 References External links Evolutionary psychology and peak oil: A Malthusian inspired "heads up" for humanity by Dr.
FLSC and the Mongoloid voice of the nation been almost completely ignored by all Western and Indian media; they don't have the backing of India nor Kathmandu.
Moreover, it was predicted that the oil field would produce an estimated of 30 million barrels for 15–20 years.
Position of Ukraine The Ukrainian government interpreted Fico's actions—specifically his threats to cut off crucial emergency electricity supplies—as serving Moscow's strategic interests.
Power company Vistra, which is investing $80 million to prepare its plants for cold weather, says another power crisis could happen.
Oil War: American Intervention in the Persian Gulf is a board wargame published by Simulations Publications, Inc.
== 2026 == Both Brent and WTI jumped more than 2 percent on the last day of the first full week of 2026.
See also 2008 Bulgarian Energy Crisis Energy crisis 2000s commodities boom Global storm activity of 2008 Global storm activity of 2007 == References ==
Kaos Studios stated they were looking into releasing extra maps in the future as downloadable content.
The storms triggered the worst energy infrastructure failure in Texas state history, leading to shortages of water, food, and heat.
Means by which humans capture more energy and thereby raise their carrying capacity such as takeover, tool use, scope enlargement, and drawdown are also introduced.
Suppliers then focused on supply of standard grades, creating extended pressure on the supply of the premium grades which some vehicles require.
Thus, while economic growth is often seen as a marker of progress, it comes at a significant environmental cost.
Commentators pointed to the refusal of Firepower to give detailed information about how the pill functioned and similarities between the Firepower Pill and the FE-3 pill, which had been independently proven not to increase vehicle performance.
With the developments in consumerism and growing demands for consumption otherwise, the concept of the climate debt has arisen.
There was a consensus between industry leaders and analysts that world oil production would peak between 2010 and 2030, with a significant chance that the peak will occur before 2020.
PRT is charged by reference to individual oil and gas fields, so the costs related to developing and running one field cannot be set off against the profits generated by another field.
Meat consumption needs to be reduced in order to make agriculture sustainable by up to 90% according to a 2018 study published in Nature.
Comprising experts from many fields within the energy industry, CERA was acquired by IHS Energy in 2004.
Traffic Growth in Australia, Department of Infrastructure and Transport, Australian Government, March 2012.
CERA has research and consulting staff across the globe and covers the oil, gas, power, and coal markets worldwide.
In Mumbai, many restaurants shut down fully or partially in early March, due to the lack of cooking gas.
They are delivered showing the fully developed pore structure, but have been oxidized again on the surface after manufacture and are therefore no longer pyrophoric.
The series has been broadcast on Boomerang in Latin America, CITV in Britain and Cartoon Network in Italy and Netflix and KidsClick in the United States.
A crisis can develop due to industrial actions like union organized strikes or government embargoes.
Signatories included a former president of the university, multiple department chairs, a vice provost, multiple Nobel Laureates, and members of all seven of the university's schools.
They cost almost as much to design and market but cannot be sold for as much as larger vehicles such as SUVs, because consumers expect small cars to be inexpensive.
Oil shale reserves (perhaps 3 trillion barrels (4.8×1011 m3)) and coal reserves, both of which can be converted to liquid petroleum, are not included in this chart.
However, to counter Big Fire's superhuman elements, "Experts" are recruited and granted special international jurisdiction.
"Electricity prices in California's spot markets were affected by economic withholding and inflated price bidding, in violation of tariff anti-gaming provisions." New regulations In the mid-1990s, under Republican Governor Pete Wilson, California began changing the electricity industry.
Nay, he who has said "a day" has granted too long a postponement to swift-coming misfortune; an hour, an instant of time, suffices for the overthrow of empires!
Awards 2009: Fort Lauderdale International Film Festival, Spirit of the Independent Award See also Peak oil Oil reserves References External links www.gasholemovie.com GasHole at IMDb GasHole at Rotten Tomatoes
On May 11, 2006, during the House Energy Committee meeting, Representative Anna Eshoo, D-Cal., asks why, if Exxon is not building in the U.S., are they looking for new ways to invest record profits.
Following the work of Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, Daly argues that the laws of thermodynamics restrict all human technologies and apply to all economic systems: Entropy is the basic physical coordinate of scarcity.
According to Hubbert peak theory, production starts off slowly, rises faster and faster, then slows down and flattens until it reaches a peak, after which production declines.
The authors believe this forecast to be valid 'despite the large uncertainties in the available data'.
Production would go on until the field hits its economic limit in 2060, according to economic projections.
Designated S-1, the well was drilled using the cable-tool method and was located on the Seria coastline.
Major events The blackout forced the cancellation of the third night of the 64th Viña del Mar International Song Festival, which was rescheduled.
In July 2024, the government initiated 4-hour per day blackouts affecting homes and industries despite 40 °C (104 °F) heat waves, and the severity of power shortages exceeded worst-case scenario predictions.
Although prices fell due to the likelihood of diplomatic solutions to the Iran crisis, they did rise for the week, with Brent finishing at $77.01 and WTI at $74.93.
In June 1981, The New York Times proclaimed that an "oil glut" had arrived and Time stated that "the world temporarily floats in a glut of oil".
The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, by Richard Heinberg, is an introduction to the concept of peak oil and petroleum depletion.
Taken together, these four works were seminal in bringing about the formation of ecological economics later on.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, factory output and transportation demand fell, bringing overall demand for oil down as well, and causing oil prices to fall.
Looking at the maximum extent of the Roman Empire, (60 million) and its technological base, the agrarian base of Rome was about 1:12 per hectare for wheat and 1:27 for alfalfa (giving a 1:2.7 production for oxen).
This implies that the president's staffers were so overconfident or ignorant that they could not even name their plans right, although this is not addressed in the novel.
Exemptions were issued for essential services and those with no alternatives to using their own vehicles.
The two worst crises of this period were the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 oil crisis, when, respectively, the Yom Kippur War and the Iranian Revolution triggered interruptions in Middle Eastern oil exports.
Timeline and effects In 1999, lorry drivers had undertaken protests in London against rising fuel prices and announced their intentions for a nationwide campaign.
The 1967 oil embargo was the main reason for the formation of OAPEC, which would provide a forum for the discussion of using oil politically.
College of the Marshall Islands (Marshall Islands) – in December 2014 and January 2015, the college announced that its board of regents would be adopting a policy statement divising its small endowment (about $1 million) from fossil fuels.
This budget led to a brief period of growth known as "The Barber Boom," followed by a wage-price spiral, high inflation and currency depreciation, culminating in the 1976 sterling crisis.
The fit of a line using the data points from 1956 to 2005 (in green) gives a URR of 199 Gb and a logistic growth rate of 6%.
He was examined in detail over various financial transactions, including family travel payments and transactions surrounding the purchase of his Mosman Park mansion and claimed that he was forced to buy the property by his close friend and occasional antagonist Warren Anderson.
After the destruction of Hurricane Katrina in the United States, gasoline prices reached a record high during the first week of September 2005.
The bill also adds support for initial state and local infrastructure for plug-in electric vehicles.
Independently, the OPEC members agreed to use their leverage over the world price-setting mechanism for oil to stabilize their real incomes by raising world oil prices.
There has been panic buying of petrol, but the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) has maintained stability in prices for 30 days.
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 has since directed the Secretary of Energy to fill the SPR to the full 1 billion barrels (160,000,000 m3) authorized capacity, a process which will require a physical expansion of the Reserve's facilities.
This is a list of major hydroelectric power station failures due to damage to a hydroelectric power station or its connections.
International During the conflict, allies to Ukraine provided approximately US$2 billion in technical assistance to Ukraine's energy sector, with Ukrenergo receiving more than $1.5 billion of these funds.
The crisis was referred to by energy and geopolitical experts as one of the most severe disruptions to a national power system in recent history.
Fears of grid failure The combined heating plant in Sofia produces heat and electricity from natural gas.
The International Energy Agency projected that heating capabilities would be worst impacted by regions near the conflict's front lines.
In October 2014, the ANU Council announced that it would divest from seven companies, two of which, Santos and Oil Search, performed poorly in an independent review undertaken by the Centre for Australian Ethical Research.
(NYT) March 11: The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) meets in Vienna and decides to maintain crude oil production quotas for its member countries (excluding Iraq) at 24.5 million barrels per day (3,900,000 m3/d).
The Playmobil Pro figures differ from classic Playmobil figures by their white colouration and simple designs.
It was founded further inland from the mouth of the Belait River and Kuala Belait for protection against pirates.
(The Playmobil toys were not involved in any reported choking incidents.) McDonald's customers with children under three who received these toys were advised to discontinue their use and return the toys to a McDonald's in exchange for a dessert, a cone, or a refund.
It highlighted the reality that no plan can anticipate every potential complication, reinforcing the importance of regularly reviewing and improving response strategies based on real-world events.
There were also bandhs (strikes) declared in the Terai region, curtailing Terai business but otherwise not affecting the rest of the country.
In October 2014, Divest Harvard organized a three-day fast and public outreach event to call attention to the harms of climate change.
Brent finished nearly 4 percent higher with continued threats by Iran to attack Middle East targets.
On 8 February 2011, ASIC's proceedings against Owston and other respondents were successful, the Federal Court finding that declarations and publicity orders were an appropriate form of relief for the contraventions of s727(1) of the [Corporations] Act.
During the middle of the day London's Mayor, Boris Johnson called for the creation of a National Emergency Plan.
Thus, we can derive the Hubbert curve parameters: The growth parameter k is the intercept of the vertical axis.
Other notable speakers have included former United States Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin, United States Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman, former Colorado Senator Gary Hart; former United States Secretary of Commerce Donald L.
It differed from many previous recessions by involving stagflation, in which high unemployment and high inflation existed simultaneously.
Sweden In Sweden, the recession proved devastating to the shipping, ship-building, and logging and mining industries.
During the significant oil price rise through 2007, a theme among several industry observers was that the price rise was only partially due to a limit in crude oil availability (peak oil).
In the absence of such food imports, food prices in Cuba increased, while government-run institutions began offering less food, and food of lower quality.
It is argued that this inflation resulted from increases in the cost of petroleum imposed by the member states of OPEC.
In response, Firepower claimed many notable organizations used its product - including the Australian and New Zealand military forces and a V8 supercars team, despite the fact that no fuel additives are allowed by V8 Supercar regulations.
Since petroleum is so important to industrialized economies, a large increase in its price can lead to the increase in the price of most products, raising the price level.
This report indicates that similar market pressures could reduce net worldwide oil exports by 2.5 million barrels per day (400,000 m3/d) (about 3%).
One of the key commitments made by the treaty's signatories is to maintain oil stocks of no less than 90 days of net imports.
Inbound car trip into Birmingham during the morning peak period had fallen by 29% between 1995 and 2003.
Some in Uzbekistan were able to turn to "traditional methods" for heating, and it was reported that some villages which had no trees left because villagers have cut them down to heat their homes and cook food.
Mohammed bin Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, brother of the Emir of Qatar, is alleged to be directing the U.S.
In a press release, Peter Holmes à Court announced Russell and I have been particularly keen to take the club forward in a socially responsible fashion and Firepower certainly fulfils that criteria.
Champion-1 Champion-7 (Main Complex Platform) Champion-11 Champion-41 Champion-37 Champion-38 Champion-39 Gallery == References ==
The blackout also forced the rescheduling of the Deportes Concepción versus Unión Española football match in the Copa Chile.
See also Environmental impact of the energy industry Malthusian catastrophe Societal collapse The Carbon War: Global Warming and the End of the Oil Era (book) Transition town Notes and references Further reading The End of Energy Obesity (book) De Young, R.
The Alaskan Prudhoe Bay Oil Field entered peak production, supplying 2 million bpd of crude oil in 1988, 25 percent of all U.S.
See also Power Down: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World Beyond Oil References External links Synopsis of the book by the Post Carbon Institute Abridgement of the book
News that the Royal Navy was intercepting tankers carrying Iranian oil scared off other tankers and effectively shut down oil exports from Iran.
The term has also been used to describe rapid declines in businesses that had grown for decades, with the rapid post-2005 decline and resultant bankruptcy in Kodak as a quoted example.
No peak oil The view that oil extraction will never enter a depletion phase is often referred to as "cornucopian" in ecology and sustainability literature.
After certain allowances, PRT is charged at a rate of 50% (falling to 35% from 1 Jan 2016 and was effectively abolished in the March 2016 budget) on profits from oil extraction.
A related Firepower entity, TPS Firepower, received almost A$400,000 in export grants from the government.The fraud could not have continued for so long, or become so large, had it not been for the crucial intervention of Austrade.
the field may undergo an enhanced oil recovery project, such as drilling of wells for injection of solvents, carbon dioxide, or steam.
On 30 July, the Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Ministry expressed willingness to join talks with the European Commission in order to maintain cooperation with Hungary and Slovakia.
Designed before the 1973 fuel crisis, the Mustang II was developed as a response for consumers who felt that the Mustang had grown too large through its various 1960s updates.
The Saudis were wary of the tactic due to the availability of oil from non-Arab oil producing countries, and in the decades leading up to the crisis, the region's conservative monarchies had grown dependent on Western support to ensure their continued survival as Nasserism gained traction.
The Slovak–Ukraine gas dispute was a major diplomatic and energy security crisis that began on January 1, 2025, following the expiration of the five-year natural gas transit contract between the Russian state-owned energy company Gazprom and Ukraine's Naftogaz.
The bill's standard would increase the fuel economy standards by 40 percent and save the United States billions of gallons of fuel.
Rising energy prices are pushing agricultural costs higher, contributing to increasing food prices globally.
(Jaffe & Soligo, "The role of inventories in oil market stability", Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance 42.
The WA Property Council said "Non essential power including decorative lighting in shopping centres will be switched off.
These were torn down and the empty lots lay idle for years until the food shortages forced Cuban citizens to make use of every piece of land.
Profits within the corporation tax "ring fence" have been subject to a supplementary corporation tax charge of 10% in addition to the usual 30% rate since 17 April 2002.
Written submissions to the inquiry included claims of unfair allocations of gas, inadequate communication of important information during the crisis, and the scale of the impact on individual businesses and industries.
The pipeline was shut down on September 16, and federal regulators began investigating the cause of the leak.
Cost of capital for fossil fuel projects have increased in recent years, a trend that fossil fuel companies themselves have attributed in part to divestment pressure.
In August, the capital of the state of Zulia, Maracaibo, spent up to a week without electricity due to a fire that occurred in the warehouses of an electrical transmission wiring located in the General Rafael Urdaneta Bridge, the main communication channel in that region.
The price as of the initial publishing of this article—May 10, 2008—was $125.96; the record high of $147 in July 2008 was attributed by some to a weak U.S.
Background In 2014, Ukraine entered into the European Union Association Agreement, marking a significant step towards closer ties with the West following the initial Euromaidan protests.
It grew out of his study of village-based economics, which he later termed Buddhist economics, which is the subject of the book's fourth chapter.
On February 17, residents of Austin were asked not to drip their faucets despite the risk of pipes freezing as the demand for water in the city was more than 2.5 times the amount supplied on the previous day.
The 2008 Central Asia energy crisis was an energy shortage in Central Asia, which, combined with the severe weather of the 2007-08 winter (the coldest since 1969) and high prices for food and fuel, caused considerable hardship for many.
A renewed protest that same month, involving a convoy from North East England to London, did not produce the same level of support or disruption as before.
Shortly after the weekend, Grayson responded that STX would use variable pricing in their future projects: "we have already learned from this experiment.
In July 1952, the Royal Navy intercepted the Italian tanker Rose Mary and forced it into the British protectorate of Aden on the grounds that the ship's petroleum was stolen property.
A section of the report titled "Impediments to the Investigation" refers to the investigation team's frustrated attempts to interview staff of Apache Energy in relation to pipeline inspection, monitoring, and the company's maintenance and repair regime.
Segments "Aumingjaskápurinn" - directed by Ragnar Bragason "Líkið í lestinni" - directed by Dagur Kári "Mömmuklúbburinn" - directed by Inga Lísa Middleton "Heimsyfirráð eða bleyjuskiptingar" - directed by Ásgrímur Sverrisson "Guð hrapar úr vélinni" - directed by Einar Thor Gunnlaugsson Cast Björn J.
From a rate of 5.1% real GDP growth in 1972, the UK went into recession in 1974, with GDP falling by 1.1%.
Responses 2021 Overall, the response to this rising crisis has been to return to coal and other polluting energy sources, subsidizing prices, easing gas taxes, or even lowering the price of carbon dioxide emissions.
For 1988, all GM G-body vehicles were downsized slightly and replaced by the front-wheel drive GM10 platform (later the GM W platform), which also was phased in as the replacement for Chevrolet and Pontiac variants of A-platform vehicles.
In March 1979, a vote of no confidence issued by Tory opposition leader Margaret Thatcher sparked the collapse of the Labour government and in the election in May that year, the Tories returned to power.
Earth, now a planet-sized ball of molten magma, spirals toward the Sun and is swallowed by it, finally destroying all that's left.
#BackOffIndia #BackoffIndia is a Twitter hashtag and social media campaign against alleged "intervention" by India in Nepal's internal affairs, accusing it of having caused the 2015 Nepal blockade of Nepal.
total demand all over was increasing." Friedman wrote, "the inflation arises from one and only one reason: an increase in a quantity of money." See also Stagflation Demand-pull inflation Triangle model == References ==
Transition Together (UK) A project called Transition Together exists to support groups within the UK.
The US has air domination, but the defenders have considerable ground superiority, and the race to seize the wells in the eight turns allowed is touch and go.
Publication history Oil War was designed by Jim Dunnigan less than a year after the end of the OAPEC oil embargo.
On January 16, 1979, the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, and his wife, Farah Pahlavi, left Iran at the behest of Prime Minister Shapour Bakhtiar, who sought to calm the situation.
Oil prices have now passed the previous peak in 1980, and 95% of all energy used in transport is oil.
The international press chronicles the fighting (reporters from Australia and the United Arab Emirates play a prominent role) but the Weed administration tries to keep the news out of American newspapers.
The OECD study found that trade restrictions, mainly through import tariffs, protect the domestic industry from foreign competitors but impose a cost burden on domestic biofuel users and limit alternative suppliers.
By comparison, a 2014 analysis of production and reserve data predicted a peak in oil production about 2035.
Gas remained relatively cheap in Bulgaria until 2008 when Gazprom changed the terms of the contract.
The proposition received the support of parliamentary members of the proponent PCP, and also of PS, PSD, Bloco de Esquerda and Os Verdes parties.
There were only few visible lights in the city which were from the owners of generators, factories, or people who had illegally tapped the power lines.
United States Among the causes were the 1973 oil crisis, the deficits of the Vietnam War, and the fall of the Bretton Woods system after the Nixon shock.
Given the large range offered by meta-studies, papers published since 2010 have been relatively pessimistic.
In addition, rolling blackouts adversely affected many businesses dependent upon a reliable supply of electricity, and inconvenienced many retail consumers.
However, power cuts in the year 2019 regained strength, again registering rationing in different areas of the entity.
Most opinion polls suggested that the Tories would be re-elected with a majority, but when the election results came through on the morning of 1 March 1974, no party had an overall majority.
University of Glasgow – in October 2014, the university announced plans to freeze new investments in fossil fuels and divest from fossil fuel companies over the next ten years.
The game's vehicles are faithful reproductions of various cars and trucks from the era, both in appearance and driving characteristics, though the names have been changed for licensing issues.
The sudden loss of electricity prompted an immediate emergency session by government authorities to coordinate crisis management efforts.
Olefins are thermally very unstable (which is why natural petroleum normally does not contain such compounds) and in laboratory experiments that last more than a few hours, the olefins are no longer present.
Decline curves have many advantages: they use time-based data which is easy to obtain, plot, and analyze.
Even with many nuclear units returning to service combined with anticipated imports of 1.7 GW from the European Union, analysts predicted a potential supply shortfall of 6 GW— equivalent to Denmark's entire average peak demand.
It has living accommodations, gaslift and compression capabilities, water treatment and injection facilities, and operation management for the field.
This philosophy of managing demand accepts that meeting unfettered demand for travel is impractical and that therefore the system needs to be managed.
Developing Unconventional Gas or DUG is a series of annual regional conferences of the unconventional oil industry.
Ambassador Yousef al-Otaiba allegedly targeted lawmakers and Trump allies to promote the forced displacement of Gazans, countering the Arab consensus.
Vietnam is among the worst hit in South East Asia, with only other parts of the former French Indochina facing a worse situation.
In this updated paper, Duncan identified several key points regarding per capita energy consumption: 1973: Peak per capita energy in the United States.
In 2008 several major companies including Arup, Yahoo, and Virgin created the UK Industry Taskforce on Peak Oil and Energy Security (ITPOES) and released a report, The Oil Crunch, which calls for 'collaborative contingency planning' by government and industry in the face of dwindling oil reserves.
Cause As businesses face higher prices for underlying inputs, they are forced to increase prices of their outputs.
The term engine downsizing is used when a manufacturer introduces a smaller-displacement engine (though not necessarily lower-output) for a product line in the interest of higher fuel economy.
The ageing of cities, especially their road infrastructure, much of which is at or near the end of its intended life.
Part II – casts Education as the greatest resource, and discusses Land, Industry, Nuclear Energy and the human impact of Technology.
He projected that world oil production would peak at about 12.5 billion barrels per year, sometime around the year 2000.
According to the World Bank, the highest shares of consumption, regardless of income lie in food, beverage, clothing, and footwear.
Twilight in the Desert: The Coming Saudi Oil Shock and the World Economy, Wiley (June 10, 2005), ISBN 0-471-73876-X David MacKay.
Milton Friedman criticised the concept of cost-push inflation, writing "To each businessman separately it looks as if he has to raise prices because costs have gone up.
Egret oil field, also known as Egret Field, is a complex oil and gas field in the South China Sea and 45 km north-west of Seria, Belait District, Brunei.
Although exit polls show large-scale support for Yushchenko, initial official results show Yanukovych with a 2% lead.
It consists of five intertwined episodes, each made by a different director, set in Reykjavík during a power outage.
The dark side of this vicious cycle is that we have no choice but to keep replacing certain products, which results in a huge amount of waste, known as e-waste.
The blackout was attributed to electricity distributor ISA Interchile, a subsidiary of the Colombian state-owned company ISA.
Employments and incomes depend directly on sales revenues, that is, on people spending money on the consumption of goods and services for sale on the market.
Trends in freight logistics, including a movement from rail and coastal shipping to road freight and a requirement for just in time deliveries, meant that freight traffic grew faster than general vehicle traffic.
Emerging digital technologies, if correctly applied, have the potential to play a critical role in addressing environmental issues.
Aftermath A cabinet sub committee was appointed by the President of Sri Lanka Maithripala Sirisena in order to investigate the crisis on the 7 November 2017.
Transnistrian president Krasnoselsky stated that "we knew about this possibility [the end of the transit of gas], prepared for it and were not caught off guard".
Sainsbury's fleet of food delivery vehicles: using a Dearman nitrogen engine to provide power for the cooling of food cargo when the vehicle is stationary and the main engine is off.
Response The Philippine government stated that it was exploring alternative oil suppliers and holding talks with non-traditional sources, such as China, India, and Russia, to help maintain a stable fuel supply amid global market uncertainty and price volatility.
Experimentation leads him to create an apparatus consisting of a metal disc enchanted to spin perpetually.
John Huxley of Anime Boredom "highly recommends" the series and Anime Academy gives it a grade of 88%.
Some interesting problems for both sides, but probably not enough sustained suspense for the hard-core.
The Railroad Commission blamed power producers for gas supply issues, even though its chair Christi Craddick was aware of gas supply problems prior to the outages.
Many who have planned and prepared for peak oil now see the climate crisis as an equally important—or greater—near term concern as compared with energy resource scarcity brought about by peak oil.
Alternative energy sources Following this, the Romanian state-owned company Hidroelectrica signed a contract with Moldovan state-owned Energocom company for the delivery of electricity to Moldova at prices considerably lower than the spot market price in Romania.
On January 23, 2007, President Bush suggested in his State of the Union speech that Congress should approve expansion of the current reserve capacity to twice its current level.
The original entity—Firepower Operations Pty Ltd—was a A$1 company, first registered in December 2004, owned by Firepower Holdings Group Ltd, a company with an address in the British Virgin Islands.
Preparation for future winters Despite investigations and legislation after the power crisis that killed hundreds, as of January 2022, little has changed in the electricity system and Texas remains at risk of major blackouts in another winter storm.
This is mainly due to "energy invested" varying depending on technology, methodology, and system boundary assumptions, resulting in a range from a maximum of 2000 kWh/m2 of module area down to a minimum of 300 kWh/m2, with a median value of 585 kWh/m2 according to a meta-study from 2013.
In the late stage, production often enters a period of exponential decline in which the decline becomes less and less steep.
Evans; former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, and former Secretary General of OPEC Rilwanu Lukman.
Cost-push inflation is a purported type of inflation caused by increases in the cost of important goods or services where no suitable alternative is available.
Woven into the story are values commonly associated with martial arts films like honor, loyalty and individual justice, best exemplified in the rivalry between Alberto and Taisō.
the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Australia, and New Zealand) during the 1970s, putting an end to the overall post–World War II economic expansion.
CERA researchers have predicted in September 2009 that peak demand has come and gone in the OECD world, likely sometime in 2005.
These widespread demonstrations, organized largely by the "Peace for Ukraine" civic group, were triggered by Fico's controversial visit to Moscow and his subsequent reaction to Ukraine's decision to halt the transit of Russian gas through its territory.
List of works in the series Background In "Not Long Before the End", the Warlock, a very powerful sorcerer at least 200 years old, observes that when he stays in one place too long, his powers dwindle, and they return only when he leaves that place.
Although the economy was expanding from 1975 to the first recession of the early 1980s, which began in January 1980, inflation remained extremely high until the early 1980s.
Backstop resources theory states that as a heavily used limited resource becomes expensive, alternative resources will become cheap by comparison, therefore making the alternatives economically viable options.
Basic mechanism To ease peak oil effects and to manage the long decline in the second half of the oil era, producing countries would not produce oil in excess of their present national depletion rate: i.e., roughly speaking, the oil used or exported must equal the oil produced or imported.
Groove storms the fort, fighting against an unexpectedly overwhelming opposition that leaves him with no way out.
Crude oil production has since risen sharply from 2009 through 2014, so the rate of US oil production in October 2014 was 81% higher than the average rate in 2008.
The battery room of a telephone exchange usually has arrays of lead–acid batteries for backup and also a socket for connecting a generator during extended periods of outage.
The Slovak–Ukraine oil dispute was a major diplomatic and energy crisis between Slovakia and Ukraine that escalated in February 2026.
Not only is geological capital being depleted, but the basic life-support services of nature are impaired in their functioning by too large a throughput from the human sector.
At some point, a god created an invisible shield between Earth and Sun that intercepted the solar mana and caused the eventual decline of magic on Earth.
This does not prevent a sharp rise in heating oil prices caused by a severe winter and shortage of product.
Adam Smith's concept Adam Smith's magnum opus on The Wealth of Nations, published in 1776, laid the foundation of classical economics in Britain.
The Export Land Model is important to petroleum importing nations because when the rate of global petroleum production peaks and begins to decline, the petroleum available on the world market will decline much more steeply than the decline in total production.
See also 2025 Slovak–Ukraine gas dispute 2025 Moldovan energy crisis Slovak opposition to sanctions on Russia International sanctions during the Russian invasion of Ukraine International sanctions during the Russo-Ukrainian war European Union sanctions == References ==
The story delves on the relationship between fathers and sons and the unbreakable bond that exists between them.
It also estimated that the winter would increase household heating requirements by 25%, necessitating an additional 1.5 billion cubic meters of natural gas.
Hubbert's theory is used to predict when a resource will reach its peak of production by studying past resource discovery and production trends.
A steady-state economy is an economy made up of a constant stock of physical wealth (capital) and a constant population size.
Quantification As with other mineral resource estimation, detailed classification schemes have been devised by industry specialists to quantify volumes of oil and gas accumulated underground (known as subsurface).
Daily programs usually revolve around the topics of oil, natural gas, electric power, renewables, and technology.
The developers eschewed the convention of using more detailed models for cutscenes, preferring that the game remain stylistically consistent across the interactive and non-interactive portions.
In Ricardo's times, Britain's trade with the European continent was somewhat disrupted during the Napoleonic Wars that had raged since 1803.
Slovakia, along with Hungary, voted against the regulation, expressing concerns about the impact on their energy security.
The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act, enacted in December 2015, calls for SPR sales totaling 66 million barrels from fiscal years 2023 through 2025.
The scale of modern life's overconsumption can lead to a decline in economy and an increase in financial instability.
Determining a more specific range is difficult due to the lack of certainty over the actual size of world oil reserves.
Between 2007 and 2008 the IEA changed its figures for projected rate of decline in world energy supply from 3.7% a year (2007) to a projected rate of decline of 6.7% a year (2008) leading to a peak in oil supplies in 2020.
UNICEF and Oxfam warned in November 2015 that the blockade risked subjecting Nepal to a major health crisis that could impact millions.
The corrupt police force is ineffective against rampant riots, and the area devolves into lawless chaos.
The movie does not make any effort to ascertain the veracity of the water-injected engine or other facts.
They say the "latter group's formative years occurred after the counterculture movement of the 1960s.
June 14: Nixon administration imposes 60-day economy-wide price freeze, superseding Special Rule No.
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
The regulations were first decontrolled through a phase-in process by President Jimmy Carter in 1979, and then fully withdrawn by President Ronald Reagan with Executive Order 12287 of January 28, 1981.
In the first chapter, "The Problem of Production", Schumacher argues that the modern economy is unsustainable.
Department of Energy has run at least seven sales since 2017, selling 132 million barrels, or about 18.2% of what had been in the reserve.
On 26 March, Israeli defense minister Israel Katz said that Iranian navy commander Alireza Tangsiri was killed in an airstrike, accusing him of being directly responsible for the Strait of Hormuz closure.
He noted that although the flow of oil wasn't prominently impacted by the sanctions initially, there was a "notable gap in supply" that arose at the end of July 2024, indicating a decreasing level of oil flow that he urged the EU to take a strong position towards.
The number of 17- to 20-year-olds with driving licences declined from 48% during the early-1990s to 35% in 2011, according to one report.
2018 On 11 January, the Llano Alto and Juan de Ávila sectors of Maracaibo were without electricity for 12 hours, and absence of telephone service was also reported.
The Sun gradually becomes hotter as the hydrogen at its core is consumed through nuclear fusion, resulting in the accumulation of helium, which causes the remaining hydrogen to fuse faster to maintain radiation pressure against the sun's gravity.
An energy collapse in the state of Zulia, Venezuela occurred as a result of the country's ongoing general crisis, and it is the largest of its kind in the history of the state.
In 2009 it modified its name to IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates (IHS CERA) as part of the IHS brand integration in which name changes also took place for other endorsed brands under IHS, including IHS Jane's, IHS Global Insight, IHS EViews, and IHS Herold.
2020 rollback In early August 2018, the EPA and Department of Transportation, then operating under the Presidency of Donald Trump, issued a proposed ruling that, if enacted, would roll back some of the goals set in 2012 under President Obama.
Environmental groups have speculated that this meeting was an attempt to appease them, since it is reported that a draft paper had already been produced at the time of this meeting and that half of the meeting was spent on various members introducing themselves.
Each vehicle displayed a coloured sticker on its windscreen which noted the day on which it could not be used.
"Sustainable energy system with zero emissions of GHG for cities and countries." Energy and Buildings 98 (2015): 27-33.
The area covers 2,630 hectares (6,500 acres) from the west of the Belait River to the Brunei–Malaysia border, including forest swamps and BSP concession land.
During the final week of May, oil fell for two days in a row, with low demand and high stockpiles in the United States.
This required many businesses to suspend work, as people travelled less, shopped less, and stayed at home to work more.
Iran, with promises of a quid pro quo from the Chinese for stirring up trouble, launches an invasion of Saudi Arabia, and the Americans are powerless to intervene.
The psychological work reframed as inner continued through to 2024 Energy descent action plans (EDAP) Transition towns aim to reduce dependency on fossil fuels, and one way they do this is by developing a community Energy descent action plan (EDAP).
Corporate governance issues complicated efforts to secure international investment and implement financial solutions towards upholding the electrical grid.
In an effort to split the model from the Continental Mark V, the Thunderbird was made the replacement of the slow-selling Ford Elite (becoming a counterpart of the Ford LTD II and Mercury Cougar).
Lasting only nine months, the price spike was less extreme and of shorter duration than the previous oil crises of 1973–1974 and 1979–1980, but the spike still contributed to the early 1990s recession in the United States.
Small Is Beautiful: A Study of Economics As If People Mattered is a collection of essays published in 1973 by German-born British economist E.
GamePro criticized the bland polygonal graphics, lack of detail in the backgrounds, and difficulty with simultaneously driving and shooting, but praised the funk soundtrack and characters, in particular opining that "every barb from Taurus is a treasure".
A third view is that Generation Jones is a cusp or micro-generation between the Boomers and Xers, using only the 1960s as birth years.
The stories focus on a blind man, a pregnant girl, the driver of a hearse, two recently engaged lovers and a rock band.
Rolling blackouts are also used as a response strategy to cope with reduced output beyond reserve capacity from power stations taken offline unexpectedly.
Only Italy agreed, demonstrating that most industrialized countries supported Britain over Iran in the nationalization dispute.
Victoria University (Wellington, New Zealand) – in December 2014, the university announced its intention to divest all its investments from fossil fuels, becoming the first New Zealand university to do so.
Releasing petrol station reserves - After the demand for petrol went high the Ministry of Petroleum ordered fuel stations to give put from their reserves without any hesitation.
Old and obsolete electronics are scavenged for precious metals as people engage in recycling on a massive scale.
Russian state-owned news agencies RIA Novosti and RT shared on Telegram the information on the SVR RF's report, while Russian state-owned news agency TASS, referencing the report, added on the same platform that the EU did not know how to calm "emotionally unstable" Sandu.
Growth of e-commerce such as tele-shopping, conferences, and smartphone or computer-based social networks.
Environmentalists disagree with Solow's conclusion about the role of technology because it neglects to consider the increases in exploitation of natural resources which may be responsible for much of the growth attributed to technology.
List of failures See also Dam failure List of power outages Hydroelectricity List of hydroelectric power station failures Thermal power station == References ==
There was also a distinct problem in inequality—households that could afford to run two cars could simply choose different days for the two cars and continue to drive on all seven days as before.
Mindful consumption encourages individuals to moderate excessive acquisition and repetitive consumption by aligning their behavior with broader social and environmental goals.
People from Zulia have repeatedly denounced that the schedules did not notify or respect them, as well as that the constant fluctuations could damage their electronic equipment.
EIA's 2007 International Energy Outlook estimates that tar sand production will climb to 2,300,000 bbl/d (370,000 m3/d) in 2015 and 3.6 million barrels per day (570×10^3 m3/d) in 2030.
crude inventories and a good chance of solving the Iran problem led to a nearly 3 percent drop in oil prices.
In a 2007 analysis, IIHS found that 50 percent of fatalities in small four-door vehicles were single-vehicle crashes, compared to 83 percent in very large SUVs.
cars common in Cuba are used as taxis to transport from six to eight passengers, stopping at locations as needed.
At that point, the economy would settle in a final stationary state with a constant population size and a constant stock of capital.
The neighbouring ASEAN Bridge, which intends to ease cross-border traffic and promote economic growth, supports Kampong Rasau's prospective development as a border town in late 2016.
In Germany and Canada, it is now much cheaper to heat a house by burning grain than by using fuel derived from crude oil.
The Department of Energy claims that it is approximately ten times more cost effective to store oil below the surface, with the added advantages of no leaks and a constant natural churn of the oil due to a temperature gradient in the caverns.
Swedish shipbuilders lost some 3 billion SEK in 1974, which led to problems in Sweden's steel industry.
When long lines appeared at gas stations, it became self-evident that alternatives to single-occupancy commuter travel needed to be provided in order to save energy, improve air quality, and reduce peak period congestion.
In the meantime, fuel oil supply from Venezuela has continued, amounting to 50 million tonnes sent in two ships (in April and May) by PDVSA, in a coordinated effort with the Brazilian oil company Petrobras and the Electrical Market Management Company of Argentina (Cammesa).
Arab oil producers had also linked the end of the embargo with successful US efforts to create peace in the Middle East, which complicated the situation.
Unconventional (oil and gas) reservoirs, or unconventional resources (resource plays) are accumulations where oil and gas phases are tightly bound to the rock fabric by strong capillary forces, requiring specialized measures for evaluation and extraction.
The construction of the Clyde Dam on the Clutha River formed part of a scheme to generate electricity for the national grid.
Firzli, writing in a Saudi Arabian journal World Pensions Forum, warned that the escalating oversupply could have durably negative economic consequences for all Gulf Cooperation Council member states.
On April 25, 2006, President Bush announced a temporary halt to petroleum deposits to the SPR as part of a four-point program to alleviate high fuel prices.
The fuel duty freeze has been estimated to have cost the Treasury £2billion pounds annually in a 2004 report by the Economic and Social Research Council.
Interior Minister Carolina Toha reported that three individuals dependent on electricity died during the blackout, with authorities investigating the circumstances of their deaths.
Heinberg also relies upon work done by Joseph Tainter and his 1988 book, The Collapse of Complex Societies.
The Chilean Minister of Economy and Energy, Jorge Rodríguez, warned Argentina that supply contracts with Chilean companies must be fulfilled.
Counter-intuitively, the fractional decline in exports is much greater than the sum of the fractional increase in domestic consumption and the fractional decline in production.
In September, the capital was again in the dark for more than two days after a reported failure in Sur del Lago de Maracaibo.
Crucial to the delivery of a sustainable urban transport system is integrating the TDM philosophy into urban transport planning, as well as the daily management and operation of transport services and infrastructure.
Vicious circle With more than 50% of all consumers in Sofia refusing to pay their bills, Toplofikacia ran into debt with the Bulgarian energy provider Bulgargas.
In 1977 the book Fuel Economy of the Gas Engine by Shell scientists states that they got 150 mpg in a 1947 Studebaker.
Johnston told the court that he was personally threatened by Anderson, who had used "particular people" to intimidate him.
The Seneca effect, or Seneca cliff or Seneca collapse, is a mathematical model proposed by Ugo Bardi to describe situations where a system's rate of decline is much sharper than its earlier rate of growth.
Peak oil As the controversy over peak oil intensified in 2006, CERA found itself on the optimistic side of predictions, forecasting that a peak would not occur before 2030, and this would not be a "peak" but rather an "undulating plateau".
Unlike peak oil, a theory based on a reduction in the ability to extract oil due to resource depletion, peak car is attributed to more complex and less understood causes.
It issues "Action Alerts" and encourages individual lobbying and participation in an annual national lobby day.
Historical examples Cuba, during its Special Period following the collapse of the Soviet Union, increased sugar cane ethanol production to offset lost crude oil imports from the Soviet Union.
Winter 2005 As 2004 passed with no major disruptions, some people claimed that the so-called "energy crisis" had in fact turned out a minor complication, inflated by the government and the media.
For example, the "Northeast Blackout of 2003" was caused when overgrown trees touched high-voltage power lines.
The proposition that car usage has peaked has been disputed regarding vehicle usage in the United Kingdom.
Amid massive protests, the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, fled his country in early 1979, allowing the Ayatollah Khomeini to gain control.
University of Maine System (Maine, US) – in January 2015, the board of trustees of the University of Maine System unanimously voted to divest from direct holdings in coal-mining companies.
Johnston reportedly promised significant donations to the Liberal Party and an attempt was made to secure a funding grant from the government's A$500-million Low Emission Technology Demonstration Fund.
This meant a focus on education, healthcare, centralized economic planning, and the mass mobilization of the population.
Transition initiatives have been started in locations around the world, with many located in the United Kingdom and others in Europe, North America and Australia.
Regardless, there has been much interest placed upon China's economic, political, and social shift towards consumerism.
Egypt sought to bend not only international political policy but also the policies of more moderate governments, and sought to export the socialist revolution to neighboring moderate (i.e.
Subsequently, throughout the month of February, there emerged numerous Western media reports of children dying in maternity wards of hospitals during blackouts.
The Woodstock music festival (1969) was a defining moment for older Boomers, whereas Jonesers tend to remember the Watergate scandal (1972–74) and the cultural cynicism it begat.
Colin Campbell argued that the 2000 United States Geological Survey (USGS) estimates was a methodologically flawed study that has done incalculable damage by misleading international agencies and governments.
The theory also neglects to account for certain requisite properties of the resources in question and the development of necessary infrastructure.
ERCOT admitted that there could be blackouts in winter 2022, reporting that there was enough generation for "normal" winter weather.
Additionally, the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), an environmental advocacy group, filed a suit to obtain the records of the task force meeting in April 2001.
The effects of such a shortage would depend on the rate of decline and the development and adoption of effective alternatives.
This list is concerned with severe and abnormal power outages which caused major power failures due to damage to a single thermal power station itself or its connections which take a significant amount of time - months or years to repair.
On 31 December, Energocom and Moldovagaz imported a small quantity of gas from Bulgaria via Bulgaria, Romania and Ukraine as a test, proving that it was possible to use an alternative route to supply Transnistria with gas as Energocom declared.
Petroleum reserves are typically a vast distance from consumption but can be transferred at ambient temperatures.
John DeCicco, the automotive expert for the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), estimated that this results in about 20% higher actual consumption than measured CAFE goals.
On 21 July 2008, ASIC also filed an action in the Federal Court of Australia against companies associated with Gordon Hill, Warren Anderson, Leslie Stein (Sattvic Pty Ltd) and financial adviser Quentin Ward, who is believed to have sold more than A$40 million of the shares in Perth.
Elsewhere, Deborah Pacini, Marc Perry, Geoffrey Baker and Sujatha Fernandes extensively wrote about Cuban rap music as a result of these transnational exchanges.
Then in 1979 the Iranian Revolution paralysed that country's oil-industry and 5.7 million barrels (910,000 m3) of oil per day were withdrawn from world supply.
Political activity Politically, as twentysomethings, many of these cuspers voted for Ronald Reagan in 1980 and 1984.
See also Hubbert curve Societal collapse Joseph Tainter References https://books.google.ca/books/about/The_Seneca_Effect.html?id=F14yDwAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&source=kp_read_button&redir_esc=y Further reading Bardi, Ugo (2018).
The Warlock realizes that magic is fueled by a non-renewable resource, which would cause great concern among the magicians.
Effects Beginning November 5, rolling blackouts took place across Ecuador for two to six hours per day.
In the capital and other cities, streetlights and highway lights were turned off at night to conserve power, plunging areas into darkness.
The Labour government's tiny majority was wiped out by early 1977 as a result of by-election defeats, and Callaghan managed to form a coalition with the Liberals to hang onto power.
Application Peak oil Using the curve, Hubbert modeled the rate of petroleum production for several regions, determined by the rate of new oil well discovery, and extrapolated a world production curve.
A full accounting would require considerations of opportunity costs and comparing total energy expenditures in the presence and absence of this economic activity.
As vehicle product lines completed their model cycles, automobile manufacturers developed the next generation of a vehicle with a smaller exterior footprint to allow for weight reduction and increased fuel economy, using a shortened wheelbase and body length.
While Iraq officially claimed Kuwait was stealing its oil via slant drilling, its true motives were more complicated and less clear.
The national emergency management agency, SENAPRED, confirmed the extensive nature of the blackout in an official statement.
After reaching $66.82, its highest point since September, the previous day, Brent finished at $63.76 and WTI ended at $59.19.
Due to its large number of derivatives, Chrysler would replace the K platform in the compact, mid-size, and full-size segments (with the PL, JA, and LH platforms, respectively).
TN has run seven conferences: Nailsworth (2007), Royal Agriculture College, Cirencester (2008), Battersea Arts Centre (2009), Dame Hannah's at Seale Hayne (2010), Hope University, Liverpool (2011), Battersea Arts Centre (2012) and Dame Hannah's at Seale Hayne (2015).
Very large tanks for LN2 are sometimes pressurized to less than 25 psi to aid in transferring the liquid at point of use.
Smith believed the laws and institutions of China prevented this country from achieving the potential wealth its soil, climate and situation might have admitted of.
As mentioned, Interstate '76 utilized an improved version of the MechWarrior 2 game engine, which was built in-house by Activision.
(NYT, AP, WP) December 18: Yuganskneftegaz, the largest subsidiary of Yukos, is auctioned off to a previously unknown company called Baikal Finans Group (BFG) for a well-below-market value of $9.4 billion.
Industrial and commercial consumers' tariffs have already been raised (near 100% in nominal terms and 50% in real terms), but residential tariffs still remain the same.
Initiating a mitigation crash program 20 years before peaking appears to offer the possibility of avoiding a world liquid fuels shortfall for the forecast period.
Criticism of the principle of attractiveness Critics of Duncan's theory have highlighted xenophobic and racist cultural biases, particularly concerning the principle of attractiveness.
In a series of international comparisons starting in 1993 and continuing until his death in 2011, the American researcher Lee Schipper and his colleagues noted that car traffic growth had slowed or ceased in a number of developed economies.
The government groups found that the auto industry had been successfully innovating and pushing towards lowering greenhouse gas emissions.
The Phase 1 project was planned to be completed by August 2003 (at the cost of US$ 22 million), while Phase 2 was predicted to be in 2006, with the development probably costing US$ 79 million.
Officials acknowledged that current law restricts the DOE from capping prices, prompting Energy Secretary Sharon Garin to call for a review of the Oil Deregulation Law, arguing that the current free-market framework is insufficient in periods of volatility.
Additionally, Hopkins also wrote that the movement does have an understanding of global economics and is critical of its systemic problems such as being "growth-based".
(NYT, WSJ, AP) August 14: Russia approves a $13 billion merger between Yukos and Sibneft, creating "YukosSibneft," Russia's first "supermajor" and one of the world's largest publicly traded oil companies.
It was a difficult shift during the Special Period to adjust to a new way of managing the transport of thousands of people to school, to work and to other daily activities.
It is helpful therefore to consider different approaches to sustainable transport along a spectrum of viewpoints, ranging from weak to strong sustainability.
On April 13, 2026, President Marcos said the government removed excises on liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and kerosene to help ease rising fuel costs for households.
In State of the World 2005, Worldwatch Institute observed that oil production was in decline in 33 of the 48 largest oil-producing countries.
Influential journalists like Clarence Page and Peter Fenn singled out Generation Jones voters as crucial in the campaign's final weeks.
Khartoum Resolution The Khartoum Resolution issued on September 1 allowed the moderate oil-producing nations (Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Libya) to resume oil exports and regain this critical source of revenue without risking disquiet or even overthrow from their more radical citizens.
There were other offices in Sydney, China, Rhodes, Athens and Papua New Guinea, according to the now-defunct official company website.
Critique After the predicted early-1970s peak of oil production in the U.S., production declined over the following 35 years in a pattern closely matching the Hubbert curve.
Despite the announcements, blackouts have continued to occur, to which the authorities have responded that it is due to breakdowns.
Moreover, latter that year, British Malayan Petroleum Company constructed a telephone line along the Kuala Belait Beach which linked up Seria and Rasau with their main headquarters in Kuala Belait.
Trucks – canopies and steps were added to accommodate more passengers and protect them from the natural elements; or open "dump-truck buses" are used.
This was an effective measure to negate the oil embargo as there was no consensus on what countries to embargo, and more importantly, oil shipped to a European country could then be shipped to any of the embargoed countries.
The Champion West field was discovered in 1975 by well CW-1 and it is located approximately 7 km north-northwest of the Champion Main field and 15 km northeast of Iron Duke.
Graphic novel adaptation The Magic Goes Away was adapted by Paul Kupperberg and Jan Duursema as a graphic novel in 1986, as the sixth in the DC Science Fiction Graphic Novel series.
If they develop the big ones first, which one must assume they did, you are down to well, still nice oilfields but of a modest scale, and so I suppose the other discoveries they made have made are smaller by orders of magnitude ...
This established duties on all public bodies and regulators to end the use of fossil fuels "as fast as technologically practicable," with strict exceptions if absent technical alternatives.
Because of the mine's construction in salt deposits, fresh water would erode the ceiling, potentially causing the structure to fail.
Kyrgyzstan In Kyrgyzstan, also rich in hydroelectric resources, the cold weather had made demand 10% higher than in the winter of 2006/2007, which depleted the main Toktogul reservoir for hydroelectric power.
The Freecycle Network, as one such method, is a network of people in one's community that are willing to trade goods for other goods or services.
For the short and medium-term, oil production decline occurs in a predictable manner based on geological circumstances, governmental policies, and engineering practices.
History In the late 1970s, New Zealand's economy was suffering from the aftermath of the 1973 energy crisis, from the loss of its biggest export market upon Britain's joining the European Economic Community, and from rampant inflation.
The 2013 general synod of the United Church of Christ (UCC) passed a resolution (sponsored by the Massachusetts Conference and ten other conferences of the UCC) outlining a path to divestment of church funds from fossil-fuel holdings.
However, a contrasting view suggested that e-commerce was not a substantial factor explaining less car travel in the United States.
A target level of fuel economy would have been established for each increment in footprint using a continuous mathematical formula.
Citizens were asked to reduce their consumption in all areas and to use public transport and carpooling.
Japan's defensive strategy was explained to Kissinger when he met with top leaders in Tokyo in November 1973.
It may be possible to design a car to run on hydrogen, but widescale construction of a hydrogen infrastructure is a far more complex problem, especially in a scenario in which the major resource is already becoming scarce.
Threats to the electrical grid include cyberattacks, solar storms, and severe weather, among others.
The explosions suspended gas supply to Georgia at a time when the weather was particularly cold, leading to allegations of deliberate energy blackmail carried out by the Russian government.
Players who purchased Frontlines: Fuel of War from Circuit City received a copy of the Frontlines: Fuel of War soundtrack.
Harsh winter The situation was exacerbated by the cold winter, with temperatures reaching -20 degrees Celsius.
He also described $120–$150 per barrel as the "break point" for oil, the point where demand erosion would affect the price rise.
See also 1970s energy crisis List of recessions in the United States List of recessions in the United Kingdom Phillips curve Steel crisis 1973–1974 stock market crash References Further reading Meltzer, Allan H.
Economic research in 2015 concludes that firms are shown to be more incentivized toward innovations on fuel economy while the expenses of other safety considerations are undetermined.
Although production in other parts of the world was increasing, the peaks in these regions began to put substantial upward pressure on world oil prices.
In September 2021, almost 21 years since the last fuel crisis, which took place in September 2000, panic buying of fuel was reported to be caused by media reports of a leaked government briefing discussing the shortage of heavy goods vehicle (HGV) drivers.
(The company had originally been a producer of casket ornaments and handles.) Beck spent three years from 1971 to 1974 developing what became Playmobil.
UN experts announced on 10 October that almost one-third of Tajikistan's 6.7 million inhabitants did not have enough to eat for the winter of 2008–09.
In popular culture Transition towns have been featured in the plot line of the long-running BBC Radio 4 series The Archers.
crisis energética (in Spanish) Crisis energética - Ficción asesina (in Spanish) ¿Cómo impacta la crisis energética argentina en el mercado eléctrico?
Background There have been several gasoline crises in Russia since the 2010s started, most recently in 2023.
(NSAI), Lloyd's Register (LR Archived 2019-04-15 at the Wayback Machine), Evolution Resources, Cawley, Gillespie & Associates Inc.
And you know, I was too young for the formative period of the '60s civil rights, sexual revolution, Vietnam War.
Croatia confirmed that the Adria pipeline (JANAF) is already actively transporting non-Russian crude to refineries in both nations, with additional seaborne shipments already in transit to Croatian terminals.
Cruz on February 22 tweeted the news about the hike of electricity rates in Texas, calling "(s)tate and local regulators should act swiftly to prevent this injustice".
Interstate '76 was a runner-up for Computer Gaming World's 1997 "Action Game of the Year" award, which ultimately went to Quake II.
On 28 October another breakdown occurred, this time on the Arreaga Central line after the fall of a tree, according to authorities, which caused electrical failures in several sectors of Maracaibo.
This incident exposed serious shortcomings in the existing oil spill contingency procedures, which had last been updated in January 1988.
Neither is dispatchable, as there is no control over when the sun will shine or when the wind will blow.
Brexit Former chief negotiator EU to the UK Michel Barnier, Candidate for Chancellor of Germany Olaf Scholz, French Secretary of State for European Affairs Clement Beaune, and Deputy Leader of Ireland Leo Varadkar, linked the crisis to Brexit – the UK's withdrawal from the EU.
It's annoying, but it doesn't really matter too much because the game oozes style from every pixellated pore.
Future action on such environmental concerns, ranging from climate change to smog, has severely hurt the notion that oil demand would forever rise.
Infrared spectroscopically detected surface imides (NHad), surface amides (NH2,ad) and surface ammoniacates (NH3,ad) are formed, the latter decay under NH3 release (desorption).
This situation has led to severe underinvestment and unavailability to keep up with an increasing demand, factors that contributed to the 2003-2004 energy crisis.
CERAWeek Some of the company's largest clients include international energy companies, energy consumers, governments, utilities, technology companies, and financial institutions.
Such a system could include a tax shifting from income to depleting natural resources (and pollution), as well as the limitation of advertising that stimulates demand and population growth.
The title "Small Is Beautiful" came from a principle espoused by Schumacher's teacher Leopold Kohr (1909–1994) advancing small, appropriate technologies, policies, and polities as a superior alternative to the mainstream ethos of "bigger is better".
Traffic into London during the morning peak period had fallen 28% between 1994 and 2003 when the London congestion charge was introduced and a further 12% by 2004.
Hydraulic fracturing (fracking) or acidizing may be used to cause a sharp spike in production, and may increase the recoverable reserves of a given well.
Yamaki recalls that it was a good idea to use their advanced techniques to create three-dimensional character animation to portray Yokoyama's characters.
20th sanctions package On February 23, Slovakia joined Hungary in blocking the European Union's 20th sanctions package against Russia, preventing its adoption ahead of the fourth anniversary of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
The origins of the crisis have been attributed to the 1972 Conservative "dash for growth" budget initiating the inflation cycle.
The crash came after the collapse of the Bretton Woods system over the previous two years, with the associated 'Nixon Shock' and United States dollar devaluation under the Smithsonian Agreement.
On April 2, Iranian foreign minister Abbas Araghchi assured his Philippine counterpart, Secretary Tess Lazaro, that Philippine vessels, energy shipments, and Filipino seafarers would be allowed safe and unhindered passage through the strait.
Part IV – presents a sketch of a Theory of Large Scale Organization, takes issue with platitudes about capitalism as a social order and discusses alternatives.
Declining oil prices rendered this process uneconomic and saw a reduction in the production of synthetic fuel; however, the industry still remained at large due to prior investment.
Tierney is (as was Simon) an avowed Cornucopian, believing in the ingenuity of humankind to adapt and improvise.
November 4—United States—190,000 customers (more than half of the county's 365,000 households) in Snohomish County, Washington, were without power for several days after a windstorm swept through the area with wind speeds of up to 80 mph.
The transition movement featured in the 2015 film Demain Publications Books A number of books have been published on specific topics, including: how communities can develop their Transition town initiative.
The second day of the 2025 Chile Open continued despite transmission interruptions; however, the matches scheduled for broadcast at night had to be rescheduled.
Ford experienced a similar market rejection of the Fairmont and introduced the front-wheel-drive Ford Tempo in 1984.
The inflationary recession, combined with an expansionary government fiscal policy and a generous collective wage agreement among unions in 1974–1976, put Sweden on a highly inflationary path: the price index quintupled between 1972 and 1995.
The UN's World Food Programme also declared the food situation as being in emergency shortage, in both cities and rural areas.
The "Seneca effect" model is related to the "World3" model from the 1972 report The Limits to Growth, issued by the Club of Rome.
United Kingdom legislation United Kingdom primary legislation that has introduced and amended Petroleum Revenue Tax includes: Oil Taxation Act 1975 (c.
The USA turned to unconventional reservoirs to achieve their goals, which had been known about for decades but had previously been too costly to be economically attractive.
Less than two weeks later, on 20 August a second major fire broke out during a thunderstorm, likely caused by lightning, destroying two more storage buildings across the road and resulting in an estimated M$400,000 in damage.
In 2008 this led to huge losses of the Toplofikacia company and it ran into debt with the Bulgarian energy provider Bulgargas.
The film rights to the game were acquired in March 1998 by 20th Century Fox and Davis Entertainment, but nothing came of the project and was cancelled.
Honoring the 50th anniversary of Small is Beautiful in 2023, the Schumacher Center for a New Economics commissioned an updated study guide from British author and Journalist David Boyle.
oil companies with pre-sanctions holdings in Libya to negotiate on their return to the country if and when the United States lifts economic sanctions.
"Environmental Impacts And Social Concerns - A Case Study Associated With Petroleum Exploration Activities From Onshore Baram Delta, NW Sarawak".
According to Ricardo, the limits to growth were ever present due to scarcity of arable agricultural land in the country.
Nearly a week later WTI reached $108.21, highest since March 25, before both WTI and Brent fell more than 5 percent on April 19.
This has caused severe damage to the South African economy and has played a large part in limiting the country's economic growth.
Full-size (Panther, 1979–1980) For the 1979 model year, Ford became the final American manufacturer to introduce downsized full-size product ranges.
This caused a heavy gas deficit in Transnistria that caused several large companies in the separatist republic to cease their activities.
On 18 June, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd told Federal Parliament that Premier Carpenter had established a Gas Supply Coordination Group, involving government agencies and industry representatives.
These squatters, offensively termed "Palestinos" (in homage to Palestinian refugees), were officially denied welfare rights because they had no formal home address.
When the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil increased 250 percent between 1978 and 1980, the oil-producing areas of Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Colorado, Wyoming, and Alaska began experiencing an economic boom and population inflows.
It appears that managing travel demand has largely been compartmentalized as a set of “soft measures” to promote sustainable travel options or programs to promote and offer shared ride arrangements.
The Magic Goes Away is a fantasy novella written by Larry Niven in 1976 and published in book form in 1978 with illustrations by Esteban Maroto.
The numbers disclosed by some national governments are suspected of being manipulated for political reasons.
Discoveries increased exponentially in the 1970s and 1980s, and new fields were developed throughout the continental shelf.
2020s An October 2021 article by Fortune journalist Sophie Mellor predicts that 2025 will mark peak oil demand, though mentioned that the International Energy Agency stressed trillions of dollars in renewable energy investment.
According to one of the authors Julia Steinberger: "To protect ourselves from the worsening climate crisis, we must reduce inequality and challenge the notion that riches, and those who possess them, are inherently good." The research was published on the site of the World Economic Forum.
The Blueprint recommends the use of Transportation Demand Management (TDM) strategies, policies, and regulations to increase the efficiency of our transportation systems.
In turn, this led to higher rates of consumption of "super" unleaded and diesel which are typically available on UK forecourts, until they also ran out.
The EIA estimates global coal-to-liquids production will climb to 600,000 bbl/d (95,000 m3/d) in 2015 and 2,400,000 bbl/d (380,000 m3/d) in 2030.
In March 2010, it was reported that former Western Australia state Labor government minister Gordon Hill, facing a A$5 million lawsuit, had declared bankruptcy.
Protecting the power system from outages In power supply networks, the power generation and the electrical load (demand) must be very close to equal every second to avoid overloading of network components, which can severely damage them.
A sacred fire is usually kept separate from any cooking fire, and may be placed in or near a ceremonial enclosure.
(3 October 1913 – 21 June 1998), Archbishop of Turin, declared as a Servant of God in 2014 Paul Zoungrana, M.Afr.
The term is sometimes used to refer to a person who guides people through religious sites, such as churches, and explains the various artifacts.
The name "Rishi" (pronounced "ruesi") is also the basis of one of the letters of the Thai alphabet, so reu-si (Thai: ษ ฤๅษี).
The ceremony is often very draining for the yuwipi man because of the focus needed to interact with the spirits and because the spirits use his life energy to heal the participants.
It is used in Hindustani classical music to recognize master performers for classical singing and other performing arts, like classical dance.
Their rituals often involve "martial" elements, such as the use of the sundang (wavy-edged machete) in trance dances to ward off rival sorcerers or malevolent spirits.
This is true of man in general and the [Vedic] Keśin in particular, but the latter has mastered and transformed these contrary forces and is a visible embodiment of accomplished spirituality.
The Vidhana which he wrote helped simplify the rites and rituals written in the Shrauta and Gruhya shastras (scriptures).
The structure of Russian- and south-eastern European muftiates were never prescribed by Islamic doctrine, but instead are based on the principle of an all-encompassing legal and administrative order in parallel fashion to Christian dioceses with the purpose of regulating the Islamic religion.
Gossain, Gosain, Gosine, Gosyne, Gosein, or Gossai is a Hindi word derived from Sanskrit: गोस्वामी, romanized: gōsvāmī, lit.
These can be treated by skilled shamans, but were more often relegated to apprentices or assistants specializing in healing or herbalism.
Pastoral care occurs in various contexts, including congregations, hospital chaplaincy, prison chaplaincy, psychiatry, crisis intervention, telephone helplines, counseling centers, senior care facilities, disability work, hospices, end-of-life care, grief support, and more.
See also Glossary of Islam Imam Marabout Mawlawi Mullah Marja Sheikh Rumi, Persian poet also known as Mawlana == References ==
The Museum of Army Chaplaincy holds archive material and information relating to the history of the Chaplains General to the British Army both past and present.
In the past before matches and easy ways of making fire under wet conditions, it was necessary for someone to always be present to keep the flames or red coals burning for long periods of time.
A medicine man or medicine woman is a traditional healer and spiritual leader who serves a community of Indigenous people of the Americas.
Mandaeism In Mandaeism, novices who are being initiated into the Mandaean priesthood are called šualia (Classical Mandaic: ࡔࡅࡀࡋࡉࡀ).
Thailand In Thailand, a country which never had a tradition of fully ordained nuns (bhikkhuni), there developed a separate order of non-ordained female renunciates called mae chi.
The Hebrew Bible (or Old Testament) uses the Hebrew word רעה (roʿeh), which is used as a noun as in 'shepherd', and as a verb as in 'to tend a flock'.
See also Archipheracite, another past title in synagogues References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; et al., eds.
Though they manage the paperwork and office (called the "chancery"), they have no actual jurisdictional authority: the bishop of the diocese exercises decision-making authority through his judicial vicar, in judicial matters, and the vicar general for administrative matters.
Before the office was dissolved, it has been criticised from opposition groups who viewed the mufti's alignment with the government as compromising religious independence.
Full text collections of Reform responsa are available on the website of the Central Conference of American Rabbis.
In the 19th century, the Austrian Habsburgs and Russians expanded into southeastern Europe, carving territory out of the Ottoman Empire and helping establish newly independent countries.
Their purpose is to offer religious church services, counseling, and moral support to the armed forces, whether in peacetime or at war.
Examples are Nagarjuna [Skt.]: Na ga’i dzu na/Klu sgrub; Aryadeva (Karnaripa) [Skt.]: Ka na ri pa/’Phags pa lha; and Ghantapa [Skt.]: Ghanda pa/rDo rje dril bu pa, to name a few.
Twelver and Ismaili Shi'a believe that these imams are chosen by God to be perfect examples for the faithful and to lead all humanity in all aspects of life.
When the monks fled to their monastery in Kells, following the 9th-century Viking raids on Iona, their abbot continued to hold the title of coarb to reflect his direct inheritance: many of the early abbots were members of Columba's family.
Eastern Orthodoxy In the Eastern Orthodox Church, a candidate may be clothed as a novice (Slavonic: послушник, poslushnik, literally "one under obedience") by the hegumen (abbot) or hegumenia (abbess) after at least three days in the monastery.
The Ottoman Empire had a similar territorial division called a kadiluk, which was more concerned with justice and taxation than religion.
Ancient Rome There were four chief colleges of priests in ancient Rome, the most illustrious of which was that of the pontifices.
Concordance lists For the identification of individual mahasiddhas the concordance lists published by Ulrich von Schroeder are useful tools for every scholar.
Buddhism All Buddhist traditions have nuns, although their status is different among Buddhist countries.
Capable men who would lead well were preferred over an ineffectual direct heir, as there was no basis in the majority Sunni view that the head of state or governor should be chosen based on lineage alone.
In Burmese Buddhism, several honorific terms exist for Buddhist monks, reflecting their achievements and how many vassas they have passed.
Chökyi Nyinche According to Fabrice Midal, the tenth Trungpa tulku rejected his role as fundraiser for the Surmang monasteries and preferred to live as a disciplined meditation practitioner.
The Mahābhārata list explicitly refers to the saptarshis of the first manvantara and not to those of the present manvantara.
Yuwipi Ceremony Spirits The spirits called upon vary with individual medicine men, as well with the goals of the ceremony.
Researchers have further categorized contemporary miko in terms of their diverse traditions and practices.
James Mooney's writings concerning the Ani-Kutani From the writings of James Mooney, Myths of the Cherokee, section 108 "The Massacre of the Ani'-Kuta'ni.
The term qäsis (Ge'ez: ቀሲስ, Amharic: ቄስ qes; Tigrinya: ቀሺ qäši), which refers to married priest in the Ethiopian and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Churches, is a synonym for kahen, an unmarried priest, among the Beta Israel.
At present, the most prominent among them is Ali al-Sistani; who also serves as the head of the Hawza of Najaf.
The rosh yeshiva is required to have a comprehensive knowledge of the Talmud and the ability to analyse and present new perspectives, called chidushim (novellae) verbally and often in print.
God's Wife of Amun – the highest-ranking priestess of the Amun cult Ancient Israel The High Priest of Israel served in the Tabernacle, then in Solomon's Temple and the Second Temple in Jerusalem.
Temple boys may undertake the formal step of sāmaṇera ordination as part of their role, depending on their age and local custom.
surrogare, to substitute for), is the deputy of a bishop or an ecclesiastical judge, acting in the absence of his principal and strictly bound by the authority of the latter.
Most congregations or places of worship have a strict vetting process for their youth ministers, including but not limited to background checks, educational requirements and previous relevant experience.
In Iran, until the early 20th century, the term mullah was used in Iranian seminaries to refer to low-level clergy who specialized in telling stories of Ashura, rather than teaching or issuing fatwas.
The temple of Ourania, which was one dedicated to Aphrodite, was the place in which Aphrodite would be intimate with her sacred prostitutes.
By the constitution Inter cetera of 20 January 1521, Pope Leo X appointed a rule for tertiaries with simple vows.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Tarachand K.C., Devadasi Custom – Rural Social Structure and Flesh Markets, New Delhi: Reliance Publishing House, 1992.
Swami ([sʋaːmiː]; Sanskrit: स्वामी, romanized: svāmī; sometimes abbreviated sw.) in Hinduism is an honorific title given to an ascetic who has chosen the path of renunciation (sanyāsa).
The Asvalayana sutra indicates that a non-dvija child may also be inducted into the Dvija category, if he wishes to pursue the duties associated with these varnas.
The Society of Jesus is an example of an institute that obtained recognition as a religious order with solemn vows, although the members were divided into the professed with solemn vows (a minority) and the "coadjutors" with simple vows.
Brothers share equal status and rights with seminarians and priests in their communities with the exception that canon law currently requires that mixed communities elect an ordained minister as provincial; however, some dispensations to this rule have been granted.
Today kohanim retain a lesser though somewhat distinct status within Judaism, and are bound by additional restrictions according to Orthodox Judaism.
After the death of Ibn Baz in 1999, King Fahd appointed Abdulaziz Al-Sheikh, a member of the Al-Sheikh family, who served as Grand Mufti from 1999 until his death on 23 September 2025.
By the eve of World War I, the Ottoman state, despite its weakness relative to Europe, represented the largest and most powerful independent Islamic political entity.
Orthodoxy The priesthood obligations of Orthodox clergymen are outlined by John Chrysostom (347–407) in his treatise On the Priesthood (De Sacerdotio).
Initiations or ritual empowerments are necessary before the student is permitted to practice a particular tantra, in Vajrayana Buddhist sects found in Tibet and South Asia.
After the dissolution the Ottoman Empire the office of the Grand Mufti has been adopted in a number of countries across the Muslim world, often serving the role of providing religious support for government policies.
Also in the 1930s, the minister Norman Vincent Peale and the psychiatrist Smiley Blanton collaborated to form the American Foundation of Religion and Psychiatry, now known as the Blanton-Peale Institute.
In Sikhism, the scripture Adi Granth is considered to be last Guru hence the book is worshiped as like human Guru.
In 1963, the American Association of Pastoral Counselors was founded to provide professional certification for pastoral counselors and pastoral counseling centers.
He later went on to chair the Hurd Commission which produced a review of the roles and functions of the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Joachim Herrmann and Evamaria Engel, on the other hand, recognized that priests influenced political decisions with the help of oracles and their authority.
It literally means "precious one", and may refer to a person, place, or thing—like the words "gem" or "jewel" (Sanskrit: Ratna).
The Upanishads assert that one's birth does not determine one's eligibility for spiritual knowledge, only one's effort and sincerity matters.
The word is a combination of Sanskrit word "acharya" (teacher) and the Burmese honorific "taw," which is used to denote nouns of religious or royal significance.
Latin Church In the Roman rite, the senior Cardinal Deacon is the Cardinal Protodeacon of the Holy Roman Church.
Unlike many other Islamic leadership positions, the Aga Khan's authority combines religious interpretation with significant involvement in education, healthcare, cultural preservation, and economic development.
Itako perform the ceremony using Tsugaru dialect, and a series of "taboo words" that are not understood by all native Japanese speakers.
Buddhism Christianity Eastern Orthodox The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Protestantism Note: due to the wide variety of Protestant practices there is not a standard form of address.
1305) was followed first by a Duoerjibale (Dorje Pal) in 1305–13, and then Sangjiayizhashi (Sanggye Tashi) in 1313–14.
About 1000 years after the era of Solomon and David, another widely known intervention occurred known as "The spiritual intervention of Hanina ben Dosa and Rabbi Abaye" which ended up curbing her malevolent powers over humans.
Traditional training The position of a shaman passed from generation to generation, but sometimes someone not directly descended from a shaman went voluntarily into training or was appointed by the village chieftains.
See also Akhund Abdul Ghaffur Clericalism in Iran Turban knocking Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists Kyai, similar term in Indonesia Ulama Seghatoleslam References Further reading Gibb, H.
An archipheracite was a minister of Jewish synagogues, who were charged with reading and interpreting the perakim (chapters), where the titles and chapters of the law and the prophets are found.
According to Jianping Wang, "In the Sufi doctrine found in E[ast] Turkestan, the ishan has a serene nature, acting as an intermediary between Muslims and Allah.
References Sources "Descriptio Lapponiae", Nicolaus Lundius Lappo (1905) Suomen sanojen alkuperä, Finnish Literature Society (2000)
Gonagas possessed a special level of spiritual knowledge and claimed to have the ability to transform into a bird figure to "fly" over mountains.
Greek muftiates Office of the Grand Mufti of India (Barelvism) Office of the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Kazakh muftiates Kosovar muftiates Kyrgyz muftiates Lithuanian muftiates Macedonian muftiates Malaysia Malaysia has a unique system of collective mufti.
Although Reform stresses the individual autonomy of its membership, it never completely abandoned the field of responsa literature, if only to counter its rivals' demands.
Conversely, some fundamentalist Protestants (including Alexander Hislop and Charles Chiniquy) have used the term to refer to the papacy and the members of the Roman Curia.
Notable shaykha include the 10th-century Shaykhah Fakhr-un-Nisa Shuhdah and 18th-century scholar Al-Shaykha Fatima al-Fudayliyya.
A Drumkeeper is a common name for someone in an Indigenous community who has inherited a traditional sacred drum and the right to play it in ceremony, or been instructed by their Elders in how to make and play one in order to fulfill this role.
In the Indian subcontinent, the word mantrik & similar names are synonymous with magician in different languages.
Chaplains do not hold a standard military rank, and are usually addressed as Padre, Reverend, or, more informally, Bish.
The hogon may conduct rituals in the Sanctuaire de Binou, a special building the door of which is blocked with rocks.
Sometimes these mystagogical instructions were not given until after the catechumen had been baptized.
Traditionally, they were thought to be able to manipulate fate on their or their followers' behalf and they could grant miracles or inflict divine punishment on people in the afterlife or the mortal world.
Early Native American tribes around the Great Lakes region, taught that the mystagogue was a spiritual leader, and upon death would transform into a beast with many heads.
The term is widely used in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India, and is also used for a man who has higher education in Islamic theology and sharia law.
Pliny reports that Mark Antony's soldiers smashed an enormous statue of the divinity made of solid gold and then divided the pieces amongst themselves.
Education To become a Shinto priest, a novice must study at a university approved by the Association of Shinto Shrines, typically Tokyo's Kokugakuin University or Ise's Kogakkan University, or pass an exam that will certify their qualifications.
The erenagh originally had a tonsure but took no other holy orders; he had a voice in the Chapter when they consulted about revenues, paid a yearly rent to the Bishop and a fine on the marriage of each daughter.
History Tenure of Montazeri (1985–1989) The Assembly of Experts elected Hussein-Ali Montazeri, one of Khomeini's students, to this position on 15 July 1985.
In Cameron’s opinion there is no distinction between the men’s wise sayings and that of Amma Sarah and Amma Syncletia.
The process of recognition must also be taken into account: it is probable that the wu was chosen or acknowledged as such according to different criteria to those adopted for the king.
Soviet-era muftiates Ukrainian muftiates Uzbek muftiates See also Muftiate Grand Mufti Mufti == References ==
Shaunaka (Sanskrit: शौनक, IAST: śaunaka) is the name applied to teachers, and to a Shakha of the Atharvaveda.
Mashgichim play social as well as technical roles in explaining kosher rules to the Jewish and non-Jewish community and forging close relationships with employees and customers.
Function At the beginning chaplain and Caudatario of a cardinal were two distinct figures, but then they merged into one.
Himmat Singh, one of the original Panj Piare of Sikhism was believed to be his reincarnation (avtar).
In Afghanistan, and among the Pashtuns of the Afghan-Pakistan border region, the term is still current in its original sense as an honorific.
History The earliest organization of the Church in Jerusalem was according to most scholars similar to that of Jewish synagogues, but it had a council or college of ordained presbyters (Greek: πρεσβύτεροι elders).
Most recently, the Gyalwang Drukpa visited the CERN in Switzerland with several of his kung fu nuns to discuss the seeming tension of religion and science in society, as well as the improvement of gender equality.
Abba Saul ben Batnit, in his attack against the priestly house of Ishmael ben Fabus, said: "They themselves are high priests, and their sons gizbarim, and their sons-in-law amarkolim".
Seven Inanimate Jewels (Eka-indriya) Chakra-ratna: A miraculous diamond-serrated discus that never misses its target; it precedes the monarch’s army during his world-conquering expedition (digvijaya).
See also Christianity in the United States#Youth programs Sunday school Youth program References External links OhMyBible – Free interactive Bible study app with interactive chapters, contextual notes, multi-voice video Bible, and guided prayer talks.
At the national level, a Fatwa Committee of the National Council for Islamic Religious Affairs (Majlis Fatwa Kebangsaan) has been formed under the Department of Islamic Advancement of Malaysia (Jabatan Kemajuan Islam Malaysia or JAKIM).
Ifá is a divination system that represents the teachings of the òrìṣà Ọrunmila, the òrìṣà of wisdom, who in turn serves as the oracular representative of Olodumare.
Derived from the root "yat," meaning "to strive" or "to make an effort," Yati traditionally refers to one who is disciplined, dedicated, and often associated with ascetics or sages (tapasvis) who have renounced worldly attachments in pursuit of higher spiritual goals.
[it is] an opportunity to serve." The church uses a lay clergy, with most members receiving no compensation for the execution of their callings.
Swedish priests supported conviction of noaidis for sorcery, and in 1693, Lars Nilsson was executed for this charge.
A rajarshi still performs the duties of their kshatriya class, and remain similar to most rishis, maharishis, and brahmarishis descendants in their level of spiritual knowledge.
Bhagat is a term used in the Indian subcontinent to describe religious figures who have obtained high acclaim in their communities for their acts and devotion.
They stated that paying chaplains to conduct prayer services was an unconstitutional act of governmental support for a religion.
Catholic young people Unlike the case in some Protestant churches, a youth minister in the Roman Catholic Church is not a member of the clergy.
External links The 84 Indian Adepts of Abhayadatta System Mahasiddha: Buddhist Tantric Teachers of India
Nine of the fourteen Malaysian states have their own sultan; each of these nine states have their own mufti who usually controls the Islamic Council or Islamic Department of the state.
One of the best orators of Bangladesh, Maulana Delwar Hossain Sayeedi, is addressed as Allama Sayeedi.
The novice master's duty is to see that the time devoted to the period of the novitiate be passed in prayer, meditation, and the development of character through a study of the life of Jesus Christ and the saints, church history, the vows and the constitution of the institute.
They also often teach in Islamic schools known in Iran as hawzas and in other countries as madrasas.
In some orders, like the Benedictines, a monastery remains a priory until it is considered stable enough and large enough to be elevated to the rank of an abbey.
Lay brothers were originally created to allow those who were skilled in particular crafts or did not have the required education to study for holy orders to participate in and contribute to the life of a religious order.
After the Reformation and the Dissolution of the Monasteries the role of erenagh became subsumed in the responsibilities of the parson in each parish.
See also Maggid Moshe ha-Darshan References Further reading Marc Saperstein (1992), Jewish Preaching, 1200-1800: An Anthology, yale university press.
History See also Pandit Purohit Yogi Bairagi References External links Media related to Pujari at Wikimedia Commons
A muhtasibat is an Islamic territorial division overseen by a muhtasib and is directly subordinate to a qadi and qadiyat.
During the Avignon Papacy, the use of a caudatario spread among the minor prelates, such as the archbishops and bishops.
When she was twenty, she and her husband Pinianus renounced the world, both founding convents and monasteries.
These ceremonial drums can include water drums, hand drums, and larger drums used during ceremonies such as Sun Dances and sweatlodges.
Psychological aspects of relationship The relation of Guru and Shishya is equated with that of a child in the womb of mother.
Some believe that remainder, or even all, of the claims of martyred apostles do not rely upon historical or biblical evidence, but only on late legends.
Titles used only by Shia Muslims Ayatollah Ayatollah (Arabic: آية الله; Persian: آیت‌الله) is a prestigious title given to major Shia clergymen.
Kamehameha I had earlier believed that Christianity may bring mana or heavenly power to revitalise the Hawaiian community.
Lay brothers were distinguished from choir monks or friars in that they did not pray in choir, and from clerics, in that they did not prepare for holy orders.
Some officiants work within congregations in some denominations and for specified ceremonies (e.g., funerals) as non-ordained members on the clergy team.
The archipheracite was not the same as the archisynagogus, as Grotius and other have mistakenly believed, but rather the chief or principal of these appointed to read, explain, and profess the law in their schools.
History Canon 128 of the 1603 canons of the Church of England lays down the qualifications necessary for the office of surrogate, and canon 123 specifies the regulations for appointment to the office.
Implications Dvija, in medieval Indian texts, refers to a member of the first three varnas – Brahmins, Kshatriyas, and Vaishyas.
According to Guthrie, dunchees are the "heirs of an ancient form of female asceticism that was once accorded high status in Cambodia".
Hidden from the eyes of men, the life of the hermit is a silent preaching of the Lord, to whom he has surrendered his life simply because he is everything to him.
Female members of the mendicant orders (Dominican, Augustinian and Carmelite nuns and Poor Clares) continued to observe the same enclosed life as members of the monastic orders.
The Rule of St Benedict is followed by a variety of orders of monastics in the West, including the Order of Saint Benedict, Cistercians, Trappists, and Camaldolese, and is an important influence in Carthusian life.
Imperial Britain saw great possibilities in having under their control and patronage the head of a major Shia sect; it could even be used at some later stage to counterbalance the influence of the Ottoman Caliph, the head of Islam as recognized by the Sunni sects.
Once they returned from the journey, the angakkuq would question people involved in the situation, and, under the belief that they already knew who was responsible, the people being questioned would often confess.
Dispute over Marja al-taqlid al-mutlaq In the early 1990s, the leading marja', Abu al-Qasim al-Khoei, died and Ali Sistani, "emerged" as the marja al-mutlaq or highest Marja' in the world of Shia Islam.
The Unitarian & Free Christian Churches of Great Britain have Accredited Lay Preachers who take services including rites of passage.
The prevalence of these works in pop culture has influenced definitions in English dictionaries, such as Merriam-Webster, which not only defines kahuna as "a preeminent person or thing" but also offers "Hawaiian shaman" as a secondary definition.
A rigid class system emerged from this arrangement in which the clerics (priests and seminarians) exercised complete control over the lay brothers.
Notable Chaplains Since the American Civil War, seven Army chaplains and one chaplain assistant have been awarded the Medal of Honor.
James Mallinson, one of the few westerners to be named as a mahant, describes the position of a mahant as a combination of an abbot and a brigadier.
In Thailand, the terms luuk sit wat (ลูกศิษย์วัด) and dek wat (เด็กวัด), commonly rendered into English as "temple boy", are typically used.
In modern Philippine society, their roles have largely been taken over by folk healers, which are now predominantly male, while some are still being falsely accused as "witches".
From 1938 to 1972, Lichtenstein led the Society of Jewish Science, a Jewish spiritual movement originally led by Rabbi Alfred G.
Among other proofs, they cited another response from Isaac ben Sheshet himself ruling that a kohen who married a divorcee must cease his marriage, proving that Isaac ben Sheshet fundamentally upheld the legitimacy of the presumptive kohen.
The text describes the monk as a Jivanmukta, a liberated soul while alive, and Videhamukta is liberation in afterlife.
ISBN 978-0300052633 Marc Saperstein (2014), Your Voice Like a Ram's Horn: Themes and Texts in Traditional Jewish Preaching, Hebrew Union College Press.
Sound imitation may serve other purposes such as games and other entertainment as well as important practical purposes such as luring animals during hunts.
This may be evidence for the existence of sacred prostitution in Mesoamerica, or it may be either confusion, or accusational polemic.
A hegumen may carry his pastoral staff in processions and when giving blessings in the church (though it is never carried into the sanctuary), although it usually stands upright next to his kathisma (monastic choir stall).
Gallery Federal Republic of Germany German religious constitutional law and its state-church law is involved in the democratic national identity of modern Germany, especially in various articles of the German Constitution.
Addressing a crowd As part of the school of Rabbi Yismael's explanation, the Mitzvah includes sanctifying the Kohen with the first slot in delivering Torah instruction from amongst other Jews who are on the/a panel of speakers.
An ishan has leadership over his group, and can nominate his khalifa and hafiz as well as initiating maulid and buwi into the sub-order.
Religious Zionist and Modern Orthodox rabbinical students, such as those at the Hesder yeshivas and Yeshiva University, respectively, also formally study hashkafa (i.e., the major elements of Jewish philosophy and theology) and its application to contemporary questions.
Hinduism Other titles for the word Mahant, serving in the context of a well known religious place, include priest or pundit—generally always being a gyani or pastor.
The scholaster might be a dignitary in a cathedral or collegiate chapter, alongside the provost, dean, cantor, succentor, precentor, archdeacon, treasurer, cellarer, sacristan or almoner.
Depending on the size of the school and the status of the institution to which it was attached, the scholaster might be the only teacher, the head of a considerable educational establishment, or have oversight over all the schools in their city or territory.
12th century – 11th century BCE), who fished without a hook while waiting to be recognized by the ruler.
In many cases, the women that take to the life of renunciation are widows, and these types of sadhvis often live secluded lives in ascetic compounds.
They play a crucial role in preserving and transmitting the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism, particularly those related to tantric practices.
Non-Orthodox Judaism allows women to be mohalot (מוֹהֲלוֹת‎, plural of מוֹהֶלֶת‎, 'mohelet', feminine of mohel), without restriction.
A number of prominent Armenian Christian authors are grouped together under the name t’argmanich’ vardapetk’ 'translator vardapets': Mesrop Mashtots, Elishe, Movses Khorenatsi, David the Invincible, Gregory of Narek, Nerses the Gracious, John of Odzun, John of Orotan, and Gregory of Tatev.
{{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) External links List of All Digamber Jain Monks With detailed description Photo documentary of the Jain monks
Bangladesh In Bangladesh, in the government Aliyah Madrasa system, Maulvi/Moulvi is also associated with formal degrees for those who have passed the course of Maulvi (basic), Maulvi Aalim (intermediate) or Maulvi Fazil (advanced).
The word ultimately derives from a Germanic word for "king" (Compare to Finnish Kuningas and Lithuanian Kunigas, both from Proto-Germanic *Kuningaz; in archaic context the Finnish word simply had the meaning of "leader" or "high-ranked person" instead of monarch).
A scholaster, from the Latin scholasticus (schoolmaster), or magister scholarum, was the head of an ecclesiastical school, typically a cathedral school, monastic school, or the school of a collegiate church, in medieval and early-modern Europe.
From the Jerusalem Talmud, it further appears that in cases of necessity the archisynagogue of a community had to act as its reader.
The concept of Chakravartin may have developed by the time of the early Maurya kings, in the 4th to 3rd century BCE, such as Emperor Ashoka, and it is mentioned in the Arthashastra (formerly considered to be a Maurya-period text but now re-dated as later).
(1991), Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-504652-6 STRONGS NT 1481: ἐθνάρχης.
The historian Sarah Ansari wrote: In his newspaper, the Pir-jo-Goth Gazette, he (Pir of Pagaro) called for Hindu-Muslim unity: 'My forefathers', he wrote, 'treated Hindus and Muslims alike as a sacred trust.
Catholic Church norms for the consecrated eremitic and anchoritic life do not include corporal works of mercy.
Ndiaye, Ousmane Sémou, "Diversité et unicité sérères: l'exemple de la région de Thiès." Éthiopiques (1991).
Typically, general authorities are given the sealing power, while general officers and area seventies are not.
The Nenets rank their shamans by their spiritual attachment and function as well as their experience.
Although this is a fairly common occurrence, there are no hard and fast rules about such practices and each president is free to choose the counselors he prefers.
'a man of prayer'; and from the Anglo-Saxon bed), was generally a pensioner or almsman whose duty was to pray for his benefactor.
The pressure began in Oyotunji after Iyanifa Ifafunmike Osunbunmi was initiated in Osogbo, Nigeria, in 1995 by the Babalawo Ifayemi Elebuibon, the Araba of Osogbo.
A coarb, from the Old Irish comarbae (Modern Irish: comharba, Latin: hērēs), meaning "heir" or "successor", was a distinctive office of the medieval Celtic Church among the Gaels of Ireland and Scotland.
Bhaṭṭārakas, who head institutions, are technically junior monks, and thus permitted to stay in the same place.
Similar to an abbot visitor, the archimandrite would visit the monasteries under his charge to see that the monks were keeping a serious religious life, to draw attention to abuses, straighten out difficulties and give confidence and encouragement to all those who needed it.
See also Royal Army Chaplains' Department (RAChD) (U.K.) Royal Canadian Chaplain Service Chiefs of Chaplains of the United States International Military Chiefs of Chaplains Conference Military chaplain#Military chaplains by country References External links Crockford's Clerical Directory – Chapl Gen
He said that the temple of Aphrodite once had acquired more than a thousand prostitutes, donated by both men and women to the service of the Goddess.
Many mohalim continue the practice of listing the names and birthdates of the boys they circumcise in little booklets.
Slaves and persons who were blind or mute were likewise theoretically barred from the post of a judge, but not that of mufti.
If the male desert monastics are called "patres", why not apply its feminine equivalent "matres" to Sara, Syncetica and their followers, she wrote.
Among the Karaites, the term denotes, like "rav" among the Rabbinites, "teacher" and "master," and is regarded as a title of honor.
Many rely on the rav in their community (in Hasidic communities, sometimes the rebbe) for legal rulings.
The minister is styled as a "teaching elder", the other members of Kirk Session are known as "ruling elders".
He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised; and My covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
One of the most revered Saltigues of her generation (as at 2011) Laba Diène Ngom, one of the best known Saltigues from Siin, during the reign of Maad a Sinig Kumba Ndoffene fa Maak Joof (1853 - 1871).
In Cantos IX and X of the Inferno, Virgil describes the suffering these souls experience, saying "Here are the Arch-Heretics, surrounded by every sect their followers...
It is used as an honorific in Sunni Islam as well as in Shia Islam, mostly in South Asia, the Middle East and Iran.
A noaidi can engage in any kind of affair that demands wisdom; it is said they take payments for their services.
Other uses It is also a term ascribed to one of the clans in the Mahar caste, with their clan totem being a King Cobra.
The commissioning of the Twelve Apostles during the ministry of Jesus is described in the Synoptic Gospels.
Categories The following categories of Nenets shamans are listed by Mihaly Hoppal, who cites research conducted by L.
There is disagreement between various global church denominations, and within membership of denominations, regarding whether women can be ministers.
The Aga Khan was the only religious or community leader in British India granted a personal gun salute.
A female teacher is called an achāryā, and a male teacher's wife is called an achāryāni In Hinduism The term 'Acharya' has numerous definitions.
In Israel, Conservative/Masorti Judaism has not extended Torah honors either to a bat Kohen or to a bat Levi.
The abbot of the collegiate church (i.e., monastery following the Rule of St Columba), who held holy orders and celebrated Mass ('serveth the cure'), was responsible for his monastic community.
Another emperor of the same name, who was the son of Rishabha, was also given the title cakravartin.
Bibliography Goonalitake, Hema, "The Role of Ancient Cambodian Women in the Promotion of Buddhism", Paper for the International Conference on Khmer Studies, UNDP, Phnom Penh, 1993.
Each ashram had a lineage of gurus, who would study and focus on certain schools of Hindu philosophy or trade, also known as the guru-shishya parampara (teacher-student tradition).
It has also mentioned that: Shu'aib ibn Salih's soldiers hold black flags, wearing black cummerbunds and white dresses.
The life of a hogon A hogon is a religious figure as well as a temporal authority; the hogon may be hereditary or may be chosen from among the village elders—custom varies from place to place.
During divine services, the hegumen wears a simple black monastic mantle, while the higher-ranking archimandrite wears a mantle similar to one worn by a bishop (though without the white "rivers" along the sides, and decorated with unadorned "tablets" at the neck and feet).
Background A kahuna may be versed in agriculture, canoe building, or any other skill or knowledge area.
Notable examples of witches in a Philippine concept are the mannamay, witches known to the Ibanag people, mangkukulam, witches that use materials from nature and the cursee as a form of curse, and the mambabarang, witches that utilize insects as a form of curse.
If he participates in the conclave, the dean asks the pope-elect if he accepts the election, and then asks the new pope what name he wishes to use.
Circuit preaching is a way to provide "trained" (as opposed to "lay") clergy for small congregations.
Akhund is increasingly outmoded in Iran, usually with only the older clerics having the title as part of their name.
Then Jesus summoned his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to cure every disease and every sickness.
The term pontiff was later applied to any high or chief priest and, in Catholic ecclesiastical usage, to bishops, especially the Pope, who is sometimes referred to as the Roman Pontiff or the Supreme Pontiff.
And by analogy, beam on which the roof of the hut rests." Tigui means "resting the roof of the hut." Combined together, gives its name to "saltigue" (a metaphor).
The Spiritual Administration of the Muslims of the Chechen Republic in the period 1991–2000 functioned as the muftiate of the unrecognized Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, since 2000 as part of the Russian Federation.
American synagogues in the mid-twentieth century were increasingly populated by second generation American Jews and Jews who viewed themselves as fully American.
This has become more difficult by the people's encounter with the modernity of Israel, where most of the Ethiopian Jewish people now live.
A yogi is a practitioner of Yoga, including a sannyasin or practitioner of meditation in Indian religions.
He was eaten by another nommo, and their spirits merged; the nommo vomited out a new Lebe (part human and part spiritual), plus copious liquid which shaped the landscape.
This explains why the title "archisynagogue" was sometimes attached to the names of the wife and the children, as found on some Greek inscriptions.
He also heads the Permanent Committee for Scholarly Research and Ifta, which oversees the preparation and issuance of official fatwas and conducts scholarly research on Islamic jurisprudence and theology.
In Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene, both occurred: the knight on a quest met a good hermit, and the sorcerer Archimago took on such a pose.
A darshan (Hebrew: דַּרְשָׁן) or baal darshan (Hebrew: בַּעַל־דַּרְשָׁן) is a Jewish scriptural interpreter.
However, some dasa sil matas have struggled and managed to establish monasteries of their own, where women have the opportunity devote themselves to spiritual training and practice.
'person who initiates into mysteries') is a person who initiates others into mystic beliefs, and an educator or person who has knowledge of the sacred mysteries of a belief system.
Question about Anagarikas from DhammaWheel forum, 2014 Anagarika is post-canonical invention from DhammaWheel forum, 2017.
Originally, a muhtasib was an Ottoman official charged with supervising proper weights and measures in markets as well as the proper conduct of certain rituals.
In Indian religions and society, an acharya (Sanskrit: आचार्य, IAST: ācārya; Pali: ācariya) is a religious teacher in Hinduism and Buddhism and a spiritual guide to Hindus and Buddhists.
After the creation of the SGPC and the Nankana massacre involving Mahant Narayan Das, a law was passed handing over gurdwaras to reformer Sikhs.
The mystagogue would reappear in his beastly form and feed on those who strayed from the tribe if it was not in keeping with their religious customs.
The Grand Imam of al-Azhar is considered, by most Muslims, to be the highest authority in Sunni Islamic thought and Islamic jurisprudence and holds great influence on followers of the theological Ash'ari and Maturidi traditions worldwide.
Monastic superiors In the Rule of Saint Benedict, the term appears several times, referring to any superior, whether an abbot, provost, dean, etc.
Funerary practices are also attested archaeologically in Saka tombs from Siberia, which contained tripods, braziers, pelts, and charcoal containing remains of cannabis leaves and fruits.
In 897, a Zaidi ruler, al-Hadi ila'l-Haqq Yahya, founded a line of such imams, a theocratic form of government which survived until the second half of the 20th century (See details under Zaidiyyah, History of Yemen, Imams of Yemen).
These scholars were entrusted with interpreting Islamic jurisprudence and offering guidance on religious matters.
Since 1972 the minor orders and the subdiaconate have been replaced by lay ministries and clerical tonsure no longer takes place, except in some Traditionalist Catholic groups, and the clerical state is acquired, even in those groups, by Holy Orders.
The abolishment attracted a significant shift for Syria, which, for the first time since its independence, lacks a designated role solely responsible for issuing fatwas.
The law concerning the king, and the prohibitions against "multiplying horses", "multiplying wives", and "multiplying silver and gold", at Deuteronomy 17:14–20, appears to be coloured by reminiscences of Solomon (c.
The epic Mahābhārata was narrated to Shaunaka by a storyteller named Ugrasrava Sauti during a conclave of sages headed by Shaunaka in a forest named Naimisha.
In Vajrayana Buddhism, monkhood is part of the system of 'vows of individual liberation'; these vows are taken in order to develop one's own personal ethical discipline.
Freund argued that a stele found at Cancho Roano displayed an image with concentric circles that matches Plato's description of Atlantis.
On food and living habits And with respect to those that are philosophers, among these some dwell on mountains, and others about the river Ganges.
The temple at Eriza appears to have been particularly famous, "the wealthiest and most venerable in Armenia", staffed with priests and priestesses, the latter from eminent families who would serve at the temple before marrying.
The swan is equally at home on land and on water; similarly, the true sage is equally at home in the realms of matter and of spirit.
See also List of grand imams of al-Azhar References Sources Dodge, Bayard (1961), Al-Azhar: A Millennium of Muslim learning, Middle East Institute Beattie, Kirk J.
Maryknoll In Montreal in 1910, Father James Anthony Walsh, a priest from Boston, met Father Thomas Frederick Price, from North Carolina.
rosh yeshivas) is the title given to the dean of a yeshiva, a Jewish educational institution that focuses on the study of traditional religious texts, primarily the Talmud and the Torah, and halakha (Jewish law).
The SSM has since undergone a significant evolution, first offering a bachelor's degree in four years, beginning in the fall of 1953), and ultimately conferring a Master of Sacred Music over the course of five years and culminating with investiture as cantor.
Thus perished a hereditary secret society, since which time no hereditary privileges have been tolerated among the Cherokee" (Mooney, p.
Hurd is a member of the Top Level Group of UK Parliamentarians for Multilateral Nuclear Disarmament and Non-proliferation, established in October 2009.
Levitical status is passed down in families from father to child born from a Jewish mother, as part of a family's genealogical tradition.
Akhunds will usually have completed higher studies on Islamic subjects such as Sharia, Fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence), Quran etc.
121 Centre d'étude des civilisations, "Cahiers du mythe." Issues 4-5, Nouvelles éditions africaines.
In particular, the lay brothers of the Cistercians were skilled in agriculture, and have been credited for the tilling of fertile farmland.
Bashar al-Assad's government leveraged the grand mufti's office to gain perceived Sunni religious support amid Syrian civil war and humanitarian crisis.
Muni (Sanskrit: मुनि, "silent") is a term for types of ancient Indian sages and hermits or ancient Indian ascetics.
See also Bede Bede (disambiguation) Bede House, Old Aberdeen Hospitals in medieval Scotland Lyddington Bede House == References ==
Archaeologist Stuart Piggott, the author of The Druids (1968), accepted the Greco-Roman accounts, and considered the druids to be a barbaric and savage priesthood who performed human sacrifices.
The Church of Jesus Christ (Bickertonite) Within The Church of Jesus Christ, the president of the church and his two counselors are elected by the general priesthood in conference and selected from amongst the Quorum of Twelve Apostles.
Mahant () is a religious superior, in particular the chief of a temple or the head of a monastery in Indian religions.
He may have been a militant/armed ascetic who resided in the Varanasi region in the 17th–18th centuries.
Although the Lutheran concept of the calling emphasized vocation, there was no particular emphasis on labor beyond what was required for one's daily bread.
Wu in Zhou received texts Chinese wu 巫 "shaman" occurs over 300 times in the Chinese classics, which generally date from the late Zhou and early Han periods (6th-1st centuries BCE).
The rabbi is not an occupation found in the Torah; the first time this word is mentioned is in the Mishnah.
It is either conferrable patrilineally with a Jewish mother, in the traditional manner, or it does not exist and is not conferred at all.
According to an old Babylonian text, the god Enki created the gala specifically to sing "heart-soothing laments" for the goddess Inanna.
In 1969, King Faisal abolished the office of Grand Mufti and replaced it with Ministry of Justice and Council of Senior Scholars.
2 Maccabees (2 Maccabees 6:4–5) describes sacred prostitution in the Second Temple under the reign of the Hellenistic ruler Antiochus IV Epiphanes.
Jisha (侍者), along with the titles inji and sannō, are Japanese terms used in reference to the personal attendant of a monastery's abbot or teacher in Zen Buddhism.
Only those having sufficient knowledge of Taoist literature and who passed the test were licensed by the government as official priests.
Imperial Preceptors in the Yuan dynasty Drogon Chogyal Phagpa (1235–1280) Drogon Chogyal Phagpa was born in 1235 as the son of Sönam Gyeltsen, in Ngari (West Tibet).
They are ordained for life by the minister and Kirk Session of a parish, and carry out pastoral and local church government duties under the guidance of the minister.
Calvinists distinguished two callings: a general calling to serve God and a particular calling to engage in some employment by which one's usefulness is determined.
The Chancellor is generally one of four chief dignitaries in the cathedral chapter, the others being the Dean, the Precentor and the Treasurer.
Saint John Chrysostom died in Comana in 407 AD in the Presbyterium or community of the clergy belonging to the church of Saint Basiliscus.
Lengths of papal reign Longest-reigning popes The longest papal reigns of those whose reign lengths can be determined from contemporary historical data are the following: Saint Peter (c.
Lise McKean states the guru concept has been prevalent over the range of class and caste backgrounds, and the disciples a guru attracts come from both genders and a range of classes and castes.
The title was adopted by Romuva, the neo-pagan movement in Lithuania, when Jonas Trinkūnas was officially installed as krivių krivaitis in October 2002.
Legacy By the 2nd century AD, association with the apostles was esteemed as an evidence of authority.
Both are elected by and from the cardinal bishops who are not Eastern Catholic patriarchs, with their election subject to papal confirmation.
While the Association's primary agenda is to rebuild the public function of Shinto rituals, individual priests are free to operate as they wish.
In the post-Yugoslavia states, spiritual administrations similar to the muftiate are called riyasat.
However, they are treated more favourably than maechi, being able to receive training, practice meditation and sit for the same qualification examinations as the monks.
Consequently, there are among the Karaites many learned men who are called by the title "ha-melammed ha-gadol" (the great master), or merely "ha-melammed" (the master; comp.
Rural deans (and those known by alternative titles) rank as primi inter pares of their chapters, and do not have the seniority of cathedral or diocesan deans.
The Dvija restrictions may be theoretical, because most students learnt their economically useful skills through apprenticeship within their family or at guilds.
Clergy or officiants differ from chaplains in that the clergy serve the members of their congregation, while chaplains are usually employed by an institution such as the military, a hospital or other health care facility, etc.
They ranked higher than the imperial abbots and imperial abbesses who although they were also immediate, held only two collective votes in the Diet.
Examples of Jewish women who authored Jewish texts from this period include Rebecca bat Meir Tiktiner and Devorà Ascarelli.
As Paul Wittek points out, Dazimon and Tokat are both mentioned in the 13th century by Ibn Bibi and Komana is recorded separately in 1347 as Komada (Κόμαδα).
The words "bishop" and "presbyter" were sometimes used in an interchangeable way, such as in Titus 1:5-6.
Until modern times, all pratishthas were supervised by them or pandits (such as Raighu)designated by them.
In Anishinaabe ceremonial communities, the water drum may be passed down from one generation to the next.
In a similar vein, he denounced the Hindu Sabha and the Muslim League as divisive communal movements.
The arts provided an important means for individuals to pursue this kind of reclusion; for example, viewers of landscape paintings could take a break from their urban lives by imagining themselves as recluses wandering through nature.
Chancellor is an ecclesiastical title used by several quite distinct officials of some Christian churches.
Hence, frequently, when they are seen to be well, and are neither oppressed, nor driven to desperation by any evil, they depart from life.
375), but the Lausiac History of Palladius may evidence its common use in the 4th century as applied to Saint Pachomius.
For example, in World of Warcraft, newcomers have to play with other guild members for at least about a month to join.
History and Use Silatigi was one of several titles used for provincial governors of the Mali Empire.
In modern Slavic priesthood In contemporary Slavic Native Faith, the volkhvs are those responsible for holding rites for worshipping the gods and leading communities and religious festivals.
Alternatively, a young man or woman who exhibited a predilection or power that made them stand out might be trained by an experienced mentor.
Instead, the Scholarly Council of Jurisprudence, which along with other state-alleged agencies, now oversees these duties, includes a diverse membership from various religious communities, including Sunni, Shi'a, Druze, Alawite, Ismaili, and Christian representatives.
On March 27, 2007, Robinson retired from his position in the First Presidency and Becky Savage was ordained into the First Presidency.
In October 2014, insurgents agreed on a safe route for the evacuation of women from a destroyed prison in the Luhansk region.
Montazeri resigned on 29 April 1989 from his position, On 4 June 1989, the Assembly of Experts and it's chairman Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani overwhelmingly approved his resignation and dismissal.
When members of the Second Quorum are released, they are no longer general authorities of the church.
Ottoman Empire In the Ottoman Empire, the Grand Mufti was a state official, and the Grand Mufti of Constantinople was the highest of these.
The Deputy Executive Minister assumes the duties of Executive Minister during the latter's absence and succeeds him when he (Executive Minister) dies or retires.
21 Gravrand, Henri, "La Civilisation Seereer: Pangool." Les Nouvelles Edition Africaines du Senegal (1990).
This led Christian authors to generally consider that wild animals lived in peace with the grazers because they would have lived Adam's life on earth.
Adolf Büchler has shown by referring to Josephus, Against Apion 2:8, that certain Temple officers handed the keys of the Temple to their successors each day, as a symbol of their charge — and these were none others than the amarkolim; who were, however, laymen and not priests.
Ramana Maharshi (1879–1950) was an "Indian sage" with a philosophy about the path to self-knowledge and the integration of personality espoused in books by author Paul Brunton and Ramana's own writings such as the Collected Works (1969) and Forty Verses on Reality (1978).
Notable Anagārikas Anagārika Dharmapāla Anagārika Govinda Anagārika Munindra External links "Monastic: Training," Archived 2021-08-09 at the Wayback Machine from "BuddhaMind Info".
Mawlawi (Arabic: مولوي, romanized: Mawlawī) is an Islamic religious title given to Muslim religious scholars, or ulama, preceding their names, similar to the titles Mawlānā, Mullah, or Sheikh.
Khorasan can relate to three places: A part of the current country of Iran which starts from the Zagros Mountains, towards Herat in present-day Afghanistan The areas around Khorasan, which its rulers had ruled.
4th century Apollinaris of Laodicea, founder of Apollinarianism, condemned at the 1st Council of Constantinople.
Religious institutions and Islamic parochial schools fall directly under the supervision of muhtasibats.
Ignatius of Antioch wrote shortly after Clement; in his letter from the city of Smyrna to the Romans, he said he would not command them as Peter and Paul did.
The head usher receives instructions directly from the pastor and is responsible for training and scheduling ushers.
The role of the Plains Indian Contraries is primarily ceremonial since they often play key roles in sacred ceremonies, dances and feasts.
Though now often used in non-religious contexts, the meanings of the term originated in Christianity.
The prayer's origin is also traced back to the Desert Fathers—the Prayer of the Heart was found inscribed in the ruins of a cell from that period in the Egyptian desert.
For example, in the context of the Dashanami Sampradaya sect, the word denotes both martial arts and religious monastic aspects of the trident wielding martial regiment of renunciate sadhus.
According to Strabo, Anahit's worship included rituals of sacred prostitution, but later Christian writers do not mention such a custom.
In the witchcrafting period, the figure could not be burned on the stake because the fire would be smothered in the same way water cannot be ignited.
A mantrik is known for his use of sorcery and magic and can be called upon for the casting of spells and magic, divination, astrology and all aspects of sorcery.
The militant Catholic hymn Athleta Christi nobilis ("Noble Champion of the Lord"), a hymn for Matins on 18 May, the feast of Saint Venantius, written in the 17th century by an unknown author, popularized the term.
In Western Christian churches, a novice master or master of novices (Latin: magister noviciorum), is a member of an institute of consecrated life who is responsible for the training and government of the novitiate in that institute.
The coarb, however, often had charge of a church which had held comparatively high rank in pre‐Norman Ireland, or one still possessed of relatively extensive termon lands.
Priest is the oldest, a borrowing into Old English via Latin, elder (first attested 1526) is a translation of the underlying meaning of the Greek word, and presbyter (1597) is a learned correction of the loan-word.
After compulsory celibacy was abolished during the Reformation in northern Europe, the formation of a partly hereditary priestly class became possible, whereby wealth and clerical positions were frequently inheritable.
In Twelver Shi'ism there are 14 infallibles, 12 of which are imams, the final being Imam Mahdi who will return at the end of times.
Kriwe as a more or less authentic pagan priest is accepted by Norbertas Vėlius and Gintaras Beresnevičius.
The bhāṇaka system is believed to have originated in India, but the majority of the literary and inscriptional evidence relating to bhāṇakas comes from Sri Lanka.
More moderate views were propounded, for example, by Manfred Hellmann, who recognized the coexistence of princely and priestly power.
More generally, for the grazers, it was about returning to the Adamic state, meaning the condition of Adam and Eve before the Fall of mankind, where humanity would have been vegetarian, naked, and living among the animals.
Historically mainstream historiography has considered it a probable reality, based on the abundance of ancient sources and chroniclers detailing its practices, although it has proved harder to differentiate between true prostitution and sacred sex without remuneration.
Opposition toward the ordination of women rabbis in the Conservative movement resulted in a group of members, organised as Union for Traditional Judaism, to split from Conservative Judaism and occupy a stance that was somewhat aligned with modern Orthodox Judaism.
The word is derived from the Greek words ἔθνος (ethnos, "tribe/nation") and ἄρχων (archon, "leader/ruler").
Here, with his wife, he designed one of Britain's largest post-war formal gardens, the Laskett Gardens.
Agrat then mated with him a night and bore him a demonic son, Asmodeus, who is identified with Hadad the Edomite.
However, their labor may have even been more specialized and nuanced than this general understanding of their role.
The purpose was to ensure the reading of prayers with a graceful tone or accent, so to make an impression on the hearers.
The yoga as practiced by these Yogis, states White, is more closely identified in the eyes of those critics with black magic, sorcery and sexual perversions than with yoga in the conventional sense of the word.
Iyalawo is a term in the Yoruba religion and other derived religions (especially Lucumi) that literally means "mother of mysteries" or "mother of wisdom" (iyá: “mother”; awó “mysteries").
prepared to employ a cantor if qualified individuals could be found," under the leadership of Eric Werner.
Eventually, the common usage of the term Asan gradually lost its original meaning as a venerated symbolic representation for teachers, as it is found used in every parlance without any significance to its meaning.
In the early 20th century when the Oxford Movement was at its height, the Anglican Communion had hundreds of orders and communities and thousands of religious followers.
The style of the Deuteronomic discourses is very marked, being particularly distinct when compared with the style of the rest of the Torah.
Lutheranism The Church of Sweden has a threefold ministry of bishop, priest, and deacon and those ordained to the presbyterate are referred to as priests.
These missionaries represent a major shift in church history where the nations they came from were not historically Christian.
See also Zhrets Gothi, the Germanic priests Slavic Native Faith Volkhovnik References Citations Sources Aitamurto, Kaarina (2008).
While the three – or, according to the Baraita, thirteen – cashiers handled all the money that flowed into the Temple treasury, "the amarkolim, seven in number, held the seven keys to the seven gates of the Temple hall (azara), none opening his gate before all the others had assembled".
Rituals Some modern scholars believe the Enarei served largely similar purposes in the cult of Artimpasa as priests of other genders.
950 BCE), and the forms of idolatry referred to, especially worship of the "host of heaven", as described at Deuteronomy 17:3, appear to refer to behaviour during the reign of Ahaz (c.
In the Greek Orthodox Church, the Protopsaltis is the cantor of the right choir, and the Lampadarios is the cantor of the left choir.
The building appears to have been ritually burned and sealed in rammed earth in a manner similar to Etruscan.
History The see of Byzantium, whose foundation was later ascribed to Andrew the Apostle, was originally a common bishopric.
In its modern form, with the Bhattaraka as an orange-robed advanced layman, its founding is often attributed to Prabhachandra of Mula Sangh, Balatkara Gana Saraswati gachchha, who travelled from Pattana (Gujarat) to Delhi, where he was anointed in a ceremony as the first Bhattaraka of Delhi.
An increasing number of ministers are opting to take a further qualification, such as the Diploma in Pastoral Theology (Dip.P.Th.), Master of Theology (M.Th.) or Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) degree courses.
The Executive Minister along with Deputy Executive Minister and 11 other Senior Ministers (The Sanggunian or The Advisory Council of the Church) forms the Church's Central Administration.
The most prominent among them are Hossein Vahid Khorasani, Mousa Shubairi Zanjani, Sayyid Sadeq Rohani, Naser Makarem Shirazi, Sadiq Hussaini Shirazi, Hossein Noori Hamedani and Abdollah Javadi-Amoli in Qom; Ali Sistani, Muhammad al-Fayadh, Muhammad Saeed al-Hakim and Bashir al-Najafi in Najaf.
George Kastrioti Skanderbeg of Albania, called by Popes Callixtus III, Pius II, Paul II, and Nicholas V.
The lives of twelve female desert saints are described in Book I of Vitae Patrum (Lives of the Fathers).
and written as पंडीत/पंडित in Marathi/Hindi) is an honorific title for an expert person in Indian classical singing and instrumental playing, used for an Indian musician.
They were concerned with "the stars and their movements, the size of the cosmos and the earth, the world of nature, and the power and might of the immortal gods", indicating they were involved with not only such common aspects of religion as theology and cosmology, but also astronomy.
The status of dasa sil matas is in between an ordinary upāsikā (laywoman) and a fully ordained bhikkhuni.
See also Royal Air Force Chaplains Branch Royal Army Chaplains' Department References Further reading External links Chaplaincy Service - Royal Navy - Royal Navy official website
Muftis and their fatāwa have played an important role throughout Islamic history, taking on new roles in the modern era.
The word Mahamandaleshwar means "superior of great and/or numerous monasteries" or "superior of a religious district or province"; the title implies a great spiritual leader.
However, as most fathers are not comfortable or do not have the training, they designate a mohel or mohelet.
Soreh Badshah (شهيد سورهيه بادشاهه) (the Victorious King or the great king) was the title given him by his Followers.
Because Sikhism believes in one human creed (no one belongs to a higher or a lower social status or caste) and that accounts to adding Bani of various authors, a total of 36, in Guru Granth Sahib irrespective of many belonging to religions other than Sikhism.
1958–63) restored the meters of the Cardinals' cloak to 12 meters and the bishop's cloak to 7 meters after the reform of Pius XII.
At one point, to escape his duties as the figurehead of the monastery complex, he ran away on foot to study with Jamgon Kongtrul.
Within the Order of the Holy Sepulcher, the title of grand prior is held by the Latin patriarch of Jerusalem.
See also Miles Christianus References External links New Catholic Dictionary: Athleta Christi nobilis La Trobe University Library: Medieval Music Database: cf incipits O athleta Christi La Trobe University Library: Medieval Music Database: cf incipits Athleta Christi
This is the original seat of the order which once had branches all north India from Idar in Gujarat to Shikharji in Jharkhand Narasimharajapura Karkala Kanakagiri Jain Matha Amminabhavi Kambadahalli Sonda Jain Math Maharashtra Nandani, seat of the Sena Gana, Pushakara Order.
Some of joiks are sung on shamanistic rites; this memory is conserved also in a folklore text (a shaman story).
At this gathering (known as the First Buddhist Council), Upali was questioned regarding the contents of the Vinaya and Ananda was similarly questioned regarding the Dhamma.
External links Russian Orthodox Abbot of Valaam Monastery The Pilgrimage of the Russian Abbot Daniel in the Holy Land
The Scythians believed the Enarei were repeatedly born into certain families, and this was often ascribed to a goddess's hereditary curse upon warriors who had sacked her temple.
Sadhu References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed.
Among these individuals the Yamani is the closest to guidance, for he calls the people to join Imam al-Mahdi.
Therefore, as presbyters may know that by the custom of the church they are subject to the one who has been placed over them; so also bishops may understand that they are greater than presbyters more by custom than by the veritable ordinance of the Lord.
The melamed was appointed by the community, and there were special regulations determining how many children he might teach, as well as rules governing the choice of applicants for the office and the dismissal of a melamed.
A source of 1827 states that the novice master "should be a completely reliable, purely moral and true religious, who is able to familiarize the novices theoretically and practically with the purpose of the order and with the spirit of the statutes".
In Shiism, the turban is usually white, but those who claim descent from Muhammad traditionally wear a black turban.
After the regime was overthrown, women who had lost their husbands and sons began the revival of Buddhism by cleaning the temples.
The Amman Message recognized eight legitimate schools of Islamic law and prohibited declarations of apostasy against them.
With the re-establishment of orders of wandering (samvegi) monks since late 19th and early 20th century, the number of yatis have declined significantly.
In Tibetan society, ngakpas hold a respected and important role as spiritual practitioners and often serve as intermediaries between the monastic community and the lay population.
Professional cantors are usually seen only in particularly large congregations or on special occasions, such as the High Holy Days.
'king-sage') is a title in Hinduism and Hindu mythology, referring to a rishi (sage) who hails from a royal background.
The International Conference "Area Juridica of Prison Ministry" took place in Kyiv on 6 June, 2009, at the initiative of the ICCPPC-Europe.
They are free from the transmigratory cycle of birth and death (saṃsāra) and are above Arihantas (omniscient beings).
Roles The kappiya's primary role is to assist ordained Buddhist monks with various tasks, especially those which are forbidden by the Vinaya, the set of Buddhist monastic rules (e.g., handling of money).
The ancient name (2nd century AD-1893AD) of a large area in Central Asia compromising modern-states of Afghanistan, Tajikistan, half of Uzbekistan, parts of Turkmenistan and the eastern part of the modern Iranian state.
Judas Iscariot: buried at Akeldama near Jerusalem (per the Gospel of Matthew and Acts of the Apostles).
Shripujya The heads of the institutions of Śvetāmbara yatis were often termed shripujya, similar to Digambara institutions headed by the Bhattarakas.
Other religions The word has been employed in English also for caliphs (Islam) and swamis and jagadgurus (Hinduism).
It occurs 173 times in 144 Old Testament verses and relates to the literal feeding of sheep, as in Genesis 29:7.
They are not fully ordained nuns (bhikkhuni), as the full ordination is not legal for women in Burma, but are closer to sāmaṇerīs, 'novice nuns'.
The tantras state that the guru is equivalent to Buddha, states Berkwitz, and is a figure to worship and whose instructions should never be violated.
The text describes the need, role and characteristics of a teacher, as follows, When the teacher finds from signs that knowledge has not been grasped or has been wrongly grasped by the student, he should remove the causes of non-comprehension in the student.
The style was most common west of the Appalachian Mountains, where American settlement pushed westward throughout the 19th century.
Teenagers whose parents or grandparents did not have other offspring to depend on were not allowed to become monks or priests.
Hence, the Babylonian Talmud – when mentioning the archisynagogue – finds it necessary to translate the word by parnas.
Thilashins are addressed with the honorifics sayalay (Burmese: ဆရာလေး, MLCTS: sa.rale:, [sʰəjàlé], 'little teacher') and daw (Burmese: ဒေါ်, MLCTS: dau:, [dɔ̀]).
They are sometimes, but not exclusively, more junior clergy, often chosen for their singing ability, who have already served a curacy, normally in a church.
Each sampradaya has several "orders" called parampara based on the lineage of the founder of the order.
Parable of the Ten Virgins Quest for Fire - fictionalized film of fire keeping Vestal Virgin - Roman flametenders Wachet auf, ruft uns die Stimme, BWV 140 == References ==
Every youth ministry is structured differently and the culture will vary among youth ministries depending on how the ministry cultivates culture.
While the profession has historically been very male dominated, an increasing number of women are becoming mashgichot.
The United Methodist Church authorized the role of "certified lay minister" (CLM) at its 2004 General Conference as a non-clergy leadership role, stating that CLMs should not use the title of "pastor"; be addressed as "reverend"; or wear clerical garb (i.e., the robe, stole or collar).
Sheluhe de-rabanan, wide variety of pictures, books and other digital items related to Sheluhe de-rabanan from the National Library of Israel collections.
In addition to these three orders of clerics, some Eastern Catholic, or "Uniate", Churches have what are called "minor clerics".
The major halakha pertaining to sofrut, the practice of scribal arts, is in the Talmud in the tractate "Maseket Sofrim".
For example, the Unitarian Universalist Association reserves the title of "the reverend" for ordained ministers.
Catholicism Hinduism Islam Judaism Neopaganism Raëlism Scientology Serer Zoroastrianism See also List of religious topics List of education topics == References ==
In 1983, the faculty of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, voted, without accompanying opinion, to ordain women as rabbis and as cantors.
The dean of the College of Cardinals (Latin: Decanus Collegii Sanctae Romanae Ecclesiae Cardinalium) presides over the College of Cardinals in the Catholic Church, serving as primus inter pares ('first among equals').
Responsum of Isaac ben Sheshet The source of questioning the legitimacy of kohanim is a single responsum of Isaac ben Sheshet, ("Rivash", 1328–1408).
This line however, once again declared autonomy, and the unity deteriorated in 1975, when the Malankara Orthodox Church split again from the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church (an integral branch of the Syriac Orthodox Church).
Their journey is often marked by a quiet determination to harmonize the bhautik (material) with the adhyatmik (spiritual).
In 1914, there were about 730 priests and 150 deacons in the ranks of the Russian Imperial Army, and at the height of the war the number of chaplains in it was about 5,000 people.
In the Middle Ages, they played a major role in the affairs of the Eastern Orthodox Church, as well as in the politics of the Orthodox world, and in spreading Christianity among the Slavs.
Because of the quality of Sūksmatva, the liberated soul is beyond sense-perception and its knowledge of the substances is direct, without the use of the senses and the mind.
Some are sent to become temple boys to acquire merit; others, because they are given free room and board; and others to receive religious and moral instruction.
Famous bhaṭṭāraka seats include: Karnataka Shravanabelagola, seat of the Desiya Gana, Pustaka Order.
A firekeeper or flamekeeper tends the sacred fire (or fires) in the manner specific to the religious traditions of that culture.
The role of a church usher is typically a volunteer position, and in the past was often considered one of honor, particularly if a church committee selects an usher by a nomination.
For example, Chatam Sofer wrote that such a conditional transaction would invalidate the redemption, and the child would not be halachically redeemed so long as any pressure is exerted on the kohen to agree to this type of conditional transaction.
Partial list of Desert Fathers A partial list of Desert Fathers: In arts Painting (with Sassetta, Paolo Uccello in The Tebaid, Hieronymus Bosch in the Triptych of the Temptation of St.
The president of the church, while being an ordained apostle, functions as the chief operating officer, overseeing the general operations of the church.
(2000), Egypt during the Sadat years, Palgrave Macmillan, ISBN 978-0-312-23246-7 Bennett, Clinton (2005), Muslims and modernity: an introduction to the issues and debates, Continuum International Publishing Group, ISBN 978-0-8264-5481-2
Non-religious usages The phrase is also often used to describe someone who is deemed to be an innovator or leader in a field of achievement.
In Russia and in other parts of the former Soviet Union, a muhtasibat is directly subordinate to a qadiyat.
Except for presiding over the college, the dean and vice-dean have no power over the other cardinals.
The Pallava period extolled ranked relationships based on ritual purity as enjoined by the shastras.
Various other titles like Munīndra (Sanskrit; Pali: Muninda; meaning "lord of Munis"), Munivar (Greatest among Munis), Munirāja (King of Munis), Munīśvara (Sanskrit; Pali: Munissaro; meaning "lord of Munis"), Mahāmuni (The great[est] Muni) are also given to the Buddhas.
In Anglo-Jewry, for example, gabbaim in some synagogue movements have traditionally worn top hats, and where there is a shamash, he may wear canonicals.
A soul, after attaining siddhahood, goes to the top of the loka (as per Jain cosmology) and stays there for eternity.
The elders will be assisted by deacons who, depending on the congregation, may have a specific area of non-spiritual service (e.g., finance, building and grounds, benevolence); the deacons are in all matters subservient to the elders.
It defined the professional role, training, and value of chaplains in healthcare, emphasizing their contributions to holistic care and establishing shared standards across faith traditions and institutional settings.
Persian-speakers in Central Asia still consider themselves as Khorasanis, particularely Tajiks and Hazaras.
KR Norman suggests that the Theravada practice of organizing bhāṇakas by Nikaya may not have originated until after the Second Buddhist Council.
However Shrutasagara, in his commentary on Shatprabhrita, mentioned Prabhachandra's predecessor Vasantakirti as having adopted body coverage first.
As they are informal titles, mentioning names of eminent singers without those appendages is acceptable, unlike prefixes like Dr.
Rajarshi Maharishi Brahmarshi Devarishi Literature In the Ramayana, Brahma proclaims Vishvamitra to be a rajarshi in response to the sage performing austerities for a thousand years.
Kadetotad, N.K., Religion and Society among the Harijans of Yellammana Jogatiyaru Hagu Devadasi Paddati (Jogati of Yellamma and Devadasi Custom), Dharwad, Karnatak University Press (Kannada), 1983.
The Miaphysites were under the authority of the Syriac Orthodox Metropolitan of the East until 624 when the seat was left empty for five years.
Canon law references External links Elevation of a Protodeacon photos and description of Melkite Rite Clerical Attire, Vesture, Titles, and Precedence for Deacons, Hierodeacons, Protodeacons and Archdeacons According to the Byzantine Tradition
References Further reading Yad LaTorah: Laws and Customs of the Torah Service - A Guide for Gabba'im and Torah Readers by Kenneth Goldrich, published by the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism and the Rabbinical Assembly.
History In Lakota culture, the yuwipi (pronounced yoo-WEE-pee) ceremony is held for both physical and spiritual healing.
The Arab merchants and traders became the carriers of the new religion, and they propagated it wherever they went.
Thus the "silatigi" is the one who leads the community in following the right path, physical or spiritual.
leads) at a religious or secular service or ceremony, such as weddings (marriage officiant), funerals (burial, entombment or cremation) or memorial services, namegiving or baptism.
A lay leader is a member of the laity in any congregation who has been chosen as a leader either by their peers or the leadership of the congregation.
Between the 6th and 13th centuries, Devadasis had a high rank and dignity in society and were exceptionally affluent as they were seen as the protectors of the arts.
Although ranked lower than the monks, they are not subservient to them, but form their own communities.
Taoist priests not trained in neigong were relegated to Grade Six status or lower, and bore the title of "Three-Five Surveyor of Merit” (三五度公; sanwu dugong.
With the spread of codified state laws and Western-style legal education in the modern Muslim world, muftis generally no longer play their traditional role of clarifying and elaborating the laws applied in courts.
Historians believe that a united Jain community existed before 367 BCE, about 160 years after the moksha (liberation) of Mahavira.
In Ghana, Togo, Benin and other countries of West Africa, a fetish priest is a person who serves as a mediator between the spirits and the living.
Yamani's personality According to Shia sources, it is not clear whether al-Yamani is one of descendants of Hasan ibn Ali or Husayn ibn Ali.
In many Hasidic groups, the rosh yeshiva of a school will be the son or son-in-law of the rebbe, the assumed heir of the rebbe.
Many secular celebrants conduct the whole range of ceremonies which mark the milestones of human life.
The word Mawlawi is derived from the Arabic word mawla, which has several meanings, including "lord".
'royal teacher', and alternatively spelled hsayadaw, sayado, sayāḍo or sayāḍaw) is a Burmese Buddhist title used to reference the senior monk or abbot of a monastery.
In that case, the traditional Mufti may well be replaced by a university or madrasa professor who informally functions as adviser to the local Muslim community in religious matters such as inheritance, divorce, etc.
The Chaturvarga-Chintāmani of Hemādri puts 'riṣi' at the seventh place in the eightfold division of Brāhmanas.
Townland The townland of Erenagh, historically referred to as "Erynach," is noted in medieval records linked to Furness Abbey in Lancashire, England.
Generally, a mantrik is supposed to derive his powers from the use of charms, mantras, spells and other methods.
In history, some women were able to obtain that title, notably when cross-dressing as male monks, such as Susanna the Deaconess.
Indian honorifics are honorific titles or appendices to names used in the Indian subcontinent, covering formal and informal social, commercial, and religious relationships.
Temple prostitution The Temple of Aphrodite at Acrocorinth is above all famous for the unverified claims of the temple prostitution of courtesans, which were alleged to be dedicated to the service of the temple, and contributed to the attraction of visitors to the city of Corinth.
This would create a ritual bond between Cuzco and the local region; Cuzco had taken a member of the local community and made them a representative of the central state.
History The office of the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia was established in 1953 by King Abdulaziz, with Muhammad ibn Ibrahim appointed as the first Grand Mufti.
The duties of both hegumen and archimandrite are the same, archimandrite being considered the senior dignity of the two.
A Grand Mufti (also called Chief Mufti, State Mufti and Supreme Mufti) is a title for the leading Islamic jurist of a country or grand muftiate, typically Sunni, who may oversee other muftis.
Due to animistic belief of ancient Javanese people, the title "Kyai" is also used to call almost all persons and things venerated.
By the end of the 16th century, the government-appointed mufti of Istanbul came to be recognized under the title Shaykh al-Islam (Turkish: şeyhülislam) as the Grand Mufti in charge of this hierarchy.
According to Strabo (12.3.32), the Comana Pontica temple was a replica of the temple in Cappadocia and the methods of celebration were the same.
Similarly, the government of Tamil Nadu wrote that this system has been eradicated and there are now no Devadasis in the state.
It contained a detailed description of the holy city's virtues and current crisis, serving both as a heartfelt appeal and formal credentials.
A gabbai (Hebrew: גבאי), sometimes spelled gabay, also known as shamash (שמש, sometimes transcribed shamas) or warden (UK, similar to churchwarden), is a beadle or sexton, a person who assists in the running of synagogue services in some way.
In many monasteries, especially larger ones, the claustral prior is assisted by a sub-prior, who holds the third place in the monastery.
This was encouraged by a spiritual reliance among the general membership of the Catholic Church upon the prayers of monastics to achieve salvation.
The word tenzo is Japanese for "seat of ceremony", similar to the English term "master of ceremonies." From ancient times Buddhist monasteries have had six office-holders who, as disciples of the Buddha, guide the monastic community.
Establishment of the tradition Adi Shankara, the first Shankaracharya, set up four monasteries, known as Mathas or Peethams, in the North, South, East and West of India, to be headed by Self-realised men who would be known as Shankaracharyas.
Role Not necessarily leader of any Islamic sect, holder of the office represents the Ghanaian Muslim community in national affairs, build bridges between the country's many faiths and "support development programmes that sensitize people to their social responsibilities".
If the dean himself is elected pope, the aforementioned tasks are assumed by the sub-dean of the College of Cardinals.
In some cultures, the people will not even discuss these matters with American Indians from other tribes.
Distinctiveness "What distinguishes pastoral counseling from other forms of counseling and psychotherapy is the role and accountability of the counselor and his or her understanding and expression of the pastoral relationship.
During the feudal Kamakura period (1185–1333) when Japan was controlled by warring shōgun states: [T]he miko was forced into a state of mendicancy as the shrines and temples that provided her with a livelihood fell into bankruptcy.
Education The key requirement to become a Libationer for the Way of the Celestial Master was the receipt of the register of 150 generals.
Yoshida Shinto was established in the 15th century by Yoshida Kanetomo who gained the power to distribute shrine licenses as a representative of the emperor.
Katarina Schuth has published a sociological study of Catholic priests who serve multiple parishes, and some of what she says applies to any "circuit preacher" clergy.
Etymology In Classical Sanskrit, the word yogi (Sanskrit: masc yogī, योगी; fem yoginī) is derived from yogin, which refers to a practitioner of yoga.
Some scholars tasked themselves with copying down the manuscripts before they were burned in the ritual.
In Bengali, the word (pronounced [ˈʃami]), while carrying its original meaning, also has the meaning of "husband" in another context.
They made up a significant number of the personnel of both temples and palaces, the central institutions of Mesopotamian city-states.
Mahasiddha (Sanskrit: mahāsiddha "great adept; Tibetan: གྲུབ་ཐོབ་ཆེན་པོ, Wylie: grub thob chen po, THL: druptop chenpo) is a term for someone who embodies and cultivates the "siddhi of perfection".
Shia imams In the Shi'a context, an imam is not only presented as the man of God par excellence, but as participating fully in the names, attributes, and acts that theology usually reserves for God alone.
Outside Anglicanism Chaplain General is also used as a term outside the Anglican Church, referring to the senior chaplain in a nation's military (sometimes called the Chief of Chaplains, as in the United States military).
These include: Gossains, a group of Hindu ascetics A title given to members of the Dashanami Sampradaya established by Shankaracharya See also Gosain, Indian surname Goswami Six Goswamis of Vrindavan == References ==
There is sometimes confusion between the (Anglican) "Bishop to the Forces" and the (Roman Catholic) "Bishop of the Forces": for this reason the latter is normally given his title in full, i.e.
Although Cancho Roano's exact function is unknown, the religious character of the site is undeniable due to the presence of altars; however, the site may be a palace-shrine, judging from its defensive system.
Today, the term is sometimes used for whoever delivers a sermon at a service, whether they are ordained or a layperson.
The word also means "husband" in Malay, in which it is spelled suami, and in Khmer, Assamese and Odia.
In the West, pastoral ministry has since expanded into pastoral care, embracing many different religions and non-religious beliefs.
The title is used mainly in the Catholic Church, the Anglican Communion, and many Lutheran denominations.
In the Catholic tradition, a chaplain is also a traditional title for an auxiliary priest (i.e., priest assistant/cooperator) assigned to a parish and subordinate to its pastor.
While the specific historical details may be challenging to ascertain due to the ancient nature of the Ifá system, it is clear that the babalawo and Ifá practice have deep cultural and religious significance within the Yoruba community.
In the broader sense, Christian vocation includes the use of one's gifts in their profession, family life, church and civic commitments for the sake of the greater common good.
The title derives from Adi Shankara; teachers from the successive line of teachers retrospectively dated back to him are known as Shankaracharyas.
They have received the esoteric transmissions and empowerments (wang, lung, and thri) and have taken the associated vows (samaya).
Alternative etymologies are given by Rabbi Judah as a contraction of mar kol ("master over all"), and by Rav Chisda as a contraction of amar kulla ("he who has everything to say").
The chaplains are commissioned by the Sovereign but do not hold military rank other than that of "Chaplain Royal Navy".
The term appears in Pali literature as Isi; in Buddhism they can be either Buddhas, Paccekabuddhas, Arahats or a monk of high rank.
Orthodox Judaism A posek has to be an individual that is particularly learned in a large area of law.
Tao Yuanming (陶淵明; 365–427) was associated with farming in reclusion after his retirement from office, and his name became a common reference for later recluses farming or gardening for pleasure or for sustenance.
An example, where the spelling is 'chopchyrche', occurs as the occupation of John Charles of Bishop's Milford, Wiltshire, as a defendant in a plea of debt, for 40/- (forty shillings) brought by John Wyot, merchant of Salisbury.
The cantor (Hebrew: חַזָּן Hazzan or Hazan) in the Reform movement is a clergy member who fills a diverse role within the Jewish community.
Thus, this psalm was invoked in the epitaph of Paul of Thebes, one of the most famous grazers, who declared:Our days, mortals, are like the grass of the fields," says the prophet David.
maturity (bulugh), reasonableness (aql), being of the male sex (dhukurrat), faith (iman), justice (edalat), and legitimacy of birth.
The Śvētāmbara Terapanth and Sthanakwasi sects request written permission from a person's parents before initiating them into the ascetic order.
Sayyid Sibghatullah Shah Al-Rashidi was a champion of Hindu-Muslim unity, initially supporting the Indian National Congress and then the All India Forward Bloc.
Another one from the same kurgan takes the shape of a griffin in a frame from which two bells hang, and a third from that same kurgan splits into three branches, each topped by a bird of prey holding a bell in its beak.
Mather admonished that it was not lawful ordinarily to live without some calling: "for men will fall into "horrible snares and infinite sins"".
Their maps proved that the original roads were still in use after two thousand years with some variances due to erosion.
Some organizations do not allow the lay leader to give sacraments for example, but do allow them to perform most other portions of the service that are normally the responsibility of the clergy (e.g.
Some authors, including Marceli Kosman and Antanas Kučinskas, went further and doubted that the pagan society even had a class of religious officials.
Hawaiian surfing master Duke Kahanamoku may have been referred to as the Big Kahuna, but he rejected the term as he knew the original meaning.
Etymology and meaning The word in Arabic stems from a triliteral root connected with aging: ش-ي-خ, shīn-yā'-khā'.
In both religions, the chakravarti is supposed to uphold dharma, indeed being "he who turns the wheel (of dharma)".
Theological colleges Before Church reunion in 1929, the United Free Church of Scotland maintained its own colleges in Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Glasgow, whilst candidates for the ministry in the Church of Scotland studied in the University Faculties of Divinity.
Synonym As ustad is equivalent to pandit but used for a Muslim man, similarly a music title that is equivalent to pandit and used for an Indian man itself is given the title of vidwan.
Holy Roman Archchaplains Willigis (c982-c1007) Erkanbald (c1016-c1020) Aribo (c1023-c1028) Willegis (c1073) == References ==
Nagendranath was initially associated with the Adi Brahmo Samaj but later dedicated himself to intense spiritual practices in solitude, particularly in a cave in Monghyr.
In fact, the word gala was written using the sign sequence UŠ.KU, the first sign having also the reading g̃iš3 ("penis") & nita ("male"), and the second one bed3 ("anus") & dur2 ("buttocks"), meaning that might be a pun involved.
Machis are also said to help communities identify individuals who are using supernatural powers to do harm.
At any rate, Euripides says, ‘I am come, having left Akrokorinthos that is washed on all sides, the sacred hill-city of Aphrodite.’ [...] Korinthos, there, on account of the multitude of courtesans, who were sacred to Aphrodite, outsiders resorted in great numbers and kept holiday.
In every unit or military base there are Military Rabbinate military personnel assigned responsibility for conducting or coordinating religious services, overseeing kashrut laws of the kitchen, and the maintenance of the synagogue and religious supplies.
Khorasani and Shu'aib will be settled among the specific companions of al-Mahdi, and Shu'aib ibn Salih will be appointed as the commander of all al-Mahdi's forces.
a monk watering a dry stick, day after day, for months, or endeavoring to remove a huge rock immensely exceeding his powers.
In Wales and the Welsh Marches The term "sin-eater" appears to derive from Welsh culture and is most often associated with Wales itself and in the English counties bordering Wales.
Western usage An archimandrite who does not function as an abbot has the style "The Very Reverend Archimandrite" whilst one with abbatial duties uses the style "The Right Reverend Archimandrite".
All schools of Buddhism agree that shortly after the death of the Buddha, a council of his senior students was held to clarify and record his teachings.
Rowell suggested that Peter of Dusburg invented kriwe and Romuva to portray the Baltic religion as a "counter-church".
Precepts Like the maechi of neighbouring Thailand and the dasa sil mata of Sri Lanka, thilashin occupy a position somewhere between that of an eight-precept lay follower and a fully ordained monastic.
In normal speech (either addressing the clergy or referring to them) other forms of address are often used.
Some pastoral counselors have developed special training programs to encourage cooperation between religious professionals and medical professionals on treatment of issues like addiction, since spirituality is an important part of recovery for many people.
There was also an annual festival in Cyprus that included performing sexual activities for Aphrodite herself.
Notable priests Liqa Kahenat Berhan Baruch (1910–1984) – main leader of the Beta Israel from the Italian occupation until his death.
See also Brigid - Irish Goddess and Saint served by women who tend an eternal flame Homa (ritual) - Vedic fire sacrifice where offerings are made via a sacred fire Hajji Firuz, Zoroastrian firekeeper.
See also Christian monasticism Gregory the Illuminator, Apostle of Armenia Komitas Vardapet Mesrop Mashtots Oriental Orthodoxy References Sources Pope John Paul II (3 July 2001).
A dasasīlamātā (Pali) or dasa sil mata (Sinhala: දස සිල් මාතා) is an Eight- or Ten Precepts-holding anagārikā (lay renunciant) in Buddhism in Sri Lanka, where the newly reestablished bhikkhuni (nun's) lineage is not officially recognized yet.
Islam In Islam, the role of cantor is fulfilled by an ordained muezzin, who calls the adhan in Islam for prayer, that serves as clergy in their congregations and perform all ministerial rites as imams.
However, Pashaura Singh was not able to locate any hymns attributed to Phandak in any extant Guru Granth Sahib manuscript.
Mandate and status The supreme leader of Iran is elected by the Assembly of Experts (Persian: مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: majles-e xobregân-e rahbari), which is also the only government body in charge of choosing and dismissing supreme leaders of Iran.
The Armenian Church has fourteen ranks of vardapet, which are granted to celibate priests who have completed special education and presented a thesis.
Overview The term itself is derived from the Latin for "singer", though it is frequently used to translate a range of equivalent terms in other languages such as for the leader of singing on a traditional chundan vallam or snake boat of Kerala.
In addition, it is claimed that machis have the ability to interpret dreams, called pewma in Mapudungun.
The alleged temple prostitution is famous by the descriptions made by Strabo: The temple of Aphrodite [in Korinthos in the days of the tyrant Kypselos] was so rich that it owned more than a thousand temple slaves, courtesans, whom both men and women had dedicated to the goddess.
Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who was one of the transmitters of Khomeini's letter to Montazeri's dismissal, was one of the opponents of Montazeri's dismissal at the time.
Etymology The Sanskrit phrase ācāraṁ grahāyati ācāraṁ dadāti iti vā means Acharya (or teacher) is the one who teaches good conduct to one's students.
When the city of Roman Corinth was established in 44 BC, many of the former sanctuaries were rebuilt, such as the Temple of Apollo and the Sanctuary of Demeter and Kore on Acrocorinth.
History In the ancient church, pastoral care primarily revolved around the Christians' struggle against sin, which jeopardized their ultimate salvation.
History On 15 October 2007, the Interdenominational Mission of the Prison Ministry in Ukraine (IMPMU), a group consisting of 12 Christian denominations, met to create a seminar for prison missionaries in partnership with the State Department.
The title was originally created as the State Preceptor or Guoshi (simplified Chinese: 国师; traditional Chinese: 國師; pinyin: Guóshī; lit.
Surrogates may have more extensive delegated powers, and judgments of the Arches Court of Canterbury have been delivered by a surrogate in the absence of the official principal.
Maimonides considered this presumption to be in force unless a valid objection to his lineage is made before a Beit Din.
Regulations Besides the teachers appointed by the community, there were others who were privately engaged by the parents of children; hence it became necessary to define accurately the mutual rights and duties of the melamed and of the parents.
Some songs summon the spirits, and others tell the spirits it is time to leave and end the ceremony.
The supreme leader is legally considered "inviolable", with Iranians being routinely punished for questioning or insulting him.
The rituals are performed with money, liquor, animals, and in some places, human sex slaves called trokosi, fiashidi, or woryokwe.
Overview Some denominations specifically discourage or disallow lay ministers or lay preachers from assuming certain titles.
Organization Church congregations often have a group of people that work as ushers led by a head usher.
Bhaduri Mahasaya shared much spiritual knowledge with the young Yogananda and foresaw his future mission, famously advising him: "Son, go to America.
In modern Gaudiya Vaishnavism, Swami is also one of the 108 names for a sannyasi given in Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati's Gaudiya Kanthahara, along with Goswami, also traditionally used as an honorific title.
Draus was the board chairperson of the Ukrainian Interdenominational Christian Mission from 2007 to 2011.
In the past, during papal coronations, the Protodeacon also had the honor of bestowing the pallium on the new pope and crowning him with the papal tiara.
The Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove popularized the enjoyment of alcohol and high arts like poetry and playing the guqin as recluse activities.
Almost three centuries after John Calvin's death in 1564 Thomas Carlyle would proclaim, "The latest Gospel in this world is, 'know thy work and do it.'" The legacy of this religious ethic continues to exert its influence in secular Western society.
Royal arrangement In Scotland, there were public almsmen which were supported by the king who were expected to pray for his welfare and that of the state in return.
The Śramaṇa tradition includes Jainism, Buddhism, and others such as the Ājīvika, Ajñana, and Cārvāka, while definitively excluding Hinduism.
The Proto-Slavic form is reconstructed as *žьrьcь, which is an agent noun from the verb *žьrti "to consecrate, sacrifice", which is continued by OCS жрьти, жрѣти žrěti and Old East Slavic жерети žereti and it literally means "one who makes sacrifices".
Some distinguished sayadaws would often be referred to as a sayadawgyi (ဆရာတော်ကြီး, as a sign of reverence.
With the adoption of Christianity, the pagan priests came under persecution and sometimes tried to channel social discontent against the Christian church.
Recent research has highlighted the role of the deacon "as a co-operator" and "go-between," emphasizing their intermediary position in early Christian communities.
In addition to a medium or a miko (or a geki, a male shaman), the site of a takusen may occasionally also be attended by a sayaniwa who interprets the words of the possessed person to make them comprehensible to other people present.
The office may head a local house, a region of houses (prior provincial), or the entire order (prior general).
Although the usage rabim 'many' (as 1 Kings 18:25, הָרַבִּים) 'the majority', 'the multitude' occurs for the assembly of the community in the Dead Sea Scrolls, there's no evidence to support an association of this use with the later title "rabbi".
However, kamisama are sighted, typically claiming prophetic powers in the aftermath of a traumatic disease.
"The people long brooded in silence over the oppressions and outrages of this high caste, whom they deeply hated but greatly feared.
Historian Nora Chadwick, in a categorization subsequently adopted by Piggott, divided the Classical accounts of the druids into two groups, distinguished by their approach to the subject and their chronological contexts.
The Umayyads lost the position of caliph in Damascus in 750, and Abd al-Rahman I became Emir of Córdoba in 756 after six years in exile.
Grand Imam The "Grand Imam" or "Imam of imams" (Arabic: الإمام الأكبر) of the Al-Azhar Mosque and Al-Azhar University is a prestigious Sunni Islam title and a prominent official title in Egypt.
See also Rinpoches, a partial list of a few spiritual teachers of past and present commonly addressed as Rinpoche.
Cultural context In the ceremonial context of Indigenous North American communities, "medicine" usually refers to spiritual healing.
On his return he found no difficulty in exciting in others the resentment which he himself experienced.
"Shaman" is occasionally written with Chinese Buddhist transcriptions of Shramana "wandering monk; ascetic": shamen 沙門, sangmen 桑門, or sangmen 喪門.
Surname The common surname McInerney is derived from the Irish, Mac an Airchinnigh (son of the erenagh).
A great number of lay brothers left religious life in the years following the Second Vatican Council.
Women appear to have been ordained as deacons to serve the larger community until about the 6th century in the West.
A small number of schools, primarily in Israel, train priests and Levites in their respective roles.
In the Russian Orthodox Church it is an honorary title given to married deacons, as a mark of which, the clergyman is entitled to wear a burgundy-colored skufia.
Unlike Protestant and like Catholic Church, only monks whose denominations are Jogye Order could be Military Chaplains for Buddhist.
According to the book 3 Bowls: Vegetarian Recipes from an American Zen Buddhist Monastery, "While the jikijitsu is the stern father of the zendo, the jisha is the den mother, balancing the strictness that his counterpoint establishes.
Kappiya is a Buddhist lay manciple (attendant or steward) who resides in a monastery (vihāra) and assists Buddhist monks (bhikkhu in Pali).
In 1860 with the reorganization of the First Presidency, Joseph Smith III became the second Prophet-President of this church and also President of a new First Presidency.
Generally, regarding sifrei Torah, none of these groups would consider that these differences would render a Torah posul (ritually unfit or invalid).
The Spanish word Padre ("father") is often informally used to address military chaplains, also in English and Portuguese (Brazil).
Their origins can be traced back to the solitary yamabito (wild hill people) and some hijiri (聖) (wandering Buddhist renunciants) of the eighth and ninth centuries.
Those monasteries which enjoy the status of being stauropegic will be subject only to a primate or his Synod of Bishops and not the local bishop.
The Kothari is a part of the temple management and is not required to take part in religious activities.
Predikant is a minister in the Dutch Reformed Church, especially in South Africa; predikant is the Afrikaans term for 'pastor'.
After surrenders to Cao Cao's forces the Celestial Master community spread out from Hanzhong to the rest of China.
Unlike the clowns, the special role of the Contraries has not been traditionally restricted to brief performances, ceremonies or war preparations.
Lower status acllas typically stayed in their regions of origin and were placed in the service of lesser religious cults or were given as gifts to Inca nobility.
Duties While the specific set of duties vary from synagogue to synagogue, a gabbai's responsibilities will typically include ensuring that the religious services run smoothly.
They are usually expected to work in viharas, essentially as maids to ordained bhikkhus, while receiving training and the opportunity to practice.
In many Christian denominations, a church usher is responsible for seating guests and maintaining the order and security of services.
Modern Greece and Cyprus In modern Greek usage, the term has the connotation of "father of the nation", and has been widely used as an epithet applied to perhaps the most influential political leader in modern Greek history: Eleftherios Venizelos.
Jainism In Jainism, the term siddha refers to liberated souls who have destroyed all karmas and obtained moksha.
In time, the pattern of a Bishop and an Abbot of Iona was established, which after the Reformation and the Dissolution of the Monasteries fell into disuse.
Those entrusted with this work but who lack a disciplined mind will only cause and endure hardship despite all their efforts.
In German-speaking countries, the German "Kaplan" is often translated as "chaplain", but in fact the two words are false friends.
They represent the Ijmah, or Islamic consensus of the Ummah on religious issues; this does not mean that there can be no disputes - far from it - but they should be aware of what counts as the main consensual opinion, of other dissenting views and their objections.
The Anglican and Roman Catholic strands of Australian Defence Force Chaplaincy have websites that explain their church's mission within the Australian Defence Force.
They are generally part of the syncretic shugendō religion, which includes Tantric Buddhism and Shinto.
"synagogue chief") was the officer who supervised matters pertaining to the religious services of the synagogue.
Sages of this type are said to know the truth of existence not on the basis of scientific or religious texts but through their own realization.
As Sunni Islam does not prescribe any formal hierarchy or priesthood, qadiyats are primarily found in European- and Central Asian Islamic organizations, particularly in south-eastern Europe and countries deriving from the former Soviet Union.
An Order in Council issued by King Edward VII in August 1902 granted the ecclesiastical dignity of archdeacon on the Chaplain of the Fleet.
Reclusion could even be associated with a state of mind, which did not require complete seclusion from society.
In one church the pastor (for example Fred Jones) may be called "Brother Jones", in a neighboring church he might be styled "Pastor Jones", others may call him "Brother Fred", "Pastor Fred", "Reverend Jones", "Minister Fred", "Preacher Jones" or any of a myriad of other titles and combinations.
They have chosen a desert exposed to the scorching Sun to dwell in, and there are men and women who, having entered it almost naked, endure throughout all seasons, be it the intensity of cold or the excess of heat.
The Aga Khan serves as both the religious head and temporal leader of the Ismaili community, providing spiritual guidance and overseeing extensive development and humanitarian work across Asia, Africa, and other regions where Ismailis live.
In 1454 he bestowed the office upon an illustrious Byzantine scholar-monk who was well known for his opposition to union with the Latin West, Gennadius Scholarius, who became Patriarch Gennadius II.
Joseph Shalit Riqueti: Italy and Germany (with the preceding, author of Iggeret Mesapperet) 1688–1692.
A zhrets is a priest in the Slavic religion whose name is reconstructed to mean "one who makes sacrifices".
Nath sampradaya Whenever siddha is mentioned, the 84 siddhas and 9 nathas are remembered, and it is this tradition of siddha which is known as the Nath tradition.
This education for itako takes about three years, and also includes memorization of songs and sutras.
5th and 6th century Photius of Constantinople, condemned as a heresiarch, due to the Photian schism at the Fourth Council of Constantinople.
According to author Seyyed Vali Nasr, Khomeini appealed to the masses, during the pre-1979 period, by referring to them as the oppressed and with charisma and political ability was tremendously successful.
Such outside jobs may not keep them from observing their obligations of the eremitic vocation of stricter separation from the world and the silence of solitude in accordance with canon 603, under which they have made their vow.
During the period of British rule in the Indian subcontinent, kings who were the patrons of temples lost their power, thus the temple artist communities also lost their significance.
Amarakosha (the famous Sanskrit synonym lexicon compiled by Amarasimha) mentions seven types of riṣis : Shrutarshi, Kāndarshi, Paramarshi, Maharshi, Rājarshi, Brahmarshi and Devarshi.
Prior to the admission to the investiture and later before simple and perpetual vows, the master of novices is asked for his assessment.
He became a very popular role model for Shiites, and hoped for the Iranian Revolution to be the first step to a much larger Islamic revolution, transcending Shia Islam, in the same way that Vladimir Lenin and Leon Trotsky had wanted their revolution to be a world revolution, not just a Russian one.
In other Orders, like the Camaldolese and Carthusians, conventual priors are the norm and there are no abbots.
As a debtera, he will be closer to the laypeople and serve as an intermediary between them and the clergy.
Zhang Lu's political success can be in part attributed to his administrative organization and the use of libationer as not only religious leaders but also civil servants.
The inauguration of Aaron and his sons to perform the holy service in the tabernacle is related in Exodus and Leviticus: And Aaron and his sons I will sanctify to serve me.
Despite their wild existence, it appears that they had regular meal times, following biblical patterns of eating at specific hours.
In 2019, nine foreigners were given the title Mahamandaleshwar for the first time at the Kumbh Mela.
After this he got up from the cricket and pronounced the ease and rest of the soul departed, for which he would pawn his own soul.
They are said to have been formed by the philosopher and renunciant Adi Shankara, believed to have lived in the 8th century CE, though the full history of the sect's formation is not clear.
Prestige is not limited to male priests; a priestess, Halyna Lozko from Ukraine, is an acknowledged authority within the Slavic Native Faith movement.
Sources differ as to when the institution of the marja' emerged, with Murtadha al-Ansari (died 1864) and Muhammad ibn Ya'qub al-Kulayni (died 940 or 941) both being called the first marja'.
The angakkuq would then beg or fight with Sedna to ensure that his people would not starve, and Inuit believed that his pleading and apologies on behalf of his people would allow the animals to return and hunters to be successful.
Shira Feder writing for The Forward has stated that in most kosher homes "you'll find a female mashgiach bustling about the kitchen — it is often women, after all, who are tasked with the job of maintaining a kosher kitchen...
It is predicted that he will to move to Kufah with Sufyani at one common day, and then defeat the Sufyani's army with his own army.
Hyper-Calvinism rejects the idea of a "universal call", a vocation, to repent and believe, held by virtually all other Christian groups.
The Pure Standards of the Chan Monastery states; "The tenzo functions as the one who makes offerings with reverence to the monks." Since ancient times this office has been held by realized monks or by senior disciples who have roused the enlightened.
The maphrianate was based in Tagrit until 1089 upon the destruction of the main cathedral, known as the Green Church and was relocated to Mosul.
Tadibya (tádyebya; Russian: тадебя) is the mediator between the ordinary world and the upper- and underworlds of the spirits among the Nenets people.
This system provides a framework for understanding morality, human relationships, and the world at large.
This is a very difficult task because the Tibetans are very inconsistent with the transcription or translation of Indian personal names and therefore many different spellings do exist.
More than anywhere else, our knowledge of the native languages in South America has been the product of missionary activity...
Since the 1990s, some branches of Liberal Judaism have ordained lay leaders and chaplains as darshanim.
Women in the Reform Cantorate In 1968, Sally Priesand became the first woman accepted for rabbinic training at Hebrew Union College.
Family lineage ngakpas are all members of the non-celibate wing of ordained sangha, with the practice of a particular yidam being passed through the family lineage.
Near Mangalore, that later became a hub of Nath yogis, a monastery and temple was dedicated to yogis in the 10th century.
Reverse warriors In addition to the Contraries and the ceremonial clowns, many Plains tribes have recognized certain persons having the role of "reverse" warriors.
Alojzije Stepinac (8 May 1898 – 10 February 1960), Archbishop of Zagreb martyred by communist forces in Croatia, beatified on 3 October 1998.
Shankaracharya (Sanskrit: शङ्कराचार्य, IAST: Śaṅkarācārya, "Shankara-acharya") is a religious title used by the heads of amnaya monasteries called mathas in the Advaita Vedanta tradition of Hinduism.
Each diocese usually has a cathedral Dean, in charge of the cathedral church, and a series of area deans to supervise the clergy in a given geographical area.
Panditrao was a title of the appointed high priest that sat on the Council of 8 (Ashta Pradhan) in the early Maratha Empire.
Etymology The noun mohel ('mohala' in Aramaic), meaning "circumciser", is derived from the same verb stem as milah (circumcision).
Early history In Egypt, the first home of monasticism, the jurisdiction of the abbot, or archimandrite, was but loosely defined.
Melik Pashayan's research states that the cult of Anahit originates from Hayasa-Azzi with Middle Eastern influence, this research is cited by Armen Petrosyan and Hamazasp Khachatryan.
Catholic In the Catholic Church, the form of address depends on the office the person holds, and the country in which he is being addressed as they are usually identical to the titles used by their feudal or governmental equals.
Because Wikipedia's article on Sri Aurobindo describes him as a Maharishi, sites around the world which use Wikipedia's phrasing repeat this inclusion.
Mawlana (; from Persian, Arabic: مولانا), also spelled as Molana or Maulana, is a title preceding, mostly in South Asia, the name of respected Muslim religious leaders, in particular graduates of religious institutions, e.g.
For the last two centuries, it has not been uncommon to adopt this title by many learned people from other castes (Nair, Ezhava, Thiyya, Christian Nadar) as well.
Deacons may have the title of hierodeacon (a monk who has been ordained to the deaconate), archdeacon or protodeacon.
Until 1983, the 1917 Code of Canon Law (canons 471–476) distinguished 5 types of parochial vicars: vicarius actualis, vicarius oeconomus, vicarius substitutus, vicarius adiutor, and vicarius cooperator,[needs translation] the latter of whom is traditionally called a chaplain.
In the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, ordained presbyters are referred to by various publications, including Finnish ones, as pastors, or priests.
Shu'ayb's soldiers number is said to be 4,000, and he is described as the commander of a (Khorasani) individual resurrection who is from Banu Hashim.
Broadly speaking, therefore, a Bhagat is a holy person or a member of a community whose objectives involve leading humanity towards God and highlighting injustices in the world.
The Russian North Caucasus muftiates are united into the Coordinating Center of North Caucasus Muslims.
Once the council had agreed on the contents of the teachings, they acknowledged their acceptance of the sutras by reciting them together.
One of the reasons of Montazeri's resignation were government policies that Montazeri claimed infringed on people's freedom and denied them their rights, especially after the 1988 mass execution of political prisoners.
About two months after his brother's death in 1327, Kunga Lekpa Jungne Gyaltsen got appointed by emperor Yesün Temür as the new Imperial Preceptor.
Acharya is a Sanskrit word meaning "teacher", so Shankaracharya means a "teacher in the tradition of Shankara".
It soon began to be applied to those who felt drawn to a more rigorous observance of their faith through the contemplative lifestyle of the hermits and monks and nuns.
International position Under international law, a serving head of state has sovereign immunity from the jurisdiction of the courts of other countries, though not from that of international tribunals.
Church of England In the Church of England, the Chancellor is the judge of the consistory court of the diocese.
Traditionally, many Nyingma ngakpas wear uncut hair and white robes and these are sometimes called "the white-robed and uncut-hair group" (Wylie: gos dkar lcang lo'i sde).
Each of these was called circa (or circator), because it was his duty to make the rounds of the monastery to see whether anything was amiss and whether the brethren were intent on the work allotted to them respectively.
The story was similar to that of Medea, as it had recently been recast for a popular Parisian play by Alexandre Soumet: the chaste goddess (casta diva) addressed in Norma's hit aria is the moon goddess, worshipped in the "grove of the Irmin statue".
Most often the deacon or deacon candidate is a long-standing member of the church, being middle aged, but younger deacons may be selected from among members of a family that has had several generations in the same church.
Shu'ayb bin Salih (Persian: شعیب بن صالح) or Saleh-ibn-Shu'ayb(or Shu'aib ibn Salih) is prophesied to rebel before the al-Mahdi's reappearance and his uprising is among the signs of the reappearance of the twelfth and final Imam of Shia Islam, the Mahdi according to some Islamic narrations.
The ecumenical patriarch has no direct jurisdiction outside the Patriarchate of Constantinople granted to him in Orthodox canonical literature, but his primary function regarding the whole Orthodox Church is one of dealing with relations between autocephalous and autonomous churches.
Tsangpa Gyare was recognized as the Bodhisattva of Great Compassion Avalokiteśvara in human form, as well as an incarnation of the first Buddhist King of Tibet, Songtsän Gampo, of the great saint Naropa and of Milarepa's sun-like disciple Gampopa.
New persons joining ISKCON as full-time members (living in its centers) first undergo a three-month Bhakta training, which includes learning the basics of brahmacari (monastic) life.
The Evangelical Wesleyan Church instructs clergy with the following words: "We should endeavor to assist those under our ministry, and to aid in the salvation of souls by instructing them in their homes.
Lutheranism From a religious standpoint there is only one order of clergy in the Lutheran church, namely the office of pastor.
Lebanon In Lebanon, the title had the same princely and royal connotation as in the Arabian peninsula until the Ottoman invasion in 1516, since it represented an indigenous autonomous "sui iuris" ruler or tribal chief.
The term is often attributed to someone who has achieved mastery of a particular yogic system or demonstrated profound devotion (bhakti) to one or more Hindu gods.
When the country suffers a great drought, they lead the Spirit Mediums in dancing the rain-making ritual (yu 雩).
History The use of robes with trains, capes and hoods for cardinals was introduced by Pope Nicholas III (r.
As part of this initiative, the Gyalwang Drukpa led the Live to Love volunteers to break the Guinness World Record twice for most trees planted simultaneously.
Their efforts to live the commandments were not seen as being easy—many of the stories from that time recount the struggle to overcome negative emotions such as anger and judgment of others.
On this basis, the compound has been variously interpreted as 'oak-knower, well versed in oaks', 'knower of trees', possibly 'knower of the world-tree', or the priest with 'strong insight'.
A gonagas (or konagas) (Pite Sami: gånågas), bird man, was a shaman ranking level in Northern Scandinavia amongst noayddes.
Jainism encourages fasting, yoga practices, meditation in difficult postures, and other austerities.
The French government had required all priests and bishops to swear an oath of fidelity to the new order or face dismissal from the Church, and had forbidden any form of religious life.
Dissenting votes are rare and have even more rarely prevented a person from holding the proposed position.
On the pewter badge which they wore were their name and the words "pass and repass," which authorised them to ask alms.
In pre-modern Japanese society, blindness was widely associated with spiritual capabilities; after the introduction of Buddhism, it was considered evidence of a karmic debt.
Additionally, Strabo argues that though scholars had proclaimed that Corinthian women were involved in sacred prostitution, the only references to this in writing through the phrase “ἐργαζομένων ἀπὸ τοῦ σώματος”.
In this case, the mashgiach/mashgicha obtains a valid letter of certification from the certifying rabbi or kashrut agency, usually by contacting the manufacturer.
Historically, the position was held by members of the Al-Sheikh family, descendants of Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, with the exception of Ibn Baz.
Īshān (from Persian ایشان 'they'; Chagatay: ایشان; Kazakh: ишан; Kyrgyz: эшен; Tajik: эшон; Tatar: ишан; Turkmen: işan; Uyghur: ئىشان; Uzbek: eshon; Chinese: 依禪; pinyin: yīchán) is an honorific title given to Sufi leaders in Central Asia.
Another example of Rajarshi is King Janaka, who is said to have attained self-Knowledge from the ascetic sage Astavakra.
It is especially the name of a celebrated Sanskrit grammarian, author of the Ṛgveda-Prātiśākhya, the Bṛhaddevatā, the Caraṇa-vyūha, six Anukramaṇīs (indices) to the Rigveda, and the Vidhāna of the Rigveda.
Beginning with Koli Tenguella, the rulers of the region took Silatigi as their royal title, as did clan leaders in the Sultanate of Massina.
Conservative Judaism – Around 300 women rabbis are associated with Conservative Judaism worldwide: Rabbinical Assembly (USA) – as of 2010, 273 (17%) of the 1,648 members of the Rabbinical Assembly were women.
According to the Talmud, the wearing of the Priestly tunic and the rest of the priestly garments atoned for the sin of bloodshed on the part of the Children of Israel (B.Zevachim 88b).
The Ashkenazi, Sefardi, Chabad (Lubavitch), and Mizrahi Jews each have their own script for forming the letters, though the same rules apply throughout the text.
Diaconal candidates receive instruction in philosophy, theology, study of the Bible, homiletics, sacramental studies, evangelization, ecclesiology, counseling, and pastoral care and ministry before ordination.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Игумен, настоятель монастыря" .
Turkish Mawlawi fraternity of Sufis (Muslim mystics) was founded in Konya (Qonya), Anatolia, by the Persian Sufi poet Jalal ad-Din ar-Rumi (d.
This was done to help improve the position of Miaphysites within the Persian Empire, refuting accusations of favouring the Byzantines.
Catholicism The word "pontiff", though now most often used in relation to a pope, technically refers to any Catholic bishop.
The sixth Imam of Shia says about the place of uprising, "[t]he rise of the Sufyani will be from Syria (Sham) and the rise of the Yemani will be from Yemen.
In modern colloquial usage, "hermit" denotes anyone living apart from the rest of society, or having entirely or in part withdrawn from society, for any reason.
This tying of the centre to the periphery was one of the most important aspects of the sacrifice of acllas.
The Four Chaplains Memorial Foundation official website Library of Congress audio and video history interviews of former U.S.
Examples of this sanctification include assisting the priest in abstaining from forbidden marriages, to maintain a general state of purity, and to furnish the priest with gifts (later in rabbinical sources, counted as Twenty-four priestly gifts) to carry out his required duties.
An auscultare, meaning 'to hear', 'to listen', was a person appointed in monasteries to hear monks read prayers, and instruct them on the reading of prayers, before they were admitted to read publicly in the church, or before the people.
As a result of the gendered perception that machis are usually female, many male machi face discrimination from fellow Mapuche and Chilean society as a whole.
The medieval precursors of the hymn are numerous and include hymns, responsories and antiphons dedicated to many saints and martyrs, even non-militant ones such as Cosmas and Damian.
The theological colleges now form integral academic schools at the universities of St Andrews, Glasgow, Aberdeen and Edinburgh.
A Prior Provincial and is the regional superior of certain Orders, such as the Order of Friars Preachers Dominicans or the Carmelite friars.
Notes on the cuneiform: by convention Akkadian is italicised, spoken Sumerian is lowercase and cuneiform sign transliteration is uppercase.
There has been three Executive Ministers of the church since the Iglesia's founding in 1914 and all of them came from the Manalo family.
Role and functions of the emissary The Shadarim were highly respected as living symbols of the continuity of the Jewish presence in the Land of Israel.
The Imamate of Futa Jallon (1727–1896) was a Fulani state in West Africa where secular power alternated between two lines of hereditary imams, or almami.
Pastoral counselors often integrate modern psychological theory and methods with traditional religious training in an effort to relieve psychospiritual concerns in addition to the conventional spectrum of counseling services.
Āśān (IPA: [aːʃaːn, aːsaːn]) is a Malayalam and Tamil surname and title that means teacher or guide.
Today, most congregational rabbis are members of a national rabbinic organization related to their movement, and there is often an association of local rabbis in their city.
All elders are members of the Kirk session, and may train to chair the session, conduct funerals, preach and lead worship.
The latter are not necessarily shamans, and their function is merely to hold sacrifices (the word zhrets literally means "sacrificer", from Proto-Slavic *žьrti, and is cognate of Slavic words for "offering").
Rinpoche, also spelled Rimpoche (Tibetan: རིན་པོ་ཆེ་, Wylie: rin po che, THL: Rinpoché, ZWPY: Rinboqê), is an honorific term used in the Tibetan language.
In the Zohar In Zoharistic Kabbalah, she is a queen of the demons and an angel of sacred prostitution, who mates with archangel Samael along with Lilith and Naamah, sometimes adding Eisheth as a fourth mate.
Texts teaching sofrut The main texts from which Ashkenaz soferim learn the scribal art include the Keset Ha-Sofer, Chasdey David, Mishnah Berurah (24-45), Mishneh Torah (Hilchot Tefillin u'Mezuzah v'Sefer Torah, Hilchot Tzitzit), Mishnat Hasofer, Mishnat Sofrim, and the Likkut Sifrey Stam.
Criticism Contact of Christian missionaries with isolated tribes is asserted as a cause of the extinction of some tribes, such as extinction from infections and even simple diseases such as flu, to which many tribes have no immunity.
The word is used in the context of Tibetan Buddhism as a way of showing respect when addressing those recognized as reincarnated, older, respected, notable, learned and/or an accomplished Lamas or teachers of the Dharma.
Additionally, rank and hierarchy are not the same, with hierarchy more important for determining status than rank.
The kohen giving grace after meal The Kohen is given the honor to initiate grace after the meal provided three adult male Jews have dined together.
On 17 July 2009, he received the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters (Hon DLitt) from Aston University at its Degree Congregation.
One of the main goals of monasticism was the purgation of self and selfishness, and obedience was seen as a path to that perfection.
In the Holy Roman Empire, a prince-abbot (German: Fürstabt) was the cleric who headed a princely abbey.
The term iyaláwo indicates a woman who has knowledge of sacred wisdom that may include Ifa but goes beyond Ifá.
In the Indian philosophical tradition, the terms āstika versus nāstika largely equate to this distinction between Vedic versus non-Vedic (Śramaṇa) belief systems.
In this letter, he supposedly "emphasised that he had always been of the opinion that the marja'iyat was not a requirement for the office of leader".
Previously, Hyrcanus II, one of the later Hasmonean rulers of Judea, had also held the title of ethnarch, as well as that of High Priest.
This Dvija-ceremony was recommended in medieval era texts for the Brahmins (priests and teachers), Kshatriyas (warriors), and Vaishyas (farmers & merchants) before they began their schools.
Since they were essentially itinerant, they confided the fixed necessary functions relating to the daily life of the community to the care of some of the better-educated and highly respected converts.
The prince-abbot had a seat and an individual vote (votum virile) in the Imperial Diet alongside the prince-bishops.
Qadiyat or Qaziyat (alternative spellings: Kadiyat or Kaziyat) (Russian: Кадиат) in Islam is a territorial division associated with a qadi; in some cases subordinate to the mufti and muftiate.
The hogon is central to a wide range of fertility and marriage rituals, which are closely related to Dogon origin myths.
With the legalization of Christianity and the threat of paganism dwindling from the passage of time, the use of the word priest was adopted from presbyter; as they felt there was no longer a chance of their faith being confused with the ideas, philosophies and culture of the Roman religion.
As may be supposed, this surname arose in various areas in Ireland leading to numerous unrelated bearers of the name.
In contemporary Western culture German novelist Hermann Hesse, long interested in Eastern, especially Indian, spirituality, wrote Siddhartha, in which the main character becomes a Samana upon leaving his home.
Circuit preaching became common during and between the Second Great Awakening and Third Great Awakening in the United States.
The hypothesis is supported by the presence of looms in two of the chambers, evoking the weavers of the goddess Asherah who worked as prostitutes in the ancient Temple of Jerusalem.
"Other communities": This group contains communities that are ecumenical (including Anglicans) or that belong to non-Anglican churches that have entered into relationships of full communion with the Anglican Church (particularly, but not only, certain Lutheran churches).
To be in divine ecstasy and simultaneously to be actively wakeful is the paramahamsa state; the 'royal swan' of the soul floats in the cosmic ocean, beholding both its body and the ocean as manifestations of the same Spirit.
Shakerism Among the Shakers, noted for their acceptance of females in leading roles, Elders and Eldresses were leaders in specific areas.
The Zen Monastic Standards states; "Putting the mind of the Way to work, serve carefully varied meals appropriate to each occasion and thus allow everyone to practice without hindrance." The Tenzo does much more than a "cook" does.
The Big Four refers to the four contemporary leading Grand Ayatollahs of Twelver Shia Islam based in the holy city of Najaf in Iraq.
Use of the term Among East European Jews, the word "melamed" is synonymous with respected and "rov," and the Yiddish term rebe is often used to mean a melamed as well as a Hasidic rebbe.
Marcelo Spínola y Maestre (14 January 1835 – 19 January 1906), Archbishop of Seville and founder of the Handmaids of the Divine Heart, beatified on 29 March 1987.
Differences between terms While iyaláwo and ìyánífá are often used interchangeably, the terms have different denotations and connotations.
"Two Old Akkadian Letters Concerning the Offices of kala'um and närum." In Zeitschrift für Assyriologie 82.
Sindima, Jain monastic community had 6,000 sadhvis of which less than 100 belong to the Digambara tradition and rest to Śvetāmbara.
Seyyed Khorasani Shu'ayb ibn Salih has been narrated in (most of) the hadiths that will be from the city of Rey, and it has been mentioned that he will be with Seyyed Khorasani who has the politic leadership of Iranians.
Another condition is being able to raise enough money "to finance the education of religious students" from donations from the believers, is one of the qualifications of a marja'.
Allamah (Arabic: عَلَّامَة) is an Islamic honorary title for a profound scholar, a polymath, a man of vast reading and erudition, or a great learned one.
The National Portrait Gallery holds Strong's correspondence with colleagues and acquaintances, mostly of a semi-personal nature concerning his personal commitments and achievements.
After large number of widows were left derelict by the massacres of the Khmer population between 1975 and 1979, new donchee communities were formed as shelters.
Ethnarch (pronounced , also ethnarches, Greek: ἐθνάρχης) is political leadership over a common ethnic group or homogeneous kingdom.
Chief Imam of Ghana (also referred to as National Chief Imam or Grand Mufti of Ghana, "or simply" Chief Imam) is a de facto title for the highest Muslim religious authority in Ghana.
These searched among their ancestral registration, but it could not be located; therefore they were considered unclean and excluded from the priesthood.
This biannual procedure is dictated by church theology, which states that the church shall be governed by the common consent of its membership.
ISBN 1-884904-00-9 Sixteen questions about church vocations, VISION Catholic Religious Vocation Network, http://www.vocation-network.org/articles/show/131 The HarperCollins Encyclopedia of Catholicism, Richard P.
The Trungpa tülkus are a line of incarnate Tibetan lamas who traditionally head Surmang monastery complex in Kham, now Surmang.
It is also thought that the austere practices of the sadhus help to burn off their karma and that of the community at large.
A protodeacon (Ecclesiastical Greek: πρωτοδιάκονος protodiakonos, "first deacon") is a distinction of honor awarded to senior deacons, usually serving on the staff of the diocesan bishop.
The Association of Shinto Shrines was established in 1946 after the dismantling of the State Shinto system during the American occupation following World War II which removed all government support of shrines.
The Executive Minister of the Iglesia ni Cristo (Filipino: Tagapamahalang Pangkalahatan ng Iglesia ni Cristo) is the primary leader of the Philippine-based Christian new religious movement known as the Iglesia ni Cristo.
On the north side, it can be assumed that the cities of Magnopolis and Neocaesareia are very near, so that they are limited.
The Araba is often regarded as the highest-ranking babalawo in a town or region, serving as both a spiritual and community leader.
Schodt: These positively medieval-looking nature worshipers carry metal staves and conch shells and wear straw sandals and sometimes a hemp cloth over-robe with the Heart Sutra written on it.
Potential reestablishment During the presidency of Hassan Rouhani and amid longstanding rumors of Khamenei's declining health, it was recommended to Khamenei to reestablish the office of Deputy Supreme Leader to better facilitate the transition to new leadership.
The Ifa Odu Odi Ogbe speaks of a woman divining and performing ritual sacrifice for Orunmila by the name Eruko-ya-l'egan o d'Oosa also known as Orisa Oke.
Imam as-Sadiq was reported saying: Coming out of three groups "Sufyani, Khorasani and Yamani" will be in: a year, a month, and a day.
Nonetheless, Freund's theories have been widely dismissed in academic circles, and the symbol is not much more than a typical warrior shield engraved in the Southwestern Stelae from the Iberian Peninsula, of which there are many examples.
Abhorred by the superstitious villagers as a thing unclean, the sin-eater cut himself off from all social intercourse with his fellow creatures by reason of the life he had chosen; he lived as a rule in a remote place by himself, and those who chanced to meet him avoided him as they would a leper.
Usage Since the 15th century, the title has been a political one, granted by Popes to men who have led military campaigns defending Christianity.
The work of gender researchers like Daniel Arnaud, Julia Assante and Stephanie Budin has cast the whole tradition of scholarship that defined the concept of sacred prostitution into doubt.
In some branches of Christianity, the lead cantor is called the precentor, and is assisted by a succentor.
It is used twenty-eight times in the Gospels and Acts of the members of the Jewish Sanhedrin and twelve times in Revelation of the representatives of the redeemed people of God.
If several protodeacons serve at the same time, their order of precedence is determined by the date of their elevation.
Succession controversies There have been calls for Government of Ghana to give constitutional backing to the Chief Imam's office; as of January 2016, no major initiative has begun to look into the process.
As such, the Tendai school developed an ordination system that did not rely on the traditional Vinaya precepts, marking a radical break with Buddhist monastic tradition.
Buddhism In Buddhism the term "Muni" is used as a title of Gautama Buddha — who, being born among the tribe of the Śākyas, is called Śākyamuni (sage of the Shakyas).
Modern practice Since the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE, Jewish priests have not performed sacrificial services.
The Indian sultanates did not extensively strive for a caliphate since the Ottoman Empire was already observing the caliphate.
It was not unknown for a scholaster to take the revenues of the post and deputise somebody else to carry out any teaching work involved.
See also Sesshin Dai_Bosatsu_Zendo_Kongo-ji External links Traditional Zen Sesshin at the Dai Bossatsu Monastery Diary of a lay student in Sesshin Archived 2009-09-09 at the Wayback Machine
Usually, an ishan will have inherited his position from within his family and pass it on to his descendants." List of īshāns Afaq Khoja Muhammad Ali Madali Hazrat Ishaan See also Shaykh == References ==
This relentless inner drive, combined with their composed nature, makes them inclined towards creative thinking, spiritual depth, and analytical clarity.
Mullahs with varying levels of training lead prayers in mosques, deliver religious sermons, and perform religious ceremonies such as birth rites and funeral services.
Herbal healing is a common practice in many Indigenous households of the Americas; however, medicine people often have more in-depth knowledge of using plants for healing or other purposes.
The Grand Imam of al-Azhar is considered, by some Muslims, to be the highest authority in Sunni Islamic thought and Islamic jurisprudence and holds great influence on followers of the theological Ash'ari and Maturidi traditions worldwide.
The exclusive possession of the priesthood by Aaron's descendants was known as the priestly covenant.
In critical scholarship, this portion, as well as the majority of the remainder of Deuteronomy, was written by the Deuteronomist.
This is currently a contested issue for many Orthodox institutions, leading some to seek alternate clerical titles and roles for women (e.g., Toanot Rabniyot and Yoetzet Halacha).
Status and authority First Vatican Council The status and authority of the pope in the Catholic Church was dogmatically defined by the First Vatican Council on 18 July 1870.
In the classical legal system, fatwas issued by muftis in response to private queries served to inform Muslim populations about Islam, advise courts on difficult points of Islamic law, and elaborate substantive law.
For more than twelve years the Venerable Ascetic Mahavira neglected his body and abandoned the care of it; he with equanimity bore, underwent, and suffered all pleasant or unpleasant occurrences arising from divine powers, men, or animals.
The spirits Solomon communicated with Agrat were all placed inside of a genie lamp-like vessel and set inside of a cave on the cliffs of the Dead Sea.
Kiev Metropolis Initially, in some cases it served as an extra title: for example, manuscripts of 1174 mention Hegumen Polikarp of Kiev Cave Monastery as "Hegumen Archimandrite".
Vidutana, strong shamans standing in contact with the upper world Yanyani tadebya, shamans belonging to the earth Sambana shamans, shamans able to receive messages from dead people and to perform other rituals concerning the dead.
However in the modern era they instead memorise the founding books of each field (sometimes in the form of poetry to aid memorisation).
In gamer culture, a newbie is an inexperienced player with a low level, rank, or in-game abilities but wants to participate and improve, and a noob is a bad player who seems disinterested in learning or teamwork and trolls other players.
(Harper: San Francisco, 1995) Who Are My Brothers?: Cleric-Lay Relationships in Men's Religious Communities, Philip Armstrong, C.S.C., ed.
The vestments that were unique to the high priest were: Priestly robe (Hebrew מְעִיל‎ me'il): a sleeveless, blue robe, the lower hem of which was fringed with small golden bells alternating with pomegranate-shaped tassels in blue, purple, and scarlet—tekhelet, argaman, tolaat shani.
A Hindu mantrik is known to worship Kali and is often mentioned in the same breath as tantric, though there are subtle differences.
In the Mahabarata, he is identified as the son of Ruru and Pramadvara, and in the Bhagavata Purana, he is identified as the grandson of Gritsamada and son of Sunaka, who belongs to the Bhrigu dynasty.
1650–1716) includes the following description of the sin-eating ritual in his Letter on Leland's Collectanea, i.
Using a traditional drum, which is the most important symbol and tool of the Sámi noaidi, they invoke assistance from benevolent spirits and conducted out-of-body travel via the "free soul" with the help of other siida members.
One rises from Yemen who will not support the promised Mahdi but will fight Sufyani and finally die.
Etymology According to The Jewish Encyclopedia, the word is from the Persian amarkir or Armenian hamarakar, meaning "master of finance".
Each mahalla or congregation is managed by an elected body called a mutavalliat composed of members of the congregation.
Gender is not determined by sex, as it typically is in Chilean society, but rather by identity and spirituality, and is ambiguous among machi.
Ancient Egypt In ancient Egypt, a high priest was the chief priest of any of the many gods revered by the Egyptians.
The Grand Imam heads the Al-Azhar Al Sharif, al-Azhar Mosque, and by extension al-Azhar University, and is responsible for official religious matters along with the Grand Mufti of Egypt.
The term shamash is sometimes used for the gabbai, the caretaker or "man of all work" in a synagogue.
In 2006, UGCC major archbishop Lubomyr Husar established the Department for Pastoral Care in the Armed Forces and in the Penitentiary System of Ukraine.
An Indian woman, who is an expert in Indian classical music, is given the title of pandita or vidushi.
A chop-church, or church-chopper, was a parson who made a practice of exchanging ecclesiastical benefices.
Since they do not fit conventional gender stereotypes, these feminine male machis are made outcasts and called derogatory names.
A circuit preacher is a Christian minister who, in response to a shortage of ministers, officiates at multiple churches in an area, thus covering a "circuit".
These editors were the first to use the word apophthegms (meaning: saying, maxim or aphorism), resulting in this collection being known as Apophthegmata Patrum Alphabetica (The Sayings of the Desert Fathers: The Alphabetical Collection).
This semantic expansion has meant some diminution of reference to the term's religious meanings in everyday usage.
Those serving with the Royal Marines may be selected to attempt commando training: if successful they become Royal Navy Commandos and wear the Commando green beret and, on No 1 uniform, the Commando Dagger badge.
This confession alone could be declared the solution to the problem, or acts of penance such as cleaning the urine pots or swapping wives might be necessary.
Seeking more stability within the chaplaincy, on 31 December 1775 George Washington asked for a pay raise for the chaplains, noting that some owed more money to the clergy replacing them in their church than they were being paid by the military.
For example, the Saudi Arabian family Al ash-Sheikh (literally House of the Sheikh) is named after the religious leader and eponymous founder of Wahhabism, Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab.
Current use At present the chief duty of a surrogate in England is the granting of marriage licences, so that although often nominated by the bishop, the person appointed is in fact a surrogate to the Chancellor (chief judge) of the diocese.
The first two are restrictions, and the third is positively framed in what the monk is encouraged to do daily.
In Burma, an eight precept nun is addressed as thilashin or sayalay, whereas a fully ordained woman is called a rahan-ma ("female monk").
The ceremony may be performed for one person at a time, or for a small group of people together, depending on the severity of the case and the strength and ability of the medicine man leading the ceremony.
He studied with Kongtrul Rinpoche for many years before returning to Surmang, and at that point had the reputation of a realized teacher.
Llewellyn Henry Gwynne was from July 1915 deputy chaplain-general of the army in France, with the relative rank of major-general.
Mkhitar Gosh writes that a cleric could only receive the title of vardapet after examination by a panel of two or three vardapets.
There, the Silatigi were originally religious leaders privy to the highest secrets of initiation and tasked with performing the rituals necessary to appease the spirits.
Etymology Paramahamsa is a Sanskrit word translated as 'supreme swan'.The word is compounded of Sanskrit परम parama meaning 'supreme', 'highest', or 'transcendent' (from PIE per meaning 'through', 'across', or 'beyond', cognate with English far) and Sanskrit हंस hamsa meaning 'swan or wild goose'.
In 1566 and 1568, Pope Pius V rejected this classification, but their presence was tolerated and they continued to increase in number.
As Sunni Islam does not prescribe any formal hierarchy or priesthood, muhtasibats are primarily found in Eastern European and Central Asian Islamic organizations, particularly in countries part of the former Soviet Union.
Witness statements have been posted on social media and documentations provided by the local Buddhist association have proven that the monasteries were Drukpa until at least 2006.
However The post of Mahant can be achieved by a person of any caste, even today many castes are involved in the Mahant/joggi post.
In an effort to instill self-confidence, the Gyalwang Drukpa has also authorized them to learn kung fu, training that was off-limits to women for over two centuries.
Hellenistic world In the Greek-influenced and colonised world, "sacred prostitution" was known in Cyprus (Greek-settled since 1100 BC), Sicily (Hellenised since 750 BC), in the Kingdom of Pontus (8th century BC) and in Cappadocia (c.
First Conference on the Role of Khmer Buddhist Don Chee and Lay Women in the Reconciliation of Cambodia, Heinrich Boll Foundation, Cambodia, 1995.
4th century Aëtius & Eunomius, leaders of Anomoeanism, condemned at the 1st Council of Constantinople.
Diouf, Mahawa, "L'information Historique: L'exemple du Siin." Ethiopiques n°54 revue semestrielle de culture négro-africaine.
After leaving the V&A, Strong published a set of diaries that became notorious for its critical assessments of figures in the art and political worlds.
Cultural role The Contraries of the Plains Indians are traditionally individuals committed to an extraordinary life-style in which they do the opposite of what others normally do.
Russell said that the Middle Persian form indicates that the Christian Armenian title was adopted on the model of a Sasanian Zoroastrian office.
The 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica states in its article on sin-eaters: A symbolic survival of [sin-eating] was witnessed as recently as 1893 at Market Drayton, Shropshire.
At length a daring young man, a member of an influential family, organized a conspiracy among the people for the massacre of the priesthood.
Some common elements in this relationship include: The establishment of a teacher/student relationship.
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (1918–2008) was an Indian guru, known for developing the Transcendental Meditation technique and for his association with the Beatles.
Fenech, Phandak was a Nirgun sant, of which a single hymn attributed to him is found in one recension of the Guru Granth Sahib.
Melania the Elder was also educated and held the ability to read and write, separating her from other ascetic leaders and women.
Thus the Rector of Sherborne (for example) upon taking up the office becomes known as Rector of Sherborne and Surrogate.
See also Auscultation Notes References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
In recent years, the Catholic Church in England and Wales has introduced the custom of designating cathedral deans, formerly known as cathedral administrators.
Sunnis and Shias who have achieved scholarship in several disciplines are often referred to by the title.
Santa Maria della Purità In 1538, Pope Paul III gave the custody of the small church of Santa Maria della Purità in the Roman rione of Borgo to the association of caudatari.
Mahamandaleshwar (or Maha Mandaleshwar) is a title used by some Hindu monks of the Dashanami order of swamis, founded by Shankaracharya.
Redistributing women was an extremely successful way of gaining the loyalty of those who had just been conquered by the Inca because it conferred status to the families of selected women and helped to build trust between officials and locals.
Initiation Most babaylan inherited their status from an older babaylan they were apprenticed to, usually a relative.
Today, each of the former Soviet Republics with significant Muslim populations have their own independent Spiritual Boards.
Legal status Craft kahuna were never prohibited; however, during the decline of native Hawaiian culture, many died and did not pass on their wisdom to new students.
The terms "sayadaw" and "sayadawgyi" originally corresponded to the senior monks who taught the former Burmese kings.
List of incumbents Osman Nuhu Sharubutu 1993—present See also Anbariya Sunni Community == References ==
The Pekidei Kushta coordinated missions across defined geographical regions: "Turkey," "Europe" (Frankiya), the Maghrib, and ‘Arabistan (Middle East to South Asia).
On the other hand, the rank of archimandrite fell into disuse in the Church of Alexandria from the late 16th century.
Kshatriyakulavatans Chhatrapati Maharaj Maharani Peshwa PratapRao Appa Sardar Deshmukh Patil Rao Sikh honorific Sardar Sardarni Giani Nepali (Gorkhali) honorifics Associated with the Khas Kings of Nepal, esp.
They have to possess a very clear command of the Talmud, the Shulchan Aruch (code of Jewish law) and legal responsa with practical applications.
Notable persons Kumaran Asan, one of the triumvirate poets of modern Kerala References External links Media related to Aasaan at Wikimedia Commons
She is also "the mistress of the sorceresses" who communicated magic secrets to Amemar, a Jewish sage.
The title is formed from the Greek prefix archi- "chief", and the Hebrew or Aramaic פרק, "pherak", division or chapter.
Rowell points to a lack of corroborating evidence from other contemporary documents or archaeological research.
2: Elizabethan (The Boydell Press, 1996) The Roy Strong Diaries 1967–1987 (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1997) ISBN 978-0-297-81841-0 The Tudor and Stuart Monarchy: Pageantry, Painting, Iconography, Vol.
Expropriation of Church property and the conditions of state control imposed on the Orthodox Theological School of Halki that have led to its closure by the Patriarchate, are also cited by human rights groups.
See also Satala Aphrodite Anahita Aramazd Astghik Vahagn Hayk Anat Sarpanit References Bibliography Boyce, Mary (1983), "Anāhīd", Encyclopædia Iranica, vol.
Furthermore, Bhagat is additionally a surname found among Marathas, Bania communities and Punjabi Brahmins.
Finally, an angakkuq might pass on their own personal name to their descendants, either before or after their death.
Submitter of Pneumas: In charge of distinguishing the true pneumas from deviant spirits as well as the collection of myriad demons.
His diaries from 1967 to 1987 were published in 1999, as was The Spirit of Britain: A Narrative History of the Arts, a widely acclaimed 700-page popular history of the arts in Britain through two millennia.
See also Abu al-Barakat al-Nasafi Habib al-Rahman al-A'zami Shaykh al-Islām Seghatoleslam List of ayatollahs List of maraji == References ==
Secular officiants include civil celebrants, Humanist celebrants, justices of the peace, marriage commissioners, notaries, and other persons empowered by law to perform ceremonies of legal import.
Manalo was elected Deputy Executive Minister by the INC District Ministers, also known as the Division Ministers in 1994.
anagārikā [əˈnəɡɑːrɪkɑː]) is a person who has given up most or all of their worldly possessions and responsibilities to commit full-time to Buddhist practice.
Marine Corps were killed in action during World War II: a casualty rate greater "than any other branch of the services except the infantry and the Army Air Corps" (Crosby, 1994, p.
For example, it is used by the UAE Al-Nahyan dynasty and Al Maktoum dynasty, who are considered the chiefs of the Bani Yas tribe, and by Kuwait's Al Sabah dynasty and Bahrain's Al Khalifa dynasty of the Bani Utbah tribal confederation.
Soter having succeeded Anicetus, Eleutherius does now, in the twelfth place from the apostles, hold the inheritance of the episcopate.
Sayyid Sibghatullah Shah Al-Rashidi II (Sindhi: سيد صبغت الله شاه الراشدي), Pir Pagaro the sixth, was a spiritual leader of the Hurs during the Indian independence movement.
Even the Anti-Zionist Toldos Aharon chassidic movement has established a specialized study program for Jewish priests (kohanim) to prepare for Temple service.
"Homo ludens in early Mesopotamia." In Haec studia orientalia professori Assyriologia, et filologiae Semiticae in Universitate Helsingensi Armas I.
Cultic brothels There were also rituals that prostitutes participated in that were considered more cultic, and these involved saying prayers and burning incense along with participation in venal sex with a deity who worked alongside Aphrodite at the rituals.
At the 1983 general election the seat was replaced by Witney and he remained MP for that seat until his retirement from the House of Commons in 1997 having served 23 years in Parliament.
The first maphrianate, called the Maphrianate of the East or the Maphrianate of Tagrit, was established in 628 to give the Syriac Orthodox Church an ecclesiastical hierarchy in the Sasanian Empire and lands outside the control of the Roman Empire.
One way to deal with the threats is through the use of sandboxes, which allows newcomers to try out the features and learn about the tools without causing damage to the community.
Sometime around 270, Anthony heard a Sunday sermon stating that perfection could be achieved by selling all of one's possessions, giving the proceeds to the poor, and following Jesus.
After the overthrow of the Mongol-led Yuan dynasty by the Han-led Ming dynasty, Yuan titles such as Imperial Preceptor were revoked, replaced with titles of lesser status.
Sanskritised naming of people, Sanskritised naming of places, Sankritised institutional mottos, Sanskritised educational institute names), architecture, martial arts, music and dance, clothing, and cuisine.
While the Annual Conference will usually hire outside professional counsel in legal matters requiring legal representation, that hiring and representation is done under the supervision, and with the consent, of the Conference Chancellor.
Some of the institutions and observances codified in the Priestly Code are indeed mentioned, mainly burnt-offerings, peace offerings, heave-offerings, the distinction between "clean" and "unclean", and rules about leprosy.
The rosh yeshiva will often give the highest shiur (class) and is also the one to decide whether to grant permission for students to undertake classes for rabbinical ordination, known as semicha.
If a product arrives without a hekhsher, mashgichim must make sure the product is clearly marked as non-kosher and is not used, but returned to the supplier.
The Grand Imam of al-Azhar (Arabic: الإمام الأكبر), also known as Grand Sheikh of al-Azhar (Arabic: شيخ الأزهر الشريف), is a prestigious and a prominent official title in Egypt and the Islamic world.
żyr, pożyrać "to devour": żerca turned into żyrca, and then when in all Polish words -ir- and -yr- turned into -er-, żerzec and żerca were formed.
Mawlawi generally means a highly qualified Islamic scholar, usually one who has completed full studies in a madrasa (Islamic school) or darul uloom (Islamic seminary).
(The superior of the major houses of Camaldolese nuns, however, is called an abbess.) This title, in its feminine form prioress, is used for monasteries of nuns in the Dominican and Carmelite orders.
In Vajrayana Buddhism, tantric masters are known as vajrācāryas (Tibetan: dorje lopön; Chinese: 金剛阿闍梨, pinyin: jīngāng āshélí, romanji.
Thereafter, Cairo became the capital of the caliphate, with Egypt becoming the political, cultural and religious centre of the state.
The hamsa is said to be the only creature that is capable of separating milk from water once they have been mixed; symbolically this is the display of great spiritual discrimination.
England In consequence of its use in this general sense of pensioner, "bedesman" was long used in English as equivalent to "servant." The word had a special sense as the name for those almsmen attached to cathedrals and other churches, whose duty it was to pray for the souls of deceased benefactors.
The table below gives an overview of the four main Shankaracharya Amnaya Mathas famously founded by Adi Shankara.
When the whole ordeal was over and the girl had woken up, she was permitted to wear a coloured wedding dress and perform the corresponding tradition of the wedding toast.
The Jewish liturgy is fixed and printed in siddurim (סִידּוּרים); the vocal portions are chanted by a cantor (hazzan), and the Torah portion is read by a trained reader (ba’al koreh, בַּעַל קוֹרֵא).
These confessions would be copied three times the first of which was sent to the Sovereign of Heaven.
Sex Pseudo-Hippocrates wrote that they wore women's clothing, performed women's jobs alongside other women, and acted like other women.
In Hasidic Judaism, the role of rosh yeshiva is secondary to the Rebbe, who is head of the Hasidic dynasty that controls it.
"Mobilising Mother Cabrini's educational practice: the transnational context of the London school of the Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart of Jesus 1898–1911".
Description A rajarshi may be described as a king (raja) who adopts a path of devotion, thereby becoming a royal sage (rishi).
In most denominations, lay leadership is not an ordained clerical office, and the lay leader's responsibilities vary according to the particular tradition of the congregation.
Any one who does so will go to hell, because the Yamani calls to the right path." In another Hadith, Ali al-Ridha said, "[t]he rise of Sufyani, Yemeni, and Khorasani will be at the same year, month, and day.
The master of novices must be a member of the institute; he must have taken perpetual vows and be legally appointed.
Others are titular bishops who are current or former officials within the Roman Curia, generally the heads of dicasteries and other bodies linked to the Curia.
They follow a mixture of esoteric or tantric Buddhism mixed with Shinto, the native animistic religion of Japan.
He has no ordinary jurisdiction by virtue of his office, since he performs the duties of his office entirely according to the will and under the direction of the abbot.
He was seen as an outsider, lagging behind the more charismatic Heseltine and the eventual winner, John Major, who shared the moderate centre-right political ground with Hurd but had the added advantages of youth and political momentum.
Today, Ifá continues to be practiced not only in Nigeria, where the Yoruba people are predominant but also among Yoruba diaspora communities around the world.
Ministry, including youth ministry, is considered one of the functions within the Church because most believe that people should start learning about God at a young age so they have more time to grow spiritually through adulthood.
Latin decanus should not be confused with Greek diákonos (διάκονος), from which the word deacon derives, which describes a supportive role.
The third reading, and any later readings (on Shabbat and holidays), are given to individuals who are not kohanim or Levites.
Only the "reverse" warriors use inverse speech, and only they do the opposite of what they are commanded or instructed to do (reverse reaction).
Kahen or Kohane (Ge'ez: ካህን kahən "priest", plural ካህናት kahənat) is a religious role in Beta Israel second only to the monk or falasyan.
General authority firsts See also Council on the Disposition of the Tithes List of general authorities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints References External links Grampa Bill's G.A.
Gregorio Barbarigo (16 September 1625 – 18 June 1697), Bishop of Padua who distinguished himself for his diplomatic and scholastic service, canonized on 26 May 1960.
The disciples of same guru, especially in the same cohort, are referred to as guru bhrata (brother by virtue of having same guru) or guru bhagini (sister by virtue of having same guru).
Etymology The English term derives through Old French pontif from Latin pontifex, a word commonly held to come from the Latin root words pons, pont- (bridge) + facere (to do, to make), and so to have the literal meaning of "bridge-builder", presumably between mankind and the deity/deities.
As part of the subsequent reforms and experimentation, many of the distinctions between lay and choir religious in terms of dress and spiritual regime were abolished or mitigated.
The itako trainee is dressed in a red wedding dress, and red rice and fish are consumed to celebrate her marriage to the spirit.
Mair provides archaeological and linguistic evidence that Chinese wū < *myag 巫 "shaman; witch, wizard; magician" was a loanword from Old Persian *maguš "magician; magus".
Till the second half of twentieth century the AsanKalari or Ezhuthu Kalari or Ezhuthu palli (village schools) were common in each village as it was conducted in many families of Ganaka in Travancore.
The Aga Khan was exceptional in that, while it was the local tribal influence that had enabled him to serve the British and gain their favour, his claim to nobility was based upon his claim to leadership of an entire sect of Islam.
Yet, women are permitted to inscribe Ketubot (marriage contracts), STaM not intended for ritual use, and other writings of sofrut beyond simple STaM.
Modern usage The Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church, the non-Chalcedonian churches, and similar groups typically refer to presbyters in English as priests (priest is etymologically derived from the Greek presbyteros via the Latin presbyter).
See also Archaeological field survey Excavation Shovel test pit Watching brief wikt:sondage == References ==
For example; Tapioca starch: 5-35 μm Potato starch: 15-100 μm Maize starch: 5-25 μm Rice starch: 3-8 μm but all are generally under 100 micrometres in size, and are, therefore, best observed under compound microscopes equipped with various lighting conditions and magnifications from x200 to x800.
Further reading Copeland, Lorraine., The early Upper Palaeolithic material from levels VII-V, Antelias Cave, Lebanon Berytus, 19, 99-143, 45, 1970.
Since that time, scientific results related to virtual archaeology were annually discussed, among others, at Computer Applications and Quantitative Methods in Archaeology (CAA).
Law of superposition In a series of layers and interfacial features, as originally created, the upper units of stratification are younger and the lower are older, for each must have been deposited on, or created by the removal of, a pre-existing mass of archaeological stratification.
Publications and Illustrations Twelve of his illustrations were used in Expedition Scientifique En Mésopotamie: Exécutée Par Ordre Du Gouvernement De 1851 À 1854 by Julius Oppert.
Regular daily checking of the record and the compilation of the matrix itself both help inform the individual archaeologist on the physical processes of site formation and highlight any areas where dubious relationships such as H relationships or loops in the recorded sequence may occur.
Contamination Another problem with ancient DNA samples is contamination by modern human DNA and by microbial DNA (most of which is also ancient).
Šipka is a cave located near Štramberk, Moravian-Silesian Region, Czech Republic, 440 m above sea level.
Although the Human provenance of these teeth is contended, no evidence contradicting this claim has been put forward and it has gained some acceptance.
This helps in planning strategy since stratigraphy problems on rural sites are minimal as features often cut into the natural, minimizing issues of inter-cutting features.
Principle of the method ZooMS identifies species based on differences in the amino acid composition of the collagen protein.
Precursors and associated cultures The Natufian developed in the same region as the earlier Kebaran culture.
Natural actions resulting in sediment being deposited include alluvial (water-related) or aeolian (wind-related) natural processes.
See also Archaeological field survey Archaeological plan Archaeological record Archaeological section Excavation (archaeology) M.
In the process of recombining with a lattice ion, they lose energy and emit photons (light quanta), detectable in the laboratory.
The category of stone tools not only contains finished tools, but also cores (large chunks of rock from which pieces are broken off to make tools) and flakes (material that is wasted when making a tool).
Observe and verify the ink impression (estampage) emerging as white-colored letters (grooves of the characters) against the dark (black) background.
Well preserved in-situ sites of the time are exceedingly rare in Europe and very unusual within a British context.
Emmanuel de Rougé, who began studying Egyptian in 1839, was the first person to translate a full-length ancient Egyptian text; he published the first translations of Egyptian literary texts in 1856.
Middle to Upper Paleolithic transition The Uluzzian is one of several techno-complexes considered to be "transitional assemblages": Uluzzian, Châtelperronian, Szeletian, and Lincombian-Ranisian-Jerzmanowician.
Whether an effective picture of past human activity on a site can be truly estimated through this methods is widely debated.
Using the water dredge to directly suck sediments means that archaeological information on context and stratigraphy is not recorded.
In 1967 researchers described the teeth as of Neanderthal origin and assumed that the accompanying stone tools and shell bead ornaments were typical of a Neanderthal culture, that was subsequently termed the Uluzzi culture as it closely resembles the Châtelperronian.
Hilums differ in their positioning on the starch granule and this positioning can differ between taxa.
Additionally, it leaves microscopic traces on the bone surface, which appear very similar to use wear traces and could be an issue for use wear analysis.
The completed sequence shows that the Okladnikov 2 mtDNA is basal to that sequenced from Mezmaiskaya 1 from Mezmaiskaya Cave and is even closer to western Neanderthals than previously thought.
In the case of tobacco pipes, bore diameters are measured and then averaged and compared with a table of diameters to indicate a probable site date.
A strategy for sampling the contexts and features is formulated which may involve total excavation of each feature or only portions.
Concerns arise when actions taken to preserve the physical object may compromise the spiritual or cultural integrity of a given object.
This allowed entire archeological sites to be dated based on clay pipe stem fragments found at the site.
As for trade, evidence suggests both an increase in the mobility and range of groups as well as an increase in inter-group exchange.
The principle of MNI accounts for each possible individual human or animal as an individual unit in the most parsimonious way, meaning to count the lowest number of individuals in an archaeological site.
Another example is the Milwaukee Road "R08" nail, where the "R" is an unknown treatment or type of wood, and the numbers indicate the year it was installed.
With an approximate age of 46,000 years, human fossils consist of a pair of fragmented mandibles including at least one molar.
(For planning convention styles see archaeological plan) In reality the process is more complex and involves many more contexts for the series of features shown in the diagram.
Use Indian ink (usually black-colored) to smear the paper with the dabber, in order to get the impression of the surface.
It is named after Szeleta Cave in the Bükk Mountains in Hungary, though other prominent sites include Dzierżysław in Poland and Vedrovice V in Moravia.
It enables exploration and examination of context and large land areas, on a scale unparalleled by other archaeological methods.
Geometric networks Geometric networks are linear networks of objects that can be used to represent interconnected features, and to perform special spatial analysis on them.
The age of the fossil is consistent with the period of interbreeding between Neanderthals and modern humans.
Notable for its large-scale application of archaeological geophysics and the geophysical survey in conjunction with expansive test pits.
In his adulthood, however, Ötzi's bones suggest that he moved to the lower Vinschgau and Etsch valley.
Critical evaluation The destruction of the tooth is the first inconvenient of this technique especially in the fields of archaeology and paleontology where non-invasive techniques are preferred.
It was opened in 1890 and the first recreational visitors entered the cave in 1938, two years before it was renamed in honor of Bulgarian National Revival leader, teacher and revolutionary Bacho Kiro.
Early research in this area focused on short sequences of DNA from mitochondrial genes, but sequencing of whole genomes has become possible.
In general, greater probe spacings yield greater depth of investigation, but at the cost of sensitivity and spatial resolution.
Their simple actions during visitation, even just visiting a site can be harmful to it, even serving as an agent of deterioration on their own.
The theoretical point was that no one can be certain of strata by just digging down with no visible/tangible changes; the first trench should always be in spits, until sections are visible (comment posted to the Ausarch discussion list May 2008).
Best practice involves removing the spoil away from the excavation site by mechanical earth moving equipment, or the creation of barrow run fed spoil heaps.
The "Ahmarian" category had only been recognized since the 1980s, and was previously designated as "Phase II Upper Paleolithic" or "Ksar Akil Phase B".
Manufactured by the Marshalltown Company of Marshalltown, Iowa, the trowel was first introduced in the 1890s.
When the stimulus is removed, the protons precess at a rate that can be interpreted to determine the magnetic forces of the area.
Carpology pursues two objectives: to reconstruct the evolution of a certain plant species; and to recreate the landscape and, thus, its flora and fauna.
If the ancient magnetic field were oriented similarly to today's field (North Magnetic Pole near the North Rotational Pole), the strata would retain a normal polarity.
The addition of two such prisms to the ordinary microscope converted the instrument into a polarizing, or petrographic microscope.
References Edney, Matthew H "Bringing India to Hand: Mapping an Empire, Denying Space." In Felicity Nussbaum (ed.): The Global Eighteenth Century, pp 65-78 and 334–36.
Aerial survey systems typically include the following components: Flight navigation software to guide the pilot in flying the desired survey pattern.
As fills of a feature form stratigraphically, the direction off the horizontal by which they form may give us information.
Cut-mark piece considers are, when in doubt, detailed %NISPcut, the level of the complete NISP showing cut-marks NISPcut.
The aim of this interdisciplinary project was to raise awareness and educate the public about natural and archaeological heritage.
The culture was at one time known as the "Kenyan Capsian" because findings resemble those of the North African Capsian trans-Saharan culture.
The Red Lady of El Mirón is a skeleton belonging to a woman of Upper Paleolithic (Magdalenian) found at El Mirón Cave in eastern Cantabria, Spain.
An Upper Paleolithic specimen from Kotias Klde cave in the Caucasus (Caucasus_25,000BP) had around 24% Basal Eurasian and 76% Upper Paleolithic European ancestry.
Fluorine absorption dating is a method used to determine the amount of time an object has been underground.
Spoil management Effective management of spoil is necessary because its volume is in general three times that which it was before excavation.
The matrix thus demonstrates the temporal relationship between any two units of archaeological stratification.
Furthermore, single context recording is not an excuse for not attempting to view the site as a whole during excavation.
Soon a series of incredible findings had been published, claiming authentic DNA could be extracted from specimens that were millions of years old, into the realms of what Lindahl (1993b) has labelled Antediluvian DNA.
Antelias Cave was a large cave located 2.5 km (1.6 mi) east of Antelias, 10 km (6.2 mi) northeast of Beirut close to the wadi of Ksar Akil.
This intensive process can promote a more considered assessment as every feature is treated individually.
Different materials have different albedos with regard to both absorption and reflection of incoming light and thus vary in their ability to create contrast, which may either increase or obscure the shadows.
A representative procedure is listed below: Soak a brush in water Clean the surface of the stone (that holds the inscription) using the brush.
Methodology Wiggle matching may be used as a complement to ordinary radiocarbon dating in some situations where the latter yields several alternatives.
Typically, these surveys were conducted in the pre-colonial Era, as part of the Age of European Enlightenment to study territories before colonization.
These teeth, dated to 43,000–45,000 BP, are the oldest currently-known remains of modern humans in Europe.
Variations of polish type are formed depending on how a tool edge is used functionally, on the type(s) of material, and duration of use.
She subsequently travelled to Malta, where her father was working as the Head of War Hospitals, and began to take an interest in the local antiquities.
Gallery See also Franco-Cantabrian region Gravettian Last Glacial Maximum References External links Clovis and Solutrean: Is There a Common Thread?
Wall maps and other graphics can be generated, allowing the viewer to visualize and thereby understand the results of analyses or simulations of potential events.
It was created because of artifacts in Mayan sites that had been recovered in the 1940s without stratigraphic context.
the method does not tell whether the first object in the sequence is the oldest or the youngest object.
This method is useful for the regression of maps that differ in format, for example, raster images of early maps and vector representations of modern maps.
Cutting is the reason why not all past activity on a site leaves traces of its existence in the sequence.
The use of Secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) in the measurement of obsidian hydration dating was introduced by two independent research teams in 2002.
See also List of Orientalist artists Orientalism Orientalism in early modern France Oriental studies References Further reading Georges Perrot and Charles Chipiez, A History of Art in Chaldæa & Assyria, v.
There is presently no evidence to show that Oldowan tools were the sole creation of members of the Homo line or that the ability to produce them was a special characteristic of only our ancestors.
Within the 30-foot terrace, the implements were originally thought to be early Mousterian, but were later reclassified.
Alternatively, Mesolithic and Neolithic Iranians derive most of their ancestry from a deep West Eurasian source (WEC2; c.
In a genetic study published in Nature in May 2016, the remains of an Epigravettian male from Ripari Villabruna in Italy were examined.
The technological refinement of the Châtelperronian and neighbouring Uluzzian in Central-Southern Italy is often argued to be the product of cultural influence from H.
The archaeologist dislodges the material using a trowel, brush or by making a fanning motion with the hand to cause a current to dislodge sediment.
In 2011, a team of researchers led by Stefano Benazzi of the Department of Anthropology at the University of Vienna published a study in the journal Nature which concluded that the teeth are not of Neanderthal origin, but from an early Homo sapiens and date from 45,000 to 43,000 years BP.
However, the attribution of the entire Uluzzi technology to Anatomically Modern European Humans is more contentious.
Levallois cores are present, but they are poorly made and have not received the careful attention that the Halfa cores have.
In archaeology, a type site (American English) or type-site (British English) is the site used to define a particular archaeological culture or other typological unit, which is often named after it.
When long-lived tree species, such as oak and juniper, are used, however, there is a particular danger of encountering the "old wood" problem.
Despite these earlier forays, the chief pioneer and populariser of varve research was Gerard De Geer.
For example, cultures may be named after pottery types such as Linear Pottery culture or Funnelbeaker culture.
Types of relationship Terminology in archaeology is not definitive but the following are typical uses of terms: Cuts: A context is said to cut another context if the former's creation removed a part of the latter.
Relation to radiocarbon dating Thermoluminescence dating is used for material where radiocarbon dating is not available, like sediments.
It is a powerful tool for understanding surface characteristics and elemental makeup in a wide range of samples.
Villalba-Mouco et al examined the remains of two males of the Azilian culture buried at the Late Upper Paleolithic site of Balma de Guilanyà, Catalonia, Spain c.
The vascular cambium ring is active during growing season and produces a new layer of xylem tissue or growth ring every year.
A recent article by Lycett and Eren (2013) statistically shows the efficiency of the Levallois technique which at times has been called into question.
Dirk Albert Hooijer studied the fauna from the cave and found Dama and Capra to have been predominant.
It was also used to disprove the validity of the Calaveras Skull, the first use of fluorine dating on human bone.
Where previously prehistory had been considered particularly French or European, Garrod expanded the subject to a global scale.
Both animal and human figures strive for realism, a rarity in Paleolithic art that reinforces the unique value of the site.
Comparing maps of an area compiled in different periods can help reconstruct the chronology of events which have altered the natural or built environment.
If the excavation is related to development, the impact assessment may stipulate excavation will cease at a certain depth, because the nature of the development will not disturb remains below a certain level.
Trend surface analysis, also known as trend surface mapping, is a mathematical technique used in archaeology and environmental sciences such as geology and soil science.
They were found to be carrying the paternal haplogroups I and C1a1a, and the maternal haplogroups U5b2a and U2'3'4'7'8'9.
The mission which involved the excavation of the palace of the Assyrian King Sargon II in Khorsabad (formerly Nineveh), would become the first systematic excavation of the site.
The scar created by the removal of the preceding flake would provide a striking platform for the removal of the next.
Terminology The Azilian was named by Édouard Piette, who excavated the Mas d'Azil type-site in 1887.
The cultural significance of these geoglyphs for their creators remains unclear, despite many hypotheses.
The FD equations are based on a number of assumptions about the behavior of water as it diffused into the glass and characteristic points of the SIMS H+ diffusion profile.
The discoverers concluded that: The overall shape and discrete morphological features of the Manot 1 calvaria demonstrate that this partial skull is unequivocally modern.
Metabolites Metabolites are small organic molecules usually involved in metabolism either as a substrate or product.
aDNA Enrichment As aDNA may contain bacterial DNA or other microorganisms, the process requires enrichment.
Partage, from the French word "partager" meaning "to share," was a system put in place to divide up ownership of excavated artifacts during the early part of the 20th century.
The rapid formation and short period of usage of a nest, and the incorporation of a variety of palaeoecological indicators, makes each mud-wasp nest a ‘snapshot’ of its late Quaternary environment." The most widely-used OSL method is called single-aliquot regeneration (SAR).
He was also required to make casts and stampings of inscriptions, using the new and still secret procedure developed by Lattin de Laval.
Examples of aerial survey sensors Vexcel UltraCam today consists of four photogrammetric nadir and oblique cameras (Eagle, Falcon, Osprey, Condor) and their calibrations.
This comparison technique, when done microscopically allows for the specific taxa identification of starch grains found on specific artifacts, such as ground stone tools, within soils, through dental calculus, or found in reference to ceramic vessels.
Magnifications of between x10 and x50 are sufficient to locate target residues, describe features and confirm internal structures of the identified residues.
In the UK the results of the trial trenching will be used to inform the decision on the need for any further archaeological work to be undertaken prior to development.
Attempts to find a meaning for their iconography have not got very far, although "the repeated combinations of motifs does seem to some extent to be ordered, which may suggest a simple syntax".
This is because the contexts representing the fills have been omitted for simplicity and the matrix shown is more akin to a Carver matrix (Not to be confused with the military term also named CARVER matrix).
A cut has zero thickness and no material properties of its own and is defined by the limits of other contexts.
Researchers suggested that this cave would have served better for human use than the actual Okladnikov Cave, although they found no traces of human occupation.
Description The site consists of a large two level cave with the entrance on the upper level of the western face of an Eifelian limestone cliff and a large terrace which forms a rock shelter of 50 m (160 ft) width and 5 m (16 ft) depth.
Chronology, major sites and distribution The technocomplex is named after findings in Kents Cavern, which is situated on Lincombe Hill, Torquay (Devon, England), the cave of Ilsenhöhle in Ranis (Thuringia, Germany), and Nietopierzowa cave in Jerzmanowice (Kraków County, Poland).
In the hands of a trained archaeologist, the water dredge performs the same function as a wheelbarrow on land.
This is because the relationships across the section have been destroyed by the cutting of construction cut 5 and even if it is likely that layers 1 and 4 are probably the same deposit the information can not be guaranteed if the only information we had was this section.
2024 argues that the Basal Eurasian lineage diverged from other Eurasians soon after the Out-of-Africa migration, and subsequently became isolated, until it started to mix with other populations in the Middle East since around 25,000 years ago.
This archive of women's clothing and accessories, from all social classes, is a resource for courses in costume design, history, material culture, and literary history and curatorial practices.
As Basal Eurasians had low levels of Neanderthal ancestry, genetic and archaeological evidence for interactions between modern humans and Neanderthals may allow certain areas, such as the Levant, to be ruled out as possible sources for Basal Eurasians.
Sampling strategy There is some argument over the sampling strategy to be employed in trial trenching, especially in evaluating sites that are intended for development.
Due to these disagreements, there is now a more precise set of criteria that outlines Levallois technology from a geometric standpoint.
laid the groundwork for the infrared stimulated luminescence (IRSL) dating of potassium feldspars in 1988.
The importance of the site was recognised following photographs taken by Kenneth St Joseph in 1959 (published in 1964).
Whether these early humans were in fact Homo sapiens or Neanderthals was disputed until morphological analysis of a tooth and mitochondrial DNA of bone fragments established that remains were those of Homo sapiens.
She was based at the RAF Medmenham photographic interpretation unit as a section officer (equivalent in rank to flying officer).
This act allowed for federal protection of sites from looting but failed to protect native peoples from having their land and ancestral objects seized.
Despite its advanced state of disrepair, the wreck is still complete with its cargo and a significant quantity of pottery, some of which shows signs of deformation by heat.
The Châtelperronian is a proposed industry of the Upper Palaeolithic, the existence of which is debated.
The contexts were labeled in chronological order by numbers 01 to 60, the types are labeled in the form T00001 to T00050.
The cave is one of several Paleolithic sites located in the Anuy Basin, along with Denisova Cave, Ust-Karakol, Kamminaya Cave, Isrkra Cave, Karama and Anuy I-III.
Flinders Petrie, the younger contemporary of archaeologist Augustus Pitt Rivers, was meticulous in his excavations and recorded every artifact and detail on site.
It is of even more vital importance when excavating such sites to compile the matrix as the excavation progresses.
They consisted of a mixture of ancestry between people from the preceding Magdalenian culture, as well as Villabruna/Western Hunter-Gatherer cluster, which shares affinities to people from the Middle East and Caucasus.
By their nature, crop marks are visible only seasonally and may not be visible at all except in exceptionally wet or dry years.
Unlike other coinages by Piette, the name was generally accepted, indeed in the early 20th century used for much greater areas than it is today.
Neighbours The Azilian culture coexisted with similar early Mesolithic European cultures, such as the Federmesser in northern Europe, the Tjongerian in the Low Countries, the Romanellian culture of Italy, the Creswellian in Britain and the Clisurian in Romania (in a process called azilianization).
Satellite archaeology is a non-invasive method for mapping and monitoring potential archaeological sites in an ever changing world that faces issues such as urbanization, looting, and groundwater pollution that could pose threats to such sites.
So, if a similar style of pottery was found at a different site, they must be from around the same time period.
In archaeology a fill is the material that has accumulated or has been deposited into a cut feature such as ditch or pit of some kind of a later date than the feature itself.
Perennial herb species belonging to the dicotyledon group (also known as perennial forbs) are characterized by secondary growth, which shows as a new growth ring added each year to persistent roots.
de and Garrod D., 1949, "Les fragments de bas-reliefs découverts dans le gisement magdalénien ancien d’Angles-sur-l’Anglin (Vienne)", C.-R.
Around 19% ancestry of the GoyetQ116-1 individual is derived from a Bacho Kiro IUP-like source, while up to 39% ancestry of the Tianyuan man is derived from an IUP-affiliated source distantly related to the Bacho Kiro IUP remains, explaining the unusual affinity between GoyetQ116-1 and Tianyuan.
Formation Varves form in a variety of marine and lacustrine depositional environments from seasonal variation in clastic, biological, and chemical sedimentary processes.
These are the main type of Azilian art, showing a great reduction in scale and complexity from the Magdalenian Art of the Upper Palaeolithic.
A team including adventurer Ranulph Fiennes, archaeologist Juris Zarins, filmmaker Nicholas Clapp, and lawyer George Hedges, scouted the area on several trips, and stopped at a water well called Ash Shisar.
GNSS, combining GPS and an inertial measurement unit (IMU) to provide accurate position and orientation data.
Separation of components Separation of the ingredients of a crushed rock powder to obtain pure samples for analysis is a common approach.
Culture The Uluzzians made and used beads from shells of marine molluscs such as scaphopods, snails (Columbella rustica, Cyclope neritea), and other species.
and Fuentes O., 2003, "Le 'sorcier' du Roc-aux-Sorciers à Angles-sur-l'Anglin (Vienne, France) : nouveaux éléments d'analyse", Antiquités Nationales, n° 35, pp.
The term derives from similar ones in geology, horizon or marker horizon, but where these have natural causes, archaeological horizons are caused by humans.
Physics then dictates a circular or oval end pattern, similar to the handaxe, for a leftover core after flake production.
See also Fernand Courby, a French archaeologist Collection of over 10,000 estampages from Greece and Middle East at Maison de l'Orient et de la Méditerranée, Lyon, France Rubbing (art) == References ==
He put forward his polemical ideas in A Study of Archaeology, which served as a critique of culture-historical archaeology and put forward his prescription of a conjunctive archaeology.
Andrew Millard refers to wiggle matching as a way of dealing with the flat portion of the carbon-14 calibration graph that is known as the Hallstatt plateau, named after the Hallstatt culture period in central Europe that it coincides with.
In the periodization of pre-Columbian Peru and the Central Andes, there are three Horizon periods with two Intermediate periods between them.
The material culture associated with archaeological excavations and the scholarly records in academic journals are the physical embodiment of the archaeological record.
A slice of rock was affixed to a microscope slide and then ground so thin that light could be transmitted through mineral grains that otherwise appeared opaque.
Appearance The most obvious and occurring trace of soil marks is a difference in color relative to the rest of soil.
Harris matrices play an invaluable role in the articulation of sequence and provide the building blocks from which higher order units of stratigraphically related events can be constructed.
As more evidence of the predynastic period is uncovered, this dating method in relation to the pottery on site aids in determining the relative date of the site.
A few days later, on the 7th of December 2022, a study in Nature reported that two-million year old genetic material was found in Greenland, and is currently considered the oldest DNA discovered so far.
The Micro-Mousterian or Micromousterian is a name given by Alfred Rust and Henri Fleisch to a Palaeolithic industry of small stone tools.
The technique involves hitting a block of wood laid over the ground surface with a weighty hammer and assessing the sound given out.
Stacked together with other strata, individual stratum can form composite stratigraphic units that can extend over hundreds of thousands of square kilometers of the Earth's surface.
However, since different sites have different levels of fluorine in the groundwater, fluorine absorption dating can only be used to determine the relative age of bones from the same site.
The concept derives from the geological use of the idea that sedimentation takes place according to uniform principles.
When viewed under light microscopy, a specific type of cementum (Acellular Extrinsic Fibers Cementum - AEFC) surrounding the root appears as layers of alternating dark and light bands.
A stone foundation might impede the flow of electricity, while the organic deposits within a midden might conduct electricity more easily than surrounding soils.
In doing so, several approximately 1 m2 (11 ft2) test excavations are carried out over the area, as far as possible down to the 'natural soil' level.
The cave was disturbed by looters during the period between the two waves of excavations, damaging the layers corresponding to the Upper Palaeolithic; because of this, the cave entrance is covered by a gate and is closed to the public.
Lawrence Keeley, following in the footsteps of Sergei Semenov, conducted microscopic studies (with a high-powered optical microscope) on the edges of tools manufactured de novo and used for the originally speculative purposes described above.
When a number of objects are recovered from one deposit, the terminus post quem is based on the dating from the 'youngest' find.
g., a shipwreck and giving misleading dates must be considered.) Organic samples which are not derived from the same part of an organism, may show dating variations which blur and obscure the interpretation being attempted.
Next meeting with motto "Revealing the Past, Enriching the Present and Shaping the Future Languages in 2021 was transferred to the Siberian Federal University in Krasnoyarsk.
Finally, a key bed, also called a marker bed, is a well-defined, easily identifiable stratum or body of strata that has sufficiently distinctive characteristics, such as lithology or fossil content, to be recognized and correlated during geologic field or subsurface mapping.
The following year she was asked urgently to excavate at Ras El Kelb, as a significant cave had been disturbed by road and rail construction.
Atkinson (best known for excavating Stonehenge), "unequivocally" recommended the use of a trowel for archaeology; during the postwar era, WHS and a competing brand from Bowden were predominant.
Created and co-produced by Nautilus Productions and Marine Grafics, this project enabled students to talk to scientists and learn about methods and technologies utilized by the underwater archaeology team.
As DNA degrades over time, the nucleotides that make up the DNA may change, especially at the ends of the DNA molecules.
Under partage, foreign-led excavation teams provided the expertise and material means to lead excavations and in return were allowed to share the finds with the local government's archaeological museums.
Sampling Sampling a sediment core or stratigraphic profile to gather information about an environment requires a detailed understanding of the way the sediments were formed.
Examples of phases that would have no associated occupation surfaces are phases of a site that have been horizontally truncated by later phases and only elements surviving of the truncated phase are those that were below ground level and the subsequent truncation at that time.
Cyclododecane is also used as a volatile binding medium, a temporary binder for sealing and conservation of friable and structurally weak materials, e.g.
Data collection with proton precession instruments was slow, making high sample density surveys impracticable.
For this reason, it is often used where preservation (rather than excavation) is the goal, and to avoid disturbance of culturally sensitive sites such as cemeteries.
Of the many rhythmites in the geological record, varves are one of the most important and illuminating in studies of past climate change.
The 15,000 year old GoyetQ2 individual from Goyet Caves is often used as a proxy for Magdalenian ancestry.
A burnt layer or burned layer in archaeology is a stratum of earth that was formed primarily by the burning of objects or buildings.
After recovering from his illness, Thomas rejoined the archaeological team for the Assyrian excavation in 1852.
A water eductor or water dredge is an eductor-jet pump-based tool used by underwater archaeologists to remove sediments from an underwater archaeological site.
The depth of water at a site can be determined from charts or by using the depth sounding sonar equipment that is standard equipment on ships.
The usefulness of cropmarks to archaeologists has largely been a fruit of inspection from aircraft, but the possibility was suggested by Rev.
Ties are no longer marked in this manner in North American practice, and the nails are now sought after by railroadiana collectors.
it is common practice to have special sheets available to record contexts denoted by; masonry, timber and skeletons listing the many variables that are of interest to the archaeologists both onsite and post excavation.
This introduced a "new and discrete usage of the term which was significantly different from current anthropological usage." His definition, in particular, was purely a classifying device to order the archaeological data.
The lithic culture was initially referred to as the Altai Mousterian; nowadays, the culture is more commonly referred to as the Sibiryachikha culture or the Sibiryachikha variant.
This evidence challenges the prevailing notion of solely a high reliance on animal proteins in pre-agricultural human societies.
Trial trenching is a rapid and relatively inexpensive method of archaeological evaluation used to estimate the archaeological potential of a site.
Particularly effective crops that exhibit differential growth include cereal crops, peas, and potatoes.
Cyclododecane is also an intermediate in production of flame retardants, detergents, and other chemicals.
An annual layer can be highly visible because the particles washed into the layer in the spring when there is greater flow strength are much coarser than those deposited later in the year.
Where these highly magnetic materials do not occur, it is often possible to detect very subtle anomalies caused by disturbed soils or decayed organic materials.
It is both intellectually and physically difficult to identify archaeological features in narrow foundation trenches and the potential delay to a project can also be difficult for a developer to incorporate into a development programme.
These combined features indicate that it shares a number of features between the most recent African humans and those of European from the Upper Paleolithic period.
Hill figures, turf mazes and the stone-lined labyrinths of Scandinavia, Iceland, Lappland and the former Soviet Union are types of geoglyphs.
Limitations Features not appearing on one map but shown on another do not necessarily indicate an actual difference, due to purpose, detail, or accuracy; for example, comparing cadastral and topographic maps.
Nearby electron/hole trapping centres, in particular in feldspars, may suffer from localised tunnelling, which leads to so-called athermal fading of the signal of interest over time.
Carpet the stone surface using a large piece of wet paper (or layers of paper) Pat the wet paper(s) gently, using a dabber made of soft material.
Gnaw-marks on the leg bone (tibia) shows that a carnivore (estimated to be about the size of a dog or wolf) bit the bone when the flesh had decomposed.
This group, who have not yet been sampled from ancient remains, are thought to have diverged from all non-African populations c.
Cementochronology is a subdiscipline of the field of study called skeletochronology which is a subdiscipline of the broader field called sclerochronology.
This process of the precipitation and deposition of dead micro-organisms out of the water column is restricted to warm months when productivity (ecology) is high.
Third, supplemental components must be limited to those necessary for stability (that is, substitute components may never lie at the top), and must be recognizable as replacement materials.
Depending on the local geology, the soil marks can show up as dark against a light background or vice versa.
They also found remains of "fallow deer, red deer, mountain gazelle, horse, aurochs, hyena, and bear".
Americas In the archaeology of the Americas "Horizon" terminology, used as proper names, has become used for schemes of periodization of major periods.
Basal Eurasians may have originated in a region stretching from North Africa to the Middle East, before admixing with West-Eurasian populations.
These locations range from one to several areas at a time during a project and can be conducted over a few weeks to several years.
"Taxon A is more numerous than Taxon B." NISP is a basic technique that is widely used for estimating the relative abundance of specimens in a collection.
So, the projectile points could be sorted by weight, height, color, material, or however the archaeologists prefers.
This aids in interpreting the spatial context of sites, communicating findings to stakeholders, and engaging the public with archaeological research.
Ancient pathogen DNA has been successfully retrieved from samples dating to more than 5,000 years old in humans and as long as 17,000 years ago in other species.
He was frustrated by the focus of his contemporaries on typologies, chronological reconstructions, and other elements of archaeology that he saw as formalist and restricting.
Containing cores, choppers, flake, chunks, and hammer stones made predominately of quartz, this site displayed the ability of early toolmakers to work skillfully with fragile stones.
In archaeology, seriation is a relative dating method in which assemblages or artifacts from numerous sites in the same culture are placed in chronological order.
After the preparation of the sample is complete, it is transferred to a microbalance chamber and exposed to water vapour at a controlled temperature (identical to the first ELT) and relative humidity to determine the kinetics of the mass gain through recombination with water.
Estampage or stamping, is a term commonly used in epigraphy to obtain the exact replica of an inscription that cannot be transported.
Archaeologists think the Azilian represents the tail end of the Magdalenian as the warming climate brought about changes in human behaviour in the area.
The ITRDB was initially established by Hal Fritts through the Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research at the University of Arizona, with a grant from the US National Science Foundation, following the First International Workshop on Dendrochronology in 1974.
Mutual Climatic Range (MCR) is a method of determining the past climate at an archaeological site by examining the tolerances of a range of species found there.
mtDNA sequencing confirmed that both fragments most likely belonged the same individual, dubbed Okladnikov 2.
An early deposit model of the city of York was produced in the early 1990s and has been used to inform archaeological decisions in the city since.
As the glaciers retreated, sites increasingly reach into the slopes of the Cantabrian Mountains as high as 1,000 metres above sea level, though presumably the higher ones were only occupied in the summers.
Usage Within India, estampages have been made for numerous items and inscriptions of archaeological significance.
It is considered one of two major transitional archaeological industries in east-central Europe, along with the Bohunician.
Cropmarks or crop marks are a means through which sub-surface archaeological, natural and recent features may be visible from the air or a vantage point on higher ground or a temporary platform.
A sondage is an archaeological process to clarify stratigraphic sequences during preliminary investigations of the terrain prior to an archaeological dig.
If there exists no prior reason to believe that two samples are truly of the same age, and even if their ages are statistically indistinguishable, they are as likely to be as far apart in true age as the measured difference between them as they are to be of the same age.
They noted that the "brown layer" and especially the "pebble layer" were very rich in paleontological and archaeological material.
See also Archaeological association Archaeological context Archaeological phase – Process to reveal former land usePages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Excavation Harris matrix Law of superposition – Law stating that newer strata stack above older ones == References ==
The Szeleta Culture, or Szeletian, is a transitional archaeological culture between the Middle Paleolithic and the Upper Palaeolithic, found in Austria, Moravia, northern Hungary, and southern Poland.
The results of surveying can be extrapolated between known geographical points and used to estimate the impact of certain types of development.
Though some situations, like thin porous bones might more rapidly change the dating created by multiple methods.
vertical photography Aerial photographs can be captured from different angles, each offering distinct advantages for archaeological investigation: Oblique photography: Taken at an angle, oblique photographs provide a more familiar perspective, similar to what the human eye would see.
The degradation of the EPS and formation of the Ca-rich film is suggested to aid in the precipitation of calcium carbonate and further the process of biomineralization.
Godefroy Zumoffen made an excavation in 1893, finding an Aurignacian industry amongst large quantities of bones and flints.
In archaeological illustration, they are typically used to record the profile of pots, and are thus named pottery gauges; but in ceramics, a pottery gauge is a template used in making pots.
Dating of artefacts using accelerator mass spectrometry is the gold standard dating method of today; charcoal-sourced dates are seen as unreliable.
Similarly, species that have left the region were found, such as the panther, dhole, Arctic fox, and reindeer in layer V, as well as the wolverine and collared lemming in layer VI.
Small finds are usually treated differently in the recording system; often they are recorded on plan rather than being attributed to a single context like other generic finds.
269) list three conditions that must be satisfied to obtain a chronological seriation result: Regional variation must be kept to a minimum, i.e.
They were found at the type site of Brno-Bohunice, Stránská skála (Moravia), Bacho Kiro and Temnata Cave (Bulgaria), Dzierzyslaw (Poland), and others.
orthomosaic A high-resolution map created by orthophotos, usually via drones is termed as an orthomosaic.
The traits or attributes included in the seriation must depend on cultural aspects (rather than on function).
Description A distinctive feature of the LRJ complex is blades with "leaf points", which are unifacially (one-side) or bifacially (both-sides) worked, which are thought to have been used as spear heads.
0.50 m or less) test holes, usually dug out by a shovel (hence the name) in order to determine whether the soil contains any cultural remains that are not visible on the surface.
The color of the soil is very important in determining whether or not organic or burnt deposits happened over the soil, producing a black or red colored soil.
(1991): Archaeology in Eastern Africa: An Overview of Current Chronological Issues, The Journal of African History 32 (2) See also Enkapune Ya Muto
It cannot give how old a bone actually is, only whether it is younger, older, or the same age as other bones from the same site.
South Asia Kot Diji (Pre-Indus civilization, Pakistan) Harappa (Indus civilization, Punjab, northeast Pakistan) == References ==
Contextual seriation is often used for reconstructing the chronological sequence of graves as only the presence or absence of a design style or type is important.
Trypsin cleaves the protein after every arginine or lysine amino acid in its sequence, resulting in peptide fragments of predictable masses.
Three subphases, the Early Epigravettian (20,000 to 16,000 BP), the Evolved Epigravettian (16,000 to 14,000 BP) and the Final Epigravettian (14,000 to 8,000 BP), have been established, that were further subdivided and reclassified.
The end product of a commissioned survey would usually be a report or book in a European language, which could form a basis for law making by colonial powers.
In 1962, together with Harrison, they became part of Spear & Jackson, who in 1967 also acquired Edward Elwell Ltd, all the companies coming together as parts of S&J by 1972.
Archaeologists usually describe two regional variants: the western Gravettian, known mainly from cave sites in France, Spain and Britain, and the eastern Gravettian in Central Europe and Russia.
See also List of caves in Switzerland Mousterian Middle Paleolithic Paleolithic in Switzerland References External links Media related to Grotte de Cotencher at Wikimedia Commons
In his book Artifacts and the American Past, Schlereth defines material culture study as an attempt to explain why things were made, why they took the forms they did, and what social, functional, aesthetic, or symbolic needs they serve.
265–270 External links Quotations related to Dorothy Garrod at Wikiquote The Dorothy Garrod photographic archive at the Pitt Rivers Museum in Oxford Dorothy Garrod (1892–1968): Eine Archäologin erobert die Eliteuniversität Cambridge Archived 22 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine (in German)
The terminology of these larger clusters varies depending on practitioner, but the terms interface, sub-group, group and land use are common.
The remains of marmot, gray wolf, red fox, bear, horse, cave hyena, woolly rhinoceros, reindeer, steppe bison, red deer, Siberian ibex and argali sheep were commonly found inside the cave, with a heavy presence of cave hyena and woolly rhinoceros remains.
An analysis of Epigravettian producing individuals in Italy indicates that they were not closely related to earlier Gravettian-producing inhabitants of the peninsula, and instead belong to the Villabruna genetic cluster.
With this information available, archaeologists can expand their research and add more to what has already been found.
The special nature of the find is dictated by research agendas and the information the artifact can provide.
(1998) National Register Eligibility Assessment of Four Sites on Upper Roubidoux Creek (23PU483, 23PU458, 23PU354, 23PU264), Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri.
1863 (now in the Louvre, Paris) Propylées de l'Acropole de'Athènes, 1859 (Exhibited at the Salon in 1859) Sentinelle devant les ruines de Ninive [Sentinel before the ruins of Nineveh], (Private collection) Les Pecheurs, n.d.
Features are distinguished from artifacts in that they cannot be separated from their location without changing their form.
The German inventor Joseph Gaertner, an 18th-century doctor and botanist, dedicated his life to the study of natural history.
Industries are usually named after a type site where these characteristics were first observed (e.g.
The starch grain is specifically important for study due to the fact that it is commonly found in most plants, its long-lasting nature, as well as the diverse forms and structures that they can take based on which taxa they belong to.
Garrod also made changes to the structure of archaeology studies, so turning Cambridge into the first British university to offer undergraduate courses in prehistoric archaeology.
Several other people, such as Norman Hammond, looked to develop similar systems in the 1980s and 1990s.
isocentre the point on the aerial photograph in which the bisector of the angle of tilt meets the photograph.
The French paleoanthropologist Ludovic Slimak argues that Châtelperronian is a Homo sapiens industry transitional between the Neronian and Proto-Auragnacian.
Due to its relatively slow evaporation in comparison with other volatile binding mediums the layer can last for several weeks.
the point on the aerial photograph where a plumbline dropped from the front nodal point pierces the photograph.
Cuts are seen in the record by virtue of the difference between the material it was cut through and the material that back-fills it.
The interval at which the STPs are placed varies considerably and, in CRM at least, is sometimes prescribed by state regulations (in the U.S.) or is determined by the conditions in the field.
However, only beds that are distinctive enough to be useful for stratigraphic correlation and geological mapping are customarily given formal names and considered formal lithostratigraphic units.
Lidar-derived products can be easily integrated into a Geographic Information System (GIS) for analysis and interpretation.
Later, Iosif Lazardis documented that the Natufians had a total of 9.1% non-Eurasian ancestry, and the explanation by the geneticist was because of their partial descent from the Paleolithic Iberomaurusians, whose contributions were estimated at 22% in Natufians.
Below: A context is said to be below another context if it was created earlier and in general is vertically below the other context but not necessarily in physical contact.
Findings After eight summers of digging, about 200 artifacts, some 600 pieces of strike waste, scrapers and bolt stone, and heated stones from an open fire have been found.
Luis Siret had already noticed in Southeastern Spain a Palaeolithic industry that included a microlithic toolkit: small and narrow instruments, variously retouched and with these, colouring substances, grinding tools, and hammerstones.
Researchers need to check if stumps from a Mesolithic or Palaeolithic submerged forest are to be found in the area.
References Further reading Michel Toussaint, Stéphane Pirson, "Neandertal Studies in Belgium: 2000-2005", Periodicum biologorum, Vol.108 No.3 October 2006.
They can then study the trace element composition of obsidian outcrops to determine the original source of the raw material used to make the artifact.
The flux of ionizing radiation—both from cosmic radiation and from natural radioactivity—excites electrons from atoms in the crystal lattice into the conduction band where they can move freely.
That artefacts such as pottery very often survive only in fragments makes precise knowledge of morphology even more necessary, as it is often necessary to identify and date a piece of pottery from only a few sherds.
Populations related to these earlier individuals did not contribute detectable ancestry to later European populations.
The paleoethnobotanist must use discretion when counting in order to properly account for the presence of unicellular and multicellular phytoliths.
STPs will often be laid out over the project area in a grid-like fashion or in a consistently spaced line, creating a fairly systematic survey.
The finds include the in-situ remains of at least nine woolly mammoths (Mammuthus primigenius), associated with Mousterian stone tools and debitage.
In 2014, the autosomal DNA of a male infant (Anzick-1) from a 12,500-year-old deposit in Montana was sequenced.
The multi period site at Mucking was discovered as a result of aerial photographs showing cropmarks and soil marks.
Electrical resistance meters can be thought of as similar to the Ohmmeters used to test electrical circuits.
bl/wh External links Media related to Archaeology at Wikimedia Commons Adrian Chadwick - Archaeology at the Edge of Chaos: Further Towards Reflexive Excavation Methodologies
Current Archaeology summed up the choices: There are really only two contenders on the single-forged blade market, WHS (UK) and Marshalltown (US).
A simplified description of phase would be that "a phase is a view of a given archaeological site as it would have been at time X".
Since the number that follows is the number of the site within an area, assigned when the site is discovered, the whole number really only narrows the area to approximately a 16 km square.
Radiocarbon dated to over 43,000 years ago, they currently represent the oldest known ornaments in Europe.
Some examples of artifacts classified as small finds include items of personal adornment, clothing, health, or hygiene, hand tools or items used for food preparation, recreation, or crafts like needlework; and personal items like smoking pipes, children's toys, or coins.
Numerous other false readings of bisections are possible to the unwary, this is why excavation "in plan" is now preferred.
Dorothy Annie Elizabeth Garrod, CBE, FBA (5 May 1892 – 18 December 1968) was an English archaeologist who specialised in the Palaeolithic period.
Closer analysis revealed that the exterior of the brick contained vitrified elements, indicating that it had been exposed to extreme heat since the original time of firing.
External links Media related to Micoquien at Wikimedia Commons (in German) Geröllgeräte-Industrien (in German) Rosendahl, G.
The Harris matrix itself however serves to provide a check on observable quantifiable physical phenomena and relies on the excavator understanding which way in the sequence is 'up' and the ability of the excavator to excavate and record honestly, accurately and stratigraphically.
He also found remains of a human fetus, which was only published in 1957 by Henri Victor Vallois and assigned to the Neolithic period.
1, (trans: Walter Armstrong), 1884, Project Gutenberg edition, 2009, Online: François Pouillon, Dictionnaire des Orientalistes de Langue Française, KARTHALA, 2008 External links World Category:Thomas Felix http://worldcat.org/identities/viaf-47617178/
The difference between radiocarbon dating and OSL is that the former is used to date organic materials, while the latter is used to date minerals.
Geographical extent: In Italy: Apulia (the Grotta del Cavallo and the Uluzzo cave), Basilicata, Campania, Calabria, Tuscany, and Fumane (the northernmost point).
For instance, a buried stone wall can impact crop development above it by redirecting water away from the area and displacing the more fertile soil needed for healthy plant growth.
Another example is the rediscovery of the Roman city Altinum, a precursor to the city of Venice, from a combination of visible and near-infrared photos of the area taken during a drought in 2007, which stressed the maize and soy crops.
They diverged from other Eurasians after the Out-of-African migration and represent a sister lineage to other Eurasians.
The Baradostian culture was an Upper Paleolithic flint industry culture found in the Zagros region in the border-country between Iraq and Iran.
According to the archaeologist, the ochre painting and the limestone block were markers of her grave.
Combined with the decipherment of cuneiform at approximately the same time, their work opened up the once-inaccessible texts from the earliest stages of ancient history.
The villages of Jeba and Ljsim were destroyed in 1948 and most members of the Palestinian team could not be traced.
For this reason, it is thought likely that the Bohunician indicates the presence of anatomically modern humans, but this has not been corrobated by the discovery of any associated human remains.
This was one of the reasons why they proposed an adjustment which is called detrended correspondence analysis.
Also, the terms Archaeological sequence and Archaeological stratigraphy are closely related and somewhat interchangeable.
The resulting scatterplot showed the form of a horse-shoe where the graves were arranged on the curve according to their chronological order.
Archaeological illustration is a form of technical illustration that records material derived from an archaeological context graphically.
Digging a site "in phase" is considered good practice and can be thought of as the process of removing the deposits on site in the reverse order that they arrived.
It would be possible to reconstruct the Gourgion Tower in Gozo, Malta using anastylosis, since many of its decorated stones and inscriptions were retrieved following its destruction in 1943 by the United States, and are now in storage at Heritage Malta.
Note that the distances of the scores for adjacent contexts on the first axis vary: At the beginning and the end, the distances are extremely small, the largest distances in the centre is about 30 times as large as the smallest distance.
It was further developed by the Department of Urban Archaeology (Museum of London) from where it was then exported, in the mid-1980s by Pete Clarke to the Scottish Urban Archaeological Trust and Nick Pearson to the York Archaeological Trust.
Dating The site was dated to Marine Isotope Stage 3 using Optically Stimulated Luminescence dating of the sand from the two layers of deposits within the channel.
Counter-critics argue that, while this is a possibility, no archaeologist needs to be transfixed by the applied recording system if faced with a stratigraphic conundrum, and that deviation from a pure single context recording regime is not a sin.
Transformation Computer based geographical information systems facilitate the scaling, rotation, and translation of an entire map to fit over another.
Residual and intrusive finds One issue in using stratigraphic relationships is that the date of artifacts in a context does not represent the date of the context, but just the earliest date the context could be.
Is Jebel Irhoud telling us that this new technology is linked to the emergence of the hominin line that will lead to modern humans?
The microlaminations can be observed when varnish is shaved thin enough (5-10 μm) to see through with a light microscope.
The Mousterian largely defines the latter part of the Middle Paleolithic, the middle of the West Eurasian Old Stone Age.
In the case of dating megalithic tombs, indirect evidence for the age of the tomb must always be obtained, because stone (or the time of moving a stone) cannot be dated.
References https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxidizable_carbon_ratio_dating Published references Abbott, James T., Raymond Mauldin, Patience E.
Manot 1, at 55,000 years old, is the oldest fossil found in West Asia which post-dates the presumed recent out-of-Africa expansion, after about 70,000 years ago.
Sequence dating has been deemed an obsolete and inaccurate method of dating archaeological sites and artifacts, since archaeologists have discovered more precise methods of dating archaeological sites and artifacts.
Rentzel and his collaborators identified seven sediment layers, notably (from youngest to oldest): cryoclastic deposits from the Holocene (Layer I); two fine-textured post-glacial layers (II and III); an interpleniglacial pebble layer (V); a layer of reworked sediments from the Eemian (VI).
Once an archeologist can control for the geochemical signature of the obsidian (e.g., the "source") and temperature (usually approximated using an "effective hydration temperature" or EHT coefficient), he or she may be able to date the artifact using the obsidian hydration technique.
Bohunician assemblages are considered similar to Emiran and Ahmarian ones and Bohunician culture may be linked to them.
It is composed of bison, horses, wild goats, felines, and the headless and footless figures of women, of the type conventionally called Venuses.
Some railroads used "code nails" which means that the nail was used to mark something other than the date the tie was installed.
In 1929, Garrod was appointed to direct excavations at Wadi el-Mughara at Mount Carmel in Mandatory Palestine, as a joint project of the American School of Prehistoric Research and the British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem.
According to Doran and Hodson, "this superficially straightforward task has proved one of the most time consuming and contentious aspects of archaeological research".
This same study showed that EEFs harbour ancestry from a hypothetical non-African 'ghost' population which the authors name 'Basal Eurasians'.
The process of excavation destroys the context and requires the excavator to be able and willing to make informed (by experience and where necessary collaboration) decisions about which context or contexts lay at the top of the sequence.
In spite of that, he still managed to contribute twelve maps to the book of the expedition, Expedition Scientifique En Mésopotamie: Exécutée Par Ordre Du Gouvernement De 1851 À 1854 by Julius Oppert.
Characteristics The Azilian in Vasco-Cantabria occupied a similar region to the Magdalenian, and in very many cases the same sites; typically the Azilian remains are fewer, and rather simpler, than those from the Magdalenian occupation beneath, indicative of a smaller group of people.
keystone lintel See also Marriage stone Cornerstone References External links Scotland's Marriage and Date Stones The Societe-jersiaise An essay on datestones (mostly in London)
During various archaeological excavations of sediment deposits, Mousterian artefacts and a Neanderthal molar were discovered.
The technique was developed in the 1980s, and a newer one first published in 2009 which looks at geographical distribution is also sometimes called "mutual climatic range".
He subsequently studied art at Beaux-Arts where he was a pupil of Louis-Hippolyte Lebas who specialised in the history of architecture.
In addition to the first topography of the site, three carbon-14 datings were established from charcoal samples from the "brown layer" and the "pebble layer." The results indicate that the archaeological remains are at least 40,000 years (1,300,000 Ms) old.
A significant portion of the lithic assemblage consists of scrapers, reflecting a Mousterian dominated by scrapers, with discoid debitage and tools reminiscent of eastern Quina-type discoveries.
further argue that Levallois technology evolved independently in different populations and thus cannot be used as a reliable indicator of Paleolithic human population change and expansion.
The Horse, the Wheel, and Language: How Bronze-Age Riders from the Eurasian Steppes Shaped the Modern World.
For example, the Acheulean industry includes hand-axes, cleavers, scrapers and other tools with different forms, but which were all manufactured by the symmetrical reduction of a bifacial core producing large flakes.
In addition to seasonal variation of sedimentary processes and deposition, varve formation requires the absence of bioturbation.
Characteristics Radiocarbon dates suggest that this was one of the earliest Upper Paleolithic complexes, beginning perhaps as early as 36,000 BC.
This culture is known for the high percentage of burins and some of these are similar to the distinctive nosed profile of the Aurignacian burins.
Lithic remains Of the 600 m3 of sedimentary content in the cave, they excavated 300 m3, uncovering a total of 416 lithic remains, which represent the vast majority of the material found at the site since its discovery.
This method requires DNA denaturation and then inserts overlapping tiled probes along target regions.
It is thought to be ancestral to the modern Western Eurasian lineages that began to develop during the Upper Paleolithic.
The end of the Khormusan industry came around 18,000 BP, with the appearance of other cultures in the region, including the Gemaian.
It was preceded by the Middle Paleolithic Mousterian culture, directly overlying it without an intervening bladelet industry.
It has become a popular system of recording and planning being used in many countries in Europe and in Lebanon, it is especially suited to the complexities of deep, typically urban, archaeology.
As not all objects absorb fluorine at the same rate, the accuracy of fluorine dating is somewhat limited.
For example, consider the first column: context 3 contains the design styles blackrim, bottle, and handle.
His skills as a draftsman led him to work as project architect on several major archaeological excavations in Mesopotamia and Assyria during the early 1850s.
'Strip' maps, or traverse surveys, which record features in a linear path can complicate the spatial interpolation required to match a planar format.
Large thin spearheads; scrapers with edge not on the side but on the end; flint knives and saws, but all still chipped, not ground or polished; long spear-points, with tang and shoulder on one side only, are also characteristic implements of this industry.
Syntheses by Jean-Marie Le Tensorer and Sébastien Bernard-Guelle suggest that the site primarily served as a temporary refuge, consistent with the possibility of a seasonally mobile Jura population.
For example, the date being measured may be from heartwood, which is already many centuries old by the time the tree was felled.
When taken together and viewed on the main project website an image of a watch and chain inspired by John Harrison's marine chronometer H5 was created.
The atmospheric radiocarbon concentration has varied over time and thus radiocarbon dates need to be calibrated.
In 2006, the museum's director, Philipe de Montebello, agreed to return the Krater along with several other items to Italy.
Evolution The distinctive forms of the flakes were originally thought to indicate a wide-ranging Levallois culture resulting from the expansion of archaic Homo sapiens out of Africa.
Trace element geochemistry Trace element geochemistry studies the abundance of elements in geological materials that do not occur in large amounts.
While extraction and sequencing of DNA from the remains could potentially confirm that interbreeding was occurring at that time, the odds of doing so successfully are reduced by the region's warm climate, which speeds up DNA degradation.
scale ratio of the focal length of the camera objective and the distance of the exposure station from the ground.
The age-at-death of an individual is estimated by adding this count to the average age of tooth eruption.
Shadow marks will remain important—even if they are a relatively low technology—in the expanding toolbox of remote sensing archaeology.
Phase implies a nearly contemporaneous Archaeological horizon, representing "what you would see if you went back to time X".
found that populations with higher levels of Basal Eurasian ancestry have lower levels of Neanderthal ancestry, which suggests that Basal Eurasians had lower levels of Neanderthal ancestry compared with other non-Africans.
A method of ameliorating this problem is to date young growth, if available, for example hazel twigs.
Population A 2019 demographic analysis estimated a mean population of 1,500 persons (upper limit: 3,300; lower limit: 800) for western and central Europe during the Aurignacian period (~42,000 to 33,000 y cal BP).
In an article from the proceedings from Are We There Yet?, Alam references at least two instances where varying degrees of fantasy are credited for structural preservation.
Sections are used in conjunction with two-dimensional excavation by plan to determine the origin of archaeological remains.
azimuth the clockwise horizontal angle measured about the ground nadir point from the ground survey North meridian in the plane of photograph.
Above: A context is said to be above another if created later and, in general, vertically above the other context but not necessarily in physical contact.
Typical data collected includes aerial photography, Lidar, remote sensing (using various visible and invisible bands of the electromagnetic spectrum, such as infrared, gamma, or ultraviolet) and geophysical data (such as aeromagnetic surveys and gravity measurements).
The artefactual, faunal and environmental evidence were sealed within a Middle Devensian palaeochannel with a dark organic fill.
However, the association of the Châtelperronian culture with Homo neanderthalensis is subject of ongoing debate.
tilt the angle between the aerial camera and the horizontal axis perpendicular to the line of flight.
Comparisons showed strong affinities with DNA from Siberian sites, and virtually ruled out any close affinity of Anzick-1 with European sources.
Through fieldwork, the different applications and abilities of these satellite imagery techniques were revealed, highlighting the importance of using multiple methods of archaeological investigation together.
Under these conditions, the Altai-Sayan region provided the early hominin inhabitants with a very appealing environment.
Historical map regression The process is mainly used in research on the history of places, sometimes termed historic map regression.
The term "archaeological horizon" is sometimes, and somewhat incorrectly, used in place of the term layer or strata.
The first stage, disarticulation, occurs as the organism decays and the bones are no longer held together by the flesh and tendons of the organism.
Gravity: architectural stratigraphy left in situ is pulled down by gravity, in combination with human or natural intervention, while below-ground stratigraphy is created by gravity.
The differences in conditions will cause some plants to grow more strongly and therefore taller, and others less strongly and therefore shorter.
The team of archaeologists, led by Lawrence Straus of the University of New Mexico and Manuel González Morales of the University of Cantabria, had been investigating the El Mirón Cave since 1996.
In 1958, aged 66, she excavated on the Aadloun headland in Lebanon, with the assistance of Diana Kirkbride.
Most of the lithic material is flint which had to be transported to the site from a mine at least 30 km (19 mi) away.
Carver matrix Martin Carver of the University of York has also developed a seriation diagram, known as the Carver matrix (not to be confused with the military term also named CARVER matrix).
Trou de l’Abîme also known as La caverne de l'Abîme and Couvin Cave is a karst cave located in Wallonia on the right bank of the Eau Noire river in the center of Couvin, Belgium, in Namur province.
The 1905 artifacts have been associated with a variety of prehistoric cultures, such as Solutrean, Mousterian, Proto-Solutrean and a transitional culture in between the Middle and Upper Paleolithic.
Results of the individual samples are analyzed by removing the natural remanent magnetization (NRM) to reveal the DRM.
Ostracod Analysis Naturally occurring Ostracods in freshwater bodies are Affected by changes in salinity and pH due to human activities.
The relative intensities of the different beams is then measured in the ion collector and relayed as isotope ratios.
One important development is the Vail curve, which attempts to define a global historical sea-level curve according to inferences from worldwide stratigraphic patterns.
Pottery is an example of a stylistic typology because the artifacts provide information on artistic evolution.
He cautions against those who would dismiss new information that contradicts our historical sensibilities, specifically when it demands costly revisions to historic decorative schemas.
General The term is used to denote a series of stratigraphic relationships that constitute a phase or are part of the process of determining the archaeological phases of a site.
He reasoned that the most accurate sequence would be the one where concentrations of certain design styles had the shortest duration across the sequence of papers (Renfrew and Bahn 1996, p.
Principle Cementochronology is based on the assumption that dental cementum deposits reflect an annual rhythm and involves the counting of incremental lines in histological preparations.
The Mousterian (or Mode III) is an archaeological industry of stone tools, associated primarily with the Neanderthals in Europe, and with the earliest anatomically modern humans in North Africa and West Asia.
Copeland, Lorraine and Hours, Francis., The later Upper Palaeolithic material from Antelias Cave, Lebanon, Levels IV-I, Berytus, 20, 57-138, 82, 1971.
Date nails are also found on utility poles, sometimes in conjunction with a nail showing the height of the pole in feet.
The Marshalltown trowel is an excavation implement frequently used by archaeologists and bricklayers.
Aerial survey sensors In order to carry out an aerial survey, a sensor needs to be fixed to the interior or exterior of the airborne platform with line-of-sight to the target; it is remotely sensing.
After a ceramic specimen is removed from the kiln at the time of production, it immediately begins to recombine chemically with moisture from the environment.
References External links Media related to Šipka Cave at Wikimedia Commons Archeolog.cz: Description, site map, photo gallery and literature (in Czech).
This pit feature in turn was "sealed" by the laying down of layer 1 which is probably the same event as layer 4.
Such events can be triggered by rockslides, tree throws, or other events which cause the strata of a deposit to be flipped or reversed.
In 1951, Adrian Oswald published a study of English clay tobacco types, upon which all successive studies were based upon.
Flannery (writing in the early 1970s) refers to the practice in the context of Mesoamerican archaeology, and illustrates its problems; the technique continues to find its practitioners.
The problem with the term Micoquien is that later excavations have revealed an older time placement for the La Micoque axes, which are now dated in the Riss glaciation.
These microscopes can provide a magnification of up to x1000: good enough to provide clear images of starch granules as small as a few micrometres in diameter.
In the 15th century, the Venetian Giosafat Barbaro explored ancient ruins in the Middle East and came back with news of a very odd writing he had found carved on the stones in the temples of Shiraz and on many clay tablets.
1950) Manual of Field Archaeological Methods prepared by a leading American University advocated this method.
A datestone is typically an embedded stone with the date of engraving and other information carved into it.
Even in this case, however, in describing and interpreting the site, the archaeologist will have to look outside the boundaries of the building site.
35%, and is also found in significant amounts among modern Northern Africans, in accordance with the high affinity towards the 'Arabian branch' of Eurasian diversity, which expanded into Northern and Northeastern Africa between 30 and 15 thousand years ago.
It is argued that this lack of interpretation leads to a thoughtless use of the law of superposition, creating chronological anomalies from features and contexts of a tunnelling nature such as drain backfills, buried waterfront tiebacks or natural processes.
Even though other items in the same stratum indicate earlier dates, they may have been deposited at the same time.
Taylor claimed that his ideas included testing of hypotheses and a systems approach decades before processual archaeology.
Pre-parching stress in crops and grass, and other factors that may affect plant health, can be captured in near infra-red photography.
Conversely, a buried ditch, with a fill containing more organic matter than the natural earth, provides much more conducive conditions, and water will naturally collect there, nourishing the plants growing above.
See also Dendrochronology – Method of dating based on the analysis of patterns of tree rings Dendroclimatology – Science of determining past climates from trees Rhythmite – Layers of sediment or sedimentary rock laid down with periodicity and regularity == References ==
The grand cavern at Mas d'Azil is not entirely typical of Azilian sites, many of which are shallow shelters at the bottom of a rock face.
Horry County, South Carolina: Prehistoric Sequence and Settlement on the North Coastal Plain of South Carolina.
The formations succession: Bacho Kiro's Throne, The Dwarfs, The Sleeping Princess, The Throne Hall, The Reception Hall, The Haidouti Meeting-Ground, The Fountain and the Sacrificial Altar.
They counted the 3957 flakes and separated them into four stages in order to show efficiency, which grew subsequently in each stage.
The stone was quarried and rough axe heads were produced there, to be more finely worked and polished elsewhere.
All around, refitting plays had a principal sway in broadening the accuracy of skeletal element identification, quantification, and the derivation of standards of lead.
From his work, Petrie was able to bring chronological order to 2,200 pit graves of the Naqada cemetery in Upper Egypt.
Significance Older remains of early modern humans in the region include fossils from Misliya Cave (c.
In the early 1850s, Thomas joined several archaeological expeditions in Mesopotamia and Assyria in his capacity as an architect.
Georeferencing is not always straightforward; topography such as river courses and coastlines change over time, as do road routes and other built structures.
He was born in Nantes and after graduating from high school Clemenceau, he studied architecture and drafting at the Polytechnique before being admitted to the Beaux-Arts where he studied art under Louis-Hippolyte Lebas.
Defined by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) as: “…a formal programme of observation and investigation conducted during any operation carried out for non-archaeological reasons.
Cementochronology narrow down the age at death estimations in zoology, bioarchaeology and forensic sciences.
As long as undercutting is not endemic, in practice onsite errors in judgment should become evident especially if temporary sections are kept for stratigraphic control in areas of a site that are hard to discern.
An alternative approach is thermal imaging, where differential water loss (which is dependent on the availability of water at the roots) can create temperature differences, which result in thermal crop marks that are potentially visible at any time during crop growth.
Genetics In a genetic study published in 2014, the remains of an Azilian male from the Grotte du Bichon were examined.
France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium or Germany are the European states with the longest history of this discipline.
Examples Features specific to certain architecture types or eras such as trilithon for the purposes of this article are not considered generic.
Gallery See also Archaeological field survey Artifact (archaeology) Assemblage (archaeology) Dating methodology (archaeology) Excavation Post excavation == References ==
Conditions and accuracy Background ionizing radiation around the minerals—for instance quartz or potassium feldspar—buried in the ground causes charge to build up within the minerals.
Annual growth rings in herbs are usually only visible by means of a microscope and a specific staining method.
A shift toward scientific knowledge prompted many early archaeologists to begin documenting their finds.
Nonetheless, studies performed on cementum annulation have shown a strong correlation between the deposits the known age-at-death and allow to estimate adult age-at-death with a better precision than classical dental and osseous methods.
Natural Residual Thermoluminescence as a Method of Analysis of Sand Transport along the Coast of the St.
Samples of deposits from contexts are sometimes also taken, for later environmental analysis or for scientific dating.
The Yafteh cave and five other Baradostian caves are protected as a World Heritage Site under the name The Prehistoric Sites of the Khorramabad Valley.
Gallery In Southern Iberia A culture very similar to the Azilian spread as well into Mediterranean Spain and southern Portugal.
Professorship Garrod was the first female professor at Cambridge and was instrumental in changing it into an integrated institution.
The principal goal of the method is to allow for the constant referral to the vertical profile of the site, a concept that was present by Pitt-River’s work at Cranbourne Chase, only on a much larger scale.
Residues containing obvious plant tissue are most easily recognizable, while thin smears are not as easy to recognize.
Auguste Bergy also made a small excavation here and another sounding was made possibly in 1948 by J.
For example, the date of formation of a context which is totally sealed between two datable layers will fall between the dates of the two layers sealing it.
The lithic industry at Okladnikov Cave shares most similarities with another site in the Altai-Sayan region, Chagyrskaya Cave, and are rather distinct from other Altai sites.
A visitor centre has been built around the site in order to protect the friezes and present them to visitors.
By floating them parallel to the seafloor, they can measure the changes in magnetic fields over the seabed.
However they were shown to be genetically closer to Holocene-era Iranians and Levantine populations, which already harbored increased archaic (Neanderthal) admixture.
Date nail use has dropped dramatically since the mid-20th century and the advent of more modern maintenance of way equipment.
It is also used for dating the deposition of geological sediments after they have been transported by air (aeolian sediments) or rivers (fluvial sediments).
Once color printing came in, the layers idea was also used for creating separate printing plates for each color.
The cave is a four-storey labyrinth of galleries and corridors with a total length of 3,600 m (11,800 ft), 700 m (2,300 ft) of which are maintained for public access and equipped with electrical lights since 1964.
In layman's terms, a cut can be thought of as a hole that was dug in the past, though cut also applies to other parts of the archaeological record such as horizontal truncations like terraced ground.
Since large bones survive better than plants this also has created a bias and inclination towards big-game hunting rather than gathering when considering prehistoric economies.
By 1805 they were also manufacturing steel on the site, which was now known as the Brades Steel Works.
Excavation history The history of discoveries at Roc-aux-Sorciers begins in 1927, when Lucien Rousseau discovered the Paleolithic habitation and identified it as mid-Magdalenian in its culture.
At the time it was found scientists were unable to determine whether it was Homo sapiens or Neanderthal.
More recent isotopic data, gathered from his gut contents, provides yet another timescale and hint that Ötzi's movement could be attributable to seasonal migration.
However, this method has mostly fallen out of use, and archaeologists and conservators are now focused on preserving the site in its present state Conservators Conservators are the other leading voices for the advocacy and of archaeological site conservation.
Indeed, clay flocculation occurs at high ionic strength due to the collapse of the clay electrical double layer (EDL), which decreases the electrostatic repulsion between negatively charged clay particles.
Issues of definition Natural is becoming a blurred term in archaeology due to an increased understanding by researchers of natural processes.
This runs across North Africa to Israel and thence to India, separating two different techniques used by Acheulean toolmakers.
However, an MNI of 10 could strengthen a legal case or provide additional context for archaeological excavation.
The classification was incorporated into a sequence of pollen zones later defined by Lennart von Post, one of the founders of palynology.
Petrographic research is often presented at the International Symposium on Archaeometry, the European Meeting on Ancient Ceramics and the meetings of the Ceramic Petrology Group.
Typically STP are excavated to a maximum average of 1.0 m, although it is possible to excavate somewhat deeper (1.25 to 1.5 m) dependent upon the excavator and the tools available.
The standard of training on an excavation can be variable, with some sites run by academic archaeologists who are not up to date with current practice.
The Horizons and their dominant cultures are: Early Horizon, Chavin; Middle Horizon, Tiwanaku and Wari culture; Late Horizon, Inca.
Verulamium also served to spread the Wheelers' methodology among a new generation of archaeologists by using the excavation to train students from the London Museum.
Such marks, along with parch marks, soil marks and frost marks, can reveal buried man-made structures that are not visible from the ground.
Therefore, archaeologists limit the amount of excavation that they do at each site and keep meticulous records of what is found.
Across a horizon, the same type of artefact or style is found very widely over a large area, and it can be assumed that these traces are approximately contemporary.
Specific information is required for uploading data to the database, such as the raw tree ring measurements, an indication of the type of measurement (full ring widths, earlywood, latewood), and the location.
It can also be used in day-to-day life by specialists within the pharmaceutical and food industries in order to determine taxa origins and food quality.
When elements or parts are missing, modern materials (of restoration grade) may be substituted, such as plaster, cement, and synthetic resins.
When the discipline is applied to archaeological remains, it is known as paleocarpology, which in turn is located within paleobotanical science.
Rock varnish microlamination is a geological phenomenon in which a "varnish" or dark coating builds up on rock surfaces that are exposed to the atmosphere.
Segments that showed readable cementum layers are captured with a digital camera and readings are performed on selected segments.
35,000 year old 'BK1653' were more closely related to modern European populations than to East Asians.
She was taught by Robert Ranulph Marett, a Reader in Social Anthropology and an experienced excavator.
Stratigraphy is a branch of geology concerned with the study of rock layers (strata) and layering (stratification).
Preservation of biopolymers The taphonomic pathways involved in relatively inert substances such as calcite (and to a lesser extent bone) are relatively obvious, as such body parts are stable and change little through time.
A second factor is mechanical, in that excavation is limited by the tools and techniques used (i.e., shovel versus trowel).
People have used the Strava mobile app and other GPS systems to create GPS drawings, virtual geoglyphs.
Crushed and separated powders, obtained by the processes above, may be analyzed to determine chemical composition of minerals in the rock qualitatively or quantitatively.
The method deemed the most effective out of the others tested consisted of an acid-base treatment, using hydrochloric acid (HCl) to clean the samples, followed by a solution of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to oxidise them.
This technique is employed as accurate indicator of age among wildlife biologists on present and archaeological populations but is increasingly used in forensic anthropology and physical anthropology.
Date nails were tagging devices utilized by railroads and utility companies to visually identify the age of railroad ties or utility poles.
There is also a growing body of evidence that indicates varnish microstratigraphy carries a climate record: manganese-poor yellow layers formed during dry periods, while mangangese-rich black layers deposited during wet periods.
Soil marks typically become visible in ploughed or harrowed fields, usually where there are restricted periods before the crops grow.
Background The discovery was published in 2015 by a team of archaeologists from Universidad de Burgos, Universidad de Cantabria and University of New Mexico.
After the damage was assessed, it was determined that the site was not eligible for the National Register of Historic Places.
corbel gable stone Gatepost: a large upright piece of (usually) granite, usually set at the entrance to a driveway or a field.
Thus, if one knows the 14C proportion that an organic sample contained when it was formed (say, by absorption of atmospheric carbon in photosynthesis), and its lower proportion today, then the precise time since that photosynthesis may be calculated directly (up to measurement errors).
However, analysis of a subsequent layer exposed an incongruous black and white schema, indicating a failed attempt at a colonial revival aesthetic.
The closely related E1b1b1b (M-123) haplogroup has been reported for Epipaleolithic Natufians and Pre-Pottery Neolithic Levantines.
Macroscopic methods do not involve destruction of the specimen while microscopic methods are more time intensive and require equipment, some destruction, and specialized knowledge.
In the warm Atlantic period, Denmark was occupied by Mesolithic cultures, rather than Neolithic, notwithstanding the climatic evidence.
A commissioned survey is a kind of archaeological and social survey performed in return for money or goods.
See also Airlift pump Aspirator (pump) Gas lift References Nuestra Señora de la Concepción by William M.
The Eburran industry is the name of an East African tool assemblage that dates from 13,000 BCE and thereafter, found around Lake Nakuru in the Ol Doinyo Eburru volcano complex in the Rift Valley, Kenya.
A year later, when she discovered similar material at el Wad (now in the Nahal Me'arot Nature Reserve), Garrod suggested the name "the Natufian culture" after the Wadi Natuf, which runs close to Shuqba.
See also Archaeological plan Archaeological association Cut (archaeology) Archaeological section Feature (archaeology) Chronological dating Reverse stratigraphy References and sources References Sources The MoLAS archaeological site manual MoLAS, London 1994.
A defining trait distinguishing Gravettian people was their ease of mobility compared to their Neanderthal counterparts.
The Azilian is a Mesolithic industry of the Franco-Cantabrian region of northern Spain and Southern France.
If there are three examples of a right humerus, then obviously that implies there were at least three individuals.
He remembered that the water was warm when he fell into the sea, but as the "Diamond" machine had just blown up, we cannot reasonably infer from the rise in temperature of this water that it was the work of the fiery cloud.The wreck of the Diamant now lies 30 meters deep.
Shadow marks are the most informative when they are used along with other remote sensing methodologies.
Both Kendall and Jensen & Høilund Nielsen (1997) created artificial data sets to show that the parabola results in ideal circumstances.
Analysis of genomes of GoyetQ2-related Magdalenians suggest that like earlier Cro-Magnon groups, they probably had a relatively dark skin tone compared to modern Europeans.
Eburran assemblages, as recovered from Gamble's Cave and Nderit Drift, comprise large backed blades, crescent microliths, burins, and endscrapers.
Leica ADS100 WaldoAir XCAM RIEGL LMS-Q780 Trimble AX80 Gpixel GMAX32152 / GMAX32103 See also Unmanned aerial photogrammetric survey References External links PBS Nova—The Sky's Eyes: Remote Sensing in Archaeology
Culture Physical preservation can also work to maintain spiritual and culture integrity of an object, especially in the case of musical instruments.
Transcription Similarities between maps, such as topography or built structures, are identified to determine where distinct features from one map are plotted on another.
An archaeological horizon can be understood as a break in contexts formed in the Harris matrix, which denotes a change in epoch on a given site by delineation in time of finds found within contexts.
An example of phase use would be all the contexts between two horizons may represent the entirety of all Saxon occupation on a given site and could be termed as the Saxon phase of the site.
Locations Mousterian artifacts have been found in Haua Fteah in Cyrenaica and other sites in Northwest Africa.
Today, aerial survey is often recognized as a synonym for aerophotogrammetry, a part of photogrammetry where the camera is airborne.
Archaeology Excavations of the cave entrance were first conducted in 1887 and 1902 but the evidence recovered from these is lost.
History Cementochronology was first used in zoology for estimating both age-at-death and season of death.
If the sample is freshly burned there will be no oxidizable carbon because it would have all been removed by the combustion process.
The strongly racist character of Kossinna's work meant it had little direct influence outside of Germany at the time (the Nazi Party enthusiastically embraced his theories), or at all after World War II.
The most notable section of this sequence covers the Middle Palaeolithic, associated with the Neanderthal Mousterian culture and recently discovered subsequent strata that were associated with the earliest known appearance of Anatomically modern humans in Europe.
They would usually extend to significant and detailed efforts by trading companies to study institutions of indigenous communities as a precursor to colonial powers exerting colonial supremacy.
It is difficult to determine the extent of human involvement in this bone assemblage, except for two bones bearing traces of manipulation.
Octave Chanute, railroad and aviation pioneer, is credited with the idea for using date nails as a way of tracking the life of railroad ties.
Other requirements for its effectiveness are that the samples must be random, representative of the site and that the sites the samples are from must have a constant rate of deposition.
Its unique features are the bun-shaped occipital, the moderate arch of the parietals, flat sagittal area, presence of a suprainiac fossa, and the pronounced superior nuchal line.
Following these rules, an assemblage of objects can be placed into sequence so that sites with the most similar proportions of certain styles are always together (Lock 2003, p.
In contrast to the broader use of the word that was introduced to English-language anthropology by Edward Burnett Tylor, Kultur was used by German ethnologists to describe the distinctive ways of life of a particular people or Volk, in this sense equivalent to the French civilisation.
Deposits are excavated from four quarters of the feature, starting with two diagonally opposite quadrants and perhaps ending with the other two.
Radiometric dating indicates that it is about 54,700 years old (the late Mousterian), and thought to be directly ancestral to the Upper Paleolithic populations of the Levant and Europe.
The Grotta del Cavallo or Cavallo Cave (Italian:"Cave of the Horse") is a limestone cave in the region of Apulia, Southern Italy, near Nardò 90 km (55.92 mi) south of Taranto.
Note how only the stratigraphic relationships build into the matrix as the excavation progresses rather than all the physical relationships.
Even if the remains are well preserved, water logging, dehydration, desiccation or damage from fungi can destroy the starch.
Destruction Antelias Cave was destroyed by dynamite in the spring of 1964 due to quarrying in the area.
For example, if the wood gave out a heavy thudding sound, then this would indicate that the underlying bedrock had been disturbed while undisturbed bedrock would emit a thinner and sharper tone.
Édouard Lartet and Henry Christy originally termed the period L'âge du renne "the age of the reindeer".
In 1982, Margaret Jones (site director at the Mucking excavation) said that some sites were being interpreted on crop mark evidence alone.
Surveys and documentation are important to preservation and archaeology, and GIS makes this research and fieldwork efficient and precise.
See also Dendrochronology References External links International Tree-Ring Data Bank Ultimate Tree-Ring Web Pages Archived 2013-08-07 at the Wayback Machine Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research University of Arizona
One pair composed of a single light and a single dark line is considered to represent one calendar year and age estimation is calculated by adding the average age of tooth eruption to the line count determined.
As geoarchaeology continues to influence the interpretation of processes that occur within the archaeological record, the term "natural" has become less useful.
In Western Europe, excavation is the final stage in a sequence of activities that start with desk-based assessments of the archaeological potential through exploratory fieldwork: monument surveys, test pitting, shovel pitting, evaluations, and so forth.
XRF (X-ray fluorescence) XRF (X-ray fluorescence) is also a common technique and is useful for both qualitative and quantitative data on ceramic samples.
The interaction of the processes involved can be complex, and the prediction of optimal imaging time, for a given site, is further complicated by environmental conditions including temperature variation and relative humidity.
Etymology It is a term introduced in 1990 by archaeologist and computer scientist Paul Reilly to describe the use of computer based simulations of archaeological excavations.
The experiment also shows that the Levallois core is an economic optimal strategy of raw material (lithic) usage, which means it can generate the longest cutting edge per weight unit of raw material.
Henry Wellcome (Sudan) Lionel Rees (Jordan) Giacomo Boni (Italy) Applications of aerial archaeology Aerial archaeology plays a crucial role in discovering new archaeological sites and mapping their extent.
Sites on the Adriatic coast and its hinterland are Mujina pećina, with a Mousterian stratigraphic sequence, and Velika pećina in Kličevica with finds approximately 40,000 years old that are late Mousterian.
Particle sizes are generally separated using dry or wet sieving (coarse samples such as till, gravel, and sands, sometimes coarser silts) or by measuring the changes in the density of a dispersed solution (in sodium pyrophosphate, for example) of the sample (finer silts, clays).
When an unworked nodule of obsidian is initially fractured, there is typically less than 1% water present.
History The Ahmarian period together with the Emiran period, both from the Levant, are among the first periods of the Upper Paleolithic, corresponding to the first stages of the expansion of Homo sapiens out of Africa.
principal point the point of intersection of the optical axis of the aerial camera with the photographical plane.
Thought to have existed between c.35,000 BP and c.20,000 BP the Perigordian was theorized by prehistorians (namely Denis Peyrony).
It has also been found in Montenegro, Italy, France, Africa and Syria and is similar to another tiny sized Mousterian industry called the Pontinian.
Several Epigravettian cultural centers have developed contemporaneously after 22,000 years BP in Europe.
In Morocco and western Algeria, the Iberomaurusian is succeeded by the Cardial culture after a long hiatus.
One manual technique is to copy features from earlier maps onto transparent overlays placed on the most recent map which provides the spatial framework.
Some years later, Suzanne de Saint-Mathurin became aware of Rousseau's article and decided to explore further, hoping to find some incised plaquettes like those from the cave at Lussac-les-Châteaux, also in Vienne.
Yet, these renovations have faced criticism throughout the years and "what is restored does not accurately reflect what was found.
At least three robust, but typically anatomically modern, individuals from the Peștera cu Oase cave in Romania, were dated directly from the bones to ca.
Détection des fossés comblés sur terrains sans végétation grâce à l'humidité rémanente des remblais.
Cambridge Manuals in Archaeology: Archaeological Illustration Cambridge University Press John Hodgson (2000).
In recent years, the study of submerged WWII sites and of submerged aircraft in the form of underwater aviation archaeology have also emerged as bona fide activity.
Georeferencing establishes a congruent relationship between maps, and allows each map to be transformed and automatically re-projected as an overlay.
Systems having long linear arrays of many electrodes are often used in geological applications, and less commonly in archaeology.
It is larger and more flexible than the WHS trowel preferred by archaeologists in the United Kingdom, which makes it better for cleaning profiles but less suited to digging heavy clay and gravel deposits.
Aerial survey should be distinguished from satellite imagery technologies because of its better resolution, quality, and resistance to atmospheric conditions that can negatively impact and obscure satellite observation.
Most typically, there is a change in the type of pottery found and in the style of less frequent major artefacts.
North Africa has been described as a strong candidate for the location of the emergence of Basal Eurasians by Loosdrecht et al.
Hill and Gauch (1979) created a similar contingency table with a regular structure with each context containing six types.
Researchers are facing the problem that only lipids, which are likely to preserve, can be detected and identified.
Thus excavators look to post holes, pits, or find spots under the orthostats for clues to construction dates.
The Baron de Girardot, in a book dedicated to him, said about him, "Modest to a fault, withdrawn and lonely, he painted for him." Thomas died in Nantes in April 1875.
The hill’s Eastern entrance required particularly careful stratigraphic analysis, due to its extended use across multiple phases of occupation with new structures and alterations appearing to meet the needs of the occupants.
Each locale has a unique Sr isotope ratio and, therefore, the ratio found in a bone or enamel sample can be cross referenced against a record of environmental Sr ratios and assigned to a region.
Perhaps the most difficult part of interpreting Taylor's influence on the discipline as a whole is that neither he nor anyone else ever produced a substantive work within the framework of conjunctive archaeology.
Whatever method is used to get the phosphorus from the soil into solution, the process of detecting it is usually the same.
In 2008, although varves were considered likely to give similar information to dendrochronology, they were considered "too uncertain" for use on a long-term timescale.
However, the types of data and the rules for accuracy and precision of the primary data, tree-ring width measurements, are decided by the dendrochronologists who are contributing the data, rather than by NOAA or any other governing organization.
Finds from each context are bagged and labelled with their context number and site code for later cross-reference work carried out post excavation.
In the case of collagen, there are three main modes of isolation: Decalcification of small bone chunks in a 1-5% hydrochloric acid solution.
By this stage, other geologists were investigating varve sequences, including Matti Sauramo who constructed a varve chronology of the last deglaciation in Finland.
A survey of buildings identifying which have basements in them for example may suggest that certain streets have had all their archaeology removed (or truncated) in the past.
Thermal imaging can also reveal archaeological residues as a result of thermal inertia (storage heater effect) or differential evaporation.
In 2010, they explored a narrow space behind a large limestone block inside the cave, where they discovered the Red Lady.
It is important that the material is dried thoroughly before being mounted to ensure that no further degradation of the sample occurs.
Key changes to the portal that occurred over its Pre-Roman lifespan included the use of gates, the construction of wattle revetments and later dry limestone walling, and the addition of triangular ramparts and ditch barbicans in front of the portals to restrict access and create animal enclosures.
Conversely, planning a multi-context urban site is difficult to achieve on a multi-context plan as the features and deposits, when planned, will obscure each other on the same planning sheet.
The two researchers Henri-Louis Otz and Charles Knab conducted the first excavations of the cave in 1867, creating two trenches where they identified, among other things, bones of cave bears, which they considered at the time to be an accumulation of human origin.
Development-led excavation – undertaken by professional archaeologists when the site is threatened by building development.
A rich Mousterian stone industry, dating to between 33,000 and 44,000 years ago, was discovered, as well as several highly fragmented hominin fossils.
A sample will provide misleading or confusing results if materials of different ages are deposited in the same context.
La explotación económica de las semillas las frutas en el marco mediterráneo de la Península Ibérica, Crítica, Barcelona, 1997.
Petrie listed the contents of each grave on a strip of cardboard and swapped the papers around until he arrived at a sequence he was satisfied with.
Slide mounting and viewing Starch granules are mounted onto a slide, using a variety of mounting medias including, but not limited, to water, glycerol, and glycerine jelly.
Along with a few other Neanderthal sites in the Altai-Sayan region, Okladnikov Cave contains fossil evidence for the most easterly confirmed site with Neanderthal presence.
(1999), La Micoque und das Micoquien in den altsteinzeitlichen Sammlungen des Reiss-Museums Mannheim.- Mannh.
Drains or hypocaust systems often have later material deposited within them during their "use", which may be much much later than either their initial construction or indeed the construction, use and disuse of the floors above them.
The production of phase interpretations is the first goal of stratigraphic interpretation and excavation.
The Ahmarian culture was a Paleolithic archeological industry in the Levant dated at 46,000–42,000 years before present (BP) and thought to be related to Levantine Emiran and younger European Aurignacian cultures.
If compelling archaeological reasons for supposing that the ages come from exactly contemporary samples do not exist, then results must be regarded as suspect.
An example of a code nail would be the Chicago and North Western Railway "FNB" nail meaning First National Bank, which would be hammered into the ends of some C&NW ties.
He and Louis Rémi Raige began comparing the text of this register with the Greek one, reasoning that the middle register would be more fruitful than the hieroglyphic text, most of which was missing.
sapiens that lived nearby, although some scholars believe that this industry represents indigenous biological and cultural development independent to and preceding the arrival of modern populations.
The Borden System is an archaeological numbering system used throughout Canada and by the Canadian Museum System to track archaeological sites and the artefacts that come from them.
backed microblades), and the degree of the development of the microblade technology (i.e., backed flakes vs.
Fossils are ubiquitous in sedimentary rocks, yet paleontologists cannot draw the most accurate conclusions about the lives and ecology of the fossilized organisms without knowing about the processes involved in their fossilization.
Use for dosimetry The OSL dosimeter provides a new degree of sensitivity by giving an accurate reading as low as 1 mrem for x-ray and gamma ray photons with energies ranging from 5 keV to greater than 40 MeV.
"Horizons" are periods of cultural stability and political unity, with "Intermediate periods" covering the politically fragmented transition between them.
Galleries and caverns of a 1,200 m (3,900 ft) long section have been musingly named as a popular description of this fairy-tale underground world.
Sites In addition to the Szeletian cave in Hungary, assemblages have been found in Dzierzyslaw and Lubotyń (Poland), at Čertova Pec in Slovakia, and at Pod Hradem (Moravia).
Metallography exams the size and shape of the grains of minerals in the materials for traces of heating, working and alloying.
According to Jayanti Madhukar, it is defined as: a process of ‘lifting’ the inscriptions from the stone on to a piece of paper for a clearer read The Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines it as: an impression of an inscription made on inked paper Etymology According to T.S.
They were also unrelated to a 40,000 year old skeleton from Oase, Romania and several similarly aged skeletons from Bacho Kiro Cave, Bulgaria, who represented another basal lineage closer to but outside the West-East Eurasian split.
See also Archaeology of Israel Prehistory of the Levant Skhul and Qafzeh hominins References External links Human Timeline (Interactive) – Smithsonian, National Museum of Natural History (August 2016).
Since its introduction, the focus of the term has been extended to explore methods that increase the visibility and accessibility of archaeology.
This is also the case regarding the issue of whether this culture gradually evolved from the previous Zagros Mousterian cultural group, which is associated primarily with the Neanderthals, or whether early modern humans brought to the Zagros region the technologies linked to the Baradostian.
It is the goal of complete excavation to remove the entirety of the archaeological record all the way to the "natural", leaving only the natural deposits of pre-human activity on site.
In 1926, Garrod published her first academic work, The Upper Paleolithic of Britain, for which she was awarded a B.Sc.
Earlywood tissue is characterized by wide vessels or denser arrangement of vessels, whereas latewood tissue shows narrower vessels and/or lower vessel density.
The earliest culture in the tradition is the Châtelperronian which is thought to have produced denticulate tools and flint knives.
Methods Map regression is performed either by comparing individual features between maps, or by re-projecting an entire map so as to fit another onto which it can then be superimposed.
External links French Ministry of Culture information site; includes an interactive virtual reproduction Centre d'interprétation de la frise magdalénienne du Roc-aux-Sorciers (Official website) Archives of the Roc-aux-sorciers project (wiki)
Thomas is co-author (with Victor Place), and illustrator of Nineveh and Assyria, first published in 1867 Gallery Select list of paintings and drawings The Visit of the Pacha of Mosul to the Excavations at Khorsabad c.
Out of the twelve localities, SDG1 proved to be most important with the discovery of numerous unique, elongated blanks and Levallois-like cores found.
Until the exact phonetic reading of many names was determined through parallel passages or explanatory lists, scholars remained in doubt or had recourse to conjectural or provisional readings.
As a result, Azilian tools and art were cruder and less expansive than their Ice Age predecessors - or simply different.
On present teeth, classical histological methods are often used and require decalcification of the dental tissue and staining protocol for collagen.
Beyond this, the definition and geographical extent of a "site" can vary widely, depending on the period studied and the theoretical approach of the archaeologist.
Consequently, shifts between lithic industries are thought to reflect major milestones in human evolution, such as changes in cognitive ability or even the replacement of one human species by another.
See also Archaeology Cartography Collaborative mapping References Further reading "Step by step map analysis".
See also Archaeological association Archaeological context Archaeological section Chronological dating Cut (archaeology) Excavation (archaeology) Feature (archaeology) Fill (archaeology) Harris matrix Relationship (archaeology) References Sources Principles of Archaeological Stratigraphy.
Cyclododecane is lipophilic, usually present in the environment as adsorbed on the surface of soil particles.
This is an important distinction to note as tools can be used for more than its intended function or designed for several purposes.
The concept of a feature is, to a certain degree, abstract, as it will change depending on the scale of excavation.
Material can contain memories and mutual experiences across time and influence thoughts and feelings.
Archaeological theory is used to interpret the archaeological record for a better understanding of human cultures.
Archaeologists use a variety of tools when carrying out surveys, including GIS, GPS, remote sensing, geophysical survey and aerial photography.
Machines are often used in what is called salvage or rescue archaeology in developer-led excavation when there are financial or time pressures.
Graeme Barker notes there are: "similarities in the respective archaeological records of the Natufian culture of the Levant and of contemporary foragers in coastal North Africa across the late Pleistocene and early Holocene boundary".
Smith (2000), "Makers of the early Aurignacian of Europe", American Journal of Physical Anthropology Vol.113 (S31): 61 - 115.
Chronological typology This type consists of sequential ordering of archaeological artifacts merely based on form.
The resulting flake that broke off would have a natural sharp edge for cutting and could afterwards be sharpened further by striking another smaller flake from the edge if necessary (known as "retouch").
Optimal methods for working with hDNA and aDNA can differ as a result of differences in their DNA degradation history.
Then once a relationship is established contexts can be removed from site in the reverse order they arrived in accordance with the stratigraphic excavation and the creation of a Harris matrix for the sequence being investigated.
They also questioned if differences in the use of a vessel in regard to cultural prohibitions can be detected.
All Gravettian-producing peoples are strongly genetically distinct from the producers of the later Epigravettian, who are genetically referred to as the Villabruna cluster, who show a greater affinity to ancient and modern peoples in West Asia than other Palaeolithic European hunter-gatherer groups.
This led Harrington to identify five time periods between the years 1620-1800 to which pipes could be dated based upon the decrease in the bore diameter of the clay pipe stem.
Mammoth remnants are among the most common bone remnants of the culture, while long bones and molars are also documented.
Loops are sequences in the matrix that produce temporal anomalies so that the earliest context in a sequence of context appears to be later than the latest context by virtue of errors in excavation or recording.
The method involves using low-order polynomials of spatial coordinates to estimate a regular grid of points from scattered observations such as archeological finds or soil survey results.
This information is used to estimate an effective lifetime temperature or ELT which is then used in the dating calculation.
For this reason, it is often used where preservation (rather than excavation) is the goal for project preservation and compliance with applicable laws.
Manufacture The primary innovation associated with Acheulean hand-axes is that the stone was worked symmetrically and on both sides.
This will be within a specified area or site on land, inter-tidal zone or underwater, where there is a possibility that archaeological deposits may be disturbed or destroyed.
Bosing is an unsophisticated method for the discovery of buried archaeological features such as pits and ditches dug into a thin substratum of rock, such as limestone or chalk.
Sequence dating, an archaeological relative dating method, allows assemblages to be arranged in a rough serial order, which is then taken to indicate time.
The Behistun inscription was to the decipherment of cuneiform what the Rosetta Stone (discovered in 1799) was to the decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphs in 1822.
The Site The rockshelter is open on the south side, on the right bank of the river Anglin, at the base of the Douce cliffs.
Occurrence Archaeology that involves plough-damaged field systems, burial mounds, Roman villas or former sites usually produce soil marks.
According to Kahneman, people infuse objects they own with a higher value than they do if they do not own the object.
In North Africa, the Levallois technique was used in the Middle Stone Age, most notably in the Aterian industry to produce very small projectile points.
Its technology resembles the Mousterian Levallois technique, as do the contemporary assemblages of the Szeletian (centered on the Bükk Mountains of Hungary but also present in southern Poland) and the Uluzzian (Italy).
Preserved forms of modified starch include: Discrete desiccated macroremains: coherent foods that are not attached to any other object and are among the most easily recognizable ancient starchy prepared foodstuffs.
With unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), sensors are often mounted under or inside the vehicle, allowing for rapid data collection over challenging terrains, though sometimes with less precision than traditional methods.
Whereas contextual seriation is based on the presence or absence of a design style, frequency seriation relies on measuring the proportional abundance or frequency of a design style.
Wescombe recovered some cave deposits from which they hoped to extract material for radio-carbon dating.
Training excavations for archaeology are normally run by university departments or large contractors and employ professional archaeologists to teach the basics of archaeological methodology, including photography, stratigraphy, illustration and draughtsmanship as well as survey and finds treatment.
Overlies: A context is said to overlie another when the overlying context is later in time and makes physical contact with the earlier context.
Ravishankar, former director of the Epigraphy branch of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Estampage is a purely Indian term used by Epigraphists.
Tools found included a Levallois point, burins, bladelets, overpassed blades, and Aurignacian tools.
An example of a horizon is the dark earth horizon in England, which separates Roman artefacts from medieval artefacts and which may indicate the abandonment of urban areas in Roman Britain during the 2nd to 5th centuries.
Henri Fleisch re-examined the material from Zumoffen's excavation and concluded that it was not solely Aurignacian but showed evidence of successive industries present as late as the Neolithic.
After the recording of the sections, the balks may be removed and the rest of the feature excavated.
Map regression is the process of working backwards from later maps to earlier maps of the same area, to determine change or to locate past features.
In this case care must be taken to re-context the slipped deposits so the event of slippage appears in the correct place stratigraphically in the Harris matrix.
Process of estampage Estampage is typically obtained by pressing wet paper on to the rock face, over which any ink material (usually, coal or Indian ink) is wiped.
Preservation of meaning in library, archival or museum collections involves understanding spiritual, ritual, or cultural perceptions of value for specific objects, and ensuring these values are maintained and respected.
The assumption was that certain styles of pottery were popular in certain times, and during that time, the popularity would reach a peak and then fade away.
"The Unethical Enterprise of the Past: Lessons from the Collapse of Archaeological Heritage Management in Spain" Journal of Business Ethics.
Many rely on slope processes, however other instances where deposits containing material later than overlying deposits occur in such features as drains or hypocaust systems.
For human bones, the assumption of about 5% nitrogen in the bone, mostly in the form of collagen, allows fairly consistent dating techniques.
This would have endangered the wild cereals, which could no longer compete with dryland scrub, but upon which the population had become dependent to sustain a relatively large sedentary population.
Limitations When applying lipid residue analysis to archaeological and ethnographic material, one must always keep in mind that interpretations are limited, and certain food resources can still be 'hidden'.
The cave is situated in Western Galilee, about 10 km north of the HaYonim Cave and 50 km northeast of Mt.
This is not definitive as surfaces can be referred to as features of a building and free standing structures with no construction cut can still be features.
Another application is to look at the tolerances of plant species to determine 'summer warmth and dryness' and 'wetness and winter warmth'.
The manner of production is a solid continuation of the Mousterian but the ivory adornments found in association are similar to those made by the Aurignacian.
From this stage, another wave of modern humans migrated to Europe from Africa to form the beginning of the European Upper Paleolithic, including the Aurignacian culture, where they become known as the Cro-Magnons.
Although he hoped to find phonetic signs in the hieroglyphic script, he was thwarted by the wide variety of phonetic spellings the script used.
The more difficult and skilful part of optical petrography is identifying the interrelationships between grains and relating them to features seen in hand-sized specimen, at outcrop, or in mapping.
Contour gauges consist of a set of steel or plastic pins that are set tightly against one another in a frame which keeps them in the same plane and parallel while allowing them to move independently, perpendicularly to the frame.
"Heritage Management and Aboriginal Australians: Relations in a Global, Neoliberal Economy—A Contemporary Case Study from Victoria".
The alternating deposits could be regulated under genetic factors but could be influenced by biomechanical and physiological factors in link with nutrition and/or environment.
Overview An archaeological plan can either take the form of A "multi context" plan, which is drawn with many contexts on it to show relationships between these features as part of some phase, or Alternatively, a single context plan with a single feature is drawn.
The Asturian culture in the area to the west along the coast was also similar, but added a distinctive form of pick-axe to its toolkit.
By examining microstructural evidence for processes such as clay paste preparation, forming and firing, ceramic petrographers can reconstruct the steps involved in the production of ceramic artefacts.
"Verifying the Reliability of Lithic Use-Wear Assessments by 'Blind Tests': The Low-Power Approach." Journal of Field Archaeology 7 (1980): 1-34.
A team led by archaeological scientist Katerina Douka has dated the Uluzzian as lasting from shortly before 45,000 to around 39,500 years before present (BP), at a similar date or slightly earlier than the Campanian Ignimbrite eruption.
Another influential textbook, Hole and Heizer's An Introduction to Prehistoric Archaeology, does not overtly condemned spit excavation.
Example 3: Ideal data, seriation and correspondence analysis The contingency table shows 29 contexts with ideal seriation data as created by Kendall and Jensen & Høilund Nielsen (see above).
Computer programmes do exist which can aid the production of a matrix, though at the moment these tend towards articulating linear sequences rather than multi-linear sequences.
Oxford Archaeology indicated it might switch to the American-made Marshalltown trowel; and British Archaeological Jobs Resource received complaints of breakages on site.
It provides a regional perspective by gathering information on settlement patterns over a large area.
The word "Ahmarian" was adopted from the archaeological site of Erq el-Ahmar (also written Erk el Ahmar), West Bank, Palestine, a rockshelter in the Judean Desert in the northern Dead Sea Rift.
Cross-discipline correlation The Blytt–Sernander classification has been used as a temporal framework for the archaeological cultures of Europe and America.
Although many features may be visible at ground level following machining, the proper limits of features are often not so initially discernible until the area of the feature is fully cleaned and subsequently excavated, revealing further features and relationships lower in the sequence.
In the case of a probe, technical work steps such as the precise measurement of the cut are particularly important.
Victor Place, the new French Consul in Mosul hired Thomas to join the expedition as the project designer.
It can be used for dating the host rock; it is particularly well preserved and therefore useful in arid and semi-arid regions.
Conjunctive archaeology is a method of studying of the past developed by Walter Taylor in the 1940s that combined elements of both traditional archaeology and the allied field of anthropology.
Many sites are only excavated due to this type of practice, where development is not pressing for completion and more time can be taken in the long term investigation of the site and training of new archaeologists.
Genetic evidence from Ranis also indicates a small population size, with an effective population size of only a few hundred people, correlating with the sparse archaeological record of the LRJ complex.
The most important sites with significant Neanderthal and Mousterian finds in Croatia are Krapina, Vindija, Velika pećina and Veternica, located in the north-western part of Croatia and the region of Hrvatsko zagorje.
Fullen's study of the Sarah Peralta site in Louisiana found that the OCR method served as an effective means of inferring time at the site in the absence of radiometrically dateable charcoal.
It is also common practice to plan for each context on a separate piece of perma-trace that conforms to these 5m grid squares.
The ability to identify these residues is affected by the quantity and appearance of the residue, as well as the awareness of the excavators.
Samples Dating information was directly obtained from several hominin fossil elements at Okladnikov Cave (Source:).
The word 'varve' derives from the Swedish word varv whose meanings and connotations include 'revolution', 'in layers', and 'circle'.
In many cases this will be a silt or naturally accumulating material that forms in the base of some hole or trench before its function is realized.
In the single dispersal Out of Africa theory, it is believed that populations related to the Initial Upper Palaeolithic population of Bacho Kiro cave contributed ancestry to later Asian populations and early West Europeans such as the c.
It is one of the earliest known backed-bladelet industries in Northern Africa, dating between 22.5 and 16 ka cal BP in Nubia.
The Halfan industry is characterized by three main tools: Halfa flakes, backed microflakes, and backed microblades.
Louise Baker (archaeological illustrator) Post excavation Training excavation Category:Archaeological illustrators References Further reading Philip Barker (1977).
Towards the end of his life, he divided his time between his studio in Nantes and Pornic on the Atlantic coast.
Depending on time constraints and importance contexts may also be photographed, but in this case a grouping of contexts and their associations are the purpose of the photography.
Such a development was discussed at the first international conference on virtual archaeology, organized by the Department of Eastern Europe and Siberian Archaeology of the State Hermitage Museum, which took place in Saint Petersburg in 2012.
Thomas made substantial contributions to the success of the excavation through his acute observations, the boldness of his reconstructions and the quality of his drawings which contributed to a rich understanding of the architecture of the Palace.
Collections from the cave can be found in the Musée de l'Homme, Paris, Museum of Lebanese Prehistory and the Archaeological Museum of the American University of Beirut.
With manned aircraft, this is accomplished either through an aperture in the skin of the aircraft or mounted externally on a wing strut.
There is lithic and paleontological material from a 1905 excavation but as these were found in reworked sediments from the earlier excavations the context has been lost.
The decoration is simple patterns of dots, zig-zags, and stripes, with some crosses or hatching, normally just on one side of the pebble, which is usually thin and flattish, and some 4 to 10 cm across.
Interestingly, the GC-C-IRMS results indicate a strong focus on ruminant carcass processing, although the Samburu diet is not meat-based.
Charred residues: normally the result of accidental overcooking and can be preserved as discrete fragments or remain stuck to the cooking vessel.
The height above sea level of pertinent points on a context, such as the top and bottom of a wall are taken and added to plans sections and context sheets.
A simplistic example of the process might be that if one pottery-type had handles similar to those of a neighbouring type but decoration similar to a different neighbour, the idea for the two features might have diffused from the neighbours.
Footnotes External links The Natural History Museum Catalogue of Fossil Hominids University of Cologne Radio-Carbon context database entry for Antelias cave
Background Rescue archaeology occurs on sites about to be destroyed but, on occasion, may include in situ preservation of any finds or protective measures taken to preserve an unexcavated site beneath a building.
It is argued that this was superseded by the Gravettian with its Font Robert points and Noailles burins.
In archaeology where collagen can be poorly preserved, tooth root is embedded in an epoxy resin and dried in a vacuum chamber.
Development The European strategy would eventually make its way into Americanist archaeology during the late 19th century, but it would not be until the second decade of the 20th century that sequence and detail became a part and parcel of archaeology method.
Discovery Excavations by 1963 Arturo Palma di Cesnola of the Grotta del Cavallo ("Cave of the Horse") in southern Italy uncovered the first remains later called "Uluzzian".
Archaeologist can also sample randomly within a given area of land as another form of conducting surveys.
Hauser then sold a great number of so-called Micoque-wedges that he found in excavations in La Micoque (in Les Eyzies-de-Tayac-Sireuil, Dordogne, France) to museums and collectors.
The United States government continually passes legislation to protect archaeological materials and uphold ethical archaeological research.
Environmental considerations Cyclododecane is persistent in the environment, as it does not biodegrade easily.
in parallel transects) over parcels of the landscape in question, documenting archaeological data such as lithics, ceramics and/or building remains.
Aerial survey is a method of collecting geomatics or other imagery data using airplanes, helicopters, UAVs, balloons, or other aerial methods.
The same terms (Early, Middle, and Late Horizons) are sometimes used for the Mesoamerican chronology, though there the five stages defined by Gordon Willey and Philip Phillips in 1958 remain dominant, and the Formative stage, Classic stage, and Post-Classic stage cover approximately similar periods.
This wiggling often may be observed in some kinds of archaeological finds; in particular, in pieces of wood where a sufficient number of growth rings are discernible.
Hultzsch, a German epigraphist and Indologist renowned for understanding and deciphering the ancient inscriptions of Ashoka, as part of his 159th birthday celebrations.
The cave is primarily known for yielding a large number of lithic artifacts (approximately 450), as well as Neanderthal human remains.
The regional survey answer questions pertaining to the site's location, the size of the settlement, their types of buildings, and the age of the site.
This incremental structure has been reported in the dental cementum of marine and terrestrial mammals.
Henry Fairfield Osborn, president of the American Museum of Natural History and a palaeontologist rather than an archaeologist, was taken around the sites by leading excavators such as Hugo Obermaier.
Périgordian is a term for several distinct but related Upper Palaeolithic cultures which are thought by some archaeologists to represent a contiguous tradition.
His travels in Italy, Greece, and Turkey and the Middle East inspired his artistic vision and he began painting works in the Orientalist genre.
Oriented east-west, with the front facing east, it rests on a slope: the front is 29 m (95 ft) deep and the rear is 39 m (128 ft) deep.
noted that TL traps in calcite could be bleached by sunlight as well as heat, and in 1965 Shelkoplyas and Morozov were the first to use TL to date unheated sediments.
In these specific examples, they ground the dental calculus by use of mortar and pestle, and centrifuged the mixture containing the dental calculus as well as small amounts of Calgon in order to break the particles into a dispersed state.
In disciplines including forensic anthropology, bioarchaeology, osteoarchaeology, Paleontology and zooarchaeology Minimum number of individuals, or MNI, refers to the fewest possible number of people or animals in a skeletal assemblage.
She felt it was important that archaeologists travel and therefore left money to found the Dorothy Garrod Travel Fund.
Each excavated context is given a unique "context number" and is recorded by type on a context sheet and perhaps being drawn on a plan and/or a section.
The satellites can then make a 3D image of the area to show if there are any man-made structures beneath soil and vegetation that can not be seen by the naked eye.
De Geer and his co-workers and students made trips to other countries and continents to investigate varved sediments.
The analyses suggested that 70-80% of the ancestry of these individuals was from the population represented by Goyet Q116-1, associated with the Aurignacian culture of about 35,000 BP, from the Goyet Caves in modern Belgium.
The old wood effect or old wood problem is a pitfall that occurs in the archaeological technique of radiocarbon dating.
Perhaps precipitated by the most recent cold phase (the Würm glaciation) of the current ice age, the Baradostian was replaced by a local Epipaleolithic industry called the Zarzian culture.
In 2009, investigation of crop marks near Stonehenge revealed a variety of 6,000-year-old prehistoric subterranean structures.
However, there is no doubt that the Wheeler–Kenyon method was a key moment of innovation in archaeological methodology.
Thus, artifacts exposed to higher temperatures, for example by being at lower elevation, seem to hydrate faster.
LRJ peoples are thought to have been highly mobile, with the sparse number of bones with cut marks at Ilsenhöhle indicating that the cave was only briefly occupied during short visits.
An underground river has over time carved out the many galleries that contain countless stalactone, stalactite, and stalagmite speleothem formations of great beauty.
The order in which these events occurred and the reverse order they should have been excavated with would be demonstrated by the following Harris matrix.
Architectural stratigraphy is characterised by human intentionality, which is only seldom the case with below-ground strata.
Similarly, a ditch that silts up by neglect could represent the start of the end of the features function in the record.
The possibility that something (organic) was already in situ must always be considered, especially if the results appear suspiciously early.
(see Stratification (archeology) and Harris matrix) This is demonstrated in the gallery below of a hypothetical and abstract 5 step sequence of contexts.
It was through this system that the collections of archaeological museums at the University of Chicago, the University of Pennsylvania, and Harvard and Yale Universities were built up.
This leads to current anthropological thinking in which Oldowan tools were made by late Australopithecus and early Homo.
They also developed small arrow heads resembling those of Native Americans, but no bows have been found.
However, archaeological sections, while being useful and valuable, only ever present a slice or caricature of a sequence, and often underrepresent its complexity.
Therefore, use-wear studies regularly employ magnification up to 50x, while magnification beyond 50x is relegated to microwear analysis.
The excavations brought to light the evidence of human occupation associated with this wall art, of a material culture represented in jewelry, lamps, and tools in flint, in bone and horn and in ivory.
Welsh joined the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Philadelphia and began to study historic paints with Batcheler.
Archaeology Stratigraphy The cave contains a rich stratigraphic succession with a depth of 7 m (23 ft), that is deposited on top of an interglacial beach foundation.
(1933), La Micoque et ses diverses industries.- XVe Congrès International d'Anthropolo-gie et d'Archéologie Préhistorique (suite), Ve Session de l'Institut International d'Anthropologie; Paris 20-27 Septembre 1931; Librairie E.
A 2023 study found that the Aurignacians are closely related to the Gravettians, Solutreans and later Magdalenians.
In these instances a clear understanding of the direction of "UP" and site formation processes is essential.
Single context recording was initially developed by Ed Harris and Patrick Ottaway in 1976, from a suggestion by Laurence Keen.
Gallery See also Prehistoric Norfolk References Notes Bibliography External links "Lynford Quarry, Mundford, Norfolk".
In British archaeology a watching brief is a method of preserving archaeological remains by record in the face of development threat.
They conform to a very specific physical type, with large breasts, broad hips and prominent posteriors.
They are often small scale which leads to the magnification of any position errors in enlarging to match large scale maps.
The Bacho Kiro Cave (Bulgarian: пещера "Бачо Киро") is situated 5 km (3.1 mi) west of the town Dryanovo, Bulgaria, only 300 m (980 ft) away from the Dryanovo Monastery.
A bed is a single stratum that is lithologically distinguishable from other layers above and below it.
Cultural resource management is a branch of archaeology which attempts to protect archaeological sites from development and construction damage.
Both show signs of being specialized hunters who were likely dependent on the subsistence hunting of large herbivores.
Generic features are feature types that can come from a broad section in time of the archaeological record if not all of it.
These sediments are of significant scientific interest, as they were protected from glacial erosion that destroyed the region's soils and their archaeological content during the Last Glacial Maximum.
One of the horses, amongst six tiny mammoth and horse ivory figures found previously at Vogelherd, was sculpted as skillfully as any piece found throughout the Upper Paleolithic.
Block EgPN covers the west site of Calgary and has 766 sites-the most sites in a block in the country (This is old data - check with local authorities for up to date numbers).
Destructive human processes, such as agriculture and land development, may damage or destroy potential archaeological sites.
Lynford Quarry is the location of a well-preserved in-situ Middle Palaeolithic open-air archaeological site near Mundford, Norfolk.
In establishing the chronology of a site, a representative spread of dates is required before interpretation can be attempted.
For shipwrecks, particularly post-industrial age shipwrecks, pollution threats from wreck material may need to be investigated and recorded.
However, the overestimate lessens as fragmentation increases due to the inability to classify the bones.
The Prambanan Hindu temple complex was excavated and was partially reconstructed between 1911 and 1953, also reconstructed using the anastylosis method.
These changes all allowed for dating of pipes prior to the invention of dating formulas, and can still be used instead of the formulaic methods popularised today.
Types In the study of rock and sediment strata, geologists have recognized a number of different types of strata, including bed, flow, band, and key bed.
Copeland, Lorraine., "Natufian Sites in Lebanon" in Bar-Yosef and Valla (eds.) 1991, The Natufian Culture in the Levant, 27-42, 16, 1991.
Characteristics The length of the cave is 18 metres (59 ft), with a surface area of approximately 200 square metres (2,200 sq ft).
This may be relevant information to assess … … the impact of fluctuations in specific climatic conditions on growth.
Borden numbers have only been applied to archaeological sites that have been encountered and recorded, and are subject to survey and testing bias, as well as the rates of development in some areas.
This group is more closely related to ancient and modern peoples in the Middle East and the Caucasus than earlier European Cro-Magnons.
At one of the earliest known Aurignacian burials (layer 11), two pierced animal teeth were found and ordered into the distinct Bachokiran artifact assemblage.
Critics have pointed out that no continuous sequence of Périgordian occupation has yet been found, and that the tradition requires it to have co-existed separately from the Aurignacian industry rather than being differing industries that existed before and afterwards.
This can be contentious for curators and collection staff, involving a variety of ethical issues around the handling and destruction of objects, colonial acquisition and repatriation practices, and present-day social and political implications of research.
Marine magnetic surveys Magnetic surveys are extremely useful in the excavation and exploration of underwater archaeological sites.
In archaeology, map regression can help to locate features appearing only on earlier maps and to assign building phases.
They are not considered a very reliable source for dating a house, as instances of old houses being destroyed and rebuilt (with the old date stones intact) have been reported, or may in some cases be the date of a renovation or alteration.
Identification of ancient starch is fairly easily for the first three levels of classification, whilst the fourth level requires continued improvement in the description, classification, and identification of individual starch granules.
In an investigation yet based on nonhuman mammalian, Mina and Klevezal established in human teeth the considerable interest for archaeologists, anthropologists, and forensic pathologists.
He was followed by Antoine-Jean Saint-Martin in 1822 and Rasmus Christian Rask in 1823, who was the first to decipher the name Achaemenides and the consonants m and n.
Underwater archaeology now has a number of branches including, maritime archaeology: the scientifically based study of past human life, behaviors and cultures and their activities in, on, around and (lately) under the sea, estuaries and rivers.
However, it is necessary for libraries and archival institutions to assess their preservation priorities in consideration of social and cultural meaning in tandem with physical attributes and informational context.
Important parts of the collections of the British Museum, the Brooklyn Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art also came through partage.
The term denotes that a cut has removed material from the archaeological record or natural at the time of its creation, as opposed to a positive context, which adds material to the archaeological record.
In 1700 Thomas Hyde first called the inscriptions "cuneiform", but deemed that they were no more than decorative friezes.
The earliest forms of the Magdalenian are either known as the Archaic Magdalenian or the Badegoulian.
The heavy presence of cave hyena remains indicate that the cave was most likely intermittently shared between cave hyenas and hominins.
As the nature of hieroglyphs became clearer, detractors of this kind fell away, but the debate over how much Champollion owed to Young continues.
The names of the ancient owners of the parcels, Madame Bourdois and Monsieur Taillebourg, were conserved by Suzanne de Saint-Mathurin as names of the dug sectors.
Such information can be used to inform the decisions made by planners, developers and archaeologists about the necessity for, and nature of, any archaeological work in advance of new building.
Statistical filters may be designed to enhance features of interest (based on size, strength, orientation, or other criteria), or suppress obscuring modern or natural phenomena.
Cultures are usually defined from a range of different artefact types and are thought to be related to a distinct cultural tradition.
Primary fills A primary fill is the context that first appears in the sequence after the context representing the cut it "fills".
Discoveries The site, which dates to approximately 60,000 years ago, is believed to show evidence of hunting by Neanderthals (Homo neanderthalensis).
Prior evaluation through trial trenching can overcome these problems by having the archaeology examined and removed or preserved before groundworks commence.
The Rockshelter today After her death in 1991, Suzanne de Saint-Mathurin donated the site and her archives to the French state.
The idea of a distinctive Szeletian culture was advocated by the Czechoslovak archaeologist František Prošek (1922–1958).
In most systems, metal probes are inserted into the ground to obtain a reading of the local electrical resistance.
The ITRDB accepts all tree ring data with sufficient metadata to be uploaded, but its founding focus was on tree ring measurements intended for climatic studies.
China: Evidence of Levallois technology from the lithic assemblage of the Guanyindong Cave site in southwest China, dated to approximately 170,000–80,000 years ago, is presented by Hu et al.
Strata from widespread locations containing the same fossil fauna and flora are said to be correlatable in time.
In all it appears that there were two phases of occupation at Roc-aux-Sorciers, the first from the Middle Magdelenian around 15,000 years ago which was sealed by the collapse of the rockshelter roof, and a second occupation from the Upper Magdelenianaround 12,000-10,000 years ago.
The only human remains were two deciduous teeth (Cavallo B and Cavallo C) from the Uluzzian deposit of Grotta del Cavallo identified as human by (Benazzi et al., 2011).
The archaeological record can consist of the earliest ancient findings as well as contemporary artifacts.
Following the introduction of archaeology into the planning process in most western nations, the importance of gathering as much information as possible on a site without digging it up has grown.
100-μm, non-decalcified cross sections are prepared from the middle third of the root using a Low Speed Saw fitted with a diamond-coated blade.
The focus of early work was to set up organisations to undertake rescue excavations shortly before an area was disturbed by construction equipment.
The types of nails may have distinguishing characteristics, such as the date nail having raised digits and the "height nail" having incised digits.
Century of Color: Exterior Decoration for American Buildings, 1829–1920, American Life Foundation, Watkins Glen, New York, (1981) Phillips, Morgan W.
The hypothesis is challenged by large gaps in time between the Clovis culture and Solutrean eras, a lack of evidence of Solutrean seafaring, lack of specific Solutrean features and tools in Clovis technology, the difficulties of the route, and other issues.
Apparently an archaeological site was to be excavated using arbitrary levels and then the stratigraphy was drawn in the exposed sections and the two were to be correlated in some way.
Shanidar Cave in Iraqi Kurdistan, Warwasi rock-shelter, Kaldar Cave and Yafteh Cave in the western Zagros, and Eshkaft-e Gavi Cave in the southern Zagros was among the major sites to have been excavated.
It really stirs the pot." Egypt: Within the banks of the Nile River, excavations have located Levalloisean implements within the 30-, 15-, and 10-foot terraces.
Clearly recognizable layers of sediment (possibly created by hiatuses or fire horizons) allow an initial overview, and individual finds made in the process can be assigned to a specific layer in suitable cases.
Other uses One of the benefits of luminescence dating is that it can be used to confirm the authenticity of an artifact.
In a series of excavations between 1984 and 1985 Palaeolithic stone artifacts and Pleistocene faunal remains were uncovered.
Another possible measure to prevent vandalism is the addition of barriers, patrols, or even full-time observation and security.
Subsequently, the Dahlia was sent to the Antilles for stationary service, where she represented France, defended its interests and provided aid to the local population in the event of natural disasters.
Digital photography is now starting to become more widely used and is especially useful for the recording of historic building.
de, 1978, "Les 'Vénus' pariétales et mobilières du Magdalénien d’Angles-sur-l’Anglin", Antiquités Nationales, n° 10, pp.
An equally important concern is the nature of ancient ceramic production and its meaning in terms of the knowledge, skills, identity and traditions of potters.
Also, the replication of tool use requires comparable source material (for tool creation) as well as access to the material the tool was used on.
Additionally, early prehistoric tools were manufactured from natural materials, such as bone, stone and fiber; they do not stand out as clearly as metal, glass and plastic.
A variety of probe configurations are used, most having four probes, often mounted on a rigid frame.
demonstrated that modern Europeans can be modelled as an admixture of three ancestral populations; Ancient North Eurasians (ANE), Western Hunter-Gatherers (WHG), and Early European Farmers (EEF).
Revealing the sequence Single context recording of a stratigraphically excavated sequence evolves into an overlay of planned contexts that build a Harris matrix during excavation.
Early Oldowan tools are also known from Gona in Ethiopia (near the Awash River), and are dated to about 2.6 Ma.
In practice Contexts being excavated are recorded on context sheets which vary in style depending on practitioner but in general share characteristics.
Epigraphers usually take a long time (days to weeks) to post-process the generated estampages, as they try to decipher, analyze, transliterate and translate the inscribed text.
The sequence dating method allowed the relative date, if not the absolute date, of any given Predynastic Egypt site to be ascertained by examining the handles on pottery, general form of the piece, and the stratigraphic layer it was found in.
As the name implies, small finds tend to be small artifacts, and generally appear infrequently on sites.
Compared to other dating techniques, Nitrogen dating can be unreliable because leaching from bone is dependent on temperature, soil pH, ground water, and the presence of microorganism that digest nitrogen rich elements, like collagen.
This technic also suffers from the fact that the physiological and structural biological background of cementum is not well elucidated.
The artifacts, found preserved in soil under a later lava flow and dated at 325,000–335,000 years old, were a mix of two distinct stone tool technology traditions: bifacial tools and Levallois tools.
By linking styles of pottery with different time periods, he was able to establish the relative chronology of the site.
For example, discoveries at La Tène and Hallstatt led scholars to divide the European Iron Age into the La Tène culture and Hallstatt culture, named after their respective type sites.
According to Benazzi these results allow the support of the hypothesis that the Uluzzi culture is not to be attributed to Neanderthals but to modern humans.
The process can include resolving any differences in map scale, projection, datum, or format; and the interpretation of each map in its meaning and accuracy.
Terms used in aerial survey exposure station or air station the position of the optical center of the camera at the moment of exposure.
The OSL dosimeter's maximum equivalent dose measurement for x-ray and gamma ray photons is 1000 rem.
The Halfa core does, however, have a number of features which could lead to more generalized, yet effective, core types.
In archaeology, a typology is the result of the classification of things according to their physical characteristics.
Butts: A context "butts up to" or "abuts" another context when it was created later and contacts the other but in general does not have a vertical physical relationship "above".
The varved sediments exposed in these sites had formed in glaciolacustrine and glacimarine conditions in the Baltic basin as the last ice sheet retreated northwards.
A regularly updated list of published biomarkers is maintained by the University of York and can be found here.
Anyway, notwithstanding how there is a reasonable potential for break cycles to cause a biasing influence, zooarchaeologists truly don't have even the remotest hint about the level of this impact on the units used to evaluate cut-marks, or, on the butchery surmisings found utilizing these units.
The Uluzzian Culture is a transitional archaeological culture between the Middle Paleolithic and the Upper Paleolithic, found in Italy and Greece.
They are attached to various operations and numerous applications, that relate to: engineering, planning, management, transport/logistics, insurance, telecommunications, and business, as well as the natural sciences such as forestry, ecology, and Earth science.
It is used to determine an estimate of how many people or animals are present in a cluster of bones.
The contents are examined to determine the depths at which one might find cultural layers, and where one might expect to strike virgin soil.
Migration to new habitats, new dietary shifts (following the transition to agriculture) and building of large communities led to the exposure of humans to new conditions that ultimately resulted in biological adaptation.
Nitrogen dating is a form of relative dating which relies on the reliable breakdown and release of amino acids from bone samples to estimate the age of the object.
DNA from such samples is often subject to post-mortem nucleotide damage such as the hydrolytic deamination of cytosine (C) to uracil (U) residues.
Museum collections contain unique resources such as natural history specimens, which can be used for genome-scale examinations of species, their evolution, and their responses to environmental change.
Case studies Real-world case studies demonstrate the practical value of shadow marks in archaeological detection.
In other areas, such as southern Southwest Asia, there is currently no evidence for an overlap between modern human and Neanderthal populations.
Systematic survey or extensive survey is the archaeological technique of detailed examination of an area for the purpose of recording the location and significance of archaeological resources.
This method is efficient in storing the maximum amount of spoil in the minimum area, where there is no mechanised means of removing spoil a long distance from the site.
In Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya, but not in Morocco, the industry is succeeded by the Capsian industry, whose origins are unclear.
Researchers from the fields of sociology, psychology, and anthropology have also been fascinated by gift-giving, a universal phenomenon that holds emotional meaning using material culture.
Once all components of the radiation field are determined, the accumulated dose from the thermoluminescence measurements is divided by the dose accumulating each year, to obtain the years since the zeroing event.
In archaeology, the general meaning of horizon is a distinctive type of sediment, artefact, style, or other cultural trait that is found across a large geographical area from a limited time period.
Only the bell with the inscription "Bonne Mère Paimpol 1878" was found by Sylvie Quemere on January 15, 2012 at a depth of three meters on the beach of the harbor.
Some design styles were used for a very long time as the shape constructed was handy and no improvement or ornament was added.
In archaeology, spoil is the term used for the soil, dirt and rubble that results from an excavation, and discarded off site on spoil heaps.
Creation and re-creation: The origins and preservation of the Shinto Shrines at Ise, Japan and the Abbey Church of St.
Raoul Desribes also excavated the site and found numerous tools made of bone including two harpoons which are now in the Museum of Lebanese Prehistory.
Starch grain analysis can be helpful as a supplement to other forms of study to understanding tool use, agricultural activities, as well as other plant based subsistence strategies, and to reconstruct plant based diets throughout time.
For example, researchers have discovered that all strains of Yersinia pestis before 3600 years ago were lacking the ymt gene, which is essential for the pathogen to survive in the intestine of fleas.
See also Archaeological field survey Aerial archaeology Crop circle Shadow marks References Wilson, D.
Description Manot 1 is an adult individual represented by an almost complete skullcap (calvaria) very similar to those of modern humans.
Jerusalem A team of Israeli researchers have used muon imaging combined with Lidar to map underground structures in Jerusalem, Israel.
Evidence found in the Yafteh cave assemblages, revealed that the early phase of this culture was not as sophisticated as the evolved middle phase, and it produced blades and bladelets using soft hammer from single platform prismatic cores with plain platforms.
These take repeated measurements (often computer controlled) using different electrode spacings at multiple points along the extended line of electrodes.
Dated as approximately 315,000 years old in 2017, the finds were highly significant to the understanding of both the development of this technique and early humans.
As of 2016 the assemblage from both the 1905 excavation and the 1980s excavations is considered to be Mousterian.
Thus the least dense component, consisting of the starch grain particles is separated and a microscopic slide can be prepared.
Satellite archaeology Satellite archaeology is an emerging field of archaeology that uses high resolution satellites with thermal and infrared capabilities to pinpoint potential sites of interest in the earth around a meter or so in depth.
Rather fragmented and consequently hard to classify, morphological comparisons with Neanderthals did not produce definitively convincing results.
Admixture analysis has demonstrated that at least two independent gene flow events have occurred between ancestors of modern humans and archaic humans, such as Neanderthal and Denisovan populations, testifying the "leaky replacement" model of Eurasian human population history.
Varves form only in fresh or brackish water, because the high levels of salt in normal sea water coagulate the clay into coarse grains.
One method is to find the average temperatures in January and July by looking at the modern distribution of beetle species found on the site.
Since the 1970s, numerous geoglyphs have been discovered on deforested land in the Amazon rainforest, Brazil, leading to claims about Pre-Columbian civilizations.
Thomas was expected to describe the monuments and buildings that were discovered as well as to carry out quantity surveys, draw plans, prepare sketches and generally assist with documentation and drawings.
A good understanding of the archaeological context of the sample can be used to further refine the resolution of the species identification.
Methodically repeating the process across an area and noting the sound pattern will reveal the extent of the underground features.
The classification was devised before the development of more accurate dating methods, such as C-14 dating and oxygen isotope ratio cycles.
Some studies compare nitrogen dating results with dating results from methods like fluorine absorption dating to create more accurate estimates.
Renewed interest in the 19th century led to excavations at the site in the early and mid-20th century, and its eventual reconstruction between 1969 and 1975, using the anastylosis method.
By means of these rings, it may be possible to take a series of samples from one piece of wood, where we know that they were formed with a time distance of (for instance) five years between each sample.
Cloud shadows, uneven terrain, vegetation, and surface modifications—such as roads or ploughing—can all distort or obscure shadow patterns, making interpretation less reliable.
An example would be a Southern Pacific Railroad nail with the marking "01" stamped on the head of the nail.
Often the excavation site is large and rural, and can be worked on over the summer period for several weeks, with many groups arriving over the period for training.
Bohunician cores were created using a modified version of the Levallois technique and prominent tools from this industry include blade-end scrapers, burins, and Mousterian side scrapers and points.
Under the name Omphalodes linifolia, this plant has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
(2001) Armitage's Manual of Annuals, Biennials, and Half Hardy Perennials, illustrated Asha Kays and Chris Johnson.
As they grow in the mountains, they are much more cold hardy than some of the Oncocyclus section irises native to Israel-Palestine.
The species epithet manners-suttoniae was given by Mueller in honour of the wife of the Victorian Governor John Henry Manners-Sutton.
It consisted of 6 branches united into one trunk." It had a circumference of 25 m before its constituent trunks collapsed outward on 7 January 2016.
It is not well adapted to colder conditions and can experience significant winter kill in the Front Range region of Colorado.
Fremontodendron 'Ken Taylor' — golden flowers with a darker orange outside petals in the spring and summer, and grows to only 5 feet (1.5 m) in height by 8–10 feet (2.4–3.0 m) in width.
Distribution and habitat Myoporum parvifolium occurs in the south-west corner of New South Wales, and from the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia eastwards to Victoria.
Acacia peuce, commonly known as Birdsville wattle, waddy, waddi, or waddy-wood, is a tree species that is endemic to central Australia.
In North American habitat restoration, native violets are in high demand due to their relationship with the aforementioned fritillary butterflies.
The plant is native to the Cape Floristic Province of southwestern South Africa, where it grows at low elevations on fully exposed north-facing and northwest-facing slopes in association with other native grasses and forbs.
This gives the species an abundance of dried and dead leaves covering the stem; distinguishing it from the relatively leafless stem of Dudleya caespitosa.
Smaller populations are found in arid regions of the Pilbara in the Hamersley Range, in central parts of the Northern Territory and in south-western Queensland near Blackall.
Sphaeralcea incana, with the common names gray globemallow and soft globemallow, is a desert plant in the mallow family (Malvaceae).
Uses The tree is used by apiarists for honey production as the tree produces nectar in winter when few other plants are in flower.
It has clusters of four to eight flowers with petals 7–10 mm (0.28–0.39 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods 60–70 mm (2.4–2.8 in) long and 9–12 mm (0.35–0.47 in) wide.
This shrub grows through underground stems and is typically grown as ground cover or to stabilize soil on hills and requires low maintenance.
International use The Canadian city of Montreal has a Lancastrian rose in the top right hand corner of its flag, representing the city's historical English community.
It is the winner of the Award of Garden Merit from the California Horticultural Society in 1965, and received a First Class Certificate from the Royal Horticultural Society in 1967.
Several cultivars have been selected for flower color and plant form, for use in Mediterranean climate and other low-water-use gardens, including: Penstemon heterophyllus 'Electric Blue' — intense blue flowers.
In North America it occurs in the United States' southwestern states from southern California to central Texas, and south to southern Mexico.
The Clapton Nursery also known as Mackay's Clapton Nursery and later Low's Clapton Nursery was a plant nursery established in the early 19th century by John Bain Mackay in Upper Clapton, London, and noted for its introductions of Australian and South American plants into cultivation.
The species is cultivated as an ornamental and has become naturalized in many areas, including Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, and in southern and western parts of the United States.
Description Koeleria macrantha is a short, tuft-forming perennial bunchgrass, reaching heights from 20–70 centimetres (8–27+1⁄2 inches).
In Southeast Asia, rose water is the basis for a sweet, red-tinted cordial sometimes enhanced with screwpine (pandan) and/or spices called sirap mawar or sirap ros.
The fruits contain, often very numerous, bell-shaped, glossy black seeds, which are strongly humped.
Fremontodendron 'Dara's Gold' — golden flowers over a long period from late winter through early summer, grows 0.91 m (3 ft) in height by 1.8–2.4 m (6–8 ft) in width.
Notable specimens One of the few trees to survive the blast from the 6 August 1945 atomic bombing of Hiroshima Japan, was an E.
It has elliptic to inversely lanced–shaped leaves, pale green, up to 7 inches (18 cm) long and carried in whorls of 12–20 leaves.
It is also found scattered in the limestone areas of Crete (including the islands of Gavdos and Dia), also on Karpathos and occasionally on Rhodes and the Datça peninsula in Western Turkey.
Associated species in the overstorey include; Eucalyptus largiflorens and Eucalyptus coolabah while the understorey species include; Acacia stenophylla and Eremophila bignoniflora along with Muehlenbeckia florulenta.
Common names include bushy matgrass, bushy lippia, hierba negra, juanilama, pamporegano, poleo and pitiona.
It is a twisting, occasionally lying, herbaceous plant which is more or less densely hairy on the axial parts with backward-looking trichomes.
Streptocarpus faninii (not currently listed, could this perhaps be referring to Streptocarpus fanniniae?), is apparently noteworthy because of its contribution to many of the “more beautiful hybrids”.
Tree peonies have been in culture in China for millennia, and it is likely that hybrids came into being in gardens, where different wild tree peony species were planted closely together.
This includes allowing a good skin set before harvest, minimizing damage while harvesting, avoiding harvesting potatoes from wet areas that are more susceptible or likely to be diseased, and avoid harvesting in temperatures greater than 65 °F (18 °C).
During dry periods, parts above ground, such as leaves, will wither away but the plant will survive due to the tuber.
Cultivation It was introduced to the Royal Botanic Garden at Kew in 1774 by Nikolaus Joseph von Jacquin.
It is a low, spreading shrub with long, trailing stems and white, star-shaped flowers and is endemic to southern Australia including Flinders Island.
The berries are quite tart, so they are often cooked and sweetened before eating as lingonberry jam, compote, juice, smoothie or syrup.
The large flowers are lavender to deep blue-purple in color with protruding stamens tipped with white anthers.
Morphology Sporangiophores are an average of 373 (260-484) micrometers with the first branch appearing at 197 (120-271) micrometers.
The flowers are 14 cm long, funnel or trumpet shaped, white with yellow throat, flushed purple outside.
It was formerly the venue for the gàmmu, an annual festival during which the kingdom's provincial rulers pledged their loyalty to the king.
Description It is an evergreen shrub growing to a height of 3–4 m (rarely 10 m) tall, with a trunk diameter up to 20 cm.
He was also commissioned by Arabella, Duchess of Dorset to design a lakeside walk of shrubs and ornamental trees, complete with a boathouse, at Buckhurst Park, Sussex.
Taxonomy The genus was named after the Scottish-Canadian botanist William Fraser Tolmie, while the species name refers to Archibald Menzies, the Scottish naturalist for the Vancouver Expedition (1791–1795).
Growing to 100 cm (39 in) long, it is a straggling evergreen perennial with heart shaped, gray-green, downy leaves.
schlumbergeri E.Morren ex Mez (1892) - Bolivia, Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay Aechmea distichantha var.
That clade, originally given the informal name Telephium and later Hylotelephium, was given the taxonomic rank of tribe Telephieae.
The tree bears small white flowers, which on female trees turn into bunches of small berry type fruit, which attract birds who feed on the berries.
This plant can grow to more than 1 m (3.3 ft) tall and broad, with long narrow leaves up to 40 cm (16 in) in length.
It has been considered to be a carnivorous or protocarnivorous plant because it possesses glandular trichomes underneath the flowers that can trap and digest prey.
Chelmos in May 1984 by Arne Strid (from Denmark), it was first thought to be a form of Iris germanica.
The green-crowned brilliant hummingbird feeds at the large inflorescences of the Marcgravia polyadenia vines.
The variegation of the leaves arises from the distinct white veins contrasted with the dark green of the leaf.
Peak flowering times are winter to summer in New South Wales and October to March in South Australia and the fruit that follows are succulent, rounded, yellowish-white and up to 8.5 millimetres (0.3 in) in diameter.
It has clusters of six to fifteen flowers with petals 8–10 mm (0.31–0.39 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods about 70 mm (2.8 in) long and 15–25 mm (0.59–0.98 in) wide.
Strychnos pungens (English: spine-leaved monkey-orange, Afrikaans: Stekelblaarklapper) is a tree which belongs to the Loganiaceae.
Cultivation A number of geranium species are cultivated for horticultural use and for pharmaceutical products.
Varieties As of August 2024, Plants of the World Online accepted two varieties: Euonymus fortunei var.
Distribution and habitat The species is native to southern Europe from the western Mediterranean to southern Italy.
Flowers are small with anthers that sit outside the small tube created by the petals, typical of Curio species.
Crossosoma bigelovii, known by the common name ragged rockflower, is one of only a few species in the flowering plant family Crossosomataceae.
The young tips of the branches are used in traditional medicine to treat indigestion and stomach ulcers.
It is one of the most common trees on the Highveld and in the Bushveld in South Africa, but not found in the Lowveld.
Cultivation The species is cultivated in the specialty horticulture trade with limited availability as an ornamental plant: for natural landscaping, native plant, and habitat gardens; wildlife gardens; and restoration projects.
The species is reportedly naturalised in Florida, Chiapas, Central America, Queensland, and much of the West Indies.
Mistol leaves are oval shaped, alternate, entire, with three prominent basal veins, 2–7 cm long and slightly petiolated.
Lotus berthelotii is a flowering plant endemic to the Canary Islands of Spain, in the genus Lotus of the pea family Fabaceae.
It has also been found as an introduced species in Ontario, Canada and Hungary in the European Union.
Oomycetes have the ability to spread via zoospores whose multiple flagella require moisture in order to move.
sillamontana should be grown in a well lit position, although direct summer sun can cause burns, so gradual acclimatization is needed.
It was originally published as Iris cengialti but then re-classified as a subspecies of Iris pallida, and known as Iris pallida subsp.
Lilium humboldtii, or Humboldt's lily, is a species of lily native to the US state of California and the Mexican state of Baja California.
Uses The seed can be ground into a powder, which can then be boiled in water like a porridge or made into flour or bread.
A calcifuge, it requires acid pH soil, typically in a partially shaded setting such as dappled woodland.
Cultivation Sisyrinchium bellum prefers some moisture and good drainage, but will tolerate summer dryness.
The genus Anabasis belongs to the tribe Salsoleae s.s., in the subfamily Salsoloideae of the family Amaranthaceae (which includes the family Chenopodiaceae).
Its daisy-like inflorescence are yellow on a long stalk, 30-60 cm long, with scale-like bracts that are branched to the top into a loose corymb that hold 30 or more daisy-like heads.
African American arts This grass has historical importance in South Carolina, where it has been used for basket weaving.
Taxonomy Mirbelia speciosa was first formally described in 1825 by Augustin Pyramus de Candolle Augustin Pyramus de Candolle in his Prodromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis from an unpublished description by Franz Sieber.
Penstemon heterophyllus is a species of penstemon known by the common names bunchleaf penstemon, foothill penstemon, and foothill beardtongue.
An evergreen species, it provides food to deer and elk in winter and can make up a significant part of their diet.
One, located at the former slave market at the center of town, was replanted at the site of the original to which slaves were shackled.
It has been produced historically in West Texas and currently in Central Texas using the Dasylirion texanum species.
ocellatum - southern California, Baja California Both subspecies are on the California Native Plant Society Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants of California and described as "fairly endangered in California".
The flower is unusual in that the central trumpet (corona) is exceptionally large in relation to the outer section (perianth) consisting of tiny pointed segments.
Several of the common names of the plant come from the affinity of doves and wild turkeys for the seeds.
Black sage honey can only be made when specific rain conditions are met and the plant produces enough nectar.
Etymology Dasylirion is a compound word from the Greek, literally meaning 'dense' or 'shaggy' + 'lily'.
History of discovery and hybridisation The following is an adapted excerpt from the 1906 text "Hortus Veitchii": The first Streptocarpus to reach British gardens was Streptocarpus rexii.
Description The plant grows to 15–30 centimetres (6–12 in) tall and 40 cm (16 in) wide, forming a woody, evergreen subshrub with small and highly aromatic grey-green leaves, as well as clusters of purple or pink flowers in early summer.
Sporobolus heterolepis, commonly known as prairie dropseed, is a species of prairie grass native to the tallgrass and mixed grass prairies of central North America from Texas to southern Canada.
Cultivation Carpenteria californica is cultivated as an ornamental plant, grown for its lush foliage, large scented flowers and drought tolerance.
Distribution and habitat This mirbelia grows in heath, woodland and forest north from the Illawarra region in New South Wales to north Queensland.
Manchester City Football Club featured the red rose on the club badge from 1972 to 1997 and reinstated it in 2015, reflecting Manchester's history as part of Lancashire.
The seeds of buffalograss break their dormancy more readily with some damage to the outer layers of the seed.
Echeveria derenbergii, the painted-lady, is a species of flowering plant in the family Crassulaceae, endemic to eastern Oaxaca in Mexico.
The glossy, evergreen foliage forms a billowing mound, with many fragrant, pure white flowers in tight clusters for several weeks during spring and early summer.
cardinale plants collected in California: browniine; dehydrobrowniine; hetisine; dehydrohetisine and lycoctonine.
Each leaf is 8–12 centimetres (3.1–4.7 in) long, with leaflets that are 3–5 centimetres (1.2–2.0 in) long and 1.5–4 centimetres (0.6–1.6 in) wide.
In the case of Cassia brewsteri the leaflets are approximately 5 cm long, bright green, glossy or waxy above and whitish-green below.
Then in July 1936, in the 'Journal of The Royal Horticultural Society' Vol.61 Edition7, page 291 and the 'Bulletin of the American Iris Society' Vol.66 on page56 in September 1937.
Some botanical sources, such as the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service PLANTS database (PLANTS), continue to list the species as Mahonia repens.
The flowers are yellow-white to pinkish, decumbent, bell-shaped, and 4 to 5 mm (3⁄16 to 3⁄16 in) long.
Insects such as predatory wasps, hoverflies and lacewings feed on nectar as adults, while their larval forms are predatory and feed on garden pests.
It continues the work of Theodore Payne, an English horticulturist, gardener, landscape designer, and botanist.
Echeveria desmetiana, incorrectly known as Echeveria peacockii, is a succulent plant in the family Crassulaceae.
Its ability to seemingly regenerate after fires highlights its ability to withstand these fire-prone climates.
Pharmacological effects Calendula officinalis oil is still used medicinally as an anti-inflammatory and a remedy for healing wounds.
Ecology The shrub grows generally on alluvial plains, in California montane chaparral and woodlands and temperate coniferous forest habitats, among Tecate cypress (Cupressus forbesii) trees.
Virus taxonomy : classification and nomenclature of viruses : ninth report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.
Identification At the northern extent of its range, this species can overlap with Arctostaphylos osoensis.
Butterflies are attracted by most good nectar sources, though there are particular plants they seem to prefer.
Leaf spots tend to be tan to gray and are often the result of previous damage such as freeze injury, scorching or mechanical wounds.
Chemistry The Nicotine-related alkaloid Anabasine was named for the toxic Central Asiatic species Anabasis aphylla - from which it was first isolated by Orechoff and Menschikoff in the year 1931.
Almost invariably there are small pockets of hairs or acarodomatia, providing a refuge for mites in the axils of veins on the underside of the leaves.
The difference between the two lies in the lack of regular banding on the leaves of the Stromanthe, and the generally more rounded shape of the leaves in Ctenanthe.
The flowers are mostly arranged in leaf axils, the sepals are 6–8 mm (0.24–0.31 in) long, silky-hairy and joined at the base to form a tube with tapering teeth about as long as the tube.
Rosa gallica, the Gallic rose, French rose, or rose of Provins, is a species of flowering plant in the rose family, native to southern and central Europe eastwards to Turkey and the Caucasus.
Vaccinium ovalifolium (commonly known as Alaska blueberry, early blueberry, oval-leaf bilberry, oval-leaf blueberry, and oval-leaf huckleberry) is a plant in the heath family with three varieties, all of which grow in northerly regions (e.g.
It is closely related to the similar genus Philadelphus and is monotypic, being represented by the single species Carpenteria californica which is a flowering evergreen shrub native to the Sierra Nevada foothills in California.
The nursery's most successful rose cultivars include: ''Albéric Barbier' (1900), 'Paul Transon' (1901), 'Alexandre Girault' (1909), and 'Albertine'(1921).
Foliage is aromatic, but it has been noted that the scent is closer to that of oregano than to other kinds of lavender.
Delphinium cardinale is a species of larkspur known by the common names scarlet larkspur and cardinal larkspur.
The RHS Award of Garden Merit-winning cultivar 'Kiftsgate' was first noticed at Kiftsgate Court Gardens in the Cotswolds, but its origin is unknown.
Subspecies and cultivars There are several subspecies and cultivars, including: Otatea acuminata subsp.
Ehretia rigida (puzzle bush, also deurmekaarbos in Afrikaans = "confused/tangled bush"), is a small, multi-stemmed tree with a tangled growth habit belonging to the family Ehretiaceae.
Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWVI) is a plant pathogenic virus of the order Picornavirales, family Secoviridae, subfamily Comovirinae, genus Fabavirus.
Ribes echinellum, the Miccosukee gooseberry, is a very rare North American shrub in the currant family, native to the southeastern United States.
In European Russia, Ukraine, and Crimea it is typically found in dry grasslands (steppes), including on ancient burial mounds, where it grows association with other steppe plants.
Nakai - (Transverse ranges liveforever) The subspecies marcescens and ovatifolia are federally listed as threatened species of the United States.
In open areas, the crown is broad and rounded, with lower branches nearly touching the ground or forming a browse line.
The leaves are mildly incurved, ovate-lanceolate, and are packed – dense and numerous – within the rosette.
Medicinal Native tribes, most notably Kwakwaka'wakw, used parts of the plant for medicinal purposes, such as poultices and bark infusions.
The alcoholic drink sotol, the northern cousin to tequila and mezcal, is made from the fermented inner cores of the plant.
Taxonomy The plant was known to botanists, including Dioscorides (Διοσκουρίδης, 40 AD – 90 AD) in his De Materia Medica (Ancient Greek: Περὶ ὕλης ἰατρικῆς) as Telephion (Ancient Greek: Τηλεφιον).
Fremontodendron mexicanum Davidson — Mexican flannelbush Endemic to the central Peninsular Ranges, known from about ten occurrences in northern Baja California state and adjacent southern San Diego County, California.
Pieris japonica, the Japanese andromeda or Japanese pieris, is a species of flowering plant in the heath family Ericaceae.
Coimbra, Frutas silvestres comestibles de Santa Cruz, Editorial FAN, 2002, Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia.
Lilium hansonii, known as Hanson's lily and Japanese Turk's-cap lily, is an East Asian species of plants in the lily family.
The genus name Calendula is a modern Latin diminutive of calendae, meaning "little calendar", "little clock" or possibly "little weather-glass".
References External links Jepson Manual treatment: Eriogonum crocatum Eriogonum crocatum — U.C.Photo gallery
Erythronium japonicum, known as Asian fawn lily, Oriental fawn lily, Japanese fawn lily is a pink-flowered species trout lily, belonging to the Lily family and native to Japan, Korea, the Russian Far East (Sakhalin Island, Kuril Islands) and northeastern China (Jilin and Liaoning).
splendens), sometimes called treasure flower, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to coastal areas of southern Africa.
The berries are also popular as a wild picked fruit or fruit crop in Newfoundland and Labrador, where they are locally known as partridgeberries or redberries.
The main sinker root grows straight down to the water table; it may be up to 15 m (49 ft) long if the water table is that deep.
Later use The rose does not form any part of the insignia of the Duchy of Lancaster, but came to be seen as an emblem of the county of Lancashire, and as such was incorporated in the coats of arms of numerous Lancashire local authorities including the county council.
Common names include New Jersey tea, Jersey tea ceanothus, variations of red root (red-root; redroot), mountain sweet (mountain-sweet; mountainsweet), and wild snowball.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, and updated on 3 December 2004.
In Burkina Faso the dried powdered leaves are taken to treat malaria, while in Côte d’Ivoire and Togo the roots are used for this purpose.
Inflorescence is (despite the name of the species referring to a panicle) an umbel with as many as 100 flowers.
While dormant, they are quite difficult to kill, and they remain viable in dry debris for more than one year.
Monardella odoratissima (mountain coyote mint, mountain beebalm, mountain monardella or mountain pennyroyal) is a perennial flowering plant.
Distribution and habitat The tree inhabits dry to arid spiniferous forests in a rather broad area of southern South America which extends mainly through I to IV regions of Chile and central and northern Argentina and throughout highland Bolivia, though it is also found in Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay.
Salvia yangii, previously known as Perovskia atriplicifolia (), and commonly called Russian sage, is a flowering herbaceous perennial plant and subshrub.
It was one of the parents, along with Lilium pardalinum, that produced the Bellingham hybrid lilies, which eventually resulted in the popular 'Shuksan' and 'Star of Oregon' lilies.
In the traditional Swabian method the rose hips are cut open and stored until they are soft (that takes for about 5 days in a temperature of 12 °C (54 °F)).
It occurs over a wide range of habitat throughout the eastern part of South Africa, and in Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Mozambique.
Since 1991–1992, strawberry foliar nematode incidence numbers have been increasing in a variety of plants, but especially in strawberry and greenhouse plants such as Hosta.
Other former members of the genus are now classified in Erodium, including the plants known as filarees in North America.
menziesii (firewood banksia) have also been produced by artificial means, and presumed natural hybrids have been recorded.
However it reverts easily, so all normal offshoots need to be removed quickly to maintain the cristate form.
In 1978, Leslie Pedley nominated the specimens collected by Cunningham at Port Keats on the Cambridge Gulf as the lectotype.
Description Ballota nigra has a very strong characteristic smell reminiscent of mould or damp soil, and can be recognised by its clusters of hairy, reddish-purple flowers.
References External links Media related to Encephalartos ferox at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Encephalartos ferox at Wikispecies
The saguaro is remarkable for the scale and completeness of gene loss; essentially no traces of the 11 ndh genes remain in the plastid.
The stolons of blue morning glory create a thick mat over ground plants, reducing the light available for those plants.
graminifolium is endemic to Australia and is the Stylidium species with the widest distribution throughout Australia.
The plant quickly loses its desirable appearance with excessive watering, too dark a location, and an excess of nitrogen.
The leaves are up to 11 centimeters long with toothed, crinkly, oval or rounded blades borne on long petioles.
Habitat Typical habitat is in chert or shale talus at the edge of chaparral or within chaparral gaps.
Calendula flowers are sacred flowers in India and have been used to decorate the statues of Hindu deities since early times.
Young plants and coppice regrowth have oblong to round or elliptical, later egg-shaped leaves that are 60–300 mm (2.4–11.8 in) long, 70–130 mm (2.8–5.1 in) wide and petiolate.
White-winged doves are important pollinators, visiting blooms more often than any other bird species.
Uses It is useful in the garden as groundcover, where it can be short-lived, but is easily propagated from cuttings.
It is native to the Northern and Western Cape Provinces of South Africa, though it is now naturalized in France, Madeira and the Azores.
The plant is small, growing to 30–40 cm (12–16 in) tall by 15 cm (6 in) wide, with blue-green foliage and tiny white or off-white flowers in Spring and Summer.
– central and southern Europe, central and southwestern Asia Ajuga chasmophila P.H.Davis – Syria Ajuga ciliata Bunge – China, Korea, Japan Ajuga davisiana Kit Tan & Yildiz – Turkey Ajuga decaryana Danguy ex R.A.Clement – Madagascar Ajuga decumbens Thunb.
Introduced Range Campanula carpatica has also been introduced into areas outside of its natural range.
It is particularly vigorous, with clusters of scented flowers up to 45 centimetres (18 in) diameter, and tolerant of shade, a necessary attribute for a tree climber.
Geographer Al-Dimashqi wrote that his native Damascus exported rose water to much of the Arab world.
Description Parry's grama is annual grass that grows 20–60 cm (7.9–23.6 in) tall, although sometimes to 80 cm (31 in).
praecox, it has up to 20 poisonous, strap-like leaves per plant which are arching and are not leathery.
This bowing is temporary, only occurring during the egg laying period of species that use the plant as a host, such as goldenrod gall fly (Eurosta solidaginis) and the goldenrod bunch gall midge (Rhopalomyia solidaginis).
In 2021, Plant Delights' spring catalog featured President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, and a number of children reading sexually suggestive pages from a book held by Biden entitled "Kama Seedtra".
Carnivorous plant exhibits at the San Antonio Botanical Garden and the San Francisco Conservatory of Flowers have featured plants grown and provided by California Carnivores in their exhibits.
Gallery References External links Images of Actinidia kolomikta- Flavon's Secret Flower Garden Actinidia kolomikta Medicinal Plant Images Database (School of Chinese Medicine, Hong Kong Baptist University) (in Chinese) (in English)
alpinum is distributed only within the Daisetsu and Hidaka Mountains, both on the island of Hokkaido.
This plant is not known to be farmed, and has been harvested from wild colonies by poachers, but probably not by seekers of starch sources, but by wildflower enthusiasts or traffickers.
However, Croucher's plant is now regarded as a different species, Dudleya pulverulenta, so Moore's name is illegitimate for the species he described, and the correct name is Echeveria desmetiana.
To germinate, the seed must be scattered thinly on top of potting mix, as they require light to germinate.
Allium angulosum, the mouse garlic, is a species of garlic native to a wide region of central Europe and northern Asia, from France and Italy to Siberia and Kazakhstan.
Naturally occurring plants have been used as "sentinel plants" by avocado and citrus growers to help indicate areas that are free of frost and suitable for their orchards in Southern California.
It can be at risk from leaf spots, rot or botrytis, and could be attacked by thrips, sawfly, aphids, and slugs or snails.
It is extremely hardy, tolerating temperatures as low as −50 °F (−45 °C) or lower, but grows poorly where summers are hot.
The single umbrella-shaped leaves grow on an erect stem that usually stands 12–24 inches (300–610 mm), but with height varying with species.
Distribution There are 18 occurrences of the Arctostaphylos morroensis plant, and it is abundant in some local areas.
In some ways the appearance is similar to other low plants of the rose family such as Fragaria (strawberries) or Potentilla indica (Indian strawberry), but it lacks runners and has more rounded leaves.
Petrosedum rupestre is occasionally used as a salad leaf or herb in Europe, including the United Kingdom.
In early summer it produces racemes of up 10–14 small, nodding, fragrant, flowers with recurved tepals of a brilliant orange–yellow.
That patent has since expired and there have since been substantiated claims that this plant is not a hybrid or nursery-grown cultivar, but actually originated from seed collected from a wild plant in Brazil.
The cultivar 'Silver Queen', with white-margined leaves, has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Other peonies do not have perennial woody stems, but their stems die back after the growing season, to emerge again from buds just below the surface early in the following year.
Once eggs or nematodes are present in the soil, they are nearly impossible to eradicate because they can move laterally in the soil to escape non-optimal conditions.
There has not yet been cross-resistance between fluopicolide and mefenoxam, meaning these fungicides can be used rotationally to minimize the development of resistance.
Nemesia caerulea is a blue- to purple- flowered herbaceous perennial member of the family Scrophulariaceae.
The species may have been introduced to Britain by prehistoric people, where its habitat consists of rocky places near the coast in south-west England and Wales.
It can grow up to 1.2 m in height, and is abundant in terrains with good drainage in grainy soil and plenty of sun and prolonged dry climate.
Eriogonum crocatum, the Conejo buckwheat or saffron buckwheat, is a species of Eriogonum, or wild buckwheat.
The petals are 8–13 mm (0.31–0.51 in) long and bluish-purple, often with a yellowish mark near the base of the standard petal.
The leaves are arranged in opposite pairs, elliptic to elliptic-ovate, 2–6 cm long and 1–3 cm broad, with finely serrated margins.
It is present in the southwestern and central United States, found as far north as Wyoming, as west as Arizona and Utah, and as east as Texas and Nebraska.
Once the pod is mature, it will turn brown, dry off, and split open along the spiralled seams to release the seeds.
See also World's Largest Rosebush, Tombstone, Arizona Old Governor's Mansion (Prescott, Arizona), whose garden includes descendents of 1865-planted roses References External links Official website Media related to Sacred Heart complex (Tombstone, Arizona) at Wikimedia Commons
Description Phacelia minor is an annual herb producing a mostly unbranched erect stem 20 to 60 centimeters tall.
Ravensworth Nurseries became one of only two businesses to grow poinsettias commercially in the United Kingdom, producing around 18,000 plants in 2012.
More specimens were then collected on 8 May 2010 by Dionysios Mermygkas (a member of the Botanical Laboratory of the Goulandris Natural History Museum) on Mt Saitas.
Taxonomy Acacia holosericea was first formally described in 1832 by George Don in his book A General History of Dichlamydeous Plants from an unpublished manuscript by Allan Cunningham.
It is native to southeastern Europe, Turkey, the Transcaucasus, and Iran, and it has been introduced to Sweden.
A shrub with a very narrow distribution, it resembles Rosa dumalis and Rosa rubiginosa, but can be distinguished from them by careful examination of a suite of morphological traits.
Reproduction is easy by cuttings 5–8 cm long, rooted in sandy soil, or by dividing and transplanting the bush.
It is found naturally on the south-eastern coast of Africa where it has been used by local people for its starch content.
The Korean common name for the plant, 금낭화 (geum nang hwa) or "Gold bag flower", makes the same comparison between the shape of the flower and that of an old-fashioned drawstring purse as does the Chinese.
A white down is often present on the underside of the leaves; buds and stems may also develop a down.
The species is naturalised in northern Europe north of its native range, particularly in Scandinavia.
Taxonomy This species was first collected and identified by Thomas Nuttall, an English botanist and naturalist.
References External links Prairie Dropseed, plants & seeds from Prairie Nursery Prairie dropseed from Chicago Wilderness Magazine
Butterfly habitat Dudleya cymosa is the larval host plant for the Sonoran blue butterfly, Philotes sonorensis (Lycaenidae).
The flowers are grouped from two to seven at the end of the trunk; each flower 3 cm long, tubular, pale yellow, with five narrow lobes joined at the tip; flowering is in autumn and winter.
pringlei hybrid) 'Photograph' agm In history The Hungarian revolution of 31 October 1918, became known as the "Aster Revolution" due to protesters in Budapest wearing this flower.
Invasiveness It is considered an invasive species in some areas of the United States, primarily because of its ability to form dense and extensive mats along the forest floor, displacing native herbaceous and woody plant species.
This came after the previous edition of L'Illustration horticole erroneously contained the name Echeveria farinosa twice, once for Lindley's species, and the second for a plant from Joseph zu Salm-Reifferscheidt-Dyck.
It is a close relative of the new world Calliphysalis carpenteri (Carpenter's groundcherry) and a somewhat more distant relative to the members of the Physalis genus.
References External links California Native Plants Gallery: Malosma laurina, website of the Theodore Payne Foundation for Wildflowers & Native Plants.
The terminal branches bear 3 to 11 flowers on them, on pedicels that are 1–3 mm (0.039–0.118 in) long.
It has yellowish-green, glaucous, lanceolate or ensiform leaves, tall stem, green flushed with purple spathes, 2 short branches, 2–3 scented flowers, in shades of violet, blue-violet, deep purple, blue-purple, deep blue-purple, pale purple, deep blue, to mid-blue.
The leaves are rimmed by alternating paired and solitary teeth and come together to form an underground bulb-like base making the plant appear stemless.
Saintpaulia ("African violets", Gesneriaceae) nor Erythronium dens-canis ("dogtooth violets", Liliaceae) are related to Viola.
The specific epithet atriplicifolia means "with leaves like Atriplex", referring to its similarity to saltbush.
An evergreen tree reaching a height of 5 metres and a similar spread, it is drought resistant but only semi frost hardy.
Caputia tomentosa, known as the woolly senecio, cocoon-plant, and the matted caputia, is a perennial, succulent dwarf shrub of the Caputia genus that grows in the Cape Provinces of South Africa, usually between the 900 and 1200 meters elevation.
Ecology During winter in the Ozarks of Missouri, its twigs are sought as food by the local deer; and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), in particular, will browse C.
However, the habitat in which it is native is threatened in some regions by logging and other land uses.
The older bark is dark grey to black that becomes smooth, grey to coppery, pink, yellow or brown higher up.
Etymology The name Jostaberry was created by combining the German words for blackcurrant and gooseberry, namely Johannisbeere ("Jo") and Stachelbeere ("Sta").
It is found in open areas in chaparral, in dry ravines, on rocky slopes and ridgetops, between 60 and 1100 meters.
It features two rose "trees" planted in the 1880s by the Giacoma-Costella family at their property on Sixth Street, which was later donated to the church.
It is one of the few Aloes that naturally occur in fynbos habitats - along with the Fan Aloe and Aloiampelos commixta of Table Mountain.
The Mexican weeping bamboo, Otatea acuminata, is a clumping bamboo native to central and southern Mexico and Central America.
For infections to reach field scale, wind and rain conditions must provide adequate moisture for the polycyclic life cycle to occur.
Trifolium hybridum, alsike or Swedish clover, is a perennial which was introduced early in the 19th century and has now become naturalized in Britain.
Parodia ottonis, also known as Indian head cactus, is a species of flowering plant in the family Cactaceae.
Keeping grafting lines well above the soil line and adding a copper based fungicide also works to reduce rates of infection.
divaricatum (also termed spreading gooseberry, Worcesterberry, coastal black gooseberry or by other names).
Solidago altissima, the tall goldenrod or late goldenrod, is a North American species of goldenrod in the family Asteraceae which is widespread across much of Canada, the United States, and northern Mexico.
Iris × robusta, called the Windermere iris, is a hybrid species of flowering plant in the family Iridaceae.
Only eight of these survived World War II, and were eventually moved to the Erwin Baur Institute, which was founded in 1946.
In earlier times the fruits were pounded, water added and left to ferment, producing an evidently refreshing beer.
Description The grass-like plant is typically smaller than other Dasylirions, with small crowns and trunks usually less than 1.5 feet, with long foliage reaching 3–6 ft.
gallica and hybrids close in appearance are considered as a cultivar group, the Gallica Group roses.
Barbier developed this new rose variety by crossing Rosa 'lucieae', (a vigorous, trailing species from Japan known for its thick purplish-red canes and glossy, dark green, foliage), and hybrid tea roses.
Horticulture Gymea lilies are hardy and adaptable plants often used in landscape gardening, not only in the Sydney region but also in other coastal areas such as Brisbane and Perth.
Gallery See also List of plants known as lily References External links The Australasian Virtual Herbarium (AVH) – Occurrence data for Stypandra glauca Centre for Plant Biodiversity Research, Australian Government, Canberra.
Cultivation It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit, as has the white-flowered cultivar 'Alba'.
Description This species is an erect perennial herb with 5–40 cm (2–8 in) long narrow, grass-like leaves that appear from a basal rosette.
It is native to the Southeastern United States (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas).
Flowers open sequentially, with plants averaging four flowers open per day over a bloom period lasting a month.
It tends to grow in areas where temperatures vary from 0 to 50 °C (32 to 122 °F) and rainfall is anywhere from about 100–1,000 mm (3.9–39.4 in) per year.
It has green, falcate (sickle-shaped) leaves, that are very heavily ribbed, so much so that they appear corrugated or pleated.
& Struck, 1986, which was easily distinguished by its extremely small size, with tiny pink flowers and only a few tiny leaves, and which had a more northerly distribution in (northernmost) Western Cape and Northern Cape; as of 2012 it has been raised to species level as C.
Silene coronaria, the rose campion, is a species of flowering plant in the family Caryophyllaceae, native to Eurasia.
The hybrid developed whitefly resistance while still retaining traits of watermelon (Citrullus lanatus).
The leaves are distinctive, a glaucous blue-green to coppery or purplish, and covered with a waxy bloom; they are 5–10 cm long and have 5–9 leaflets.
Species Two species are accepted: Fremontodendron californicum (Torr.) Coville — Californian flannelbush Fremontodendron californicum subsp.
In 1999 James Travis Columbus published a paper recommending that Buchloe and several other small genera be combined with Bouteloua placing buffalograss with the grama grasses.
It is common in much of its range and fairly tolerant of landscapes which have been disturbed by humans.
A number of cultivars, often with purplish leaves, are grown in gardens as well as hybrids between this species and the related Hylotelephium spectabile (iceplant), especially the popular 'Herbstfreude' ('Autumn Joy').
Description Features 30 cm (12 in) long trailing stems and subglobose leaves that are dark green with purple stripes.
Other nomenclatural synonyms are Echinocactus ottonis (Lehm.) Link & Otto (1830), Malacocarpus ottonis (Lehm.) Britton & Rose (1922), Notocactus ottonis (Lehm.) A.Berger (1929) and Peronocactus ottonis (Lehm.) The following subspecies are distinguished: Parodia ottonis subsp.
The South Carolina populations were found in 1957 and 1981, and the first is protected at Steven's Creek Heritage Preserve.
Distribution and habitat Nodding blue lily is a widespread species growing on a variety of soils including sand, granite, shale, limestone and clay sometimes in woodland or mostly in dry forest.
Wildfire protection Koeleria macrantha has been implemented in several areas of frequent wildfires due to its fire-resistant qualities.
Cultivation A common cultivar is 'Lilac Wonder' (illustrated), often classified as a cultivar of the subspecies T.
Increased competition from the Common Market and rising heating costs necessitated a move into bedding plants and later pot plants such as poinsettias.
Worldwide, Vaccinium vitis-idaea is known by at least 25 other common English names, including: Distribution and habitat It is native to boreal forest and Arctic tundra throughout the Northern Hemisphere, including Eurasia and North America.
Uses Ragged rockflower is occasionally used as an ornamental plant in habitat gardens and natural landscaping.
The extinct Dacian language has left few traces, but in De Materia Medica by Pedanius Dioscorides, a plant called Strychnos alikakabos (Στρύχνος άλικακάβος) is discussed, which was called kykolis (or cycolis) by the Dacians.
Description Echeveria derenbergii is an evergreen perennial succulent, growing to 10 cm (4 in), with a dense basal rosette of pagoda-shaped, frosted, bristle-tipped, fleshy leaves.
History The Barbier nursery was founded by Albert Barbier (1845-1931) and his brother, Eugène, in Olivet, a village near Orleans, France.
Taxonomy The first description as Cactus ottonis by Johann Georg Christian Lehmann was published in 1827.
Cultivation The drought-tolerant and dramatic plant is cultivated by nurseries for use in personal gardens and larger xeriscape landscape projects in the Southwestern United States and California.
It was designed by Tucson architect Terry Atkinson in a modern Spanish Colonial architecture / Mission Revival architecture style.
Dasylirion acrotrichum, the great desert spoon and green sotol (also, spoon yucca, though not a true Yucca), is a plant native to the Chihuahuan Desert and other xeric habitats in northern and central Mexico.
Distribution and habitat The plant's native range is southern Europe to southwestern Asia and North Africa, including all countries bordering the Black, Adriatic, and Mediterranean Seas from Portugal to Egypt to Romania.
Cultivars Billbergia 'Bruantii' Billbergia 'Leopoldii' Billbergia 'Showboat' Billbergia 'Sunset' Billbergia 'Theodore L.
Formerly they were treated within the Sterculiaceae, tribe Fremontodendreae, together with the genus Chiranthodendron.
In California, it surrounds the entire San Joaquin Valley, the pacific coast ranges and the western foothills of the Sierra Nevadas.
Its untoothed leaves are 15–50 mm (0.6–2.0 in) long and 5–18 mm (0.2–0.7 in) wide, and are green to ashy gray, often tinged with purple.
Since then, molecular data has both questioned and confirmed the proposed phylogeny from Zohary and Heller.
Coelospermum reticulatum, commonly known as medicine bush, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rubiaceae native to New Guinea, the Northern Territory, and Queensland.
The linear green leaves have a mild onion flavor and are eaten raw, either alone, or in food combinations.
The pods are tightly and somewhat irregularly coiled, 2.5–4 mm (0.098–0.157 in) wide, thinly crusty to leathery and more or less glabrous, remaining as entangled clumps after the seeds have been released.
It is semi-deciduous, depending on the location and severity of drought, shallow rooted, and drought tolerant by leaf curling rather than drought-avoiding through leaf drop.
'Beau Narcisse' (Mielles pre-1824) 'Charles de Mills' (pre-1790) 'Duc de Guiche' (pre-1810) 'Duchesse de Montebello' (Laffay 1824) 'Président de Sèze' var.
The two to three leaves are up to 38 centimeters long and 4.5 centimeters wide, and are flat, narrow and lanceolate with a clear gloss upper surface.
Occurring in South Africa on the Witwatersrand, Magaliesberg and further north to northern Namibia, northern Botswana and Zimbabwe.
It has been reported from the states of Arizona, California, Nevada, Baja California, Chihuahua, and Sonora.
The leaves may be completely green or mottled and flecked with purple; they have an entire or deeply serrated edge depending on species.
The bisexual flowers are about 12 mm (0.47 in) long with 3 white or cream petals; they are held on pedicels about 10 mm (0.39 in) long.
Cultivation Ribes echinellum is cultivated in a few places outside its native areas, as far south as Hudson, Florida, but does not reproduce there.
– central and southern Europe, Caucasus; naturalized in North America Ajuga grandiflora Stapf – South Australia Ajuga incisia Maxim – Honshu Island in Japan Ajuga integrifolia Buch.-Ham.
It has smooth bark, lance-shaped or curved adult leaves, flower buds in groups of three or seven, white flowers and cup-shaped to cylindrical fruit.
In the UK, it is not hardy and needs protection of a frame or alpine house during the winter, or within a porch or conservatory (undamaged by the wind or the rain).
Plasmopara obducens is known from native species of Impatiens since the 1800s, but outbreaks on cultivated varieties of Impatiens walleriana started in 2003 in the United Kingdom and in 2004 in the United States.
As a consequence of livestock finding the plant relatively inedible, Dicerothamnus rhinocerotis has spread in heavily grazed areas and increased in numbers relative to other (more easily grazed) plants.
The leaves are widest at the base with a pointed end (mucronate), about 4–5 cm long, 2–3 cm wide and about 8 mm thick.
Cultivation Echeveria desmetiana is cultivated as an ornamental plant, and often used as a drought-tolerant groundcover "carpet plant".
The stem holds between 1 and 2, terminal (top of stem) flowers, in spring, blooming between late March and mid-April, or between March and May.
& Vaniot – Korea Ajuga flaccida Baker – Madagascar Ajuga forrestii Diels – China, Tibet, Nepal Ajuga genevensis L.
They are lustrous and leathery in texture and dark green in color while new growth is a conspicuous bronze or red eventually turning green.
Description Matted grama is forms dense mats and is a low growing annual, reaching no higher than 15 cm (5.9 in).
Low was a Scots horticulturalist who commenced work at the nursery after arriving in London in about 1823.
The foliage is toxic to animals, and the crushed plants, called shä'um by the Pomo people and kē-chil' wä-ē-mök' by the Yuki people, were used by both Native Americans and later immigrants as a fish toxin to stupefy fish and make them easy to catch.
Most other plants where it grows stop growing leaves during the summer dry season and focus their energies on their root systems.
The nursery propagated plant material sent by William Baxter from Australia and James Anderson from South America.
The pollination mechanism involving a sensitive "trigger"—a floral column, in which the stamen and style are fused—is unique to the family Stylidiaceae.
Description Leptosiphon androsaceus is an annual herb producing a hairy stem from 5–45 centimetres (2.0–17.7 in) long, often growing erect.
Known species: Endressia castellana Coincy Endressia pyrenaica (J.Gay ex DC.) J.Gay The genus name of Endressia is in honour of Philipp Anton Christoph Endress (1806–1831), a German botanist and plant collector, and it was published in Ann.
Fortune named the species after Beale in an issue of the Gardeners' Chronicle and was sure it was a distinct species, separate from Berberis japonica.
Specializing in the cultivation of carnivorous plants, CC is home to one of the largest collections of imported carnivorous plants in North America, and possibly the world, with more than 1,000 types of imported plant and dozen of varieties for sale in the retail section of the nursery.
Distribution Native Range Campanula carpatica is native to parts of Europe including the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia, Ukraine, Poland and Western Russia.
Shoots and stems reach a height of 30–40 cm, first erect, later prostrate and rooting at the soil surface.
Lee and Kennedy were two families of prominent Scottish nurserymen in partnership for three generations at the Vineyard Nursery in Hammersmith, west of London.
The Latin specific epithet of schachtii refers to Wilhelm Schacht (1903–2001), alpine gardener and plant collector for the Botanischer Garten München-Nymphenburg.
farinosa and Sedum spathulifolium are found at the harsh end of the promontory on isolated rocky crags in locations too steep, hard, and exposed for regular plants.
It is native to southern Europe (but adventive in more northern countries of Europe), north Africa and southwest Asia, where it is found on neglected, damp patches of land.
See also ADR rose List of Award of Garden Merit roses List of rose cultivars named after people Rose (colour) Rose garden Rose Hall of Fame Rose show Rose trial grounds References External links World Federation of Rose Societies Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
It is a very characteristic tree in local culture and folk because of its vivid visual presence, propagation, and ancient ethnomedical uses.
It produces many small flowers in shades of pink, blue and white (the Latin caerulea means "dark blue").
Owner CC is owned by horticulturist Peter D'Amato, carnivorous plant expert and author of The Savage Garden: Cultivating Carnivorous Plants.
Infected plants See: List of azalea diseases List of foliage plant diseases (Arecaceae) List of rhododendron diseases List of tea diseases == References ==
Rosa Setigera can also be differentiated from another native, Rose Carolina, by the fact that Carolina tends to grow lower to the ground and has larger flowers and rosehips.
The flowers are blue, purple or white and bloom from late spring to summer, followed by capsules filled with black seeds.
Threats are mainly anthropogenic in nature; the species suffers mainly from the destruction of its favoured habitats near streams and rivers due to road construction, river damming and habitat conversion.
Around the floret are a lemma and palea, each about 3.5 to 5.5 mm (0.14 to 0.22 in) long, though the palea is sometimes longer than the lemma.
Hybrids and cultivars Those marked agm have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
fortunei is highly invasive and damaging in the United States, causing the death of trees and forest in urban areas.
Etymology The genus name Haworthia honors the British botanist Adrian Hardy Haworth (1767–1833), while the species epitheton mucronata ("pointy") derives from Latin and refers to the pointed leaf-shape.
The leaf blade of the leaves is leathery, 25–75 mm or 1–3 in (and rarely 125 mm or 5 in) long, 2 to 5 millimetres wide, oblong spatulate to lanceolate, obtuse with a pointed base.
In the field of Food science, rose petal extract from Rosa gallica has been shown to have properties that reduce inflammation and wrinkling in human skin.
Today ten buildings built during the 1930s by Company 956 of the Civilian Conservation Corps remain at the site, together with landscaped grounds, a stone bridge, interpretive trails and a small arboretum.
Wild populations have been found in Michigan and Ontario, and it has been introduced into Great Britain.
In 1992 it was designated as a 'priority species' under Annex II of the Habitats Directive in the European Union, which means areas in which it occurs can be declared Special Areas of Conservation, if these areas belong to one of the number of habitats listed in Annex I of the directive.
The flowers have five petals and are coloured white, pink, purple, or blue, often with distinctive veining.
Gallery See also Agapanthus in New Zealand List of plants known as lily References External links PlantZAfrica.com - Agapanthus praecox
Description Gymea lilies have a rosette of large numbers of sword-shaped, strap like leaves 1–2.5 metres (3–8 ft) long and 10 centimetres (4 in) wide.
ovalifolium, Ericaceae) in Russian with photos Media related to Vaccinium ovalifolium at Wikimedia Commons
The fruit is a large and inflated capsule, growing from a compound ovary, and is composed of several united follicles, each containing numerous seeds.
Citrullus ecirrhosus, commonly known as Namib tsamma, is a species of perennial desert vine in the gourd family, Cucurbitaceae, and a relative of the widely consumed watermelon (Citrullus lanatus).
Etymology Echeveria is named after Atanasio Echeverría y Godoy, a botanical illustrator who contributed to Flora Mexicana.
Human uses The species is cultivated as an ornamental plant for the small, colorful blooms it produces.
Lippia alba is a species of flowering plant in the verbena family, Verbenaceae, that is native to southern Texas in the United States, Mexico, the Caribbean, Central America, and South America.
Eucalyptus microtheca, with many common names including desert box, coolibah, callaille, targoon, yathoo or coolabah, is a species of tree that is endemic to northern Australia.
The alkaloids present are dihydrosanguinarine, sanguinarine, scoulerine, cheilanthifoline, corydine, and protopine.
The three outer petals are 38 to 53 mm long and 9 to 18 mm wide, the three inner ones being the same length, but wider.
The leaves are a pale green to pinkish-green, shaped obovate to oblong-oblanceolate, and more or less thin.
Distribution and habitat The plant is endemic to California, primarily in the San Francisco Bay Area, and also in the California Coast Ranges of northern and central California, the Southern Sierra Nevada, and the Peninsular Ranges and Transverse Ranges of southern California.
Description Corymbia aparrerinja is a tree that typically grows to a height of 20 m (66 ft), often much less, and forms a lignotuber.
This includes the formerly successful metalaxyl, which is now widely ineffective due to resistance exhibited in the pathogen.
Other common names include dusty miller (which also refers to Centaurea cineraria and Jacobaea maritima), mullein-pink and bloody William.
The berries collected in the wild are a popular fruit in northern, central and eastern Europe, notably in the Nordic countries, the Baltic states, central and northern Europe.
Searsia lancea commonly known as karee (archaically karree), is an evergreen, frost hardy, drought resistant tree, which can reach up to 8 metres (26 ft) in height with a 5-metre (16 ft) spread.
Distribution and habitat It is native to western North America from British Columbia south to Baja California, and east as far as western Wyoming and New Mexico.
Infected bark may be covered in fungal fruiting structures giving the tissue a black sooty appearance.
The midrib is pale yellow in contrast to the green lamina and the lateral veins are parallel to each other.
Fremontodendron 'San Gabriel' — 3.0–5.5 m (10–18 ft) in height by 2.4–3.7 m (8–12 ft) in width, suitable for an espalier.
As most irises are diploid, having two sets of chromosomes, this can be used to identify hybrids and classification of groupings.
It occurs as a naturalised plant or garden escapee in Scotland, parts of Wales, Northern Ireland and northern and western parts of England.
Searsia leptodictya is known as mountain karee in English, bergkaree in Afrikaans, and mohlwehlwe in Sotho.
– Summer asphodel, also known as Common asphodel and Silver rod – Western Mediterranean (mainly Portugal and Spain) Asphodelus albus Mill.
Resting spores are globose with a diameter of 28 micrometers Disease symptoms Initially, leaves are stippled or yellowed.
As well as reproducing by seed, it also sends out underground stems which then sprout above the surface to create a thicket.
By maintaining a constant supply of nectar in areas adjacent to a field or vegetable garden throughout the growing season, farmers and gardeners ensure that their crops can be pollinated when they flower.
indica is the oomycete plant pathogen Albugo ipomoeae-panduratae, which have shown instances of infecting the plant.
When crop rotations are managed so that clover does not recur at intervals shorter than eight years, it grows with much of its pristine vigor.
The leathery and furry olive green leaves are up to 5 centimeters long and divided into several wide lobes.
graminifolium's attractive floral spikes could be of use in floriculture and could be used to replace purple loosestrife in winter and spring arrangements.
Barbier took over the management of Transon nurseries in 1872, before starting his own nursery with his brother Eugène in 1894.
Taxonomy Broad bean wilt virus 1 is one of two similar species (BBWV) of a total of seven in the genus Fabavirus, the other being Broad bean wilt virus 2.
The pipestem clematis can be distinguished from the similar (but much more widely ranging) virgin's bower by the fact that pipestems normally only have one flower on each stalk, and at most three, whereas the virgin's bower has multiple flowers on each stem.
Distribution It is found on the Pacific coast of North America, from the San Francisco Bay Area southwards into Baja California.
It also is related to a variety of similar species, including Euonymus theifolius, or Euonymus vagans and also a number of named "species" which are found only in cultivation and better treated as cultivars.
Educational programs for children include plant-animal relations, butterflies, and human uses of native plant materials.
References Sedum rupestre ‘Angelina’ Cristate forms in Crassulaceae family, Peter Lapshin External links Media related to Sedum rupestre at Wikimedia Commons
Cultivation Echeveria derenbergii is cultivated as an ornamental plant for rock gardens and as a potted plant.
The plant is known to tolerate high alkalinity, drought, high temperatures, sandy and stony soils, strongly sloped rooting surfaces, and to withstand sandblasting too.
It ranges from southeastern Mexico to Guatemala, Nicaragua, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, Bolivia, and northeastern Argentina.
The chañar is cold and drought deciduous; it loses its leaves in winter, and possibly in summer if conditions get too dry.
It is used as a flowering perennial for traditional flower beds, and in native plant, drought-tolerant, and habitat gardens and public landscapes.
Distribution This grass is fairly widespread and can be found across the western two thirds of the United States, much of southern Canada and parts of northern Mexico.
They are hairless to close-fitting, the outer three sepals are lanceolate to broadly lanceolate, and the inner two are narrowly lanceolate.
For some time afterward, the name was still applied to the southern California Lilium humboldtii subsp.
The short, blue green, or greyish, leaves can grow up to between 7 and 22 cm (3 and 9 in) long, and between 0.4 and 1 cm wide.
Mythology In Greek legend the asphodel is one of the most famous of the plants connected with the dead and the underworld.
Habitat In the USA, Erioneuron pilosum lives on well-drained soils atop limestone, sand, caliche in open rangelands including overgrazed ones, in pastures, and where the soil generally is poor in nutrients.
John of Gaunt's younger brother Edmund of Langley, 1st Duke of York (1341–1402), adopted the White rose of York as his heraldic badge.
Omphalodes linifolia), also known as Venus's navelwort, white-flower navelwort and petite bourrache, is an annual species of flowering plant native to the Iberian Peninsula and western France, but has naturalized elsewhere in Europe, North Africa, North America and Chile.
The rumor that it is used in wagashi, particularly in the confection called katakuri-rakugan is apocryphal, since historian Kahei Mori states that this confection, which used to be traditionally presented to Morioka Domain, was made from the starch of lily bulbs.
Like other species of Echeveria, it produces a colony of small offsets which can be separated from the parent plant.
Distribution and growing conditions Vachellia tortilis is widespread in Africa, being found in countries like Tunisia, Morocco, Uganda, Angola, Zimbabwe, Djibouti, and Botswana.
External links Treatment from the Jepson Manual - Clematis lasiantha Clematis lasiantha - Photographs @ CalPhotos Entry in the online Flora of North America; Clematis lasiantha
Etymology The genus name Erioneuron derives from the Greek erion, meaning "wool", and neuron, meaning "nerve." Thus "hairy-nerved," describing well the long-haired florets of the genus's species.
Etymology and names Telephium The name Telephium was thought to be named after a surgical term for an ulcer that was particularly difficult to cure.
The leaves are glossy dark green, small, 10–30 mm long and 10–17 mm broad, with a crenate (wavy) margin, sometimes spiny.
Due to the fact that it grows in scattered areas, it has not become a large dietary staple for much wildlife but still provides moderate nourishment to prairie wildlife.
It is abundant in the Ben Halls Gap and Barrington Tops National Parks, growing where it sometimes snows and where frosts are common in winter.
Description This species is found in sunny locations within deciduous forest and shrubland, usually in grassy clearings or roadsides.
Leaves measure 1 to 3 cm (0.39 to 1.18 in) in length and 0.9 to 2 cm (0.35 to 0.79 in) in width and are opposite or in threes.
It requires fire for seed germination, but with the nature reserve is near human settlements fire ecology is suppressed.
Its leaf substance has been traditionally used for burns, hemorrhoids and dysentery, gum inflammation, and as well as an eye drop for conjunctivitis and irritations.
There are four didynamous stamens, running parallel under the upper lip, with glabrous filaments and yellow anthers.
Range Parodia ottonis is common in southern Brazil, southern Paraguay, Uruguay, and northeastern Argentina.
Renosterbos is also relatively common in this area, unlike most plants associated with Renosterveld vegetation.
Dysosma grow as perennial, rhizomatous wildflowers on the damp and humus-rich floors of deciduous forests.
Distribution and habitat Allium paniculatum has been reported from every European country bordering on the Black and Mediterranean Seas, including the islands of Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily and Crete.
Description Jasmine can be either deciduous or evergreen, and can be erect, spreading, or climbing shrubs and vines.
Rosa rubrifolia), the red-leaved rose or redleaf rose, is a species of rose native to the mountains of central and southern Europe, from the Spanish Pyrenees east to Bulgaria, and north to Germany and Poland.
The presence of diterpenoid alkaloids, probably including the highly toxic methyllycaconitine, in above-ground parts of D.
It is typically made as a by-product during the distillation of rose petals to create rose oil for perfumes.
Cultivation Dicerothamnus rhinocerotis is cultivated as an ornamental plant for South African native plant, drought tolerant, and wildlife gardens.
cengialti by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 27 February 2002, and then updated on 1 December 2004.
Description Growth habit Philodendron xanadu is a perennial herb and forms dense clumps growing up to 5 feet (1.5 metres) tall and 5 ft (1.5 m) wide.
Tree peony is the vernacular name for the section Moutan of the plant genus Paeonia, or one of the species or cultivars belonging to this section.
– Uttarakhand, Nepal, northern India Ajuga campylantha Diels – Yunnan Ajuga campylanthoides C.Y.Wu & C.Chen – Tibet, central China Ajuga chamaecistus Ging.
Sempervivum tectorum, the common houseleek, is a species of flowering plant in the family Crassulaceae, native to the mountains of southern Europe, cultivated in the whole of Europe for its appearance and a Roman-era tradition claiming that it protects buildings against lightning strikes.
Species Species accepted within Ajuga include: Ajuga arabica P.H.Davis – Saudi Arabia Ajuga australis R.Br.
The two species can be separated by leaf structure: osoensis has heart-shaped leaves which seem to clasp the stem, while morroensis has more typical leaves with a small stem connecting the leaf to the main branch.
Proposed as a member of the Fabavirus group in 1987, its current taxonomic status was established in 2009 in the 9th report of the ICTV.
The leaves are frequently blue-gray to gray but range to light greens and yellows; the flowers are yellow.
Gallery Culture Like in nature, Caputia tomentosa needs well-drained sandy loams, rare water and full sun.
Flowering from March to October in the Northern Hemisphere, the flowers are however more numerous and larger in the spring.
Cultivation and uses It is grown as an ornamental plant in gardens, valued for its unusually large clusters of flowers compared to other roses, sometimes also for its size, and its ability to climb into trees.
The blue or white flowers are 4–8 mm (0.16–0.31 in) long and appear between the months of June and July.
It naturally occurs along the southern coast of South Africa, from Mossel Bay in the west, to Port Elizabeth in the east.
Ribes echinellum is a shrub up to 150 cm (5 feet) tall with spines at the nodes (places where the leaves are attached to the stem).
Table Mountain Table Mountain National Park References Gallery External links PlantZAfrica Treatment: Aloe succotrina (Fynbos aloe)
Krugiodendron ferreum, commonly known as the black ironwood or leadwood, is a species of tree in the family Rhamnaceae.
Throughout its life cycle, it produces aromatic flowers that attract pollinators, leading to reproductive success.
Distribution and habitat This plant is found growing in rock fissures between Prince Albert and the Great Karoo in South Africa.
The following cultivars and hybrids currently hold the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
conspicuus (pale yellow flowers) and 'Golden Bells', a vigorous cultivar with long-lasting deep yellow flowers.
Taxonomy The Latin specific epithet hellenica refers to 'hellenicus' coming from Greece, Grecian, Greek, Hellenic.
Flowers consist of 5 subequal membranous perianth segments, that are free nearly from base; 3-5 stamens without appendages; and an ovary with 2-3 thick and short stigmas.
Most locations only consist of a limited number of individuals, estimated at less than 1000 for the Ukrainian population.
The fruits that form afterward are cylindrical to barrel-shaped with a length of 0.8 to 1.7 cm (0.31 to 0.67 in) and a width of 0.4 to 0.8 cm (0.16 to 0.31 in) with a descending disc and three or four valves.
It was raised to species rank in 2000 by Alvarez and Fernandez Casas, and is accepted by The Plant List and the World Checklist, but the Royal Horticultural Society still consider it a be the subspecies (see Synonyms).
Cultivation Seedlings do best when gradually introduced to outdoor environment over the course of a week.
Different species hybridize easily, and this has been used in the development of the wide range of garden roses.
The tips of the stems, little stem attaching the leaf to the stems (petiole), the veins of the leaves, and the edges of the leaves, are a glowing reddish color all year long.
The pulp is white, succulent, and tender, with a creamy consistency, that is, it does not offer resistance to the passage of a spoon at the moment of consumption.
Amberboa moschata (common name sweetsultan) is a Southwest Asian species of plants in the family Asteraceae.
Cultivation Monardella macrantha is cultivated in by specialty plant nurseries and available as an ornamental plant for native plant, drought tolerant, natural landscape, and habitat gardens; and for ecological restoration projects.
robbiae (Turrill) Stace, known as Mrs Robb's bonnet, is grown as a garden plant, and has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
It is one of only three aloes and their relatives, with Aloiampelos commixta and Aloe maculata, that are indigenous to the city of Cape Town.
This allows dappled light to pass through the Mexican Weeping Bamboo, and the plant will sway gracefully in a gentle breeze.
This disease is most active in the moderate temperatures of spring, fall, and winter months, opposite of most other Phytophthora species.
Euphorbia amygdaloides, the wood spurge, is a species of flowering plant in the family Euphorbiaceae, native to woodland locations in Europe, Turkey and the Caucasus.
Some sources (especially archeological ones) refer to each of these as a separate species, but they are now united as A.
orientalis is highly regarded for being tough in sun and heat, long-flowering, and is a favourite for many councils in Australia for the landscaping of roads and other public areas which do not get watered.
The glumes are hairless, with lower glumes being 1.5–2.5 mm (0.059–0.098 in) long and upper glumes 3.5–5 mm (0.14–0.20 in) long.
Rhamnus pirifolia Greene Distribution and habitat Rhamnus crocea is native to Arizona, California, Nevada, and Oregon in the United States and to Northeastern and Northwestern Mexico and the Mexican Pacific Islands.
Taxonomy The species was originally mentioned without description by William Colenso, the name being given as Phormium forsterianum.
Populations exist in most of Central America, excepting parts of the Yucatán Peninsula, and extending to Panama.
Journal of Biogeography 31: 1945-1953 Vogel S (1954) Blütenbiologische Typen als Elemente der Sippengliederung.
Phormium cookianum, however, is still the preferred name in Aotearoa New Zealand according to Ngā Tipu Aotearoa and The Flora of New Zealand, as studies of the complex morphological and genetic variation as well as hybridization, and hence taxonomy, of the genus are still underway.
Bouteloua parryi, colloquially known as Parry's grama, is a grass species in the grama genus native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico.
In 2014, a new technique of in vitro plant tissue culture was carried out on Iris sari and Iris schachtii.
Oxypetalum coeruleum is a species of flowering plant, native to South America from southern Brazil to Uruguay.
The species was also introduced into North America where it has been recorded in the states of Connecticut and Michigan.
For instance, the species has been described as widely spread through the whole Euro-Mediterranean and Irano-Turanian areas, as well as in North Africa.
Habitat It grows on the limestone rocky mountain slopes and clearings, between clumps of Abies cephalonica (or Greek Fir) forest.
The original plant of Rosa filipes 'Kiftsgate' is said to be the largest rose in Britain, measuring 80 feet (24 m) × 90 feet (27 m) × 50 feet (15 m) high.
The clustered flowers are bright red to yellowish in color, sometimes exceeding 4 centimeters in length with narrow lobed mouths.
The plant either bears no stem and thus forms a rosette, or with age develops a stem up to 30 cm (12 in) tall.
Its flowers can be described as "rose-like" and tend to be single or in units of two or three, flowering in June to September.
Iberis is so named because many members of the genus come from the Iberian Peninsula in south west Europe.
Dyes Dye can be extracted from the flower and produce shades of honey, gold, orange, light brown, and vibrant yellow.
Taxonomy As of March 2024, Plants of the World Online accepted five subspecies: Rhamnus crocea subsp.
Cultivation Tradescantia sillamontana is almost as easy to grow as other species of the genus Tradescantia.
It grows specifically on slopes that face south or southeast, along creeks, gullies or sheltered plateaus and ridges, at elevations of 100–200 metres above sea level.
Description The foliage is firm narrow bladed leaves up to 40 inches (1.0 m) long, grasslike and 0.4 inches (1.0 cm) across, symmetrically radiating in a rosette, 6 feet (1.8 m) tall by the same in diameter, from a central core that elongates into decumbent trunks.
As trees mature the trunks and branches take on a sculptural quality with long longitudinal, irregular ridges and valleys.
It is superficially similar in appearance to boxwood (box), and is often used in similar situations, such as low hedging; but it can readily be distinguished from boxwood by its alternate, not opposite, leaf arrangement.
The plant can be found in all of the major coastal mountain ranges and the northern Sierra Nevada foothills.
It can also be found growing in Rea Botanical Garden Piedmont, in Italy, and in the alpine botanic garden of La Jaysinia in Samoëns, Haute Savoie, France.
It is native to Southern California and Baja California, where it grows in the Colorado Desert and the coastal and inland mountains of the Transverse-Peninsular Ranges, often in chaparral and areas recently burned.
Subsequently, in 1917, Edward Simmons at Miami's Plant Introduction Station successfully grew hybrids that survived a drop in temperature to 26.5 °F (−3.1 °C), showing atemoya's hardiness derived from one of its parents, the cherimoya.
It bears inflorescences in panicles that are 10–15 cm (3.9–5.9 in) long and usually have seven to twelve branches.
Haworthia mucronata is a species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, endemic to the Little Karoo region, in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.
Savenac was once one of the largest and oldest USDA Forest Service tree nurseries in the western United States, operating from 1907 until 1969.
Taxonomy The species was first described by Nicolaas Laurens Burman in 1768, as Mesembryanthemum bellidiforme.
External links Media related to Sisyrinchium bellum at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Sisyrinchium bellum at Wikispecies Jepson Manual Treatment - Sisyrinchium bellum USDA PLANTS: Sisyrinchium bellum Sisyrinchium bellum in the CalPhotos photo database, University of California, Berkeley
Its fruits have a distinct similarity to dog testicles, giving rise to the common name of dogs balls.
Brachychiton paradoxus, commonly known as the red-flowered kurrajong, is a small tree of the genus Brachychiton found in northern Australia.
So, instead of the common western phrase 'white as snow', what often appears in Hindu mythological stories is 'white as kunda'.
The result of infection by Peronospora conglomerata is scrunched up, yellow leaves that are reduced in size and are prone to falling off.
Rusanov of the Botanic Garden of the Uzbek Academy of Sciences in Uzbekistan (then part of the Soviet Union) in 1964.
The methanol extract shows in vivo activity against helminthiasis caused by Nippostrongylus species in rats.
Then the pulp is cooked and puréed, mixed with sugar in a one-to-one rate, cooked again and then filled hot in jars.
In parts of its range, western blue-eyed grass has previously been classified as Sisyrinchium eastwoodiae, S.
planifolia - native to the Channel Islands of California and the Transverse Ranges north of Los Angeles.
The leaves are discolourous with green papery upper surfaces and pale green to yellow pubescent lower surfaces.
Description Berberis bealei is a multi-stemmed, evergreen shrub or small tree with irregular, strong upright stems that have limited branching.
In 1904, it was rarely in cultivation in the UK, it is still fairly rare in cultivation in the west.
The cultivars 'Golden Gem' and ‘Fastigiata’ (Fastigiata Group) have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Haworth stated that he had received the plant, introduced eight years before, from the Stockwell Botanical Garden of his friend Benjamin Robertson.
It requires fire for seed germination, but as the nature reserve is near human settlements fire ecology is suppressed.
Taxonomy and former distribution The Hungarian lilac belongs to the genus Syringa, which is distributed across Eurasia, with its centre of diversity in East Asia.
Although currently in near-pristine and static condition, it is considered at risk due to a large number of threatening processes, including land clearing, landscape fragmentation, rising soil salinity, grazing pressure, competition with weeds, changes to the fire regime, rubbish dumping, and P.
Indigenous peoples of North America—including the Bear River Band, Karok, and Pomo tribes—found the plant and its fruit very useful.
dinarica, eritrichium nanum, euphorbia kerneri, geranium argenteum, leontodon berinii, lilium carniolicum, potentilla incana and thlaspi minimum.
Leaves are lanceolate, 10 to 13 cm (4 to 5 in) long and 2.5 cm (1 in) wide, almost always in whorls of three.
References External links NPIN−Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center: Sphaeralcea incana (Gray globemallow) Wildflower.org: Photos gallery for Gray globemallow
It has a number of cultivars, including 'Gerald Darby', 'Mountain Brook', 'Purple Fan' and 'Nutfield Blue'.
According to the research and development corporation AgriFutures Australia in 2020, the WA sandalwood industry provides about 40 per cent of the international sandalwood oil market.
This cultivar is visually very similar to Stromanthe sanguinea 'Triostar', and the two are often confused.
The leaves are stiff, pale green to bluish, narrowly lance-shaped, stem-clasping in an alternate, opposite arrangement, and are up to 200 millimetres long.
The flowers are borne on the ends of branchlets on a branched peduncle 10–60 mm (0.4–2.4 in) long, each branch of the peduncle with seven buds on pedicels 10–34 mm (0.4–1.3 in) long.
It is also widely cultivated in many places as an ornamental, and is reportedly naturalized in parts of China and North America.
Senecio hallianus, is a creeping succulent plant in the daisy family Asteraceae that is native to the Cape Provinces of South Africa.
A cultivar, which has a strikingly crisp, pure-white colour, is usually grown in gardens more than the direct species.
Many species, varieties, and hybrids, sometimes known as Michaelmas daisies for their late blooming, are popular as garden plants because of their attractive and colourful flowers.
federal government, it is listed by the California Native Plant Society as a plant of limited distribution which is fairly endangered and should be watched.
In the autumn, it produces large (30–70 cm long by 20–30 cm wide) effuse inflorescences (clusters on a stalk) of tiny red and purple spikelets (the type of flower seen in grasses).
They typically have heart-shaped or reniform (kidney-shaped) scalloped leaves, though a number have linear or palmate leaves.
Overwintering only occurs in dead plant tissues, and nematodes may successfully remain dormant in temperatures as low as 2 °C.
They are used in China both for medicine and as an ornamental, particularly the hybrids called Paeonia suffruticosa.
Colchicum boisseri is a plant species in the genus Colchicum (the autumn crocuses) native to southern Greece and south-western Turkey but cultivated elsewhere as an ornamental.
Cultivation Experiments done by Simmons, Jarret, Cantrell, and Amnon in 2019 introduced the hybridisation of Citrullus ecirrhosus and Citrullus lanatus developed a cultivated watermelon capable of resistance to pests such as whiteflies (Bemisia tabaci).
Description BBWV was first isolated from broad beans (Vicia faba) in Australia in 1947, and is transmitted by aphids.
The fragrant flowers, blooming May to July, are usually pink, occasionally white, and appear either singly or in groups, or panicles on stalks.
See also Thymol – Chemical compound found in plants including thyme References Bibliography External links Thymi herba, European Medicines Agency
Its preferred habitat is very humid in the summer and rainfall amounts can range from 1,000 mm to 1,250 mm per year.
Distribution This grass is native to Oregon and California, where it grows in many types of habitat, from mountain forests to open grassland at sea level.
A diagnostic feature is the two or more clear, whisker-like appendages arising from the end cell References External links USDA ARS Fungal Database
Extremely sweet, dark and thick, this is very similar to honey or vegetable molasses and is used in their place.
Bouteloua simplex, colloquially known as matted grama or mat grama, is a grass species in the grama genus native to much of the Americas.
The leaves are palmately compound with five to seven (sometimes up to nine) leaflets in mature trees, but seedlings and regenerating shoots may have simple leaves.
Distribution and habitat It is native to arid, rocky environments of northern Mexico, in Chihuahua and Sonora and in the southwestern United States, in the Sonoran Desert in Arizona, and also in New Mexico and western Texas.
Recent research has shown that wild populations have decreased dramatically, with no regeneration over the past 80 to 100 years where grazed by sheep and goats, and most current plants 100 to 200 years old.
Cultivation and Uses Croton setigerus is used as an ornamental plant; its low and rounded form fills a pot.
Cardamine lyrata, known commonly as Japanese cress and Chinese ivy, is a species of aquatic plant in the mustard family.
The species is found waterlogged flats, along the margins of swamps in the Kimberley region of Western Australia.
The scape is up to 25 cm (10 in) tall, round in cross-section but sometimes with wings toward the bottom.
Taxonomy In 1862, Erioneuron pilosum, under the basionym Uralepis pilosa, was first described by Samuel Botsford Buckley.
The next oldest is the larger one-story church building built in 1882, which allowed the first building to be used entirely as a rectory.
Description Purple grama is a perennial grass that grows to 80 cm (31 in) tall, with a dense rhizomatous base.
Despite its name, BBWV has a wide range of hosts including both monocotyledons and dicotyledons, but mainly the latter.
It is native to the Andalusia region of Spain, in particular the Comarca of Subbética (Córdoba) and the Sierra de las Nieves in the Serranía de Ronda (Málaga).
Fruit begins to mature with gradual color change from green to yellow and, if harvest is delayed, the fruit stalk will abscise and fruit will drop and bruise.
Successful over a wide range of climate and soil conditions, it has since become popular and widely planted.
The root contains astringent tannins and a number of peptide alkaloids, including ceanothine A-E, pandamine, zizyphine, scutianine, and the adouetines.
Clover was carried around the world as a crop by European colonists, and some clover species became invasive in some areas.
The babaco fruit is seedless and the smooth skin can be eaten, and is said to have tastes of strawberry, papaya, kiwi and pineapple.
Synecology Within the Anti Lebanon Mountains, it is found with other rare species including Thymus alfredae, Silene schlumbergeri, Alyssum subspinosum, Astragalus antilibani and Ferulago frigida.
Recommended greenhouse minimum temperature of 10 °C (50 °F) at night, 12 °C (54 °F) during the day, and 18 °C (64 °F) for fruit to ripen quickly and uniformly.
Distribution and threats The Hungarian lilac is endemic to the Carpathians of Transylvania and western Ukraine.
Dis caught her up./ And the old man went on there/ beating his mule with an asphodel." Alfred Tennyson: "Others in Elysian valleys dwell, Resting weary limbs at last on beds of asphodel." Orville E.
Cultivation Drought tolerant, it grows well in full sun and is sensitive to overwatering, where it will become mushy.
Aristida purpurea is a species of grass native to North America which is known by the common name purple three-awn.
Quite indifferent to the nature of the soil, it looks especially for the sun, its flower heads closing when it is in the shade or when the weather is overcast.
It spreads rapidly by underground rhizomes and can become invasive, though relatively easy to remove.
The leaves are ovate to oblong-elliptic, 9 to 30 millimetres (1⁄4 to 1+1⁄4 inches) long, and 4 to 16 mm (1⁄8 to 5⁄8 in) wide, with an entire margin.
Both forms were originally thought to be hybrids of desert willow and southern catalpa (Catalpa bignonioides).
The fragile, clear pink flowers are 2.5–4 cm in diameter, and are produced in clusters of two to five.
It grows in steppes and dry forests on moderately dry to fresh, slightly acidic to alkaline, sandy-loamy to loamy, nutrient-rich soils in sunny to light shady locations.
candelabrum is found in steep, inland to coastal canyons, on often north-facing or shaded cliffs, or on deeper soils than D.
Mature buds are club-shaped, oval or diamond-shaped, 4–8 mm (0.16–0.31 in) long and 3–5 mm (0.12–0.20 in) wide with a conical to rounded operculum.
Ecology The fruit of this species are eaten by birds, including the figbird (Sphecotheres vieilloti).
(Not to be confused with Murdannia nudiflora, which is often called doveweed.) It is native to most of the western United States and northwest Mexico.
It supplied garden centres and retailers across the United Kingdom as well as its own on-site sales.
Ecology Californian black sage grows in the coastal sage scrub and lower chaparral plant communities.
The tree is found in open arid plains that usually receive less than 150 millimetres (5.9 in) of rain per annum.
It is intricately divided into thorn-tipped branches lined with clusters of small, deciduous, gray-green leaves no longer than about 1.5 centimeters.
Cultivation Dasylirion texanum is cultivated in by specialty plant nurseries and available as an ornamental plant for native plant, drought tolerant, natural landscape, and habitat gardens; and for ecological restoration projects.
The flower buds are arranged in groups of seven on an unbranched peduncle 3–10 mm (0.12–0.39 in) long, the individual buds on pedicels 2–10 mm (0.079–0.394 in) long.
References External links Media related to Lippia alba at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Lippia alba at Wikispecies
Uses The katakuriko (片栗粉, "katakuri powder"), is a starch that bears the name of this plant, which originally refers to the starch from the E.
Removal involves cutting, followed by immediate application of concentrated glyphosate or triclopyr to the cut stems.
Taxonomy Established as a separate species by Zonneveld in 2008, based on Narcissus fernandesii var.
The corolla consist of a tube of about 6 mm and two lips; the upper one slightly concave (like a hood) and externally hairy; the lower one glabrous, with two minor lateral lobes and a major central bifid lobe.
The following cultivars have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit: 'Emerald Gaiety' 'Emerald 'n' Gold' 'Emerald Surprise' 'Kewensis' 'Wolong Ghost' Plants propagated from mature flowering stems (formerly sometimes named "f.
The basket weighed 5 long tons (5.1 tonnes), was 23 feet (7 metres) across and 9 feet (2.7 metres) high and contained 1,000 plants of one hundred different varieties.
Its bark is gray and shreddy and the tough, evergreen leaves are oval in shape and sometimes toothed.
ferox is found along the southern coast of Mozambique and in northern Natal and can be found very close to the ocean on white beach sand, often growing near other vegetation on the sand dunes.
Description This perennial is a fleshy, mat-forming, trailing succulent that is very similar in appearance to Curio radicans, but it has blue-grey leaves, whereas radicans has green leaves.
History Its first description was written by Adrian Hardy Haworth, in Miscellanea naturalia, 1803, p.
Habitat Rosa alexeenkoi is a perennial shrub that grows in full sun and in moderately acid to slightly alkaline soils.
Xylococcus is a monotypic genus of flowering plants in the heather family which contains the single species Xylococcus bicolor, commonly known as the mission manzanita.
rigens This variety is distinguished by its large 4- to 8-cm flower heads with yellow or orange rays, each with a basal eye-spot.
See also Flora of the California chaparral and woodlands List of California native plants References External links Calflora Database: Leptosiphon androsaceus Jepson Manual eFlora (TJM2) treatment of Leptosiphon androsaceus UC CalPhotos gallery: Leptosiphon androsaceus
Ctenanthe oppenheimiana, the giant bamburanta or never-never plant, is a species of flowering plant of family Marantaceae and is a native of Brazil.
Sisyrinchium bellum grows as a perennial plant in open places where there is some moisture, particularly grassy areas, though it can also be found in woodlands and at altitudes up to 2,400 metres (7,900 ft).
Jasminum fluminense (which is sometimes known by the inaccurate name "Brazilian Jasmine") and Jasminum dichotomum (Gold Coast Jasmine) are invasive species in Hawaii and Florida.
Lilium hansonii is named for Peter Hanson (1821–1887), a Danish–born American landscape artist who was an aficionado of tulips and also grew lilies.
Mazus surculosus, commonly known as suckering mazus, is a species of herbaceous perennial groundcover native to Bhutan, China, India, and Nepal.
Research has shown that the UV pigments of the Hypericum calycinum flower stave off predators such as mites and aphids.
The stem has an inflated, spathe (leave of the flower bud), which is 10 cm (4 in) long and 4 cm wide.
Following flowering the species will form long, flat pods with a papery texture, containing large, flat seeds.
It is most abundant in the shade of deciduous trees on moist but well-drained soils with pH of 6.7 to 7.4.
It looks similar to string of pearls and string of tears, but has larger and longer leaves that, in a bright setting, would deepen the purple tones.
Further reading Auricula and Primula Books Auricula Know How Books Amazon.co.uk External links Media related to Primula auricula at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Primula auricula at Wikispecies
The Conejo buckwheat flowers from April–August, bearing clusters of tiny bright, sulfur yellow flowers.
Overexpression of these genes enhance the tolerance of drought, high salinity, and low temperature in transgenic lines from Arabidopsis, rice, and tobacco.
Pollen grains of Alkekengi officinarum have been found in early Pleistocene sediments in Ludham east of Wroxham, East Anglia.
He consumed baobab juice twice a day while in Africa, and was convinced that it maintained his health.
This species of tree features in aboriginal Dreamtime stories and gained prominence with the wider public in the 20th century through the paintings of aboriginal artist Albert Namatjira.
In the Northern Territory it occurs on the Arnhem Plateau, Daly Basin, Ord Victoria Plain, Pine Creek and the Victoria Bonaparte biogeographic regions.
It was discovered by the Victorian plant collector Walter Davis (after whom it was named) near Arequipa in Peru and was first introduced to England in 1877.
Cultivation It can be used as a bonsai due to its treelike appearance and it bears a resemblance to the Jade plant.
Muhlenbergia sericea, synonym Muhlenbergia filipes, known as gulf hairawn muhly or sweetgrass, is a species of grass in the family Poaceae.
Etymology Jasminum is a Latinized form of the Arabic ياسمين yasemin, which refers to sweetly scented plants.
The tree is a larval host to the blinded sphinx, elegant sphinx, Lorquin's admiral, pale tiger swallowtail, small-eyed sphinx, spring azure, twin-spotted sphinx, and western tiger swallowtail.
Recent research on mice has shown that the alcoholic extracts from Hypericum calycinum have antidepressant effects and are comparably as effective as antidepressant drugs, such as desipramine and trimipramine.
The flowers are hirsute (hairy), cup-shaped, and brown-purple to green-yellow, terminating in three, long, gracefully curved lobes.
During the height of rose production, the Barbier nursery produced some of the most popular and best selling roses at the time, including 'Albertine', 'Alexandre Girault', and 'François Juranville'.
Jostaberry is frequently mistakenly termed Ribes × culverwelli as a result of this early F1 diploid hybrid.
Distribution When defined broadly to include Monardella villosa, the species is found in western Northern America, from British Columbia in the north via Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah, and Washington to Arizona, California and New Mexico in south.
Jasminum multiflorum, commonly known as star jasmine, is a species of jasmine in the family Oleaceae.
It is usually propagated from cuttings and has been used as a rootstock for more difficult related species such as Eremophila.
It was also verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 2 October 2014.
See also Herbal medicine Succulent plants Medicinal plants References External links Aloe buettneri in West African plants – A Photo Guide.
Narcissus serotinus is a autumn-flowering species of the genus Narcissus (daffodils) in the family Amaryllidaceae.
Its root system is thick with fibrous root hairs close to the surface, but with stout, burlish, woody roots that reach deep into the earth—root systems may grow very large in the wild, to compensate after repeated exposures to wildfires.
It is native to Southern California and northern Baja California, where it grows in coastal chaparral habitat.
velutina (Posp.) Patzak – Slovenia, Croatia; naturalised in Argentina Etymology The common name comes from the Old English words har, meaning "downy or hoary", and hune, meaning the plant itself.
Narcissus hispanicus, the Spanish daffodil, or great daffodil, is a plant species native to France, Spain and Portugal.
It is now widely cultivated throughout the temperate world, and numerous cultivars have been developed for garden use.
Hybridization The dwarf habit and erect flowers characteristic of this species were taken advantage of by John Seden, who rapidly evolved several garden forms, including a dwarf race of hybrids suitable for summer-bedding which became popular in Victorian England.
In the Sotho–Tswana languages, the names mosilabele in Southern Sotho, mokalabata in Northern Sotho and mosabele in Tswana are cognates.
Philodendron xanadu, synonym Thaumatophyllum xanadu, is a perennial plant belonging to the arum family Araceae.
paniculatum complex, many of which are now regarded as separate species within the section, including Allium dentiferum, A.
Senecio herreanus, which is also known as string of watermelons, string of beads, gooseberry plant and string of raindrops, is a flowering succulent plant in the daisy family Asteraceae that is native to Namibia.
The resin, known as sandarac, is used to make varnish and lacquer; it is particularly valued for preserving paintings.
The color of the flower helps determine the gender of the plant, being mostly white for males and purple-pink for females.
It was renamed 'Xanadu' by House Plants of Australia and released as their plant of the year in 1988.
The berries emerge by the beginning of winter and are blue or dark purple colored egg-shaped berries, up to 15 millimetres (5⁄8 in) long, that turn bluish black with a grayish bloom.
As a chaparral member species it must have a means of coping with wildfire, and it does so by resprouting from the base after its top has burned away.
It is a perennial plant native to the West Coast of North America, occurring in northern California, Oregon, Washington, British Columbia and southern Alaska.
The specific epithet (purpurascens) is derived from the Latin word purpureus meaning "purple" with the suffix -escens meaning "becoming" referring to the reddish-purple base of the midvein.
See also List of plants known as lily References Bibliography External links Dressler, S.; Schmidt, M.
The genus honours the botanist Georg Dionysius Ehret, a celebrated botanist and botanical illustrator of the 18th century.
Cassia brewsteri, commonly known as Brewster's cassia, Leichhardt bean, cassia pea and bean tree is a species of shrubs or small trees, of the plant family Fabaceae.
Distribution Purple grama is found between 3,500–7,000 ft (1,100–2,100 m) and prefers desert grasslands or dry rocky slopes.
Their long, unbarbed nature means that partially embedded spines can be easily removed, but their relative length can complicate injuries.
Depending on the use of mordants, the growing conditions of the plant, and whether the plant is subject to gall-inducing herbivores, colors range from bright yellow to deep olive green.
Its leaves are fleshy and glabrous, usually 18–40 millimetres (0.7–2 in) long, 3–6.5 millimetres (0.1–0.3 in) wide and egg-shaped with the narrower end towards the base.
The leaves are opposite, lanceolate, 4–10 cm (2–4 in) long and 1–2.5 cm (0.4–1.0 in) broad, glossy green above, blue-green to whitish and downy beneath.
In winter when it flowers (June to September) it produces a tall raceme, bearing shiny red flowers that are pollinated by sunbirds.
This poses a problem for development, as only a small number of companies can afford to develop drought-tolerant crops, and it is difficult for research institutions to sustain funding for this period of time.
Taxonomy Its closest relatives are Platycladus, Microbiota, and Calocedrus, with the closest resemblance to the latter.
References External links Calflora Database: Monardella macrantha (Hummingbird monardella, Red monardella) Jepson Manual eFlora (TJM2) treatment of Monardella macrantha USDA Plants Profile UC Photos gallery: Monardella macrantha
Originally described by Martin Vahl, its specific epithet is the Latin adjective ferreus ("iron-like").
Taxonomy The genus contains the following species, listed by scientific name and followed by the exemplar virus of the species: Structure Viruses in Fabavirus are non-enveloped, with icosahedral geometries, and T=pseudo3 symmetry.
kelloggii is cultivated in the specialty horticulture trade as an ornamental tree for native plant, drought-tolerant, water-conserving, and habitat gardens, and various types of municipal, commercial, and agency sustainable landscape and restoration projects.
Description It is a perennial growing to 80 centimetres (31 inches) tall by 45 cm (18 in) wide, with grey felted leaves and single, bright magenta flowers produced in succession around July.
The flowers, blooming in early summer, are most commonly different shades of blue, but can be white, pink, or pale purple, with 5 to 25 sepals.
The species was described in 1903 with Nathaniel Lord Britton and Joseph Nelson Rose's taxonomic revision of North American Crassulaceae, as part of the creation of the genus Dudleya.
Campanula carpatica, the tussock bellflower or Carpathian harebell, is a species of flowering plant in the family Campanulaceae.
Importance The pods and foliage, which grow prolifically on the tree, are used as fodder for desert grazing animals.
Distribution Jasminum multiflorum is native to India, Nepal, Bhutan, Laos, Burma, Thailand, and Vietnam.
The small plant is better suited as a container specimen than its cousin the papaya, which needs constant moisture and high temperatures to survive.
Dysosma is recognised by other authorities as including only those Podophyllum species which originate in China.
longispathus on the World Checklist, its species rank was confirmed by Zonneveld on the basis of DNA content (30 vs.
Effective specific chemical controls include foliar applications of Fosetyl-Al and soil applications of metalaxyl.
From the median part to the apex of the fruit the carpels are smooth, larger, with irregular contours but well welded.
The Latin specific epithet perrieri refers to Eugène Pierre Perrier de la Bâthie, (1825–1916), Baron E.
History Proposed in 1987, as the Fabavirus group, it was originally unassigned but given genus status in 1993 as a member of the Comoviridae, of the Picornavirales in 2008, and reached its current taxonomic status in 2009.
Some of the chemicals isolated are utilised in medicinal and food products and others are alternatives to insecticide agents.
It attracts bees, hummingbirds, and butterflies, and contributes color to gardens—both the blue of its late-season flowers, and the silvery colors of its winter stalks.
Similar species are: Leptosiphon latisectus, endemic to the Outer Northern California Coast Ranges; and Leptosiphon rosaceus, endemic to Central Coast and Bay Area shorelines.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, then updated on 3 December 2004.
Similar species The closely related Vinca major is similar, but larger in all parts, and also has relatively broader leaves with a hairy margin.
Bedding plants In 2005 in the United States, Viola cultivars (including pansies) were one of the top three bedding plant crops and 111 million dollars' worth of flats of Viola were produced for the bedding flower market.
Natural hybrids have been found in Venezuela and chance hybrids were noted in adjacent sugar apple and cherimoya groves in Palestine during the 1930s and 1940s.
It may also exist in Ventura County and areas on the south coast below Los Angeles County, California.
It is a member of the Lamiaceae, or mint family, but like other Lepechinia, the flowers are borne in racemes instead of in mintlike whorls.
Fremontodendron mexicanum is a rare species of shrub in the mallow family known by the common names Mexican flannelbush, Mexican fremontia, and Southern flannelbush, that is endemic to the central Peninsular Ranges in Mexico and the United States.
Description Typical air-dry samples have densities of approximately 1.30 g/cm3, and up to 1.42 g/cm3.
Pastoralists used the tree to make highly durable and termite-resistant fenceposts and stockyards from the timber.
It is well suited to the climate and soil in Southern California, and can be successfully grown and propagated with minimal effort.
In 2013, 3 Oncocyclus irises (in the Middle East) were thought to be extinct; Iris antilibanotica, Iris damascena in Syria and Iris westii in Lebanon.
The complex green-yellow inflorescence (cyathium), typical of Euphorbia, appears in late spring and early summer.
Muthill, c.1721–1782) was gardener to Lord Wilmington at Chiswick, and had a nursery called "The Vineyard" at Hammersmith.
Cultivation It has hybridized with the introduced European Prunus avium in the Puget Sound area; the hybrid has been named Prunus × pugetensis.
Conservation status in the United States It is listed endangered in Connecticut, Illinois, and Maine, as threatened in New Hampshire, as a special concern in Massachusetts, and as rare in Indiana.
Ecology It can typically be found in sandy habitats, well-drained upland forests, wooded slopes, oak-pine woods, old-growth forests, and similar mesic habitats and woodlands.
Some plants are avoided by some beekeepers (and sought out by others) due to substances found in the nectar.
While the hybrid did not offer total resistance, it was better protected than regular grown watermelons.
Sweetgrass is neither shade tolerant or drought tolerant, but it is fire tolerant and salt-tolerant.
This is not considered to be a good graze for livestock because the awns are sharp and the protein content of the grass is low.
Cultivation Tolmiea menziesii is commonly cultivated as an ornamental plant, for use as a house plant or planted as a groundcover in gardens.
The flowers mature to small (6–8 mm (0.24–0.31 in) in diameter) capsules bearing the seeds of the plant, which are dispersed by the wind.
The drooping, blue flowers are borne in clusters at the end of stems, about 14 mm (0.55 in) long, about 20–30 mm (0.79–1.18 in) across, each petal about 15 mm (0.59 in) long, prominent yellow anthers, pedicel thread-like and curved.
Citations References Books Reports Articles Websites External links USDA Plants Profile Photo gallery
Allium neapolitanum is a bulbous herbaceous perennial plant in the onion subfamily within the Amaryllis family.
Prunus cercocarpifolia is a species of Prunus found in the Chihuahuan Desert, in the south of the Mexican state of Coahuila.
It is closely related to Sedum dendroideum and would look similar to it, but 'dendroideum' can be differentiated by the existence of a line of subepidermal glands on its margins near the leaf tips.
The nursery corresponded with Sir William Hooker and supplied the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew with seed and cuttings.
Uses Food Indigenous peoples of the region pit-bake the crowns to dry and pound them into flour in order to make bread.
Other TFs TFs such as NAC (composed of NAM, ATAF, and CUC), are also related to drought response in Arabidopsis and rice.
Phytophthora erythroseptica—also known as pink rot along with several other species of Phytophthora—is a plant pathogen.
It goes by the name "melati putih" and is used in wedding ceremonies for ethnic Indonesians, especially on the island of Java.
Geitonogamous self-pollination must therefore occur more often in this species than cross-pollination.
The genus is native to temperate Europe (mostly the south of Europe), the Mediterranean, Africa, the Middle East, and the Indian subcontinent, and some species have been introduced to, and are now naturalized in, other places such as New Zealand, Australia, Mexico and southwestern United States.
Culture In 1993, it was used as a postage stamp in Azerbaijan, with a series of other flowers, including Iris reticulata, Tulipa persica, Puschkinia scilloides, Iris elegantissima and Tulipa florenskyii.
An early propagator in Boston found all his pots of the newly introduced plant bitten to stubs in his greenhouse, before his cat was discovered to be the culprit.
Description It has dark green, variegated leaves 2–7 cm (0.8–2.8 in) in length, and 6–26 mm (0.2–1.0 in) in width.
Flower The flowers of most species have five petals, with the exception of Rosa omeiensis and Rosa sericea, which usually have only four.
As an ornamental plant it is a spring-blooming favourite, often seen cascading over rocks and walls, or used as groundcover.
telephium - Central & East Europe, E Asia Distribution and habitat The species is endemic from Europe to Asia, but has been widely introduced elsewhere, particularly N America.
It is native to Northeast China and the Korean peninsula; however, it has been introduced by humans into a larger area of Northeast Asia, including parts of Siberia, Russia and Japan.
Description Eriogonum crocatum is a perennial shrub less than 0.5 metres (1.6 ft) high by 0.5–1 metre (1.6–3.3 ft) wide.
Aechmea distichantha, the Brazilian vaseplant, or vase plant, is a bromeliad typical of Cerrado vegetation in Brazil, which is also native to northern Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay.
It was once thought that the original pollinators of these plants (and other genera such as Isoplexis and Canarina) were sunbirds which had become extinct on the Canary Islands, explaining why they are rare and considered endangered species (Vogel 1954; Vogel et al.
Description This tall larkspur grows on an erect stem which often exceeds two meters (~6 ft.) in height.
Toxicity Cats Lilium regale, like many in the genus, is toxic to cats, with ingestion causing potentially fatal renal failure.
Savenac once produced over 12 million seedlings annually for use in reforestation of national forests throughout the United States.
"The involvement of Narcissus hispanicus Gouan in the origin of Narcissus bujei and of cultivated trumpet daffodils (Amaryllidaceae)".
Most named cultivars tend to only be available in Germany, and the names of the three most common jostaberry cultivars have also been confused, and all have sometimes been sold as ‘Josta’.
Resembling the propellers of a plane, its fleshy and flat blue-green leaves have purple borders and are flat where they change direction and never face the sun.
The New World species have now been reclassified in the genera Almutaster, Canadanthus, Doellingeria, Eucephalus, Eurybia, Ionactis, Oligoneuron, Oreostemma, Sericocarpus and Symphyotrichum, though all are treated within the same tribe, Astereae.
Bouteloua radicosa, colloquially known as purple grama, is a grass species in the grama genus native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico.
The jostaberry (Ribes × nidigrolaria) is a complex-cross fruit bush in the genus Ribes, involving three original species: the blackcurrant R.
Due to the costs of producing seeds with an appendage to attract ants, it is more energetically favorable for the plant to reproduce rhizomatously.
A plucked stem or leaf can be stuck into warm, not-too-dry earth, where it will root without special attention.
Geraniums are eaten by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including brown-tail, ghost moth, and mouse moth.
However, Jostaberry is a F2 fertile amphipolyploid hybrid of complex parentage, not a direct cross, and was created later in Germany.
Sedum praealtum, also known as shrubby stonecrop or green cockscomb is a small, woody succulent shrub in the stonecrop family that is native to Mexico.
See also Royal Badges of England Wars of the Roses White Rose of York Tudor rose References External links Lancashire villages homepage concerning the rose Archived 4 October 2017 at the Wayback Machine 55th (West Lancashire) Territorial
This in turn suggests that the Carpathians served as a glacial refugium for plant species during the LGM.
With a minimum temperature range of 3–5 °C (37–41 °F), it can be grown outdoors in a frost-free, sheltered environment.
Lewis Kennedy arranged for the appointment by Bryan Salvin of his brother John Kennedy (1719-90) as gardener on £30 a year plus accommodation at Croxdale Hall in County Durham.
Spikelets up to 15 mm long (~⅝ inch) and containing up to 20 florets (usually about half that) are arranged in oval, compact panicles or racemes up to 6 cm long (~2⅓ inches).
Etymology First collected in Anhui, China by Robert Fortune, the plants were taken to Shanghai, where they were planted in the garden of Mr.
Cultivation Eriogonum crocatum has entered limited cultivation in native plant gardens and xeriscaping.
The plant displays hybrid vigor, growing and fruiting well and being resistant to a number of common diseases afflicting other Ribes.
Adjacent to the 1882 building was a separate bell tower with a 610-pound bell, added in 1883; this was destroyed in 1946 with the bell eventually placed in 2000 above the rear of the new main building.
bulbocodium) Cultivation Narcissus bulbocodium is widely planted in gardens, and can be naturalised in grass.
Uses The grass is cultivated as an ornamental plant in gardens because of its attractive bunchgrass form.
Dasylirion texanum, the Texas sotol and sotol, is a monocot flowering plant native to central and southwestern Texas and in Coahuila state of northeastern Mexico, including the Chihuahuan Desert.
Plant Delights Nursery is a mail order plant nursery based in Raleigh, North Carolina, specializing in herbaceous perennials, and owned by Tony Avent and partner Anita Avent.
Begonia davisii is a plant in the begonia family, Begoniaceae, which was used in the early days of breeding Begonia × tuberhybrida cultivars.
In these situations, plants adapt by responding accordingly, minimizing water loss and maximizing water uptake.
The sweetly-scented flowers are 3–7 cm (1–3 in) across with five to eight pure white petals and a cluster of yellow stamens.
Uses Wharariki is a taonga (sacred, treasure) species to Māori and numerous traditional cultivars have been used for various purposes.
It is often used in hand held tools, carriage wheels and less frequently to produce slow burning coal.
Applying the generic common name trout lily may be somewhat of a misnomer, because in the Japanese species, the individual plant may or may not exhibit the flecked dark markings on the leaves, which is emblematic of that common name (see gallery below).
It is a bushy evergreen perennial, growing to a height of 80 cm (31 in), with dark green slightly hairy leaves about 6 cm (2 in) long.
bellidiforme was named the Livingstone daisy by seed-seller Samuel Ryder in 1928, after explorer David Livingstone.
radicosa may hybridize with Bouteloua repens and Bouteloua williamsii, which could contribute to its apparent diversity.
The wood produced by the tree is extremely hard and difficult to work with but is excellent for firewood and makes long-lasting fence posts that resist weathering and insects.
It is locally abundant in a restricted subalpine habitat with high rainfall, often growing in the ecotone in association with Antarctic beech.
Uses Bushy lippia is widely cultivated as an ornamental for its aromatic foliage and beautiful flowers.
Flowering occurs in spring and is followed by oval-shaped reddish-brown capsules, 7–10 centimetres (3–4 in) long.
It is a loosely defined polyphyletic species with a diverse number of subspecies, varying highly in morphology, distribution, and habitat.
Description Rosa glauca is a deciduous shrub of sparsely bristled and thorny cinnamon-coloured arching canes 1.5–3 m (4.9–9.8 ft) tall.
The inflorescences are dense with flowers, which are small, urn-shaped to rounded, and waxy white to very pale pink.
It has broadly elliptic-obtuse shaped standards, that narrow abruptly, they are similar in shape to nautilus shells.
Dudleya cymosa is a species complex of evergreen and deciduous succulent plants in the family Crassulaceae known by the common name: canyon liveforever.
It has 5-9 basal leaves (growing from the rhizome), that are ensiform (sword-shaped) or falcate (sickle-shaped), grey-green and glabrous (hairless).
TPF also does outreach and education at public community events such as the LA Times Festival of Books.
Rosa filipes is a species of flowering plant in the rose family Rosaceae, native to western China, in Gansu, Shaanxi, Sichuan, Xizang, and Yunnan.
Their stems are fleshy and articulated, mostly glabrous with the exception of hairy tufts at the nodes, rarely with papillae-like trichomes or woolly.
Fremontodendron californicum, with the common names California flannelbush, California fremontia, and flannel bush, is a flowering shrub native to diverse habitats in southwestern North America.
Rapid treatment with activated charcoal and/or induced vomiting can reduce the amount of toxin absorbed, and large amounts of fluid by IV can reduce damage to kidneys to increase the chances of survival.
The plant's common name "love-in-a-mist" comes from the flower being nestled in a ring of multifid, lacy bracts.
Success has been reported by placing the kernels in moist vermiculite in sealed plastic bags at room temperature.
Its most curious feature is the apparently random patches of pink variegation on the leaves of most plants of this species; variegation of this nature has been connected with reduced attractiveness to herbivores.
Each flower is about 5 to 6 mm long and its clusters with their long blooming season provide a decorative effect against the young red leaves.
In fruit, prominent membranous wings develop on the back of the perianth segments, usually 2-3 of them larger than the others.
Dark, disc or cushion-shaped acervuli are formed under the plant epidermis which then splits open revealing the fruiting structures.
Distribution and habitat It is common in forests from southeastern Alaska and British Columbia south through western Washington and Oregon to central California.
The inflorescence is a cyme of up to 10 flowers with pink petals each up to 1.5 centimeters in length.
Comarostaphylis diversifolia, known by the common names summer holly and California comarostaphylos, is a species of shrub in the heath family.
In a feeding experiment, the slugs rejected lettuce leaves that had been treated with (2E,6Z)-2,6-nonadienal.
Dysosma is a group of herbaceous perennials in the Berberidaceae or barberry family described as a genus in 1928.
Gallery See also Orange flower water Rosewater sprinkler References External links The dictionary definition of rose water at Wiktionary Media related to Rose water at Wikimedia Commons
The tree reaches 5–10 metres (16–33 ft) in height with oppositely arranged, emarginate leaves and small greenish flowers.
The vein on the leaf margin of both adult and juvenile leaves is markedly distant from the leaf margin.
This isn't surprising, since it's been reported that Pachyphytum along with the genera of Echeveria, Graptopetalum, Lenophyllum and Villadia all are part of a giant comparium.
References External links Jepson Manual Treatment - Rhamnus crocea USDA Plants Profile; Rhamnus crocea Rhamnus crocea — UC Photos gallery Rhamnus crocea — Calflora Taxon Report
These pigments also serve a dual function to attract pollinators, as they are visible to insects and not humans.
Distribution Pachyphytum compactum is endemic just to highland central Mexico, in parts of the states of Guanahuato, Querétaro and Hidalgo.
Actinidia kolomikta, the kolomikta, miyamatatabi, super-hardy kiwi, or variegated-leaf hardy kiwi, is a species of flowering plant in the family Actinidiaceae, native to temperate mixed forests of the Russian Far East, Korea, Japan and China (Eastern Asiatic Region).
It has 2 or more fragrant flowers in late spring (normally between May and June), which come in shades of yellow or purple, or violet and yellow, (from greenish yellow, mid-yellow, yellow, white, off-white to yellow/brown bi-tones).
Cultivation Philodendron xanadu is cultivated as a landscape plant in tropical, subtropical and warm temperate countries including warmer parts of the United States, such as Florida, Hawaii and California, South Africa, Australia and northern New Zealand.
However, known as Little Jewel, it's widely used in rock gardens, xeriscaping and as a potted houseplant.
Endemic to California, this species grows wild only on the northern Channel Islands, where it is found in open rocky places and north-facing slopes.
Toxicity Members of the family Aristolochiaceae contain aristolochic acid, which has been recognized as a carcinogen.
The specific epithet is from the Greek ochro- meaning pale yellow and phloios meaning bark in reference to the pale colour of the upper smooth bark.
The tree is host to various butterflies and their larvae and also provides protective habitat for birds, such as grey falcons and desert finches.
The area of commercial plantations rose from 7-square-kilometre (2.7 sq mi) to 70-square-kilometre (27 sq mi) between 2000 and 2006.
Food law aspects In the European Union, commercially produced Hagebuttenmark has to be declared as "Hagebuttenkonfitüre extra" or "Konfitüre einfach" (fruit preserve onefold).
Its usage in reducing heat, boosting energy, and aiding in diuresis was also mentioned in Li Shizhen's Ming dynasty Compendium of Materia Medica.
The seeds are more likely to germinate after having experienced several cycles of warm and cold weather.
It is endemic to the Canary Islands, where it grows on Tenerife (Macizo de Anaga, Buenavista del Norte and Barranco del Infierno in Adeje), El Hierro, La Gomera, and La Palma in the Tabaibal-Cardonal zone at up to about 600 m altitude.
Description Arctostaphylos morroensis is a spreading shrub, reaching up to 4 meters in height but generally staying wider than tall.
Lepechinia fragrans "has the most attractive flowers and most pleasing scent of all our native pitcher sage species" according to California Native Plants for the Garden.
Contrary to popular belief, this species can withstand wind, frost and cold up to −15 °C provided that the strains are protected for the first two years with mulching.
Valued for its blood-red flowers and pleasant fragrance, it is widely available from commercial suppliers.
However, as of 2024 Plants of the World Online, World Flora Online, and NatureServe agree that it is properly placed in Berberis.
The berries can be eaten raw but the seed to pulp ratio is large so most of these berries are boiled and strained.
It is a shrub or tree with narrowly elliptic phyllodes, spikes of golden yellow flowers and tightly and sometimes irregularly coiled pods that remain as entangled clumps after the seeds have been released.
It also hybridises naturally with Haworthia arachnoidea in habitat, and the two seem to form a continuum.
The giant sequoia annually produces 300,000 to 400,000 seeds, with many seedlings emerging from the duff on the forest floor, but only very few of these seedlings thrive unless conditions are correct.
It has been used thus since antiquity (Ancient Greek: θύον, Latin: citrus), and was used to make valuable furniture in the time of the Roman Empire.
The Tarahumara and Pima Bajo peoples of the Sierra Madre Occidental of Chihuahua weave baskets from the leaves after they strip off the spines from the leaf margins.
Uses As a traditional Native American medicinal plant, the inner bark's sap that was used as a topical remedy for mucous membrane irritation and for gastrointestinal upset, by some of the indigenous peoples of California.
In botany, drought tolerance is the ability by which a plant maintains its biomass production during arid or drought conditions.
The Premier League, Bahrain Grand Prix, and Abu Dhabi Grand Prix offer a rose water-based beverage as an alternative for champagne when awarding Muslim players.
Distribution and habitat The tree is distributed widely across northern Australia and mostly found along river banks and in the heavy soils of flood plains.
Like many senecios, their growing season is in the winter, where would be dormant in the summer months.
Petrosedum rupestre, also known as reflexed stonecrop, Jenny's stonecrop, blue stonecrop, stone orpine, prick-madam and trip-madam, is a species of perennial succulent flowering plant in the family Crassulaceae, native to northern, central, and southern Europe.
Description Growing 60 to 80 cm, the herbaceous plant features burgundy-coloured, pointed foliage with a radiant ruby red rearwards and it has a compact, mounding and spreading habit.
Monardella macrantha is a species of flowering plant in the mint family known by the common name red monardella.
Several records of the species have also been made north of Point Conception, around the city of Arroyo Grande, California.
It is largely limited to a specific type of substrate known as "Baywood fine sands", a type of sandy soil which originated in the Pleistocene as windblown sand dunes.
auricula, with the former being found further south and east (Apennines, Carpathians, Balkans, and the southern and eastern Alps).
In Arizona, it is found in the entire length of the Mogollon Rim to the western region of the White Mountains.
It is native to eastern North America, from Minnesota, Ontario, Quebec, and Maine south to Indiana and Pennsylvania (and as far south as North Carolina in the mountains).
Hybrids There are several named hybrids of Fremontodendron mexicanum and Fremontodendron californicum in the horticultural trade, they include: Fremontodendron 'California Glory' — lemon-yellow flowers with a reddish tinge, grows 20 feet (6.1 m) in height by 20 feet (6.1 m) in width.
Distribution This species is relatively common in habitat, being found from Barrydale to Oudtshoorn.
Clematis lasiantha, the pipestem clematis or chaparral clematis, is a creamy-white flowering liana vine, belonging to subgenus Clematis of the large genus Clematis.
The Latin specific epithet antilibanotica refers to Antilbanus (or Anti-Lebanon Mountains) in central Syria.
and Geum fragarioides, also called Appalachian barren strawberry, or just barren strawberry, is a low, spreading plant with showy yellow flowers that appear in early spring.
Description Prairie dropseed is a perennial bunchgrass whose mound of leaves is typically from 1 to 2 ft (30 to 60 cm) high and 2 to 3 ft (60 to 90 cm) across.
Retirement and succession James Lee died in 1795, and was succeeded in the venture by his son, also named James Lee (1754–1824).
Invasive species Ipomoea indica has become a noxious weed and invasive plant species in Australia, California, China, Ethiopia, France, Greece, Italy, Kenya, Mexico, Montenegro, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Portugal, South Africa, Tanzania, and Uganda.
There is also a dwarf cultivar, and hybrid cultivars have been selected from crosses with Phormium tenax.
Very moist fields will have increased rates of infection as the amount of moisture makes it easy for the zoospores to move through the soil and infect tubers.
Narcissus papyraceus (from papyrus and aceus; meaning paper-like), one of a few species known as paperwhite, is a perennial bulbous plant native to the Mediterranean region, from Greece to Portugal plus Morocco and Algeria.
The bark is variable ranging from smooth with an irregular, short stocking, to covering most of the trunk, fibrous, dense or loosely held, grey, yellow or red-brown, occasionally very coarse, thick, dark brown to black.
Native American ethnobotany The Iroquois take a compound decoction of the plants as a blood remedy, and apply a poultice of the smashed plants to snakebites.
In Chinese medicine, Alkekengi is used to treat such conditions as abscesses, coughs, fevers, and sore throat.
Nerine sarniensis, commonly known as Guernsey lily or Raquel is a species of flowering plant in the family Amaryllidaceae.
Vinca minor (common names lesser periwinkle or dwarf periwinkle) is a species of flowering plant in the dogbane family, native to central and southern Europe.
Among Nguni languages the name umhlakotshane in Zulu and Xhosa is used and in Swati the name given is inhlangutshane Description and uses The tree is dioecious.
Conservation Tasmannia purpurascens was previously listed as "Vulnerable" under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 but was delisted in 2013.
It is native to Oregon and California, where it grows in forest and chaparral habitats, especially areas recently burned.
William Fernie tells a tale in support of this: History relates that a botanist tried hard for eighteen months to dry a plant of the House Leek for his herbarium, but failed in this object.
Linnaeus originally included all the species in one genus, Geranium, but they were later separated into two genera by Charles L’Héritier in 1789.
"Variation of pollen morphology, and its implications in the phylogeny of Clematis (Ranunculaceae)".
Narcissus bulbocodium, the petticoat daffodil or hoop-petticoat daffodil, is a species of flowering plant in the family Amaryllidaceae, native to southern and western France, Portugal, and Spain.
Illustrated flora of the Pacific States, Stanford University Press External links Jepsn Manual Treatment - Monardella odoratissima USDA PLANTS Database - Monardella odoratissima Monardella odoratissima - Photo gallery
Common names include Neapolitan garlic, Naples garlic, daffodil garlic, false garlic, flowering onion, Naples onion, Guernsey star-of-Bethlehem, star, white garlic, and wood garlic.
Cultivation The species is commonly grown as a groundcover in temperate gardens for its evergreen foliage, spring and summer flowers, ease of culture, and dense habit that smothers most weeds.
officinalis flowers was shown to have both spasmolytic and spasmogenic effects, thus providing a scientific rationale for this traditional use.
Habitat Ballota nigra is a nitrophilous plant; it grows in ruins, fallows, and hedges at elevations up to 1,300 m (4,300 ft).
Schröter originally placed the species in the genus Peronospora but later moved it to the genus Plasmopara.
Usage Known for centuries before Spanish colonization of Gran Chaco, the mistol was a regular (or even key) dietary item for several local tribes of South American Indians (comechingons, diaguitas, quilmes, etc.).
Cultivation and propagation Sempervivum tectorum is one of several houseleek species to be cultivated.
Habitat It grows on open dry, rocky hillsides, (made of limestone,) amid light scrub, and scattered juniper trees.
Fabavirus is a genus of plant viruses (plant pathogens) in the order Picornavirales, in the family Secoviridae, in the subfamily Comovirinae.
The nursery was created by Elers Koch, of the Forest Service, who also helped fight the Great Fire of 1910 that destroyed much of the Rocky Mountains in the northern part of USA, including the nursery.
External links Jepson eFlora, The Jepson Herbarium, University of California, Berkeley Nupa (Black Oak Acorn) Soup recipe — from Tuolumne Rancheria.
Since the "Hagebuttenkonfitüre extra" with kernels is not edible, there's a special provision that allows declaration of the Hagebuttenmark (without kernels) as "Konfitüre extra".
It was originally described as Pogonolobus reticulatus in 1858, before being transferred to its current name in 1867.
The genus once had a much broader range during the Oligocene–Miocene, with some species occurring in North America.
Lavandula multifida, the fernleaf lavender or Egyptian lavender, is a small plant, sometimes a shrub, native to the southern regions of the Mediterranean, including Iberia, Sicily, Northwest Africa and the Canary Islands.
Of 15,000 such crosses, three seedlings were selected based on vigor, disease resistance and fertility.
Ecology Reproduction Solidago altissima is self-incompatible, meaning that the pollen from one plant cannot pollinate the female flower parts of the same plant.
Distribution The plant is native to Chihuahuan Desert and Sonoran Desert ecoregions of the Southwestern United States and northern Mexico.
Distribution Parry's grama prefers rocky slopes or desert grasslands between 910 m (3,000 ft) and 1,700 m (5,500 ft), although it can grow anywhere between sealevel and 2,000 m (6,600 ft).
The spines can puncture deeply, and if broken off, can leave splinters of spine deep in the tissue that can be difficult to remove.
It is found from near Giles in Western Australia, through the south of the Northern Territory as far north as Tennant Creek to near Mount Isa and Barcaldine in Queensland.
Cultivation and uses Aloe succotrina can easily be grown as an ornamental plant in Mediterranean climate gardens, rockeries, and in containers.
Wharariki - a variety from Urewera has a superior fibre quality that may be woven into a soft kete [traditional Māori basket].
References External links Media related to Asarum caudatum at Wikimedia Commons Roché, Cindy Talbott; Lang, Frank A.
Stypandra glauca, commonly known as the nodding blue lily, is a flowering plant in the family Asphodelaceae.
Hagebuttenmark, also called Hägenmark (Swabian dialect), Hiffenmark (East Franconian dialect) is the traditional name for a fruit preserve made from rose hips, sugar, and sometimes red wine.
The glandular leaves are each made up of several double-toothed oval leaflets, the terminal leaflet up to 3 centimeters long.
References External links Virtual Botanical Museum of Crete” – MEDITERRANEAN AGRONOMIC INSTITUTE OF CHANIA (MAICh), 2008.
pentagona (Heilborn)): Effect of media, container size, stem number, and plant density NZJ of crop and horticultural Science.
The popular cultivar 'Little Ruby' is shorter and slightly less brownish in colour, in addition to having smaller leaves as well.
In Ireland, the houseleek was known as tóirpín and was placed over doorways and in cow-dung; it was believed to protect a house from lightning-strike or burning.
Senecio crassissimus, the propeller plant, vertical leaf or lavender steps, is a succulent species of flowering plant in the daisy family Asteraceae, and is endemic to the island of Madagascar off the east coast of Africa.
Rose hips are also used to produce rose hip seed oil, which is used in skin products and some makeup products.Diarrhodon (Gr διάρροδον, "compound of roses", from ῥόδων, "of roses") is the historic name for various compounds in which red roses are an ingredient.
Despite being protected and listed as a Vulnerable threatened species on the IUCN Red List, it is still being unsustainably harvested from the wild.
Cool temperatures between 50–65 °F (10–18 °C) and indirect light will help to prolong the bloom time.
Each leaf measures anywhere from 6–22 cm (2.4–8.7 in) long by 3–7 cm (1.2–2.8 in) wide, with an acuminate tip.
Allium ampeloprasum has been differentiated into five cultivated vegetables: leek, elephant garlic, pearl onion, kurrat, and Persian leek.
They also used the roots in washes for syphilis and cancer, and other parts of the plant for treating dysentery, gonorrhea, and eye problems in children.
Plant Delights Nursery has a specialty catalog with humorous, topical covers drawn by cartoonist Jack Pittman.
Unlike many other bamboo species, the leaves do not brown at the tips even under suboptimal growing conditions.
See also International Carnivorous Plant Society North American Sarracenia Conservancy References External links California Carnivores Native Plant Nursery
The foliage forms in open sprays with scale-like leaves 1–8 mm long and 1–1.5 mm broad; the leaves are arranged in opposite decussate pairs, with the successive pairs closely then distantly spaced, so forming apparent whorls of four.
Parts of the tree including roots, shoots, and pods are also often used by natives for a vast number of purposes including decorations, weapons, tools, and medicines.
The fruit is a woody, barrel-shaped capsule 32–55 mm (1.3–2.2 in) long and 26–45 mm (1.0–1.8 in) wide with about eight sharp ribs on the sides and the valves enclosed in the fruit.
crenata is native to temperate and subtropical parts of eastern China (including Hainan), Japan, Korea, Taiwan, the Himalayas (Nepal, India, Tibet), Myanmar, Vietnam and Sakhalin, Russia.
Nerine sarniensis is a bulbous perennial growing to 45 cm (18 in) tall by 8 cm (3 in) wide, with strap-shaped leaves and umbels of scarlet, lily-like flowers with conspicuous stamens tipped with purple anthers, in late summer and early autumn.
It is saprophytic on dead and dying tissues and is weakly parasitic infecting wounds under moist conditions.
It has been in cultivation since 1875, and is now much more common in gardens than in its natural habitat.
Nictoiana alata is mainly grown as an ornamental plant; numerous cultivars and hybrids are derived from it.
The apex of the spike bears a large cluster of bright red flowers, each 10 centimetres (4 in) across.
Medicinal plant Sphaeralcea incana has been used as a medicinal plant, traditionally by Native Americans, and by others.
Cultural importance Jasmine is cultivated commercially for domestic and industrial uses, such as the perfume industry.
Description When distinguished from Monardella villosa, Monardella odoratissima is described as a subshrub, growing to 10–45 cm (4 in – 1 ft 6 in).
Description Melica californica is a perennial bunch grass, generally with rhizomes, producing a dense cluster of stems up to about 1.3 metres (4 ft 3 in) in maximum height.
Cultivation Suited for pots, it may be used as a hedge and as a contrasting plant to the more lighter foliage in the garden.
Contemporary artists featured include Gene Bauer, Fred Kuretski, Richard Dickey, and Ken Gilliland, and artists Melanie Symonds, Pamela Burgess, Ed Lum, and Elinor Nissley.
Some sources say that the species is also native to Morocco, but this is based on populations formerly thought to be varieties of N.
For example, honey made from the nectar of rhododendrons ("mad honey") contains chemicals that cause light-headedness, hallucinations and are believed by some to improve sexual performance.
They may reach 65 cm (26 in) long and 12 cm (4.7 in) wide, and are arranged spirally around the stem.
Young plants and coppice regrowth have egg-shaped leaves that are 50–155 mm (2.0–6.1 in) long, 20–65 mm (0.8–2.6 in) wide and arranged in opposite pairs.
During Nuttall's stay in San Diego, he collected around 44 species of plants, including this species.
The leaves and flowers of the plant can be made into an herbal tea used for respiratory irritations and flu.
Perrier and Dr Chabert (his friend), on Mount Dent d'Arcluz in the Bauges Mountains, but thought to be a form of Iris aphylla (which was at time called Iris bohemia, later classified as a synonym of Iris aphylla).
Farmers reap the benefits of increased reseeding that occurs with increased bee activity, which means that future clover yields remain abundant.
vernicosa E.Pereira (1979) - Rio de Janeiro State Cultivars Aechmea 'Chantichantha' Aechmea 'Dawson' Aechmea 'Distibachii' Aechmea 'Pacifica' × Neomea 'Flame' References External links Aechmea distichantha Aechmea distichantha "Aechmea distichantha".
References External links Jepson Manual Treatment Photo gallery Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Research Center
Fragrant lilac-coloured to white flowers are produced in early spring and are followed by small 8mm diameter fruits bearing a persistent style, green at first, turning orange, red and finally black.
The bulbs themselves are very hardy, but the shoots appear early in the season and may be damaged by frost.
In temperate areas it is popularly grown as a half-hardy annual, and lends itself to mass plantings or as edging plants in summer bedding schemes in parks and gardens.
Description Tasmannia purpurascens usually grows to a height of 1–3 m (3–10 ft) with a woody stem, purplish new growth and branchlets.
'Rose Absolute' is solvent-extracted with hexane and produces a darker oil, dark yellow to orange in colour.
Sempervivum tectorum was described in 1753 by Linnaeus, who noted that its leaves are ciliate, that is, fringed with hairs.
The fruit is large (120 mm (4.7 in) diameter), round and with a smooth hard shell, bluish-green in colour and turning yellow when ripe.
Peronospora conglomerata is a biotrophic plant pathogen (part of the downy mildew taxon) which affects geranium species.
Sisyrinchium bellum, the western blue-eyed grass or Californian blue-eyed grass, is the common blue-eyed grass of California and Oregon in and west of the Sierra Nevada, its range extending south into Baja California.
Cultivation × Chitalpa is dry-spell tolerant and fast-growing (some meters or several feet a year to 6–9 m or 20–30 ft) and blooms between late spring and late fall.
Ceropegia dichotoma (Spanish: cardoncillo) is a flowering plant in the genus Ceropegia (Apocynaceae).
– Branched asphodel – southern Europe, northern Africa, the Middle East and Canary Islands Asphodelus refractus Boiss.
Lilium regale, called the regal lily, royal lily, king's lily,or, in New Zealand, the Christmas lily, is a species of flowering plant in the lily family Liliaceae, with trumpet-shaped flowers.
Description Comarostaphylis diversifolia is an erect shrub which can exceed 4 metres (13 ft) in height.
ferox, as well as other species of the genus Encephalartos for which chromosome number has been found, is 2n = 18.
Cordyline manners-suttoniae, commonly known as the giant palm lily, is an evergreen plant found only in rainforest of northeastern Queensland, Australia.
In this type of environment, water is drained quickly from the roots of the plant, never allowing the plant to be submerged in water.
To this very day a gift of purse peonies is considered in China the quintessential love token or proposal of marriage in the language of flowers, with much the same connotations as the red rose in Europe.
In the United States it is primarily found in the great plains mostly west of the Mississippi from Minnesota and Montana in the north to New Mexico and Louisiana in the south.
See also California chaparral and woodlands ecoregion California coastal sage and chaparral ecoregion Colorado Desert References Further reading Pink, A.
References Harlow, Nora, Jakob, Kristin, and Raiche, Roger (2003) "Wild Lilies, Irises, and Grasses".
Aloe buettneri growth overlaps with the growth of Aloe schweinfurthii, which is, along with Aloe buettneri, is usually referred to as Aloe barteri Baker.
Mistol coffee is available in South American diet shops, it is becoming slowly popular because it contains almost no caffeine or other xanthine alkaloids.
The leaves are obovate and stalkless, with a cartilaginous edge, all growing in a basal rosette, and sometimes covered in a mealy white bloom.
He also noted that the seeds are such a potent attractant for doves that Native Americans would take advantage of concentrations of "dove weed" to lure and catch doves in large numbers.
The plant itself grows to a maximum height of about 2 m, flowering in mid-spring, with fruit setting and ripening on a similar timetable to the blackcurrant.
The largest areas of uninterrupted areas of native prairie are in the Central Shortgrass Prairie, in eastern Colorado and western Kansas with as much as 50% of it still in place, though used for grazing of cattle instead of the mix of native grazers.
While it tolerates intense sunlight and high heat, it suffers when temperatures drop below 7 °C (45 °F), and temperatures below -6.7 °C (20 °F) kill the plant.
If planted in pots, they are left to dry from September and in the spring, given fertilizer during the growing season.
The leaves are divided into 3-5 slender leaflets, each leaflet 1–2 cm long and 1 mm broad, densely covered with fine silvery hairs.
Theodore Payne Art Gallery The Theodore Payne Art Gallery exhibits feature historical and contemporary artworks depicting the California flora as botanical illustrations and botanical portrait interpretations, as well as cultural, historical, and other exhibits featuring the California flora.
Distribution and habitat Its native range extends across the Mediterranean Region from Portugal to the Levant.
Description Penstemon heterophyllus is a perennial herb producing upright, branching stems easily exceeding one meter in height and becoming woody at the bases.
A further two subspecies are named, but as of May 2023, not formally described: Senna artemisioides subsp.
Species Species include: Jasmonates Jasmine lends its name to jasmonate plant hormones, as methyl jasmonate isolated from the oil of Jasminum grandiflorum led to the discovery of the molecular structure of jasmonates.
Victoria, British Columbia, Canada description, criteria for judging quality of fruit University of Alaska @ Fairbanks, Native Plants of Alaska, Oval-leafed Blueberry photos, description, propagation information Черника овальнолистная (V.
villosa, known as little ruby and ruby leaf alternanthera, is a fast-growing ornamental groundcover plant in the amaranth family.
Dianthus calocephalus), the blood pink, is a species of flowering plant in the family Caryophyllaceae.
Rosa rhaetica, the Raetic rose, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae, native to the Alps of eastern Switzerland, western Austria, and northern Italy.
Perennial cultivars There are hundreds of perennial viola and violetta cultivars; many of these do not breed true from seed and therefore have to be propagated from cuttings.
The name Aster comes from the Ancient Greek word ἀστήρ (astḗr), meaning 'star', referring to the shape of the flower head.
In 2012, the nursery's spring catalog cover ignited a strong reprisal from Penn State alumni when the cover featured a caricature of former coach Jerry Sandusky dressed as a lion with a Penn State logo attached chasing children down a road.
It is native to Korea, Japan, and to Jilin Province in northeastern China, as well as being widely cultivated as an ornamental.
Pollination The flowers of Lotus berthelotii and some other Canary Island species appear to be adapted for bird pollination.
It is the sister species to the bitter melon, Citrullus amarus with which it shares hard, white and bitter flesh.
The plant was collected by Charles Maries in Sapporo, on the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido, where the plant was locally called miyamatatabi, in 1878, and sent to his patrons, Veitch Nurseries, who introduced it into Western horticulture.
It is native to coastal mountain ranges of southern California and Baja California, where it grows in several habitat types, including chaparral, woodlands, and forest.
Public displays CC also provides consultation and plants for both temporary and permanent public exhibitions of carnivorous plants at museums, botanical gardens, and plant shows.
It has clusters of three to five flowers with petals 6–9 mm (0.24–0.35 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods 20–70 mm (0.79–2.76 in) long and 10–12 mm (0.39–0.47 in) wide.
Mirbelia speciosa is a species of flowering plant in the family Fabaceae and is endemic to eastern Australia.
In Asia, it is distributed throughout Russia (Kamchatka, the southern Kuril Islands, Primorsky Krai, and Sakhalin) and Japan (Hokkaido and central and northern Honshu).
Notes References External links Jepson Manual Treatment: Dudleya cymosa USDA Plants Profile — Dudleya cymosa The Nature Conservancy
Rosa setigera, commonly known as the climbing rose, prairie rose, and climbing wild rose, is a species of shrub or vine in the Rosaceae (rose) family native to central and eastern North America.
Traditional Chinese medicine In Traditional Chinese medicine the root is employed for detoxification, to improve blood circulation, and as an analgesic.
Medicinal history "The Creek Indians called it 'pipsisikweu' – which means 'breaks into small pieces' – after the supposed ability to break down gallstones and kidney stones.
By 2006, the business had a £1.8 million annual turnover, six acres of glasshouses and employed around 35 people.
Dog Rose (Rosa Canina) can also have small pink flowers, but their rosehips are large and more cylindrical.
It has also been used as a building material when mixed with adobe for its adhesive qualities and strength.
Description This is a perennial bunchgrass, growing erect to under a meter-3 feet in height, and the flower glumes often assumes a light brown to reddish-purple color.
It is grown as an ornamental plant and is very similar in appearance to 'string of pearls', where the names may be conflated.
If flowers and leaves are ingested by humans, symptoms may include salivation, headaches, vomiting, cardiac failure, and death.
Native Americans recognized the importance of fire to this oak, and purposely lit fires in oak woodlands to promote its health and ensure their food source.
Auriculas The term auricula is also used collectively for plants which have been developed from a hybrid between P.
Dark blue or violet flowers may be either single or three-pronged, and are borne on long stems held above the foliage.
The parasitic plant Pacific mistletoe (Phoradendron villosum), which commonly grows on this oak, produces berries that attract birds, as well.
36 pg) and included in the new Section Nevadensis, distinct from Pseudonarcissus, being from southern Spain with a DNA content of 30–39 pg.
Uses A spermicide developed from this plant, that helps women control birth rates without any major side effects, was around 20% more effective than nonoxynol-9.
The leaves are adorned on the secondary veins with dark green bands, which meet and merge in the margins.
In the UK two National Collections of auriculas are held by Hillview Hardy Plants nursery, on a 1 acre (0.4 ha) plot in Worfield, Shropshire.
When V or F are recessive (vv or ff) the flowers will lack any colour and will be white in appearance.
filifolia, Randell commonly known as desert cassia, broom bush or punty bush, (W.A., N.T., S.A., Qld., N.S.W., Vic.) has cylindrical petioles that are more than 15 mm (0.59 in) long, the leaves with up to four pairs of cylindrical leaflets 20–40 mm (0.79–1.57 in) long.
A population collected in Taxkorgan Tajik Autonomous County, Kashgar Prefecture, Xinjiang, China was described as a separate species in 1987 and given the name Perovskia pamirica, but was later considered synonymous with P.
Flowers are capable of being grown in household locations such as "window boxes, troughs, and pots" in areas with long hours of sun.
Near the stem, the skin is bumpy as it is in the sugar-apple, but becomes smoother like the cherimoya on the bottom.
An alternative method of control is a hot water treatment, which affects all stages of the life cycle and can be used on whole plants.
On the Swan Coastal Plain to the south, its distribution is discontinuous, being largely confined to patches of suitable sand in the narrow transition zone where tuart forest gives way to jarrah forest.
Due to the fact that all Chitalpas today were bred from the original root stock, all species have the pathogen.
