Beginning with that sale and continuing throughout the campaign, Fairey used proceeds from selling the image to produce more; after first printing, he made 4,000 more that were distributed at Obama rallies before Super Tuesday.
During its recovery the last buildings — the tent-like church of Saint Martinian (1641), a two-tented barbican church (1650), and a bell-tower (1680) — were added to the complex.
Blackboard chalk, typically used in educational settings, is shorter and thinner than sidewalk chalk.
Urban folklore has it that cyclists on round-island trips will make a pit stop there, where they will take photos with the lamp post, and leave their favourite stickers behind.
He had over 8 years of experience in various kind of communication design projects in the industry as well as his own startup, Digital Moustache.
Wildstyle has drawn inspiration from traditional calligraphy and has been described by some as partially abstract but does have specific traits associated with the form.
The Steppe Geoglyphs are a number of earth constructions in the Turgai Trough area of Turgai in northern Kazakhstan.
Notable examples have been made by many different Australian Aboriginal cultures, and in many cases are thought to be associated with spiritual ceremonies.
In a 2001 exercise, an attempt was made to transport a large stone along a land and sea route from Wales to Stonehenge.
René kept the gallery open into 1999, when he and Joanne were pressured out of their long-time Wooster Street space.
From right to left are Madam Governor and her two daughters (Shiyi Niang and Shisan Niang), along with nine maidservants.
Undisturbed stones are found usually arranged in parallel pairs of between eight and fourteen lattes framing a rectangular space.
In July 2020, the S was trademarked in the United States as "The S Thing" by a man who had no involvement in its creation.
In contrast to conventional graffiti styles that emerged in 1970s New York, Brazilian pichação was inspired by blackletter typefaces and runic style lettering that were commonly used on record sleeves by popular heavy metal bands in the 1980s.
See also Cultural depictions of cats Fathom (art installation), another temporary art installation in Portland Wildwood: Follow the Crows (2026) References External links "Coraline's Curious Cat Trail descends upon downtown Portland".
By 1984, Knight had discovered Slab City – a transient and retiree commune – and decided to leave a 'small monument' out of concrete and paint.
Kissing Students (Estonian: Suudlevad tudengid) is a sculpture and fountain located in Raekoja plats, Tartu, Estonia.
During the coronation festivities accompanying the crowning of the Kings of Hungary in the city between 1563 and 1830, wine was usually poured into the town fountains.
The carved limestone depicts the Roman goddess Diana seated and surrounded by fish, cattails and a unicorn.
Such graffiti/street artists as Keith Haring, Shepard Fairey, Above, Mint&Serf, Futura 2000, Os Gemeos, and Faile among others have successfully transcended their street art aesthetic beyond the walls of urban landscape and onto walls of private and corporate clients.
With this victory and the blood spilled by the friendship of the Korean and Soviet people became even stronger.
Jodi Magness also states that during the 4th century Jewish places of worship represented “the Garden of Eden or Paradise, a place where heaven and earth were united”.
The foundation stone was laid by Brigadier General Sir William Henry Manning, Governor of Ceylon on December 7, 1921, and was unveiled by him October 27, 1923 at the Galle Face Green and was known as the Victory tower.
It is in the building of these systems that Herodes Atticus had become in essence a civil engineer with expertise in water supply.
Controversy On 26 January 2020, Headache Stencil came under controversy for his statements on Twitter targeting Chinese people, which read "Hey Chink!
He launched Portals in collaboration with fellow journalist Michelle Moghtader and Iranian artist Sohrab Kashani.
Moreover, there are some challenges in fabricating and applying graphene oxide based nanofilters for water desalination.
Alyce McGovern highlights that a possible reason for this is that yarn bombing is often done by white middle-class women and it is seen as harmless fun; it is deemed more as street art and less as graffiti (which is enforced much more strictly).
Invurt maintains news of exhibitions and events, interviews and photography of street art across Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia.
The individual figures, however, indicate marked deterioration from the expressive detail of the murals of Seti I's mortuary temple.
The Lovers is a public art work by artist Mark di Suvero located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The piece also questioned whether the performance – or the document of the performance – was the actual artwork.
The St Pancras piano is part of a wider phenomenon of public pianos in the UK, influenced by initiatives such as artist Luke Jerram's "Play me, I'm yours" installation, which began in 2008.
See also Presencia de América Latina References External links Description of the work in www.portaldearte.cl (in Spanish) Ojo con el Arte - 1990 - Murales de Concepción (YouTube video in Spanish).
The initial concept for the southernmost end of the project included the Crenshaw Monument, a 120-foot-tall (6.1 m) totem that spells out Crenshaw in giant letters.
These geoglyphs form different geometric patterns and appear in several shapes, and are up to 13 ft (4m) deep.
The constructions Many or all of them consist of smaller earthworks (mounds, trenches, and ramparts) arranged with each other to make geometric and other shapes (composite figures).
Even the deity syllables are removed in a specific order along with the rest of the geometry until at last the mandala has been dismantled to show impermanence.
Its vasque had a circle of gas lamps which shone on the cascading water, making it one of the first fountains to be illuminated.
Graffiti is often seen as a form of territory, and once it premiers on a location it invites others to participate in the act of vandalism.
The festival has since exhibited in 17 cities worldwide with the purpose of city beautification and community building.
The technical procedure for sgraffito is relatively simple, resembling the process of painting frescoes.
Vallauri's (anonymous) stencils were published in France since 1982 and had a larger impact on the New Yorker and later Polish stencil graffiti movements around David Wojnarowicz and Thomaz Sikorski.
See also List of public art in Baltimore Fort McHenry References External links http://monumentcity.net/2009/03/02/armistead-monument-at-fort-mchenry-baltimore-md/
Cirio overlaid the auction prices on the images to sell them as digital artworks on the website Art-Derivatives.com [31] for a fraction of the value set at the auctions.
There is a bridge over the stream next to the southern carriageway of H3, and an underpass links this bridge to the cows' field.
In 1996, a new article published in an engineering magazine offered a new interpretation, according to which the pucara might be a ritual site and an astronomical observatory, not a fortress.
By the middle of the Bristol trail over 1,000,000 sculptures had been ticked off using the app, which also allowed visitors to complete special trails, learn about the sculptures and artists, and earn interactive trophies.
Recognition Facter is noted for his advocacy of street art and graffiti in Australia, he has written articles on street art in Australia, as well as on issues of copyright.
Fine granules that have been rounded by the natural influences of seas, rivers or fluvials, in turn negatively influence the bonding between the individual granules as they more easily slide past each other.
Sunpendulum is an art, science and technology project devised by Austrian media artist Kurt Hofstetter.
The contaminants, chlorinated ethylenes (PCE and TCE), were removed, leaving, for the most part, fully dechlorinated groundwater (little vinyl chloride was observed).
It houses four traditional Meitei watercraft, including two hiyang hirens (Royal racing boats) and two tanna his (commoners' racing boats).
Turkey added Asu Ceren, Cuneyt Celik, Cooper, Dünya Atay, Eskreyn, Iberoptik, Flypropaganda, Fu, Funk, Goksu Gul, Jellyfishandroyale, Kmr, Küf Project, Levent Bozkurt, Mekazoo, Miray özcan, Nnuka, Omeria, Pet05, Shione, Sesin çıksın, Tabone, Techone, Yeni Anıt, Zoe, Wicx, and Choma.
While POWWOW shares the name of the Native American Pau Wau gathering, the festival's name originates combining the "Pow" of comic book action bubbles with the "WOW" of a reader's reaction.
It debuted publicly in Rotterdam in February 2007 and went on to be exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) and Tate Modern, among other venues.
Nymphaeum was the general name throughout the Mediterranean for an ornate structure that terminated an aqueduct bringing water from distant elevated terrain, say a stream or copious springs.
The selected site at the corner of Wingrove Avenue and Station Streets has enabled us to design a work of monumental scale which will have a strong presence, provide a unifying focus and become a landmark identified with Fairfield.
On the westside of the country, some younger stones (from the fourteenth to sixteenth centuries), have been found in three areas: Luss, Inchcailloch, and Loch Lomond, and Glendaruel.
(2020) indicate that soil samples predating the geoglyph are approximately 7,000 years old (AD ±4980).
They are of a monumental scale with several of the individual blocks weighing over 5 long tons (5 t).
Construction of the fountain began in 1929 by architect Pavia Høegh (1886-1956), the grandfather of artist Aka Høegh.
Cigarette is a public artwork by United States artist Tony Smith, located on the grounds of the Albright Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, NY.
Rists repeatedly sings "I'm not the girl who misses much", a reference to the first line of the song "Happiness Is a Warm Gun" by the Beatles.
The corporation produced the Sarasota Chalk Festival, a cultural event designed to celebrate the sixteenth century performance art of Italian street painting.
In traditional Persian architecture, a howz (Persian: حوض) is a centrally positioned symmetrical axis pool.
Fontaine du Printemps, Square Calmette, (1932), Paul Manaut and Gilbert Privat, sculptors Fontaine Jean-Moulin, Square Jean-Moulin, porte de Châtillon, (1957).
The installation work was carried out by the French technical expert Matias Richet and a Peruvian architect, surnamed Salazar, was in charge of the construction of the stone plinth.
On 23 August, at the height of the Battle of Tripoli, NTC rebels breached the Bab al-Azizia compound and international news stations broadcast pictures of rebels gathered around the statue, with one fighter having climbed onto it.
Sculpture gardens may also vary greatly in size and scope, either featuring the collected works of multiple artists, or the artwork of a single individual.
"Duncombe's Dog" In settlement of his gambling debts in 1778, Jennings was forced to sell the sculpture, stating "A fine dog it was, and a lucky dog was I to purchase it".
The sculptures differ from common garden statues by virtue of their original intent as well as designs which were meant to be embedded into a masonry wall.
However, it has been speculated that they might have been on the left pillar and the lesene to the right of the fresco.
French 16th-century gardens in the Ile-de-France were generally in flat terrain that did not lend itself to elaborate jeux d'eau.
Sir William Blackstone is a bronze statue by Paul Wayland Bartlett of the English legal scholar William Blackstone.
Seeking investment in YrWall, the entrepreneurs were successful in gaining £50,000 for 40% of the YrWall parent company Lumacoustics from Dragons Deborah Meaden and Peter Jones.
In November 2018 Laura Alarcón Rapu, the Governor of Easter Island, asked the British Museum to return the statue.
The cost of demolishing the prison, and thus the budget for the artwork, was estimated at somewhere between one and three million dollars.
This cornfield was stewarded by Lauren Bon and a large team of collaborators and volunteers for a full agricultural cycle in 2005 – 2006.
On 8 April 2000 a memorial plate dedicated to American pilots whose aircraft was brought down on 8 April 1950 by the USSR Air Forces near Liepāja was added to the pedestal of the monument.
The Statehouse was built in 1888 and remains one of the most important Neo-Classical Revival buildings in the state of Indiana.
Bollywood Art Project (BAP) is an urban art project started in 2012 in Mumbai, India in memoir of popular Hindi Cinema of Bollywood.
Instead of allowing the work to undergo further degradation, the monks began approaching art dealers, hoping to sell it.
By the time the Tower was fully restored in September 2017, the 1950s surgery center the stairwell had once attached to had been demolished and a new hospital building had been constructed.
In the introduction to the book, Ellis noted that US photographer Charles Gatewood had written to him and sent him photographs of similar stencil graffiti that had recently appeared in New York City, leading Ellis to speculate that: ...
Each year, the theme refers to a social issue that is applicable to all and makes both the artists and the audience look at these social issues in new and transformative ways.
More than 3,000 VIPs from the world of politics, business and culture took part in the opening ceremony.
In addition to his diligent practice of painting and calligraphy, Pan also delved into music and poetry.
"More on Hoa Hakananai'a: Paint, petroglyphs, and a sledge, and the independent value of archaeological and historical evidence" (PDF).
It first arrived at UMMA as a long-term loan in 2008, helping to celebrate the museum's new Maxine and Stuart Frankel and the Frankel Family Wing.
The project The name of the project, Djerbahood, was imposed to the organizers by the giant letters THE HOOD installed by Rodolphe Cintorino at the entrance of the village, also known as El Hara Sghira or "the small neighborhood" in Arabic.
In 1962, Hunt was the youngest artist exhibited at the Seattle World's Fair, and in 1971, Hunt became the first African-American sculptor to receive a retrospective exhibition of his work at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
On 11 and 12 September 2010, the Berenkuil was the stage for the international graffiti festival "Step In The Arena", which was held again on 9 and 10 July 2011.
However, in the opinion of the monument's creators, the aid was of the wrong kind: barely-edible canned food, instead of weapons.
It was built to commemorate the arrival of Konev's 1st Ukrainian Front, namely the Fourth Tank Army led by Lelyushenko, on 9 May 1945, ending the German occupation of Prague.
See also Continuum sculpture Delta Solar List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 2 References Further reading "Fabricating a soaring symbol of the space age {Richard Lippold's Ad astra}." AIA Journal 65, (October 1976): Art Index Retrospective: 1929–1984 (H.
They didn't reflect the light of the sun from any possible viewing angles on the street, but the artist worked with them as well, using morse code to embed messages in the window grids.
Zhang Guanghua (China Merchants Bank's vice president) were appointed as the chairman and Vice Chairman of Wing Lung Bank respectively.
Art exhibition "Best Before" in Lunchmoney Gallery, Aarhus, Denmark 2012 Street Art The New Generation, Brandts Museum of Art, Odense.
His photographic records resulted in the video Arte Para Todos, shown at the International São Paulo Biennial in 1977.
The architectural sculpture was created for the Milwaukee Fire Department station at the intersection of 103rd Street and Fond du Lac Avenue.
The Family is a public art work by artist Joseph Puccetti that depicts an abstract man, woman and child encircled by a ring.
Social sculpture and political art ART/MEDIA operated as a museum without walls with an office located in the historical Kimo Theater on Route 66.
Zygielbojm11 May 1943 London The monument is part of the Memorial Route of Jewish Martyrdom and Struggle, leading from the intersection of Anielewicza and Zamenhofa Streets and the Monument to the Ghetto Heroes, to the Umschlagplatz Monument.
In architecture, and specifically Gothic architecture, a gargoyle () is a carved or formed grotesque with a spout designed to convey water from a roof and away from the side of a building, thereby preventing it from running down masonry walls and eroding the mortar between.
The construction intent document was submitted to the Senior Associate University Architect and Director of IUPUI Project Development in June 2004 and the final bid document was issued in June 2006.
The artwork is located in a small park near Third and Walker Streets in the Walker's Point neighborhood.
An aqueduct of 74 m on the north side of the spur would have to reach the sources of the Kladeos in Erymanthos, near Mageiras at 3.5 km from Olympia.
The image shows one example with a phallus portrayed with wings and the feet of an animal, and a phallus for a tail.
When another user comes within range of an RFID-tagged object, the associated graffiti is downloaded onto their mobile device.
They stated that the theme was open to interpretation as long as the finished work would supply birds with water.
The name by which the beach is actually known comes from a nearby cave where it seems that Hotu Matu’a could have been installed while building a house for him.
In a small city forest threatened by urban planners, a 200-pound revolver welded in iron was chained to one of the trees, carrying the stencil text: “My Ancestors Went Hunting in These Woods”.
The owner, Baron Emile d'Erlanger, donated the canvases to the Spanish state in 1881, and they are now on display at the Museo del Prado.
Transportation Since the island was largely treeless by the time the Europeans first visited, the movement of the statues was a mystery for a long time.
Some hydraulophones include an underwater hydrophone pickup to allow the sounds produced by the water to be electrically amplified.
was founded in 2010 by Denise Kowal as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation, based in Sarasota, Florida in the United States.
History Whitaker Wright The statues were amongst the property of the celebrated fraudster Whitaker Wright.
For example, the stone arrangement at Wurdi Youang consists of about 100 stones arranged in an egg-shaped oval about 50 metres (160 ft) across.
Transporting of water was usually completed using clay jars, used by many of the residents, and only replaced in the 20th century by the typical plastic bottles.
In New York City, the artists put up thousands of fliers, and activists posted them in Berlin, Lisbon, and Buenos Aires.
It was undertaken as an experiment in change, decay and rebirth, and by 2000, had largely disappeared into a landscape of overgrown vegetation.
Biography Ball was born in Waterloo, Iowa, where he was influenced by his mother's role as a theater director, while Nogues, from Buenos Aires, was inspired by his father's work in aerospace engineering.
George Washington (bust by Houdon) is a public artwork that is a limited edition copy of an original work by French neoclassical sculptor Jean Antoine Houdon that is on display inside the Indiana Statehouse, which is located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.
Wang NewCity Chicago, Eye Exam Group dynamics Michael Workman SF Bay Guardian, Business as unusual Artist collectives make the personal political in Peer Pleasure 2 By Katie Kurtz Smart Museum Exhibit, University of Chicago, 2002
Floyd has completed several public art works in Melbourne including at the Docklands and for the Eastlink Motorway.
The states with the most hillside letters are: Montana: 130 monograms California: 83 monograms Utah: 94 monograms Arizona: 63 monograms Nevada: 47 monograms Oregon: 39 monograms Idaho: 36 monograms United States Arizona California Colorado At least 31 monograms, possibly 33.
In 2007, the trout was repainted and restored and in 2012 the work was refurbished to celebrate the centenary of the Snowy River Shire.
It demonstrate how to succeed without being located by dogs, and when not to run to avoid being shot.
A sequencing fountain is an ornamental fountain that cycles through a series of patterns of water flow under the control of a programmable control unit.
The coarse particles return to the mill for re-grinding while the finer products are passed on to a subsequent stage of treatment.
Among other things, the project explores the function of art as gift and the effect of a gift economy on creative productivity.
See also List of attractions and monuments in Stanley Park Public art in Vancouver References External links Sculpture wearing a Canucks jersey with white towel.
Iyengar was a guest of the Garfinkels when he visited Philadelphia in 1976 and gave a public demonstration of yoga at Haverford College.
This is a list of colossal statues and other sculptures that were created, mostly or all carved, and remain in situ.
Form is known for projects that often span several years (see below), and for its ability to generate innovative partnerships with industry and corporate sponsors including Wesfarmers and BHP Billiton.
Commercial vessels are sized to accommodate the flow rate of water and range up to 14 feet in diameter.
In February 2017 the robot's creator, an Italian artist known as "Norma Jeane", lost contact with ShyBot.
In the construction stage of modeling the statue, Armando also made the decision to resize it to a height of 17 meters, apart from the base.
See also List of public art in Washington, D.C., Ward 6 References External links Media related to Alexander Robey Shepherd (statue) at Wikimedia Commons
The Laykyun Sekkya statue depicts a standing Gautama Buddha next to a reclining statue of Gautama Buddha, depicting the scene of Mahaparinirvana (Mahaparinibbana).
He soon started travelling the world, and in London people have mistaken Dolk's works for being art by Banksy.
A Ranney Collector is a type of radial well used to extract water from an aquifer with direct connection to a surface water source like a river or lake.
Artist information Jill Sebastian got her inspiration at a young age when she saw a woman painting a mural depicting labor strikes.
An undated menu from his restaurant is labeled as "Don the Beachcomber's Delectable Thirty", which states "this souvenir menu is available at fifty cents".
The first was a 2009 addition next to the statue of a wave crashing down over the Kook, carrying a wire mesh outline of another surfer about to knock the Kook off his board.
On the federal level, since 1963 the General Services Administration has maintained the Art in Architecture Program, which allocates one-half of one percent of construction cost for art projects.
Genna Panzarella, the first woman to receive Italy's honorable Maestra Madonnari title at the International Grazi di Curtatone competition, participated as well as Vera Bugatti, who also holds the Maestra Madonnari title.
She was a student of well-known artists such as William Forsyth, Alexander Archipenko and Lorado Taft, who she worked on Fountain of Time with.
In 2018, the Photobooth traveled across the United States for Inside Out Vote, with 6,185 portraits, which was to awaken a sense of empowerment and provide voter registration groups a unique platform to register, energize and empower voters in communities throughout the U.S.
Biography Vallauri moved to Brazil with his family, settling first in the seaside town of Santos, where he trained the technique of engraving - depicting people in the port of Santos - and later to the state capital.
He was able to visit Salvation Mountain for the last time in May 2013; the visit was recorded by KPBS (TV).
See also Australia's big things List of world's largest roadside attractions Timbertown References External links Australian Big Things
Issa Rae spoke at the groundbreaking ceremony at the end of Black History Month on February 29, 2020.
Public art is art in any media that has been planned and executed with the intention of being staged in the physical public domain.
Backwash steps can be implemented using air and/or water to disrupt the biomat and recover flow whenever possible.
The topic of the procession was used to emphasize theatrical or satirical aspects; in this respect the picture has parallels to The Burial of the Sardine, painted between 1812 and 1819.
Over the following years, some trees were replaced due to deer damage, and stone was laid in the floor to echo the cross ribs and support beams of the cathedral.
About the artist Based out of Erie, Pennsylvania, Wyten's work focuses on the abstract steel sculpture.
The sculpture is an abstract form made of several steel bars oriented diagonally to the ground; it is rust-colored and installed on the lawn.
Completed globes were mounted along bicycle trails in Grant Park north of the Field Museum of Natural History, on Navy Pier, and along Michigan Avenue.
Awards and recognition 2025 Texas State Artist for Sculpture: One of Texas's highest artistic honors, awarded by the Texas Commission on the Arts.
Impact on politics While the immediate impact of street art on policy changes or political decision-making can be hard to measure, the art form's influence in shaping political discourse is undeniable.
Due to its complexity, wildstyle can be difficult to read for those unfamiliar with the form and process.
The Kongo cosmogram, a core symbol in Bakongo religion of the Kôngo people, represents man's origin, destiny, and path to salvation.
Viral phenomenon and public reaction The graffiti’s image quickly spread across various Serbian social media platforms, attracting a mixture of humorous reactions, satire, and criticism.
The project made public the list of all the companies registered in the Cayman Islands for the first time, exposing tax evasion practices by counterfeiting Certificate of Incorporation documents signed with his name.
Here are some photos of different types: Notes References Aquaculture Network Information Biology of the nitrogen cycle By Hermann Bothe, Stuart John Ferguson, William Edward Newton
Measuring 220 by 930 centimetres (87 by 366 in), Dublin's Last Supper is printed on vitreous enamel covering nine steel panels installed along Bloom Lane, part of the Millennium Walkway.
As Gaudí had created other flooring for the Casa Milà (namely an also-hexagonal parquet of oak and poplar), the tiles were only laid in less important rooms.
In Shaivism, the concept pictorially symbolises the transcendence of all duality including gender, with the spiritual lacking any distinctions, where energy and power (Shakti, Parvati) is unified and is inseparable with the soul and awareness (Brahman, Shiva).
The monument was redesigned in 1959 before an anticipated visit by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev, which was ultimately canceled.
Themes The Kalachakra Mandala for instance, contains 722 deities portrayed within the complex structure and geometry of the mandala itself.
The earliest are associated with the Pit Grave culture of the Pontic–Caspian steppe (and therefore with the Proto-Indo-Europeans according to the mainstream Kurgan hypothesis).
On the grounds of Yuzi Paradise (or 'Fool's Paradise') is also the Hotel of Modern Art." Wuhu Sculpture Park, Wuhu City, Anhui Province, China Zobon City Sculpture Garden, Shanghai More sculpture parks in China—listed on Birkbeck, University of London page You can add them in this section.
Epicenter is a public art work by artist Ernest Carl Shaw located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
William Moreau, a partner in the firm, stated, "He [Welsh] was instrumental in the growth of our firm....We wanted to try to establish a permanent memorial to him" (qtd.
A moon is on the proper front, a troll-like creature is on the proper left, a full sun is on the proper back, and a man with a long beard is on the proper right.
Trakas described the condition of the peninsula when he first saw it in a New York Times article with : “When I got here it was totally overgrown.
Some were in walls while others were found in the foundations (which were often re-used by the Victorians for their new buildings).
This time period may have been projected to end sometime between 7.3.0.0.0 and 7.5.0.0.0 — 295 and 256 BCE, respectively.
Crawford created a companion set of bronze doors for the House wing of the Capitol, the Revolutionary War Door.
Hebrew inscription:שמואל זיגלבוים (1895 – 1943), נציג הבונד במועצה הלאומי[ת] של ממשלת פולין הגולה בלונדון.
Each of the 15 cultural gems was choreographed, by five theatre makers: Peter Hayes, Natalie Fisher, Fiona du Plooy, Celeste Botha and Sensei Ndlovu.
The center claims that they look for inclusion of the Chicano student and seeks to create spaces to inspire the celebration of culture.
The Detroit Chimera Graffiti Mural is a mural by artist Kobie Solomon on the west-facing wall of the Russell Industrial Center's building number two located at 1600 Clay Avenue in Detroit, Michigan.
Elms were the main specimens used, along with pines, junipers, cypresses, and bamboos; plums were the favored fruit trees, along with peaches and oranges.
Artists featured include up-and-coming talents as well as established street artists from different cities around the world.
The 35 Snowdogs include designs based on, amongst others, ash trees, from which Ashford derives its name; a Kentish oast house, the Ashford coat of arms, the infinity symbol (invented by an Ashfordian), and a dog decorated by Mr Doodle (Sam Cox).
In collaboration with Alessandro Ludovico and Ubermorgen, Cirio created the project Amazon Noir to criticize the abuse of copyright laws for digital content misappropriated by private corporations.
After completing The Minute Man in 1875, French studied sculpture in Florence, Italy, for a year, during part of which he worked out of Thomas Ball's studio.
The fountains were fed by reservoirs in the upper garden, while the Samson fountain was fed by a specially-constructed aqueduct four kilometers in length.
Since December 1st 2016 the Monochrome Rose streetcar by Pipilotti Rist has served as a connection between the artworks along the 6.5-kilometre route connecting Cornavin and Bernex.
The work consists of 20 illuminated fiberglass canopies that provide light and also serve as shelter for users during inclement weather.
Joe McNamara Joe McNamara is noted in Ireland for a series of protests against Anglo-Irish Bank and the government's handling of the Irish financial crisis.
Rist had already submitted her project idea to the authorities in 2009, but it was not until seven years later that she was awarded the contract: "When I submitted it, there were hardly any themed or advertising streetcars.
Keim's focus on carefully preparing the painting ground came from his study of older frescos and their state of preservation.
Buddy Bears are painted, life-size fiberglass bear sculptures developed by German businesspeople Klaus and Eva Herlitz, in cooperation with sculptor Roman Strobl.
The two vertical arms of the sculpture evoke the religious scene of Moses holding the tablet of the Ten Commandments in his outstretched arms.
Besides being made of earth dug out and piled up, some of the geoglyphs are made by placing stones next to each other.
The manufacturers expect that in time the polystyrene (which is non-biodegradable) will be replaced with a polyurethane blend.
He or she may also work with food purveyors, catering directors, equipment vendors, financial consultants, the media, sanitation inspectors and dietitians.
A carafe () is a glass container with a flared lip used for serving liquids, especially wine and coffee.
French master chef, Jassintour Rozea (1721-1783) wrote several culinary books on haute cuisine (The Gift of Comus, 1752, and The Compleat Cook, Market Woman & Dairy Maid, 1756 - Library of Congress, USA) was also master chef to Charles Seymour, 6th.
The kilogram was in turn specified as the mass of the International Prototype of the Kilogram (a specific platinum/iridium cylinder) and was intended to be the same mass as the 1 litre of water referred to above.
Radappertization is derived from the combination of radiation and Appert, the name of the French scientist and engineer who invented sterilized food for the troops of Napoleon.
Regional and local variations Asia Indonesian cuisine has a variation on en papillote using leaves to steam food.
Today's US teaspoon is equivalent to 4.92892159375 ml, which is also 1⁄6 US fluid ounces, 1+1⁄3 US fluid drams, or 80 US minims.
It is served warm either plain or sprinkled with cocoa powder, cinnamon sugar, sometimes with fresh or canned fruits, jam, vanilla, choco bits; modern additions include ice cream, whipped cream, brown sugar, maple syrup, candied fruit, granola, pumpkin seeds etc.
Both the Oxford English Dictionary and The Dictionary of National Biography discuss the attribution.
Savoury Pease pudding was first made possible at the beginning of the 17th century with the advent of the pudding cloth.
History Various desserts consisting of whipped cream in pyramidal shapes with coffee, liqueurs, chocolate, fruits, and so on either in the mixture or poured on top were called crème en mousse ('cream in a foam'), crème mousseuse ('foamy cream'), mousse ('foam'), and so on, as early as 1768.
In the North East of England, a request for a half and half would more commonly produce a combination of Scotch ale and India pale ale (IPA).
Within health care, the chef is often responsible for the development of variations on mainstream meals, to fit different types of diets while still having an appetizing meal.
"mortaria") was one of a class of Ancient Roman pottery kitchen vessels, specifically a type of mortar.
History Dark cuisine typically sounds or looks bizarre or even disgusting but in some cases is more appealing than anticipated.
Depending on preference, meals would be eaten in one's own home or in a communal dining room, which could also serve as a meeting room and playroom for children.
Proponents of the series' categorization as "comedy" argue that the show unfolds as a dark comedy marked by ridiculous situations and comedic timing, relies on the comedic effect inherent to chaos, is a comedy of errors and is heavily characterized by back-and-forth banter or snark.
Plate An electric plate cooktop is similar to a coil cooktop but uses plate-like base supports as opposed to coil supports.
While rice is common to most regional cuisines in Asia, different varieties are popular in the different regions: Basmati rice is popular in South Asia, Jasmine rice in Southeast Asia, and long-grain rice in China and short-grain rice in Japan and Korea.
Often, barbecue meat items are marinated with olive oil and citrus juice mixtures, and then garnished with various herbs and spices; basic persillade and several variations are often put on top of the meat.
A chushkopek (Bulgarian: Чушкопек, literally: pepper-roaster) is a uniquely Bulgarian kitchen appliance for roasting peppers, aubergines or potatoes, generally used in salads.
Curry paste Pesto Cheese and milk Cheeses always start out as food pastes, but most of them become harder during the fermentation and curing processes.
See also Fish knife Fish fork References Further reading Rabinovitch, Benton Seymour; Macapia, Paul, eds.
It is a small flat strip of steel with a hinged sharpened cutting blade that lies flat against the body when not in use.
Porous bags Some dry products, typically grains, are sold in perforated plastic bags and designed for convenient cooking directly in the enclosure.
It was inspired by the "jerking" action the server would implement to drive the fountain handle back and forth when adding soda.
The oven technique is similar to the preparation of baked eggs, the difference being that the preparation of baked eggs does not have to employ a water bath.
In 2010, it was estimated that gutter oil represented 10% of China's edible oil market (with 1 in every 10 restaurants using it) and that 3 million tonnes of gutter oil were consumed in China annually, with a network of distributors of gutter oil across central and eastern China.
After the herb has been allowed to steep in the liquid for an appropriate period of time, it is removed (possibly by straining) leaving an infusion.
A wet grinder consists of granite stones rotating inside a metal drum with the help of an electric motor.
Modern bottle scrapers include a spatula-side with right angles useful for scraping vla out of these containers as well.
Hot salt frying is an old cooking technique, and is used in villages throughout Asia and other parts of the world.
In February 2018, five production runs of Instant Pot Gem 65 8-in-1 Multicookers were recalled because they were overheating and subsequently melting due to a manufacturing defect.
As the batter revolved on the hot grill, the pancake was flipped halfway through the cooking process by a shelf atop the grill.
Influential tea masters praised the rough, spontaneous, wabi-sabi, appearance of Japanese rural wares, mostly stoneware, over the perfection of Chinese-inspired porcelain made by highly skilled specialists.
Examples might include a chocolate brownie that is cosmetically disfigured but otherwise edible, or unused portions of cookie dough.
Prior to the introduction of the caboose the furnaces for cooking were, aboard three-deckers, placed on the middle deck, and aboard two-decked ships in the forecastle.
In the 1960s, as supermarkets began selling ready meals, cauliflower cheese was invoked by Elizabeth David as a symbol of good British cooking as she asked wistfully whether a day would come that "it's going to be clever to serve some relaxed English dish like cauliflower cheese".
In China the term had been used starting in 2012 to discuss stargazy pie, a Cornish dish that exemplified "all that the Chinese find baffling about Western cooking".
Other products where drum drying can be used are, for example, starches, breakfast cereals, baby food, and instant mashed potatoes to make them cold-water-soluble.
En papillote (French pronunciation: [ɑ̃ papijɔt]; French for "enveloped in paper"), or al cartoccio in Italian, is a method of cooking in which the food is put into a folded pouch or parcel and then baked.
Training Development chefs need sufficient training in culinary arts, experimental food methods and food science plus adequate experience in the actual preparation of dishes.
Additionally, foods with a higher water content are more subject to carry over cooking as water has a higher heat capacity and will have more heat to distribute throughout the food item.
In Holland and England competition grew between the noble families as to who could prepare the most lavish banquet.
Here the chef is typically responsible for designing dishes and ensuring that the local kitchen staff can create/prepare them to an exact standard.
Ironstone china: patented in 1813, often classed as earthenware, but very strong and vitreous, and popular for wares with heavy usage.
In addition to goods being traded, knowledge of food preparation and also worked to add to the field of botany.
In 2013 the fitness activities, lectures and 24-hour fruit bar (as well as gourmet fruit-based dinners) drew in excess of 600 participants for the 7-day festival.
See also Propane torch Lighter Blowtorch List of cooking appliances Oxy-fuel welding and cutting References External links LPG Burner
South Asia In South Asia, regular unstrained yogurt ("curd"), made from cow or water buffalo milk, is often sold in disposable clay bowls called kulhar.
According to family lore, in 1892 Alfredo began to work in a restaurant located in Piazza Rosa that was run by his mother, Angelina.
It raised an unprecedented $100,000 via Kickstarter in 2013, was named Publication of the Year in 2014 by the James Beard Foundation, inducted into the Library of Congress in 2019, and won the IACP Digital Media Award for Best Group Food Blog in 2020.
Ebon Moss-Bachrach as Richard "Richie" Jerimovich, Michael's best friend, the de facto manager of the restaurant; later maître d'hôtel of The Bear.
Using hands to apply a moderate pressure and to rotate the tube on a cutting board or a table makes the skin come off the clove.
In the end of the 1990s, the microwave technology had reached a stage where Haamer's idea was patented.
References External links Micvac is mentioned on the website SIK - the Swedish Institute for Food and Biotechnology.
Baking, grilling, or broiling food, especially starchy foods, until a toasted crust is formed generates significant concentrations of acrylamide.
Though the prevalent license-permit raj in Indian bureaucracy ended for most retailing in the 1990s, it continues in this trade.
In 2012 the Moroccan government planned for increased production, then around 2,500 tonnes, to 4,000 tonnes by 2020.
The occurrence of starch degradation into sugar by the enzyme amylase was most commonly known to take place in the Chloroplast, but that has been proven wrong.
The pellicle plays a role in producing better smoked products as it acts as a protective barrier for the food and also plays a role in enhancing the flavor and color produced by the smoke.
Other tourist businesses use substitutes instead of vegetation or use an imu pao, an above ground variation of the imu.
Related works An earlier rejected study by Karsten, Oppstilling ved vindu is located on the back side of his painting Pløyemark from 1909.
Ymer is mixed with sugar, gelatin, and cream to create the desert ymerfromage (fromage meaning dessert cream in Danish).
In a related usage, the amount of a reagent, whose precise quantity is unimportant, will sometimes be given in terms of the number of drops, often from a glass pipette.
External links Media related to Sinks at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of sink at Wiktionary
Yeast extracts Yeast extracts, usually as byproduct from brewing beer, are made into food pastes, usually dark-brown in colour.
Characteristics Guiso's name gives the implication that it is made up of foods fried rehogado that are cooked in sauce.
Comparing the coddling cooking technique to boiling when it comes to whole eggs, the process of coddling takes a longer time due to the use of a lower cooking temperature, but it produces a more tender egg.
Due to its portability, it is widely used in the Horn of Africa and Southwestern Asia; especially by nomads.
In 1985, Henri was joined by his son Niels Peteri, and on 1 September 1987, they founded the company Henri Peteri B.V., the brand name 'Quooker' was later created by Niels.
Cheesemakers also need to be skilled in grading cheese to assess quality, assessing defects and suitability for release, and cheese ripening.
A sink should have a clear counter area of at least 60 cm (24 in) on one side, and at least 45 cm (18 in) on the other side.
Despite the exclusive nature of the job and the status levels of those they prepared food for, the occupation of the cook during Ming times was not a highly coveted profession due to the amount of animal killing involved with being a cook.
DCI Cheese Company Sheana Davis – maker of Delice de la Vallee and other fresh cheeses and owner of the Epicurean Connection.
maxima, related, yet different pumpkin species, yielded the following ranges for the percentage of several fatty acids: The sum of myristic and palmitic acid content ranged from 12.8 to 18.7%.
Various spices can be added to the Turkmen bread: cumin, cinnamon, olives, mustard seeds, sunflower seeds, and other flavoring ingredients.
Examples Examples include ice cream topped with chili crisp; a combination dreamed up by chef Christine Flynn of "Velveeta foam, spherified Gatorade and Doritos crushed into a decorative "soil"; and "struggle plates": documentation of home cooking disasters that the unfortunate cook ate anyway.
Specifically, perilla oil is more common in the southern part of Korea as perilla is cultivated more easily in the warmer areas.
Flambéing is often associated with the tableside presentation of certain liqueur-drenched dishes set aflame, such as Bananas Foster or Cherries Jubilee when the alcohol is ignited and results in a flare of blue-tinged flame.
This equation is used to find the zeta potential, which is calculated to find the electrokinetic potential in colloidal dispersions.
"They dressed in strong 'stuff' gowns and quilted petticoats; their hair, caps and bonnets were flattened into one indistinguishable mass upon their heads.
The addition of methanol, which is poisonous, renders denatured alcohol unfit for consumption, as ingesting denatured alcohol may result in serious injury or death.
Ashbourne patented the first biscuit cutter in the US, useful for cutting multiple cookies, cakes, or baking powder biscuits at once.
In organic synthesis, a synthetic procedure will often call for the addition of a reagent "dropwise" with the aid of a syringe or a dropping funnel.
Cupbearers are mentioned further in 1 Kings 10:5, and 2 Chronicles 9:4, where they, among other evidences of royal splendor, are stated to have impressed the Queen of Sheba with Solomon's glory.
Larger fire blankets, for use in laboratory and industrial situations, are often made of wool – sometimes treated with a flame retardant chemical such as hexafluorozirconate and zirconium acetate.
Timeline 1950s – Morrison took on its first contract food service job, catering for the set of the movie The Greatest Show on Earth.
The mushikamado is a round clay pot with a removable domed clay lid and is typically found in Southern Japan.
The cooks and caterers guild – informally known as the traiteurs – progressively claimed the right to make any sophisticated meals, leaving inns and taverns to mainly make roast or grilled meat.
T Tillamook County Creamery Association – dairy cooperative headquartered in Tillamook County, Oregon, best known for its cheddar cheese.
All six units are the traditional British equivalents of the US customary cup and the metric cup, used in situations where a US cook would use the US customary cup and a cook using metric units the metric cup.
Further reduction of glucosinolate levels remains important for the use of rapeseed meal in animal feed.
These trades were facilitated by rich merchant states that traded with them, the most notable being Venice.
Tingvollost, family farm in Tingvoll Municipality in Norway, makes the Kraftkar (World Champion in World Cheese Awards, 2016).
The formation of a relatively rigid yet flexible matrix from egg white is an important component in baking cakes and underpins many desserts based on meringue.
It is considered offensive to the dead and gods to put chopsticks vertically into food as it mimics this practice.
References External links The ORIGINAL Christmas Dessert, includes an explanation and example usage of pudding cloth
Since the blood is no longer being circulated through the body, the lactic acid starts to break down the muscle and connective tissues around it.
The bioavailability of some vitamins such as thiamin, vitamin B6, niacin, folate, and carotenoids are increased with cooking by being freed from the food microstructure.
In the United States, a 1980s gourmet food movement evolved from a long-term division between elitist (or "gourmet") tastes and a populist aversion to fancy foods.
They are also used for balling other soft fleshy fruits, trying small bits of other foods such as ice cream, or making chocolate truffles.
She then cooked at Chez Panisse and was a student for eighteen years at the San Francisco Zen Center.
It is a variant of sinangag (garlic fried rice) and is similar to bagoong fried rice, which uses bagoong (shrimp paste).
The French state bought it in the sale of Soult's collection in 1858 and it has hung in the Louvre, in Paris, ever since.
The stove serves a dual purpose: it acts as a platform for cooking and, when flipped upside down, as a windbreak to shelter the flame during cooking.
Jewish cuisine In Ashkenazi Jewish cuisine, meatloaf is called Klops (Hebrew: קלופס) and can be served cold or hot.
Electrical stoneware: historically used for electrical insulators, although it has been replaced by electrical porcelain.
This is by virtue of the heat retention properties of the ceramic shell with temperatures up to 750 °F (400 °C).
Nutmeg graters are normally metal, cylindrical or half-cylindrical, the surface perforated with small rasped holes.
Sujeo (Korean: 수저) is the Korean term for the set of eating utensils commonly used to eat Korean cuisine.
Rotating horizontally over embers: In this version the meat may be subject to smoke from dripping fat that burns.
Wu's food stall attracted a wide clientele including diplomats and wealthy businesspeople despite serving a relatively cheap and unsophisticated dish; however, it was later destroyed by flooding originating from a typhoon during which Wu almost drowned.
On some models vertical blades cut to produce julienne, or a wavy blade is used that produces crinkle cuts.
They smoked small pipes of tobacco, took snuff, drank gin and were known for their colourful language." In the 18th century, fishwives frequently appeared in satires as fearsome scourges of fops and foreigners.
See also Cream of Wheat Halva List of porridges Sago pudding Rice pudding Tapioca pudding Milk kissel Suji ka halwa == References ==
Preparation Ingredients used in Note by Note cuisine are called compounds, which include water, ethanol, sucrose, protein, amino acids and lipids.
2011 - Morrison Management Specialist was divided into three sectors, under its parent company Compass Group (Morrison Healthcare, Morrison Senior Living, Touchpoint Support Services) References External links Morrison Healthcare Morrison Community Living
As of 2020, the main cosmetics products containing argan oil are face creams, lip glosses, shampoos, moisturizers, and soaps.
A honey dipper (also called a honey dripper, honey wand, honey stick, honey spoon, or honey drizzler) is a kitchen utensil used to collect viscous liquid (generally honey or syrup) from a container, which is then dispensed at another location.
Production Oil from pumpkin seeds is extracted by solvent extraction or by supercritical carbon dioxide methods.
Mithaecus's cookbook was an early one, but most of it has been lost; Athenaeus quotes one short recipe in his Deipnosophistae.
In most homemade diets for dogs, a variety of ingredients are included which may include: Fresh raw meat (mostly lean meat with the exception of pork for some dogs, beef is the most commonly used) Vegetables such as squash, pumpkin, leafy greens, carrots, parsley, etc.
Traditional spurtles have stylised thistles at the top, while modern ones often have a smooth taper.
In 1911, General Electric produced a prototype electric waffle iron, and production began around 1918.
She has created ‘Eat The Book’ experiences, celebrating African food from African writing by creating the dishes at literary and arts festivals.
Diamond Surface (Hydrogen-Terminated) Diamond surfaces with hydrogen termination are hydrophobic, making them suitable for non-stick applications.
Noteworthy dishes pioneered by Adrià himself include his potato omelette, which consists of onion jam, liquid egg, and potato foam layered atop one another in a milkshake glass.
Production and distribution The burjiko is made from sepiolite mined from Somalia's central district of El Buur.
In the middle of the 18th century, the chocolatiere was commonly featured in family portraits, intended to represent an ideal maintained among the aristocracy of social situations marked by temperance as an alternative to alcohol.
Cooking spray is a spray form of an oil as a lubricant, lecithin as an emulsifier, and a propellant such as nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide or propane.
Applications Brazing, soldering, plumbing Often used as daily task tools, butane torches work very well for home improvement and work to solve problems with plumbing, soldering, and brazing.
The tube peeler was invented by Ben Omessi, a retired American architect who was designing home items for people with disabilities and it was patented in 1998.
The wash water is heated with an in-tank electric heat element and mixed with a cleaning solution, and is used repeatedly from one load to the next.
See also Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Bill, 2012 Tea lady, a similar occupation in Britain == References ==
European machines and some high-end North American machines use passive methods for drying – a stainless steel interior helps this process and some models use heat exchange technology between the inner and outer skin of the machine to cool the walls of the interior and speed up drying.
Denaturation is the process by which foods or liquids are made unpleasant or dangerous to consume; it is done by adding a substance known as a denaturant.
One of the most pressing jobs of mashgichim, however, is the checking in and verification of shipments.
The spurtle (or "spurtel", "spurtil", "spirtle", or "spartle") is a wooden Scottish kitchen tool, dating from the 15th century, that is used to stir porridge, soups, stews, and broths.
The work done by the school was later expanded into the two-volume Mastering the Art of French Cooking series, published in 1961 and 1970, and Child wore the logo of the school as a badge for much of her television career.
Proponents of the whole prey model diet believe dogs and cats are natural carnivores and do not have any nutritional needs besides what is found in meat, bones, and organs.
Sticky candies, such as Mike and Ike, that are often sold in bulk vending machines may be sprayed with cooking spray to keep them from sticking together in the machines.
Horsehair mesh tamises were previously common, but are now difficult to find outside of antique stores.
Background In 2003, the Rio hotel and casino introduced their bevertainers, who worked as cocktail servers and as entertainers.
Brightly painted and artfully arranged, arabber carts became a common sight on the streets of Baltimore.
The concept of cooking in a tagine appears in the famous One Thousand and One Nights, an Arabic-language story collection from the 9th century.
In late 19th-century recipes, the custard is elaborately flavored and scented with citron, orange flower water, and vanilla sugar.
Contrastingly, frothing skim milk, which has significantly less amounts of fats and protein, will produce a lighter and thinner foam.
A heavy ganache can require twice as much dark chocolate as cream by weight, or 2.5 times as much milk chocolate or white chocolate.
It is made of salted strained yogurt or diluted yogurt mixed with cucumbers, garlic, salt, olive oil, red wine vinegar, sometimes with lemon juice, and herbs such as dill, mint, parsley and thyme.
Heating may be either direct, by means of a parabolic mirror which concentrates sunlight on the underside of the mitad, or indirect, by focusing the sun's rays on a boiler to generate steam, which can be used to heat the mitad.
This allowed for a clear view between the two spaces—enabling the person cooking to keep an eye on children in the dining room, while making kitchen activities visible from the adjoining space.
Archaeological excavations have uncovered pottery cooking vessels known as yan steamers: a yan was composed of two vessels, a zeng with a perforated floor surmounted on a pot or caldron with a tripod base and a top cover.
Namerō is grilled directly on an iron griddle, stuffed into scallop or abalone shells or wrapped in sarutoriibara or camellia leaves.
147.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Bishop's recipe includes a note that "in some parts of the country" the hare is cooked in ale with bacon.
Etymology Used in English since the late 18th century, the word cuisine—meaning manner or style of cooking—is borrowed from the French for 'style of cooking' (literally 'kitchen'), as originally derived from Latin coquere, 'to cook'.
They are normally made of a fine metal mesh or a metal sheet with numerous small holes, to allow steam to exit the pan but not oil.
Gallery See also List of cheese dishes Notes References External links Recipe from A Book of Household Management by Isabella Beeton Archived 2007-03-04 at the Wayback Machine
As largely a commercial appliance, dipper well valves are typically kept at full flow during all serving hours.
Contestants Challenges Episode 1: Premiere Episode 2: Meringue Episode 3: Patisserie Episode 4: Cookies Episode 5: Desserts Episode 6: Fruits Episode 7: Argentina Since this episode was 3 challenges.
Dry-aging beef For dry-aged beef, the meat is hung in a room kept between 33–37 degrees Fahrenheit (1–3 degrees Celsius), with relative humidity of around 85%.
Due to their health aspect (cooking without any oil), food steamers are used extensively in health-oriented diets such as cuisine minceur, some raw food diets, the Okinawa diet, a macrobiotic diet, or the CRON-diet.
It is important to trap heat energy and reduce convection by isolating the air inside the cooker from the air outside the cooker.
Although many recipes require eggs to be at room temperature, it is easiest to separate eggs that are cold.
The oil content of the actual amaranth grain ranges from 4.8 to 8.1%, which is relatively low compared to other sources of seed oil.
Butter ganache: More common in Europe, this is made with warm, tempered chocolate and softened butter.
Typical uses Sweet Prior to the 19th century, the English Christmas pudding was boiled in a pudding cloth.
This function is only applicable to programs which do not require user intervention throughout the process and in which ingredients may safely stay at room temperature for the delay.
Each issue has 12 recipes which are selected as nutritious, ethnically diverse, and inexpensive to make, as well as games, exercises, and food facts.
The JCCoE also runs the annual Joint Culinary Training Exercise (JCTE) competition, the largest American Culinary Federation (ACF) competition in North America.
It is customary in the United States to tip the cocktail waitress for serving drinks, even in casinos which offer free drinks to active gamblers.
It premiered on April 8, 2018, and it is hosted by Paula Chaves with judges Christophe Krywonis, Damián Betular and Pamella Villar.
For this reason, it is important to keep the heat low and the poaching time to a bare minimum, which will also preserve the flavor of the food.
Finding foods that provide sufficient amounts of calcium to maintain a good ratio is challenging, as many foods that are high in calcium are also high in phosphorus.
The company also runs a competition every year, 'Bundts Across America', celebrating the best Bundt cake creations as well as holding cooking classes twice a week.
Kettle corn, a sweet variety of popcorn that is typically mixed or seasoned with a light-colored refined sugar, salt, and oil.
Compassion of South Africa, a non-sectarian Christian action group opposing Apartheid, and the particular assistance from Brigid Oppenheimer facilitated Shirley's design and marketing and published a comprehensive recipe book with a lot of graphics to help illiterate users follow the recipes.
Deep-fried food has been a core part of the culture of the American South with many restaurants solely serving deep-fried foods.
Other restaurants in the city of New Orleans soon followed, with the dish gaining in popularity with locals and tourists alike.
Types Beverage openers vary in size but commonly include a glass bottle crown cork remover, glass bottle threaded metal crown cork cap grip for greater twisting torque, a plastic bottle cap grip for greater twisting torque and a stay tab lever for metal beverage cans.
The temperatures indicated above are the peak temperatures in the cooking process, so the meat should be removed from the heat source when it is some degrees cooler (depending on power of heat source, size of cut).
It was used as a safer form of heating equipment than was available previously and could be used to cook small morsels of food.
Green sauce or greensauce is a family of cold, uncooked sauces based on chopped herbs, including the Spanish and Italian salsa verde, the French sauce verte, the German grüne Soße or Frankfurter grie Soß (Frankfurt dialect), the British mint sauce and greensauce, and the Argentinian chimichurri.
Carryover cooking is often used as a finishing step in preparation of foods that are roasted or grilled, and should be accounted for in recipes as it can increase the internal temperature of foods by temperatures between 5 and 25 degrees Fahrenheit (3–14°C).
Slow cookers do not provide sufficient heat to compensate for loss of moisture and heat due to frequent removal of the lid, e.g., to add and remove food in perpetual stews, (pot-au-feu, olla podrida).
The outfits were initially not received well by the co-founders, but Hefner advised that it could work once changes were made.
Most schools also offer training in resume preparation, how to act at a job interview, and where they should start looking for employment.
In American collectibles and antiques, toleware refers to kitchen-related objects created from metal, typically tin or thin steel, and are often in decorative styles such as Arts and Crafts and Pennsylvania Dutch.
Uses in food Macadamia nut oil possesses properties conducive to high-heat cooking, such as a high smoke point and resistance to oxidative degradation.
After metrication in Canada, milk and other liquids in pre-packaged containers came in metric sizes so conversion issues could no longer arise.
With the pestle tip placed in the bottom of the strainer, it is rolled against the sides of the device to work liquids and soft food through it.
However, such refiners can also have illegal side business, as the prices attained by selling it as cooking oil are much higher than if it is sold to the chemical or energy industries such as KBR Energy.
These scenarios also lead Western trends toward blades tempered to a lower level of hardness (and thus lower brittleness).
The starch prevents over-cooking the eggs, and sets the cream (usually requiring it to be beaten or whipped before use).When gelatin is added, it is known as crème anglaise collée ([kʁɛm ɑ̃ɡlɛz kɔle]).
Khorovats, khashlama, fish like the sevan trout, and khash are the most popular meat-dishes that are prepared by using a tonir.
It is then served with a variety of toppings including but not limited to white cheese, cinnamon powder and pistachios.
Les Dames d'Escoffier is an international society of professional women involved in the food, fine beverage, and hospitality industries.
In French Provincial Cooking (1960), Elizabeth David gives a list of typical items in a batterie de cusine: Other kitchen implements used by French, English, American and Canadian cooks and food writers include: References Sources Beck, Simone; Louisette Bertholle; Julia Child (2012) [1961].
Related Malmö, Sweden, hosts the Disgusting Food Museum which opened in 2018 and encourages visitors to "question what they find disgusting".
He decided that 24 letters were not sufficient to capture the English language, and devised instead an alphabet of 40 letters.
Romanization standards include the following: Arabic Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft (1936): Adopted by the International Convention of Orientalist Scholars in Rome.
The lettering used by British artists did not always follow the Trajan capital model, often adding changes such as serifs on the top of the 'M' and 'N', and of course the lower case, Arabic numerals and italics which the Romans did not have.
The accented vowels are used in dictionaries to indicate pronunciation, and ⟨g⟩ with tilde is only present in older works.
'imperishable, indestructible, fixed, immutable') is a consonant letter together with any vowel diacritics in a Brahmic script.
Crown Script The Crown script (خط التاج, Khat al Taj)—is a modern Arabic script fabricated by Egyptian calligrapher Mohammad Mahfouz in 1931 and proposed by then-King Fuad I.
After 1947, with the need for translation of Bible, Latin scripts for Bunun, Paiwan, Taroko, Atayal, and Amis were created.
⟨main⟩ / ⟨mane⟩, ⟨buy⟩ / ⟨by⟩ / ⟨bye⟩, ⟨stare⟩ / ⟨stair⟩, ⟨sight⟩ / ⟨site⟩ / ⟨cite⟩, ⟨none⟩ / ⟨nun⟩, ⟨scene⟩ / ⟨seen⟩, ⟨tail⟩ / ⟨tale⟩ Some words are respelt where an alternate spelling can be used instead of an apostrophe.
In May 1964, the General List of Simplified Chinese Characters (简化字总表) was published by the Chinese Character Reform Press as a new standard list of simplified Chinese characters, which largely ratified and revised the 'Chinese Character Simplification Scheme.
It denotes a glottal stop [ʔ] in orthographies of many languages, such as Nenets (in Cyrillic script) and the artificial Klingon language.
If the individual items of a list are long, complex, affixed with description, or themselves contain commas, semicolons may be preferred as separators, and the list may be introduced with a colon.
File managers such as Windows Explorer (since Windows XP) and Midnight Commander utilize natural sorting by default to display file lists.
This has different spacing from \mid and \parallel, which are relational operators: a \mid b \parallel c is set as a ∣ b ∥ c {\displaystyle a\mid b\parallel c} .
References External links eoconv – a tool to convert text between various orthographic substitutions
By the time of Lorrain's retirement in 1932, the status of Mizoram as one of the most Christian states of modern India, was already anticipated.
Unicode 1.0 (1991) and ISO 10646 (1993) took the first 256 code positions from ISO 8859-1, resulting in SHY at Unicode code point of U+00AD.
A yig mgo is a textual caret mark in Tibetan script which is one of the possible markers for a new text or page.
forehead once rhymed with horrid but is now pronounced with the second syllable as by 85% of American speakers and 65% of British speakers.
Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters, LTD, 2005, 208 p., ISBN 1-85359-785-6 Diethelm Prowe: Review of Sally Johnson, Spelling Trouble?
Nasal vowels are written with a cedilla: a̧ etc., rather than with a tilde to leave room for tone marking, or with a single following nasal consonant: aŋ etc.
For human readers, the difference is imperceptible and unimportant but it has significance in text processing applications.
This is the fourth edition of the standard and was published on 2016-02-15, corrected on 2016-05-01 and covers up to and including Unicode 8.0.
Geschichte der Fabeldichtung in England bis zu John Gay (1726): Nebst Neudruck von Bullokars "Fables of Æsop" 1585, "Booke at Large" 1580, "Bref Grammar for English" 1586, und "Pamphlet for Grammar" 1586.
Conversely, to soften ⟨c⟩ or ⟨g⟩ (to /tʃ/ or /dʒ/ respectively) before a back vowel (⟨a⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨u⟩), a silent ⟨i⟩ is inserted: ⟨–cio–⟩, ⟨–giu–⟩, etc.
2nd Thessalonians, Titus, and Philemon were excluded because they were too short to give reliable samples.
See also Book of the Dean of Lismore Islay Charter Glenmasan Manuscript Notes References MacPharlain, Calum Lamh-Sgrìobhainn Mhic Rath, (Dundee) Thomson, Derick S.
One example was ä → ae in the sense of alphabetising any word with ä as if the letter were replaced by "ae".
An official script is a writing system that is specifically designated to be official in the constitutions or other applicable laws of countries, states, and other jurisdictions.
Its significance is derived from its role as a "syllable", the essential and embryonic core of speech.
This has received particular attention when menu and ribbon titles appeared in all caps in Visual Studio 2012 and Office 2013, respectively.
Consonants Uncommon consonants that do not make a phonemic contrast within a language with similar but more common consonants are not provided for.
In practice, however, the orthographies of such languages entail at least a certain amount of deviation from the ideal of exact grapheme–phoneme correspondence.
Hebrew Popular Journalism : Birth and Development in Ottoman Palestine, London and N.Y, Routledge, 2019 (History of Ben-Yehuda's Press) Hassan, Hassan Ahmad; al-Kayyali, Abdul-Hameed (2018).
Ben Naphtali and Ben Asher Ben Naphtali wrote a Bible with vowels, accents, and Masorah, which differed in some respects from that of his contemporary and rival, Aaron ben Moses ben Asher (generally called Ben Asher).
He was beatified in 1951 by Pope Pius XII and is commemorated by the Catholic Church on 29 January and 2 July.
Founded by Jeff Rubin in 2004, National Punctuation Day simply promotes the correct usage of punctuation.
In general in German, long stressed vowels are followed by single consonants, and short stressed vowels by double consonants.
The Mundi script spread to other parts of India by the 17th or 18th century, with it having influence on merchant records written in Karnataka in Kannada script, particularly the form and style of writing.
The iNiQUiTY BBS software based on Renegade had a feature to support two variants of this automatically: either all vowels would be uppercase or all vowels would be lowercase, with the consonants as the other case.
One of the few places where ano teleia exists is on the Microsoft Windows Polytonic Greek keyboard (having the driver name KBDHEPT.DLL).
In HTML5, the tag reappeared but its meaning was changed significantly: it now "represents a span of inline text which should be rendered in a way that indicates that it has a non-textual annotation".
With the advent of the Internet, the all-caps style is more often used for emphasis; however, it is considered poor netiquette by some to type in all capitals, and said to be tantamount to shouting.
An early system to overcome this, still used today, is matres lectionis, where four of these letters, alef, he, vav and yud also serve as vowel letters.
ḥarakāt (In Arabic: حركات also called تشكيل tashkīl): (ــَـ) fatḥa (a) (ــِـ) kasra (i) (ــُـ) ḍamma (u) (ــْـ) sukūn (no vowel) The ḥarakāt or vowel points serve two purposes: They serve as a phonetic guide.
Modern examples: I have the bed still, it is in every way suitable for the old house where I live now (E.
Medieval European charters written in Latin are largely made up of such abbreviated words with contraction marks and other abbreviations; only uncommon words were given in full.
A complete list of these differences can be found in Mishael Ben Uzziel's treatise Kitāb Al-Khilaf, the book of the Ḥillufim (Differences), which is thought to have been written before 1050.
History Zalgo text was pioneered in 2004 by a Something Awful forum member who created image macros of glitched or distorted cartoon characters exclaiming "Zalgo!" The text in the images was often distorted, and the style of the distortion became popularised as "Zalgo text".
RISC OS uses dots to separate levels of the hierarchical file system when writing path names—similar to / (forward-slash) in Unix-based systems and \ (back-slash) in MS-DOS-based systems and the Windows NT systems that succeeded them.
Further problems are caused by examples of confusion with English, such as connection (incorrect) and connexion (correct).
Programmers originally called the exclamation mark by its full name or "shriek", but Unix popularized the "bang" name.
If the hamza is final: If a short vowel precedes, the hamza is written over the letter (alif, wāw, or yāʾ) corresponding to the short vowel.
IBM code page 850 (an MS-DOS character set covering all ISO 8859-1 characters) placed it at position 240 = 0xF0.
The example of the Fitz prefix, a Norman French patronymic, is applied by ignoring the following space, which may or may not occur.
In his edition of the works of Aristotle, which appeared in 1483 or 1484, the Milanese Renaissance humanist Francesco Filelfo marked literal and appropriate quotes with oblique double dashes on the left margin of each line.
Some sources now state it is acceptable for monospaced fonts to be single-spaced today, although other references continue to specify double spacing for monospaced fonts.
The trademark symbol ™ is a symbol to indicate that the preceding mark is a trademark, specifically an unregistered trademark.
Maunoir was found to be uniquely suited for the difficult task of evangelizing the impoverished people of Brittany.
Vowels Vowels that appear phonetically in Cameroonian languages, but do not make phonemic distinctions, are not provided for.
Etymology Liddell and Scott's Greek–English Lexicon gives the basic meaning of korōnis as "crook-beaked" from which a general meaning of "curved" is supposed to have derived.
Budapest: Rovas Foundation, ISBN 978-963-88437-4-6 External links The Szarvas Rovas inscription on the RovasPedia Jenő Demeczky, Dr.
Romani in North Macedonia Romani in North Macedonia is written with the following alphabet: This alphabet is used in the educational system in North Macedonia for Romani-speaking students.
However, this is a doubling of the trigraph ⟨sch⟩ to indicate that the preceding vowel is short rather than itself being a hexagraph.
(The reading is not in any particular order; the explanation will start with the glyph in the center and then go clockwise.) In the center of the diagram is a dog's head, meaning it is a 'dog day'.
Trediakovsky was also a prolific translator of classical authors, medieval philosophers, and French literature.
Die feministische Sprachkritik und ihre Auswirkungen auf die deutsche Gegenwartssprache [Feminist Linguistic Criticism and its Effect on Contemporary German] (in German).
However, combining characters are required in half-width kana, which does not provide any precomposed characters in order to fit within a single byte.
A special letter ɀ was suggested for the sound /ʑ/, and along with it the digraph dɀ for /d͡ʑ/ (modern dź and dzi).
Chinese character The CJK Symbols and Punctuation block contains one Chinese character: U+3007 〇 IDEOGRAPHIC NUMBER ZERO.
While Arabic is dominant in the Arabian Peninsula today, some modern South Arabian languages, though endangered, survive, with several hundred thousand speakers across Yemen (including Socotra) and Oman.
The letters eth (⟨ð⟩, capital ⟨Ð⟩), transliterated as ⟨d⟩, and thorn (⟨þ⟩, capital ⟨Þ⟩), transliterated as ⟨th⟩, are widely used in the Icelandic language.
Although Modern Mandarin has numerous polysyllabic words, and each syllable is written with a distinct character, the conceptual link between character and word or at least morpheme remains strong, and no need is felt for word separation apart from what characters already provide.
In addition to the manuscript written by Crux there are various excerpts deposited in the archives of Prague Castle.
More popularly known as "Pu Buanga Dictionary", Dictionary of the Lushai Language became the foundation of Mizo language and literature.
Early interest In 1965, Richard Isbell created the Americana typeface for American Type Founders and included the interrobang as one of the characters.
Moving back to traditional characters on the mainland has the potential to be difficult, confusing, and time-consuming.
The characters were often depicted bleeding from their eyes, and forum members interpreted Zalgo as an unimaginable, eldritch apocalyptic figure.
Letters with single bar Letters with double bar See also Strikethrough X-bar theory (formal linguistics) Parallel (operator) Notes == References ==
Ambiguity Clarity of simplified characters Proponents feel that some traditional characters are too similar in appearance, such as 書 (shū) "book", 晝 (zhòu) "daytime", and 畫/畵 (huà) "drawing": in contrast, the simplified forms which are 书, 昼, and 画 respectively are much more distinct.
Lateral masking is a problem for the human visual perception of identical or similar entities in close proximity.
The Modern Language Association (MLA) used to indicate that an ellipsis must include spaces before and after each dot in all uses.
In sociolinguistics, a double or triple slash may also be used in the transcription of a traditional sociolinguistic interview or in other type of linguistic elicitation to represent simultaneous speech, interruptions, and certain types of speech disfluencies.
Postal romanization (1906): Early standard for international addresses Wade–Giles (1892): Transliteration.
However, some logograms still meaningfully depict the meaning of the morpheme they represent visually.
Since the Malay sections of publishing houses were mainly manned by members of the Literary Movement 1950 or their sympathisers, the Movement's style of spelling seemed to gain a widespread currency through published works.
310–320 – 403) used both a horizontal slash or hook (with or without dots) and an upright and slightly slanting dagger to represent an obelus.
The Coptic alphabet originated as a case of garshunography, the use of the Greek alphabet to write the Egyptian language.
Kateřina Voleková, Czech translation Ondřej Koupil, English translation Marcela Koupilová and David Livingstone.
English General overview In English orthography, the pronunciation of hard ⟨c⟩ is /k/ and of soft ⟨c⟩ is generally /s/.
In place of the first s in a double s, Mathewson recreated the long s in these copies, a practice widely used for both personal and business correspondence by her family, who lived on the remote island of Yell, Shetland.
Asemic art, after all, represents a kind of language that's universal and lodged deep within our unconscious minds.
Its purpose is to "indicate minor breaks in text", to call attention to a passage, or to separate sub-chapters in a book.
This action unwittingly introduced into the Pampangan literary scene the bitter orthographic conflict which had by then begun to take root at the national level between writers supportive of one spelling system and the other.
In languages that capitalize all nouns, reverential capitalization of the first two letters or the whole word can sometimes be seen.
Oliver, Lethaby introduced the Trajan's Column inscription to Johnston and as professor of design at the Royal College of Art put casts of the inscription of Trajan's Column as a standard for students to follow.
Numbers Lycian uses the following number symbols: I (vertical stroke) = 1, < ("less than" sign) (or, rarely, L or C or V or Y) = 5, O (circle) = 10; a horizontal stroke — is one half; a symbol somewhat like our letter H may mean 100.
Austroasiatic languages Khmer script (for Khmer language) Khom script (for Bahnaric languages) Chữ Nôm (historical writing for Vietnamese language) Austronesian languages Most Austronesian languages use Latin script today.
The hyphen is sometimes confused with dashes (en dash –, em dash — and others), which are wider, or with the minus sign −, which is also wider and usually drawn a little higher to match the crossbar in the plus sign +.
This system was widely used within the country but differed from the orthographies of neighboring countries of West Africa, as developed in the wake of the 1966 Bamako expert meeting on harmonizing orthographies of the cross-border languages of the region.
An open source implementation of UCA is included with the International Components for Unicode, ICU.
John Mace's Teach Yourself Arabic Verbs and Essential Grammar presents alternative forms in almost all cases when hamza is followed by a long ū.
The term featural was introduced by Geoffrey Sampson to describe the Korean alphabet and Pitman shorthand.
This practice was found in Phoenician, Aramaic, Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, and continues today with Ethiopic, though there, whitespace is gaining ground.
While many sources provide default recommendations on whether to use the serial comma as a matter of course, most also include exceptions for situations where it is necessary to avoid ambiguity (see Serial comma § Recommendations by style guides).
In 1989, following a meeting on reform of the alphabet in 1988, it was decided to adopt an orthography similar to the African reference alphabet used elsewhere in the region.
It discussed for the first time in Russian literature such poetic genres as the sonnet, the rondeau, the madrigal, and the ode.
יענקל׳ה – Yankale (as in Yankale Bodo), or the words חבר׳ה – [ˈχevre], 'guys' (which is the Yiddish pronunciation of Hebrew חבורה [χabuˈra] 'company'), or תכל׳ס – [ˈtaχles], 'in the end' or 'to conclude', from Hebrew תכלית [taχˈlit], 'ending'.
With alphabetic writing systems, phonological awareness plays a central role in reading acquisition; while phonological awareness in Chinese is much less important.
The device has a variety of uses, and it usually denotes an intentional omission or a logical "break" of varying degree in a written work.
In another textbook of the Evenki language, a standard alphabet, with the addition of the letter Ө ө.
Even for a lightly inflected language like English, the spell checker will need to consider different forms of the same word, such as plurals, verbal forms, contractions, and possessives.
Unicode The Lycian alphabet was added to the Unicode Standard in April, 2008 with the release of version 5.1.
Julien Maunoir died in Plévin, Brittany, on 28 January 1683, and was buried in the parish church grounds at the insistence of his people.
These lists are printed in the Mikraot Gedolot (rabbinical Bible), in the texts of Baer-Delitzsch and Christian David Ginsburg's Masorah vol.
In different languages In English American English The Chicago Manual of Style suggests the use of an ellipsis for any omitted word, phrase, line, or paragraph from within but not at the end of a quoted passage.
The final version, SSS-2004, was renamed International Movement Writing Alphabet (SSS-IMWA) to reflect its usefulness in applications beyond sign language.
The quotation marks 「...」, 『...』 and 〝...〟 rotate 90 degrees, as follows: See also General Punctuation, for variation selectors and CJK behaviour of the Latin quotation marks ‘...’ and “...”.
The human brain does have language centers (for spoken and gestural communication), but written language is a cultural artifact, and a very complex one requiring brain regions designed to recognize and interpret written symbols as representations of language in rapid synchronization.
Of these two scholars, the Rolbiidorj’s numerals, their names and sequencing are commonly accepted and used today, for example, in the calculations and documents pertaining to the Mongolian Government budget.
Recognising the lack of teachers in the language, Chesswas took the opportunity to publish a textbook for stations where no teachers of the language were available.
Arsenyev's recordings are judged by experts to be much more accurate than those of his predecessors.
They interact with the ambiguous consonant letters к, velar /k/ or uvular /q/, and г, velar /ɡ/ or uvular /ʁ/.
The word iroha (イロハ, often in katakana) itself can mean "the basics" in Japanese, comparable to the term "the ABCs" in English.
It may be instructive to consider an unrelated development in the evolution of the Etruscan alphabet from Greek: Greek had three letters, Γ, Κ, and Ϙ, whose sounds were not distinguished in Etruscan.
[Meaning unclear.] At top right is the Sun (18 above) crossed out in chains, meaning it will be hindered and the weather will not be good.
Isidore of Seville remarks in his Etymologiae (I.21.13) that the diple was used to mark quotations from the Bible.
The normal way in most of Europe to write the number seven is with a bar.) In medieval English scribal abbreviations, a stroke or bar was used to indicate abbreviation.
The seven-letter German sequence ⟨schtsch⟩, used to transliterate the Russian and Ukrainian letter ⟨щ⟩, as in ⟨Borschtsch⟩ [bɔʁʃtʃ] for Russian/Ukrainian ⟨борщ⟩ (Russian: [borɕː], Ukrainian: [bɔrʃtʃ]) "borscht", is a sequence of a trigraph ⟨sch⟩ [ʃ] and a tetragraph ⟨tsch⟩ [t͡ʃ].
It has been estimated that he used more than 400 new words in his collections of 1904 and 1907 alone.
In the 1840s, on behalf of the Archbishop of Kamchatka and Aleutian Innokentiy (Veniaminov), church texts began to be translated into the Even language.
"From orthography to phonetics: ERP measures of grapheme-to-phoneme conversion mechanisms in reading".
Reforms of Kapampangan orthography in the Latin script began with the adoption toward the end of Spanish colonial rule of an indigenized orthography.
Visually similar symbols The dagger should not be confused with the symbols U+271D ✝ LATIN CROSS, U+253C ┼ BOX DRAWINGS LIGHT VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL, or other cross symbols.
Tall man lettering (tall-man lettering or tallman lettering) is the practice of writing part of a drug's name in upper case letters to help distinguish sound-alike, look-alike drugs from one another in order to avoid medication errors.
Thus, for instance, Hart documents that the pronunciation of words that had Middle English long /iː/ but shifted to /aɪ/ in Modern English was still variable in his days, with some speakers retaining /iː/ in some words, but a diphthong /ɛɪ/ (spelled ei by Hart) already common in others.
Ideographic runes appear to have mainly been used for saving space, but they were also mainly used without inflection.
The first letters were invented in Ancient Egypt to serve as an aid in writing Egyptian hieroglyphs; these are referred to as Egyptian uniliteral signs by lexicographers.
This use of digraphs with ⟨h⟩ to indicate lenition is distinct from the other uses which derive from Latin.
The character is referred to as a hyphen, a minus sign, or a dash according to the context where it is being used.
In order to avoid a complete re-typesetting of the entire text for this discrepancy, the publishers commonly shifted 神 so that it also took two spaces and the rest of the text could be typeset identically with 上帝.) Ping tai Ping tai (Chinese: 平抬, literally "level shift") is another form.
In rhetoric, a parenthesis (pl.: parentheses; from the Ancient Greek word παρένθεσις parénthesis 'injection, insertion', literally '(a) putting in beside') or parenthetical phrase is an explanatory or qualifying word, phrase, clause, or sentence inserted into a passage.
37–41 Vékony, Gábor (1985): Késő népvándorláskori rovásfeliratok [Runic inscriptions from the Late Migration Period].
Efforts of language planners have been hampered by the significant dialectal divisions in Romani: the absence of standard phonology, in turn, makes the selection of a single written form problematic.
Stroke order per polity The modern governments of mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Japan have standardized official stroke orders to be taught in schools.
Relaunch: 2022–present In February 2022, Bob McCalden, a former IT director, took over ownership of the APS and re-launched it, together with a new website.
There are some exceptions to this rule, mainly occurring when the right side of a character has a lower enclosure (see below).
There's no clear consensus." Regardless, some far-right users of Twitter saw the tweet as a genuine signal of support for antisemitism, and other users found the tweet to be in poor taste even as a joke.
Full Braille representation Origins The kun'yomi pronunciation of the character 濁 (daku in on'yomi) is nigori; hence the dakuten may also be called the nigori-ten.
Semasiography ('writing with signs', from Greek semasia 'signification' + graphia 'writing') is the use of symbols, called semasiographs, to "communicate information without the necessary intercession of forms of speech".
This list does not cover local variations of international scripts, such as which diacritics are used.
It was recognized, though, that if Demotic had become the state language, it might well have alienated millions of non-Greek speaking Orthodox believers within the potentially much larger future borders.
The term "alternating case" has been used as early as the 1970s, in several studies on word identification.
In the latter case, they both contributed enough significant material to the screenplay to receive credit but did not work together.
Capitalization of multi-word place names, institutions, and titles of works English usage is not consistent, but generally prepositions and articles are not capitalized: "the Forest of Dean", "Gone with the Wind", "University of Southampton".
Use In early Unicode (versions 1.0–2.1.9) U+02BC was preferred for the punctuation apostrophe in English.
The earliest Classical Greek and Roman texts were written in all capital letters with minimal spacing; punctuation was sparse and not standardized.
The Microsoft Windows family of operating systems inherited the MS-DOS behavior and so still support either character – but individual Windows programs and sub-systems may, wrongly, only accept the backslash as a path delimiter, or may misinterpret a forward slash if it is used as such.
It was rejected by the Armenian diaspora, most of which speak Western Armenian, including the Armenian communities in Iran, which also speak Eastern Armenian and still use the classical orthography of the Armenian alphabet.
Additionally, in Japanese, the logographic (Chinese-derived) reading is called the on'yomi reading, and the morphographic reading (native Japanese) is called the kun'yomi reading.
Symbols and semiotics Semiotics is the study of signs, symbols, and signification as communicative behavior.
Protoscholastic writing refers to the period in the Middle Ages when writing styles changed from liturgical models, mere adjuncts to the recitation of prayer, to a more complex form.
In FoxPro/Visual FoxPro, it is also used to indicate explicit pass by reference of variables when calling procedures or functions (but it is not an address operator).
In manuscripts written before Hus, all of the following representations were in use: rz, rrz, rs, rzs, rzss, zr, sr, rzs and rzz.
It was one of the two main scripts used by merchants in northwest India, the other being Langdi employed in the Punjab region.
Generally equivalent to the baseline universal standard of formal English orthography mentioned above; that is, only the first word is capitalized, except for proper nouns and other words which are generally capitalized by a more specific rule.
This cursive form influenced the monumental form more and more and gradually changed into the Arabic alphabet.
The 1993 edition of the Ukrainian Spelling Book, which resembles previous editions and is still in force, extended the rule of nine to the proper names of foreign locations, such as Argentina, Chile, and Syria.
Kodava Takk is generally written in the Kannada script, but can also be found written in the Malayalam script, especially along the borders with Kerala.
John Douglas Chesswas MBE (1919 – 28 February 2009) was a British author, linguist and policy advisor in Uganda.
San tai San tai (Chinese: 三抬, literally "triple shift") as above, but three characters above a normal line; since Chinese writers customarily leave a margin of two characters for tai tou from the paper border, a san tai would require the first character to appear outside of the page borders.
This revision created the standard script, known as tongki fuka sindaha hergen (Manchu: ᡨ᠋ᠣᠩᡴᡳ ᡶ᠋ᡠᡴᠠ ᠰᡳᠨ᠋ᡩ᠋ᠠᡥᠠ ᡥᡝᡵᡤᡝᠨ) — the "script with dots and circles".
Example in poetry The poem "Job's Job" from Richard Lederer's The Word Circus is an example of the use of capitonyms: Other languages In other languages there are more, or fewer, of these pairs depending on that language's capitalization rules.
In Japanese, list items are typically connected either with the particle と ("and") throughout or separated simply by commas, as in 母と父と私 or 母、父、私.
Example, Zn | Zn2+ || Cu2+ | Cu Single vertical lines show components of the cell which do not mix, usually being in different phases.
These are easier to understand when reading commands (some software does not care about the number of hyphen-minuses, and either does not allow combinations of single-letter options, or requires the user to rearrange them, so they do not match a long option).
In situations where both words should be capitalized (such as the beginning of a sentence), there will be nothing to distinguish between them except the context in which they are used.
In this standard, 艹 is written vertical–horizontal–vertical–horizontal, instead of the traditional vertical–horizontal–horizontal–vertical.
Diple (Ancient Greek: διπλῆ, meaning double, referring to the two lines in the mark >) was a mark used in the margins of ancient Greek manuscripts to draw attention to something in the text.
He sided with Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian, whose army entered Vicenza in June 1509, accompanied by members of the Vicentine nobility, including the Thiene, Chiericati, and Porto families.
'from the Shah's or King's mouth', Gurmukhī: ਸ਼ਾਹਮੁਖੀ) is the right-to-left abjad-based script developed from the Perso-Arabic alphabet used for the Punjabi language varieties, predominantly in Punjab, Pakistan.
"The Semiotics of the Writing Systems of Tolkien's Middle-earth." In Semiotics around the World: Synthesis in Diversity, I-II, ed.
The rule of nine (Ukrainian: Правило дев'ятки) is a orthographic rule of the Ukrainian language, which prohibits writing the letter "i" in loanwords after nine consonants (д, т, з, с, ц, ж, ш, ч, and р) if the next letter is a consonant (except for "й").
Syriac kap ܟܟܟ ܟ‎ Character encodings See also Ca (Indic) Gaf Gueh Ka (Indic) Ngaph == References ==
(presumably assimilating to any following consonant), in which case [VN] would be written with a double nasal: aŋŋ etc.
In mathematical texts that include the plus sign, the Unicode minus is preferred to the hyphen-minus, because its metrics match the plus sign in level and length.
History In Ancient Egyptian, determinatives may have been used as much to demarcate word boundaries as to disambiguate the semantics of words.
The service mark symbol is less commonly used than the trademark sign, especially outside the United States.
The European ordering rules (EOR / EN 13710) define an ordering for strings written in languages that are written with the Latin, Greek and Cyrillic alphabets.
They were at 0xAE and 0xAF (174 and 175) in CP437 on the IBM PC, and 0xC7 and 0xC8 in Mac OS Roman, and placed in several of ISO 8859 code pages (namely: -1, -7, -8, -9, -13, -15, -16) at 0xAB and 0xBB (171 and 187).
The Swedish heathen law, for example, begins with: Givr ᛘ oquæþins orð manni · þu ær æi mans maki oc eig ᛘ i brysti · Ek ær ᛘ sum þv (Old Swedish) Giver [man] okvädningsord till annan: Du är ej mans make och ej [man] i bröstet.
Heffernan recalls that: "The old people worried that this school business didn't fit well with our culture.
On the other hand, others worry that this approach could prompt educators "to abandon research-tested practices that are only just now securing a foothold in districts".
Adoption Some writers omit the upside-down question mark in the case of a short unambiguous question such as: "Quién viene?" ("Who comes?").
of a word], which the apex makes entirely distinct from the ending that m or n makes, with a meaning entirely diverse in words in which it is employed.
Many languages written in the Latin alphabet make use of diacritics, and those letters using diacritics are sometimes considered separate letters within the language's alphabet.
Comparison chart Note: The bopomofo extended characters in the zhuyin row require a UTF-8 font capable of displaying Unicode values 31A0–31B7 (ex.
Heterograms are frequent in cuneiform scripts, such as the Akkadian cuneiform, which uses Sumerian heterograms, or the Anatolian cuneiform, which uses both Sumerian and Akkadian heterograms.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
Such ambiguous positioning occurs in old books like the Codex Leningradensis (around year 1006) whose text on paper was extremely compacted with minimal spacing between letters.
For example: דּוּ״חַ (singular), דּוּ״חוֹת (plural), "report" represents דין וחשבון; and מ״כ (masculine), מַ״כִּית (feminine), "squad commander" represents מפקד(ת) כיתה.
The documentary The story of the Morbidelli racing team is told in the documentary film Morbidelli - a story of men and fast motorcycles (2014), by directors Jeffrey Zani and Matthew Gonzales.
The indexed table turns vertically or horizontally, and its movement could be continuous or intermittent.
OMZ manufactures a wide range of steel, custom and industrial components for nuclear power plants, petrochemical and mining operations and utilities.
Figures The main production work is carried out in the establishments of Formigine and Ubersetto, with over 530,000 square feet of facilities and a staff of about 400.
Initially, production was focused on multi-machines, pasteurizers and batch freezers, until 1974, when Genesio Bravo conceived and built the first multi-purpose machine for the production of artisanal gelato, called "Trittico".
The company was consequently seized by organizations and persons tied with Islamic Republic officials.
In June 2006, a live 5-axis STEP-NC machining demonstration was hosted by Airbus at the Université Paul Sabatier Laboratoire de Génie mécanique in Toulouse.
Standards The widespread use of scaffolding systems, along with the profound importance that they earned in modern applications such as civil engineering projects and temporary structures, led to the definition of a series of standards covering a vast number of specific issues involving scaffolding.
Non Sparking Monel Drums are widely used in hazardous environments exposed to flammable particles or corrosive chemicals.
Gallery of scaffold types Putlog scaffold In addition to the Jody couplers (discussed above), there are also Jody tubes.
Hand tools similar to linishing belts but much smaller and more suitable for small surfaces are also used.
Operation Stankoprom JSC, within the framework of Rostec State Corporation, has the status of a center for technological audit of technological equipment purchased by the corporation's organizations, as well as ensuring centralized supplies of machine tool products to the corporation's enterprises.
Subcompact tractors, the size between a compact tractor and lawn tractor, are also often sold in backhoe loader setup, sometimes with a belly-mounted mower also included.
A vibrating feeder or vibratory feeder is an industrial machine used to feed material to a process or machine.
Other Case sealers can also be categorized as either adjustable to fit production runs of a uniform box size or random, capable of handling a mixed variety of box sizes without machine adjustment.
The Third Blast Furnace, which restarted only two and a half months after the earthquake, had become a 'symbol of recovery', but was suspended in October 2017 in order to strengthen competitiveness.
After a crisis, the industry starts the production of forced hot air rotary ovens for many years, until 1982 when PFM starts reducing the production of ovens while the flow pack catches on.
According to Dhaka Tribune there is a strong syndicate involved in embezzling funds from the company.
The "Electric Worksite" study conducted 2024 in Gothenburg with the participation of Volvo, investigated the feasibility of fully-electric construction sites using real examples in the city.
One must make sure a high-temperature epoxy is used in the manufacturing of the vacuum table before it makes contact with hot substrates.
See also Check weigher Multihead weigher Quality assurance Validation and verification References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
High speed spindle High speed spindles are used strictly in machines, like CNC mills, designed for metal work.
A discontinuous filament winding machine (DFW machine or DW machine) is a machine for laying fiberglass filament windings over a cylindrical mould or mandrel bar using a carriage that is traveling along the axis of that mandrel.
The bar puller serves to draw bars into the lathe without operators having to feed the machine with material each time it is required.
This setup did not prove as effective as desired and the processes were separated and the modern paver was on its way.
These conveyors are suitable for light applications up to 50 kg (110 lb) such as cardboard boxes and tote boxes.
Radial drill press is a special variant where the spindle also is attached to a slide so that the drill can also be moved radially between each drilling.
In 2018, Sulzer acquired US company JWC Environmental, LLC, a provider of solids reduction and removal products such as grinders, screens and dissolved air flotation system for municipal, industrial and commercial wastewater applications.
For example, a clamp or vise can be used to hold the workpiece, and the clamp or vise itself can be attached to grooves in the drilling table.
In 2013 the Morgan won the HumanityPlus Uplift Personal Manufacturing Prize and third place in the Gauteng Accelerator Program.
Process A single-point cutting tool is rigidly held in the tool holder, which is mounted on the ram.
A typical motorized roller conveyor zone can handle carton items weighing up to approximately 35 kg (75 lbs.).
Mechanical couplers can be advantageous in comparison with conventional methods of lap splicing because of the requirement for less steel for overlapping.
The company, still producing paper machinery, has extended its activities to engineering of auxiliary equipment for paper machines in its historic facilities.
Rotary tables are made with a solid base, which has provision for clamping onto another table or fixture.
Manufacturers Britain was a major exporter of steam rollers over the years, with the firm of Aveling and Porter probably being the most famous and the most prolific.
Gas–solid mixing Gas–solid mixing may be conducted to transport powders or small particulate solids from one place to another, or to mix gaseous reactants with solid catalyst particles.
Packaging Machinery Technology (ISSN-1556-1658) was a trade publication and web site owned by PMMI for packaging and packaging machinery manufacturers and packaging engineers in the United States and Canada.
Today, this type has been almost completely displaced by electronic thermal transfer devices with built-in keyboard and display, and an integrated cartridge containing the label material (and print ribbon, if used).
The direct contact method of heat sealing utilizes a constantly heated die or sealing bar to apply heat to a specific contact area or path to seal or weld the thermoplastics together.
Co-founder Volker Pape was elected to the Supervisory Board on June 1, 2018, naming Carsten Salewski the new Director of Sales/Operations.
In 1984, HEPCO development project was designed in collaboration with Liebherr & Volvo companies, aiming at fabrication of steel structures of construction equipment.
In August 2023, it was announced Siemens had signed an agreement to acquire the Veldhoven-headquartered eBus, eTruck and passenger vehicle fast charging technology company, Heliox.
The company entered the Australian market in 2018 with the acquisition of Millsom Hoists, who had been their distributor in the area for thirty years previously.
On 21 May 2024, YASA received approval to establish its new headquarters at a former RAF base in Bicester, Oxfordshire.
The tool is similar to a rotary table except that it is designed to be tilted as well as rotated and often allows positive locking at finer gradations of rotation, including through differential indexing.
Unlike iron and steel and alloys, which are vulnerable to corrosion without the application of paints, epoxy granite is generally resistant to most common solvents, acids, alkalis, and cutting fluids.
In water hoisting In energy production The bucket wheel design is also used to capture the water energy in water-wheels or water turbines like Pelton wheels.
This setup allows the machining of spiral or helical features such as spiral gears, worms, or screw type parts because the part is simultaneously rotated at the same time it is moved in the horizontal direction.
See also Heat gun References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
Within a year, they were being exported around the world, including to France, India and the United States.
Lewis has identified in English and French sources four mentions of wheelbarrows between 1172 and 1222, three of them designated with a different term.
A Drum handler is a piece of mechanical equipment that is used to securely grip, lift and transport cylindrical modules such as steel drums, barrels, plastic drums and fiber drums.
The photodiode generates a waveform that is used to measure the widths of the bars and spaces in the barcode.
Also known as XY stages, XY tables are motorized linear slides with linear motion based in bearings which are driven by a drive mechanism, typically a linear motor.
In addition to a control to raise and lower the forks (also known as blades or tines), the operator can tilt the mast to compensate for a load's tendency to angle the blades toward the ground and risk slipping off the forks.
The shape of the bucket can vary from the truncated conical shape of an actual bucket to more scoop-like or spoon-like shapes akin to water turbines.
The company was part of Japan's industrial buildup before and during World War II, then, like the rest of Japanese industry, was humbled by the war's outcome.
Bead rollers also can be used in an artistic and creative form by allowing metalworkers to create unique designs and patterns on metal.
However, with production based on the open-hearth furnace, the future of flat production in Linz would be too expensive.
The first trains produced at either facility under ABB ownership were for an order for 22 three-carriage Class 320 electric multiple units, built at ABB York for Glasgow's suburban railways in 1990.
For example, lasers can detect chlorophyll by stimulating fluorescence using specific wavelengths; which is a process that is very effective for removing foreign material from green vegetables.
Applications A trencher may be combined with a drainage pipe or geotextile feeder unit and backfiller, so drain or textile may be placed and the trench filled in one pass.
Parting off tool This is similar to a cutoff tool, in that a discrete part is cut from a sheet or strip of metal along a desired geometric path.
Record keeping for construction equipment is often poor, making identification of recovered items difficult.
Dymo has received criticism for using a razor and blades model by forcing customers to purchase genuine Dymo label rolls.
This is the direction the drum is rotated while the concrete is being transported to the building site.
Seal strength is not only relevant to opening force and package integrity, but to measuring the packaging processes’ ability to produce consistent seals.
Gallery References Bibliography Holland, Max (1989), When the Machine Stopped: A Cautionary Tale from Industrial America, Boston: Harvard Business School Press, ISBN 978-0-87584-208-0, OCLC 246343673.
ITW Mima Packagings Systems is a member of the Process and Packaging Machinery Association (PPMA) == References ==
Adjusting to the numerous developments in its production, the company acquired expertise in this field that in the 1950s they decided to make it their sole business.
The bulk can be composed of different substances and the aim of the operation is to blend it or to improve the efficiency of a reaction by a better contact between reactive product.
Such rotary transfer machines are used for producing a large number of parts in fairly short cycle times.
Because they most often have three jaws, the term three-jaw chuck without other qualification is understood by machinists to mean a self-centering three-jaw chuck.
is an Italian company specialized in the production of high and very high pressure water pumps and one of the world's leading groups in the hydraulic sector.
On the contrary, Hydraulic Presses do not have a tonnage curve and can produce full tonnage at any point in the stroke.
All the machines were driven by rope from a single large wheel; two horizontal steam engines powered the entire ironworks.
Hibar's technology caught the eye of Tesla, Inc., which builds battery-electric vehicles and battery energy systems.
If an accident happens and a roofer loses his/her footing, the 2x4 would stop the roofer from sliding down and/or off the roof.
Peder Ulrik Poulsen invented the rotating mandrel with an endless steel band (strip) in 1967, which made the continuous filament winding process possible.
Upon exiting, the material that remains on the center roll moves through the second nip between the center roll and apron roll.
On a manual milling machine, the micrometer adjustment nut limits the depth to which the cutting tool may plunge into the workpiece.
The revived product range spans road and crossover motorcycles from 125 to 1,000 cc and scooters from 125 to 500 cc, with initial market launches targeting Europe, Asia and America.
Size 0 props can take at least 23 kN, whereas size 4 props at most 20 kN dropping to 7 kN at their maximum extension.
Swamp mats are based on a design developed by Joe Penland in the late 20th century and consist of three layers of 2’ x 8’ lumber laminated together with steel bolts.
The jaws are driven by hydraulically actuated eccentrics which crush material to a desired particle size.
At EICMA 2025, the brand unveiled two further models for 2026: the C652V power cruiser and the T502XR adventure bike.
These were led by Siemens with contributions from RWTH Aachen University and the University of Stuttgart in Germany, Komatsu and FANUC in Japan, Heidenhain in Switzerland, and the Pohang University of Science and Technology in Korea.
History The history of crawler excavators can be traced back to the late 19th century, with the invention of the steam shovel in 1796.
As a press tool requires a matching punch and die set, there are two corresponding turrets, above and below the bed, for punch and die.
The 930G, with 149 hp (111 kW) of net flywheel power at 2300 rpm, it is classified as a small wheeled loader in the line of Caterpillar's excavators.
Logistics and Distribution: Shipping Labels: Barcode printers are essential for creating shipping labels that contain information such as destination, shipping method, and tracking numbers.
Most modern machine presses typically use a combination of electric motors and hydraulics to achieve the necessary pressure.
The fillers have a hopper shaped like a cone that holds the mix and puts it in a pouch using an auger conveyor that is controlled by the agitator.
The revolutionary underlying principle was that advances in machine tool control that expedited the making of jigs were fundamentally a way to expedite the cutting process itself, for which the jig was just a means to an end.
Acoustic interferometry can be used to measure seismic velocities through a material or to infer density of materials.
Depending on the machine, the probe position may be manually controlled by an operator, or it may be computer controlled.
The laboratory developed the first collaborative robot (cobot) with a built-in vision system – the TM5 In 2014 the TM5 was subsequently unveiled at the International Robot Exhibition (iREX) held in Tokyo, Japan, in 2015.
Examples include camshafts, crankshafts, transmission shafts and other rotating parts with a length longer than their diameter.
Spacing is the same on a Jody scaffold as on a general purpose scaffold, and ties are still required.
History In the early years of the shipbuilding industry, workers covered their hats with pitch (tar) and set them in the sun to cure and harden, a common practice for dock workers in constant danger of being hit on the head by objects dropped from ship decks.
At this time lathes were changed to permit inexpensive and economical production of small or medium-sized batches.
A notable disadvantage is that the large open area of paste on the rollers causes loss of volatiles.
These being: Mobile-One E Governance by the Department of IT, BT & ST, Government of Karnataka in December 2014 which had the President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee visiting BIEC.
It enables the operator to drill or cut work at exact intervals around a fixed (usually horizontal or vertical) axis.
Aksa Power Generation (or Aksa Jeneratör Sanayi A.Ş.) is a Turkish corporation, (part of the Aksa Group and owned by Kazanci Holding) that designs, manufactures, distributes, sells and services electrical power generators worldwide.
the Barcodepedia used a flash application and some web cam for querying a database), have been realized options for resolving the given tasks.
Starting in 2022, the company was to move its headquarters and location in Allach in phases to an industrial estate then under construction in the community of Vaterstetten, which is located north of the village of Parsdorf.
PMMI U has partnered with 28 institutions in the United States and Canada that offer packaging and processing curriculum.
In fact, machine tool builders are already developing machines that include both subtractive and additive manufacturing in one work envelope, and retrofits of existing machines are underway.
As with other setups on a vertical mill, the milling operation can be either drilling a series of concentric, and possibly equidistant holes, or face or end milling either circular or semicircular shapes and contours.
Energy storage The energy storage division develops intermediate storage options for renewable energy.
Another portable type are handheld trenchers that look similar to a chainsaw, weigh 20Kg (45lbs) or less, and can trench 0-700 mm (0-27 inches ) deep and a minimum of 50 mm (2 inches) wide.
While the process is innovative in many ways, the work performed on the machines proved to carry HS&E risks caused by fumes, emissions, fire risks and mechanical pinch points.
A seed-counting machine is an automated industrial device used in agriculture and packaging to accurately count seeds.
Nidec Leroy-Somer is a French company based in Angoulême, Charente which manufactures mainly electric motors.
As of October 2015, it is a member of the Austrian Traded Index, the index of the twenty largest companies traded on the Vienna stock exchange.
While superficially similar, movable scaffolding systems should not be confused with launching gantry machines, which also are used in segmental bridge construction.
A ruggedized Telematic control unit, installed on each asset, uses a GPS tracking unit to provide real-time Vehicle location data.
A typical bed has X and Y travel, and is between three and four feet square with a rotary table or a larger rectangle without a table.
Customers are largely universities such as University of Maryland, Florida Polytechnic, UMass Amherst, and Xavier University.
There are also heat gun form factors friendly for food purposes such as melting hard candies, searing meats, or to start a charcoal fire or grill.
Classification Stabilized soil mixing plants are of two kinds: the portable stabilized soil mixing plant and the stationary stabilized soil mixing plant.
Limitations There is no ASTM standard for using a concrete moisture meter to determine a final moisture content reading.
Depending on the type of phase and the viscosity of the bulk, the agitator may be called a mixer, kneader, dough mixer, amongst others.
Placing the workpiece eccentrically a set distance from the center permits more complex curves to be cut.
RFID tags need to have printed information for backwards compatibility with barcode systems, so human users can identify the tag.
Abernethy and Co Stonemason's Lathe was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.
Because seeds may continue to fall due to inertia after a feeding conveyor stops, these systems intentionally halt the primary continuous feed just before the target count is reached.
The forging of low-ductility and hard-to-deform steels and alloys by two dies using conventional forging methods is very difficult and sometimes is practically impossible because of high tensile stresses in deformation zone leading to various forging defects and high percentage of rejected products.
The relative coordinate system allows the machine operator to define a point in the workspace based on, or relative to, the previous point that the machine tool was at.
The firm exhibited an "air blowing machine" at the St Petersburg Exhibition of New and Improved Mechanisms, Devices and Tools in 1875, alongside a similar one by Roots.
Drill presses can be divided into two main types depending on their construction: Column drill press is a common type characterized by the fact that the drill spindle can be moved up and down axially ("along a column"), and has a height-adjustable table, usually adjustable via a rack and pinion.
The company's first portable Anatergoarm model, the TMA-500, was deployed in 2010 at Hydro Quebec's Robert-Bourassa generating station for breaking unit repairs.
Furthermore, successive generations of MLOCR hardware and software would incorporate some of the advances made in computer-based Remote Encoding, in order to minimize the number of mailpieces that need to go through this extra step.
The two companies also jointly established Advanced Micro Computers (AMC), located in Silicon Valley and in Germany, allowing AMD to enter the microcomputer development and manufacturing field, in particular based on AMD's second-source Zilog Z8000 microprocessors.
A few months following the start of the 1997 Asian financial crisis, ABB announced plans to accelerate its expansion in Asia as well as to improve the productivity and profitability of its Western operations.
An A-frame known as a ROPS (Roll-Over Protection) frame, may be fitted over the seat to protect the driver if the dumper rolls over.
Table saw Tenoner or tenoning machine Thicknesser or Thickness planer Round pole milling machine Round pole sanding machine Panel Line Woodworking machines These machines are used in large-scale manufacturing of cabinets and other wooden or panel products.
is headquartered in Taiwan and has overseas branches in Shanghai, Shenzhen, Chongqing, Busan, and Alblasserdam.
At each stage, the tool will progressively shape the component towards its final shape, with the final stage normally being cutting-off.
These beams may be emanating from laser, or the spray of ink as with a continuous inkjet (CIJ) printer, the most important factor is that the product or machine should be moving at constant speed.
However, battery-powered, solar-powered and hydrogen-powered sets are available; light towers with electrodeless lamps lighting are also sold.
This length enables the launching gantry to span the gap between two adjacent bridge piers while providing allowances for the distance required for launching to the next span and flexibility of movement to accommodate curved paths between piers.
These multi-component forces are measured as an individual component force in each co-ordinate, depending on the coordinate system used.
It is most commonly used for regular slotted containers (RSC) and can involve adhesive (cold water-borne or hot melt adhesive), box sealing tape, or gummed (water activated) tape.
AzarAb Industries is an Iranian manufacturing corporation that constructs power plants, factories, petrochemical plants and sugar, oil and gas refineries that is located in Arak.
Several methods are available to determine the ability of a sealed package to retain its integrity, barrier characteristics, and sterility.
Ultrasonics can also be used to weld metals, but are typically limited to small welds of thin, malleable metals such as aluminum, copper, and nickel.
This press was marked a National Historic Mechanical Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 1981.
Double-acting presses have a subdivided ram, to manage, for example, blank holding (to avoid wrinkles) with one ram segment and the forming operation with the second ram segment.
There are 170 numerical control machines, served by LGV (Laser Guided Vehicle) lines and a whole division is dedicated to the thermal treatment that works 24 hours, 7 days a week.
In the 1960s and 1970s, the machine factory continued to grow: the factory buildings were extended, the production facilities modernised and efforts in the field of research intensified.
History Motovario® was founded in 1965 by Giancarlo Raguzzoni in Formigine in the heart of Modena industrial district.
Reach-in ovens are meant for different industrial applications that may need uniform temperature throughout.
PMT Italia (2000-.....) All the shares of Beloit Italia were sold to the Nugo Group and the company was renamed PMT Italia S.p.A.
The key difference between the two vehicles is that on a roller the main roll replaces the front wheels and axle that would be fitted to a traction engine, and the driving wheels are smooth-tired.
The main advantage of a servo press is its low energy consumption; its only 10-20% of other press machines.
More generally, a toe board is a small vertical barrier attached to a raised floor or raised platform.
These two turrets must rotate in precise synchronisation and with their alignment carefully maintained.
Optical technologies include non-contact laser interferometry or shadow systems, while tactile systems use an optical grating.
In regards to new tier 4 restrictions, oven cleanings can continue as an essential service for customers.
Sealant and Adhesive Application: They provide equipment for applying sealants, adhesives, and other bonding materials in industries like construction and automotive assembly.
In addition, special linear guides are offered for protection against earthquakes in cultural monuments, data centers, and residential buildings.
The National Shipbuilding Research Program (NSRP) has also hosted work to implement a prototype that connects a shipyard design system to a plate cutting using STEP-NC.
When combined with the use of conical tools or a ball nose cutter, it also significantly improves milling precision without impacting speed, providing a cost-efficient alternative to most flat-surface hand-engraving work.
Historical descriptions The American Association for the Advancement of Science noted in 1883: The only instrument used in the construction of the igloo is the snow-knife.
It has opened three generator manufacturing plants in China (Changzhou, Wuxi and Hangzhou) with its Hangzhou State plant (opened 2012) making 24,000 generators per year and being the largest generator factory in the world.
Some are built into a production line or are integral with machinery that also applies the shrink film.
The portable stabilized soil mixing plant has wheels on each part and can be driven by a trailer, but has low productivity.
A further order for 97 four-car Class 465 units was completed at ABB York for Network SouthEast services in and around Kent between 1991 and 1994.
Types There are different types of drum handlers available in today's market; forklift attachment, hydraulic drum lifter, mobile drum handler, below-hook drum handler and drum rotator.
A box blade (also box scraper) is a type of implement used on tractors for smoothing and contouring land.
A lineshaft roller conveyor or line-shaft driven live roller conveyor is, as its name suggests, powered by a shaft beneath rollers.
They eliminate the need to manually measure and cut each individual piece of tape on high volumes of product or packaging.
Some robots are programmed to faithfully carry out specific actions over and over again (repetitive actions) without variation and with a high degree of accuracy.
The Tiltrotator (also known as a Rototilt) was introduced to the market in Sweden in the early 1980s by the Norgrens under the family owned and operated company named Noreco, and has become the standard in Scandinavia.
In 1968, WEG created CentroWEG, a training center to aid in the lack of qualified professionals in the area of mechanical engineers.
Freddy's patent application referenced specific drive methods, allowing competitors to enter the market by offering alternative methods, but using the same articulating principle.
Lascoe, Orville (1988), Handbook of Fabrication Processes, ASM International, ISBN 978-0-87170-302-6 External links Video of a four-slide machine in use.
To perform this step, gummed dispensers often employ a water bottle and wetting brush to moisten each piece of tape as it is dispensed.
SACMI has international branches in 28 countries, including Brazil, Germany, India, Mexico, Russia, Singapore, Spain, the United States, Indonesia, Poland, Portugal and Egypt.
The biggest increases in thefts were in agricultural tractors (up 149 percent), quad bikes (up 83 percent), forklift trucks (up 67 percent), and portable generators (up 55 percent).
with around 1,400 exhibitors, including more than 350 international participants and 80,000 business visitors.
Thermal transfer printers also use heat, but instead of reacting the paper, the heat melts a waxy or resin substance on a ribbon that runs over the label or tag material.
The idea seems to have originated with Louis Martin in Europe in 1803, and may have been used by Arnold Pawtucket in 1812 in Rhode Island.
Once several bridge piers are complete, support brackets are attached to adjacent piers and the main parallel girders of the MSS are lifted in place to support the scaffold and concrete forms.
It's an attached tool for excavators for built-in crushing construction waste and demolition materials.
The ZYYX 3D Printer was designed to provide an enclosed print environment with a fan and carbon filter to scrub fumes produced by the melted filament before exhausting them into the environment.
Bamboo processing machines are used to prepare bamboo for use in manufacture of handicrafts, furniture and other products.
Depending on its shape, the impeller can generate: the moving of the liquid which is characterized by its velocity and direction.
In 1988, the Rapistan Lande company was acquired by the Dutch company leadership and private investors through a management buy-out.
In the furniture business, foam cushions can be stuffed more easily when the foam is compressed previously by the use of a table and a surrounding air resistant fabric.
Sortation is the process of identifying items on a conveyor system, and diverting them to specific destinations.
A swinging boom is advantageous where space is limited as stability, mobility and space management are greatly increased over their articulated counterparts.
In 1904 the company was already called Robert Ardelt & Söhne Maschinenfabrik, indicating that it was family-run.
Forging in forging presses is carried out by two dies of which one makes reciprocal movements and the other one remains stationary.
The motor was developed for the Morgan LIFEcar in 2008 by Dr Malcolm McCulloch and Dr Tim Woolmer, then a PhD student, at the University of Oxford.
Since mixers operate in the turbulent regime, many of the equations are approximations that are considered acceptable for most engineering purposes.
The take-up hub consists of a bar and a liner holder/clip, which are connected to the motor on a single side-frame.
Approximately 1000 seeds were collected from the mother plant in 1974 and propagated, with two selected for further development as cultivars, which are now propagated clonally.
Not only the biomass per square meter increases with density, but also the Leaf Area Index (LAI, leaf area per ground area).
Urtica × oblongata is a hybrid species of the genus Urtica in the family Urticaceae (also known as the nettle family).
While these diseases are usually serious enough that the gardener would not grow affected plants, there are a few affected plants that can survive indefinitely, and are attractive enough to be grown for ornament such as some variegated Abutilon varieties.
× incanus is a shrubby plant, to about 1 m (3 ft) tall, with grey-green leaves and pink to purple flowers.
During the age of sail, 'Banyan' was used as an expression for a party, especially one at the fo'c'sle.
PPG I A first classification, PPG I, was produced in 2016, covering only extant (living) pteridophytes.
Female sporophylls are simple, appearing peltate, with a barren stipe and an expanded and thickened lamina with 2 (rarely 3 or more) sessile ovules inserted on the inner (axis facing) surface and directed inward.
Implicated products Tinospora cordifolia supplement usage is of concern as the constituent chemicals cause hepatitis.
In particular, a thicket's high plant density and resulting low visibility allows for predator species to succeed in tracking, stalking, and capturing their prey.
There are indications that also the well-illuminated top leaves may have a lower photosynthetic capacity in densely-grown plants.
In studies on grass species, with plants that produce stolons or rhizomes and plants that produce both stolons and rhizomes, morphological and physiological differences were noticed.
A derivation of the impossible bottle mechanical puzzle takes advantage of the fact that pine cones open and close based on their level of dryness.
Meiosis in the diploid sporophyte provides a direct DNA repair capability for dealing with DNA damages, including oxidative DNA damages, in germline reproductive tissues.
Monocotyledons or monocots have one seed lobe, which is often modified to absorb stored nutrients from the seed so never emerges from the seed or becomes photosynthetic.
In the Chinese language, the edible, cultivated walnut is called 胡桃 (hú táo in modern standard Chinese), which means literally "Hu peach", suggesting the ancient Chinese associated the introduction of the tree into East Asia with the Hu barbarians of the regions north and northwest of China.
The formation of bulbils is a form of asexual reproduction, as they can eventually go on to form new stand-alone plants.
As the industry declined, the tree farm was sold to the Collins Companies which mills and markets the wood.
Examples are the closing of the petals of a flower at dusk and the sleep movements of the leaves of many legumes.
Malting In the production of malted grains, the culms refer to the rootlets of the germinated grains.
In many of these plants, only the male flowers form catkins, and the female flowers are single (hazel, oak), a cone (alder), or other types (mulberry).
However, not all variegated plants have this Latin tag, for instance many cultivars of Pelargonium have some zonal variegation in their leaves.
Only seedlings and young tissue are susceptible to infection which, with proper cultural controls, can limit the development and progression of the disease.
Most species of ferns have pinnate or more highly divided fronds, and in ferns, the leaflets or segments are typically referred to as "pinnae" (singular "pinna").
Ground layering Ground layering or mound layering is the typical propagation technique for the popular Malling-Merton series of clonal apple root stocks, in which the original plants are set in the ground with the stem nearly horizontal, which forces side buds to grow upward.
An early leaf sensor was developed by LeafSens, an Israeli company granted a US patent for a mechanical leaf thickness sensing device in 2001.
As distance from the parent tree increases, seed abundance and thus seed predation are predicted to decrease as seed survival increases.
Canada produces most of the world's maple syrup, and the maple leaf is the country's national symbol.
The hypanthium of one plant found in the western United States, Heuchera rubescens, has one subspecies with an obconic structure, while several other subspecies have alternative hypanthium geometries, so that the obconic characteristic is a subspecies determinant and diagnostic.
Species in Cornales tend to have the same perforations, as well as anthers attached at their base, ring-like nectaries, and cymes, which are inflorescences with lateral stalks that terminate in a flower or another branch.
These walls are constructed of layered sheaths of cellulose microfibrils, wherein the fibers are in parallel within each layer.
Cultivation and modification of colour Many external factors can influence colour: light, temperature, pH, sugars and metals.
"An update of the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group classification for the orders and families of flowering plants: APG IV".
It has a number of cultivars, including 'Allgold' and 'Warminster', which have both gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Density calculation: The density of the canopy is calculated as the total number of seeds in the plot divided by the measured canopy area.
bifidum: Hieracium chlorellum - rare Hieracium crispulum - rare Hieracium prolixum - rare Hieracium triangulare - rare Hieracium aggr.
Pre-treatment of seed and soil before sowing Before sowing, certain seeds first require a treatment prior to the sowing process.
Bradyspory may occur because seed release is spontaneous but very gradual, or because seed release does not occur until triggered to do so by some environmental event.
Tetterwort – According to 1913 Webster's Dictionary, Chelidonium majus in England or Sanguinaria canadensis in the Americas.
Cultivation Availability includes the usual nursery "seed-grown" and the "cutting grown" types, which can easily be propagated at home by cuttings and planting side branches.
Taxonomy In the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I), Cryptogrammoideae is one of the five subfamilies of the family Pteridaceae.
Departing from Linnean taxonomy, Humboldt established a new science, dividing plant geography between taxonomists who studied plants as taxa and geographers who studied plants as vegetation.
These illustrations depicted a vast array of European and exotic plants, often accompanied by detailed annotations on plant anatomy, including flowers, leaves, seeds, and fruits at various stages of development.
Combining ability is assessed by taking into consideration all available information on descent (genetic relatedness), morphology, qualitative (simply inherited) traits and biochemical and molecular markers.
Uses Medical research A 2023 study at SRM Institute of Science and Technology suggests that veratric acid has apoptotic and antiproliferative effects against triple negative breast cancer cells.
List References External links British Bryological Society Checklist of British and Irish Bryophytes -searchable online database, listing 881 taxa of mosses (i.e.
Leaves simply pinnate with 4 to 7 pairs of leaflets, which are ovate to broadly ovate, coarsely serrate and occasionally lobed.
The Ginkgoaceae are a family of gymnosperms which appeared during the Mesozoic Era, of which the only extant representative is Ginkgo biloba, which is for this reason sometimes regarded as a living fossil.
This type of begonia is usually grown for the flowers they produce, sometimes regarded as some of the most spectacular of the genus.
Leaf whorls occur in some trees such as Brabejum stellatifolium and other species in the family Proteaceae (e.g., in the genus Banksia).
During the course of alternating stages of daytime and nighttime humidity, the awns' pumping movements, which resemble swimming frog kick, drill the spikelet as much as an inch into the soil.
The flowers are rich in nectar and are visited by insects, which usually have to crawl underneath the carina and thus pollinate the flowers.
Garden roses and other rose cultivars may have a much shorter lifespan of only a couple of hundred years.
A 2014 classification by Morton and Telmer split this circumscription of Rutoideae into a smaller Rutoideae and a much larger Amyridoideae s.l., which contained most of Engler's Rutoideae.
In addition phototropins mediate the first changes in stem elongation in blue light prior to cryptochrome activation.
Taxonomic significance Spur length can be an important diagnostic character for taxonomy, useful in species identification.
Symptoms When Peronospora radii infects chamomile it causes more inflorescences to be produced by the plant, and the inflorescences to be larger and malformed.
Other common names include viruchi, kiskaara, kepale, rangan, kheme, ponna, chann tanea, techi, pan, siantan, jarum-jarum/jejarum, cây trang thái, jungle flame, jungle geranium, and cruz de Malta, among others.
See also: Hyperaccumulators table – 2: Nickel Hyperaccumulators table – 3: Cd, Cs, Co, Pu, Ra, Sr, U, radionuclides, hydrocarbons, organic solvents, etc.
It is usually synonymous with the Flora and can be contrasted with the microflora, a term used for all the bacteria and other microorganisms in an ecosystem.
Species are commonly called coontails or hornworts, although hornwort is also used for unrelated plants of the division Anthocerotophyta.
Application of molecular markers An important advantage of biotechnology applied to plant breeding is the speeding up of cultivar release that would otherwise take 8–12 years.
Water starwort – Callitriche verna, of the water-milfoil family, and other species of the genus Callitriche, such as Common Water-starwort, Callitriche stagnalis.
The prothallus develops independently for several weeks; it grows sex organs that produce ova (archegonia) and flagellated sperm (antheridia).
Living Ceratophyllum grows completely submerged, usually, though not always, floating on the surface, and does not tolerate drought.
Cockayne, The Chatham Islands and Their Plants in New Zealand Plants and Their Story, NZ Department of Education, 1910 New Zealand plants and their story in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
The resulting zygote developed into the next sporophyte generation while still retained within the pre-ovule, the single large female meiospore or megaspore contained in the modified sporangium or nucellus of the parent sporophyte.
This name was however later rejected by Heslop-Harrison because they were not discovered by von Ubisch.
As a result, hybridization can be a powerful driver for improving agricultural crops, but can also facilitate unwanted species invasions (e.g., annual sunflower).
villosum which is found in the Himalayan region (including Bhutan, Nepal) and likely also in Yunnan.
Erigenia bulbosa, the Cherokee were known to chew this plant as medicine for toothaches, it is unknown what parts of plant they chewed.
For example, in two plant species whose fruit ripen asynchronously (Vaccinium corymbosum and Amelanchier arborea) the fruit with more seeds ripened faster.
The term is used in botany and in vegetation ecology especially in relation to grasslands and understory.
Holm (1929) restricted the term rhizome to a horizontal, usually subterranean, stem that produces roots from its lower surface and green leaves from its apex, developed directly from the plumule of the embryo.
Pathogens Importantly, cytoskeleton-mediated nuclear movement is critical for response of plants to pathogenic microorganisms.
An intermediate position is to place the bulk in Thelypteris (which can then be divided into subgenera and sections corresponding to the genera of other authors) but to separate out Phegopteris and Macrothelypteris.
This long lifetime indicates that something is preventing the small ice crystals from recrystallizing into larger ones, since recrystallization normally occurs very quickly at temperatures near 0 °C (32 °F).
A report from 2005 commissioned by the World Bank looked at the impact of intellectual property rights regimes on the plant breeding industry in 5 developing countries.
In a garden outside the television studios, she also gave the presenters a practical demonstration of how she communicates with trees, with the aid of a sound engineer.
This plant was in the 'Desert Worlds' episode of the David Attenborough TV series The Green Planet where he revisited the plant in 2022, after previously filming it in 1982 for 'The Baking Deserts' episode of The Living Planet.
Phytochemicals possibly involved in biological functions are the basis of herbalism, and may be grouped as: primary metabolites, such as carbohydrates and fats found in all plants secondary metabolites serving a more specific function.
Forb Adaptation Zones: Kale and turnip are examples of forb adaptations distributed over much of Europe, southern Oceania, northern Asia, and northern North America.
It was not until the 1990s that after analyzing the Casparian strip of several plants, it was found that lignin was the main component, but many textbooks have not been updated.
The bird's nest fern (Asplenium nidus) is also popular, as are the staghorn ferns (genus Platycerium).
In the aphotic (lightless) part of caves, short-term growth of photosynthetic plants is possible thanks to the seed's nutritive tissue.
The Chatham Islands make up the Chatham floristic province of the Neozeylandic Region of the Antarctic Kingdom.
It is assumed to have originated at least 408 million years ago, and is multicellular in origin in spikemosses and unicellular in origin in quillworts.
There is an increasing interest in flower colour, since some colorations are currently unavailable in plants.
The coco de mer, which produces a giant, dark brown seed, has been protected by the government of the Seychelles because of its rarity – the tree can grow up to 31 m (102 ft) tall, with leaves measuring 6 m (20 ft) long and 3.6 m (12 ft) wide.
Classification based on position The terminology of the positions of ovaries is determined by the insertion point, where the other floral parts (perianth and androecium) come together and attach to the surface of the ovary.
In this system, the superasterids (named for the asters) account for more than a third of all flowering plant species.
In palaeontology Stolon-based reproduction is thought to have been used by Rangeomorphs in the Ediacaran period.
This is in contrast to the flora, which in this context refers to the assemblage of living plants that were growing in a particular area, whose fragmentary remains became entrapped within the sediment from which the rock was formed and thus became the macroflora.
These plants are found worldwide, even in mainland Antarctica; two species of grass are the only vascular plants found there.
Exclusion of aluminium ions in the apoplast prevent toxic levels which inhibit shoot growth, reducing[?] crop yields.
Curio 'Trident Blue', known commonly as Senecio 'Trident Blue', Trident Blue Chalk and Kleinia 'Trident Blue', is a spear-shaped succulent plant that is a hybrid of Curio repens and Curio talinoides.
In contrast, those in other countries, often called European cucumbers, are smaller and have thinner, more delicate skin, often with fewer seeds, thus are often sold in plastic skin for protection.
This cold moist period triggers the seed's embryo; its growth and subsequent expansion eventually break through the softened seed coat in its search for sun and nutrients.
Sieve-tube members lack such organs as nuclei or ribosomes, but cells next to them, the companion cells, function to keep the sieve-tube members alive.
PIF1, phytochrome-interaction-factor-1, negatively regulates germination by increasing the expression of proteins that repress the synthesis of gibberellin (GA), a major hormone in the germination process.
Angiosperms also use another type of conductive cell, called vessel elements, to transport water through the xylem.
Cones are used as decorative elements in architecture such as on top of the posts surrounding Koper's Da Ponte Fountain, the central element of the Fontana della Pigna in Rome, or a bronze cone in the narthex of the Aachen Cathedral.
References Yatabe, Yoko; Yamamoto, Kaoru; Tsutsumi, Chie; Shinohara, Wataru; Murakami, Noriaki; Kato, Masahiro (2010).
guard cell Each of two cells surrounding the stoma which control gas exchange between the apoplast of the plant and the external environment.
Wounding While proteinase inhibitors are present in plants naturally, production of these proteins for defense is often induced by either wounding of the plant or by chemical signaling through molecules such as methyl jasmonate.
Then, A mound is created with moist media around the base of the plant, enclosing the wounded branches but leaving the tips of the branches exposed.
Evolution For some time, catkins were believed to be a key synapomorphy among the proposed Hamamelididae, also known as Amentiferae (i.e., literally plants bearing aments).
The taxonomy presented is broadly based on the work of the APG, with modifications to incorporate new results.
Many whitebeams are the result of extensive intergeneric hybridisation involving the genera Sorbus (Sorbus aucuparia in particular), Aria, Torminalis and Chamaemespilus.
It would be known only from the type locality until 27 years later when, in 2009, plants were located at both the type locality and at a new site near Lafeti Khola, Bhutan.
Entophytic bacteria can cause severe problems in agriculture by alkalizing the apoplast with their volatiles and therefore inhibiting plant growth.
The flowers change colour, where they start out as bright blue early in the morning, shifting to a darker shade of blue in midday, then to a lavender blue and finally to a deep pink at the end of the day.
These can be quite elaborate in the case of certain maize varieties, but tend to use a trapezoidal or leaf area index (LAI) curve for common crop or vegetation canopies.
Engler's division into subfamilies largely relied on the characteristics of the fruit, as did others used until molecular phylogenetic methods were applied, which showed that Rutoideae cannot be clearly differentiated from other members of the family based on fruit.
Kalanchoe × houghtonii is a hybrid between Kalanchoe daigremontiana and Kalanchoe delagoensis named after Arthur Duvernoix Houghton.
Similarly, all gaseous molecules emitted and received by plants such as oxygen must pass through the apoplast.
Diversity Non-vascular land plants The non-vascular land plants, namely the mosses (Bryophyta), hornworts (Anthocerotophyta), and liverworts (Marchantiophyta), are relatively small plants, often confined to environments that are humid or at least seasonally moist.
Taxonomy The species was originally discovered in Hale County, Alabama in 1873 by Julia Tutwiler, an Alabama prison reformer and educator.
gracile was described by Georg Roth in 1903 based on a specimen collected from Radstädter Tauern Pass, also in Salzburg, Austria.
Pacek-Bieniek A., Budowa i aktywność elajoforów w kwiatach wybranych gatunków z rodziny storczykowatych (Orchidaceae), Uniwersytet Przyrodniczy w Lublinie, 2011.
Moth bean: is an Indian dal main ingredient for popular Indian snack bikaneri bhujia and Maharashtrian snacks misal and usal.
Vegetative propagation also allows plants to avoid the costly and complex process of producing sexual reproduction organs such as flowers and the subsequent seeds and fruits.
Botanical examples The carnivorous plant Nepenthes deaniana has pitcher elements that are obconic in shape to capture insects.
Historical use One of the first written texts covering the use of ginseng as a medicinal herb was the Shen Nong Pharmacopoeia, written in China in 196 AD.
Seed soaking is generally done by placing seeds in medium hot water for at least 24 to up to 48 hours Seed cleaning is done especially with fruit, as the flesh of the fruit around the seed can quickly become prone to attack from insects or plagues.
The age of the organ also affects the epiphytic bacteria population and characteristics and has a role in the inhibition of phytopathogen on plant.
& T.E.Almeid (3 genera) Subfamily Thelypteridoideae C.F.Reed (27 genera) Suborder Polypodiineae Dumort.
Many club-moss gametophytes are mycoheterotrophic and long-lived, residing underground for several years before emerging from the ground and progressing to the sporophyte stage.
In 1868, it was noted that no plant had been found since 1833, nor could a herbarium specimen be located.
For lists pertaining specifically to the Cherokee, Iroquois, Navajo, and Zuni, see Cherokee ethnobotany, Iroquois ethnobotany, Navajo ethnobotany, and Zuni ethnobotany.
indica is reportedly naturalized in Austria, Portugal, Spain, Azores, Canary Islands, Cape Verde, Madeira, most of tropical Africa, Ascension Island, St.
He recognized stolons as axillary, subterranean branches that do not bear green leaves but only membranaceous, scale-like ones.
Kigelia or "sausage seed" (botanical name Kigelia africana) can produce pods weighing up to 12 kg (26 lb), and 12–20 cm (4+1⁄2–8 in) long, but the pod contains seeds.
A few angiosperms produce vascular tissue in the outer integument, the orientation of which suggests that the outer surface is morphologically abaxial.
Once a tree has been removed from its environment and the wood has been processed, it can often be hard to identify the provenance or age of a specific piece.
Specific cultures might have favoured specific wood types for ritual purposes, giving a clue as to the use of found objects.
The flowers are strongly favoured by many butterflies besides fritillaries, such as the monarch, skippers, and the various types of tiger swallowtail.
Fruiting spurs are specialized twigs that generally branch off the sides of branches and are stubby and slow-growing, with many annular ring markings from seasons past.
Male and female sporophylls are spirally aggregated into determinate cones that grow along the axis.
Alternatively, the family may be submerged in a very broadly defined family Aspleniaceae as the subfamily Thelypteridoideae.
They range from 1 to 10 m in length and the presence of them can be used to separate hardwoods from softwoods.
Active Philosophy in Education and Science: Paradigms and Language-Games, published in 1985 (Cambridge, MA: Allen and Unwin.
The two classes of flowering plants (angiosperms) are distinguished by their numbers of seed leaves: monocotyledons (monocots) have one blade-shaped cotyledon, whereas dicotyledons (dicots) possess two round cotyledons.
While plants grown from seed are more likely to have the swollen caudex at a young age, with time many cutting-grown plants cannot be distinguished from seed-grown plants.
Epiphytic bacteria are removed from the plant surface through ultraviolet radiation, chemical surface disinfection, and washing .
Water sprouts are selected for this process due to their age and flexibility classifying them as a soft wood cutting ideal for the practice.
One of the best examples occurs in Ipomopsis aggregata where there is increased seed production and seed siring in damaged plants compared to undamaged plants (Figure 4; Edwards 2009).
(By contrast, the principal generation phase in non-vascular plants is the gametophyte, which produces gametes and is haploid, with one set of chromosomes per cell.) Vascular plants have true roots, leaves, and stems, even if some groups have secondarily lost one or more of these traits.
The woody trunk of the tree is equipped with irregular and thorny branches and can reach 50 cm in circumference.
Tannosomes condense tannins in chlorophyllous organs, providing defenses against herbivores and pathogens, and protection against UV radiation.
A vertical ecosystem is an architectural gardening system developed by Ignacio Solano from the mur vegetal created by Patrick Blanc.
Later work showed that transgenic seed can be obtained by simply dipping flowers into a suitable bacterial suspension.
The spores are then separated with a micromanipulator needle and deposited in separate positions on a petri dish.
A NO mutant resulted in inhibition of vacuolation but when GA was later added the process was active again leading to the belief that NO is prior to GA in the pathway.
Helianthus × laetiflorus, the cheerful sunflower or perennial sunflower, is a plant in the family of Asteraceae.
Although of low bioavailability, some supplements boost potency via a variety of preparation techniques.
Ingesting tutu berries was linked with many deaths of children during the early European settlement of New Zealand, as well as livestock deaths.
Discovery The hybrid was first discovered by George Lawson in July 1845 at Gullane, East Lothian, Scotland, and two voucher specimens were deposited in the herbarium of William Gardiner, Dundee.
Antioxidant systems are also activated to mitigate damage from reactive oxygen species generated during stress.
Deployment in triticale in New South Wales and Queensland, Australia, however, rapidly showed virulence between 1982 and 1984 – the first virulence on this gene in the world.
Berberidopsidales, Buxales, Crossosomatales, Fabales p.p., Geraniales, Gunnerales, Myrtales p.p., Proteales, Saxifragales, Vitales, Zygophyllales, Clusiaceae Alliance, Passifloraceae Alliance, Dilleniaceae, Huaceae, Picramniaceae, Sabiaceae.
A locule (pl.: locules) or loculus (Latin for 'little place'; pl.: loculi) is a small cavity or compartment within an organ or part of an organism (animal, plant, or fungus).
In typical modern flowers, the outer or enclosing whorl of organs forms sepals, and is specialised for protection of the flower bud as it develops, while the inner whorl forms petals, which attract pollinators.
In ancient Greek medicine plum blossoms were used to treat bleeding gums, mouth ulcers and tighten loose teeth.
The structure of water-sprout regrowth is not as strong as that of the original tree, and the shoots are more subject to diseases and pests.
& A.R.Sm The extinct genus Holttumopteris from the Cenomanian aged Burmese amber has been suggested to have affinities with the family, but several important diagnostic characters are not preserved.
In some classifications, half-inferior ovaries are not recognized and are instead grouped with either the superior or inferior ovaries.
National Cheng Kung University, a university located in Tainan, included royal poinciana on its emblem.
The former has either no cells or a single cell layer between the megasporophyte and the epidermal cells, while the latter has multiple cell layers between.
The weak acids excreted by lampenflora can also cause damage to and change limestone and other rocks.
Background Classification systems serve the purpose of grouping organisms by characteristics common to each group.
Other theories state that the heat may provide a heat reward for the pollinator: pollinators are drawn to the flower for its warmth.
Etymology The word catkin is a loanword from the Middle Dutch katteken, meaning "kitten" (compare also German Kätzchen).
odorata 'Mutabilis' is widely cultivated, and is notable for the fact that the blooms change colour from yellow to pink.
The spinach family includes sugar beets, which account for a fifth of the world's sugar consumption.
Many palms (notably the feather palms) and most cycads and grevilleas have pinnately divided leaves.
In terms of differential equations, if S {\displaystyle S} is the current size, and d S d t {\displaystyle {\frac {dS}{dt}}} its growth rate, then relative growth rate is R G R = 1 S d S d t {\displaystyle RGR={\frac {1}{S}}{\frac {dS}{dt}}} .
Some plants can be grown from leaf pieces, called leaf cuttings, which produce both stems and roots.
While most of the early herbaria were prepared with sheets bound into books, Carl Linnaeus came up with the idea of maintaining them on free sheets that allowed their easy re-ordering within cabinets.
Medical research Compounds of icariin, astragalus, and puerarin mitigates iron overload in the cerebral cortex of mice with Alzheimer's disease.
caesium: Hieracium caesium - rare Hieracium coniops - rare Hieracium laeticolor - rare Hieracium plumbeum - rare Hieracium ravidum Hieracium aggr.
Some plants (like certain plants modified using genetic use restriction technology) may produce seed, but not a fertile seed.
Some early molecular phylogenies suggested it was the sister group to all other angiosperms, but more recent research suggests that it is the sister group to the eudicots.
IDD - incomplete distribution data Anthocerotophyta (hornworts) Anthocerotaceae Notothyladaceae Bryophyta (mosses) Andreaeaceae Andreaeobryaceae Archidiaceae Aulacomniaceae Bartramiaceae Bryaceae Catoscopiaceae Hypopterygiaceae Meesiaceae === Mniaceae ===
In response to stimuli An important aspect of plant behavior includes responding to directional stimuli, which requires changes in the cellular signaling to control spatial elements.
Recent supplement products have included ginseng as a core ingredient in formulations aimed at enhancing vitality, stamina, and hormonal balance in men.
After Vasek hypothesized that the creosote ring was, in fact, one organism, Leonel da Silveira Lobo O'Reilly Sternberg (then a graduate student working in Vasek's lab), documented that plants within a ring had more similar characteristics than those from other plant clusters.
In dicots, the hypocotyl is what appears to be the base stem under the spent withered cotyledons, and the shoot just above that is the epicotyl.
In Bhutan, it has been found growing on damp mossy logs in shady ravines within wet mixed broad-leaved forest.
It is also used: To treat night blindness or optic atrophy, either alone or as a component of Shi Ju Ming.
The optimal densities vary based on desired plant size, location and a variety of environmental factors and range from 30,000 to 90,000 plants per Hectare for Maize to 40 to 872 plants per square meter (400,000 - 8,720,000 per Hectare) for Winter Wheat.
The ferns are also referred to as Polypodiophyta or, when treated as a subdivision of Tracheophyta (vascular plants), Polypodiopsida, although this name sometimes only refers to leptosporangiate ferns.
However, there is still a great deal left unknown in how exactly an extracellular stimulus leads to cytoskeletal rearrangement, nuclear movement, and ultimately integration of stimuli to guide plant behavior.
Minerals are absorbed in the roots (a source) and transported to the shoots to allow cell division and growth.
These ascospores land on young shoots, leaf buds, and flower buds of blueberry plants, where they cause a primary infection.
They also play a role as replacement vegetation when the alder grove is destroyed, as well as constituting the dominant vegetation of the riverbanks in those mountain areas that lack alder groves due to altitude, generally above 1000 meters.
Uses The leaves can be used to make an herbal tea (tisane), and the berries are edible and taste sweet.
montana are subtle; they can breed with each other, and introduced kudzu populations in the United States apparently have ancestry from more than one of the subspecies.
The starch is occasionally marketed commercially as "arrowroot", a name also applied to the starch of other similar roots crops such as Maranta arundinacea.
Eine Enzyklopädie zu eponymischen Pflanzennamen [Encyclopedia of eponymic plant names] (pdf) (in German).
Samuel Burton Green (29 January 1941 – 9 August 1999) was an openly gay psychiatric nurse and Liberal politician who was elected as a member of Durham City Council in 1972, making him the first openly-gay politician in the UK and first known openly gay candidate in an election in Britain.
Moreover, in a letter to William Montgomerie, Abbot admitted that the idea of risking all on full-time writing scared him.
There are WRAP Facilitators in the United States, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, China, and Ireland trained by the Copeland Center or Advanced Level WRAP Facilitators trained by the Copeland Center.
Compared to private clinics, the fees for specialist outpatient services of the Hospital Authority are lower, but the waiting time can be as long as two years.
The awarding commission cited her "multidisciplinary research into the communication between doctors and patients, and her internationally used research method for quantifying non-verbal communication".
being-beyond-the-world Two other concepts structure Binswanger's view on existence, relating to the relationship between humans and the world or objects around them.
Early life Hester Agnes Pinsent was born in 1899, in Harborne, Birmingham, Staffordshire, the only daughter of Hume Chancellor Pinsent (a relative of the philosopher David Hume) and his wife Dame Ellen Pinsent (née Parker).
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.131.4.483 References External links Faculty Profile Lab Website (CAIP Lab) Andres De Los Reyes publications indexed by Google Scholar Future Directions Forum Website Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology
Satwant Pasricha of the Maulana Azad Medical College appreciates her work on the subject, but he also places not-verifiable truth like "rebirth" and “reincarnation” out of the domain of the scientific knowledge.
Cameron is an American neuroscientist who researches adult neurogenesis and diseases involving the hippocampus.
Altschul also did a mathematics degree at the Open University, was involved in assessing the joint education of architects and engineers, and was a volunteer teacher of mathematics at a local primary school (for under 11 year olds).
After three years of studies a crisis of vocation led him away from Law and into Art, especially theatre and creativity.
Education and career Indermaur graduated from the University of Western Australia, obtaining a masters in clinical psychology in 1979 and a Doctor of Law in 1997.
He worked in the National Health Service as a clinical psychologist at psychiatric hospitals, including Barrow Hospital, Bristol, Winterton Hospital, County Durham, and Graylingwell Hospital, Chichester.
Integrating multi-informant reports of youth mental health: A construct validation test of Kraemer and Colleagues’ (2003) Satellite Model.
In 1950 they moved to a house at 29 Andover Street and called it "the Clinic for Medical Psychology".
She established Positive Movement to champion sexual and reproductive health rights and build an inclusive society that does not judge people based on disabilities or HIV status.
Much of her work with HGAPS has involved updating Wikipedia pages for symptom measures to make these tools easily accessible.
Her work in sex education also involved postgraduate courses, seminars and lectures for groups including doctors and other professionals.
The book "guides readers on how to find and nurture more fulfilling friendships." Personal life Harden Bradford is married.
In 2012 Morse began a four-year run as guest co-host on the nationally syndicated Loveline radio show with Dr.
She then became a reader in nursing at the University of Teesside, and deputy director of the Teesside Centre for Rehabilitation Sciences.
The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences and the Institute of Psychology at Chemnitz University subsequently publicly distanced themselves from his statement and his colleagues criticized the article for mixing opinion and facts and for drawing discriminatory conclusions.
In 1821, on the death of James Gregory, Duncan became first Physician to the King in Scotland, having held the same office to the Prince of Wales for more than thirty years.
Charles Lamb gave the highest possible praise to his friend's Dramatic Sketches when he said that had he found them as anonymous manuscript in the Garrick Collection he would have had no hesitation about including them in his Dramatic Specimens.
She is also the founder and co-founder of multiple women's organizations and networks in Afghanistan and the region.
He served as an assistant professor of psychiatry at Tufts University School of Medicine and directed family therapy training at New England Medical Center Hospital.
Her children's books are known for their whimsical illustrations of animals and stories told in rhyme.
She has led longitudinal studies examining supported decision making (since 2015) and the quality of support in group homes (since 2009) for people with intellectual disabilities.
Her publication titled "Safer Bars: A cluster-randomized effectiveness evaluation of alcohol-related sexual violence prevention through bar staff bystander training" aimed to assess Safer Bars, a program that trains bartenders on the warning signs of sexual assault perpetration.
In 1988 she published her book Power from Within that summed up Batten's work as ‘an artist, teacher and ritual maker’ up to that time.
"Rooming-in" - newborn babies sharing a room with their mothers from birth onward - was an issue that divided Bevan-Brown and the Parents' Centres from the medical profession when the Centres considered federating at their conference in 1957, and needed official recognition.
Published works Bigby has published extensively in peer-reviewed journals, books and reports on disability practice and policy, including co-authoring systematic reviews and frameworks for supported decision making and community participation.
He is professor and chair of psychiatry and psychotherapy at the University of Fribourg in Switzerland.
At Stanford, she collaborated with Andrew Ng, and became interested in whether artificial intelligence can meaningfully help people with mental health conditions.
She was mentioned in a Sargent Shriver speech about the Peace Corps, appeared in a Peace Corps publicity film, and featured in a Life magazine article in 1965, about the culture shock returning volunteers faced.
He married Essi Matilda Forster (née Christian, who was the first female Gold Coast native to become a lawyer) on 17 December 1944.
She received her bachelor's degree from Xavier University of Louisiana and her master's degree in vocational rehabilitation counseling from Arkansas State University.
She has taught at the University of Oregon and, up until her retirement in 2016 from providing counseling services, was co-director with her husband, Larry Maltz, of Maltz Counseling Associates therapy practice in Eugene, Oregon.
He began writing stories while he was at the university and publishing some articles and short stories in local and daily newspapers.
After his debut, he played a number of minor matches against Sussex in 1956, as well as the touring New Zealanders and Worcestershire, both in 1959.
She is active in Helping Give Away Psychological Science (HGAPS), a 501(c)3, focused on disseminating information to promote well-being in the community.
Honors Officer of Order of Merit of the Italian Republic "On the initiative of the President of the Republic" - 2 December 1997 References External links ( EN ) Works by Emmanuele Jannini, on Open Library, Internet Archive .
After attending Retford High School for Girls in Nottinghamshire she went to train as a nurse at Leeds General Infirmary, qualified in 1944, and worked there, first as a staff nurse, then in 1946 as a sister on a ward where there were some psychiatric patients.
The fourth, co-edited with Marianne Soff (Karlsruhe, Germany), was published in 2022: it is the revised and expanded third edition of Gestalt psychologist Wolfgang Metzger's fundamental work "Schöpferische Freiheit - Gestalttheorie des Lebendigen" (Creative Freedom - Gestalt theory of the living).
He was privately educated in Southampton and at Highgate School, followed by King's College London and King's College Hospital.
Rejecting his father's wish that he should join the ironworks business, Prichard decided upon a medical career.
Ian Robertson has published more than 200 books and articles in leading journals, including Nature, Brain, Journal of Neuroscience, and Psychological Bulletin.
Samo dela ljubavi ostaju (Just the Work of Love Remains; preface by monk Mitrophan of Hilandar), Novi dani, Belgrade 1994.
While their research was in process, they became guinea pigs for their own experiments when they became addicted to cocaine.
He also works extensively on issues surrounding mentorship and skills-based approaches to early career development.
Rush's NYRF Rape Conference presentation about incest and childhood sexual abuse reviewed psychiatric and psychoanalytical literature from Freud to that time that attributed such problems to children's seduction of adults or erotic fantasies.
Dovzhenko's method was approved by the Department for Implementing of Medication and Medical Equipment of the Ministry of Healthcare and by the Ministry of Healthcare of Soviet Ukraine.
He has written a treatment manual for the application of this model and treatment to anxiety and mood disorders.
Given these health problems, and knowing his end was not far off, he asked to spend the remainder of his life at Dinan in France, where he died on 24 April 1914.
Lynch made his first appearance for the team during the 1982 championship and became a regular player over subsequent seasons until his retirement in 1989.
Beliefs about sexuality Kotb cites Al-Baqara ("The Cow"), the longest surah (chapter) of the Quran, as her inspiration for understanding human sexuality, noting that it speaks about the daily life of a man and woman and commands the man to provide pleasure to his wife.
While at Johns Hopkins, she was founding director of the Center for Mental Health and Addiction Policy and the Johns Hopkins StigmaLab.
Leadership role: Helps the patient assume maximum responsibility for meeting treatment goals in a mutually satisfying way.
Dovzhenko Republican Narcological Psychotherapy Center (Республиканский Наркологический Психотерапевтический Центр им.
He became a lecturer at Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry in 1992, and became a professor there in 1998.
Anderson nevertheless trained successfully as a nurse at Nottingham General Hospital and did psychiatric nursing at the Coppice Hospital.
When the Whigs came to power in 1830 under Lord Grey, Vernon was appointed a Lord of the Treasury (government whip), which he remained also when Lord Melbourne became Prime Minister in July 1834.
In August 2021, Yuma moved to Barcelona together with her partner Zhenya, their daughters Alina and Mila and Alina's partner Ksyusha.
The New York Times described Kaplan as someone who was "considered a leader among scientific-oriented sex therapists.
As a faculty member of psychology at the University of New Brunswick, she established the Muriel McQueen Fergusson Centre for Family Violence.
He was appointed physician in ordinary to George IV in 1823, in 1830 physician extraordinary to Queen Adelaide, and in 1833 lord chancellor's visitor in lunacy.
Joan Garriga Bacardí (Bellpuig, Lleida, 28 November 1957) is a Gestalt and humanistic psychologist and psychotherapist.
She then returned to nursing as a community psychiatric nurse, specialising in working with families.
In 1974, she was appointed the executive director of the Hinds County Association for Mental Health.
Her efforts to strive to promote human rights, women rights, equality, justice and peace during her work as the Minister of Women's Affairs are published in two books.
"Emotional Distress Among LGBT Youth: The Influence of Perceived Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation".
Life He was born at 106 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh on 24 June 1833 the son of Jane Graham (1807–1875), from Clonmel, Ireland and William Sibbald (1799–1877).
Following service with the Royal Air Force Police during the Second World War, he worked in the National Health Service in psychiatric hospitals.
He served as a professor and Deputy Medical Superintendent at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore.
Davis is also a licensed clinical psychologist in the state of Arizona and was previously licensed in the state of Washington.
In 1922, he authored The Heart of the Anti-Vivisectionist which criticized arguments of the anti-vivisection movement.
A new republic, a united Ireland, and the importance of the Irish language were key themes in her speech, saying that it will be the working language in Áras an Uachtaráin.
Mary Dobbie says in her history of Parents' Centres New Zealand that Bevan-Brown was the centre of a "ferment" of controversy among psychology students in staid Christchurch in the 1940s.
Of modest family origins, he established a lucrative private practice and served as Governor of Guy's Hospital, Fullerian Professor of Physiology and President of the Clinical Society.
Both published articles about their work, and Skellern's papers have been described as giving a "definitive picture of the new developments in psychiatric nursing in the 1950s".
An investigation of an abnormality of cognitive function in a cooperative young psychotic: an example of the application of experimental method to the single case.
Playing career A native of Bohermore in Galway city, Inky played in his first county championship final for Liam Mellows in 1935.
Geological studies Retiring to England, Crichton wrote several books dealing with medical and geological subjects, becoming a member of the Geological Society in 1811.
He provoked the students by arguing that mind and consciousness are not spiritual entities, separate from the body; they are simple spin-offs from brain activity.
History Copeland's work is based on the study of the coping and wellness strategies of people who have experienced mental health challenges.
Career Skarbek learned English on his arrival in Britain and entered St Mary's Hospital, London, qualifying as a doctor in 1954.
The intervention integrates principles from sleep and circadian science, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, interpersonal and social rhythm therapy, chronotherapy, and motivational interviewing.
Murphy was part of a team at Washington University that helped move American psychiatry toward evidence-based medicine.
She is founder of the Ayesha Chundrigar Foundation, a non profit animal rescue organization based in Karachi, Pakistan.
Father Rami Elias is a member of the Catholic Synod in Syria founded by both the clergy and lay people, working towards reconsidering the Church doctrine and its religious discourse, in coordination with the Episcopal Council and the Eastern Catholic Synod in Rome.
She incorporated the advice and experience of Eva Le Gallienne, her friend and neighbor, as well as researching her stories backstage at La Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theatre in New York City.
in psychology in 1995 on the subject of teacher evaluations from Heidelberg University and completed a Habilitation in 2005 on the topic of teacher quality at University of Koblenz and Landau.
"Parental attitudes about sexually transmitted infection vaccination for their adolescent children".
The resource person is also in charge of relaying information to the patient about the treatment plan.
Nanbudo Turković founded the Gradec Nanbudo Club in Zagreb in 1978, named after the old part of Zagreb.
Born at Gy, a small village in the Haute-Saône department, he was member of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences and researched mental illnesses and phrenology.
Writing and publications She has contributed to various anthologies on sexuality and human rights, which have been covered in media and scholarly reviews.
The book throws light on some attempts made to recognise these rights and ensure their acceptance in society." Chandiramani published an analysis of the demographics and impact of TARSHI's helpline in a 1998 issue of the journal Reproductive Health Matters.
His treatise containing Celtic compared with Sanskrit words appeared in 1831 under the title Eastern Origin of the Celtic Nations.
They are usually not distinguished persons; they may be teachers at secondary schools, or those engaged in special education, or those working in hospitals in remote areas.
“Memory function” in psychiatric patients over sixty, some methodological and diagnostic implications.
Early life and education Hanneman was born on a farm in Lincoln County, Kansas, and raised in Junction City, the daughter of Frank William Hanneman and Lydia Ellen Vonada Hanneman.
However the Whig government, by a majority of 145, amended this to substitute "thirteen" in place of "eighteen" and the act as it passed ensured that no child under thirteen worked more than nine hours.
Public psychiatry is very rewarding, and with disadvantaged patients, together with over-worked colleagues, clinicians have the potential to make a difference.
Mony Elkaïm (7 November 1941 – 20 November 2020) was a Moroccan-Belgian psychiatrist and psychotherapist.
From 2006 until his retirement Zimet was a faculty member in the Cancer Prevention and Control Program of the Indiana University Simon Comprehensive Cancer Center.
Physical dependence can happen with the chronic use of many drugs—including even appropriate, medically instructed use.
Career Chundrigar headed a refugee camp of 700 displaced people in Islamabad after the 2005 earthquake in Pakistan.
Ayesha Chundrigar (Urdu: عائشہ چندریگر) is a Pakistani animal welfare activist, entrepreneur and journalist.
Shirley Edith Zussman (née Dlugasch; July 23, 1914 – December 4, 2021) was an American sex therapist based in New York City.
She has been the editor-in-chief of the Journal of Psychosocial Nursing and Mental Health Services since 1981.
Salzer was ordained as a pastor in 1989, and worked for ten years at the Kaiser-Franz-Josef-Spital in Vienna, becoming engaged in the education of voluntary pastoral caretakers (Seelsorger).
Since 2011, he has chaired the working group "Stress-associated disorders" for ICD-11 revision by World Health Organization.
But since none of them managed to look like a little girl, Chespirito offered her the role of Paty, given her beauty and girlish face, in addition to her resemblance to the actress Regina Torné, who played the role of Aunt Gloria.
Creative works In 2010, Graham contributed an essay to the BBC Radio 3 "Letter to My Body" series, in which he expressed how the discovery that he was intersex led to addiction and depression.
In the 1980s and 1990s Indermaur worked on criminal investigations involving drugs and violent crime.
Hughes has researched and introduced creative techniques for personal development, including using embodied imagery in nature, the universal theory of archetypes, and adapting the Tibetan tradition of mandala-making to map individual values.
Awards 2016 Best Business Management Idea of the Year 2016 Books for a Better Life Award Winner | Psychology 2017 Thinkers50 Breakthrough Idea of the Year 2017 Axiom Business Book Award Medalist References External links "The gift and power of emotional courage" (TED talk), 2017.
He has received advanced statistical training at the University of Essex, UK, and at the Universities of Michigan in Ann Arbor and Yale, US.
She is an researcher and holds additional faculty affiliate roles at the Rutgers Center of Alcohol & Substance Use Studies at Rutgers University.
In 1870 he returned to Edinburgh to become deputy superintendent of the Royal Edinburgh Hospital under Dr David Skae.
Burns held various positions at Boston College, Harvard University, Hood College, the University of Maryland, and Johns Hopkins University before moving to Duke.
After working as part of a clinical research team studying serious mental disorders, MacIntosh joined the faculty of the University of Canterbury in 2017, rising to full professor in the School of Psychology, Speech and Hearing in 2022.
As an educator, Pulotu-Endemann rose to be associate-head of Manawatu Polytechnic's Nursing and Health Studies (now UCOL).
Films In 2016, Hughes directed The Moving Theatre, a documentary using art to share people's migration experiences.
The ban was criticized by some publications, with critics arguing that labeling her educational content as "prurient" perpetuates shame and hinders open discussions about sex.
During that time he won three All-Ireland winners' medals, three Munster winners' medals, one National Football League winners' medal and one All-Star award.
Edwards-Leeper stated that Lisa Littman's studies on detransitioners is a "critical preliminary step toward shedding light on" this population.
In 1973, she took San Francisco Sex Information's (SFSI) training, and was a member of their training staff for 20 years.
She was the first curator at the Kitale Museum when it opened in 1973, under the supervision of Richard Leakey.
Her dissertation was titled, Psychosocial Factors Associated with Women's Behavioral Intentions to Store Firearms Safely: An Application of the Theory of Planned Behavior.
Professor Thom helped to establish the network International Society of Addiction Journal Editors, a collective of Editors and Editorial Board members working in the Addiction field.
She developed opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and meningitis, and as a result she became blind and deaf in one ear.
In an 1809 edition of a work on insanity he included a detailed description of the case of James Tilly Matthews which is one of the earliest and clearest recordings of paranoid schizophrenia.
She was co-investigator on The Manchester Language Study, the largest UK longitudinal study of developmental language impairment.
She was a consultant at the Medical Foundation for the Victims of Torture during a period of expansion at the centre.
More specifically she investigates how coercion operates across gay and heterosexual populations with a focus on Brazilian, Spaniard, and Moroccan cultures.
In 1803, Crichton was invited to become the emperor of Russia's personal physician, and between 1804 and 1819 was appointed Physician in Ordinary (personal physician) to Tsar Alexander I of Russia and to Maria Feodorovna, the Dowager Empress.
Her research with Mathews demonstrated the role of mental imagery in generating emotional responses.
Other artists who found Batten's focus on community influential included Carol Shepheard who participated in Batten's Lifescape environment.
Culbertson Travel Grant to support women from developing countries in the early stages of their careers.
The documentary was selected in 1974 to be preserved in the National Film Archive and was re-released on DVD in 2014 as part of World in Action: Volume 4.
Edelstein Three Minute Therapy: Change Your Thinking, Change Your Life, a psychological self-help book based on Albert Ellis's rational emotive behavior therapy, re-released in paperback, 2019.
François Simonet de Coulmier (30 September 1741 – 4 June 1818) was a French Catholic priest, originally a member of the Premonstratensian canons regular, and an active member of the French legislature at the start of the French Revolution and again during the First French Empire.
Royal College of Nursing Carter succeeded Beverly Malone as general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing in January 2007.
She was the second president of the Association of Deans of Women and Advisors to Girls in Negro Schools, and served two terms as president of the National Association of College Women.
The Disorganized and Disadvantaged Family: Structure and Process (1967) Psychoanalytic Therapies and the Low Socioeconomic Population (1968) Families and Family Therapy.
During the Spanish–American War, she volunteered for service on the "Bay State", a hospital ship of Massachusetts Volunteer Aid Association, used to evacuate sick and wounded military personnel from Cuba and Puerto Rico.
In 2023 the Scottish Council for Development and Industry (SCDI) decided to relaunch itself under the new name of "Prosper" and as President of COSLA Morrison was involved in the process.
While studying medicine at the University of Edinburgh under William Cullen (1710-1790) he became a Freemason and was initiated in the Lodge Holyrood House (Saint Luke), No.44 in 1763.
A new Inebriates Act was working through parliament to allow magistrates to compulsorily admit habitual drunkards into Inebriate Reformatories for treatment for 3 years.
Bibliography The Pineapple Duck with the Peppermint Bill (Bobbs-Merrill, 1968) A Delightful Day with Bella Ballet (Oddo Publ., 1972) The Houndstooth Check (Oddo, 1972) The Simple Pink Bubble That Ended the Trouble with Jonathan Hubble (Oddo, 1972) The King, the Queen, and the Lima Bean (Oddo, 1974).
Ranked second in the 1981 National College Entrance Exam of Afghanistan (Kankor) at the national level.
Like several other former Nogizaka46 members, she is still signed to the Nogizaka46 management and has made public appearances related to her current occupation.
The Needs-to-Goals Gap: How informant discrepancies in youth mental health assessments impact service delivery.
CDS & ADHD pioneer He was the first person to distinguish between at least two kinds of disorders of attention, one a disorder of distractibility, lack of sustained attention, and poor inhibition resembling present-day combined presentation of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
She worked as a medical doctor in the Department of Psychiatry at Tokyo University following World War II.
While serving as the pastor of Abbeville, he was elected as a representative of the First Estate in the Estates General, later serving in the National Constituent Assembly.
Across his four first-class matches, Neville scored a total of 143 runs at an average of 17.87, with a highest score of 38.
His father Matthew Poole (or Pool) owned a coffee house and hotel at 1 Princes Street and lived above.
He divides his attention between attending therapeutic teaching conferences, which have taken him around the world, and the writing of his books, which he considers therapeutic tools.
In 1976 he worked as a psychologist for prisoners in Western Australia, researching public views on punishment for crimes and court sentencing.
Both are fully present in the moment and feel a union with the other." The four major concepts in the science of caring are health, nursing, environment or society, and human being.
In the late 1830s he was a pioneer advocate of mental health reform, and in 1838 he became superintendent of the Montrose Asylum, succeeding W.
Research Bigby’s research focuses on practice that enhances the engagement, inclusion, and quality of life of adults and older people who have intellectual and cognitive disabilities.
In October 2004 she received her 'Doctorate in Human Sexuality' from the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco.
She also acquired certifications in sex and relationship therapy from the Cambridge Health Alliance of Harvard Medical School and Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS).
He started to be known as Andrew Skarbek and in 1969 became clinical director of the London Clinic of Psychotherapy.
Arnold published a two-volume work titled Observations on the Nature, Kinds, Causes and Prevention of Insanity, the first volume appearing in 1782 and the second in 1806.
In 2017, Salzer was a founding member of the initiative Omas gegen Rechts together with Susanne Scholl.
In 1782, Duncan founded the Harveian Society of Edinburgh, which also still meets today and - like other Harveian societies - celebrates the work of physician and anatomist William Harvey, especially concerning the circulation of the blood.
It maintains the scalability and agency that define self-help techniques while enhancing (rather than replacing) human healthcare providers and unlocking the therapeutic power associated with guiding.
She received her BA degree from Fort Hare University in 1977, and completed her Honours in Psychology in 1979.
Graham made the decision "after being quoted £35,000 on Airbnb for a month’s stay." == References ==
Later, Byers, Kaitlyn Goldsmith and Amanda Miller concluded that out of 107 men and 102 women, only 30 percent would choose to live life as the opposite gender.
She then taught at the University of Surrey for some years before returning to Scotland, this time to the University of Glasgow where she became Head of the Section of Psychological Medicine and led the development of the Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
More recently she has participated in research around aging and the benefits of mindfulness and community.
"Variables in delayed disclosure of childhood sexual abuse." American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 71.3 (2001): 332.
Early life and education Zussman was born Shirley Edit Dlugasch on July 23, 1914, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
Bibliography He is author of a book on resiliency and on the gut-brain-connection, both published in German (“Resilienz: Der Wir-Faktor”, Schattauer-Verlag, "Die Darm-Hirn-Connection: Revolutionäres Wissen für unsere psychische und körperliche Gesundheit", Schattauer-Verlag).
Kamiya entered the Juyu Gakuen, but changed her school within a few months to the Girls' High School of Seijo Gakuen (it now has a higher education department; Seijo University).
Although she joined NYU in 2022, she remains affiliated with Northwell Health and the Zucker School of Medicine.
George Earl Murphy (October 17, 1922 – 2022) was an American psychiatrist who made seminal contributions to research on suicide, psychotherapy, and alcoholism.
This opened in 1897 in front of Horfield Prison as the Royal Victoria Home, for Inebriate Women, licensed as a (Voluntary) Retreat under the 1879 Habitual Drunkards Act.
It includes series of authored and co-authored papers, artwork, and poetry in the form of an "Archive of Resistance: Anti-Anorexia/anti-Bulimia." Publications 1989.
Academic career Spring has held faculty appointments in preventive medicine, psychology, and psychiatry, and has worked at the intersection of behavioral science and public health.
In 1866, he was elected President of the Medico-Psychological Association, and he used his Presidential Address as an opportunity to spell out (at considerable length) his concepts of medical psychology.
Ballantine Books.Publication date June 27, 2023 ISBN 9780593497241 See also Race and health in the United States Mental distress References External links Official website
She was inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame, and awarded the Magnus Hirschfeld Medal, the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, the Leo Baeck Medal, the Planned Parenthood Margaret Sanger Award, and the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.
After education at private schools in and near Great Yarmouth, his brother Robert proposed to establish him in his house in London in order that he might study anatomy under Sir Anthony Carlisle at Westminster Hospital.
In 1993, Orford moved to the University of Birmingham initially to direct the training programme in clinical psychology.
In November 2000, the GPA's first annual general meeting took place in Killarney, County Kerry, where Farrell was elected as chairman.
He was clinically trained at the Shalvata Mental Health Center in Hod-Hasharon, Israel (1997–1999) and the Yale Child Study Center (2002–2004).
David Westbrook commended his writing style, stating he employed a "balanced approach" and wrote in a "clear" manner.
Work Pasricha has investigated and participated in about 500 cases of reincarnation involving children (referred to as subjects) since 1973 who claim to remember previous lives.
Crichton's extensive collection of minerals consisted mainly of specimens from Siberia, Russia, Norway, Hungary, Germany, the UK, the US and India.
As a reforming feminist, she ensured that her writing was non-sexist at a time when others had not yet adapted their attitudes.
ISBN 978-0-7553-5526-6 Non fiction A Load of Old Balls: Men in History (London: Simon & Schuster, 1994).
A recovered alcoholic, (treated by Max Glatt), Bolton founded the Rutland Centre for addiction treatment in 1978, and co-founded the Irish branch of Narcotics Anonymous in 1983.
The reservoir's water level is normally 1,991 meters above sea level, but on November 10 was only 1,968 meters above sea level.
An international appeal was made by the United Nations, NGOs, and the Red Cross and Red Crescent for around US$25 million to assist the government.
The national energy matrix has no emergency reserves and by 2004 it was functioning at the top of its capacity.
Essentially abandoning the intermediate designation in favor of becoming mid-size vehicles, the A-body vehicles adopted a footprint slightly smaller than the X-body compacts.
In fact, the Council of Economic Advisors published a consensus estimate that a one-year, 50 percent increase in the price of oil could temporarily raise the price level of the economy by one percent and potentially lower real output by the same amount.
The early stages of the Special Period were defined by a general breakdown in transportation and agricultural sectors, fertilizer and pesticide stocks (both of those being manufactured primarily from petroleum derivatives), and widespread food shortages.
China is the largest buyer of Iranian oil, and had stressed the importance of protecting global shipping routes.
The generic term is "transition initiative", which includes transition neighborhoods, communities, and cities, although "transition town" is in common usage.
which overlap with powerful fractions of the capitalist class," are the most responsible for environmental impacts through their consumption patterns worldwide.
Production Greer published a short version of this story on his blog, the Archdruid Report, in October 2012.
It is suggested that this process can help companies increase profitability by reducing raw material and waste disposal cost, reducing carbon emission, making their by-products a source of revenue to be bought by other business.
In March 2005, President Kirchner admitted that "for a long time the possibility will remain that we must move on the brink [of a crisis]".
However, the high process heat of the molten salt reactors could be used to make liquid fuels from any carbon source.
Factors which can modify this curve include: Inadequate demand for oil, which reduces steepness of the curve and pushes its peak into the future.
In 2016, the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and 11 other NGOs released a report on the impact of building new coal-fired power plants in countries where a significant proportion of the population lacks access to electricity.
Another elaborated about the saturation of demand hypothesis: They say as we get richer, we'll want to travel more.
Also that day, US military intelligence sources reported that Iran had begun planting naval mines in the Strait of Hormuz.
The actual shape of a graph of real world production trends is determined by various factors, such as development of enhanced production techniques, availability of competing resources, and government regulations on production or consumption.
Interest free loans were provided for the conversion of vehicles to run on gas and subsidies were provided for gas refueling infrastructure.
The addition of more complex power cycles would reduce this requirement and help enable frost free operation.
As winter approached, the Argentine government announced that it would restrict natural gas exports in order to preserve the supply for internal consumption, both domestic and industrial, in compliance with the Hydrocarbons Law.
In November 2010 by Millard-Ball and Schipper presented data confirming the trend in cities in eight nations: United States, Canada, Sweden, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Japan and Australia.
Themes currently in production Each set will be listed on the Playmobil shop either for sale or out of stock.
should be an important part of the University of Toronto's response to the challenges of climate change." However, the report went further, and allied itself with the Paris Agreement.
In October 2025, the government announced a moratorium on the zeroing of the fuel damper, the exemption of winter diesel fuel from excise duty, and an extension of the gasoline export ban until 1 May 2026.
The "environmental Kuznets curve" (EKC) hypothesis posits that at early stages of development, pollution per capita and GDP per capita move in the same direction.
According to Lewis after the Palestine Liberation Organization had reached an agreement with Israel, there was some division among the groups, however they continue to lobby for Palestinians.
History In the early days of the oil industry, there was no need for stimulation to improve recovery efficiency, because supply vastly outstripped demand and leaving "difficult" oil in the ground was economically expedient.
Government involvement The Australian government became involved in the scam in a number of ways—through defence-force agencies and personnel, through the export agency Austrade and directly through successful lobbying of federal minister for science Julie Bishop and Prime Minister John Howard.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
After Media Blasters' license expired, Discotek Media announced at Otakon 2018 on August 12 that they have picked up the series for a Blu-ray release.
Ecuador experienced rolling blackouts for two to six hours per day that lasted from November 2009 until January 2010.
One person interviewed in the movie questions whether it is a good idea to have both a president and vice president who are close to the oil industry.
In 2009 alone, the United Arab Emirates spent $5.3 million, as the Emirates were seeking nuclear technology.
The term proven reserves is further subdivided into proved developed reserves and proved undeveloped reserves.
While titles like Bubblegum Crisis 2040, Dirty Pair Flash and Tekkaman Blade gave modern spins to old classics, the creators of Giant Robo decided to go with a "retro" look.
According to estimates, 50% of the electricity generated in Argentina depends on gas-powered plants.
The signature Playmobil toy is a 7.5 cm (3.0 in) tall (1:24 scale) human figure with a smiling face.
This group also administers the "ring fence" corporation tax and supplementary charge paid by companies on profits from oil and gas production, and previously administered the royalty charged on the gross value of oil and gas won.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
1974, a blow-out at Champion-41 caused a delay in the appraisal/development operations and to compensate for this delay, eight isolated appraisal wells were drilled in 1975 - 1976.
The collectible card game Netrunner (also by Richard Garfield) has a card called "Nevinyrral" which has the effect of giving the Corporate player an extra action each turn, but if this card goes away the Corporate player loses.
Colin Campbell also contributed the foreword to the book and Heinberg quotes from his research in the book.
Dramarama (Icelandic: Villiljós) is a 2001 Icelandic comedy-drama film directed by Inga Lísa Middleton, Dagur Kári, Ragnar Bragason, Ásgrímur Sverrisson and Einar Thór Gunnlaugsson.
The 1967 Oil Embargo began on June 6, 1967, the second day of the Six-Day War, with a joint Arab decision to deter any countries from supporting Israel militarily.
On 31 March, Trump told countries that were having trouble getting fuel due to the closer to fend for themselves, saying that the US would not help them.
Past keynote speeches have been given by the energy secretaries and ministers of Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Mexico, Norway, and the United States.
That goal was based on a market that was 67 percent cars and 33 percent trucks and SUVs and higher fuel prices, but American customers weren't buying that many cars, as the market was still about 50/50 and was likely to stay that way.
But generations arise from shared formative experiences, not headcounts, and the two groups evolved with dramatic differences.
A survey of 301 businesses conducted by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry showed on 18 June 2008 that nearly 630 employees had already been, or could be, stood down or made redundant - nearly 1% of the workforce surveyed.
As for the global usefulness of the Hirsch conclusions, as of 2004, the US share of global oil consumption was about 26%, while its share of the world population was only 4.3%; Europe used 11% of global oil while having about 6.8% of the world population.
The United States advocated emergency measures in OECD meetings and supported the establishment of an International Industry Advisory Board.
Police are taking action, requesting petrol stations to close temporarily in order to keep traffic flowing.
Major metropolitan areas including Kyiv, Kharkiv, Odesa, and Zhytomyr developed emergency power systems for critical infrastructure, focusing on maintaining water supply, heating, and sanitation services.
Globalization and modernization have brought Western consumer cultures to countries like China and India, including meat-intensive diets which are supplanting traditional plant-based diets.
South Africa responded to anti-apartheid embargoes by switching from imported crude oil to coal liquefaction producing gasoline and diesel profitably from coal and natural gas using Fischer-Tropsch synthesis.
(NYT, Reuters) March 12: The near-month (April) crude oil futures price at the NYMEX settles at $37.83 per barrel, the highest near-month settlement price (in nominal terms) since October 1990.
It was capable of handling vessels up to 100 feet (30 m) long and weighing 100 tonnes (98 long tons; 110 short tons).
The government "ignored these precedents, as well as industry advice, to develop an appropriate contingency response plan to deal with such a crisis and accordingly deserves strong criticism".
On 10 November, during a visit by the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen to Moldova, a 250 million-euro financial package from the European Union (EU) was announced to help Moldova deal with its energy crisis.
Bardi concluded that rapid collapse is not a flaw, or "bug" as he terms it, but a "varied and ubiquitous phenomena" with multiple causes and resultant pathways.
Arab American civil rights and advocacy groups The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) was started in 1980 by United States Senator James Abourezk.
As the Chinese strategists had anticipated, the Americans are unable to imagine that they might actually be defeated, and therefore double down on their existing military strategy, further depleting American reserves and matériel.
They believe they share few traits and cultural touchstones with a noisy cohort that overshadowed them." Larry Edelman, writing for The Boston Globe and identifying as a Gen Joneser, said of his generation: "too young for Woodstock, too old to identify with Gen X.
Oil Embargo The Baghdad Resolutions were important because Egypt broadcast claims of US aircraft support on June 6.
Prices then dropped back to $60/barrel by the early part of 2007 before rising steeply again to $92/barrel by October 2007, and $99.29/barrel for December futures in New York on November 21, 2007.
Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) is a consulting company in the United States that specializes in advising governments and private companies on energy markets, geopolitics, industry trends, and strategy.
The list excludes fields where commercial development has been unsuccessful and fields with no current plan for development and extraction.
Plan is to allow for gradual 2-3 percent annual price increases, however, domestic petroleum prices remain at Phase I levels.
However, the Moldovan government's crisis centre reported on 4 January that coal reserves for the power station would only last until the end of January, after which Transnistria would be left without electricity.
Cost-push inflation can also result from a rise in expected inflation, which in turn the workers will demand higher wages, thus causing inflation.
Currently delivery lorries mostly have second smaller diesel engines to power cooling when the main engine is off.
It has promoted actively professors John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt's book The Israel Lobby and U.S.
They plan to accomplish this by "inspiring, encouraging, supporting, networking and training individuals and their communities as they consider, adopt, adapt, and implement the transition approach to community empowerment and change".
On a week when oil fell the most since 2014, Russia rejected plans by OPEC and others to help calm the oil market, and Saudi Arabia was expected to increase production.
With the exception of the Dodge Viper and Plymouth Prowler, the 1989 M-platform vehicles were the last rear-wheel drive Chrysler cars produced until the 2005 introduction of the LX platform.
Other oil-consuming nations In response to the high oil prices of the 1970s, industrial nations took steps to reduce their dependence on the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries (OPEC) oil.
Lewis states that they also offered testimony to congress and criticized Israel's congressional and organizational supporters, sought to pass pro-Palestinian resolutions in state and national party platforms; offering pro-Palestinian testimony before Congress and attempted to sue Israel in U.S.
Thus, furthering the spread of the transition movement while networking related organizations, projects, ideas and activities.
References External links The novella: The Magic Goes Away title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database The series: The Magic Goes Away series listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
The average daily dietary energy consumption of Cuban citizens during the periods of 1990–92 and 1995–97 were 2,720 and 2,440 kcal/person/day respectively.
During its brief period of operation, which ended on 30 June 1929, S-1 produced a total of 5,320 barrels of oil.
Analysis of 22 trace elements in oils correlate significantly better with chondrite, serpentinized fertile mantle peridotite, and the primitive mantle than with oceanic or continental crust, and shows no correlation with seawater.
Supplies of electricity in Guangdong province, the manufacturing hub of China, are predicted to fall short by an estimated 10 GW.
On 10 January, authorities again ordered schools and government offices closed in roughly one-third of the country’s provinces as several power plants remained shut for lack of fuel.
He told an interviewer for The Atlantic in 2007, "When I think of Baby Boomers, I think of my mother's generation.
The revenues from sales authorized under section 403 will be deposited into the general fund of the U.S.
Players who ordered Frontlines from online retailer Amazon.com were given a limited-edition collector's tin.
For the most part, proven reserves are stated by the oil companies, the producer states and the consumer states.
Lack of fertilizer and agricultural machinery caused a shift towards organic farming and urban farming.
Public Interest Group, met with the Task Force (although not with Vice President Cheney personally).
Origins The National Association of Arab-Americans (NAAA), founded in 1972, was a political advocacy group whose goals were "to strengthen U.S.
Green recovery initiatives are supported by the United Nations (UN) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
The enchantment eventually consumes all of the mana in the vicinity, which causes a localized failure in all magic.
On 30 July 1979, the government introduced carless days, where private motorists had to choose one day of the week, on which they could not drive their motor vehicle.
Taxi drivers reported long petrol queues in Clarence Place, Corporation Road and parts of Maindee in Newport.
In January 2023, a report by BP predicted that the world will sharply reduce its reliance on oil and gas, over the next 25 years.
Beyond a certain income level, emissions per capita decrease as GDP per capita increases, thus generating a U-shaped relationship between GDP per capita and pollution.
The smallest model of the Mustang ever, the 1974 Mustang II was 6 inches shorter than the 1964½ debut version.
Rasau is part of an 11-kilometre road connecting Sungai Teraban and Sungai Tujoh, which facilitates easier travel between Brunei and Sarawak's Miri Division, including Miri and surrounding areas.
Part III – discusses the gap between the center of the World System and the developing world as it existed then, with a focus on village culture and unemployment in India.
A large proportion of the developed world's population live in suburbs, a type of low-density settlement designed with the automobile in mind.
Carbonate decomposition Calcium carbonate may decompose at around 500 °C (932 °F) through the following reaction: Reaction 5: Hydrogen + calcium carbonate → methane + calcium oxide + water 4 H2 + CaCO3 → CH4 + CaO + 2 H2O Note that CaO (lime) is not a mineral species found within natural rocks.
The controversial Corn Laws were a protectionist two-sided measure of subsidies on corn exports and tariffs on corn imports.
Most of the carbon dioxide is removed so the gas can meet the specifications of the onshore pipelines and end users.
The South African Government has said that there was no shortage of fuel in the country, but prices have increased and some petrol stations have introduced their own rationing of diesel.
On January 26, 2008, Dushanbe cut power to places of entertainment (including restaurants, shops, pharmacies, markets, and public bathhouses), causing many to close until spring.
Unconventional reservoirs, in contrast, are regionally dispersed over large areas with no indicative trap geometry that can be used for predictive purposes.
However, the government also pointed out that remedies are on the works, and that Argentina is better prepared than in 2004 to face problems with energy generation.
History From Kinsale to Totnes In 2004, permaculture designer Rob Hopkins set his students at Kinsale Further Education College the task of applying permaculture principles to the concept of peak oil.
In April 2008, Pradeep Mitra, World Bank chief economist for Europe and Central Asia, issued an uncharacteristic statement, urging the worse-hit countries to spend more on social assistance and "top up" their social programs.
Criticism Environmental economists and critics of globalized capitalism take issue with this theory for a number of reasons.
Uzbekistan Beginning in late December 2007, the unusually harsh weather had frozen the gas supply to numerous homes and businesses across Uzbekistan.
Stephen Sorrell, senior lecturer Science and Technology Policy Research, Sussex Energy Group, and lead author of the UKERC Global Oil Depletion report, and Christophe McGlade, doctoral researcher at the UCL Energy Institute have criticized Maugeri's assumptions about decline rates.
With a small 17" x 22" hex grid map and only 80 counters, the game has been characterized as "not complex".
The Americans shoot down many of them, but as one missile after another finds its way through the ships' air defenses, the fleet is devastated: most of the ships, including the aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan, are either sunk or disabled.
Critics of the steady-state economy usually object to it by arguing that resource decoupling, technological development, and the operation of market mechanisms are capable of overcoming resource scarcity, pollution, or population overshoot.
These state sites, under the umbrella of a national Ning site, were set up to help facilitate, network, inform, monitor, and house regional and organizational transition initiatives.
Analog-only techniques are called yet-to-find (YTF), and involve identifying areas containing producing assets that are geologically similar to those being estimated and substituting data to match what is known about a segment.
New York City television and FM radio stations that transmit from the Empire State Building were off the air.
Petrochemical and energy related projects figured prominently, designed to utilise New Zealand's abundant natural gas to produce ammonia, urea fertiliser, methanol and petrol.
The system's total investments were about $589 million; the decision would affect $502,000 of direct investments in coal, which amounts to about 30% of the system's total ($1.7 million exposure to coal, including both direct and indirect investments).
The Petrol Retailers Association, whose membership represents more than 5,500 petrol stations, said that it knew nothing about any form of planned government contingency plans and was advising members to keep fuel levels high.
Some argue that overconsumption enables the existence of an "overclass", while others disagree with the role of overconsumption in class inequality.
Upon awakening, he finds himself at the mercy of Antonio Malochio, Jade's killer and the mastermind behind the plan.
The government's communication with industry and customers was "sporadic at best", and it should have declared a state of emergency to control gas distribution, rather than leaving distribution to market forces and a bulletin board system.
The trade war with China caused concerns, though possible actions by Trump helped slightly on May 24.
Numerous highways and streets experienced blackouts, including a 24-hour power outage on the critical Haraz road, which connects Tehran to northern cities.
The story explores a society completely brought down, within the span of one week, because of dependency on a single energy source and a state of prosperity tainted by compromise and deceit.
Mighty Gin Rei (鉄腕銀鈴, Tetsuwan GinRei), released between volumes 5 and 6 of Giant Robo, is a send up of super robot series and features Ken Ishikawa as guest mech designer.
West Germany West Germany, Europe's largest economy at the time, had the largest post-war GDP fall in 1975.
Industrial gas provider BOC reduced its supply of carbon dioxide to pubs for draft beer, whilst the shortage also threatened WA's wineries, who use carbon dioxide for bottling.
Although swift continued growth in China is often predicted, others predict that China's export-dominated economy will not continue such growth trends due to wage and price inflation and reduced demand from the US.
Horst Brandstätter, the owner of the company, asked Beck to develop toy figures for children instead.
Several Middle Eastern countries eventually limited their oil shipments, some embargoing only the United States and the United Kingdom, while others placed a total ban on oil exports.
Most olivines also contain high nickel concentrations (up to several percent) and may also contain chromite or chromium as a contaminant in olivine, providing the needed transition metals.
Production Non-OPEC During the 1980s, reliance on Middle East production dwindled as commercial exploration developed major non-OPEC oilfields in Siberia, Alaska, the North Sea, and the Gulf of Mexico, and the Soviet Union became the world's largest producer of oil.
Activists and politicians, particularly younger people, demanded a "Green New Deal" in the US, a Green Industrial Revolution in the UK, and to end the use of fossil fuels in transport, energy generation, agriculture, buildings, and finance.
However, in an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Daniel Yergin, previously known for his quotes that the price of oil would soon return down to "normal", amended the company's position on 7 May 2008 to predict that oil would reach $150 during 2008, due to tightness of supply.
The EGDP-01 platform was put in the field and the gases would then be carried by pipelines to the Brunei LNG plant, via South West Ampa gas field.
This idea is supported by economist Robert Solow who claimed that four-fifths of US economic growth could be attributed to technological development (the other fifth being accounted for by expansion of labor and capital).
Availability of cheap, but hard to transport, natural gas in some oil fields has led to using natural gas to fuel enhanced oil recovery.
Seattle University (Seattle, Washington, US) – in September 2018, following student group pressure Seattle University is the first university in Washington state to divest its endowment of fossil fuels over the next five years.
Sandra Johnston had fled to Bali after the seizure of Johnston's passports, concerned at her own potential liability due to her position as a company director between 2005 and 2008.
History Initiation of the inflationary cycle is traced to Anthony Barber's 1972 budget which was designed to return the Conservatives to power in an election expected in 1974 or 1975.
Overlapping environmental, social, and economic forces such as the 1973 energy crisis and popularisation of the concept of globalisation helped bring Schumacher's Small Is Beautiful critiques of mainstream economics to a wider audience during the 1970s.
In 1998, the acquisition of new high-resolution 3D seismic data over the shallow marine surf zone led to the identification of several undrilled blocks on the north flank of the Seria anticline.
Nevertheless, the embargo lasted only until January 1974, though the price of oil remained high afterwards.
Coal-fired power plants are particularly detrimental, emitting toxic substances that adversely affect human health.
As Jonesers reached adulthood, the United States military draft and involvement in the Vietnam War had ended; thus, they had no defining political cause, as opposition to the war was for the older Boomers.
At the time of the invasion, Iraq owed Kuwait $14 billion of outstanding debt that Kuwait had loaned it during the 1980–1988 Iran–Iraq War.
The disconnection led to a disturbance in the national power system, resulting in a nearly nationwide power shutdown, as other power stations failed repeatedly when attempting to come back online.
As a result, there had been numerous demonstrations and protests against the government, in favor of an insured uninterrupted supply of gas and electricity.
The extracted helium is stored underground in the National Helium Reserve near Amarillo, Texas, the self-proclaimed "Helium Capital of the World".
The Oil Embargo did not significantly decrease the amount of oil available in the United States or any affected European countries, due mainly to a lack of solidarity and uniformity in embargoing specific countries.
Pavel Sorokin from the Russian Ministry of Energy doubted that the cuts would work with stating following quotes: "We cannot fight a falling demand situation when there is no clarity about where the bottom is." "It is very easy to get caught in a circle when, by cutting once, you get into an even...
Currently, decline curve analysis software on PC computers is used to plot production decline curves for petroleum economics analysis.
Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is charged on "super-profits" arising from the exploitation of oil and gas in the UK and the UK's continental shelf.
For the first week of December, Brent fell 2.5 percent to $71.12 and WTI was down just over 1 percent to $67.20.
Yergin believes that world oil production will continue to rise until "perhaps sometime around mid-century" and then "plateau" or enter a gradual decline.
Playmobil toys are produced in themed series of sets as well as individual special figures and playsets.
Akins, who audited US capacity for Nixon after US peak, was US ambassador in Saudi Arabia at that time.
Transportation Communities are encouraged by The Transition Network to seek out methods for reducing energy usage as well as reducing their reliance on long supply chains that are totally dependent on fossil fuels for essential items (see environmental calculator).
Matthias Schmale, the UN's resident and humanitarian coordinator in Ukraine, stated in mid-November 2024 that Russian forces had destroyed approximately 65% of Ukraine's energy production capacity, creating what he estimated would likely be the most difficult winter period of conflict so far.
This is an example of mainstream media attention the movement received a few years after being founded.
That day, the Department of Budget and Management also approved the release of ₱20 billion (US$406.09 million) from the Malampaya gas fund to the DOE to secure fuel supply and stabilize availability amid global disruptions.
It has been noted that the Obama Administration has made the largest investment in the American history to have clean energy through renewable power generation.
Traffic-reducing policies such as the "pedestrianisation" of city centres, traffic calming, parking control, congestion charging.
Several notable key note speakers have visited DUG conferences including Leon Panetta at Pittsburgh's in 2014, T.
Reserves less than 90% recoverable but more than 50% are considered "probable reserves" and below 50% are "possible reserves".
The Minister of Electric Power and president of the National Electric Corporation (Corpoelec) threatened with the maximum penalty (25 to 30 years in prison) those who commit acts of sabotage.
The gap between Ted Heath's Tory government and the Labour opposition led by Harold Wilson, who had been prime minister for nearly six years until his surprise defeat by Heath's Tories in the 1970 election, was so narrow that the Tories received the most votes, but Labour won slightly more seats.
This opinion has been met with criticism by those who believe a peak has already occurred or is imminent.
They contend that implementing these alternatives could undermine the capitalist model of resource hoarding and distribution, leading to conspiracy theories regarding the suppression of free energy technologies.
On 27 September 1982, Muldoon introduced 'The Wage Freeze Regulations' that would freeze wages and prices on a national scale until 22 June 1983.
The government response was varied, and in Karakalpakstan, they met protesters and promised to rectify the situation, while the local government head of Hazarasp responded to a complaint by one woman by cutting off gas altogether to all the houses on her street.
reported negative economic growth during the 1970s and remained weak till the 1980s as the post World War II economic boom drew to a close.
As the cost of moving human workers continues to rise, while the cost of moving information electronically continues to fall, presumably market forces should cause more people to substitute virtual travel for physical travel.
Infrastructure The Rasau Bridge, which spans the Belait River, provides a direct route from Brunei to the Sungai Tujoh Immigration Checkpoint, eliminating the need for the often frustrating ferry service.
By 2016, several papers have cast doubt on the peak car phenomenon, demonstrating that economic and sociodemographic factors account for most or all of the observed slowdowns.
The larger dock had been towed to Kuala Belait three years earlier and was the first facility of its kind in Brunei, Sabah, or Sarawak.
In the long term, the theory implies faith that technological progress will allow backstop resources to be essentially unlimited (see also Cornucopian), and that need will cause the development of new technologies to become cost effective.
As oil prices spiked following the 1979 energy crisis, Canada began significant production of oil derived from tar sands, also known as bitumen.
Although reluctant, Groove proves himself a talented driver and a capable fighter, quickly picking up on the necessary skills to survive in battle.
Real-world examples Several real-world nations exhibit the characteristics of the Export Land Model as pictured in the image gallery above.
Synopsis Small Is Beautiful is divided into four parts: "The Modern World", "Resources", "The Third World", and "Organization and Ownership".
Computer Gaming World gave The Interstate '76 Arsenal 4 out of 5, Game Revolution gave it B+, and GameSpot gave it 7.6 out 10.
The Santiago Metro suspended all subway services throughout the capital, while Arturo Merino Benítez International Airport activated emergency power systems to maintain essential operations.
Qatari reserve categories With the publication of the 2020 corporate bond prospectus Qatar Energy introduced the term Confirmed Reserves for its North Field gas reserves.
Mexico proposed to cut its oil production by 100,000 bpd for two months, from 1.781 mbd to 1.681 mbd.
List of failures See also Dam failure List of power outages Hydraulic engineering Hydroelectricity List of significant thermal power station failures Operation Chastise Malpasset Dam St.
The WTI delivery price difference between months resulted in unusually high contango; purchasing cheap physical oil to storage for later sale.
Syria stopped all oil exports, rather than just embargoing specific countries, in order to avoid declaring specific nations as aggressors.
The 2006 Russia–Georgia energy crisis describes an international incident triggered by two explosions on the Mozdok–Tbilisi natural gas pipeline in North Ossetia on January 22, 2006.
In 2005, Duncan further extended the data set of his theory to 2003 in the article "The Olduvai Theory: Energy, Population, and Industrial Civilization." Description The Olduvai theory is a model that primarily draws from the peak oil theory and the per capita energy yield of oil.
A graphically enhanced version of the original game, Interstate '76: Gold Edition, was also released.
New Zealand would abandon the manufacturing of synthetic petrol in February 1997, allowing the plant to switch the focus to methanol..
Operated by Brunei Shell Petroleum (BSP), the Rasau Production Station is located within the area and is connected by pipelines to tank farms in Seria via Mumong, and to the Seria refinery through Kuala Belait.
In The Magic Goes Away, the widespread diminishing of magical power triggers a quest on the part of the most powerful of the magicians of the time to harness a new source of magic, the Moon.
The company was founded in 1983 by Pulitzer Prize winning author Daniel Yergin, James Rosenfield and Joseph Stanislaw.
A sacred fire is usually kept separate from any cooking fire, and may be placed in or near a ceremonial enclosure.
(3 October 1913 – 21 June 1998), Archbishop of Turin, declared as a Servant of God in 2014 Paul Zoungrana, M.Afr.
The term is sometimes used to refer to a person who guides people through religious sites, such as churches, and explains the various artifacts.
The name "Rishi" (pronounced "ruesi") is also the basis of one of the letters of the Thai alphabet, so reu-si (Thai: ษ ฤๅษี).
The ceremony is often very draining for the yuwipi man because of the focus needed to interact with the spirits and because the spirits use his life energy to heal the participants.
It is used in Hindustani classical music to recognize master performers for classical singing and other performing arts, like classical dance.
Their rituals often involve "martial" elements, such as the use of the sundang (wavy-edged machete) in trance dances to ward off rival sorcerers or malevolent spirits.
This is true of man in general and the [Vedic] Keśin in particular, but the latter has mastered and transformed these contrary forces and is a visible embodiment of accomplished spirituality.
The Vidhana which he wrote helped simplify the rites and rituals written in the Shrauta and Gruhya shastras (scriptures).
The structure of Russian- and south-eastern European muftiates were never prescribed by Islamic doctrine, but instead are based on the principle of an all-encompassing legal and administrative order in parallel fashion to Christian dioceses with the purpose of regulating the Islamic religion.
Gossain, Gosain, Gosine, Gosyne, Gosein, or Gossai is a Hindi word derived from Sanskrit: गोस्वामी, romanized: gōsvāmī, lit.
These can be treated by skilled shamans, but were more often relegated to apprentices or assistants specializing in healing or herbalism.
Pastoral care occurs in various contexts, including congregations, hospital chaplaincy, prison chaplaincy, psychiatry, crisis intervention, telephone helplines, counseling centers, senior care facilities, disability work, hospices, end-of-life care, grief support, and more.
See also Glossary of Islam Imam Marabout Mawlawi Mullah Marja Sheikh Rumi, Persian poet also known as Mawlana == References ==
The Museum of Army Chaplaincy holds archive material and information relating to the history of the Chaplains General to the British Army both past and present.
In the past before matches and easy ways of making fire under wet conditions, it was necessary for someone to always be present to keep the flames or red coals burning for long periods of time.
A medicine man or medicine woman is a traditional healer and spiritual leader who serves a community of Indigenous people of the Americas.
Mandaeism In Mandaeism, novices who are being initiated into the Mandaean priesthood are called šualia (Classical Mandaic: ࡔࡅࡀࡋࡉࡀ).
Thailand In Thailand, a country which never had a tradition of fully ordained nuns (bhikkhuni), there developed a separate order of non-ordained female renunciates called mae chi.
The Hebrew Bible (or Old Testament) uses the Hebrew word רעה (roʿeh), which is used as a noun as in 'shepherd', and as a verb as in 'to tend a flock'.
See also Archipheracite, another past title in synagogues References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; et al., eds.
Though they manage the paperwork and office (called the "chancery"), they have no actual jurisdictional authority: the bishop of the diocese exercises decision-making authority through his judicial vicar, in judicial matters, and the vicar general for administrative matters.
Before the office was dissolved, it has been criticised from opposition groups who viewed the mufti's alignment with the government as compromising religious independence.
Full text collections of Reform responsa are available on the website of the Central Conference of American Rabbis.
In the 19th century, the Austrian Habsburgs and Russians expanded into southeastern Europe, carving territory out of the Ottoman Empire and helping establish newly independent countries.
Their purpose is to offer religious church services, counseling, and moral support to the armed forces, whether in peacetime or at war.
Examples are Nagarjuna [Skt.]: Na ga’i dzu na/Klu sgrub; Aryadeva (Karnaripa) [Skt.]: Ka na ri pa/’Phags pa lha; and Ghantapa [Skt.]: Ghanda pa/rDo rje dril bu pa, to name a few.
Twelver and Ismaili Shi'a believe that these imams are chosen by God to be perfect examples for the faithful and to lead all humanity in all aspects of life.
When the monks fled to their monastery in Kells, following the 9th-century Viking raids on Iona, their abbot continued to hold the title of coarb to reflect his direct inheritance: many of the early abbots were members of Columba's family.
Eastern Orthodoxy In the Eastern Orthodox Church, a candidate may be clothed as a novice (Slavonic: послушник, poslushnik, literally "one under obedience") by the hegumen (abbot) or hegumenia (abbess) after at least three days in the monastery.
The Ottoman Empire had a similar territorial division called a kadiluk, which was more concerned with justice and taxation than religion.
Ancient Rome There were four chief colleges of priests in ancient Rome, the most illustrious of which was that of the pontifices.
Concordance lists For the identification of individual mahasiddhas the concordance lists published by Ulrich von Schroeder are useful tools for every scholar.
Buddhism All Buddhist traditions have nuns, although their status is different among Buddhist countries.
Capable men who would lead well were preferred over an ineffectual direct heir, as there was no basis in the majority Sunni view that the head of state or governor should be chosen based on lineage alone.
In Burmese Buddhism, several honorific terms exist for Buddhist monks, reflecting their achievements and how many vassas they have passed.
Chökyi Nyinche According to Fabrice Midal, the tenth Trungpa tulku rejected his role as fundraiser for the Surmang monasteries and preferred to live as a disciplined meditation practitioner.
The Mahābhārata list explicitly refers to the saptarshis of the first manvantara and not to those of the present manvantara.
Yuwipi Ceremony Spirits The spirits called upon vary with individual medicine men, as well with the goals of the ceremony.
Researchers have further categorized contemporary miko in terms of their diverse traditions and practices.
James Mooney's writings concerning the Ani-Kutani From the writings of James Mooney, Myths of the Cherokee, section 108 "The Massacre of the Ani'-Kuta'ni.
The term qäsis (Ge'ez: ቀሲስ, Amharic: ቄስ qes; Tigrinya: ቀሺ qäši), which refers to married priest in the Ethiopian and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Churches, is a synonym for kahen, an unmarried priest, among the Beta Israel.
At present, the most prominent among them is Ali al-Sistani; who also serves as the head of the Hawza of Najaf.
The rosh yeshiva is required to have a comprehensive knowledge of the Talmud and the ability to analyse and present new perspectives, called chidushim (novellae) verbally and often in print.
God's Wife of Amun – the highest-ranking priestess of the Amun cult Ancient Israel The High Priest of Israel served in the Tabernacle, then in Solomon's Temple and the Second Temple in Jerusalem.
Temple boys may undertake the formal step of sāmaṇera ordination as part of their role, depending on their age and local custom.
surrogare, to substitute for), is the deputy of a bishop or an ecclesiastical judge, acting in the absence of his principal and strictly bound by the authority of the latter.
Most congregations or places of worship have a strict vetting process for their youth ministers, including but not limited to background checks, educational requirements and previous relevant experience.
In Iran, until the early 20th century, the term mullah was used in Iranian seminaries to refer to low-level clergy who specialized in telling stories of Ashura, rather than teaching or issuing fatwas.
The temple of Ourania, which was one dedicated to Aphrodite, was the place in which Aphrodite would be intimate with her sacred prostitutes.
By the constitution Inter cetera of 20 January 1521, Pope Leo X appointed a rule for tertiaries with simple vows.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Tarachand K.C., Devadasi Custom – Rural Social Structure and Flesh Markets, New Delhi: Reliance Publishing House, 1992.
Swami ([sʋaːmiː]; Sanskrit: स्वामी, romanized: svāmī; sometimes abbreviated sw.) in Hinduism is an honorific title given to an ascetic who has chosen the path of renunciation (sanyāsa).
The Asvalayana sutra indicates that a non-dvija child may also be inducted into the Dvija category, if he wishes to pursue the duties associated with these varnas.
The Society of Jesus is an example of an institute that obtained recognition as a religious order with solemn vows, although the members were divided into the professed with solemn vows (a minority) and the "coadjutors" with simple vows.
Brothers share equal status and rights with seminarians and priests in their communities with the exception that canon law currently requires that mixed communities elect an ordained minister as provincial; however, some dispensations to this rule have been granted.
Today kohanim retain a lesser though somewhat distinct status within Judaism, and are bound by additional restrictions according to Orthodox Judaism.
After the death of Ibn Baz in 1999, King Fahd appointed Abdulaziz Al-Sheikh, a member of the Al-Sheikh family, who served as Grand Mufti from 1999 until his death on 23 September 2025.
By the eve of World War I, the Ottoman state, despite its weakness relative to Europe, represented the largest and most powerful independent Islamic political entity.
Orthodoxy The priesthood obligations of Orthodox clergymen are outlined by John Chrysostom (347–407) in his treatise On the Priesthood (De Sacerdotio).
Initiations or ritual empowerments are necessary before the student is permitted to practice a particular tantra, in Vajrayana Buddhist sects found in Tibet and South Asia.
After the dissolution the Ottoman Empire the office of the Grand Mufti has been adopted in a number of countries across the Muslim world, often serving the role of providing religious support for government policies.
Also in the 1930s, the minister Norman Vincent Peale and the psychiatrist Smiley Blanton collaborated to form the American Foundation of Religion and Psychiatry, now known as the Blanton-Peale Institute.
In Sikhism, the scripture Adi Granth is considered to be last Guru hence the book is worshiped as like human Guru.
In 1963, the American Association of Pastoral Counselors was founded to provide professional certification for pastoral counselors and pastoral counseling centers.
He later went on to chair the Hurd Commission which produced a review of the roles and functions of the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Joachim Herrmann and Evamaria Engel, on the other hand, recognized that priests influenced political decisions with the help of oracles and their authority.
It literally means "precious one", and may refer to a person, place, or thing—like the words "gem" or "jewel" (Sanskrit: Ratna).
The Upanishads assert that one's birth does not determine one's eligibility for spiritual knowledge, only one's effort and sincerity matters.
The word is a combination of Sanskrit word "acharya" (teacher) and the Burmese honorific "taw," which is used to denote nouns of religious or royal significance.
Latin Church In the Roman rite, the senior Cardinal Deacon is the Cardinal Protodeacon of the Holy Roman Church.
Unlike many other Islamic leadership positions, the Aga Khan's authority combines religious interpretation with significant involvement in education, healthcare, cultural preservation, and economic development.
Itako perform the ceremony using Tsugaru dialect, and a series of "taboo words" that are not understood by all native Japanese speakers.
Buddhism Christianity Eastern Orthodox The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Protestantism Note: due to the wide variety of Protestant practices there is not a standard form of address.
1305) was followed first by a Duoerjibale (Dorje Pal) in 1305–13, and then Sangjiayizhashi (Sanggye Tashi) in 1313–14.
About 1000 years after the era of Solomon and David, another widely known intervention occurred known as "The spiritual intervention of Hanina ben Dosa and Rabbi Abaye" which ended up curbing her malevolent powers over humans.
Traditional training The position of a shaman passed from generation to generation, but sometimes someone not directly descended from a shaman went voluntarily into training or was appointed by the village chieftains.
See also Akhund Abdul Ghaffur Clericalism in Iran Turban knocking Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists Kyai, similar term in Indonesia Ulama Seghatoleslam References Further reading Gibb, H.
An archipheracite was a minister of Jewish synagogues, who were charged with reading and interpreting the perakim (chapters), where the titles and chapters of the law and the prophets are found.
According to Jianping Wang, "In the Sufi doctrine found in E[ast] Turkestan, the ishan has a serene nature, acting as an intermediary between Muslims and Allah.
References Sources "Descriptio Lapponiae", Nicolaus Lundius Lappo (1905) Suomen sanojen alkuperä, Finnish Literature Society (2000)
Gonagas possessed a special level of spiritual knowledge and claimed to have the ability to transform into a bird figure to "fly" over mountains.
Greek muftiates Office of the Grand Mufti of India (Barelvism) Office of the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Kazakh muftiates Kosovar muftiates Kyrgyz muftiates Lithuanian muftiates Macedonian muftiates Malaysia Malaysia has a unique system of collective mufti.
Although Reform stresses the individual autonomy of its membership, it never completely abandoned the field of responsa literature, if only to counter its rivals' demands.
Conversely, some fundamentalist Protestants (including Alexander Hislop and Charles Chiniquy) have used the term to refer to the papacy and the members of the Roman Curia.
Notable shaykha include the 10th-century Shaykhah Fakhr-un-Nisa Shuhdah and 18th-century scholar Al-Shaykha Fatima al-Fudayliyya.
A Drumkeeper is a common name for someone in an Indigenous community who has inherited a traditional sacred drum and the right to play it in ceremony, or been instructed by their Elders in how to make and play one in order to fulfill this role.
In the Indian subcontinent, the word mantrik & similar names are synonymous with magician in different languages.
Chaplains do not hold a standard military rank, and are usually addressed as Padre, Reverend, or, more informally, Bish.
The hogon may conduct rituals in the Sanctuaire de Binou, a special building the door of which is blocked with rocks.
Sometimes these mystagogical instructions were not given until after the catechumen had been baptized.
Traditionally, they were thought to be able to manipulate fate on their or their followers' behalf and they could grant miracles or inflict divine punishment on people in the afterlife or the mortal world.
Early Native American tribes around the Great Lakes region, taught that the mystagogue was a spiritual leader, and upon death would transform into a beast with many heads.
The term is widely used in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India, and is also used for a man who has higher education in Islamic theology and sharia law.
Pliny reports that Mark Antony's soldiers smashed an enormous statue of the divinity made of solid gold and then divided the pieces amongst themselves.
Education To become a Shinto priest, a novice must study at a university approved by the Association of Shinto Shrines, typically Tokyo's Kokugakuin University or Ise's Kogakkan University, or pass an exam that will certify their qualifications.
The erenagh originally had a tonsure but took no other holy orders; he had a voice in the Chapter when they consulted about revenues, paid a yearly rent to the Bishop and a fine on the marriage of each daughter.
History Tenure of Montazeri (1985–1989) The Assembly of Experts elected Hussein-Ali Montazeri, one of Khomeini's students, to this position on 15 July 1985.
In Cameron’s opinion there is no distinction between the men’s wise sayings and that of Amma Sarah and Amma Syncletia.
The process of recognition must also be taken into account: it is probable that the wu was chosen or acknowledged as such according to different criteria to those adopted for the king.
Soviet-era muftiates Ukrainian muftiates Uzbek muftiates See also Muftiate Grand Mufti Mufti == References ==
Shaunaka (Sanskrit: शौनक, IAST: śaunaka) is the name applied to teachers, and to a Shakha of the Atharvaveda.
Mashgichim play social as well as technical roles in explaining kosher rules to the Jewish and non-Jewish community and forging close relationships with employees and customers.
Function At the beginning chaplain and Caudatario of a cardinal were two distinct figures, but then they merged into one.
Himmat Singh, one of the original Panj Piare of Sikhism was believed to be his reincarnation (avtar).
In Afghanistan, and among the Pashtuns of the Afghan-Pakistan border region, the term is still current in its original sense as an honorific.
History The earliest organization of the Church in Jerusalem was according to most scholars similar to that of Jewish synagogues, but it had a council or college of ordained presbyters (Greek: πρεσβύτεροι elders).
Most recently, the Gyalwang Drukpa visited the CERN in Switzerland with several of his kung fu nuns to discuss the seeming tension of religion and science in society, as well as the improvement of gender equality.
Abba Saul ben Batnit, in his attack against the priestly house of Ishmael ben Fabus, said: "They themselves are high priests, and their sons gizbarim, and their sons-in-law amarkolim".
Seven Inanimate Jewels (Eka-indriya) Chakra-ratna: A miraculous diamond-serrated discus that never misses its target; it precedes the monarch’s army during his world-conquering expedition (digvijaya).
See also Christianity in the United States#Youth programs Sunday school Youth program References External links OhMyBible – Free interactive Bible study app with interactive chapters, contextual notes, multi-voice video Bible, and guided prayer talks.
At the national level, a Fatwa Committee of the National Council for Islamic Religious Affairs (Majlis Fatwa Kebangsaan) has been formed under the Department of Islamic Advancement of Malaysia (Jabatan Kemajuan Islam Malaysia or JAKIM).
Ifá is a divination system that represents the teachings of the òrìṣà Ọrunmila, the òrìṣà of wisdom, who in turn serves as the oracular representative of Olodumare.
Derived from the root "yat," meaning "to strive" or "to make an effort," Yati traditionally refers to one who is disciplined, dedicated, and often associated with ascetics or sages (tapasvis) who have renounced worldly attachments in pursuit of higher spiritual goals.
[it is] an opportunity to serve." The church uses a lay clergy, with most members receiving no compensation for the execution of their callings.
Swedish priests supported conviction of noaidis for sorcery, and in 1693, Lars Nilsson was executed for this charge.
A rajarshi still performs the duties of their kshatriya class, and remain similar to most rishis, maharishis, and brahmarishis descendants in their level of spiritual knowledge.
Bhagat is a term used in the Indian subcontinent to describe religious figures who have obtained high acclaim in their communities for their acts and devotion.
They stated that paying chaplains to conduct prayer services was an unconstitutional act of governmental support for a religion.
Catholic young people Unlike the case in some Protestant churches, a youth minister in the Roman Catholic Church is not a member of the clergy.
External links The 84 Indian Adepts of Abhayadatta System Mahasiddha: Buddhist Tantric Teachers of India
Nine of the fourteen Malaysian states have their own sultan; each of these nine states have their own mufti who usually controls the Islamic Council or Islamic Department of the state.
One of the best orators of Bangladesh, Maulana Delwar Hossain Sayeedi, is addressed as Allama Sayeedi.
The novice master's duty is to see that the time devoted to the period of the novitiate be passed in prayer, meditation, and the development of character through a study of the life of Jesus Christ and the saints, church history, the vows and the constitution of the institute.
They also often teach in Islamic schools known in Iran as hawzas and in other countries as madrasas.
In some orders, like the Benedictines, a monastery remains a priory until it is considered stable enough and large enough to be elevated to the rank of an abbey.
Lay brothers were originally created to allow those who were skilled in particular crafts or did not have the required education to study for holy orders to participate in and contribute to the life of a religious order.
After the Reformation and the Dissolution of the Monasteries the role of erenagh became subsumed in the responsibilities of the parson in each parish.
See also Maggid Moshe ha-Darshan References Further reading Marc Saperstein (1992), Jewish Preaching, 1200-1800: An Anthology, yale university press.
History See also Pandit Purohit Yogi Bairagi References External links Media related to Pujari at Wikimedia Commons
A muhtasibat is an Islamic territorial division overseen by a muhtasib and is directly subordinate to a qadi and qadiyat.
During the Avignon Papacy, the use of a caudatario spread among the minor prelates, such as the archbishops and bishops.
When she was twenty, she and her husband Pinianus renounced the world, both founding convents and monasteries.
These ceremonial drums can include water drums, hand drums, and larger drums used during ceremonies such as Sun Dances and sweatlodges.
Psychological aspects of relationship The relation of Guru and Shishya is equated with that of a child in the womb of mother.
Some believe that remainder, or even all, of the claims of martyred apostles do not rely upon historical or biblical evidence, but only on late legends.
Titles used only by Shia Muslims Ayatollah Ayatollah (Arabic: آية الله; Persian: آیت‌الله) is a prestigious title given to major Shia clergymen.
Kamehameha I had earlier believed that Christianity may bring mana or heavenly power to revitalise the Hawaiian community.
Lay brothers were distinguished from choir monks or friars in that they did not pray in choir, and from clerics, in that they did not prepare for holy orders.
Some officiants work within congregations in some denominations and for specified ceremonies (e.g., funerals) as non-ordained members on the clergy team.
The archipheracite was not the same as the archisynagogus, as Grotius and other have mistakenly believed, but rather the chief or principal of these appointed to read, explain, and profess the law in their schools.
History Canon 128 of the 1603 canons of the Church of England lays down the qualifications necessary for the office of surrogate, and canon 123 specifies the regulations for appointment to the office.
Implications Dvija, in medieval Indian texts, refers to a member of the first three varnas – Brahmins, Kshatriyas, and Vaishyas.
According to Guthrie, dunchees are the "heirs of an ancient form of female asceticism that was once accorded high status in Cambodia".
Hidden from the eyes of men, the life of the hermit is a silent preaching of the Lord, to whom he has surrendered his life simply because he is everything to him.
Female members of the mendicant orders (Dominican, Augustinian and Carmelite nuns and Poor Clares) continued to observe the same enclosed life as members of the monastic orders.
The Rule of St Benedict is followed by a variety of orders of monastics in the West, including the Order of Saint Benedict, Cistercians, Trappists, and Camaldolese, and is an important influence in Carthusian life.
Imperial Britain saw great possibilities in having under their control and patronage the head of a major Shia sect; it could even be used at some later stage to counterbalance the influence of the Ottoman Caliph, the head of Islam as recognized by the Sunni sects.
Once they returned from the journey, the angakkuq would question people involved in the situation, and, under the belief that they already knew who was responsible, the people being questioned would often confess.
Dispute over Marja al-taqlid al-mutlaq In the early 1990s, the leading marja', Abu al-Qasim al-Khoei, died and Ali Sistani, "emerged" as the marja al-mutlaq or highest Marja' in the world of Shia Islam.
The Unitarian & Free Christian Churches of Great Britain have Accredited Lay Preachers who take services including rites of passage.
The prevalence of these works in pop culture has influenced definitions in English dictionaries, such as Merriam-Webster, which not only defines kahuna as "a preeminent person or thing" but also offers "Hawaiian shaman" as a secondary definition.
A rigid class system emerged from this arrangement in which the clerics (priests and seminarians) exercised complete control over the lay brothers.
Notable Chaplains Since the American Civil War, seven Army chaplains and one chaplain assistant have been awarded the Medal of Honor.
James Mallinson, one of the few westerners to be named as a mahant, describes the position of a mahant as a combination of an abbot and a brigadier.
In Thailand, the terms luuk sit wat (ลูกศิษย์วัด) and dek wat (เด็กวัด), commonly rendered into English as "temple boy", are typically used.
In modern Philippine society, their roles have largely been taken over by folk healers, which are now predominantly male, while some are still being falsely accused as "witches".
From 1938 to 1972, Lichtenstein led the Society of Jewish Science, a Jewish spiritual movement originally led by Rabbi Alfred G.
Among other proofs, they cited another response from Isaac ben Sheshet himself ruling that a kohen who married a divorcee must cease his marriage, proving that Isaac ben Sheshet fundamentally upheld the legitimacy of the presumptive kohen.
The text describes the monk as a Jivanmukta, a liberated soul while alive, and Videhamukta is liberation in afterlife.
ISBN 978-0300052633 Marc Saperstein (2014), Your Voice Like a Ram's Horn: Themes and Texts in Traditional Jewish Preaching, Hebrew Union College Press.
Sound imitation may serve other purposes such as games and other entertainment as well as important practical purposes such as luring animals during hunts.
This may be evidence for the existence of sacred prostitution in Mesoamerica, or it may be either confusion, or accusational polemic.
A hegumen may carry his pastoral staff in processions and when giving blessings in the church (though it is never carried into the sanctuary), although it usually stands upright next to his kathisma (monastic choir stall).
Gallery Federal Republic of Germany German religious constitutional law and its state-church law is involved in the democratic national identity of modern Germany, especially in various articles of the German Constitution.
Addressing a crowd As part of the school of Rabbi Yismael's explanation, the Mitzvah includes sanctifying the Kohen with the first slot in delivering Torah instruction from amongst other Jews who are on the/a panel of speakers.
An ishan has leadership over his group, and can nominate his khalifa and hafiz as well as initiating maulid and buwi into the sub-order.
Religious Zionist and Modern Orthodox rabbinical students, such as those at the Hesder yeshivas and Yeshiva University, respectively, also formally study hashkafa (i.e., the major elements of Jewish philosophy and theology) and its application to contemporary questions.
Hinduism Other titles for the word Mahant, serving in the context of a well known religious place, include priest or pundit—generally always being a gyani or pastor.
The scholaster might be a dignitary in a cathedral or collegiate chapter, alongside the provost, dean, cantor, succentor, precentor, archdeacon, treasurer, cellarer, sacristan or almoner.
Depending on the size of the school and the status of the institution to which it was attached, the scholaster might be the only teacher, the head of a considerable educational establishment, or have oversight over all the schools in their city or territory.
12th century – 11th century BCE), who fished without a hook while waiting to be recognized by the ruler.
In many cases, the women that take to the life of renunciation are widows, and these types of sadhvis often live secluded lives in ascetic compounds.
They play a crucial role in preserving and transmitting the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism, particularly those related to tantric practices.
Non-Orthodox Judaism allows women to be mohalot (מוֹהֲלוֹת‎, plural of מוֹהֶלֶת‎, 'mohelet', feminine of mohel), without restriction.
A number of prominent Armenian Christian authors are grouped together under the name t’argmanich’ vardapetk’ 'translator vardapets': Mesrop Mashtots, Elishe, Movses Khorenatsi, David the Invincible, Gregory of Narek, Nerses the Gracious, John of Odzun, John of Orotan, and Gregory of Tatev.
{{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) External links List of All Digamber Jain Monks With detailed description Photo documentary of the Jain monks
Bangladesh In Bangladesh, in the government Aliyah Madrasa system, Maulvi/Moulvi is also associated with formal degrees for those who have passed the course of Maulvi (basic), Maulvi Aalim (intermediate) or Maulvi Fazil (advanced).
The word ultimately derives from a Germanic word for "king" (Compare to Finnish Kuningas and Lithuanian Kunigas, both from Proto-Germanic *Kuningaz; in archaic context the Finnish word simply had the meaning of "leader" or "high-ranked person" instead of monarch).
A scholaster, from the Latin scholasticus (schoolmaster), or magister scholarum, was the head of an ecclesiastical school, typically a cathedral school, monastic school, or the school of a collegiate church, in medieval and early-modern Europe.
From the Jerusalem Talmud, it further appears that in cases of necessity the archisynagogue of a community had to act as its reader.
The concept of Chakravartin may have developed by the time of the early Maurya kings, in the 4th to 3rd century BCE, such as Emperor Ashoka, and it is mentioned in the Arthashastra (formerly considered to be a Maurya-period text but now re-dated as later).
(1991), Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-504652-6 STRONGS NT 1481: ἐθνάρχης.
The historian Sarah Ansari wrote: In his newspaper, the Pir-jo-Goth Gazette, he (Pir of Pagaro) called for Hindu-Muslim unity: 'My forefathers', he wrote, 'treated Hindus and Muslims alike as a sacred trust.
Catholic Church norms for the consecrated eremitic and anchoritic life do not include corporal works of mercy.
Ndiaye, Ousmane Sémou, "Diversité et unicité sérères: l'exemple de la région de Thiès." Éthiopiques (1991).
Typically, general authorities are given the sealing power, while general officers and area seventies are not.
The Nenets rank their shamans by their spiritual attachment and function as well as their experience.
Although this is a fairly common occurrence, there are no hard and fast rules about such practices and each president is free to choose the counselors he prefers.
'a man of prayer'; and from the Anglo-Saxon bed), was generally a pensioner or almsman whose duty was to pray for his benefactor.
The pressure began in Oyotunji after Iyanifa Ifafunmike Osunbunmi was initiated in Osogbo, Nigeria, in 1995 by the Babalawo Ifayemi Elebuibon, the Araba of Osogbo.
A coarb, from the Old Irish comarbae (Modern Irish: comharba, Latin: hērēs), meaning "heir" or "successor", was a distinctive office of the medieval Celtic Church among the Gaels of Ireland and Scotland.
Bhaṭṭārakas, who head institutions, are technically junior monks, and thus permitted to stay in the same place.
Similar to an abbot visitor, the archimandrite would visit the monasteries under his charge to see that the monks were keeping a serious religious life, to draw attention to abuses, straighten out difficulties and give confidence and encouragement to all those who needed it.
See also Royal Army Chaplains' Department (RAChD) (U.K.) Royal Canadian Chaplain Service Chiefs of Chaplains of the United States International Military Chiefs of Chaplains Conference Military chaplain#Military chaplains by country References External links Crockford's Clerical Directory – Chapl Gen
He said that the temple of Aphrodite once had acquired more than a thousand prostitutes, donated by both men and women to the service of the Goddess.
Many mohalim continue the practice of listing the names and birthdates of the boys they circumcise in little booklets.
Slaves and persons who were blind or mute were likewise theoretically barred from the post of a judge, but not that of mufti.
If the male desert monastics are called "patres", why not apply its feminine equivalent "matres" to Sara, Syncetica and their followers, she wrote.
See also Archaeological field survey Excavation Shovel test pit Watching brief wikt:sondage == References ==
For example; Tapioca starch: 5-35 μm Potato starch: 15-100 μm Maize starch: 5-25 μm Rice starch: 3-8 μm but all are generally under 100 micrometres in size, and are, therefore, best observed under compound microscopes equipped with various lighting conditions and magnifications from x200 to x800.
Further reading Copeland, Lorraine., The early Upper Palaeolithic material from levels VII-V, Antelias Cave, Lebanon Berytus, 19, 99-143, 45, 1970.
Since that time, scientific results related to virtual archaeology were annually discussed, among others, at Computer Applications and Quantitative Methods in Archaeology (CAA).
Law of superposition In a series of layers and interfacial features, as originally created, the upper units of stratification are younger and the lower are older, for each must have been deposited on, or created by the removal of, a pre-existing mass of archaeological stratification.
Publications and Illustrations Twelve of his illustrations were used in Expedition Scientifique En Mésopotamie: Exécutée Par Ordre Du Gouvernement De 1851 À 1854 by Julius Oppert.
Regular daily checking of the record and the compilation of the matrix itself both help inform the individual archaeologist on the physical processes of site formation and highlight any areas where dubious relationships such as H relationships or loops in the recorded sequence may occur.
Contamination Another problem with ancient DNA samples is contamination by modern human DNA and by microbial DNA (most of which is also ancient).
Šipka is a cave located near Štramberk, Moravian-Silesian Region, Czech Republic, 440 m above sea level.
Although the Human provenance of these teeth is contended, no evidence contradicting this claim has been put forward and it has gained some acceptance.
This helps in planning strategy since stratigraphy problems on rural sites are minimal as features often cut into the natural, minimizing issues of inter-cutting features.
Principle of the method ZooMS identifies species based on differences in the amino acid composition of the collagen protein.
Precursors and associated cultures The Natufian developed in the same region as the earlier Kebaran culture.
Natural actions resulting in sediment being deposited include alluvial (water-related) or aeolian (wind-related) natural processes.
See also Archaeological field survey Archaeological plan Archaeological record Archaeological section Excavation (archaeology) M.
In the process of recombining with a lattice ion, they lose energy and emit photons (light quanta), detectable in the laboratory.
The category of stone tools not only contains finished tools, but also cores (large chunks of rock from which pieces are broken off to make tools) and flakes (material that is wasted when making a tool).
Observe and verify the ink impression (estampage) emerging as white-colored letters (grooves of the characters) against the dark (black) background.
Well preserved in-situ sites of the time are exceedingly rare in Europe and very unusual within a British context.
Emmanuel de Rougé, who began studying Egyptian in 1839, was the first person to translate a full-length ancient Egyptian text; he published the first translations of Egyptian literary texts in 1856.
Middle to Upper Paleolithic transition The Uluzzian is one of several techno-complexes considered to be "transitional assemblages": Uluzzian, Châtelperronian, Szeletian, and Lincombian-Ranisian-Jerzmanowician.
Whether an effective picture of past human activity on a site can be truly estimated through this methods is widely debated.
Using the water dredge to directly suck sediments means that archaeological information on context and stratigraphy is not recorded.
In 1967 researchers described the teeth as of Neanderthal origin and assumed that the accompanying stone tools and shell bead ornaments were typical of a Neanderthal culture, that was subsequently termed the Uluzzi culture as it closely resembles the Châtelperronian.
Hilums differ in their positioning on the starch granule and this positioning can differ between taxa.
Additionally, it leaves microscopic traces on the bone surface, which appear very similar to use wear traces and could be an issue for use wear analysis.
The completed sequence shows that the Okladnikov 2 mtDNA is basal to that sequenced from Mezmaiskaya 1 from Mezmaiskaya Cave and is even closer to western Neanderthals than previously thought.
In the case of tobacco pipes, bore diameters are measured and then averaged and compared with a table of diameters to indicate a probable site date.
A strategy for sampling the contexts and features is formulated which may involve total excavation of each feature or only portions.
Concerns arise when actions taken to preserve the physical object may compromise the spiritual or cultural integrity of a given object.
This allowed entire archeological sites to be dated based on clay pipe stem fragments found at the site.
As for trade, evidence suggests both an increase in the mobility and range of groups as well as an increase in inter-group exchange.
The principle of MNI accounts for each possible individual human or animal as an individual unit in the most parsimonious way, meaning to count the lowest number of individuals in an archaeological site.
Another example is the Milwaukee Road "R08" nail, where the "R" is an unknown treatment or type of wood, and the numbers indicate the year it was installed.
With an approximate age of 46,000 years, human fossils consist of a pair of fragmented mandibles including at least one molar.
(For planning convention styles see archaeological plan) In reality the process is more complex and involves many more contexts for the series of features shown in the diagram.
Use Indian ink (usually black-colored) to smear the paper with the dabber, in order to get the impression of the surface.
It is named after Szeleta Cave in the Bükk Mountains in Hungary, though other prominent sites include Dzierżysław in Poland and Vedrovice V in Moravia.
It enables exploration and examination of context and large land areas, on a scale unparalleled by other archaeological methods.
Geometric networks Geometric networks are linear networks of objects that can be used to represent interconnected features, and to perform special spatial analysis on them.
The age of the fossil is consistent with the period of interbreeding between Neanderthals and modern humans.
Notable for its large-scale application of archaeological geophysics and the geophysical survey in conjunction with expansive test pits.
In his adulthood, however, Ötzi's bones suggest that he moved to the lower Vinschgau and Etsch valley.
Critical evaluation The destruction of the tooth is the first inconvenient of this technique especially in the fields of archaeology and paleontology where non-invasive techniques are preferred.
It was opened in 1890 and the first recreational visitors entered the cave in 1938, two years before it was renamed in honor of Bulgarian National Revival leader, teacher and revolutionary Bacho Kiro.
Early research in this area focused on short sequences of DNA from mitochondrial genes, but sequencing of whole genomes has become possible.
In general, greater probe spacings yield greater depth of investigation, but at the cost of sensitivity and spatial resolution.
Their simple actions during visitation, even just visiting a site can be harmful to it, even serving as an agent of deterioration on their own.
The theoretical point was that no one can be certain of strata by just digging down with no visible/tangible changes; the first trench should always be in spits, until sections are visible (comment posted to the Ausarch discussion list May 2008).
Best practice involves removing the spoil away from the excavation site by mechanical earth moving equipment, or the creation of barrow run fed spoil heaps.
The "Ahmarian" category had only been recognized since the 1980s, and was previously designated as "Phase II Upper Paleolithic" or "Ksar Akil Phase B".
Manufactured by the Marshalltown Company of Marshalltown, Iowa, the trowel was first introduced in the 1890s.
When the stimulus is removed, the protons precess at a rate that can be interpreted to determine the magnetic forces of the area.
Carpology pursues two objectives: to reconstruct the evolution of a certain plant species; and to recreate the landscape and, thus, its flora and fauna.
If the ancient magnetic field were oriented similarly to today's field (North Magnetic Pole near the North Rotational Pole), the strata would retain a normal polarity.
The addition of two such prisms to the ordinary microscope converted the instrument into a polarizing, or petrographic microscope.
References Edney, Matthew H "Bringing India to Hand: Mapping an Empire, Denying Space." In Felicity Nussbaum (ed.): The Global Eighteenth Century, pp 65-78 and 334–36.
Aerial survey systems typically include the following components: Flight navigation software to guide the pilot in flying the desired survey pattern.
As fills of a feature form stratigraphically, the direction off the horizontal by which they form may give us information.
Cut-mark piece considers are, when in doubt, detailed %NISPcut, the level of the complete NISP showing cut-marks NISPcut.
The aim of this interdisciplinary project was to raise awareness and educate the public about natural and archaeological heritage.
The culture was at one time known as the "Kenyan Capsian" because findings resemble those of the North African Capsian trans-Saharan culture.
The Red Lady of El Mirón is a skeleton belonging to a woman of Upper Paleolithic (Magdalenian) found at El Mirón Cave in eastern Cantabria, Spain.
An Upper Paleolithic specimen from Kotias Klde cave in the Caucasus (Caucasus_25,000BP) had around 24% Basal Eurasian and 76% Upper Paleolithic European ancestry.
Fluorine absorption dating is a method used to determine the amount of time an object has been underground.
Spoil management Effective management of spoil is necessary because its volume is in general three times that which it was before excavation.
The matrix thus demonstrates the temporal relationship between any two units of archaeological stratification.
Furthermore, single context recording is not an excuse for not attempting to view the site as a whole during excavation.
Soon a series of incredible findings had been published, claiming authentic DNA could be extracted from specimens that were millions of years old, into the realms of what Lindahl (1993b) has labelled Antediluvian DNA.
Antelias Cave was a large cave located 2.5 km (1.6 mi) east of Antelias, 10 km (6.2 mi) northeast of Beirut close to the wadi of Ksar Akil.
This intensive process can promote a more considered assessment as every feature is treated individually.
Different materials have different albedos with regard to both absorption and reflection of incoming light and thus vary in their ability to create contrast, which may either increase or obscure the shadows.
A representative procedure is listed below: Soak a brush in water Clean the surface of the stone (that holds the inscription) using the brush.
Methodology Wiggle matching may be used as a complement to ordinary radiocarbon dating in some situations where the latter yields several alternatives.
Typically, these surveys were conducted in the pre-colonial Era, as part of the Age of European Enlightenment to study territories before colonization.
These teeth, dated to 43,000–45,000 BP, are the oldest currently-known remains of modern humans in Europe.
Variations of polish type are formed depending on how a tool edge is used functionally, on the type(s) of material, and duration of use.
She subsequently travelled to Malta, where her father was working as the Head of War Hospitals, and began to take an interest in the local antiquities.
Gallery See also Franco-Cantabrian region Gravettian Last Glacial Maximum References External links Clovis and Solutrean: Is There a Common Thread?
Wall maps and other graphics can be generated, allowing the viewer to visualize and thereby understand the results of analyses or simulations of potential events.
It was created because of artifacts in Mayan sites that had been recovered in the 1940s without stratigraphic context.
the method does not tell whether the first object in the sequence is the oldest or the youngest object.
This method is useful for the regression of maps that differ in format, for example, raster images of early maps and vector representations of modern maps.
Cutting is the reason why not all past activity on a site leaves traces of its existence in the sequence.
The use of Secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) in the measurement of obsidian hydration dating was introduced by two independent research teams in 2002.
See also List of Orientalist artists Orientalism Orientalism in early modern France Oriental studies References Further reading Georges Perrot and Charles Chipiez, A History of Art in Chaldæa & Assyria, v.
There is presently no evidence to show that Oldowan tools were the sole creation of members of the Homo line or that the ability to produce them was a special characteristic of only our ancestors.
Within the 30-foot terrace, the implements were originally thought to be early Mousterian, but were later reclassified.
Alternatively, Mesolithic and Neolithic Iranians derive most of their ancestry from a deep West Eurasian source (WEC2; c.
In a genetic study published in Nature in May 2016, the remains of an Epigravettian male from Ripari Villabruna in Italy were examined.
The technological refinement of the Châtelperronian and neighbouring Uluzzian in Central-Southern Italy is often argued to be the product of cultural influence from H.
The archaeologist dislodges the material using a trowel, brush or by making a fanning motion with the hand to cause a current to dislodge sediment.
In 2011, a team of researchers led by Stefano Benazzi of the Department of Anthropology at the University of Vienna published a study in the journal Nature which concluded that the teeth are not of Neanderthal origin, but from an early Homo sapiens and date from 45,000 to 43,000 years BP.
However, the attribution of the entire Uluzzi technology to Anatomically Modern European Humans is more contentious.
Levallois cores are present, but they are poorly made and have not received the careful attention that the Halfa cores have.
In archaeology, a type site (American English) or type-site (British English) is the site used to define a particular archaeological culture or other typological unit, which is often named after it.
When long-lived tree species, such as oak and juniper, are used, however, there is a particular danger of encountering the "old wood" problem.
Despite these earlier forays, the chief pioneer and populariser of varve research was Gerard De Geer.
For example, cultures may be named after pottery types such as Linear Pottery culture or Funnelbeaker culture.
Types of relationship Terminology in archaeology is not definitive but the following are typical uses of terms: Cuts: A context is said to cut another context if the former's creation removed a part of the latter.
Relation to radiocarbon dating Thermoluminescence dating is used for material where radiocarbon dating is not available, like sediments.
It is a powerful tool for understanding surface characteristics and elemental makeup in a wide range of samples.
Villalba-Mouco et al examined the remains of two males of the Azilian culture buried at the Late Upper Paleolithic site of Balma de Guilanyà, Catalonia, Spain c.
The vascular cambium ring is active during growing season and produces a new layer of xylem tissue or growth ring every year.
A recent article by Lycett and Eren (2013) statistically shows the efficiency of the Levallois technique which at times has been called into question.
Dirk Albert Hooijer studied the fauna from the cave and found Dama and Capra to have been predominant.
It was also used to disprove the validity of the Calaveras Skull, the first use of fluorine dating on human bone.
Where previously prehistory had been considered particularly French or European, Garrod expanded the subject to a global scale.
Both animal and human figures strive for realism, a rarity in Paleolithic art that reinforces the unique value of the site.
Comparing maps of an area compiled in different periods can help reconstruct the chronology of events which have altered the natural or built environment.
If the excavation is related to development, the impact assessment may stipulate excavation will cease at a certain depth, because the nature of the development will not disturb remains below a certain level.
Trend surface analysis, also known as trend surface mapping, is a mathematical technique used in archaeology and environmental sciences such as geology and soil science.
They were found to be carrying the paternal haplogroups I and C1a1a, and the maternal haplogroups U5b2a and U2'3'4'7'8'9.
The mission which involved the excavation of the palace of the Assyrian King Sargon II in Khorsabad (formerly Nineveh), would become the first systematic excavation of the site.
The scar created by the removal of the preceding flake would provide a striking platform for the removal of the next.
Terminology The Azilian was named by Édouard Piette, who excavated the Mas d'Azil type-site in 1887.
The cultural significance of these geoglyphs for their creators remains unclear, despite many hypotheses.
The FD equations are based on a number of assumptions about the behavior of water as it diffused into the glass and characteristic points of the SIMS H+ diffusion profile.
The discoverers concluded that: The overall shape and discrete morphological features of the Manot 1 calvaria demonstrate that this partial skull is unequivocally modern.
Metabolites Metabolites are small organic molecules usually involved in metabolism either as a substrate or product.
aDNA Enrichment As aDNA may contain bacterial DNA or other microorganisms, the process requires enrichment.
Partage, from the French word "partager" meaning "to share," was a system put in place to divide up ownership of excavated artifacts during the early part of the 20th century.
The rapid formation and short period of usage of a nest, and the incorporation of a variety of palaeoecological indicators, makes each mud-wasp nest a ‘snapshot’ of its late Quaternary environment." The most widely-used OSL method is called single-aliquot regeneration (SAR).
He was also required to make casts and stampings of inscriptions, using the new and still secret procedure developed by Lattin de Laval.
Examples of aerial survey sensors Vexcel UltraCam today consists of four photogrammetric nadir and oblique cameras (Eagle, Falcon, Osprey, Condor) and their calibrations.
This comparison technique, when done microscopically allows for the specific taxa identification of starch grains found on specific artifacts, such as ground stone tools, within soils, through dental calculus, or found in reference to ceramic vessels.
Magnifications of between x10 and x50 are sufficient to locate target residues, describe features and confirm internal structures of the identified residues.
In the UK the results of the trial trenching will be used to inform the decision on the need for any further archaeological work to be undertaken prior to development.
Attempts to find a meaning for their iconography have not got very far, although "the repeated combinations of motifs does seem to some extent to be ordered, which may suggest a simple syntax".
This is because the contexts representing the fills have been omitted for simplicity and the matrix shown is more akin to a Carver matrix (Not to be confused with the military term also named CARVER matrix).
A cut has zero thickness and no material properties of its own and is defined by the limits of other contexts.
Researchers suggested that this cave would have served better for human use than the actual Okladnikov Cave, although they found no traces of human occupation.
Description The site consists of a large two level cave with the entrance on the upper level of the western face of an Eifelian limestone cliff and a large terrace which forms a rock shelter of 50 m (160 ft) width and 5 m (16 ft) depth.
Chronology, major sites and distribution The technocomplex is named after findings in Kents Cavern, which is situated on Lincombe Hill, Torquay (Devon, England), the cave of Ilsenhöhle in Ranis (Thuringia, Germany), and Nietopierzowa cave in Jerzmanowice (Kraków County, Poland).
In the hands of a trained archaeologist, the water dredge performs the same function as a wheelbarrow on land.
This is because the relationships across the section have been destroyed by the cutting of construction cut 5 and even if it is likely that layers 1 and 4 are probably the same deposit the information can not be guaranteed if the only information we had was this section.
2024 argues that the Basal Eurasian lineage diverged from other Eurasians soon after the Out-of-Africa migration, and subsequently became isolated, until it started to mix with other populations in the Middle East since around 25,000 years ago.
This archive of women's clothing and accessories, from all social classes, is a resource for courses in costume design, history, material culture, and literary history and curatorial practices.
As Basal Eurasians had low levels of Neanderthal ancestry, genetic and archaeological evidence for interactions between modern humans and Neanderthals may allow certain areas, such as the Levant, to be ruled out as possible sources for Basal Eurasians.
Sampling strategy There is some argument over the sampling strategy to be employed in trial trenching, especially in evaluating sites that are intended for development.
Due to these disagreements, there is now a more precise set of criteria that outlines Levallois technology from a geometric standpoint.
laid the groundwork for the infrared stimulated luminescence (IRSL) dating of potassium feldspars in 1988.
The importance of the site was recognised following photographs taken by Kenneth St Joseph in 1959 (published in 1964).
Whether these early humans were in fact Homo sapiens or Neanderthals was disputed until morphological analysis of a tooth and mitochondrial DNA of bone fragments established that remains were those of Homo sapiens.
She was based at the RAF Medmenham photographic interpretation unit as a section officer (equivalent in rank to flying officer).
This act allowed for federal protection of sites from looting but failed to protect native peoples from having their land and ancestral objects seized.
Despite its advanced state of disrepair, the wreck is still complete with its cargo and a significant quantity of pottery, some of which shows signs of deformation by heat.
The Châtelperronian is a proposed industry of the Upper Palaeolithic, the existence of which is debated.
The contexts were labeled in chronological order by numbers 01 to 60, the types are labeled in the form T00001 to T00050.
The cave is one of several Paleolithic sites located in the Anuy Basin, along with Denisova Cave, Ust-Karakol, Kamminaya Cave, Isrkra Cave, Karama and Anuy I-III.
Flinders Petrie, the younger contemporary of archaeologist Augustus Pitt Rivers, was meticulous in his excavations and recorded every artifact and detail on site.
It is of even more vital importance when excavating such sites to compile the matrix as the excavation progresses.
They consisted of a mixture of ancestry between people from the preceding Magdalenian culture, as well as Villabruna/Western Hunter-Gatherer cluster, which shares affinities to people from the Middle East and Caucasus.
By their nature, crop marks are visible only seasonally and may not be visible at all except in exceptionally wet or dry years.
Unlike other coinages by Piette, the name was generally accepted, indeed in the early 20th century used for much greater areas than it is today.
Neighbours The Azilian culture coexisted with similar early Mesolithic European cultures, such as the Federmesser in northern Europe, the Tjongerian in the Low Countries, the Romanellian culture of Italy, the Creswellian in Britain and the Clisurian in Romania (in a process called azilianization).
Satellite archaeology is a non-invasive method for mapping and monitoring potential archaeological sites in an ever changing world that faces issues such as urbanization, looting, and groundwater pollution that could pose threats to such sites.
So, if a similar style of pottery was found at a different site, they must be from around the same time period.
In archaeology a fill is the material that has accumulated or has been deposited into a cut feature such as ditch or pit of some kind of a later date than the feature itself.
Perennial herb species belonging to the dicotyledon group (also known as perennial forbs) are characterized by secondary growth, which shows as a new growth ring added each year to persistent roots.
de and Garrod D., 1949, "Les fragments de bas-reliefs découverts dans le gisement magdalénien ancien d’Angles-sur-l’Anglin (Vienne)", C.-R.
Around 19% ancestry of the GoyetQ116-1 individual is derived from a Bacho Kiro IUP-like source, while up to 39% ancestry of the Tianyuan man is derived from an IUP-affiliated source distantly related to the Bacho Kiro IUP remains, explaining the unusual affinity between GoyetQ116-1 and Tianyuan.
Formation Varves form in a variety of marine and lacustrine depositional environments from seasonal variation in clastic, biological, and chemical sedimentary processes.
These are the main type of Azilian art, showing a great reduction in scale and complexity from the Magdalenian Art of the Upper Palaeolithic.
A team including adventurer Ranulph Fiennes, archaeologist Juris Zarins, filmmaker Nicholas Clapp, and lawyer George Hedges, scouted the area on several trips, and stopped at a water well called Ash Shisar.
GNSS, combining GPS and an inertial measurement unit (IMU) to provide accurate position and orientation data.
Separation of components Separation of the ingredients of a crushed rock powder to obtain pure samples for analysis is a common approach.
Culture The Uluzzians made and used beads from shells of marine molluscs such as scaphopods, snails (Columbella rustica, Cyclope neritea), and other species.
and Fuentes O., 2003, "Le 'sorcier' du Roc-aux-Sorciers à Angles-sur-l'Anglin (Vienne, France) : nouveaux éléments d'analyse", Antiquités Nationales, n° 35, pp.
The term derives from similar ones in geology, horizon or marker horizon, but where these have natural causes, archaeological horizons are caused by humans.
Physics then dictates a circular or oval end pattern, similar to the handaxe, for a leftover core after flake production.
See also Fernand Courby, a French archaeologist Collection of over 10,000 estampages from Greece and Middle East at Maison de l'Orient et de la Méditerranée, Lyon, France Rubbing (art) == References ==
He put forward his polemical ideas in A Study of Archaeology, which served as a critique of culture-historical archaeology and put forward his prescription of a conjunctive archaeology.
Andrew Millard refers to wiggle matching as a way of dealing with the flat portion of the carbon-14 calibration graph that is known as the Hallstatt plateau, named after the Hallstatt culture period in central Europe that it coincides with.
In the periodization of pre-Columbian Peru and the Central Andes, there are three Horizon periods with two Intermediate periods between them.
The material culture associated with archaeological excavations and the scholarly records in academic journals are the physical embodiment of the archaeological record.
A slice of rock was affixed to a microscope slide and then ground so thin that light could be transmitted through mineral grains that otherwise appeared opaque.
Appearance The most obvious and occurring trace of soil marks is a difference in color relative to the rest of soil.
Harris matrices play an invaluable role in the articulation of sequence and provide the building blocks from which higher order units of stratigraphically related events can be constructed.
As more evidence of the predynastic period is uncovered, this dating method in relation to the pottery on site aids in determining the relative date of the site.
A few days later, on the 7th of December 2022, a study in Nature reported that two-million year old genetic material was found in Greenland, and is currently considered the oldest DNA discovered so far.
The Micro-Mousterian or Micromousterian is a name given by Alfred Rust and Henri Fleisch to a Palaeolithic industry of small stone tools.
The technique involves hitting a block of wood laid over the ground surface with a weighty hammer and assessing the sound given out.
Stacked together with other strata, individual stratum can form composite stratigraphic units that can extend over hundreds of thousands of square kilometers of the Earth's surface.
However, since different sites have different levels of fluorine in the groundwater, fluorine absorption dating can only be used to determine the relative age of bones from the same site.
The concept derives from the geological use of the idea that sedimentation takes place according to uniform principles.
When viewed under light microscopy, a specific type of cementum (Acellular Extrinsic Fibers Cementum - AEFC) surrounding the root appears as layers of alternating dark and light bands.
A stone foundation might impede the flow of electricity, while the organic deposits within a midden might conduct electricity more easily than surrounding soils.
In doing so, several approximately 1 m2 (11 ft2) test excavations are carried out over the area, as far as possible down to the 'natural soil' level.
The cave was disturbed by looters during the period between the two waves of excavations, damaging the layers corresponding to the Upper Palaeolithic; because of this, the cave entrance is covered by a gate and is closed to the public.
Lawrence Keeley, following in the footsteps of Sergei Semenov, conducted microscopic studies (with a high-powered optical microscope) on the edges of tools manufactured de novo and used for the originally speculative purposes described above.
When a number of objects are recovered from one deposit, the terminus post quem is based on the dating from the 'youngest' find.
g., a shipwreck and giving misleading dates must be considered.) Organic samples which are not derived from the same part of an organism, may show dating variations which blur and obscure the interpretation being attempted.
Next meeting with motto "Revealing the Past, Enriching the Present and Shaping the Future Languages in 2021 was transferred to the Siberian Federal University in Krasnoyarsk.
Finally, a key bed, also called a marker bed, is a well-defined, easily identifiable stratum or body of strata that has sufficiently distinctive characteristics, such as lithology or fossil content, to be recognized and correlated during geologic field or subsurface mapping.
The following year she was asked urgently to excavate at Ras El Kelb, as a significant cave had been disturbed by road and rail construction.
Atkinson (best known for excavating Stonehenge), "unequivocally" recommended the use of a trowel for archaeology; during the postwar era, WHS and a competing brand from Bowden were predominant.
Created and co-produced by Nautilus Productions and Marine Grafics, this project enabled students to talk to scientists and learn about methods and technologies utilized by the underwater archaeology team.
As DNA degrades over time, the nucleotides that make up the DNA may change, especially at the ends of the DNA molecules.
Under partage, foreign-led excavation teams provided the expertise and material means to lead excavations and in return were allowed to share the finds with the local government's archaeological museums.
Under the name Omphalodes linifolia, this plant has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
(2001) Armitage's Manual of Annuals, Biennials, and Half Hardy Perennials, illustrated Asha Kays and Chris Johnson.
As they grow in the mountains, they are much more cold hardy than some of the Oncocyclus section irises native to Israel-Palestine.
The species epithet manners-suttoniae was given by Mueller in honour of the wife of the Victorian Governor John Henry Manners-Sutton.
It consisted of 6 branches united into one trunk." It had a circumference of 25 m before its constituent trunks collapsed outward on 7 January 2016.
It is not well adapted to colder conditions and can experience significant winter kill in the Front Range region of Colorado.
Fremontodendron 'Ken Taylor' — golden flowers with a darker orange outside petals in the spring and summer, and grows to only 5 feet (1.5 m) in height by 8–10 feet (2.4–3.0 m) in width.
Distribution and habitat Myoporum parvifolium occurs in the south-west corner of New South Wales, and from the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia eastwards to Victoria.
Acacia peuce, commonly known as Birdsville wattle, waddy, waddi, or waddy-wood, is a tree species that is endemic to central Australia.
In North American habitat restoration, native violets are in high demand due to their relationship with the aforementioned fritillary butterflies.
The plant is native to the Cape Floristic Province of southwestern South Africa, where it grows at low elevations on fully exposed north-facing and northwest-facing slopes in association with other native grasses and forbs.
This gives the species an abundance of dried and dead leaves covering the stem; distinguishing it from the relatively leafless stem of Dudleya caespitosa.
Smaller populations are found in arid regions of the Pilbara in the Hamersley Range, in central parts of the Northern Territory and in south-western Queensland near Blackall.
Sphaeralcea incana, with the common names gray globemallow and soft globemallow, is a desert plant in the mallow family (Malvaceae).
Uses The tree is used by apiarists for honey production as the tree produces nectar in winter when few other plants are in flower.
It has clusters of four to eight flowers with petals 7–10 mm (0.28–0.39 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods 60–70 mm (2.4–2.8 in) long and 9–12 mm (0.35–0.47 in) wide.
This shrub grows through underground stems and is typically grown as ground cover or to stabilize soil on hills and requires low maintenance.
International use The Canadian city of Montreal has a Lancastrian rose in the top right hand corner of its flag, representing the city's historical English community.
It is the winner of the Award of Garden Merit from the California Horticultural Society in 1965, and received a First Class Certificate from the Royal Horticultural Society in 1967.
Several cultivars have been selected for flower color and plant form, for use in Mediterranean climate and other low-water-use gardens, including: Penstemon heterophyllus 'Electric Blue' — intense blue flowers.
In North America it occurs in the United States' southwestern states from southern California to central Texas, and south to southern Mexico.
The Clapton Nursery also known as Mackay's Clapton Nursery and later Low's Clapton Nursery was a plant nursery established in the early 19th century by John Bain Mackay in Upper Clapton, London, and noted for its introductions of Australian and South American plants into cultivation.
The species is cultivated as an ornamental and has become naturalized in many areas, including Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, and in southern and western parts of the United States.
Description Koeleria macrantha is a short, tuft-forming perennial bunchgrass, reaching heights from 20–70 centimetres (8–27+1⁄2 inches).
In Southeast Asia, rose water is the basis for a sweet, red-tinted cordial sometimes enhanced with screwpine (pandan) and/or spices called sirap mawar or sirap ros.
The fruits contain, often very numerous, bell-shaped, glossy black seeds, which are strongly humped.
Fremontodendron 'Dara's Gold' — golden flowers over a long period from late winter through early summer, grows 0.91 m (3 ft) in height by 1.8–2.4 m (6–8 ft) in width.
Notable specimens One of the few trees to survive the blast from the 6 August 1945 atomic bombing of Hiroshima Japan, was an E.
It has elliptic to inversely lanced–shaped leaves, pale green, up to 7 inches (18 cm) long and carried in whorls of 12–20 leaves.
It is also found scattered in the limestone areas of Crete (including the islands of Gavdos and Dia), also on Karpathos and occasionally on Rhodes and the Datça peninsula in Western Turkey.
Associated species in the overstorey include; Eucalyptus largiflorens and Eucalyptus coolabah while the understorey species include; Acacia stenophylla and Eremophila bignoniflora along with Muehlenbeckia florulenta.
Common names include bushy matgrass, bushy lippia, hierba negra, juanilama, pamporegano, poleo and pitiona.
It is a twisting, occasionally lying, herbaceous plant which is more or less densely hairy on the axial parts with backward-looking trichomes.
Streptocarpus faninii (not currently listed, could this perhaps be referring to Streptocarpus fanniniae?), is apparently noteworthy because of its contribution to many of the “more beautiful hybrids”.
Tree peonies have been in culture in China for millennia, and it is likely that hybrids came into being in gardens, where different wild tree peony species were planted closely together.
This includes allowing a good skin set before harvest, minimizing damage while harvesting, avoiding harvesting potatoes from wet areas that are more susceptible or likely to be diseased, and avoid harvesting in temperatures greater than 65 °F (18 °C).
During dry periods, parts above ground, such as leaves, will wither away but the plant will survive due to the tuber.
Cultivation It was introduced to the Royal Botanic Garden at Kew in 1774 by Nikolaus Joseph von Jacquin.
It is a low, spreading shrub with long, trailing stems and white, star-shaped flowers and is endemic to southern Australia including Flinders Island.
The berries are quite tart, so they are often cooked and sweetened before eating as lingonberry jam, compote, juice, smoothie or syrup.
The large flowers are lavender to deep blue-purple in color with protruding stamens tipped with white anthers.
Morphology Sporangiophores are an average of 373 (260-484) micrometers with the first branch appearing at 197 (120-271) micrometers.
The flowers are 14 cm long, funnel or trumpet shaped, white with yellow throat, flushed purple outside.
It was formerly the venue for the gàmmu, an annual festival during which the kingdom's provincial rulers pledged their loyalty to the king.
Description It is an evergreen shrub growing to a height of 3–4 m (rarely 10 m) tall, with a trunk diameter up to 20 cm.
He was also commissioned by Arabella, Duchess of Dorset to design a lakeside walk of shrubs and ornamental trees, complete with a boathouse, at Buckhurst Park, Sussex.
Taxonomy The genus was named after the Scottish-Canadian botanist William Fraser Tolmie, while the species name refers to Archibald Menzies, the Scottish naturalist for the Vancouver Expedition (1791–1795).
Growing to 100 cm (39 in) long, it is a straggling evergreen perennial with heart shaped, gray-green, downy leaves.
schlumbergeri E.Morren ex Mez (1892) - Bolivia, Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay Aechmea distichantha var.
That clade, originally given the informal name Telephium and later Hylotelephium, was given the taxonomic rank of tribe Telephieae.
The tree bears small white flowers, which on female trees turn into bunches of small berry type fruit, which attract birds who feed on the berries.
This plant can grow to more than 1 m (3.3 ft) tall and broad, with long narrow leaves up to 40 cm (16 in) in length.
It has been considered to be a carnivorous or protocarnivorous plant because it possesses glandular trichomes underneath the flowers that can trap and digest prey.
Chelmos in May 1984 by Arne Strid (from Denmark), it was first thought to be a form of Iris germanica.
The green-crowned brilliant hummingbird feeds at the large inflorescences of the Marcgravia polyadenia vines.
The variegation of the leaves arises from the distinct white veins contrasted with the dark green of the leaf.
Peak flowering times are winter to summer in New South Wales and October to March in South Australia and the fruit that follows are succulent, rounded, yellowish-white and up to 8.5 millimetres (0.3 in) in diameter.
It has clusters of six to fifteen flowers with petals 8–10 mm (0.31–0.39 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods about 70 mm (2.8 in) long and 15–25 mm (0.59–0.98 in) wide.
Strychnos pungens (English: spine-leaved monkey-orange, Afrikaans: Stekelblaarklapper) is a tree which belongs to the Loganiaceae.
Cultivation A number of geranium species are cultivated for horticultural use and for pharmaceutical products.
Varieties As of August 2024, Plants of the World Online accepted two varieties: Euonymus fortunei var.
Distribution and habitat The species is native to southern Europe from the western Mediterranean to southern Italy.
Flowers are small with anthers that sit outside the small tube created by the petals, typical of Curio species.
Crossosoma bigelovii, known by the common name ragged rockflower, is one of only a few species in the flowering plant family Crossosomataceae.
The young tips of the branches are used in traditional medicine to treat indigestion and stomach ulcers.
It is one of the most common trees on the Highveld and in the Bushveld in South Africa, but not found in the Lowveld.
Cultivation The species is cultivated in the specialty horticulture trade with limited availability as an ornamental plant: for natural landscaping, native plant, and habitat gardens; wildlife gardens; and restoration projects.
The species is reportedly naturalised in Florida, Chiapas, Central America, Queensland, and much of the West Indies.
Mistol leaves are oval shaped, alternate, entire, with three prominent basal veins, 2–7 cm long and slightly petiolated.
Lotus berthelotii is a flowering plant endemic to the Canary Islands of Spain, in the genus Lotus of the pea family Fabaceae.
It has also been found as an introduced species in Ontario, Canada and Hungary in the European Union.
Oomycetes have the ability to spread via zoospores whose multiple flagella require moisture in order to move.
sillamontana should be grown in a well lit position, although direct summer sun can cause burns, so gradual acclimatization is needed.
It was originally published as Iris cengialti but then re-classified as a subspecies of Iris pallida, and known as Iris pallida subsp.
Lilium humboldtii, or Humboldt's lily, is a species of lily native to the US state of California and the Mexican state of Baja California.
Uses The seed can be ground into a powder, which can then be boiled in water like a porridge or made into flour or bread.
A calcifuge, it requires acid pH soil, typically in a partially shaded setting such as dappled woodland.
Cultivation Sisyrinchium bellum prefers some moisture and good drainage, but will tolerate summer dryness.
The genus Anabasis belongs to the tribe Salsoleae s.s., in the subfamily Salsoloideae of the family Amaranthaceae (which includes the family Chenopodiaceae).
Its daisy-like inflorescence are yellow on a long stalk, 30-60 cm long, with scale-like bracts that are branched to the top into a loose corymb that hold 30 or more daisy-like heads.
African American arts This grass has historical importance in South Carolina, where it has been used for basket weaving.
Taxonomy Mirbelia speciosa was first formally described in 1825 by Augustin Pyramus de Candolle Augustin Pyramus de Candolle in his Prodromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis from an unpublished description by Franz Sieber.
Penstemon heterophyllus is a species of penstemon known by the common names bunchleaf penstemon, foothill penstemon, and foothill beardtongue.
An evergreen species, it provides food to deer and elk in winter and can make up a significant part of their diet.
One, located at the former slave market at the center of town, was replanted at the site of the original to which slaves were shackled.
It has been produced historically in West Texas and currently in Central Texas using the Dasylirion texanum species.
ocellatum - southern California, Baja California Both subspecies are on the California Native Plant Society Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants of California and described as "fairly endangered in California".
The flower is unusual in that the central trumpet (corona) is exceptionally large in relation to the outer section (perianth) consisting of tiny pointed segments.
Several of the common names of the plant come from the affinity of doves and wild turkeys for the seeds.
Black sage honey can only be made when specific rain conditions are met and the plant produces enough nectar.
Etymology Dasylirion is a compound word from the Greek, literally meaning 'dense' or 'shaggy' + 'lily'.
History of discovery and hybridisation The following is an adapted excerpt from the 1906 text "Hortus Veitchii": The first Streptocarpus to reach British gardens was Streptocarpus rexii.
Description The plant grows to 15–30 centimetres (6–12 in) tall and 40 cm (16 in) wide, forming a woody, evergreen subshrub with small and highly aromatic grey-green leaves, as well as clusters of purple or pink flowers in early summer.
Sporobolus heterolepis, commonly known as prairie dropseed, is a species of prairie grass native to the tallgrass and mixed grass prairies of central North America from Texas to southern Canada.
Cultivation Carpenteria californica is cultivated as an ornamental plant, grown for its lush foliage, large scented flowers and drought tolerance.
Distribution and habitat This mirbelia grows in heath, woodland and forest north from the Illawarra region in New South Wales to north Queensland.
Manchester City Football Club featured the red rose on the club badge from 1972 to 1997 and reinstated it in 2015, reflecting Manchester's history as part of Lancashire.
The seeds of buffalograss break their dormancy more readily with some damage to the outer layers of the seed.
Echeveria derenbergii, the painted-lady, is a species of flowering plant in the family Crassulaceae, endemic to eastern Oaxaca in Mexico.
The glossy, evergreen foliage forms a billowing mound, with many fragrant, pure white flowers in tight clusters for several weeks during spring and early summer.
cardinale plants collected in California: browniine; dehydrobrowniine; hetisine; dehydrohetisine and lycoctonine.
Each leaf is 8–12 centimetres (3.1–4.7 in) long, with leaflets that are 3–5 centimetres (1.2–2.0 in) long and 1.5–4 centimetres (0.6–1.6 in) wide.
In the case of Cassia brewsteri the leaflets are approximately 5 cm long, bright green, glossy or waxy above and whitish-green below.
Then in July 1936, in the 'Journal of The Royal Horticultural Society' Vol.61 Edition7, page 291 and the 'Bulletin of the American Iris Society' Vol.66 on page56 in September 1937.
Some botanical sources, such as the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service PLANTS database (PLANTS), continue to list the species as Mahonia repens.
The flowers are yellow-white to pinkish, decumbent, bell-shaped, and 4 to 5 mm (3⁄16 to 3⁄16 in) long.
Insects such as predatory wasps, hoverflies and lacewings feed on nectar as adults, while their larval forms are predatory and feed on garden pests.
It continues the work of Theodore Payne, an English horticulturist, gardener, landscape designer, and botanist.
Echeveria desmetiana, incorrectly known as Echeveria peacockii, is a succulent plant in the family Crassulaceae.
Its ability to seemingly regenerate after fires highlights its ability to withstand these fire-prone climates.
Pharmacological effects Calendula officinalis oil is still used medicinally as an anti-inflammatory and a remedy for healing wounds.
Ecology The shrub grows generally on alluvial plains, in California montane chaparral and woodlands and temperate coniferous forest habitats, among Tecate cypress (Cupressus forbesii) trees.
Virus taxonomy : classification and nomenclature of viruses : ninth report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.
Identification At the northern extent of its range, this species can overlap with Arctostaphylos osoensis.
Butterflies are attracted by most good nectar sources, though there are particular plants they seem to prefer.
Leaf spots tend to be tan to gray and are often the result of previous damage such as freeze injury, scorching or mechanical wounds.
Chemistry The Nicotine-related alkaloid Anabasine was named for the toxic Central Asiatic species Anabasis aphylla - from which it was first isolated by Orechoff and Menschikoff in the year 1931.
Almost invariably there are small pockets of hairs or acarodomatia, providing a refuge for mites in the axils of veins on the underside of the leaves.
The difference between the two lies in the lack of regular banding on the leaves of the Stromanthe, and the generally more rounded shape of the leaves in Ctenanthe.
The flowers are mostly arranged in leaf axils, the sepals are 6–8 mm (0.24–0.31 in) long, silky-hairy and joined at the base to form a tube with tapering teeth about as long as the tube.
Rosa gallica, the Gallic rose, French rose, or rose of Provins, is a species of flowering plant in the rose family, native to southern and central Europe eastwards to Turkey and the Caucasus.
Vaccinium ovalifolium (commonly known as Alaska blueberry, early blueberry, oval-leaf bilberry, oval-leaf blueberry, and oval-leaf huckleberry) is a plant in the heath family with three varieties, all of which grow in northerly regions (e.g.
It is closely related to the similar genus Philadelphus and is monotypic, being represented by the single species Carpenteria californica which is a flowering evergreen shrub native to the Sierra Nevada foothills in California.
The nursery's most successful rose cultivars include: ''Albéric Barbier' (1900), 'Paul Transon' (1901), 'Alexandre Girault' (1909), and 'Albertine'(1921).
Foliage is aromatic, but it has been noted that the scent is closer to that of oregano than to other kinds of lavender.
Delphinium cardinale is a species of larkspur known by the common names scarlet larkspur and cardinal larkspur.
The RHS Award of Garden Merit-winning cultivar 'Kiftsgate' was first noticed at Kiftsgate Court Gardens in the Cotswolds, but its origin is unknown.
Subspecies and cultivars There are several subspecies and cultivars, including: Otatea acuminata subsp.
Ehretia rigida (puzzle bush, also deurmekaarbos in Afrikaans = "confused/tangled bush"), is a small, multi-stemmed tree with a tangled growth habit belonging to the family Ehretiaceae.
Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWVI) is a plant pathogenic virus of the order Picornavirales, family Secoviridae, subfamily Comovirinae, genus Fabavirus.
Ribes echinellum, the Miccosukee gooseberry, is a very rare North American shrub in the currant family, native to the southeastern United States.
In European Russia, Ukraine, and Crimea it is typically found in dry grasslands (steppes), including on ancient burial mounds, where it grows association with other steppe plants.
Nakai - (Transverse ranges liveforever) The subspecies marcescens and ovatifolia are federally listed as threatened species of the United States.
In open areas, the crown is broad and rounded, with lower branches nearly touching the ground or forming a browse line.
The leaves are mildly incurved, ovate-lanceolate, and are packed – dense and numerous – within the rosette.
Medicinal Native tribes, most notably Kwakwaka'wakw, used parts of the plant for medicinal purposes, such as poultices and bark infusions.
The alcoholic drink sotol, the northern cousin to tequila and mezcal, is made from the fermented inner cores of the plant.
Taxonomy The plant was known to botanists, including Dioscorides (Διοσκουρίδης, 40 AD – 90 AD) in his De Materia Medica (Ancient Greek: Περὶ ὕλης ἰατρικῆς) as Telephion (Ancient Greek: Τηλεφιον).
Fremontodendron mexicanum Davidson — Mexican flannelbush Endemic to the central Peninsular Ranges, known from about ten occurrences in northern Baja California state and adjacent southern San Diego County, California.
Pieris japonica, the Japanese andromeda or Japanese pieris, is a species of flowering plant in the heath family Ericaceae.
Coimbra, Frutas silvestres comestibles de Santa Cruz, Editorial FAN, 2002, Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia.
Lilium hansonii, known as Hanson's lily and Japanese Turk's-cap lily, is an East Asian species of plants in the lily family.
The genus name Calendula is a modern Latin diminutive of calendae, meaning "little calendar", "little clock" or possibly "little weather-glass".
References External links Jepson Manual treatment: Eriogonum crocatum Eriogonum crocatum — U.C.Photo gallery
Erythronium japonicum, known as Asian fawn lily, Oriental fawn lily, Japanese fawn lily is a pink-flowered species trout lily, belonging to the Lily family and native to Japan, Korea, the Russian Far East (Sakhalin Island, Kuril Islands) and northeastern China (Jilin and Liaoning).
splendens), sometimes called treasure flower, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to coastal areas of southern Africa.
The berries are also popular as a wild picked fruit or fruit crop in Newfoundland and Labrador, where they are locally known as partridgeberries or redberries.
The main sinker root grows straight down to the water table; it may be up to 15 m (49 ft) long if the water table is that deep.
Later use The rose does not form any part of the insignia of the Duchy of Lancaster, but came to be seen as an emblem of the county of Lancashire, and as such was incorporated in the coats of arms of numerous Lancashire local authorities including the county council.
Common names include New Jersey tea, Jersey tea ceanothus, variations of red root (red-root; redroot), mountain sweet (mountain-sweet; mountainsweet), and wild snowball.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, and updated on 3 December 2004.
In Burkina Faso the dried powdered leaves are taken to treat malaria, while in Côte d’Ivoire and Togo the roots are used for this purpose.
Inflorescence is (despite the name of the species referring to a panicle) an umbel with as many as 100 flowers.
While dormant, they are quite difficult to kill, and they remain viable in dry debris for more than one year.
Monardella odoratissima (mountain coyote mint, mountain beebalm, mountain monardella or mountain pennyroyal) is a perennial flowering plant.
Distribution and habitat The tree inhabits dry to arid spiniferous forests in a rather broad area of southern South America which extends mainly through I to IV regions of Chile and central and northern Argentina and throughout highland Bolivia, though it is also found in Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay.
Salvia yangii, previously known as Perovskia atriplicifolia (), and commonly called Russian sage, is a flowering herbaceous perennial plant and subshrub.
It was one of the parents, along with Lilium pardalinum, that produced the Bellingham hybrid lilies, which eventually resulted in the popular 'Shuksan' and 'Star of Oregon' lilies.
In the traditional Swabian method the rose hips are cut open and stored until they are soft (that takes for about 5 days in a temperature of 12 °C (54 °F)).
It occurs over a wide range of habitat throughout the eastern part of South Africa, and in Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Mozambique.
Since 1991–1992, strawberry foliar nematode incidence numbers have been increasing in a variety of plants, but especially in strawberry and greenhouse plants such as Hosta.
Other former members of the genus are now classified in Erodium, including the plants known as filarees in North America.
menziesii (firewood banksia) have also been produced by artificial means, and presumed natural hybrids have been recorded.
However it reverts easily, so all normal offshoots need to be removed quickly to maintain the cristate form.
In 1978, Leslie Pedley nominated the specimens collected by Cunningham at Port Keats on the Cambridge Gulf as the lectotype.
Description Ballota nigra has a very strong characteristic smell reminiscent of mould or damp soil, and can be recognised by its clusters of hairy, reddish-purple flowers.
References External links Media related to Encephalartos ferox at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Encephalartos ferox at Wikispecies
The saguaro is remarkable for the scale and completeness of gene loss; essentially no traces of the 11 ndh genes remain in the plastid.
The stolons of blue morning glory create a thick mat over ground plants, reducing the light available for those plants.
graminifolium is endemic to Australia and is the Stylidium species with the widest distribution throughout Australia.
The plant quickly loses its desirable appearance with excessive watering, too dark a location, and an excess of nitrogen.
The leaves are up to 11 centimeters long with toothed, crinkly, oval or rounded blades borne on long petioles.
Habitat Typical habitat is in chert or shale talus at the edge of chaparral or within chaparral gaps.
Calendula flowers are sacred flowers in India and have been used to decorate the statues of Hindu deities since early times.
Young plants and coppice regrowth have oblong to round or elliptical, later egg-shaped leaves that are 60–300 mm (2.4–11.8 in) long, 70–130 mm (2.8–5.1 in) wide and petiolate.
White-winged doves are important pollinators, visiting blooms more often than any other bird species.
Uses It is useful in the garden as groundcover, where it can be short-lived, but is easily propagated from cuttings.
It is native to the Northern and Western Cape Provinces of South Africa, though it is now naturalized in France, Madeira and the Azores.
The plant is small, growing to 30–40 cm (12–16 in) tall by 15 cm (6 in) wide, with blue-green foliage and tiny white or off-white flowers in Spring and Summer.
– central and southern Europe, central and southwestern Asia Ajuga chasmophila P.H.Davis – Syria Ajuga ciliata Bunge – China, Korea, Japan Ajuga davisiana Kit Tan & Yildiz – Turkey Ajuga decaryana Danguy ex R.A.Clement – Madagascar Ajuga decumbens Thunb.
Introduced Range Campanula carpatica has also been introduced into areas outside of its natural range.
It is particularly vigorous, with clusters of scented flowers up to 45 centimetres (18 in) diameter, and tolerant of shade, a necessary attribute for a tree climber.
Geographer Al-Dimashqi wrote that his native Damascus exported rose water to much of the Arab world.
Description Parry's grama is annual grass that grows 20–60 cm (7.9–23.6 in) tall, although sometimes to 80 cm (31 in).
praecox, it has up to 20 poisonous, strap-like leaves per plant which are arching and are not leathery.
This bowing is temporary, only occurring during the egg laying period of species that use the plant as a host, such as goldenrod gall fly (Eurosta solidaginis) and the goldenrod bunch gall midge (Rhopalomyia solidaginis).
In 2021, Plant Delights' spring catalog featured President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, and a number of children reading sexually suggestive pages from a book held by Biden entitled "Kama Seedtra".
Carnivorous plant exhibits at the San Antonio Botanical Garden and the San Francisco Conservatory of Flowers have featured plants grown and provided by California Carnivores in their exhibits.
Gallery References External links Images of Actinidia kolomikta- Flavon's Secret Flower Garden Actinidia kolomikta Medicinal Plant Images Database (School of Chinese Medicine, Hong Kong Baptist University) (in Chinese) (in English)
alpinum is distributed only within the Daisetsu and Hidaka Mountains, both on the island of Hokkaido.
This plant is not known to be farmed, and has been harvested from wild colonies by poachers, but probably not by seekers of starch sources, but by wildflower enthusiasts or traffickers.
However, Croucher's plant is now regarded as a different species, Dudleya pulverulenta, so Moore's name is illegitimate for the species he described, and the correct name is Echeveria desmetiana.
To germinate, the seed must be scattered thinly on top of potting mix, as they require light to germinate.
Allium angulosum, the mouse garlic, is a species of garlic native to a wide region of central Europe and northern Asia, from France and Italy to Siberia and Kazakhstan.
Naturally occurring plants have been used as "sentinel plants" by avocado and citrus growers to help indicate areas that are free of frost and suitable for their orchards in Southern California.
It can be at risk from leaf spots, rot or botrytis, and could be attacked by thrips, sawfly, aphids, and slugs or snails.
It is extremely hardy, tolerating temperatures as low as −50 °F (−45 °C) or lower, but grows poorly where summers are hot.
The single umbrella-shaped leaves grow on an erect stem that usually stands 12–24 inches (300–610 mm), but with height varying with species.
Distribution There are 18 occurrences of the Arctostaphylos morroensis plant, and it is abundant in some local areas.
In some ways the appearance is similar to other low plants of the rose family such as Fragaria (strawberries) or Potentilla indica (Indian strawberry), but it lacks runners and has more rounded leaves.
In August the same year Rio Tinto announced a partnership with Chilean state-owned ENAMI to carry out the lithium project Salares Altoandinos in Atacama Region.
A year later, United Wholesale Mortgage filed a lawsuit against America’s MoneyLine for continuing to do business with Rocket Mortgage in breach of its agreement; America's MoneyLine filed a countersuit against the company shortly after.
is an American automotive and technology company that manufactures electric vehicles and supplies advanced electric vehicle powertrain systems.
FirstRand Bank has three major divisions which are separately branded: First National Bank is the retail and commercial bank division of FirstRand Bank.
A 2022 Federated Farmers survey found 23% of respondents reported declining landline service, mostly on copper, while 20% used satellite broadband and nearly a third accessed landlines via VoIP.
The case seeks to require Beachbody to pay its independent distributors ("coaches") up to four years’ worth of unpaid wages and business expenses if they are deemed employees.
Lonza intends to focus on its core business as a contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO).
Marsden B had been mothballed since it was completed in 1978 due to rising oil prices following the 1973 oil crisis and there being cheaper alternatives available.
The company has three fulfillment centers around the country in New Jersey, Nevada, and Texas, which allow orders to be delivered within two days.
Sponsorship Optimal Payments was the official sponsor of Crystal Palace Football Club for the 2014/15 and 2015/16 seasons, with the front of the team's shirts displaying Neteller's logo.
A DLC is somewhat like a joint venture, but the two parties share everything they own, not just a single project; in that sense, a DLC is similar to a general partnership between publicly held corporations.
When gold was discovered on the Witwatersrand, the bank expanded northwards and on 11 October 1886 the bank started doing business in a tent at Ferreira's Camp (later to be called Johannesburg), thus becoming the first bank to open a branch on the Witwatersrand gold fields.
In December 2021, Hagerty went public by merging with Aldel Financial, a SPAC, under the symbol HGTY.
P&O Cruises P&O Cruises was originally a subsidiary of the British shipping company P&O and was founded in 1977.
HDBaseT is complementary to standards such as HDMI, and it is an alternative to radio frequency, coaxial cable, composite video, S-Video, SCART, component video, D-Terminal, or VGA.
PaysafeCard and PaysafeCash are payment methods that allow customers to make payments online without the use of a bank account or credit card information.
Securities and Exchange Commission for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in a bribery scheme in South Africa.
The arrangement allowed hosts to conveniently withdraw their earnings using their prepaid Payoneer debit cards.
Megacap stocks peaked over trillion-dollars Megacap stocks over $200 billion Mega cap stocks that are over $200 billion in the second quarter of 2023.
In January 2023, Canadian financial services company Nuvei agreed to buy Paya in an all-cash deal worth around US$1.3 billion.
Additionally, John Wilkerson, a political science professor at the University of Washington, criticises FiscalNote for placing importance onto whether individual bills move forward, rather the policies behind them.
The company's inaugural loan program was a pilot at Stanford; for this pilot program, 40 alumni loaned about $2 million to approximately 100 students, for an average of $20,000 per student.
Delhaize Group's operations are located primarily in the United States (Food Lion LLC, Hannaford Brothers Company) and Belgium.
Acquisitions June 1, 2017: Publons, a platform for researchers to share recognition for peer review.
The platform gained popularity early in the COVID-19 pandemic with more than half a million new subscribers at that time.
Financial struggles In late 2015, the company said that part of Faraday Future's revenue stream was expected to come from alternative sources, with the anticipated revenue structure closer to that of the smartphone than to that of standard automobile sales.
In 2020, Forward AM, BASF’s brand for high-performance materials and services for 3D printing, partnered with Shapeways to offer customers the ability to order 3D-printed items online made with Forward AM material.
It is designing the Horizon Cavorite X7 as a hybrid-electric 6-passenger aircraft that has electric fans for vertical takeoff and landing and a turboprop engine for forward flight.
The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) protects individuals against discrimination based on genetic information by employers and health insurers in most situations.
In addition, the software, designed and developed by Enterprise Logic Systems, was also innovative in that it allowed RedBox to remotely monitor and manage inventory at all kiosks throughout the country.
Despite these concerns, 23andMe's informed consent practices have been approved by an institutional review board.
Launched on May 5, 2010, by founder Will Francis, its acquisition by Redwire was announced on October 29, 2020.
It launched in November 2012 in Lebanon, providing unlimited Arabic and international music to stream and download for offline mode.
Under Jesus' tenure, Sporting won the Portuguese Super Cup for the eighth time, against back-to-back champions Benfica.
As a result, shares of Noah declined by over 25% in that week as critics accused the company of failing to conduct proper due diligence.
In June 2011, Gottesman pitched the idea at Startup Weekend in Seattle, Washington; He subsequently co-founded the company with Philip Kimmey.
In 2016, Boxed was financed by $132 million in funding by investors including GGV Capital and DST Global.
In business and investing the market capitalization term megacap stock is also referred to as mega-cap in the United States.
The company additionally closed 82 clinics while opening 35 in what was described as a consolidation effort.
In September 2018, the Getty family announced it would acquire a majority stake in the company from The Carlyle Group.
Wang, at 29 years old, founded the company after noticing an opportunity presented by the shift in Japanese companies from NiCd to high-value nickel–metal hydride (NiMH) and lithium-ion (Li-ion) batteries while he was working as a vice supervisor at the Beijing Nonferrous Research Institute.
With 16 seconds left, Bart Starr's touchdown on a quarterback sneak brought the Packers a 21–17 victory and their still unequaled third straight NFL Championship.
History 2018–2020: Under ICE ownership In August 2018, Intercontinental Exchange formed Bakkt in partnership with Boston Consulting Group (BCG), Microsoft, Starbucks, and others to create a software platform to manage digital assets.
Market liquidity: Cross-listings on deeper and more liquid equity markets could lead to an increase in the liquidity of the stock and a decrease in the cost of capital.
Shamrock thought that Razorclaw Brian Foster might still be offered a stay in the IFL but will join a different team due to his successful 2007 season and his entrance into the 2007 GP.
In April 2019, with the likelihood of the upcoming withdrawal of the United Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU), the so-called "Brexit", Paysafe Group announced their plans to prevent any negative effects for their users and merchants.
This is divided by the cell volume to get the volumetric energy density of 844 Wh/L or by the cell mass to get the gravimetric energy density (also called specific energy) of 301 Wh/kg.
Animal care made up 16% of the group's overall earnings in 2014, but has grown rapidly to make up 20% of overall earnings in 2023.
Being small, they are also less financially stable than larger companies, and are more likely to become bankrupt.
History Investec was founded as a small leasing and financing company in 1974 in Johannesburg, South Africa, by Larry Nestadt, Errol Grolman and Ian Kantor.
The deal valued Swvl at $1.5 billion, making it the largest Middle East–based unicorn to go public on the Nasdaq.
This was granted by South Africa's Prudential Authority in 2024, whereafter digital-only OM Bank was formed as a subsidiary of Old Mutual, under Section 16 of the Banks Act.
As a result of the merger, QuantumScape received $1 billion in financing, from investors including Volkswagen and the Qatar Investment Authority.
During the tournament, Skillz raised over $120,000 for the organization, including participants from 38 states as well as over 60 countries.
UWM underwrites loans for independent brokers, and as of 2024 is the largest mortgage lender in the United States.
In 1958, this kelly green was replaced by a darker hunter green; it and athletic gold have served as the team colors since.
On March 1, 2022, RCI announced Tootsie's was one of the first of RCI's subsidiaries to accept Bitcoin as payment.
On at least one occasion a member of one of these Lazio fan groups was attacked by neo-fascist ultras .
Subsequently, both CEO Steve Burns and CFO Julio Rodriguez resigned from their positions on June 14.
In January 2025, MP Materials announced that their Independence facility in Fort Worth, Texas has commenced neodymium and praseodymium (NdPr) metal production.
Divestments November 2020: Clarivate sold its Techstreet division to a for-profit subsidiary of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
The rebranding reflects Barrick’s evolution from a gold-focused company to a diversified mining enterprise with a growing copper portfolio.
AFC AJax NV own 13% of the new stadium, which includes a training facility Sportpark De Toekomst, itself with a capacity of 5,000.
Rover was founded in 2011 in Seattle and was formally incorporated under the name A Place for Rover, Inc.
In the late 1920s, the Lanificio (wool mill) employed more than 700 workers, growing to more than 1,000 in the late 1930s.
A spokesperson for Cellebrite said that Cellebrite stopped selling to Myanmar in 2018 and that BlackBag had not sold to Myanmar after being acquired by Cellebrite in 2020.
Anghami was founded by Eddy Maroun, and Elie Habib in Lebanon, launched initially as a mobile only app with the slogan "The idea is that everywhere you go, you’ll find your music".
In December 2024, construction was completed on the second crossborder bridge in Laredo–Nuevo Laredo, which ended the bottleneck created by the previous single track bridge.
History Yancoal was established in 2004 with the acquisition of the Austar coal mine in the Hunter Valley.
They had been observing the test from behind a chain-link fence that offered no protection from the shrapnel and debris when the tank exploded.
In August 2017, ironSource was reported to be "in advanced talks" to be bought for $1.8 billion by a consortium of investment funds.
is a publicly traded company headquartered in Lindsay, Ontario, which is developing a hybrid eVTOL aircraft for regional air mobility.
In June 2020, Skillz hosted "Gaming for Good" tournaments to raise money for NAACP Empowerment Programs and used in the charity's mission to get equal rights and put a stop to racism.
He became the majority shareholder of the Hochdorf Group by converting three quarters of his mandatory convertible bonds.
In May 2020, Moderna struck a manufacturing deal with Lonza to produce its (mRNA-1273) COVID-19 vaccine active ingredient while expanding sterile production and fill-finish activities to 500 million doses starting in 2021.
Former operations Alliance Trust Savings purchased Stocktrade from Brewin Dolphin in 2015 and sold it to Embark Group in 2019.
After the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, on March 11, 2022, Clarivate, which has an office in Odesa, Ukraine announced that it would cease all commercial activity in Russia.
In March 2021, Chorus retired a first trial batch of 28 copper cabinets, in densely populated, urban areas where the majority of customers have moved on to the fibre network.
Kennedy International Airport, with a car taking riders to a heliport and a helicopter then taking riders to the airport.
The new corporation would remain headquartered in both Zurich, Switzerland and Västerås, Sweden, with each parent company holding 50 percent.
Bakkt Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia and New York City, provides a software as a service (SaaS) and API platform for owning and trading cryptocurrency.
Additionally, SRS offers business-to-business IT and electronic equipment asset management and recovery service that operates across a global network.
The VA6000 uses the principle of multi-format aggregation over a single unshielded twisted pair cable with a length of up to 15 meters.
Curtis manufactured primarily key blanks and key cutting machines, with a focus on car dealerships and "home centers".
It also introduced the Velarray H800, a solid-state sensor based on a micro-lidar array architecture, and the Velarray M1600, a solid-state sensor for autonomous mobile robots and last-mile delivery systems.
The company provides online payments processing as well as products for face-to-face and telephone payments.
The team went undefeated at home for the first time since the 2011 season; they led the league in scoring, with 486 points.
In December 2020, the company announced an original series focusing on primatologist Jane Goodall called Rescued Chimpanzees of the Congo with Jane Goodall.
In the offseason, however, Wolf suddenly announced his own resignation as general manager to take effect after the April 2001 draft.
In October 2024, Rio Tinto announced it would buy Arcadium Lithium for US$6.7 billion, in an all-cash deal for US$5.85 per each Arcadium Lithium share.
Mourinho then secured an unprecedented treble for Porto by winning the Taça de Portugal final against his previous club.
The purpose-built electric vehicles have been co-developed by Arrival and UPS in order to meet UPS's exact specifications, including the latest advanced control and safety features.
It acquired outright the TagWorks company, which made automated, self-service pet tag engraving machines, in March 2011.
is an American manufacturing company based in North Andover, Massachusetts, that makes valve products for plumbing and heating, such as water pressure regulators and other valves.
The Shareholders' Association also voiced concerns about the implications of the gib shortage for Fletcher's finances and reputation.
The second phase of construction began in late 2021 to increase production capacity from 34,000 to 90,000 vehicles a year.
2020 In January 2020, WeWork began phasing out free beer at all North American co-working locations and announced plans for a slower growth rate.
The name Cembra is derived from the Latin name for the Swiss stone pine pinus cembra and symbolizes the brand values of Cembra.
The Cavorite 7 uses 5 battery-powered vertical lift fans in each of two wings along with 2 fans in the nose canards.
For its first ten years, Joby operated in stealth mode, sometimes leading to skepticism of the company's claims.
In July 2022, SWVL announced that its planned acquisition of a UK-based smart bus company, Zeelo, had been dropped.
Thomas Hitzlsperger, a retired German footballer who played for Lazio in 2010, related in his autobiography, Mutproben, that the far-right and fascist fans in Lazio were part of his decision to leave the club less than six months after joining the team.
EBOS Group also holds a number of animal care subsidiaries, such as Black Hawk Premium Pet Care, which was acquired for A$57.8 million in 2014.
Five contracting activities had reduced to less than 30% of group business with the major contributors being cement, tyres and transport.
The 2023 Telecommunications Monitoring Report showed rural satellite connections tripled to 34,000 (14% market share), putting New Zealand at the top of the OECD for satellite use per capita.
It also launched Coffee or Die Magazine, an online news and lifestyle publication that reports on military, veteran, law enforcement, and coffee topics.
On July 2, 2020, Velodyne Lidar merged with Graf Industrial Corp., a special-purpose acquisition company, to become a publicly traded company.
It has since expanded to Wuxi and Kunming, with 250 swapping stations in China as of September 2022.
Future generation developments Castle Hill Genesis Energy has resource consents for a wind farm at Castle Hill, 20 km north-east of Masterton in the northern Wairarapa.
In the 2017 Coppa Italia final, Juventus won their 12th Coppa Italia title in a 2–0 win over Lazio, becoming the first team to win three consecutive titles.
23andMe Research Institute is an American personal genomics and biotechnology nonprofit public benefit company based in Palo Alto, California.
History Hagerty was launched in 1984 by Frank and Louise Hagerty after they could not find good insurance coverage for their wooden boats.
Eight years later, on 3 May 2004, Geovanni's winning goal for Benfica in the 87th minute at Alvalade caused a pitch invasion by Sporting fans.
Velodyne’s sensors have a range of up to 300 meters and can be used for object detection without requiring additional sensor fusion.
As of January 2025, they are facing a class-action lawsuit that alleges the company "shared the personal information of patients with Meta Platforms Inc.
During the COVID-19 state of emergency, the two companies partnered to outfit a fleet of robots with OS1-64 lidar sensors.
Under this contract, the company is responsible for all curb-side recycling material, including all plastic, glass and metal on behalf of the City of New York.
Maccs software operates in over 45 countries and manages theatrical distribution for over 100 film distributors.
The original Chief Executive was Mark Ratcliffe, with his executive team including Ewen Powell (CIO), Nick Woodward (Customer Services), Andrew Carroll (CFO), Ed Beattie (Property & Network Operations), Sara Broadhurst (Human Resources).
The entire flight lasted approximately one hour, taking off and landing at Spaceport America facility near Truth or Consequences, New Mexico.
In 2006, the club moved to a building that formerly housed a BJ's distribution center in Miami Gardens.
In November 2020, the United States Department of Defense awarded MP Materials $9.6 million as part of a government effort to increase domestic production of rare earth materials.
In 2005, Delhaize Group completed the acquisition of the Belgian supermarket chain Cash Fresh for 118.6 million euros.
Until 1962 the British bank was formally known as the Standard Bank of South Africa, although by then its operations spread across Africa.
Other products transported by CPKC from Canada to Mexico include liquid petroleum gas, refined fuels and plastics.
Investec is an Anglo-South African international banking and wealth management group, founded in Johannesburg, South Africa.
"The neighborhoods where most of the social-media complaints are coming out of are not even the neighborhoods that have significant crime problems, which tend to be our communities of color in the south part of the city.
Small companies generally are not able to secure the best (prime) borrowing rates and wield reduced power, including a smaller market share.
2005 – One of the founders of the LLC First Ukrainian Bureau of Credit Story, founded by the Association of Ukrainian Banks.
It builds high-resolution, digital 3D lidar sensors for use in autonomous vehicles, industrial, robotics, drones, mapping, defense, and security systems.
The company has also been involved in philanthropic activities for National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, when it took delivery of a pink King Air 350i, and Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month.
After initially dominating the trans-Atlantic route, the need for new capital led to the company being re-organised as the Cunard Steamship Company Ltd in 1879.
The deal would have created a gold mining company with a market value of about $42 billion that some said would be a long-overdue restructuring of the global gold industry.
Hillman Solutions is an American hardware manufacturing, distribution and consumer fabrication services company.
As of 2018, Rio Tinto's fleet of 80 autonomous Komatsu vehicles had moved over 1 billion tonnes of ore and waste material in Western Australia's Pilbara region.
Manchester United was the highest-earning football club in the world for 2016–17, with an annual revenue of €676.3 million, and the world's second-most-valuable football club in 2024, valued at £6.55 billion ($5.22 billion).
The 2019 contract was for "universal forensic extraction devices (UFED), accessories licenses, training and support services" for a year, with an option to extend for up to five years.
In October 2024, the company completed the acquisition of the Genentech biologics manufacturing site in Vacaville, California, from Roche.
It has ten major products such as vehicle thermal management, vehicle wiring harness, smart cockpit, advanced driver-assistance system (ADAS), passive safety components, braking system, suspension and exhaust, body control, steering system, and body accessories.
See also List of on-demand streaming music services References External links Official website Archived 2022-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
In June 2020, Curiosity Stream signed a partnership with wildlife production company Doclights to add 50 original nature documentaries to SVOD and pay TV platforms.
Economic key figures In addition to its headquarters in Niederweningen and Corporate Center at Zurich Airport, Bucher Industries AG is represented by 22 Group companies at over 50 locations worldwide.
A slight improvement in initial trading performance by December suggested a potential stabilization, with IPOs closing slightly above their expected values, offering a hopeful outlook for 2024.
Under Atkinson, Manchester United won the FA Cup in 1983 and 1985 and beat rivals Liverpool to win the 1983 Charity Shield.
On August 1, 2019, Hostess announced that it was selling Superior Cake Products to Sara Lee Frozen Bakery for $65 million.
In April 2025, Payoneer acquired Easylink Payment Co., a Chinese online payment services provider, for an undisclosed sum.
in Reggio Emilia, Italy, Beringer Hydraulik based in Neuheim (1996), and Hydrotechnik in Frutigen (1997).
Parrot purchased shares in 2015 in startups specialized in the drones industry: Airinov, EOS Innovation, Micasense and Iconem.
Anghami (Arabic: أنغامي ʾanġāmī [ʔanˈɣaːmi], "melodic"/"my melodies") is the first legal music streaming platform and digital distribution company in the Arab world.
The company went public in 2022 with its merger with Nasdaq-listed special-purpose acquisition company Poema Global.
In August 2022, Matterport launched a third camera named 'Pro3' as an upgrade to the 'Pro 2' camera, which features a LiDAR sensor.
History In the 1980s, the New Zealand Electricity Department (NZED) (a government department) controlled and operated almost all New Zealand electricity generation and operated the electricity transmission grid.
Awards Miami New Times – Best Strip Club 2006 Miami New Times – Best Strip Club Miami 2015 Miami New Times – Best Strip Club Miami 2019 See also List of strip clubs References External links Tootsies Cabaret website
A savings division was established by Alliance Trust in 1986, offering pensions and other investment products.
The company was formed on June 1, 2020, by the private equity firm AE Industrial Partners, through the combination of its portfolio companies Adcole Space and Deep Space Systems.
However, after a horrific start to the 2013–14 Danish Superliga season, FCK fired manager Ariël Jacobs, rehiring Ståle Solbakken as his replacement.
The club finished 12th out of 18 teams, a respectable result for a newly relocated and rebranded club.
On 11 May 2021, Ginkgo Bioworks announced plans of going public through a merger with SPAC Soaring Eagle at a $17.5 billion valuation.
Murray & Roberts obtained its own shareholder approval to buy the remaining 38.4% of the shares in Clough for about R4bn.
At the beginning of 2024, Volkswagen and QuantumScape presented a battery prototype in a press release based on the technologies developed by QuantumScape, which has 1000 charging cycles with only 5% capacity loss and an energy density that is at least a third higher.
Prices are subject to local market conditions, as well as FX fluctuations and are not kept in perfect parity between markets.
Old Mutual was founded in South Africa by John Fairbairn in 1845 and was demutualised and listed on the London Stock Exchange and other stock exchanges in 1999.
Listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange, the company generated sales of 3.16 billion Swiss francs in 2024 and employed 14,107 people.
However, they do generally have more growth potential and over time have greater but more volatile expected returns.
Greenpeace staged a nine-day occupation of the site in 2005, and after the Northland Regional Council granted consent, appealed to both the Environment Court and High Court, eventually overturning the consent.
A third motive is the reduction of investor flow-back, which would depress the price of the stock of one of the firms in their own market if the merger route were used instead.
On February 7, 2022, Velodyne’s stock price surged more than 50% after Amazon agreed to acquire 40 million shares of the company’s stock as an investment.
CPKC and Canadian National locked out workers in Canada from August 22 to 26, 2024, after the companies and the Teamsters Canada Rail Conference failed to reach a labor agreement.
One year later, in March 2015, it was announced that Rover raised a $25 million funding round led by Technology Crossover Ventures.
Ranked the two biggest clubs in England by France Football magazine based on metrics such as fanbase and historical importance, matches between Manchester United and Liverpool are considered to be the most famous fixture in English football and one of the biggest rivalries in the football world.
It was started in 2006 by Dennis Mehiel, and primarily produces corrugated industrial packaging, with manufacturing facilities in seven states.
These steps were part of the company's cost-cutting plan, important because the "pause in guest operations continues to have a material negative impact on all aspects of the company's business, including the company's liquidity, financial position and results of operations".
Cross-listing is especially common for companies that started out in a small market but grew into a larger market.
The company filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in July 2024, and Shapeways was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
On April 21, 2021, Gogoro announced a strategic partnership with the world's top two-wheel vehicle maker, Hero MotoCorp, to roll out its Gogoro Network battery swapping in India.
Sanlam, the subsidiary, later became the spearhead of the operation, while Santam remained focused on short-term insurance.
In 2008, First Quantum acquired Toronto-based Scandinavian Minerals Ltd developing the Kevitsa mine in Lapland, northern Finland.
The strategy would entail the separation of its four businesses – Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Nedbank, UK-based Old Mutual Wealth and Boston-based Old Mutual Asset Management (OMAM) – into standalone entities.
In August 2021, Anghami announced plans to launch a new hybrid entertainment venue named the Anghami Lab in multiple cities worldwide, including Dubai, Riyadh, Jeddah, Cairo, Beirut, London, New York and Los Angeles.
On 28 November 2023, the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court of Justice declared that Law 406 20 October 2023, which approves the mining concession contract entered into between the State and Sociedad Minera Panamá, S.A.
In July 2016, Hostess announced it would be going public in an offering valuing the company at $2.3 billion.
The technology platform division generates income via Galileo's customer services, including platform access and card management services, offered in form of APIs.
The Trusts later moved into fixed income investing in the 1920s and 30s, before adding significant quantities of shares to their portfolios in the late 1950s.
Representatives of the American Civil Liberties Union and the Electronic Frontier Foundation expressed concerns about the lack of transparency associated with Nextdoor's use of non-disclosure agreements.
In the same year, Standard Bank reported it had 816,000 business and commercial banking clients, across 16 countries.
On November 2, 2018, KapStone itself was acquired by rival pulp and paper company, WestRock Company.
In addition, the company offers AI features integrated directly into its platform such as Smart AI Reviews, AI-summarized reviews from trusted guests, and Smart AI Offer Summaries, AI-summarized offer descriptions.
EBOS Dental and Surgical Supplies was listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange in 1967 and formally rebranded as EBOS Group Limited in 1986.
The certification authority – an international company TÜV Rheinland Group (LLC TÜV Rheinland Ukraine, www.tuv.com.ua).
Two years later, on 28 May 1952, the stadium was inaugurated with a ceremony, featuring the presence of the President of the Republic Francisco Craveiro Lopes, and a match against Benfica, which Porto lost 2–8.
The camps for this season were as follows: 1 Antonio Inoki was originally going to be the Tokyo Sabres' coach and mentor but has since been dropped by the IFL.
BYD also operates an electric bus manufacturing plant in Lancaster, California, near Los Angeles, since 2014.
In September 2025, Investec announced that it had become one of the first major banks in South Africa to enter the electricity market, after the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) granted it a trading license.
One year later, the Indian company Sterling Fluid Technologies was acquired and integrated into the Bucher Hydraulics division.
The group's areas of expertise include insurance (life and general), financial planning, retirement annuities, trusts, wills, short-term insurance, asset management, risk management, capital market activities, investment and wealth.
The VSS Unity was carried to 44,000 feet by the jet powered launch aircraft Mothership Eve, where it was released to reach its suborbital altitude over New Mexico.
Foxconn's plan was to use the factory as the production hub for the proposed Fisker PEAR electric vehicle.
First Quantum took out an action against the DRC government in the International Chamber of Commerce International Court of Arbitration.
In 2019, Rover formally expanded its services to include cat care, and in 2024 acquired Cat in a Flat, a cat-sitting service marketplace based in London.
Yancoal produced 13.9 million tonnes (31 billion pounds) of run-of-mine coal (an increase from the previous quarter’s 8.3 million tonnes or 18 billion pounds) during the June 2024 quarter with 8.6 million tonnes (19 billion pounds).
They are also used to eliminate both free chlorine and the more stable form, chloramine, from water solutions (e.g., drinking water from municipal sources).
This process can also give an added freshness and creaminess to the wine, and improve color and clarity.
In 1849 Frank, with William Carter and George Mason, built a ferry for crossing the Murray at Wellington.
Enologix's metrics have been correlated with market performance metrics, including 100-points critics' scores.
He was also active in California where he and fellow Austrian Manfred Krankl (who runs the Sine Qua Non winery) produced sweet wines under the label Mr.
There is the risk of valuable aromatic molecules being precipitated out along with the less desirable matter.
CNBC-18 (a TV channel) made a short story for the International Women's Day 2019 for special telecast.
The popularity of Côte-Rôtie has led to New World interpretations of this blend, most notably Australian Shiraz-Viognier blends, which are also produced by co-fermentation.
The process of stirring the lees or bâttonage can help prevent a thick layer of lees forming and promote a smoother autolysis.
Books Curso de vinos latinoamericanos y Curso de vinos españoles, 1992, in collaboration with José Antonio Sáez Illobre.
History The natural occurrence of fermentation means it was probably first observed long ago by humans.
Potts was born in Hounslow, England, the second child (their daughter Anne was born on 28 November 1812) of Elizabeth (who died before 1820) and Lawrence Potts (ca.1760 – 9 June 1845), a linen draper and later a bookseller.
Reference in rabbinic literature Adam in rabbinic literature enjoys a seudat nissuin with his wife Eve.
Titles and distinctions Knight of the National Order of Agricultural Merit Knight of Merit of the Italian Republic Bibliography Léo Drouyn, La Guyenne militaire, 2 vol, Bordeaux, 1865, Laffitte reprints, Marseille, 1977, p.
In the format of the chorale cantata cycle, an unknown librettist retained only the words of selected stanzas, here the first two and the last for movements 1, 2 and 6, but reworked the ideas of the other stanzas.
Corison Winery makes Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc, as well as a tiny amount of Gewürztraminer, Reisling and Rosé, and produces 3,000 cases a year.
John was the oldest of four siblings, and his mother and father Adolph had three other sons as well: Dolph, George, and Vernon.
In the second quarter are about 600 Metawileh in the third, 400 United Greeks.' In 1881, the PEF's Survey of Western Palestine (SWP) described it: "A large village of well-built houses, whose inhabitants are partly Christians, partly Moslems.
The cylinder rotates during the process to help homogenize the pressure that is placed on the grapes.
The treatment consists of heating the grapes with steam almost to boiling and then submitting them to a strong vacuum.
Lees stirring Also known as bâttonage, A process associated with sur lie aging where the lees are stirred up to extract flavor and other sensory components into the wine and to avoid reductive conditions that may contribute to various wine faults.
"Just the existence of stone vessels is not enough to prove that this is a biblical site." Several stone jars of the type described by the Gospel of John were found for instance in Jerusalem: "At least six of them stood in the basement kitchen of the [1st-century CE] 'Burnt house'.
An excessive concentration in the wort is not desirable however, as this may cause the production of a significant quantity of fusel alcohols, or spoilage of the finished beer by other organisms.
Champagne in bottles of 375 ml, 750 ml and 1.5 liters must be produced with the traditional method, but smaller and larger bottles are usually produced with the transfer method.
He afterwards would travel frequently to sell the family's wine, but would return to Mendocino County in the fall for the harvest.
The wines are sometimes obscure from remaining lees (except those which have been clarified by disgorging).
The estates were quickly sold to merchant Gabriel Dutoit but it was a great-grandson, Gideon Joubert, who bought him in 1915.
The monks preferred biblical banquet scenes because they desired the impression of dining with Christ.
According to journal reports, Mega Purple is used by almost every low- to moderate-value wine producer (below US$20 per 750 ml bottle) to help standardize the bottled product ensuring a more uniform product.
Yeast are unable to reproduce in an environment with 16-18% ABV; in an environment with multiple stressors the fermentation could get stuck even before the alcohol level reaches that point.
Over the years he was involved in a variety of businesses including real estate, travel, promotion and computers.
Champagne Charlie In 1852, Charles Heidsieck first visited the United States and toured the New England area and New York State.
Back has brought a number of new grape varietals to South Africa and is one of the country's original Rhône Rangers.
A portion of selected unfermented must may be kept as Süssreserve, to be added as a sweetening component before bottling.
It was a financial setback, as Haraszthy had expended large sums of money in gathering the vines and bringing them back to California.
Malolactic fermentation can aid in making a wine "microbiologically stable" in that the lactic acid bacteria consume many of the leftover nutrients that other spoilage microbes could use to develop wine faults.
However, the term does also apply to procedures that could be described as a second and distinct fermentation period.
Honours Oatley was awarded the British Empire Medal in 1984, for his service to the coffee industry in Papua New Guinea.
Charles-Henri was the nephew of Florens-Louis Heidsieck, co-founder of the Champagne house that eventually became Piper-Heidsieck, and cousin of Henri-Louis Walbaum and Pierre Auguste Heidsieck who founded the house that eventually became known as Heidsieck & Co Monopole.
Chaptalization is, however, prohibited in Argentina, Australia, California, Italy, Portugal, Spain and South Africa.
From 1998 until 2019, Mijares served as the coordinator and director of the Camps Guide to the Best Wines in Spain.
In wine, all 21 amino acids can be found in trace amounts with arginine, proline and glutamine being the most abundant.
They could observe the fermentation process which was often described as "boiling", "seething" or the wine being "troubled" due to release of carbon dioxide that gave the wine a frothy, bubbling appearance.
After having thrown five one-hitters for the Mets, including two games in which no-hit bids were broken up in the ninth inning, Seaver recorded a 4–0 no-hitter for the Reds in 1978 against the St.
The bladders, once removed from the fish, processed, and dried, are formed into various shapes for use.
At the Writers' Society, Rebreanu's motion was defeated after a clash of opinions, which almost resulted in the resignation of Society President Nicolae M.
Species of Lactobacillus that have been isolated from wine and grape must samples across the globe include L.
His surname is occasionally spelled "Bohune" or "Boone" and he is known for experimenting with some of Virginia's indigenous plants and minerals.
He sold most of his stake in Parducci Winer Cellars in 1973 when it was acquired by Teachers Managment Corporation, an investment group in Newport Beach.
References External links Official site of Château de Fargues http://www.lous-seurrots.com/ http://www.domaines-uza.fr/ http://www.europe1.fr/emissions/au-coeur-de-l-histoire/acdh-lintegrale-14112016-le-chateau-dyquem-2900117
242) being highly active against typical beverage spoiling microorganisms like yeast, bacteria, or mould.
This was a fact that led to considerable resentment on the part of the rebel free burghers, as they regarded Hattingh as a traitor to their cause as a result of it.
Free-run versus pressed juice For as long as presses have been used, winemakers have been aware of the different color, body and aroma characteristics of wine made from the "free-run" juice compared to pressed juice.
Measurement units In France and many other countries, the grape must density is often recalculated to show potential alcohol, the percent alcohol content that would be the result if the must were fermented to a completely dry wine.
The coming of Jesus' "hour" (verse 4) is also referred to in John 7:6, 30 and 8:20, meaning the hour of his glorification and his return to his father.
If both alcoholic and malolactic fermentation have run to completion, and neither excessive oxygen nor Brettanomyces yeast are present, this ought to cause no problems; modern hygiene has largely eliminated spoilage by bacteria such as acetobacter, which turns wine into vinegar.
From 1788 to 1791 the poet Robert Burns spent many an evening at Bacon's inn whilst travelling on his Excise duties.
DMDC is also used to stabilize non-alcoholic beverages such as carbonated or non-carbonated juice beverages, isotonic sports beverages, iced teas and flavored waters.
It is celebrated as a professional holiday by wine growers, falconers, gardeners, barrel-makers and innkeepers.
They aid in destroying the large polysaccharide molecule named pectin, which otherwise causes haze in fruit wines and juices.
bottom-right-quarter – a barefoot wine-servant pours the new, red wine into a serving ewer, from a large, ornate oenochoe, which earlier had been filled with water.
Career Before venturing into wine, Ukkonika was an employee of Ministry of finance, where she worked for 37 years.
Calibration is usually based on the ICUMSA tables, but the user of an electronic refractometer should verify this.
Wines Thackrey produced his first vintage in 1981, a Merlot/Cabernet Sauvignon blend named Aquila, which had an initial production of 190 cases (17 hl).
The richly-dressed bride wears red, and has her hair displayed at full-length, something that respectable women rarely did in public, except at weddings.
Champagne producers sometimes employ chaptalization in their winemaking when the wine is still in the form of must.
Although originally made exclusively from sturgeon, especially beluga, in 1795 an invention by William Murdoch facilitated a cheap substitute using cod.
In these instances the Military or College Chaplains can often provide independent preparation but the presiding minister needs to coordinate the process.
This autolysis of the cell provides an available nitrogen source for the still-fermenting and viable yeast cells.
The Dutch offered him the opportunity to settle in the Huguenot refugee community of South Africa, winemakers on whom Dutch merchants relied to supply their customers with wine in the Indian Ocean.
Sheen further suggests that as Jesus arrived with additional guests, they may have contributed to the wines running short.
The Fort Bragg Advocate-News stated he worked to improve quality, while making the wine "accessible and affordable." He was the first Mendocino County winemaker to put a varietal on the label.
Ukkonika started making wine on a small scale in 2000 inspired by her deceased son Godwin Ukkonika who initiated the wine making concept in the family.
After graduating, Pospíšilová worked at the Research Institute for Viticulture in Bratislava and at the at the Plant Production Research Institute in Borovce near Piešťany.
Life in Hungary Both Ágoston and Károly Haraszthy owned estates in a part of southern Hungary called the Bácska, now a part of Serbia.
In the production of white wines, maceration is either avoided or allowed only in very limited manner in the form of a short amount of skin contact with the juice prior to pressing.
In some modern use, particularly in American English, the term is also used as a synonym for "winemaker".
In response to the results of these tests, a winemaker can decide on appropriate remedial action, for example the addition of more sulfur dioxide.
This allows chaptalization in cooler states such as Oregon, or in states such as Florida where the native grape (Muscadine) is naturally low in sugar.
Prevention Among the most common techniques employed to minimize the chances of a stuck fermentation are using a cultured yeast strain with a high alcohol and high temperature tolerance, coupled by diligent control of the fermentation temperature.
Catherine however was able to sell the glass tumbler for a shilling to a customer, who purchased it as a memento.
Because of Koshu's growing international recognition, Yamanashi was able to use Koshu to achieve the highest Japanese wine production of any prefecture.
Governo is a winemaking technique reportedly invented in Tuscany in the 14th century to help complete fermentation and stabilize the wine.
In Jewish eschatology, the messiah will hold a seudat nissuin with the righteous of every nation, called a Seudat Chiyat HaMatim, and they will feast on the cooked flesh of the Leviathan.
Clarification and stabilization may involve fining, filtration, centrifugation, flotation, refrigeration, pasteurization, and/or barrel maturation and racking.
He was the chief executive officer (CEO) of Moët-Hennessy and LVMH, and is now the CEO of Société des bains de mer de Monaco.
His imprisonment sparked an international incident between France and US over what became known as The Heidsieck Incident.
The duration of fermentation affects the quality; longer fermentation preserves the wine's aromas better and gives finer and more durable bubbles.
He sued the new corporate managers to prevent a 35-acre vineyard, which he stated had better-than-average grape yields, from being ripped out.
Awards 2023: Award of the Mayor of Pezinok for an active life connected with cultural events in Pezinok and in the field of winemaking References == External links ==
He was the first producer to plant Viognier vineyards in the country, and has the largest plantings of Mourvèdre.
Back is also the owner of The Goats do Roam Wine Company and The Spice Route Winery, which is a wine cellar in the Swartland region of the Western Cape.
His tasks included delivering letters by hand to other local businesses and to fill the company's inkwells.
Shareholders forced Haraszthy out of the Vinicultural Society in 1867 and replaced him with another manager, who tore out all of his layered vines.
With Boston-based Spanish importer Jorge Ordóñez, Kracher created a winery in Málaga, Spain, making dry and sweet muscat wines from old hillside vineyards.
Around that date, Constantin Angelescu, Romania's Minister of Public Instruction, imposed state censorship on Pensiunea.
Their new home housed expensive paintings including examples by Millais, Gainsborough, George Romney J.
(23 February 1959 – 5 December 2007, in Illmitz) was one of the most successful winemakers of Austria, and was known under the nickname "Luis".
The "bready" toasty notes associated with some of the greatest sparkling wines made are the result of sur lie aging.
In the late 19th century, during the Franco-Prussian War (1870–71), The Wedding Feast at Cana was stored in a box at Brest, in Brittany.
Thackrey's particular expertise was in early photography, exhibition of which the gallery was an internationally renowned pioneer in.
In one section of the book, Ramses discovers the beautiful Hilda, who is a painter, a muse, and the living artwork of Egon Schiele, and who ends up being eaten alive by her creator; before this happens, Hilda, Schiele and Ramses become entangled in a sadomasochistic ménage à trois.
It is a common misconception that Campden tablets can be used to halt the ferment process in wine before all the available sugars are converted by the yeast, hence controlling the amount of residual sweetness in the final product.
After a stellar season, in which he pitched and won a game in the national tournament with a grand slam, USC head coach Rod Dedeaux awarded him a scholarship.
Together with Peter Bittner and photographer Ján Štrba, they are the authors of three books: the first edition of Pezinok – bigbeatown with a compilation CD (2001), Koncerty mladosti ´76, ´77 – Československý Woodstock (2007), and the second edition of Pezinok – bigbeatown (2024).
Some wine journalists contend that chaptalization allows wine makers to sacrifice quality in favor of quantity by letting vines overproduce high yields of grapes that have not fully ripened.
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
Kracher was the recipient of several prizes from various sources for best Austrian wine or winery of the year, sweet wine maker of the year and such, including "Winemaker of the Year" by the London-based Wine Journal six times.
Part of the reasons the owners gave was because she was too short and they believed she could not work in the wine cellar.
He also served as chairman of the Rishon Lezion branch of the Association of colonies, branch chairman of the Association of Rishon Lezion, member of the Maccabi Eretz Israel, and was a member of an organization headquarters defense.
Baldwin was chairman of Peet's until 2001 when Peet's went public, and he became a director of the company.
He is also former coordinator of hobby and artistic activities of SZM local organization in Pezinok, high school teacher and municipal councillor.
Grape-treading was widespread in the history of winemaking, but with the introduction of industrial methods, it now survives mostly as a recreational or competitive activity at cultural festivals.
The major symbol of ancient Greek art in Damaskinos's works was the consistent use of ancient Greek Cretan meander patterns.
The guild's anti-Bonciu lobby included poet George Gregorian (who declared both detainees to be "pseudo-writers") and the formerly accused Eliade (who included himself among the opponents of "pornographic literature").
Most Christian churches, including the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, have adopted the New Julian calendar since 1968.
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops recognizes that long distance preparation is sometime necessary due to military service or otherwise.
A few grapes are crushed between the fingers and the must is dripped onto the glass of the refractometer.
His father Adolph founded Parducci Wine Cellars in Ukiah in 1933, and John became lead winemaker in 1944.
Even among press juice there are compositional difference between the various "fractions" of juice produced from initial pressing through subsequent (and usually harsher) pressing.
Robert Ian Oatley (11 June 1928 – 10 January 2016) was an Australian businessman, winemaker, yachtsman and philanthropist.
Excessive phenols in base wine result in partial oxidation, which impairs the flavor and aroma of the final product.
These compounds can be considered "volatile" like aldehydes, ethyl acetate, ester, fatty acids, fusel oils, hydrogen sulfide, ketones and mercaptans or "non-volatile" like glycerol, acetic acid and succinic acid.
In 1971, Seaver led the league in earned run average (1.76) and strikeouts (289 in 286 innings) while going 20–10.
Use in Loire In the case of Loire valley wines, the designation SGN usually denotes wines that are extra sweet, and produced by one of the region's so-called "sugar hunters".
ISBN 978-84-8476-318-5.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) (with José Antonio Sáez Illobr, first published in 1995e) Colección de Guías de vinos y bodegas.
McNab Ridge Winery In 1999, he purchased the former Zellerbach Winery to found McNab Ridge Winery near Ukiah.
No container is ever completely drained, so some of the earlier product always remains in each container.
Since the early 13th century, most copies and editions of the Bible present all but the shortest of these books with divisions into chapters.
In the case of great Chardonnay, such as Montrachet, this adds a toasty, nutty "hazelnut" quality and additional depth and complexity.
Despite ordering the ships to take different routes in hopes that at least one would make it past the blockade, both ships were intercepted and sunk with all cargo destroyed.
According to the Catholic Encyclopedia, a tradition dating back to the 8th century identifies Cana with the modern Arab town of Kafr Kanna, at the foot of the Nazareth range, about 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) northeast of Nazareth.
On 17 February 1848 Frank married Augusta Wenzel (1830 – 21 November 1871) Their children included: Ann "Annie" (1851 – c.
San Francisco and San Mateo While attending the legislature, Haraszthy began to buy real estate near Mission San Francisco de Asís (Mission Dolores) in San Francisco.
Some genera, such as Acetobacter, can oxidize ethanol to carbon dioxide and water using Krebs cycle enzymes.
Exceptional Mavrodafni vintages are released every 20 or 30 years: they are of minimal availability and expensive.
Unlike the German designation Trockenbeerenauslese (TBA), QGN is no official designation, but it could be thought of as the Alsatian equivalent of a high-grade TBA.
1860 (– 1 September 1935) of Blakiston on 6 June 1888; they remained at Bleasdale and ten of their children reached maturity.
Its name commemorates the event of the Wedding at Cana from the Gospel of John, thought by some Christians to have taken place on the site, during which Jesus performed his first miracle, by turning water into wine at the request or behest of Mary.
While stopping at Guadeloupe for water and supplies, the ship was attacked by Spanish warships and Bohun received a mortal wound.
Interpreted allegorically, the good news and hope implied by the story are in the words of the steward of the Feast when he tasted the good wine, "Everyone serves the good wine first, and then the inferior wine after the guests have become drunk.
He was married and had a son, Gerhard Kracher (born 1981), who at the time of Alois' death had been working in the family's wine business for a number of years.
He played for the New York Mets, Cincinnati Reds, Chicago White Sox, and Boston Red Sox from 1967 to 1986.
See also List of wine personalities References External links Sean Thackrey: wine-maker official site
Other wines include the Taurus Cline Vineyard Mourvèdre, Sirius Eaglepoint Ranch Mendocino County Petite Sirah and the Aquila Eaglepoint Ranch Mendocino County Sangiovese.
Setbacks during the American Civil War In 1861, Charles Heidsieck received news of the conflict breaking out in the United States Civil War.
Charles Heidsieck's imprisonment caused a diplomatic incident between the French and US government in what became known as the Heidsieck Incident.
The novel The Secret of Santa Vittoria and the film based on it, taking place in a wine-producing Italian town during WWII, include a grape treading scene which has a major role in the battle of wits between the townspeople and their German occupiers.
In this instance, he strictly followed the lines of Venetian painting exhibiting his superior craftsmanship as a painter capable of changing his style.
Biography Robert Oatley was born in the Sydney suburb of Mosman in 1928, the son of Geoffrey Oatley and Isabel "Jean" née Brown.
In later years A lack of coinage from the late 4th to early 5th centuries may indicate a decline in Khirbet Qana, but the town shows signs of expansion and growth during the Late Byzantine period (late 5th to 7th centuries).
Another potential cause is a combination of lack of oxygen and yeast nutrients found in the lipids suspended in grape solids.
Then he founded the village of Lamotte, before that of Bellingham, then in 1709 that of La Roque and a little later the domain of L'Ormarins, created by Jean Roy, another Huguenot from the Luberon and later bought by the billionaire Anton Rupert.
Any of these approaches has the potential to subtly or drastically affect the resulting flavor and quality of the wine.
The treatment consists of heating the grapes at 95 °C (203 °F) for several minutes with vapour and then submitting them to a strong vacuum.
The EU Scientific Committee on Food, the FDA in the United States and the JECFA of the WHO have confirmed the safe use in beverages.
Not much is known about Bohun's early life, but it is estimated that he was born in England between 1575 and 1585 and that he received his education at the University of Leyden in the Netherlands.
The 10,000 residents of Qana are primarily Shia although there is also a Melkite (Greek Catholic) Christian community in the village.
Instead of fire, a cooper may use steam to heat up the staves but this tends to impart less "toastiness" and complexity to the resulting wine.
Pospíšilová has developed 24 new varieties of grape that are grown in Slovakia, including Breslava, Děvín, Diamant, Dunaj, Helios, Hetera, Hron, Mars, Nitranka, Rimava, Rosa, Rubanka, Rudava, Torysa, and Váh.
Since the two fining agents act differently (on different haze-forming particles), they are not interchangeable, and some beers use both.
Galets roulés also serve to protect the vine and minimize soil erosion during the periods of strong winds that are known in the area as mistral.
In the French Baumé (Be° or Bé° for short) one Be° corresponds approximately to one percent alcohol.
Early life and education María Isabel Mijares was born in Mérida, where she had a "happy childhood" alongside her eight siblings.
The Israeli army claimed it was a mistake, stating that Hezbollah elements were located near the camp.
Secondary fermentation is a process commonly associated with winemaking, which entails a second period of fermentation in a different vessel than the one used to start the fermentation process.
However, Dominican scholar Jerome Murphy-O'Connor cautions that Cana is a very common name, with no known text offering any clue as to which of the dozen towns going by the name would be the correct one, and calls the common choice of Kafr Qanna near Nazareth "probably just a pious guess".
On rare occasions, the designation Quintessence de Grains Nobles (QGN) is seen for wines that significantly exceed the minimum requirements for SGN wines.
He built a modest home and began growing wheat and built "Travellers' Rest", a public house for the benefit of travellers on the way to the gold diggings, which he leased to one F.
Having termed himself an agnostic about terroir, he has also stated he is agnostic about global warming, adding, "The real story is a greater willingness to deal with cooler regions.
They, with father Lawrence and his second wife Elizabeth followed Frank to South Australia on the Fairfield, arriving in November 1840, though Elizabeth died on the voyage, on 8 October 1840.
Fellow archaeologist Shimon Gibson cast doubt on the value of such finds for identifying the town meant by John, since such vessels are not rare and it would be impossible to link a particular set of vessels to the miracle.
The instruments and lavish opulent clothing allow viewers the impression of the fashion trends of that era.
Heidsieck accepted the cotton as payment and attempted to smuggle the cotton out of the port in Mobile, Alabama with the use of two blockade runners.
Benefits Exposure to oxygen during production may improve wine, but the exposure must be limited: too much oxygen can lead to oxidation while too little can lead to reduction, either one leading to its associated wine faults.
In brewing and winemaking, free amino nitrogen (FAN) is a measure of the concentration of individual amino acids and small peptides (one to three units) which can be utilized by beer and wine yeast for cell growth and proliferation.
Another version of the story places the event at the Closeburn Kirk Bridge Inn where the landlady was Catherine Stewart Bacon's mother.
Vallejo warehouse fire A converted military bunker warehouse at Mare Island near Vallejo, California, was set ablaze by an arsonist on October 12, 2005, resulting in a loss of nearly 4,000 cases of Thackrey's wine.
Under French inheritance laws, vineyard holdings were often split until offspring owned no more than a single row of grapes, not enough to fill a barrel.
Baldwin served as director and founding chairman of the Technical Standards Committee of the Specialty Coffee Association of America; president of Association Scientifique Internationale pour le Café (ASIC); and chairman of the Coffee Quality Institute.
Winemakers began to use Enologix metrics to improve company performance without saying so to anyone.
Floral Terranes is a Long Island, New York, vintner that makes wines and ciders from foraged fruits.
463-014, 1988 Common Wine and Beer Finings Colloidal stabilisation of beer, The Brewer International, Jan 2002 Fining Agents for Wine Archived 2006-09-13 at the Wayback Machine, by J.R.
Modern Bleasdale In 1948 the brothers combined their inheritances into a company Bleasdale Vineyards Ltd.
In Bonciu's novels and his poetry, the sexual function is a tool of apparent liberation, man's only possible flight from existential despair.
Six years later, Thackrey, with Susan Thackrey and Cynthia Pritzker, opened the art gallery in San Francisco that became Thackrey & Robertson, by then in partnership with watercolorist Sally Robertson; the gallery remained operational until its closure in 1995.
The absence of oxygen in this anaerobic process allows the acetaldehyde to be eventually converted, by reduction, to ethanol.
Thackrey was uncertain what grape varieties were in the field blend, and vineyard tests by researchers at UC Davis were inconclusive.
At the time it showed a portrait and only when the overpainting was removed did the tempera painting of the wedding come to light.
Upon Bertrand's death on 19 December 1968, Alexandre took over management of d'Yquem until its takeover by LVMH in 1999.
Organic winemaking A style of winemaking using organically grown grapes and a minimum amount of chemical additives such as sulfur dioxide.
Nutritional needs of wine yeast In order to successfully complete a fermentation with minimum to no negative attributes being added to the wine, yeast needs to have the full assortment of its nutritional needs met.
Haraszthy, a legendary hunter, built a hunting lodge opposite his home, on a bluff in Roxbury overlooking the river.
Glăvan too sees an analogy between Sinidis' grim reflection on war and landscapes by "New Objectivity" master Otto Dix.
He is of the opinion that the majority of South African vineyards should be planted to more Mediterranean and Rhône style varietals, as opposed to the Bordeaux ones that have typically been favoured.
A hogshead of wine in the US holds 63 US gallons (52 imperial gallons; 240 litres); a hogshead of wine in the UK holds 300 litres (66 imperial gallons; 79 US gallons).
Methods and Innovations Enologix quality model has been used in Argentina, California, France, Long Island, Oregon, Washington to optimize taste quality to improve sales.
If fermentation of the main batch starts to slow or appears to be nearing stuck fermentation, the half dried grapes are added to the must which then gives the yeast cells a new source of sugar to enliven the batch.
It is a paraphrase of the Latin "Jesu dulcis memoria", a medieval hymn attributed to Bernard of Clairvaux, a meditation on Jesus as a comforter and helper in distress.
It turned out that the deeds were of land that accounted for a third of Denver, then a small village, which was soon to blossom into one of the largest and wealthiest cities of the American West.
Translation error types and resultant humour Below are some components of linguistic stimulus theories that attempts to explain the way humour might be derived from translations, as adapted from "Accidental Humor in International Public Notices Displayed in English" by M.
Linguistic Imperialism is a book written by Robert Phillipson, research professor at Copenhagen Business School's Department of English, published in 1992 by Oxford University Press.
Word lists Ogden's word lists include only word roots, which in practice are extended with the defined set of affixes and the full set of forms allowed for any available word (noun, pronoun, or the limited set of verbs).
I am creator of a universal language called panlingua based on numbers and astrology that will help people know each other better.
First published in 1985 and then again with an addendum in 1992, it includes pronunciation, grammar and vocabulary.
Zangezi speaks significant words, but human beings are ignorant to understand him: Velimir Khlebnikov and Futurism Velimir Khlebnikov invented new words in the play: birds language, words of sky, and 'beyonsense'.
See also Argot Pig Latin Tutnese or Double Dutch, similar rules Ubbi dubbi Javanais Gibberish == References ==
The vowel of the past tense is sometimes written ⟨é⟩ and sometimes ⟨e⟩, suggesting that the accent is merely a reminder that the letter is not silent, rather than marking a distinct vowel.
See also Characteristica universalis Engineered language Ideal language philosophy Linguistic philosophy Natural semantic metalanguage References Bibliography Umberto Eco, The Search for the Perfect Language, 1993.
English-language post on Jeringonza — a language game equivalent of Pig Latin used in some Romance Languages.
Arturo Alfandari (8 June 1888 – 1 May 1969) was a Belgian diplomat, known as the creator of the constructed language Neo.
After the takeover of the website, the owner regained control in 2022 making the site available through a Tor network endpoint until 2023.
See also An Essay Towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language Philosophical language References == Sources ==
First Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1879-1880.
Traditional Chinese poetic forms such as shi and fu have been achieved; however, achieving Tang-era tone patterns highly depends on the Chinese topolect and syllable in use.
After the war he settled in Belgium, where he worked as an exporter before eventually becoming a diplomat for the Belgian state.
Vocabularies of oligosynthetic languages are made of compound words, which are coined from a small (theoretically minimal) set of morphemes.
It is true that the nationalism of oppressed peoples – as a natural self-defensive reaction – is much more excusable than the nationalism of peoples who oppress; but, if the nationalism of the strong is ignoble, the nationalism of the weak is imprudent; both give birth to and support each other".
2, and reprinted under the title Boontling, or the strange Boonville language by the Mendocino County Historical Society in 1967.
The Yugtun or Alaska script is a syllabary invented around the year 1900 by Uyaquq to write the Central Alaskan Yup'ik language.
leche → chele (milk, used primarily to refer to semen) libro → broli (book) e.g., (usually plural) "¡Che, agarrá los brolis más seguido!" (Dude, get the books and learn something!) amigo → gomía (friend) e.g., "¡Eh!, ¡¿qué hacés gomía?!" (Hey!
As the Eldar eventually discovered in their dealings with the Naugrim, they could speak with their voices but at the same time by ‘gesture’ convey to their own folk modifications of what was being said.
Etymological studies Many entirely coincidental word similarities have been documented and regularly occur between languages regardless of how related or unrelated the languages may be; these are commonly disregarded in the academic study of etymology.
The form has been compared to Oulipian potential literature, being compared to Alphabetical Africa by Walter Abish and A Little Illustrated ABC by George Perec, but is distinguished by the Han script bypassing the need for phonetic priming to achieve successful meaning.
The flag was created in 2016 by Reddit user u/clausangeloh, and it uses a color palette of #00bbff and #ffffff .
In the introduction and first part, Schor introduces her first experiences with Esperanto, and gives a synopsis of its history.
NavBharati is a TrueType sans-serif font which supports transliteration of the Devanagari, Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam scripts.
The script borrows characters and concepts from multiple scripts including the Latin script, Devanagari, Tamil script, Telugu script, Kannada script, Malayalam script, and the Bengali–Assamese script.
Finally, the fourth section describes the concepts and language relating to mass, space, and motion.
He (as he/she then is) is caged in "The Mask Factory", and his captors fear him much more than any of their other creations.
The Plight of the Woman and the Rape of Truth: (The Inventist-Temporarist-Everybodist-Nikedist-Feminist Manifesto) (1973).
The digraphs are: Grammar The definite article for all genders is in the singular la and in the plural las but the form la can be valid for the plural.
Ebbe Vilborg (1926–2018) was a Swedish philologist of classical languages, Esperantist, lexicographer, terminologist and interlinguist.
ROILA has a syntax that allows it to be useful for many different kinds of robots, including the Roomba, and Lego Mindstorms NXT.
An example of phono-semantic rhyming slang is the Cockney sorrowful tale 'jail', in which case the person coining the slang term sees a semantic link, sometimes jocular, between the Cockney expression and its referent.
They are notable for evolving from a pictographic system to a semi-syllabary in the space of fourteen years, from 1896 to 1910.
Neo His proposal for Neo, an international auxiliary language, was developed in the 1930s and first presented in 1961.
Gibson of the United States Army Coastal Artillery, which replaces words with numbers using the digits 0-9.
The people of Mărgău traditionally worked with glass for centuries, making mirrors, windows and religious icons and selling them to other parts of the country such as Bucharest, the capital of Romania, or Brăila and Constanța.
Most grammatical meaning is expressed through particles that precede the words they modify, such as é (plural), ng (present progressive), lá (perfective aspect), and kà (volitive).
The digits 0-9 are used in modern writing, but the signs for larger numbers are falling into disuse.
Subsequently, Salo provided similar services as the Tolkien language consultant for The Hobbit film trilogy.
Waldemar Rosenberger, (Russian: Владимир Карлович Розенбергер, Vladimir Karlovich Rozenberger, 1848–1918) from Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire, became director of the International Volapük Academy in 1892.
This progresses to multiplication, division, variables, and constants, then propositional logic, set theory, and first-order logic.
Simultaneous with, and independently from Tokai, Levente Zoltán Király made significant progress in describing some structural elements of the code.
1940: Road to Singapore, starring Bing Crosby and Bob Hope, features a song with Esperanto lyrics sung by a chorus of natives of Kaigoon, a fictional island in the East Indies.
Most spellings were not formalized until the 1970s, primarily by the writings of Jack (Wee Fuzz) June.
Expanding cultural awareness amongst peers will improve cultural empathy, fluency, and awareness amongst ethnic groups that are present.
Personal pronouns take gender in a, and may drop their characteristic i ending when they do, just as nouns may drop their o: mi "I", masculine ami or am, feminine mai or ma; ti "thou", masc.
Monosyllabic words ending in consonant clusters which end in -r or -l are pronounced with an epenthetic vowel same as the last vowel (llifr pronounced as llifir /ˈɬiːvɪɾ/, see above).
The language was further developed by David and Jessie Peterson for the films Dune (2021) and Dune: Part Two (2024).
Letters Warang Citi is quite distinct from other writing systems of India, and it has features of an abugida and an alphabet.
For example, Pig Latin, Ubbi Dubbi, and Tutnese could all be in the "English" category, and Jeringonza could be in the "Spanish", ("Portuguese", or "Italian") category.
In the singular this will be different from the final vowel of the word; the plural is formed by making it the same as the final vowel.
Plateau Sign Language, or Old Plateau Sign Language, is a poorly attested, extinct sign language historically used across the Columbian Plateau.
As a constructed language, it can be classified as a highly naturalistic a priori language: apart from loan words from European languages, the basic vocabulary and the grammar are unique.
For instance, q and Q represent different voiceless uvular consonants, the voiceless uvular affricate and the voiceless uvular plosive, respectively.
Onset clusters such as tw are similar to affricates: both consonants are placed in the triangle, though some spacial adjustment may be necessary.
Konráð Gíslason (1808–91), professor in Old Scandinavian languages at the University of Copenhagen, published the first Danish–Icelandic dictionary in 1851.
Today, the books (and subsequent films) are so well known in Sweden, and also in Norway, that the language is part of the culture of schoolchildren.
Proposed subdivisions Historically, the term "North Slav" has been used in academia since at least the first half of the 19th century.
Death Zamenhof died in Warsaw on 14 April 1917, possibly of a heart attack, and was buried at the Okopowa Street Jewish Cemetery.
This underscores the importance of nonverbal communication in shaping the quality and success of interpersonal relationships.
For example, Ubbi Dubbi, Bicycle, and Allspråket all work by inserting a code syllable before the vowel in each syllable.
Compounds are used to specify clusivity: mimi "we" (exclusive), timi "we" (inclusive informal: thou/ye & I), vimi "we" (inclusive formal: you & I).
For instance, if someone says they are happy while displaying a frown, the mixed signals may cause the listener to doubt the sincerity of the verbal message.
This model is argued as being more appropriate and linguistically accurate than the triple dissection of east, west and south.
The Australian television show Spicks and Specks had a contest called "Turning Japanese" which used RTT on song lyrics.
(...) I know that this orthographic form has displeased several of Novial's old and faithful friends, but it is my impression that many others have applauded it.
In addition, the character metrics use a specific layout where the usual baseline is not used, and the ideographic em-square is not relevant for Bliss character designs that use additional "earth line" and "sky line" to define the composition square.
Phase C The third system, called Nyi Nyi Nfa' after its first three characters, was developed around 1902.
Langmaker is a website run by Jeffrey Henning that acts as a database of conlangs, neographies, and other resources related to conlanging and conworlding.
Similarly, The Sweeney (1975–78) alludes to the phrase "Sweeney Todd" for "Flying Squad", a rapid response unit of London's Metropolitan Police.
Moreover, Ogden assumed that any student should already be familiar with (and thus may only review) a core subset of around 200 "international" words.
It is likely that it influenced Volapük, Esperanto, and other language projects of the 19th century.
Gottfried Leibniz created lingua generalis (or lingua universalis) in 1678, aiming to create a lexicon of characters upon which the user might perform calculations that would yield true propositions automatically; as a side effect he developed binary calculus.
'Then the throne is for him.' The merged form czesztot 'it is, that is' begins a sentence: Czesztot Tintin.
Salo on Tolkien's languages Enthusiast Salo's interest in Tolkien's languages arose when he read Tolkien's works as a boy.
Baldauf describe the sectors' six principal goals: To choose the languages which should be taught within the curriculum.
Modern Hebrew used Biblical Hebrew morphemes, Mishnaic spelling and grammar, and Sephardic pronunciation.
By the time of the book's publication, Schor had been part of the Esperanto community for seven years.
It then introduces means for measuring durations, referring to moments in time, and talking about past and future events.
Andreas Moehn – Lalaith's Guide to Adûnaic Grammar Thorsten Renk's Ni-bitha Adûnâyê Adûnaic from Almavarno in Italian Archived 2019-04-20 at the Wayback Machine
(Higley (2007) finds probable correspondences for two other words.) "O orzchis Ecclesia, girded with divine arms, and adorned with hyacinth, you are the caldemia of the wounds of the loifols, and the city of sciences.
Portmann & Odermatt (1986) Higley (2007), Hildegard of Bingen's Unknown Language: An Edition, Translation, and Discussion, the entire Riesencodex glossary, with additions from the Berlin MS, translations into English, and extensive commentary.
Participles Participles are formed with mɛ-, further derived as nouns or adjectives (gerunds): mɛpini 'determinative', ɛmɛwako 'driver' (wako to drive).
Personal pronouns Verbal systems The grammars of Novial and Ido differ substantially in the way that the various tenses, moods and voices of verbs are expressed.
'Axes + Dwarves' "Axes of the Dwarves" the axes belong to the dwarves, Khazad-dûm 'Dwarves + Delving' "Dwarrowdelf", a Dwarvish delving.
The script was launched with significant publicity especially with an audience from Malawian Minister of Youth, Sports and Culture, Mr Kamangadazi Chambalo, was quoted as saying: Mwangwego script is in itself history in the making.
It is unique to the village and not spoken in the other villages that form part of the commune of Sântimbru, to which Totoi belongs.
History The IMWA was originally designed for describing sign language and consequently was named Sutton's Sign Symbol Sequence (SSS) by its inventor, Valerie Sutton.
However, other Quechua linguists argued that a three-vowel system was more faithful to the phonology of Quechua.
The IALA continued to publish materials in and about Interlingua until 1953, when its activities were taken up by the new Interlingua Division of Science Service.
In Margin Call (2011), Will Emerson, played by London-born actor Paul Bettany, asks a friend on the telephone, "How's the trouble and strife?" ("wife").
Comedy career Unwin's early career and training introduced him to wireless and radio communication, and this, coupled with work in the BBC's War Reporting Unit from about 1944, ultimately proved to be his passage into the media.
Zamenhof's grandson through Adam, Louis-Christophe Zaleski-Zamenhof, lived in France from the 1960s until his death in 2019, and whose daughter, Margaret Zaleski-Zamenhof, is still active in the Esperanto movement.
For example, the word for "people" in Unamunda is "peephole" and the word for "carry" is "cargo." A full translation of all the words can be found here.
ESF sponsors also a number of other events, including the Nitobe Symposia, a conference series on world language problems that bring together activists, academics and politicians.
Bos found the letter mentioned in a summary of autographs kept by Haverford College in Haverford, Pennsylvania.
Becker (New York: Harcourt, Brace, & World) See also Americanist phonetic notation § Pike Wycliffe Global Alliance References Further reading Brend, Ruth M.
List of personal pronouns: i, tu, he, ce, je, nu, vu, lu = "I, you (singular), he, she, it, we, you (plural & polite form), they".
A diacritic that indicates vowel nasality, known as ingungwanyana, is provided specifically for the Tekela languages.
The Sociotechnicum In 1918, the Gordin Brothers issued a "Declaration of the First Central Sociotechnicum", a manifesto for the creation of "a special institution of social experimentation" dedicated to the proposition that "social apparatuses can be invented, perfected and cultivated artificially".
The personal pronouns are Singular me (I), tu / vu (you), il (he), el (she), it (it), lo (third person gender not defined).
He was among the founders of the Croatian Prosvjetni savez (Educational Alliance), of which he was the first secretary, and organized Esperanto institutions in Zagreb.
For example, the Icelandic-looking word eyðni, meaning "AIDS", is a phonosemantic match of the English acronym AIDS, using the existing Icelandic verb eyða ("to destroy") and the Icelandic nominal suffix -ni.
English is learned as the main international language, especially in view of the internationalization of the economy of Iceland with intensive trade and capital flows to and from the outside world.
Oduduwa has received support from other chiefs of Yorubaland in both countries as an adjunct to or possible replacement of the Latin script.
From sinta 'hundred', cognate with "cent", it would seem that there may be nasalized vowels, for in French the letters ⟨in⟩ represent a nasalized /ɛ/; that is, sinta is presumably to be pronounced [sẽta] or [senta], not *[sinta].
Serpent's Walk and Holocaust denial Barker wrote a sixth novel, Serpent's Walk, under the pseudonym Randolph D.
Little detailed information about Angoroj is available, except that the cast included some proficient Esperantists, including Raymond Schwartz, who also directed skits for Parisian Esperanto cabarets.
Phase F The sixth system, called A Ka U Ku after its first four characters, was developed around 1910.
See also Cultural imperialism English as a lingua franca Hegemony Linguistic imperialism References Sources
Despite resenting much of his strict religious upbringing, he continued to maintain a strong spiritual disposition, still believing in God while having no allegiance to any specific denomination.
Ithkuil, in particular, comes close to this ideal, with the vast majority of its morphemes being a single syllable, and sometimes even a single phoneme, in length.
The Google interface was translated into Kitara in February 2010 by the Faculty of Computing and IT, Makerere University.
If after using RTT, the resulting text is inaccurate, the source text can then be edited until a satisfactory result is achieved.
On computers running Microsoft Windows, the Adlam script received native support beginning with Windows 10 version 1903, which was released in May 2019.
Formatives and personal reference categories now have the option to carry Effect, a category prescribing beneficial, detrimental, or neutral states to a referent.
It exaggerates stereotypical (mostly phonetic and orthographic) traits of older stages of German and some modern (especially Upper German) dialects in an impressionistic way, rather than in a rigorously systematic fashion.
Hergé had developed the idea of setting an Adventure of Tintin on the moon while producing Prisoners of the Sun.
Pananarchism also entailed an extension of anarchist principles to "everything", including the fields of knowledge and culture: it meant a critique of both religion and science from a "sociotechnical" perspective.
When the syllables of the noun are switched, the original gender - masculine or feminine - is kept; e.g., "un café -> un feca" Examples Examples include: revés → vesre (reverse; backwards).
Using gestures and objects, not asking questions in a language that the person might know, Pike would begin to analyze the language before the audience.
During the 19th century, the linguistic purism movement is inextricably connected with the magazine Fjölnir (published from 1835 to 1839 and from 1844 to 1847).
Short vowels: i /i/e /e/a /a/o /o/u /u/ Long vowels: ii /iː/aa /aː/uu /uː/ Consonants: b /b/t /t/d /d/ch /tʃ/j /dʒ/k /k/g /ɡ/q /q/’ /ʔ/f /f/v /v/th /θ/dh /ð/s /s/z /z/sh /ʃ/h /h/m /m/n /n/r /ɾ/l /l/w /w/y /j/ The consonants /t/, /tʃ/, and /k/ are unaspirated.
Mudra Bharati A finger-spelling system is proposed alongside the Bharati script named Mudra Bharati, for use as a sign language.
In 1895 he lectured in philosophy at the University of Toulouse and 1897 lectured in philosophy of mathematics at the University of Caen Normandy, taking a stand in favor of transfinite numbers.
Introduction Neolatino emerged as a standard language with a strictly Romance basis, unlike other similar language projects such as Interlingua.
However some suffixes (such as -èl indicating an instrument) and the ending -ì for the past are always stressed; when two or more suffixes are combined, the stress always falls on the penultimate suffix.
Wyrod, Christopher (2003), The light on the horizon: N'Ko literacy and formal schooling in Guinea, MA thesis, George Washington University Wyrod, Christopher (2008).
Both Descartes and Fermat were inspired by the works of the Ancient Greek mathematicians Pappus of Alexandria and Apollonius of Perga, especially by their techniques of analysis.
In his psychotherapy work, Weilgart sometimes used client-created aUI formulations to reveal possible subconscious associations to problematic concepts.
There are few ligatures that combine to form new sounds, and there are conjunct consonants that are used as well by stacking in some cases.
Tot Aĉetas Mil Okulojn, written by Polish author Jean Forge and published in this year, was adapted by Fritz Lang as The Thousand Eyes of Dr.
Examples The following examples attempt to show what the syntax of the language looks like in various uses.
The 13 vowels of Ithkuil are as follows: /ɪ ʊ/ are pronounced as /i u/ when they precede another vowel, and at the end of a word.
In 1887, Peano married Carola Crosio, the daughter of the Turin-based painter Luigi Crosio, known for painting the Refugium Peccatorum Madonna.
It was also reportedly a major influence on other creations such as Hârn and the Skyrealms of Jorune.
In words more than two syllables, word-final -t in the sequence -nt, and -r or -l as the second members of consonant clusters become silent.
Louis Couturat (French: [kutyʁa]; 17 January 1868 – 3 August 1914) was a French logician, mathematician, philosopher, and linguist.
Development and dissemination The idea for a Malawian script came on November 10, 1977, in Paris, when Mwangwego discovered that there are various writing systems in the world, and thought that words meaning "to write" in Malawian languages were evidence that they once had a script of their own.
The shape of the consonant grapheme corresponds to the manner of articulation: Fricatives are indicated by curved lines; with the retroflex/whistled and postalveolar fricatives being loops.
The letter s plays an important part but tends to distort the visual appearance of some words (sientie = science, sesa = cease, sivil(i) = civil).
In this case, their form is identical to that of the genitive singular: mani: "manly, man's"; ʒinu: feminine, "woman's".
Its vocabulary and grammar resembles that of Dutch and German and has little in common with any Slavic languages.
A thanksgiving service was held at St Lawrence's Church in Long Buckby and ended with a rendering of "Bye Bye Blackbird" by John Percival and friends.
He came to prominence after creating the Dothraki and Valyrian languages for the television series Game of Thrones.
Through a convenient quirk of fate, Phaedrus is summoned to the local ruler when the attempt occurs.
With 384,478 articles as of 23 April 2026, it is the 37th-largest Wikipedia as measured by the number of articles, and the largest Wikipedia in a constructed language.
Other examples of Totoiana are Fanuște, Laenico and Anio ("Ștefan", "Nicolae" and "Ioan", Romanian names), cava ("cow", vaca in Romanian) and nudru nubu ("farewell", drum bun in Romanian).
Since all the other children spoke Pig Latin, we were superior because Tut was hard to speak and even harder to understand.
The first edition of Zangezi was published in July 1922, but Khlebnikov didn't see the publication because had died a few weeks earlier on June 28, 1922, from what some sources said was malaria.
The Bagam or Eghap script is a partially deciphered Cameroonian script of several hundred characters.
With administrative permission, Stanford students can take the class for two credits a quarter through the Linguistics Department.
In The Transformer, we resume where Phaedrus left off, content with his life, a few adopted children and a gather-woman.
Example: un bona viro (a good man), belas juvenilos (beautiful girls), granda monto (a big mountain).
A Slib of Lorey (translation: A bit of folklore) by Edna Sanders English to Boontling by Judy Belshe-Toernblom.
The Esperantic Studies Foundation, abbreviated ESF, is a non-profit organisation initiated in 1968 by Jonathan Pool, E.
The term ideal language is sometimes used near-synonymously, though more modern philosophical languages such as Toki Pona are less likely to involve such an exalted claim of perfection.
The emergence of insulated glazing and glass-manufacturing companies also caused the people of Mărgău to lose customers.
This is because the practice of the traditional profession of Mărgău has been reduced considerably and because part of the local population has left the place.
This is clearly distinct from the symbol of "language", which is a combination of "mouth" and "ear".
Between 1990 and 2002, he was a member of the Editorial Advisory Committee of the Journal of Historical Review, which advocated Holocaust denial.
Eine Schriftentwicklung um 1900 in Alaska, Harrassowitz, Wiesbaden (Reprint der Ausgabe Leipzig 1940), ISBN 3-447-02162-4 Vol.
It was developed as a secret language for the use of palace officials, employing a random mix of words from French, English, and German.
For an untrained speaker, a word or phrase can often be something of a tongue twister or a shibboleth.
English frequently makes use of diphthongs, which is an issue for back slang since diphthongs cannot be reversed.
Early life and education Karl Ebbe Vilborg was born on 14 February 1926 in Annedal, Gothenburg, to Annie Carolina Cederberg and Karl Viktor Vilborg.
I think now that this wedding and survival of several in a common offspring is a far more probable thing.
The Oduduwa script () was created in 2016 or 2017 by a Beninese Yoruba chief named Tolúlàṣẹ Ògúntósìn for the Yoruba language of Nigeria and Benin.
Joseph Schipfer (8 April 1761 – 27 January 1843) was a German landowner and wine producer, today mostly known for his creation of the language Communicationssprache.
Urquhart devotes sections of the book to polemics against the foes who prevented him from publishing his linguistic works, primarily his creditors and the Church of Scotland.
was calling himself the Budetlyanin (a Russian pun, meaning 'a Future Living Being'), not a Futurist, and not accidentally that term was not held' ('...не случайно...
They show a collective attempt to propagate, in a democratic way, an international language to facilitate the scientific reports among nations, favouring the progress of civilization and culture.
Richards discussed why he trademarked Basic English, in order to prevent dilution and misrepresentation).
Agbirigba is unintelligible to other speakers of Ikwerre, but the rule for its derivation is simple: the consonant t is added before every CV syllable (or, more accurately, every CV mora).
This correlation could be used to estimate the quality of the forward translation and by simplifying the source text, improve the quality of the forward translation.
as well as a series of symposia on language and development in New York aimed at raising the awareness of the United Nations about the importance of language equality for human development and human rights.
Rabindranath Tagore also composed his Bhanusimha Thakurer Padavali (1884) in this language (he initially promoted these lyrics as those of a newly discovered poet, Bhanusingha).
He transliterated the first 24 pages of the codex to get a Hindi text which was translated to Hungarian.
He doesn't want anyone to laugh at her for learning the language, and tries to convince her to stop speaking Unamunda.
Eventually the upheaval grinds to a halt and Phaedrus gathers small groups of refugees to himself, becoming a sort of mind-healer.
ESF also helped to establish official Esperanto examinations in accordance with the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages.
Literary mentions In Ernest Thompson Seton's book Two Little Savages, the protagonist, Yan, learns the "Tutnee" language from another boy at camp and tries to teach it to his friends Sam and Giles.
In Linguistic Imperialism, Phillipson argues that Western countries have used English as a tool of imperialism to dominate colonies and former colonies.
The phonology of Yoruba, however, suggests that Guosa vowels do not form diphthongs, as almost all the words with adjacent vowels come from Yoruba, in which all vowels are pronounced separately.
Grammar The lexicon of the original Ithkuil consisted of the same patterns as the 2011 form of the language.
Vocabulary The vocabulary of ROILA was generated by an algorithm designed to create a vocabulary with the least confusion amongst words.
The phrases valar morghulis and valar dohaeris, on the other hand, became the foundation of the language's conjugation system.
Brajabuli is basically Maithili (as prevalent during the medieval period), but its forms are modified to look like Bengali.
There once was an occasion, when Velimir Khlebnikov said that he didn't belong to Futurism; that is why the literary critic Yury Tynyanov underlined, that he 'not accidentally ...
Life Originally from Italy, Arturo Alfandari served in the First World War as a cipher officer for the Italian High Command.
In 1985 Unwin recorded with Suns of Arqa on their album Ark of the Arqans, providing spoken accompaniment in Unwinese on the first three tracks.
The idea was to use Latin vocabulary, since this was widely known, but simplify the grammar as much as possible and remove all irregular and anomalous forms to make it easier to learn.
Two of his textbooks have been published, one on personality theories and one on the history of psychology.
In 1996, he published his first long novel in three volumes, Seikai no Monshou (Seikai no Monshō/Crest of the Stars).
Learners are expected to form their own conclusions on the meaning of other members’ messages based only on their existing knowledge of the language, and visual aids in the form of emoji and images.
External links Desatir, or, Sacred writings of the ancient Persian prophets : in the original tongue ...
français [fʁɑ̃sɛ] becomes céfran [sefʁɑ̃]; French louchébem, which relies on syllables inversion too, but also adds extra syllables; Greek podaná (e.g.
The kilns were built by Moses Byrne around 1869 near the Piedmont Station along the Union Pacific Railroad.
The Yilan Brick Kiln (traditional Chinese: 宜蘭磚窯; simplified Chinese: 宜兰砖窑; pinyin: Yílán Zhuānyáo) is a former brick manufacturing factory in Beijin Village, Yilan City, Yilan County, Taiwan.
The temple site is about a 20-minute walk from Tondabayashi Station on the Kintetsu Railway Kintetsu Nagano Line.
Similar camps were established on State forest to house and employ migrants and refugees from war-torn Europe.[2] Archived 2018-08-09 at the Wayback Machine To provide accommodation, eighteen masonite huts were purchased from the Army and erected at the site.
The site is located in the Seto neighborhood in Higashi-ku in the city of Okayama, Okayama Prefecture in the San'yō region of Japan.
Construction The internal walls of the kiln are constructed from brickwork approximately 300 mm thick, reinforced externally by iron bands known as "bonts".
Other, less sophisticated, products included money boxes, cookware, finials and ridge tiles (but not plain tiles), curfews (large, dished cover-plates to close off hearths at night), chimney pots and drainpipes.
A sign posted near the kiln reads, "This kiln was constructed around 1880 by Jake and Joe Carmichael to convert oak wood into charcoal for use at nearby smelters.
There are two known major groups of earthenware and celadon kiln sites from the Goryeo period: those in Gangjin County and more in Buan County.
The kiln is divided into a trumpet-shaped six-meter ventilation path and a 2-meter combustion section, which was cylindrical and which had an inclination of about 30 degrees.
In particular, the semi-mythical Chai ware, and Longquan celadon often feature in earlier groupings, and Jun ware is often omitted.
In the late Edo period, Hasami was the number one producer of blue-and-white porcelain in Japan, and bottles and other products were exported.
The Kiln Site in Jinseo-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 진서리 요지; Hanja: 扶安鎭西里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Jinseo-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
In Middle English, the word is attested as kulne, kyllne, kilne, kiln, kylle, kyll, kil, kill, keele, kiele.
Kido Tile Kiln site (木戸瓦窯跡, Kido Kawara Kama-ato) is an archaeological site with the remains of a late Nara period, early Heian period kiln for roof tile production located in what is now the city of Ōsaki, Miyagi Prefecture in the Tōhoku region of northern Japan.
They further developed creative products based on brick and tiles, leading the community craft towards an industrial culture.
Overview Sue pottery is believed to have originated in the 5th or 6th century in the Kaya region of southern Korea, and was brought to Japan by immigrant craftsmen in the late Kofun period to the Asuka period.
Until the discovery of this site 1950s, it was not known that pottery had been made on the Atsumi Peninsula.
The Narayama Tile Kiln Sites (奈良山瓦窯跡, Narayama kawara gama ato) is the collective name for several archaeological sites containing Nara period kilns located in northern Nara city in Nara Prefecture and southern Kizugawa city in Kyoto Prefecture in the Kansai region of Japan.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Aichi) References External links Tahara Museum home page (in Japanese)
See also Anagama kiln Bartmann jug Pottery References External links Catawba Valley Pottery - History and Illustrations Contemporary Catawba Valley Pottery NEA Profile of Burlon Craig
The Sue pottery kilns are labelled No.5 and No.6 and were in continuous use until into the Kamakura period.
The site at present consists of a two meter long by 1.5 meter wide portion of a noborigama tunnel kiln and hearth.
Initially, tiled roofs were a sign of great wealth and prestige, and used for temple and government buildings.
The Kokubu Tile Kiln ruins (国分瓦窯跡, Kokubu kawara gama ato) is an archaeological site with the ruins of a Nara period kiln, located in the city of Dazaifu, Fukuoka Prefecture Japan.
From the late Eastern Han dynasty to the Southern Song dynasty (~200–1200 A.D.), celadon was produced in vast amounts and traded in regional networks.
The kilns are roughly round, with a low dome covering the central firing area, and are generally only 2 to 3 metres (6.6 to 9.8 ft) across inside.
Overview The Konda Hakuchō site is located in between the Konda Mitoyama Kofun (tomb of Emperor Ōjin) and the Hakayama Kofun in the Furuichi Kofun Cluster, and was the location where the thousands of haniwa used in these, and other burial mounds in the area.
The quality of its decoration was highly prized in the West and widely imitated by major European porcelain manufacturers during the Rococo period.
Haniwa made at this site have been recovered from a wide area around Ibaraki Prefecture, including the Funazukayama Kofun on the north coast of Lake Kasumigaura, 15 kilometers away.
Each kiln was divided into a combustion chamber for burning firewood and a firing chamber for baking tiles, and in front of the combustion chamber was a vestibule that served as a workshop.
A second kiln was established later at Jiaotanxia ("Altar of Heaven" or "Suburban Altar"), on the outskirts of the new capital; this has been identified and excavated.
Fossils of sponge bone needles contained in the clay that rise to the surface during firing, forming white needle-like patterns, distinguish the products from other kiln sites.
The site was in use from about 1630 to the 1660s When the kiln was first built, porcelain and earthenware were made together here, but later only porcelain was produced, and it is now Arita's oldest dedicated porcelain kiln.
Before the powder goes to the kiln, the composition of the 3 components is carefully monitored to ensure the right ratio.
Australia Lime Kiln Remains, Ipswich Pipers Creek Lime Kilns Raffan's Mill and Brick Bottle Kilns There were a number of lime kilns at Wool Bay, South Australia.
The tableware was lead- and tin-glazed, using galena (probably sourced from the Mendip Hills) and stannic oxide.
Overview In 1180 AD, during the Genpei War of the late Heian period, the great temple of Tōdai-ji was burned down by Heike forces.
Although the term "firebox" is used to describe the space for the fire, there is no physical structure separating the stoking space from the pottery space.
In the 13th and 14th centuries Laverstock was the centre of a prosperous ceramic industry, with baluster jugs (polychrome-glazed tall jugs) and aquamaniles being supplied to the nearby Clarendon Palace.
The process leaves mostly carbon as a residue, which can be incorporated into soil to create terra preta.
Latest technology was introduced to this kiln and after around two decades, the brick production in this factory accounted for around 70% of bricks in Taiwan.
Ash glazed pottery was distributed throughout the Japanese archipelago as a domestic, high-class ceramic.
Overview The Kosugimaruyama Site located in the southwestern part of the Imizu Hills, in the western part of the Toyama Plain.
Tea utensils such as tea bowls from the Edo period and kiln tools for producing them have been excavated from a narrow area in front of the kiln's opening and have been dated to the end of the 17th century and 18th century .
See also List of World Heritage Sites in South Korea Joseon white porcelain Korean pottery and porcelain References External links Media related to Gangjin Kiln Sites at Wikimedia Commons UNESCO "World Heritage In Korea" (PDF).
Sue pottery is believed to have originated in the 5th or 6th century in the Kaya region of southern Korea, and was brought to Japan by immigrant craftsmen.
In a subsequent excavation in 1992, a pit kiln from the early Heian period was discovered, and tiles with glaze drips remaining and fragments of a multi-mouthed bottle with two-colored glaze were excavated.
The location of the site is not disclosed; they are listed as "Address Restricted", as is done for archeological resources that may be damaged and lose their information potential, if not protected.
The Viola ore deposit was discovered in 1881 and was mined until 1888 when the ore was depleted and the price of lead had fallen.
Typical applications include oxidation studies of high-temperature materials, annealing under inert atmospheres, reduction reactions, sintering of ceramics, and chemical vapor deposition experiments.
The hexagonal vases and covers known as "Hampton Court" vases were named after a pair at Hampton Court Palace near London, recorded in an inventory of 1696.
A user may choose to control the rate of temperature climb or ramp, hold or soak the temperature at any given point, or control the rate of cooling.
The monk Shunjōbō Chōgen, with the support of the Imperial Court, was appointed as a daikan to collect the funds for the project, and was given the revenues of all Bizen Province to use for the reconstruction.
The Continental Clay Brick Plant in Martinsburg, West Virginia includes a number of beehive brick kilns.
The three surviving beehive-shaped kilns were built of local sandstone about 30 feet (9.1 m) in circumference and about 30 feet (9.1 m) high, with 24-inch-thick (61 cm) walls.
The foundations of the buildings were no different from those found in ordinary settlements; however, there were a very large number of shards of Haji ware and a small amount of Sue ware found mixed with charcoal and ash in the soil around the kilns.
The Yamakuma kiln site is thought to have been in operation in the first half of the 5th century, and operations appear to have ceased after a relatively short period of time.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Aichi) References External links Tahara city museum official site Tahara tourist information site
In the process of annealing glass, the temperature is first equalised by holding or "soaking" the glass at the annealing point for a period of time that depends on the maximum thickness of the glass.
Both kilns are 30 feet (9.1 m) tall and 25 feet (7.6 m) in diameter and were built from rocks and mud.
The Tybo Charcoal Kilns are a pair of charcoal kilns located 4 miles (6.4 km) north of Tybo, Nevada.
The Muromachi period was a golden age for Suzu ware, but it soon went into decline, and vanished by the time of the Sengoku period, unable to complete with large-scale production in areas such as Tokoname.
Wilkerson & Sons Brick Works, Front Street (Road 409), Milford, Sussex County, DE", 35 photos, 3 measured drawings, 13 data pages Brick Making Machine website
He is considered a pioneer of the revival of wood-fired ceramics in the US and credited as one of the first to use wood-burning dragon kilns in the style of the anagama tradition.
Enshū's Seven Kilns (遠州七窯 Enshū chō or Enshū nana gama) is a list of Japanese pottery kilns whose products were considered amongst the favourites of the Japanese tea ceremony master Kobori Enshū (小堀 遠州 1579–1647), who lived during the Edo period.
The listing included two charcoal kilns that each are about six feet in diameter and four feet deep, built out of stone.
In the saggar maker's workshop, clay would be rolled around a wooded form by the saggar maker, while a lad would knock the bottom using a mawl and an iron mould.
History The teamaster Enshū used a number of Japanese tea utensils and corresponded about it with other friends, connoisseurs of tea, and the lords of the provinces where the kilns were located.
The temple's influence declined during the Heian period, but it was rebuilt in the late Kamakura period by Eison and Ninsho of Saidai-ji.
The Shanglin Lake Yue Kilns (Chinese: 上林湖越窑遗址) are a cluster of archaeological sites where Yue ware was made, though they are by no means the only ones.
Kiln No.5 and Kiln No.6 had lengths of 5.5 meters and 5.8 meters respectively, and share the same vestibule.
The Kiln Site in Yucheon-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 유천리 요지; Hanja: 扶安柳川里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Yucheon-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
Cultural Transformation Li Chun-Hong, the fourth-generation owner of Sanhe Tile Kiln, organized the Tile Kiln Culture Association.
Green-glazed eaves tiles from the early to late Heian period were unearthed here, and green-glazed pottery was also found in the climbing kiln, indicating that the kiln was both a pottery and a tile-making kiln.
These same types of tiles have been excavated from the nearby Shimotsuke Yakushi-ji temple ruins and the Shimotsuke Kokubun-ji ruins.
The place was published one of the Major Historical and Cultural Sites Protected at the National Level by the State Council in January 1988, and was classified as one of the 100 Great Sites Protection Plan from 2006.
Dating and kiln sites The new Southern Song court was established in Hangzhou in 1127, but some time probably elapsed before the kiln was established; this may not have been until after hostilities with the invaders were concluded in 1141.
These were opened in 1797 and closed in 1917 when the Weston branch was closed following a breach of the canal.
Narrow gauge railway The company operated a works-owned Decauville railway with a gauge of 600 mm (1 ft 11+5⁄8 in) from the quarries to the cement factory .
The Mantomi Tōdai-ji Tile Kiln ruins (万富東大寺瓦窯跡, Mantomi Tōdaiji kawara gama ato) is an archaeological site containing the remnants of a number of anagama kilns, from which the roof tiles for the Kamakura period reconstruction of the temple of Tōdai-ji in Nara were made.
Ninomiya Tile Kiln ruins (二ノ宮窯跡, Ninomiya kama ato) is an archaeological site consisting of the remains of two Nara period kilns located in what is now the Takase neighborhood of the city of Mitoyo, Kagawa Prefecture on the island of Shikoku, Japan.
For example, an anagama is somewhat like a half-tube (long vault) with a fire burned at the lower end.
Nevertheless, his designs provided the basis for successful kilns in the US from 1891, subsequently emulated worldwide.
Some digital temperature controllers provide an RS-232 interface, and permit the operator to program segments for uses like ramping, soaking, sintering, and more.
Alternatively it was originally produced accidentally, but within the Guan period became deliberate.
Later the materials for porcelain were found, so gradually Hasami ware shifted from pottery to porcelain.
Since both Kakiemon and Imari styles were already so popular among Europeans, Chinese export porcelain copied both styles.
The Former Tangrong Brick Kiln (traditional Chinese: 中都唐榮磚窯廠; simplified Chinese: 中都唐荣砖窑厂; pinyin: Zhōngdōu Tángróng Zhuānyáochǎng) is a former brick manufacturing factory in Sanmin District, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
A TLUD gasifier is a considerable improvement on the rocket stove, being a more efficient way to achieve smoke-free combustion of the fuel.
See also Listed buildings in Baschurch References External links Media related to Weston Lullingfields at Wikimedia Commons
The Daegumyeon kiln site is unusual because of the high concentration of kilns and because the dates of these kilns range throughout the entire Goryeo Dynasty.
It dates to the Heian period, during the late 12th century, and is registered as a National Treasure.
The annealing renders glass into a stronger material with fewer internal stresses, and with a lower probability of breaking.
A Butte, Montana, man named Warren King built 16 kilns from brick made from local clay, possibly obtained from Jump Creek on the east side of the Birch Creek valley.
In 1977, another site containing a Sue pottery fragment stamped with the "Mino Province" mark was discovered from the Oibora kiln site at the northern foot of the mountain, and three kiln ruins were confirmed at this location.
The Charcoal Kilns near Eureka, Utah were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.
At Weston Lullingfields the canal company built a wharf, four lime kilns, a public house, stables, a clerk's house and weighing machine.
On the south side of the tile kiln, was the remains of a building with pillars, a well, a rotary table, and a clay mining site.
After the fall of the Southern Song court and the unification of the Chinese nation under Mongol rule the Tiger Kiln maintained production.
The dragon kiln form was copied in Korea, from sometime between 100 and 300 CE, and much later in Japan in various types of climbing anagama kilns, and elsewhere in East Asia.
In an excavation conducted in 1989 , the remains of four tile kilns were found, in the form of flat kilns made from hollowed out ground, with a length of 3.3 meters, and a width of 1.1 meters and depth of 1.2 meters.
The crackle arises during cooling, when the coefficient of expansion differs between the glaze and the body.
During its initial years since 1965, the kiln would be fired up to four times a month due to production demands for the latex cups.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefecture Board of Education official site (in Japanese) Yūki city home page (in Japanese)
Suzu ware pottery has been found in many locations along the coast of the Sea of Japan as far north as Hokkaido, indicating that it was a common trade good for the coastal commerce.
Coal burning is a very dirty process; the smoke from a bottle kiln would eddy around the kiln top, and curl down to ground level either into the yard of the pot bank or into the streets and houses around.
In concert with long residence times in the high-temperature range, this leads to complete fuel burn-up.
Subsequent investigations found that one kiln was used for the production of Sue ware, whereas 34 kilns were specialized for roof tile production.
It is usually assumed that potters from the northern imperial kilns followed the court south to man the new kilns.
Wood tar Since prehistoric times, wood tar has been used as a water repellent coating for boats, ships, sails, and roofs.
The park contains replicas of the 20 types of haniwa (cylindrical, animal, house-shaped, or warrior) which have been found on this site).
Pottery produced at the Ōarako site was used for everyday items, such as large storage containers, tea bowls and funerary urns.
The Yamabeda Kiln closed around the same time, in the late 1650s to 1660s, and it is believed that this was due to the shift in the Imari ware production system and the change in the style required.
His pottery was featured in several publications and in 1981 examples of his work were added to the Smithsonian Institution collection.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saga) References External links Saga Prefecture home page(in Japanese)
The Lime Kilns located at the western end of Homansville Canyon near Eureka, Utah, were part of a lime quarry in the 1920s.
Access The Kotoge Kiln Site is about a 30-minute drive from Takeo-Onsen Station on the JR Kyushu Sasebo Line.
One camel load, or cantur (qentar / quntar = 100 ratels, or 250–300 kilograms), of lime would fetch 40 grush on the Jerusalem market in the early 1880s.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Prefectural Board of Education (in Japanese) Ishioka City official site (in Japanese) Ishioka Tourist Information site (in Japanese)
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Osaka) References External links Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education (in Japanese) Habikino City official site (in Japanese)
The Akahogi Tile Kiln site (赤保木瓦窯跡, Akahogi Kawara Kama-ato) is the remains of a late Nara period, early Heian period roof tile and pottery production site located in the Akahogi neighborhood of the city of Takayama, Gifu Prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan.
During the 570s under the reign of Emperor Bidatsu, the king of Baekche sent six people to Japan skilled in various aspects of Buddhism, including a temple architect.
Gallery References External links Media related to Laverstock ware at Wikimedia Commons Photographs of Laverstock ware by Craig Rycroft on Flickr: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
By all appearances, the pit was made after the same basic principle used in a "Dakota fire pit," which is made with an air inlet at the base, allowing for air-ventilation, but on a larger scale.
The archaeological excavation conducted in 1982 found that Goguryeo-style eaves tiles at this site are identical to those found at the ruins of Toyuraji in Asuka, Nara, some 50 km (31 mi) away.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education Archived 2021-04-27 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese) Hitachinaka City official site (in Japanese)
An archaeological excavation found a total of 35 kilns across an area 130 meters north-to-south and 80 meters east-to-west.
It is located a five-minute walk from the "Mawatari" bus stop on the Ibaraki Kotsu Bus from Katsuta Station on the JR East Jōban Line.
Two methods were used for this: 'A la chenille', packed in bags as general cargo via a conveyor belt.
It is evident that both were built to prepared designs, and that they were meant to operate closely together as a single functional unit.
Kiln furniture is made of refractory materials, i.e., materials that withstand high temperatures without deformation.
The Société Coloniale des Chaux et Ciments de Portland de Marseille (Colonial Company for Lime and Portland Cements in Marseille) owned and operated cement works in L'Estaque near Marseille in the department of Bouches-du-Rhône.
The celadons placed great emphasis on elegant forms and their ceramic glazes, and were otherwise lightly decorated, with no painting.
In Gangjin County, the more than 75 kilns are in Yongun-ri, 59 are in and around Gyeyul-ri, 43 are in Sadang-ri, and 6 are in Sudong-ri.
The ruins of a pottery kiln were discovered in 1936, and many pieces of Sue ware were excavated from inside.
Various different arrangements for controlling the airflow at front and back by vents and stone doors are found.
References External links Media related to Atsumi Kiln at Wikimedia Commons http://www.tnm.jp/modules/r_collection/index.php?controller=dtl_img&size=L&colid=E15464&t=type&id=34&lang=en
Despite its impressive technological achievements, the operation, managed and probably designed by Alfred Spence, was short-lived, closing in 1856, only eighteen months after it opened.
In Western Australia, the kiln at the Maylands Brickworks in the Perth suburb of Maylands, which operated from 1927 to 1982 is the only remaining Hoffman kiln in the state.
Since the furniture is being heated along with the load, this increases energy consumption hence the operating costs increase.
In the modern period, the kilns in Hasama became subcontractors for Arita ware, and the name gradually became an unknown brand.
Two of the kilns have been excavated and were found to be 1.5 meters high, 5.5 meters deep, and 1.5 meters wide, and to be constructed of sun-dried bricks.
The exhaust gas may go to waste, or may enter a preheater, which further exchanges heat with the entering feed.
The listing included one contributing site and two contributing structures: two lime kilns that are approximately 8 feet (2.4 m) in diameter and 30 to 40 feet (9.1 to 12.2 m) deep.
The site is one of the earliest such locations found in the Hokuriku region and shows the influence of the central government from the imperial dynasty and the influence of Buddhism during the Asuka period.
The kilns are built underground into the slope of a hill, and are a stepless form of the traditional anagama kiln.
The site was designated a National Historic Site of Japan in 1976 with the area under protection expanded in 2010.
The ceiling part is completely intact, and it appears to be the oldest of the group, but the kiln itself remains unexcavated.
Transportation The building is accessible within walking distance north of Yilan Station of Taiwan Railway.
Overview The kiln ruins are located in a valley southwest of Ashigaike in the central part of the Atsumi Peninsula.
The remains were found during the development of a housing complex and consist of the remains of four kilns, a workshop, and an ash field.
The site is believed to have been in operation from the latter half of the 6th century to the 7th century AD.
Pine tar oil, or wood tar oil, is used for the surface treatment of wooden shingle roofs, boats, buckets, and tubs, and in the medicine, soap, and rubber industries.
However, later excavations found that roof tiles predating the Fujiwara-kyō Palace were used in the local Myon-ji temple ruins and the Hōdō-ji temple ruins in Marugame came from this kiln.
Per an archaeological excavation conducted in 1965, 25 clay mining pits, 12 workshops, two pit dwellings, and 19 kilns were found in three locations on a plateau overlooking long and narrow paddy fields.
One kiln remains and was listed along with the jetty under the name of Wool Bay Lime Kiln & Jetty on the South Australian Heritage Register on 28 November 1985.
If the pieces are heated too high, instead of the desired celadon color, the pieces will turn brown.
At the turn of the 20th century, the food industry began to rely increasingly on glass and canned food storage along with refrigeration.
Overview The Obata Kitayama site is located on a plateau at an elevation of 22.5 to 27 meters, on the southern bank of the Hinuma River and is Japan's largest known haniwa production site.
The Piedmont Charcoal Kilns in Piedmont, Wyoming, are a remnant of a once-extensive charcoal-making industry in southwestern Wyoming.
The Kasaya Kofun Group, the Torazuka Kofun Group, and the Nagahori Kofun Group are located about two kilometers from this site, which is considered to be the source of haniwa used at those tumuli.
Recent interest in the Rockingham Works has seen the erection of a commemorative sculpture in Swinton in 2003, and a community heritage project at the site in 2021, directed by the artist Carlos Cortes.
The large, flat-style kiln had a length of 13.8 meters and width of 3.64 meters, of which only the bottom portion has survived.
The Dodo Sue Ware Kiln Site (百々陶器窯跡, Dodo Sue-ki kama ato) is an archaeological site containing late Heian to early Kamakura period kilns located in the Mutsure neighborhood of the city of Tahara, Aichi in the Tōkai region of Japan.
The kiln structure with no steps between firing chambers and the product features reminiscent of porcelain production techniques are similar to those of the Korean Peninsula.
For many years since closure, the quarry served as storage for road building materials, and a tipple for them was built, but was soon abandoned.
The site is now an archaeological park, with one of the kilns restored, and a museum displaying artifacts recovered.
Muneyoshi Tile Kiln Site ruins (宗吉瓦窯跡, Muneyoshi gayō ato) is an archaeological site consisting of the remains of twenty-one Asuka to Nara period kilns located in what is now the Mino neighborhood of the city of Mitoyo, Kagawa Prefecture on the island of Shikoku Japan.
In Finland, wood tar was once considered a panacea reputed to heal "even those cut in twain through their midriff".
The site is contemporary with the Daikichiyama tile kiln ruins and both kilns supplied the various government administrative complexes (such as at the Higashiyama Kanga ruins) located around the province.
Early kilns The common feature of early kilns was an egg-cup shaped burning chamber, with an air inlet at the base (the "eye"), constructed of brick.
The other kiln was a square, flat, kiln, with the firing port facing northeast and a built-in base with several fire grooves.
See also Lime Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Charcoal Kilns, Eureka, Utah, NRHP-listed Frisco Charcoal Kilns, Milford, Utah, NRHP-listed == References ==
The Daikichiyama Kilns are one of several kilns which have been found within what is now Miyagi Prefecture dating from this period.
During the Japanese colonial period, the tile kiln industry in the Dashu area flourished, with about twenty-three factories and more than one hundred and thirty kilns at its peak, making Dashu the main production and distribution center for tiles in Taiwan.
By using firing temperatures in excess of 1000 deg C, reduction flame firing became possible, resulting in a hard blue-grey pottery that had less porosity than previous techniques.
The oven itself is inside the hovel and is cylindrical in shape with domed roof and foot (30cm) thick walls.
The Six Ancient Kilns -JAPAN HERITAGE- The Six Oldest Pottery Centers in Japan 古丹波 その歴史と美 | Old Tamba Pottery Museum Six Ancient Kilns of Japan
Six more kilns capable of high yield bricks were added and the bricks produced here was branded the Taiwan Renga.
The kilns and surrounding area have been preserved as the Oribe-no-sato Park, and there is an exhibition room for relics excavated at site.
Kiln furniture are devices and implements inside furnaces used during the heating of manufactured individual pieces, such as pottery, other ceramic or metal components.
All of the kilns are anagama-style kilns, and traces of ash spread 80 meters east-west and 30 meters north-south in the valley in front of the ruins.
Finally the pile is sealed airtight with a mix of ash and charcoal pieces (possibly known as 'culm' or 'brusque'; German: Lösche, Stübbe, Stibbe or Gestübe) and earth, with the exception of the central chimney.
From the numerous roof tiles uncovered, the temple also had a strong connection to the Shimotsuke Yakushi-ji which also dates from the same period, and also with the Yūki temple ruins.
This temperature differential results in mechanical stresses throughout the molten glass, which may be sufficient to cause the material to crack as it cools to ambient temperature or to make it susceptible to cracking during later use, either spontaneously or due to mechanical or thermal shock.
The Shuili Snake Kiln Ceramics Cultural Park (traditional Chinese: 水里蛇窯陶藝文化園區; simplified Chinese: 水里蛇窑陶艺文化园区; pinyin: Shìlín Zhǐ Chǎng) is a ceramic kiln in Dingkan Village, Shuili Township, Nantou County, Taiwan.
Overview The Suenosue kiln site is located on a southern slope of a hill and is believed to date from the 6th century.
Known as "B" kiln because it was the second to be discovered, it is believed to have been in use between the 1640s and 1650s.
It was used as an official kiln for Karatsu Domain from the mid- to late Edo period, and was subsequently used by the Nakazato family until the Taisho era.
The kilns were semi-underground, stepless noborigama climbing kilns, with a kiln floor with a slope of about 20°.
Access to the interior was provided by a "clammin", an opening sized to allow a placer (a worker carrying a saggar) to enter.
Though the community had only been settled in 1870, by the end of the decade it had a post office, school, newspaper, and almost 1000 residents.
In 1994, the Association participated in community activities and workshops for community development, reviving Dashu residents’ memories of and enthusiasm for brick and tile kilns.
The zhenyao "egg-shaped kiln", developed for Jingdezhen ware in the late Ming dynasty, is in some ways a compromise between mantou and dragon kilns, like a stretched mantou kiln.
Archaeological excavations of the site began from 1988, and the area was opened to the public as the "Haniwa Factory Park".
In the front, there was a field of ash where ashes from firing and failed roof tiles were discarded.
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) The clinker burning process is a high-temperature process resulting in the formation of nitrogen oxides (NOx).
The soil and techniques of these tiles match those of the tiles used in the Naniwa Palace, which Emperor Shōmu started constructing in 726 AD.
The Walker Charcoal Kiln is a structure in the Prescott National Forest near the town of Walker, Arizona and situated in the vicinity of the abandoned Poland Junction Mine near the summit of Renegade Hill.
It was first isolated from the rumen fluid of Hanwoo cattle in South Korea and described as a novel species in 2022.
Epiphytic bacteria are removed from the plant surface through ultraviolet radiation, chemical surface disinfection, and washing .
In current studies it has been determined that epiphytic bacteria generally doesn't harm the plant, but promote the formation of ice crystals.
These heterotrophic microbes, which produce CO2 as a waste product of respiration and possibly organic acids, may help to dissolve the carbonate.
coli strains are present in a water sample allows researchers to make assumptions about whether the contamination originated from a human, another mammal, or a bird.
eutactus is also recognized as a butyrate-producing bacterium, contributing to colonic health by fermenting dietary fibers into short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs).
Individual strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Neisseria meningitidis can contain multiple, independently switching mod genes; for example, N.
It was first described in 2013 to accommodate the newly isolated species Fusicatenibacter saccharivorans, a butyrate-producing anaerobe from human feces.
References External links Type strain of Thermoanaerobacter italicus at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
These expressions let Atribacterota to be able to create catabolic and anabolic functions which are necessary to generate cellular reproduction, even when the energy levels are limited due to the depletion of dissolved oxygen in the areas of sea waters, fresh waters, or ground waters.
Rhodopirellula caenicola is a Gram-negative, strictly aerobic and non-motile bacterium from the genus of Rhodopirellula which has been isolated from isolated from iron sand.
Cell growth which gives rise to reproductive asymmetry occurs in three phases: stalk elongation, daughter cell elongation, and septum formation.
Escherichia are facultative aerobes, with both aerobic and anaerobic growth, and an optimum temperature of 37 °C.
Butyrate serves as a primary energy source for colonocytes and plays a role in reducing inflammation, enhancing gut barrier integrity, and modulating immune responses.
Site-specific recombination Site-specific recombinations are usually short and occur at a single target site within the recombining sequence.
History Victivallis vadensis was originally known as strain CelloT, as it is able to use cellobiose as a carbon source.
"Clostridium paradoxum DSM 7308T contains multiple 16S rRNA genes with heterogeneous intervening sequences".
ubique whose small 1.3 Mb genome is seemingly devoid of extraneous genetic elements like non-coding DNA, transposons, extrachromosomal elements etc.
Ultramicrobacteria have also been recovered from soil and appear to be a mixture of gram-positive, gram-negative and cell-wall-lacking species.
Several of its carotenoid metabolic pathways (including a novel lycopene cyclase) have similar counterparts in cyanobacteria.
Holdemanella porci is a species of Gram-positive, strictly anaerobic bacteria in the family Erysipelotrichaceae.
References Further reading Cayol, Jean-Luc; Fardeau, Marie-Laure; Garcia, Jean-Louis; Ollivier, Bernard (2002).
Cetobacterium ceti is a Gram-negative, and rod-shaped obligately anaerobic bacterium from the genus Cetobacterium which has been isolated from sea mammals.
References External links Type strain of Haliangium ochraceum at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Fecal contamination usually occurs through excretion by bathers, other animals, or contaminated water sources.
The genus was established in 2020 following the isolation of its type species, Absicoccus porci, from pig feces in South Korea.
"Biochemical Evidence for Formate Transfer in Syntrophic Propionate-Oxidizing Cocultures of Syntrophobacter fumaroxidans and Methanospirillum hungatei".
Solidesulfovibrio aerotolerans is a Gram-negative, mesophilic, sulphate-reducing and oxygen tolerant bacterium from the genus of Solidesulfovibrio which has been isolated from activated sludge in Denmark.
It can be commensal (innocuous, coexisting organism) in the gastrointestinal tract of humans and animals, but it may also be pathogenic, causing diseases such as neonatal meningitis or endocarditis.
This regulation of other surface elements favors the formation and use of cellulose degrading enzymes.
The several different surface antigen proteins are all silent apart from one and all share a conserved region at the 5' end.
Phylogeny The currently accepted taxonomy is based on the List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature (LPSN) and National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) == References ==
faecium isolates often varied and adapted their substrate usage even within the same patient, indicating high intra-host metabolic diversity.
Ecology Cyanobacteria can be found in almost every terrestrial and aquatic habitat – oceans, fresh water, damp soil, temporarily moistened rocks in deserts, bare rock and soil, and even Antarctic rocks.
The most important of these proteins is relaxase, which is responsible for beginning the conjugation process by cutting at the nic site via transesterification.
It has also been recognized as a causative agent of enteritis in cattle, but it is an uncommon human pathogen.
TraM plays a particularly important role in relaxase interaction by stimulating 'relaxed' DNA formation.
Chromosomal cpe (c-cpe) strains are exclusively isolated from food samples, while p-cpe strains are found in non-food borne samples.
Deferrisoma palaeochoriense is a thermophilic, anaerobic and mixotrophic bacterium from the genus Deferrisoma which has been isolated from a hydrothermal vent from the Palaeochori Bay from Greece.
Cable bacteria are defined by their function rather than their phylogeny, and it is possible that further cable bacteria taxa will be discovered.
It was originally isolated from a geothermal aquifer more than 500 m below the surface of the Earth.
morganii can produce the enzyme catalase, so it is able to convert hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen.
It was first isolated from the gastrointestinal tract of pigs and described in 2020 as part of a large-scale effort to culture and characterize pig gut microbiota.
tertium distinguishes itself from other clostridia as a non-toxin producing, aerotolerant, non-histotoxic and non-lipolytic species.
eutactus has been associated with various health benefits, including a lower risk of colorectal cancer and improved metabolic outcomes.
However, these cases suggest that the bacteria may be low-virulence and may be a larger threat to elderly and immunocompromised populations.
A phylogenetic analysis of 20 genes and pseudogenes, isolated to 5 conserved protein genes, was used to construct phylogenetic trees displaying long terminal branches from the nodes, suggesting speciation occurred long ago.
The genus is known for producing many types of antibiotics, including Vancomycin, obtained from Amycolatopsis orientalis, is being used for infections resistant to other antibiotics.
(2002) The response of field-grown rice to inoculation with a multi-strain biofertiliser in the Hanoi district, Vietnam.
Metallogenium is a proposed genus of bacteria that has an affinity to form star-shaped manganese oxide minerals.
The organism is catalase- and oxidase-negative, produces acid from mannose, and tolerates up to 1% NaCl.
The genus was first described in 2021 following the isolation and genome-based characterization of the type species, Inconstantimicrobium porci, from the feces of a domestic pig in Germany.
The growth range is 35 to 75 °C and pH 5.5 to 8.5, with the optimum growth conditions of 63 °C at pH 7.5.
The proteinases are capable of digesting burn eschars, and may be useful for removal of burn tissue from wounds.
Through SSM the TA repeat region can undergo addition or subtraction of TA dinucleotides which results in the reversible ON phase or OFF phase of transcription of the hifA and hifB.
It has a commensal relationship within the intestinal tracts of humans, mammals, and reptiles as normal flora.
Biberstein, an American bacteriologist Bizionia – Bartolomeo Bizio, an Italian naturalist Blautia – Michael Blaut, a German microbiologist Bordetella – Jules Bordet, a Belgian microbiologist Borkar – Suresh Borkar, an Indian scientist Borrelia – Amédée Borrel, a French scientist Bosea – J.
Depletion of oxygen in such zones leads to preference of anaerobic processes such as denitrification and nitrogen loss through anammox.
References External links https://web.archive.org/web/20110605181224/http://www.mun.ca/biochem/courses/4103/topics/catabintro.html http://pathmicro.med.sc.edu/mayer/geneticreg.htm
pyriformis is able to synthesize at least five protein-forming amino acids including selenocysteine.
Phase-variation of the modA2 allele also results in NTHi populations with distinct advantages under oxidative stress and increased resistance to neutrophil killing.
Bacteria of this phylum share several of their characteristics with other ultra-small bacteria, nanometric size, small genomes, reduced metabolism, and low capacity to synthesize nucleotides and aminoacids.
Asymmetrical growth aids in determining the age of bacteria, because it gives rise to an old pole, or region of inert cell wall material found at the ends of a rod-shaped bacterial cell.
The name of the genus comes from Gelre (present province of Gelderland), one of the 12 provinces in The Netherlands.
lepromatosis is an obligate intracellular parasite that reproduces only in host cells, a fact that researchers have speculated explains why its culturing in the laboratory has been unsuccessful.
Paraclostridium bifermentans, formerly known as Clostridium bifermentans and abbreviated CLOBI, is an anaerobic, motile, gram-positive bacterium.
Composite inoculants The combination of strains of Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) has been shown to benefit rice and barley.
The following are implicit in the colonization process: ability to survive inoculation onto seed, to multiply in the spermosphere (region surrounding the seed) in response to seed exudates, to attach to the root surface, and to colonize the developing root system.
leprae, has not been cultured in the laboratory because it lacks genes necessary to grow outside its hosts.
"Pure Culture of Syntrophus buswellii, Definition of its Phylogenetic Status, and Description of Syntrophus gentianae sp.
Under controlled continuous plant conditions, the number of bacterial cells and their activity is optimised to attain the highest rate of sulfide oxidation.
In the pushing mode, the rotating flagella (assembled in a bundle or as an open tuft of individual filaments) drive the motion from the rear end of the cell body.
Wallrabenstein, Christina; Gorny, Norbert; Springer, Nina; Ludwig, Wolfgang; Schink, Bernhard (1995).
LcrV is a multifunctional protein that has been shown to act at the level of secretion control by binding the Ysc inner-gate protein LcrG and to modulate the host immune response by altering cytokine production.
nov., a sulfur-disproportionating bacterium isolated from a hot spring, and emended description of the genus Caldimicrobium".
Rather, research efforts have typically sampled much larger volumes of water and made comparisons from one sampling site to another.
By oxidation of nitrite to nitrate they are important in the process of nitrification in marine environments.
For example, diabetes can cause intestinal neuropathy, pancreatitis, leading to pancreatic insufficiency can impair digestive enzyme production, and bile may be affected as part of cirrhosis of the liver.
A pilus on the F+ cell interacts with the recipient cell allowing formation of a mating junction, the DNA is nicked on one strand, unwound and transferred to the recipient.
Indeed, of the 80 newly released TB-infected inmates in Fry et al.'s study, 73.8% did not report visiting a community dispensary for further treatment.
tertium has been isolated in neutropenic and nonneutropenic patients, and in cases of necrotizing fasciitis and gangrene.
Eukaryotic flagella are complex cellular projections that lash back and forth, rather than in a circular motion.
Newer phylogenetic studies have found that Entomoplasmatales was not monophyletic like Tully had believed, but paraphyletic.
It produces penicillin amidase used to make synthetic penicillin, various amylases used in the baking industry and glucose dehydrogenase used in glucose blood tests.
morganii strains are resistant to penicillin, ampicillin/sulbactam, oxacillin, first-generation and second-generation cephalosporins, macrolides, lincosamides, fosfomycin, colistin, and polymyxin B.
Pro-legitimate Candidatus names compete with each other for priority, but do not compete with "real" legitimate names.
Types There are different types of bacteria that are found in swimming pools and other types of recreational waters.
tepidum contains genes that play an important role in the methylation of the C-8 and C-12 carbons of bacteriochlorophyll C.
On the subject of the ETC, an adaptation to living in the mine environment is in the use of different ETC electron acceptors to neutralophiles; sulfur, arsenic, selenium, uranium, iron, and manganese in solid form rather than O2 (most commonly Fe in dissimilatory iron reduction, frequent in AMD).
is a strain of Staphylococcus aureus that gives resistance to vancomycin at a frequency of 10−6 colonies or even higher.
Its cells are gram-negative and are approximately 2.4–3.9 micrometres long and 0.5–0.6 micrometres wide; they are motile rods with polar flagella.
C novyi type A alpha-toxin is unique in using UDP-N-acetylglucosamine rather than UDP-glucose as a substrate.
Crabtree, an American microbiologist Crossiella – Thomas Cross, a British microbiologist Dasania – Dasan, a Korean scientist Deleya – Jozef De Ley, a Belgian microbiologist Derxia – H.
"The Intracellular pH of Clostridium paradoxum, an Anaerobic, Alkaliphilic, and Thermophilic Bacterium." Applied and Environmental Microbiology 62.12 (1996): 4576–4579.
The archaea of the Nanobdellati kingdom are ultra-small archaea that share the same characteristics with these bacteria and are the most basal group of the archaeo-eukaryotic clade, although it can also be paraphyletic of eukaryotes and the other archaea as will be seen below.
Wefers, Daniel; Dong, Jia; Abdel-Hamid, Ahmed M.; Paul, Hans Müller; Pereira, Gabriel V.; Han, Yejun; Dodd, Dylan; Baskaran, Ramiya; Mayer, Beth; Mackie, Roderick I.; Cann, Isaac; Kelly, Robert M.
Campylobacter jejuni is not competent until the exogenous genetic material is confirmed by the cell to be Campylobacter jejuni DNA.
It was discovered by Harrison et al., 2014 to be due to a species nova which they named Candidatus Phytoplasma palmicola and assigned to novel Candidatus Phytoplasma subgroup 16SrXXII-B.
aureus within the general population and significant number of severe infections caused by this bacteria, decolonization protocols have been implemented in many hospital networks to decrease MRSA infections.
Phosphorus can cause eutrophication, and hydrogen sulfide can be toxic to marine life, meaning that cable bacteria play an important role in maintaining marine ecosystems in coastal areas.
References External links Type strain of Blautia obeum at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
"Sulfate Reduction and Possible Aerobic Metabolism of the Sulfate-Reducing Bacterium Desulfovibrio oxyclinae in a Chemostat Coculture with Marinobacter sp.
In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published Rapid Bioassessment Protocols, in 1999, based on measuring macroinvertebrates, as well as periphyton and fish for assessment of water quality.
Varibaculum anthropi is a Gram-positive and strictly anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium from the genus of Varibaculum which was first isolated from human urine from Gothenburg in Sweden.
It is possible that moonmilk forms when water dissolves and softens the karst in caves, carrying dissolved nutrients that are used by microbes, such as Actinomycetes.
However, it is not mandatory, or even customary, when giving the name of a species, to include the subgeneric name.
Species As of July 2025, the genus Absicoccus includes only one validly published species: Absicoccus porci References External links LPSN entry for Absicoccus NCBI Taxonomy Browser: Absicoccus BacDive entry for Absicoccus porci
Xenophyophores are multinucleate unicellular organisms found on the ocean floor throughout the world's oceans, at depths of 500 to 10,600 metres (1,600 to 34,800 ft).
Molecular Phylogenetic Characterization of High Altitude Soil Microbial Communities and Novel, Uncultivated Bacterial Lineages.
In zoological nomenclature, when a genus is split into subgenera, the originally described population is retained as the "nominotypical subgenus" or "nominate subgenus", which repeats the same name as the genus.
The fatal infection occurred in an 8-month-old girl with purpura fulminans and co-infection by Yersinia pseudotuberculosis.
This produces a solid neutralisation precipitate containing largely calcium sulfate, basic iron(III) arsenate and iron(III) hydroxide.
"Two Clusters among Mycoplasma haemomuris Strains, Defined by the 16S–23S rRNA Intergenic Transcribed Spacer Sequences".
With 107-1011 bacteria, 400-plus species, and variations between individuals, there are many complications in the study of a normal gastrointestinal system.
veterinary surgeon Samsonia – Régine Samson, a French phytobacteriologist Scardovia – Vittorio Scardovi, an Italian microbiologist Aeriscardovia, Parascardovia, Alloscardovia, Metascardovia: Schineria – Ignaz Rudolph Schiner, who first described the fly Wohlfahrtia magnifica Schlegelella – H.
In contrast to many bacilli-shaped bacteria, most cocci bacteria do not have flagella and are non-motile.
The plant can give upwards of 5-30% of its energy production to the fungi in exchange for increasing the root absorptive area with hyphae which gives the plant access to nutrients it would otherwise not be able to attain.
The T-DNA of the Ri-plasmid affects the plant host by modifying organ differentiation patterns, enhancing cell division, and making the abnormal tissue produce opines to feed the bacterium.
40 specimens of Marpolia are known from the Greater Phyllopod bed, where they comprise 0.08% of the community.
History Clostridium tertium was initially isolated from war wounds by Captain Herbert Henry (RAMC) in 1917, but it was not until the first human cases of C.
2024 Planococcaceae Peshkoff 1939 {Caryophanales Peshkoff 1939 [Bacillales_A]} "Rubeoparvulales" Staphylococcales Chuvochina et al.
For example, the platypus belongs to the genus Ornithorhynchus although George Shaw named it Platypus in 1799 (these two names are thus synonyms).
2023 Class "Kryptonia" "Kryptoniales" Class "Ignavibacteriia" Oren, Parte & Garrity 2016 ex Cavalier-Smith 2022 Ignavibacteriales Iino et al.
Within Plantae, Tracheophyta (vascular plants) make up the largest component, with 23,236 ± 5,379 accepted genus names, of which 20,845 ± 4,494 are angiosperms (superclass Angiospermae).
Caldimicrobium is an anaerobic thermophile which is roughly 1.0–1.2 micrometers long and 0.5 micrometers wide.
pyriformis, and especially its reduced mitochondria, was largely driven by the possibility that oxymonads might be completely amitochondrial.
adolescentis are also adept at metabolizing lactose, and may reduce symptoms associated with lactose intolerance.
Molecular approaches using microbial and plant mutants altered in their ability to synthesize or respond to specific phytohormones have increased understanding of the role of phytohormone synthesis as a direct mechanism of plant growth enhancement by PGPRs.
Studies have found unusually high concentrations of radioactive nuclides in xenophyophores; this was first reported in Occultammina but has since been found to be true of many other xenophyophore species from different parts of the ocean.
Characteristics Members of the genus Absicoccus are Gram-positive, non-motile, and non-spore-forming cocci.
Chlorobaculum tepidum, previously known as Chlorobium tepidum, is an anaerobic, thermophilic green sulfur bacteria first isolated from New Zealand.
thermophilus is one of the most isolated bacterial species.[4] See also List of Bacteria genera List of bacterial orders References 4.
When F-prime plasmids are transferred to a recipient bacterial cell, they carry pieces of the donor's DNA that can become important in recombination.
Despite only few described species, members of this phylum are major nitrite-oxidizing bacteria in surface waters in oceans.
VRE symptoms Enterococcus infections, including VRE infections, cause a range of symptoms depending on the site of the infection.
They grow under facultatively anaerobic conditions, with optimal growth at 37 °C on brain heart infusion agar.
Originally described under Desulfovibrio, it was reassigned to Fundidesulfovibrio by Galushko and Kuever in 2021.
Levilinea is a bacteria genus from the family of Anaerolineaceae with one known species (Levilinea saccharolytica).
They are able to produce viscous transparent exopolymers and grow attached to each other by the polymer in a three-dimensional configuration.
Absorption of DNA by competent cells can also contribute to DNA repair by creating a template for recombination, which has been specifically observed in Sulfolobus spp.
The genus was proposed following the reclassification of the species previously known as Olsenella faecalis, after genome sequencing and 16S rRNA gene analysis revealed that it formed a separate lineage distinct from other members of the genus Olsenella.
Hierarchy of ranks Zoology For some clades covered by the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, several additional classifications are sometimes used, although not all of these are officially recognized.
Further Information Complete genome sequence of Aminobacterium colombiense type strain (ALA-1T) Proteomes - Aminobacterium colombiense (strain DSM 12261 / ALA-1) == References ==
tepidum differs from other green sulfur bacteria in that it cannot easily use H2 or Fe2+ as electron donors, relying on elemental sulfur, sulfide, and thiosulfate instead.
Mod genes are the methyltransferase component of type III restriction modification (R-M) systems in bacteria, and serve to protect host DNA from the action of the associated restriction enzyme.
As Gram-negative bacteria, they have two cell-enveloping membranes, with each cell having its own individual inner cell membrane, but the outer cell membrane is shared by all cells in a filament.
aureus has a strong resistance to chlorine, which is one of the methods by which pools are often cleaned.
Acetate is converted by syntrophales into acetyl-CoA, which can be used as a source of carbon and energy.
Swine have been used repeatedly to understand the human decomposition process in terrestrial environments.
According to phylogenetic analysis, Atribacterota appears to be related to several thermophilic phyla within Pseudomonadati.
Studies have shown that the bacterium exhibits vegetative growth in soil rich in organic matter, and that spores were formed when nutrients were depleted.
Dethiosulfovibrio peptidovorans is an anaerobic, slightly halophilic, thiosulfate-reducing bacterium.
Zhenhengia is a genus of Gram-positive and strictly anaerobic bacteria in the family Lachnospiraceae.
obeum along with other relevant taxa play an important role both in the recovery process from Vibrio cholerae infection and microbiota maturation in children.
It is a commensal species with its host organism but has the ability to colonize and create infection.
Patients infected or colonized with VRE may be cared for in any patient care setting with minimal risk of transmission to other patients, provided appropriate infection control measures are taken.
Amycolatopsis carbonis showed broad antifungal activity against several filamentous fungi and also antibacterial activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Acinetobacter baumannii.
Several of these physical traits are of interest in the commercial breeding of horticultural and agricultural plants.
References Further reading Sashida, Hinakp; Sasaoka, Fumina; Suzuki, Jin; Fujihara, Masatoshi; Nagai, Kazuya; Fujita, Hiromi; Kadosaka, Teruki; Ando, Shuji; Harasawa, Ryo (2012).
Etymology The name Inconstantimicrobium is derived from Latin: inconstans ("variable" or "inconstant") and microbium ("microbe"), referring to its variable morphology and growth behavior.
Thus, the genes accountable for the toxicity towards Anopheles are different than those controlled by the cry operon; rather, the toxins selectively target Aedes mosquito larvae, in which they cause high mortality.
By using disinfectants over an extended period of time, decolonization decreases or minimizes patient bacterial load.
The relatively small size of ultramicrobacteria also enables parasitism of larger organisms; some ultramicrobacteria have been observed to be obligate or facultative parasites of various eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
Several cases of bacteremia have been attributed to prior infection or surgery on the biliary tract and liver, suggesting that E.
Although VRSA infections are uncommon, VRSA is often resistant to other types of antibiotics and a potential threat to public health because treatment options are limited.
Aminobacterium colombiense is a Gram-negative, mesophilic, strictly anaerobic and non-spore-forming bacterium from the genus of Aminobacterium which has been isolated from anaerobic lagoon from a dairy wastewater treatment plant in Colombia.
However, the name Platypus had already been given to a group of ambrosia beetles by Johann Friedrich Wilhelm Herbst in 1793.
Syntrophobacter fumaroxidans is a species of syntrophic propionate-degrading sulfate-reducing bacterium.
References External links Type strain of Aerococcus vaginalis at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
The conductivity of single, live filaments was later demonstrated by observing the oxidation state of cytochromes using Raman microscopy.
See also Drug resistance References Further reading Chang, Soju; Sievert, Dawn M.; Hageman, Jeffrey C.; Boulton, Matthew L.; Tenover, Fred C.; Downes, Frances Pouch; Shah, Sandip; Rudrik, James T.; Pupp, Guy R.
Heliothrix oregonensis is a phototrophic filamentous, gliding bacterium containing bacteriochlorophyll a that is aerotolerant and photoheterotrophic.
Organisms in this group are spherical and have a holdfast, at the tip of a thin cylindrical extension from the cell body called the stalk, at the nonreproductive end that helps them to attach to each other during budding.
The species was named italicus in reference to the Italian hot springs in which it was first isolated.
faecium have a higher mortality rate compared to those caused by Enterococcus faecalis (37% vs 32%).
Researchers discovered that it grows best in liquid or soft agar with one of the following sugars: cellobiose, fructose, galactose, glucose, lactose, lactulose, maltose, maltotriose, mannitol, melibiose, myo-inositol, raftilose, rhamnose, ribose, sucrose, and xylose, which it uses fermentatively.
Morphology Cloacibacillus evryensis is a Gram-negative nonmotile organism with rod shaped cells that are commonly seen as diplococci.
The npt I gene in place of the T-DNA in EHA101 requires that binary plasmids that are put into the strain encode a drug resistance other than kanamycin.
Lentimonas is a bacterial genus from the family of Puniceicoccaceae with one known species (Lentimonas marisflavi).
These factors consist of certain cell surface proteins and transcription factors that induce the uptake of DNA.
It was first described in 2021 based on the isolation of its type species, Floccifex porci, from the feces of a pig in Germany.
However, further 16S ribosomal RNA studies put this bacterium into genus Thermoanaerobacter and the previous genus was no longer necessary.
aureus) is a common cause of hospital related infections, including bloodstream infections and infections of the heart and bone.
For example, biophysical studies on its naturally supercoiled state have determined its radius of gyration to be 65.6 nm and its Stokes radius to be 43.6 nm.
Singulisphaera is a moderately acidophilic and mesophilic genus of bacteria from the family Isosphaeraceae.
The toxin is a large 250-kDa protein the active part of which is the NH2-terminal 551 amino acid fragment.
2024 (WPS2) Order "Eremiobacterales" Ward, Cardona & Holland-Moritz 2019 Family "Eremiobacteraceae" Ji et al.
Furthermore, they noted that the higher the pH of the pool, the more bacteria were present in the water.
"Introduction to Quaternary carbonate and evaporite sedimentary facies and their ancient analogues." Int.
Iron is absorbed in the more proximal parts of the small bowel, the duodenum and jejunum, and patients with malabsorption of iron can develop a microcytic anemia, with small red blood cells.
"Enzyme activities in and energetics of acetate metabolism by the mesophilic syntrophically acetate-oxidizing anaerobe Clostridium ultunense".
Ruminococcus are also less abundant in patients with Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
In these organisms the DNA methyltransferase phase varies between two states (ON or OFF) by variation in the number of SSRs in the mod gene.
When these two conditions are satisfied, it means for the bacteria that glucose is absent and lactose is available.
It seems they only attack collagenous material already partially degraded by the beta-toxin, and aid in the nutrition of H.
References External links LPSN entry for Paratractidigestivibacter NCBI Taxonomy Browser: Paratractidigestivibacter BacDive entry for Paratractidigestivibacter faecalis
"Oxygen-Dependent Growth of the Sulfate-Reducing Bacterium Desulfovibrio oxyclinae in Coculture withMarinobacter sp.
In those species which are inhabitants of the gastrointestinal tracts of warm-blooded animals, Escherichia species provide a portion of the microbially derived vitamin K for their host.
nov., an extremely thermophilic, facultatively lithoautotrophic, anaerobic bacterium from the Uzon Caldera, Kamchatka".
When these cells are then heat shocked (ex., 30 seconds at 42 degrees Celsius), they are able to take up both single or double stranded DNA and can either incorporate it into their genome, or the DNA can exist as a plasmid within the cell.
Grazzini was temperamental, his life consequently enlivened or disturbed by various literary quarrels.
Hudson, at the time of its publication, was practising as an apothecary in Panton Street, Haymarket, and from 1765 to 1771 acted as 'praefectus horti' to the Apothecaries' Company at the Chelsea Physic Garden.
He rejected the claim that Ireland was a conquered colony dependent on the government and parliament of Great Britain.
After the first 500 plates, Ehret realised that he was receiving a miserly payment and soon found new employment copying plates, while being able to produce other paintings independently.
He alleged that Shires had overstated his qualifications to gain the post of "Sergeant of the Confectionary", and had become a "servitour odoriferous" to the king.
Say was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the Tenth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Joseph Clay.
After honing his craft with Watts, Sherard moved to Mark Lane, London, where he started his own very successful business.
Margaret Douglas, Countess of Bothwell, whose husband Francis Stewart, 5th Earl of Bothwell was a rebel, had been shown some favour by the king at Hamilton Palace.
James Sherard (1 November 1666 – 12 February 1738) was an English apothecary, botanist, and amateur musician.
The other members included William Gregson, John Dobson, his cousin John Parr, Thomas Hodgson, Thomas Staniforth, George Case, Samuel Shaw, John Backhouse and James Caruthers.
Otto Tachenius wrote an Apologia in 1652 in which he declared Dieterich as a pseudo-chimicum (false chemist) and a fraud.
By his wife, Judith Chamberlaine, he had a son Abraham, who married Anne, daughter of Sir Richard Sandys of Northbourne Court, Kent; and a daughter, Anne, married to Sir Richard Sprignell, bart., of Coppenthorpe, Yorkshire.
He had been interested in ornithology from a young age and wished to make knowledge more widely available and had been especially influenced by the work of Emil Adolf Rossmässler.
He wrote parts of the multi-volume work Die Schmetterlinge Europas (The Lepidoptera of Europe), published in 1908.
Philippe Sylvestre Dufour (born Manosque 1622, died Vevey (Canton de Vaud) 1687) was a French Protestant apothecary, banker, collector, and writer based in Lyon.
Bernard was lampooned as "Horoscope" in Samuel Garth's The Dispensary: Bernard communicated to William Lilly in 1664 a theory on horoscopes for cities, and its application to the prediction of fires in London.
Several days later he found that the styrol had thickened, presumably due to polymerisation, into a jelly which he dubbed styrol oxide ("Stryroloxyd").
James MacCartney was a Scottish medical practitioner and apothecary in Edinburgh in the 1590s who collected information for the English diplomat Robert Bowes.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl (English: Ephraim Rinhold Seehl) (died in 1783) was an apothecary and chemist of German background, born in Sweden.
She managed the pharmacy until 1682, when she retired in favor of her son-in-law Jakob Leonard Allmacher (1652–1724).
He was appointed as the joint Professor of Anatomy to the Town’s College (which became the University of Edinburgh in 1708) to join Robert Eliot, who had been appointed in 1705, was the first to hold that post and was the first Professor of Anatomy in Britain.
Johnson knew little of Levet's background, but he seemed to cherish the awkward, unpolished man nonetheless.
Death and legacy Chase died without issue on 23 June 1721 leaving his estate to his widow and Dr Stephen Chase, the eldest son of his cousin, also Stephen Chase.
487-496 Observation sur les différents sels que l'on retire par la lixiviation des cendres du tamaris, pris en différents lieux, Académie royale des sciences, 1779, p.
In 1763, he repaid money that he had borrowed from the Lathrops, repurchased the family homestead that his father had sold when deeply in debt, and resold it a year later for a substantial profit.
After witnesses were interviewed and depositions given, the House of Representative voted that Myers was the winner of the election.
Silvanus subsequently married Martha Heathcote, the daughter of Gilbert Heathcote (1664-1719), a Quaker physician to King William III of England.
From 1707 to 1751, he published numerous articles in the Histoire et Mémoires de l'Académie royale des sciences.
David and Susan had nine children: David, Susan (who later became the sister-in-law to John Davis), Samuel, Mary, Jacob Morton, Sophia, William Brown, John, and Martha.
He is not to be confused with Ottmar Hofmann who was an entomologist specialising in Lepidoptera as well.
Background In the 1960s, there was increasing interest in Ontario for the historic preservation of buildings to prevent their demolition.
That training consisted mostly of apothecary study, as well as the occasional attendance at medical lectures.
Allen is known to have lived as a girl with the family of Joel Barlow, the poet and diplomat, and a friend of Craigie.
There is evidence that his nomination and acceptance into the Académie des Sciences was based on the importance of his publications on pharmacology rather than on his credentials as a scientific researcher, contrary to the usual practice of the day.
Shortly afterwards, the corporation having resolved to farm the revenues of the city to a certain Alderman, Lucas denounced the affair as a job, and the council in which the resolution had been passed as packed.
Her and her daughters’ Lutheran beliefs were publicly reaffirmed in their respective funeral sermons.
1787-1805 he worked as "druggist, medicine," from offices "three doors below the Drawbridge, Ann Street." He had trained "with Mr.
When they disobeyed, he bound them using sorcery." In spite of this incident, it seems that the Court continued to highly evaluate the herbal knowledge of Ozunu's school, since Vol.
Petiver received many specimens, seeds and much other material from overseas correspondents including Samuel Browne and Edward Bulkley in Madras, Jezreel Jones in Barbary, and the Czech Jesuit Georg Joseph Kamel in Manila.
Wiegleb was notably the teacher of Sigismund Friedrich Hermbstädt and Johann Friedrich August Göttling.
Political allegiance In the 1745 Jacobite uprising the Jacobite army under Prince Charles Edwart Stuart defeated a Government army under the command of General Sir John Cope at the Battle of Prestonpans.
He lived piously to the age of ninety-seven years, and worth (notwithstanding his many acts of publick and private charity) near as many thousand pounds as he was years, having thirty-seven children by one wife, and about sixty grandchildren at his funeral.
Her stepdaughter from this marriage, Sibylla of Anhalt, followed her influence and kept a court pharmacy at Stuttgart and Leonberg.
When that monarch determined in 1617 to incorporate the Society of Apothecaries, 114 apothecaries, being his majesty's ‘natural subjects,’ were nominated as members.
He ran as the Democratic party candidate for Pennsylvania's 3rd congressional district and on October 13, 1869, was determined the winner over Leonard Myers.
Parr and John Welch owned a slave-ship called Briton and in 1762 it was sent on a slave voyage to the Kingdom of Whydah in West Africa.
The Landuccis had twelve children together, and Luca remained at this location until his death in 1516.
En no Gyōja was conferred the posthumous title Jinben Daibosatsu (Great Bodhisattva Jinben, 神変大菩薩) at a ceremony held in 1799 to commemorate the one-thousandth year of his passing.
Supported by independent means, Ziz devoted himself to botany, undertaking field trips as far afield as southern France and the Pyrenees.
A letter of June 1596 mentioned a possible border raid near Carlisle and that Anne of Denmark, who was now pregnant, was moving to Dunfermline Palace, at the suggestion of the Octavians, a group of financial administrators with some overlap with her council.
He himself was not very proficient in Latin although he was a member of several scholarly societies and an educated gentleman.
The Ghibellines took over Florence at the Battle of Montaperti in 1260, forcing out many of the Guelphs.
Tenzing, a Tibetan title, means illustrious or divine, and momo is a yak-filled dumpling, so says manager Erik Smith...
He gained his doctorate in Freiburg with a monograph on the genus Cinchona ("Monographie der Gattung Cinchona L.").
Renward Brandstetter, Renward Cysat, 1545-1614: der Begründer der schweizerischen Volkskunde (1909).
Adam Drummond was born on the family estate at Megginch in Perthshire and went to the local school in Errol before matriculating at St.
He collaborated with Frederik Ruysch on the first volume of Jan Commelijn's "Horti Medici Amstelodamensis Rariorum" which appeared in 1697 and dealt mainly with plants from the East and West Indies.
At the time it was owned by Esther Ipp Schwartz, who had offered it to folklorist Don Yoder for study.
Agen in the early 17th century was at the crossroads of the religious debate revolving around the new Protestant faith.
Since 1875, a collection of his mosses has been kept at the British Museum of Natural History (250 specimens in 5 fascicles).
This was due not only to the preparation of new salts, but also to an increasing ability to distinguish between sodium and potassium compounds, and to a generalization of the concept so as to include many substances, such as the alums and vitriols (i.e., sulfates), that had been previously excluded.
Craigie was also fundamental in convincing Middlesex County authorities to move the Middlesex County Courthouse (Massachusetts) from Harvard Square to a new Charles Bulfinch-designed building in East Cambridge.
He served in the American Revolution and worked as a shoemaker before, in 1787, moving to Chambersburg, Pennsylvania and taking up work as an apothecary.
Surgical career On his return to Edinburgh, Drummond was admitted to the Incorporation of Surgeons in 1707 and established a practice as a surgeon-apothecary in the Lawnmarket in Edinburgh.
On completion of his apprenticeship he went, as was the custom of the day, for further education at a continental University.
That may have been because it was the custom of the time to add the name of his father after death, or because "Dr.
In 1741, he published his Pharmacomastix, or the Office, Use, and Abuse of Apothecaries Explained, and had the satisfaction of seeing the former act renewed.
His descendants are spread across Canada, most of all those of John Sage, who adopted the Arnold surname.
Ziz died unmarried on 1 December 1829 in Mainz; his extensive herbarium was bequeathed to the Grand Ducal Museum in Darmstadt but was destroyed during the 1944 air raids.
He possessed an estate at Roxton, Bedfordshire, the manor of Sharsted, Kent, where some of his descendants still resided as of the 19th century, a mansion in Blackfriars, London, and extensive property in Virginia and the Bermudas.
Legacy "The town of Redford, in Clinton County, in the north-east corner of the State of New York, was named for him." References Works Committee on the Subject of Pauperism and a House of Industry (1821).
Their daughter Elizabeth married James Stuart who served three terms of office as Lord Provost of Edinburgh.
"Les grands voyages de Jean Mocquet, apothicaire et garde du "Cabinet des Singularitez" de Louis XIII aux Tuileries (Suite et fin)".
1705 Reasons against Imposing Prisedg Wines in Scotland The Age of the World …the Case of John Sproul… Bibliography Robert Wodrow had papers on John Spreul.
In this he created a major systematic division of the asteroids and ophiuroids based on the presence or absence of the ambulacral groove.
From 1706 he worked at this father's pharmacy in Naumburg and from 1710 he went back to Leipzig and worked with his brother.
Upon Camerarius' death in 1598, Besler had the remainder of Camerarius' plants moved to Eichstätt and carried on the work of planting and supervision.
William Clarke was married twice, first to Martha (last name is unknown) who bore him three children - Joseph, William and Anne.
When the French Academy of Sciences was founded in 1666, Jean-Baptiste Colbert was assigned by Louis XIV to select members and he appointed Samuel Cottereau du Clos and Claude Bourdelin who were both associated with medicine.
He returned to England in 1753, proceeding to Bath, and after a series of elaborate experiments conducted in public he went to London, where he established himself in practice.
In 1690, he published a plant catalogue of this garden under the title "Horti Beaumontiani: Exoticarum Plantarum Catalogus ...".
Honours 1776 accommodation into Leopoldina Publications Chemische Versuche über die alkalischen Salze.
He was a great benefactor to the Apothecaries' Company, having been ‘a principal means for the procuring of the said company to be made a corporation,’ and for the purchase of Apothecaries' Hall, where a massive marble bust of him is preserved.
Katherine had three children from a previous marriage to Edward Storer, including daughter Katherine as well as sons Edward and Arthur Storer.
The Gypsies Metamorphosed In the text of the "Windsor Epilogue" of Ben Jonson's 1621 masque, The Gypsies Metamorphosed, Rumler is said to have provided make-up to darken the actors' faces.
By what reason and means that murdering principle is taught and carried on; who were accessory to the contrivance of murdering; who were to be murdered; and also as to the archbishop of St Andrews's murder.
Normally the sight of prayer flags and the smell of incense repel me, but the store’s herbs and other products, along with the knowledgeable service, have made Tenzing Momo part of my regular routine...
On June 16, Arnold inspected West Point while on his way home to Connecticut to take care of personal business, and he sent a highly detailed report through the secret channel.
In 1753 he proved the chemical element bismuth to be distinct from lead, becoming the official discoverer of the element.
In 1540 he was among the founders of the Accademia degli Umidi, which was soon renamed Accademia Fiorentina.
William Hudson FRS (1730 in Kendal – 23 May 1793) was a British botanist and apothecary based in London.
As an aviculturist he maintained nearly 150 bird species and in the course of a decade managed to breed nearly 63 species including several African weaverbirds for the first time in captivity.
Ernst Hofmann (1837 Frankfurt am Main – 1892 Stuttgart) was a German entomologist who specialised in Lepidoptera.
In addition to dried herbs, the store carries spices, mixers, incense, bath products, tarot cards, and all-natural remedies.
It was believed Charles had received other unofficial instructions, so the council sent a delegation that included Dante to Rome to persuade the Pope not to send Charles to Florence.
External links Ownership inscription of Hugh Morgan WorldCat References Sources Bradford, Charles Angell (1939).
Gideon Delaune, Robert Johnstone, and the Lombard Street goldsmith William Terry were executors of the goldsmith George Heriot, who made a bequest to found a school in Edinburgh now known as George Heriot's School.
The book contains a family register recording births, marriages, and deaths; his own death was noted in the ledger by one of his children.
He is also referred to by the name En no Gyōja (役 行者; Japanese pronunciation: [en no ɡʲoꜜː.(d)ʑa, eꜜn no ɡʲoː.(d)ʑa], lit.
During the English invasions of Rio de la Plata, he had provided medicines and provided his aid to the patriots wounded.
For many years this bust occupied such a position as to be virtually excluded from sight; but in 1846 it was placed on a bracket at the upper end of the hall.
In the 19th century novel Nansou Satomi Hakkenden, the spirit of En no Gyoja gifts the Satomi family a magical japamala as a ward against their curse, which is later divided to become the personal talismans of the eponymous Eight Dog Warriors.
Historisch-kritische Untersuchung der Alchemie oder der eingebildeten Goldmacherkunst, von ihrem Ursprunge sowohl als Fortgange, und was nun von ihr zu halten sey.
He called skippers "hogs", swallowtails "Royal Williams", walls as "Enfield Eyes" and marbled whites as "Half-Mourners".
Simon distilled an oily substance from storax, the resin of the Sweetgum tree, Liquidambar orientalis, which he named "styrol".
His efforts in parliament proving unsuccessful, he published a pamphlet entitled A Mirror for Courts-Martial: in which the Complaints, Trial, Sentence, and Punishment of David Blakeney are examined.
In December 1595 MacCartney and the surgeon James Henrysoun were asked to perform an autopsy on Jonet Lyle who was thought to have been poisoned.
Leaving public service, he also gave up his medical practice and concentrated on his pharmacy business.
References Biographical Directory of the US Congress (unlike other sources, lists his birth year as c.
He demanded that the settlers should surrender their weapons, and that all prisoners should be released.
His popularity earned him the office of Secretary in 1769, which involved running in yearly elections against candidates who would often run smear campaigns in the newspaper.
The election was contested by Leonard Myers on the grounds that several wards in Philadelphia submitted false results.
For his work in endowing the professorship, Sherard was granted a doctorate in medicine by the university in 1731.
In 1819 he was appointed teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium, later adding the titles Medizinalrat and Professor.
Death Jackson died on September 17, 1801, at his home in Oxford, Pennsylvania, and is buried in the Oxford Cemetery in Chester County, Pennsylvania.
The pharmacy is still part of Merck KGaA, but the original building was destroyed during World War II in the bombing campaigns, and therefore it is a new construction.
28 September 1628 – 9 February 1698) was an English apothecary, astrologer and physician, known for his large medical library.
In the 17th century, the only women pharmacists where widows who inherited their license from their late husbands.
In 1650 he returned to Montpellier in France, where he took care of his lifelong friend Philippe Jacques de Maussac, who died that same year.
During this time he started his scientific work, which later became the basis for the discovery of morphine.
La Spiritata (1561) I Parentadi La Arenga La Sibilla La Pinzochera L'Arzigogolo A number of miscellaneous poems, a few letters and Four Orations to the Cross complete the list of Grazzini's works.
When it was over, he was carried to prison on a soldier's back, where he was refused the benefit of a surgeon.
Johann Baptist Ziz (8 October 1779–1 December 1829) was a German botanist, apothecary, and teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium.
Jakob Benjamin Fischer (13 October 1731 – 25 July 1793) was a Baltic German naturalist and apothecary.
Biography He was a direct descendant of company founder Friedrich Jacob Merck, who had purchased the Engel-Apotheke (Angel Pharmacy) in Darmstadt in 1668.
After inheriting an estate at the age of 62, he retired there and was appointed a deputy lieutenant of Devonshire in 1831.
Sophie (1734–82), the daughter of Louis XV, was interested in scientific objects and had Cornette organize a scientific cabinet for her.
Career After three years in Kargowa, he went to Berlin in 1704, working at first at the apothecary shop of Christoph Schmedicke.
He sat as Member of Parliament for Dublin City and was known as the "Irish Wilkes" because of his radical views.
This plan very nearly succeeded, but Arnold changed living quarters before sailing for Virginia in December and thus avoided capture.
In 1809, Marull was involved in Mutiny of Álzaga, he was imprisoned released and released after paying a fine of 3,000 pesos.
Bourdelin worked with Samuel Cottereau du Clos to analyze mineral waters (sampling ninety sources from 68 locations in France and the analysis was published in 1675), materials from plants and animals.
However, in 1783 his house in Panton Street caught fire, his collections of insects and many of his plants were destroyed, and the people narrowly escaped with their lives.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Cooper, Thompson (1888).
Although Eastchurch's demands were rejected, he was able to stop the advancement of the trial developing against Miller.
He was a founding member of the American Antiquarian Society, and helped establish the Boston Library Society, and the Massachusetts Historical Society.
In 1721, in order to help with a projected revision of Caspar Bauhin's Pinax of 1623, William Sherard brought the German botanist Johann Jacob Dillenius to England.
He was a member of the Pennsylvania Prison Society and president of the Pennsylvania Humane Society.
This house may have been intended for his own use or may have been the residence of his natural (illegitimate) children and their mother.
Three years later he became surgical apprentice to Thomas Edgar who had been Deacon of the Incorporation of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1685 to 1687.
Lucas’s son Henry and other relatives were in attendance at his funeral, as were his friends Lord Charlemont, Flood, Thomas Adderley and Sir Lucius O'Brien, 3rd Baronet.
Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte des ersten pharmazeutischen Lehrers am Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum in Berlin.(A contribution to the history of the first pharmaceutical professor at the Berlin Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum.) Dissertation, University of Berlin, 1938.
After his first marriage, Weinmann became embroiled in a drawn-out dispute with local apothecaries and physicians, brought about by his appointment in 1713 as Hospital Apothecary.
11 of the book also tells that on October 5, Tenpyō 4 (October 28, 732 AD), his student Karakuni no Hirotari was elected as the Head Apothecary (典薬頭, Ten'yaku no Kami), the highest position in Agency for Apothecary (典薬寮, Ten'yaku-ryō).
Kirkton records that even in Dumfries, at the beginning of the Pentlands Rising, the insurgents drank the king's health and M'Crie, over about 8 pages, argues repeatedly that although they rose in arms, they were not rebels.
But it can function as more than just a pit-stop for vacationing hippies or angst-ridden teen witches if you let it—the store's staff are herbal sommeliers.
His argument was disputed by Recorder Stannard, and in the following year Lucas published his closely reasoned and temperate Divelina Libera: an Apology for the Civil Rights and Liberties of the Commons and Citizens of Dublin.
He wrote commentary in the margins, including a note that Sherard was friends with George Frideric Handel; this is plausible considering the two's mutual acquaintance in Haym.
Botany In 1711, around the time Sherard finished composing his second set of sonatas, the Duke died, and Sherard's interest in music seems to have died with him.
Despite his ill health, he made several trips to continental Europe in search of seeds for his garden, which soon became recognized as one of the finest in England.
Spreul absented, and was with several other persons denounced and intercommuned, though nothing was laid to their charge but mere nonconformity.
Eleonore of Württemberg (also called Eleanore of Hesse-Damstadt, 1552 – 1618) was a German noblewoman who published a treatise of medicinal remedies.
Claude Joseph Geoffroy (8 August 1685 in Paris – 9 March 1752 in Paris) was the brother of Étienne François Geoffroy.
At the instigation of the author of a monograph on Timmia, Guy Brassard, a mountain on the Arctic Ellesmere Island was named "Mount Timmia" in honour of Timm.
Besler did not consider himself a scientist, but rather relied on the extant literature of his time including Camerarius, Clusius, Fuchs, Tabernaemontanus and Lobelius, but his work predated the introduction of many overseas plants to Germany.
In 2008, Maggie Dutton of Seattle Weekly wrote: Over its three decades of existence, Tenzing Momo ...
[5] Alexander Chalmers: General Biographical Dictionary.[6] Noretta Koertge: Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography.
The examination of plant matter included distillation of liquids and attempts to separate mixtures and compounds.
He is also in the second installment, still as a Mitama, but given randomly by slaying a higher leveled Oni.
This can be seen in Revisio generum plantarum which consists largely of exhaustive lists of species and entire genera which he proposed were to be moved.
He settled in England and was naturalised as a British subject by Act of Parliament introduced in 1783 (23 Geo.
In 1763 the Freeman's Journal, a biweekly newspaper, was started by three Dublin merchants under the management of Henry Brooke (1703?–1783).
The gardens surrounded the bishop's palace, Willibaldsburg, which was built on a hill overlooking the town.
Discovery of morphine On 1 October 1799, Friedrich Sertürner began there an apprenticeship for four years.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl of Bromley was buried at Poplar, undoubtedly at Poplar Chapel (St Matthias Old Church) on 6 September 1783, according to St Dunstan's, Stepney, Parish Registers.
Notably, he cured the incapacitated hands of a dyer's apprentice thereby earning himself an election to the Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce in May 1761.
In the historical fantasy novel Teito Monogatari by Hiroshi Aramata the protagonist Yasunori Kato claims to be a descendant of En no Gyōja.
Shires displaced John Clavie from his position, who allowed him to make waters, perfumes, and odours for the royal family and for the sweetening of linen.
The Political Graveyard Plan of Say Burial Ground Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine, at 3rd and Arch Streets in Philadelphia Watercolor of grave marker
Britain was involved in the Seven Years' War and they were asking him not to print a list of ships sailing from the port.
In this paper, which was an extension of an earlier memoir on the same subject written in 1744, Rouelle pointed out that the number of known salts had increased significantly during the 17th and early 18th centuries.
Death and memorials Parkinson died on 21 December 1824, after a stroke that interfered with his speech.
His biographer described Craigie as someone who "entertained without regard to expense, who kept dozens of servants and well stocked stables and wine cellars." Meanwhile, Craigie continued to invest in land speculation, much of it in East Cambridge.
Say graduated from the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia in 1780 and practiced in that city.
He is noted for co-founding the McKesson Corporation, the largest health care company in North America and ninth-largest company in the United States.
Plotting to change sides Historians have identified many possible factors contributing to Arnold's treason, while some debate their relative importance.
Some 16th-century English Protestants, such as John Bale and John Foxe, argued that Dante was a proto-Protestant because of his opposition to the pope.
In the anime Zenki, a posthumous character named Enno Ozunu was the master of Zenki, who would centuries later be summoned again by his descendant, Chiaki Enno.
Philipp Gottfried Gaertner (29 October 1754, Hanau – 27 December 1825, Hanau) was a German botanist.
Authorship of the non-canonical Sutra on the Unlimited Life of the Threefold Body is attributed to En no Gyōja.
In addition to the eponymous disease, Parkinson is commemorated in the names of several fossil organisms, including the ammonite Parkinsonia parkinsoni, the crinoid Apiocrinus parkinsoni, the snail Rostellaria parkinsoni, and the tree Nipa parkinsoni.
The Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library (Yale University Library, Connecticut, US) holds a manuscript edition of the Divine Comedy (c.
He received a doctorate in 1647 and became a physician in Venice while also making studies on chemicals such as silica, and the effect of soap on oils.
"Amstela dulcis" In 1665, Bidloo's first publication—Menno's Church—was printed as part of the "Lammerenkrijg" among the Amsterdam Mennonites.
Jahrhunderts", Schweizerisches Archiv für Volkskunde = Archives suisses des traditions populaires 14 (1910), 198–245.
He was banished by the Imperial Court to Izu Ōshima on June 26, 699, but folk tales at least as old as the Nihon Ryōiki (c.
Franz Anton Cramer (born 1776 in Paderborn; died May 9, 1829 in Paderborn) was a German court apothecary in Paderborn.
This privilege was abolished in 1873, after which all pharmacists were to be formally trained as such, an education which was opened for women in 1891, the first graduate being Märtha Leth.
She was one of 17 women to be honored by the American Pharmacists Association in 2012, for "contributions to the profession and advancement of women in pharmacy." See also Susan Hayhurst Elizabeth Marshall (pharmacist) Maria Dauerer == References ==
It is possible that during his lifetime he was known as Gottfried Gaertner, and that "Philipp" was added after his death.
His business acumen was such that he was able to purchase an apothecary which had gone bankrupt, and turn it into a profitable shop.
His brother Timothy and his wife Elizabeth Barclay (1714–1745) had two sons, Joseph Gurney Bevan and Silvanus Bevan (1743-1830).
The local survey was conducted by architect Peter John Stokes, who was the "foremost architectural historian" of the province at the time.
He was listed in a manuscript of "Medical Men in the American Revolution" deposited in the Library of Congress by Dr.
Early life He was the third son of Adam Drummond (1649-1709) of Megginch, 9th of Lennoch, a Commissioner to the Scottish Parliament and a Privy Councillor of Scotland.
Karl Friedrich Otto Ruß (January 14, 1833, Baldenburg – September 29, 1899, Berlin) was a Prussian pharmacist, aviculturist, author of bird-keeping books, and the founding editor of the world's first bird-fancier magazine Die Gefiederte Welt.
This revision troubled many botanists because of the changes he suggested to nearly 30000 taxa, many which were contrary to the rules established by the botanical congress of 1867.
He was one of just three people with addresses in Poplar and Blackwall to be found in Thomas Mortimer's Universal Director of 1763.
On 21 May 1783, he married Mary Dale, with whom he subsequently had eight children; two did not survive past childhood.
He accompanied his father to England, and was appointed apothecary to Anne of Denmark, queen of James I.
Similarly, CO2 produced for the food and beverage industry is also excluded from these figures As of 2023, it is commercially feasible to produce the following products from captured CO2: methanol, urea, polycarbonates, polyols, polyurethane, and salicylic acids.
In June 2008 the Carbon Trust introduced the Carbon Trust Carbon Standard to address what it describes as business greenwash.
2454), a greenhouse gas cap-and-trade bill, was passed on June 26, 2009, in the House of Representatives by a vote of 219–212.
Emissions trading basically refers to the trading of emissions allowances (carbon credits) between one regulated entity and a less pollutive entity.
Google violations On 22 April 2008, Ecocho was informed by Google that they would be denied the use of Google's search technologies for multiple past violations of Google's policies.
It ran in parallel with a tax on energy use, the Climate Change Levy, introduced in April 2001, but companies could get a discount on the tax if they elected to make reductions through participation in the trading scheme.
Timeline 1970s In 1973 the Big Three American automobile manufacturers, Chrysler, Ford Motor Company and General Motors, along with import brand Toyota, were ordered by the EPA to stop using ambient temperature switches which disabled pollution controls at low temperatures.
The goals of the Cap and Dividend Act of 2009 are as follows: Set robust, scientifically driven emissions reductions targets at 25 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 and 85 percent below 2005 levels by 2050 for covered emissions.
Meanwhile, Brazil produces and uses large amounts of bioethanol in vehicles, including in some flex-fuel cars exclusively available in Brazil.
Provisions The legislation aims to put a price on all greenhouse gases that play a significant role in trapping heat in the atmosphere through binding "minimum national standards" on the federal government and all of the provinces and territories of Canada.
History The idea of a global wealth system based on alternative energy production was first suggested by Buckminster Fuller in his 1969 book Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth.
These included credits produced under the Joint Initiative (JI) provision: Emission Reduction Unit credits; the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM): Certified Emission Reduction credits; and Assigned Amount Units (AAU) now also widely known as Hot Air in the post Soviet context.
Data Ember’s open data covers annual electricity generation data for over 200 countries and regions, and monthly electricity generation data for 85 countries and regions.
Using this technology would improve the health of the nation but in particular for people who live closer to the railway.
Different greenhouse gases have different physical properties: the global warming potential is an internationally accepted scale of equivalence for other greenhouse gases in units of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
A phase-out of fossil fuels together with a shift to 100% renewable energy is required by about 2040.
Support from lower-income countries, such as Côte d'Ivoire, Colombia, and Vietnam, is primarily driven by established trade relations with the EU and the potential for EU development aid to offset transition costs.
The investment was reported to be in the range of “€20 million-plus.” Also in 2021, South Pole acquired Belgium-based climate consultancy CO2logic to expand its offerings in Belgium and France.
Costs of solar photovoltaic cells have dropped rapidly, driving strong growth in worldwide capacity.
A steady, planned, rolling programme will reduce costs, speed up journey times, create more seats on more reliable trains and ultimately reduce ticket prices." The group staged a protest on top of Snowdon in 2018.
Namely, the emission reduction must be real, permanent over the period of credit generation, quantifiable, enforceable, and surplus to emission reductions that are already needed to comply with an existing requirement (local, state, or Federal) or air quality plan.
The low emission zones in Antwerp and Brussels have been shown to have a positive impact on air quality, socio-economic disparities and health.
India is also moving towards its goal for electrification of the automotive industry, aiming to have at least 30% EV ownership among private vehicles by 2030.
RETScreen Version 4 was launched on December 11, 2007, at Bali, Indonesia by Canada's Minister of the Environment.
In some markets, however, where short-term supply has overtaken demand, long-term prices can be better than spot prices.
In the European Union Emission Trading Scheme, EU Emission Allowances permit holders to emit a specified amount of carbon dioxide.
'Participants' who must account for their emissions will be few and high in the production chain of each sector and will have to surrender one New Zealand unit (NZU) or one internationally tradable Kyoto-compliant unit for each tonne of emissions.
Carbon pricing Carbon pricing (such as a tax on CO2 emissions) gives industries and consumers an incentive to reduce emissions while letting them choose how to do so.
As such, they increase our overall production and use of renewable energy, and decrease our consumption and burning of fossil fuels.
Clients get to use a specific CEMARS certification logo and are certified against ISO 14064-1 for organisation or PAS 2050 for product or service carboNZero certification is for organisations, products, services or events to make a carbon neutrality claim.
Physical soil and water conservation has been implemented to enhance infiltration, and vegetation growth.
The One-Tonne Challenge was a challenge presented by the Government of Canada in March 2004 for Canadians to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by one tonne each year.
A recent study by the University of Oxford found causal evidence that the local industrial structure influenced the vote among Democrats: a higher share of carbon-intensive ("brown") firms made Democrats less likely to support the bill.
CO2balance adheres to a profit for purpose approach, whereby revenue from the sale of carbon credits is used to maintain projects over the long term and reinvested into new project development.
The Chennai office handles several value-added operations of the bank that were earlier handled only in its Washington, D.C., office.
An ERU represented a reduction of greenhouse gases under the Joint Implementation mechanism, where it represented one tonne of CO2 equivalent reduced.
This estimate is based on values taken from project plans, and makes no adjustment to account for delivery in practice.
Scope According to Mohammed Shamsuddoha and Rezaul Karim Chowdhury, "The 'draft concept note' prepared by the government of Bangladesh on the MDTF suggested that the secretariat be based in the World Bank office in Dhaka.
Most JI projects are expected to take place in the economies in transition (the EIT Parties) noted in Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol.
The company rebranded to ‘South Pole Group’ in 2015, and then again to the current ‘South Pole’ in January 2018.
In 2014, Arcadia Power made RECS available to homes and businesses in all 50 states, allowing consumers to use "100% green power" as defined by the EPA's Green Power Partnership.
The proceeds were paid into a Green Fund, which will provided the resources for the implementation of the provincial climate change plan.
The plan also promotes strategies to reduce emissions from transportation, which account for over 20 percent of local greenhouse gas sources.
The new emissions cap on NOx and SO2 gases took effect in 1995, and according to Smithsonian magazine, those acid rain emissions dropped 3 million tons that year.
The bank would co-chair the management committee and administer, manage, supervise, and monitor implementation of the MDTF's projects and programmes.
BMW BMW was implicated in an "emissions cartel" which sought to restrict design standards for AdBlue.
If the Commonwealth refuses to commit at this time, the States and Territories will introduce an emissions trading scheme by the end of 2010.
These credits are largely traded in form of Certified Emission Reduction (CER), or Emission Reduction Unit (ERU).
The company was the leading insurer of the Trans Mountain pipeline, but stopped supporting it, in July 2020.
However, with the election of Stephen Harper's Conservative Government in 2006, the One Tonne Challenge was scrapped.
Environmental characteristics Source: Average slope gradient: 55% Aspect: the exclosure is oriented towards the west Minimum altitude: 2180 metres Maximum altitude: 2300 metres Lithology: Adigrat Sandstone Management As a general rule, cattle ranging and wood harvesting are not allowed.
Verra was developed in 2005 when the company Climate Wedge and its partner Cheyne Capital designed and drafted the first version (version 1.0) of the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
Furthermore, more than 40 lawsuits were filed against the government in regards to the problem of permit allocation.
This should ensure long-term security of supply after Russia reduced the amount of gas supplied to Austria as a result of its invasion of Ukraine.
The Climate Change Response (Moderated Emissions Trading) Amendment Act 2009 Adoption On 25 November 2009, the bill had its second and third readings and it was adopted by 63 votes to 58, with the support of the National Party (58 votes), the Maori Party (4 votes) and United Future (1 vote).
Low impact energy production The next priority in the hierarchy covers energy sources that are not entirely sustainable, but have a low environmental impact.
The energy sector which was previously slated to make a "considerable" contribution is now required to make an "adequate" contribution.
However, the only determination that has been made is that the actual value of supplementarity should be decided at the country level.
NETT reported progress to CAF in December 2004, including the development of 10 key design propositions as a basis for further investigation and analysis of a NETS.
In the electricity sector, coal still accounted for 83% in 2007, but by 2015, this share had fallen to 72% with the growing share of renewable energies and nuclear energy.
Description Carbon markets are carbon pricing mechanisms enabling governments and non-state actors to trade greenhouse gas emission credits.
Steve Webb, co-founder of Webb Yates Engineers, says: "We’ve known for a long time that aluminium, steel, concrete and ceramics have very high embodied energy ...
Germany is using reverse auctions to compensate coal-fired power plants for shutting down ahead of schedule.
Another area of optimization would come from carbon capture or sequestration such as underground storage, and finally a decrease in fossil fuel use.
In a broad stroke, Renewable Energy Payments, sometimes known as a Feed-in Tariff place obligations on utility companies to buy electricity from renewable energy sources, often small, local companies, for a fixed period of time.
See also Carbon offset Global warming Ecosia Forestle List of search engines References External links Official website
CDR involves techniques to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and is generally considered a form of climate change mitigation.
The RETScreen Clean Energy Management Software (usually shortened to RETScreen Expert) is a software package developed by the Government of Canada.
Its main summary of December 2007 said: The IPCC shows that the world needs to act to avoid disastrous climate change, and act now.
Most organized rides, for example cyclosportives (or gran fondos), Challenge Rides or reliability trials, and hill climbs include registration requirements and will provide information either through the mail or online concerning start times and other requirements.
Pollution in the upstream country is determined only by the emission of the upstream country: q 1 = e 1 {\displaystyle q_{1}=e_{1}} .
Do The Math movie The Do The Math movie is a 42-minute documentary film about the rising movement to change the terrifying math of the climate crisis and challenge the fossil fuel industry.
The Emissions Trading Scheme Review Committee was a special committee of the New Zealand Parliament which conducted a review of the Fifth Labour Government's Emissions Trading Scheme between December 2008 and late August 2009.
Despite their contribution to the construction industry and the generation of jobs, artisanal brick producers largely operate informally and are generally excluded from social, environmental and economic public policies.
The Lofoten Declaration, drafted in August 2017, is an international manifesto calling for the end of hydrocarbon exploration and further expansion of fossil fuel reserves for climate change mitigation.
The regulations apply to about 100 large facilities which emit more than 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases a year.
The report assessed that a minimum of $4.5 million (optimally $8.4 million) of additional funding would be needed to fund the recommended research program.
There should be a presumption in favour of timber and stone." Occupational carbon emissions Occupational carbon emissions relate to the amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere from the direct use of energy to run the building e.g.
Actions from tree-plantings to solar panel installations to huge electricity service-provider switching parties occurred in almost every country around the world.
CNPC Jilin Oil Field China's first carbon capture project was the Jilin oil field in Songyuan, Jilin Province.
The accord has been inactive since March 2010, when an advisory group presented a plan for action to the association with a scheduled implementation date of January 2012.
In an interview with French YouTuber Hugo Travers on 4 September 2023, French president Emmanuel Macron said his government is looking at a French equivalent of the Deutschlandticket.
Unlike classic command and control regulations, which explicitly limit or prohibit emissions by each individual polluter, a carbon tax aims to allow market forces to determine the most efficient way to reduce pollution.
The mixed reactions from users can be seen in the blog comments, some taking further action by complaining to Google, and others agreeing with Google.
The distinction between carbon taxes and permit systems can get blurred when hybrid systems are allowed.
The international community is making critical decisions on how to mobilize up to US$100 billion per year by 2020 based on recommendations in these reports.
As noted in the previous paragraph, participants in the NZ ETS could also use most of the 'Kyoto Units' to meet their surrender obligations.
In January 2016, The Climate Mobilization sponsored a "Climate Emergency Caucus" in Des Moines before the Iowa caucuses, which simulated the state's 2016 Democratic presidential primary caucus.
Signed by 600 organizations spanning 76 countries, the Declaration is believed to have helped influence the government of Norway to divest from investment in exploration and production.
Mountain Mountain biking began in the 1970s, originally as a downhill sport, practised on customized cruiser bicycles around Mount Tamalpais.
This IPCC special report provides broader coverage of renewable energy than was included in the IPCC's 2007 climate change assessment report, as well as stronger renewable energy policy coverage.
Whereas in degraded rangeland, 11.4% of the rainfall flows directly away to the river (runoff coefficient), this happens only for 2.5% of the rain in a recent exclosure and 3.2% in a eucalyptus forest.
angustifolia) Gwarri (Euclea schimperi) Lantana viburnoides Natal rhus (Rhus natalensis) Soils The main soil type in the exclosure are Phaeozems, essentially a remnant of the time when the area was covered with natural forest.
Shane Ardern, a National Party MP, drove a tractor up the steps of Parliament as part of a protest against the tax.
All LEZs apply to heavy vehicles, some to diesel vans, others also to diesel and petrol cars; in Italy, motor cycles and three-wheelers are also liable to control.
The CO2-charged water is acidic, typically having a pH of 3-5 depending on the partial pressure of CO2, water composition, and the temperature of the system.
The African carbon market is a platform that seeks to integrate climate change mitigation with poverty alleviation for local-level farmers in Africa.
202, authorizing the city council to levy and collect an excise tax from residential, commercial and industrial electricity customers for the purpose of funding a climate action plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The 9-Euro-Ticket (German pronunciation: [ˌnɔʏ̯n ˈɔʏ̯ʁo ˈtɪkət]) was a German scheme through which passengers could travel for 9 euros (€) per month on local and regional transport in all of Germany.
The experience gained in the pilot areas will serve as a basis to expand EELA’s intervention at a national level.
C&C, COP-15 and COP-21 The C&C aspect of the negotiations at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP-15) in Copenhagen in 2009 provoked controversy.
High impact energy production The lowest priority under the energy hierarchy is energy production using unsustainables sources, such as unabated fossil fuels.
It calls for fossil fuel divestment and phase-out of use with a just transition to a low-carbon economy.
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
Proposals Proposals include: Tradable Energy Quotas (TEQs) – devised by environmental writer David Fleming, who first published the idea in 1996 under its former name Domestic Tradable Quotas (DTQs).
In addition, regenerative braking saves energy and is more efficient and thus helps the low-carbon economy.
Research Ember currently produces research on global electricity trends and coal mine methane emissions, including research on the EU, India, Indonesia, Australia and Türkiye.
History In May 2003 a report prepared for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (O'Hara report) identified that although some funding for agricultural emissions was being provided by FRST and MAF, "The level of investment in abatement research by other public and private sources has been low".
History Since at least 2008, public figures like environmental analyst Lester Brown, former vice president Al Gore, author and energy expert Joseph J.
Since 2015, more than 60 local authorities have been ordered to tackle illegal levels of air pollution, which is why many of these planning to introduce clean air zones.
Climate Defiance disrupted the 2023 White House Correspondents Dinner, an event for Exxon CEO Darren Woods, and the speaking events of several powerful Democratic officials, including Tommy Beaudreau, Pete Buttigieg, Jennifer Granholm, Amy Klobuchar, Joe Manchin, Jerome Powell, and Ali Zaidi.
Carbon retirement has been described as "straightforward and transparent," compared to other offsets which can involve more complex methodologies and trading.
Related analysis of REDD+ policy “translation” in Laos has described how competing storylines and administrative dynamics shaped how readiness outputs were framed and operationalised, affecting perceptions of inclusion and accountability in the readiness process.
Carbon Clear is a founding member of the International Carbon Reduction and Offset Alliance (ICROA).
History The origin of GCI's intervention dates from 1989 and resulted in a statement published in 1990 in the Guardian June 18, 1991.
In December 2008, Element Markets installed a 20,000-square-foot (1,900 m2) solar photovoltaic power system on the roof of the Shops at Mission Viejo, a California mall owned by the Simon Property Group.
"Viewer mode" in RETScreen Expert is free and permits access to significant functionality of the software.
The Climate Mobilization was launched in September 2014, before the People's Climate March in New York City, specifically to organize politically around the concept of a rapid, World War II-scale government mobilization against climate change.
Related emissions reduction proposals and initiatives Carbon Rationing Action Groups – groups in the UK and US that voluntarily cap their greenhouse gas emissions "Icecaps" – devised by George Monbiot in his book Heat: How to Stop the Planet Burning.
Wider access to reliable electricity would lead to less use of kerosene lighting and diesel generators, which are currently common in the developing world.
The vehicle achieved 147 miles per gallon (mpg) city in plug-in electric hybrid mode (PHEV) and 52 mpg highway in hybrid mode, according to Sapphire Energy.
The Dream Machines were placed on college campuses, grocery stores and military bases across the US and collected more than 4 million plastic bottles in their first year of use.
International As of late 2024, discussions are underway at the International Maritime Organization regarding the details of an emission-reduction strategy that includes a carbon pricing system for international shipping.
No further action was taken, as leadership in several of the states switched positions on climate policy.
Since then the market for sustainability management services has grown in line with the need for private and public sector organisations to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, in response to new climate change legislation and the imperative for voluntary action.
Sandbag was re-branded as Ember in 2020 with a focus on the global power sector, while a separate Brussels-based organisation was established to continue work on the ETS.
Jayalalithaa, inaugurated a new 26,000 sq ft office in Raheja Towers in Anna Salai, where the bank started functioning in a full-fledged manner to process all of the bank's accounting functions and its global payrolls, with about 90 personnel.
The system is designed to facilitate completion and submission of verified emissions and benchmarking reports, viewing of approved emissions/benchmarking plans for existing operators and submission of emissions plans for new operators.
States with SREC markets There are currently 35 states (and Washington, D.C.) with existing Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS).
The vehicle was intended to provide a model for the viability of algae-based biofuels as a market alternative to fossil fuels.
On 9 December 2015, Volkswagen revised these estimates, saying that only around 36,000 vehicles are affected by the irregularities, while also affirming that it had found no evidence of unlawful changing of CO2 emissions data.
On 22 April 2021, along with an open letter to Grant Shapps with fifteen signatures, the Railway Industry Association published their report "Why Rail Electrification".
Personal carbon credits are a new approach to GHG reduction strategies and as such there are no specific protocols existing today within the various certification standards, specifically, because personal carbon credits are so new.
Assigned amount units were issued up to the level of initial "assigned amount" of an Annex 1 Party to the Kyoto Protocol.
Services and products Carbon Clear offers sustainability services including energy management, carbon footprint services, strategy and target setting and climate change risks and opportunities analysis.
The concept is that internal abatement of emissions should take precedence before external participation in flexible mechanisms.
Industry loss, without replacement, can lead to the "out-migration" of young people, altering the social demography of affected communities.
Allocation of carbon allowances During Phase 1 all permits were allocated freely without the employment of the auction system.
He further underscored the complexities and nuances of REDD+ and offered COONAPIP's contribution to national REDD+ efforts.
Preliminary results of an independent investigation and evaluation commissioned by the UN-REDD Programme were published, as well as a study of the conflict by a Central American non-governmental research center.
Most of the administrative expense and trust fund transactions for the Bank, which range between US$1 billion and US$2 billion a year, are processed in the Chennai office.
The Declaration was named for the Lofoten archipelago where public concern has successfully prevented offshore development of petroleum reserves.
The new name was chosen to suggest "‘verification’ and ‘terra’, and reflects the fundamental nature of our work".
Developing a carbon project is appropriate for renewable energy projects such as wind power, solar power, low impact-small hydropower, biomass, and biogas.
Based on the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism, CEB VER establishes criteria for validating, measuring, and monitoring carbon offset projects with the option to trade carbon credits and use them for surrendering for individuals, organizations or companies that want to be carbon neutral.
In January 2026, the government in India introduced Greenhouse gas emission Intensity targets for an additional 208 units.
Following the report, Brazilian police raided the three carbon credit projects belonging to Ricardo Stoppe, Brazil's top individual seller of carbon credits.
Article 17 also required that any such emissions trading must be supplemental to domestic action for the purpose of meeting quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments.
For example, Green Resources Ltd (GRL) is one owner of a long term lease from the Tanzanian government in order to reforest certain areas.
Other ways of taking climate justice into account, such as granting exemptions to ports in selected countries, have also been considered, but this opens up opportunities for price avoidance and risks unfairly disadvantaging some countries.
Exporters have to pay the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism from 1 January 2026 until the Turkish ETS starts.
In order to compensate the landowners for lost production, EBEX21 applies strict rules based on the Kyoto Protocol to allocate voluntary carbon credits that are pooled and sold through the carboNZero programme.
Utility bicycles tend to be equipped with accessories such as mudguards, pannier racks and lights, which extend their usefulness on a daily basis.
Instead, because the remaining 1,000 allowances had to be allocated to the lowest bidder, the settlement price for all participants was lowered to $20.
The NRDC's study also rebutted the claim that the pipeline will lead to energy independence because the pipeline would carry tar sands from Canada to Texas for export to the global market.
CEB VER is a quality standard for the voluntary carbon offset industry created by Commodity Exchange Bratislava.
The list of signatories has grown to 270 governments, representing over 1.75 billion people and 50% of the world economy.
If there is not enough money, the federal and state governments currently share the additional costs.
The Porsche Panamera equipped with the VW-EA897 engine, made by Audi, exhibited an 8.3-fold limit violation with an average NOx emissions of 1,498 mg/km, according to DUH.
At the 2009 Copenhagen climate conference, a Bangladeshi delegate told reporters that Bangladesh might let the World Bank manage the funds, if that was set as a condition by funders.
Other trace components of this mixture includes water vapor, hydrogen sulfide, siloxanes, hydrocarbons, ammonia, oxygen, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen.
The structure and process of the ETSWAP system was outlined in a Mutual Understanding Document produced by the governments of the UK, Germany, Ireland and The Netherlands, which also dubbed the system "Workflow Automation Project" (WAP).
Moyes (2008) describes this as a "flexible cap" where New Zealand sourced emissions regulated by the NZETS are constrained only by the international market price for GHG emissions.
On 10 October 2015, Consumer Reports tested a 2015 Jetta TDI and a 2011 Jetta Sportwagen TDI in what they presumed was the special emissions testing, or cheat mode.
Method Captured CO2 is dissolved in water, either prior to or during injection into mafic or ultramafic formations, such as basalts.
Methodologies Methodology expresses the exact calculation of how many carbon credits can be issued for project developers.
REPs are incentives for homeowners, farmers, businesses, etc., to become producers of renewable energy, or to increase their production of renewable energy.
References External links CEB Website Archived 2009-03-27 at the Wayback Machine VER Registry Archived 2013-04-29 at the Wayback Machine The VER+ Standard profile on database of Market Governance Mechanisms
Global capacity estimates are uncertain, particularly for saline aquifers where more site characterization and exploration is still needed.
Carbon markets compensate for companies' greenhouse gas emissions and purchasing these carbon credits can remove or reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
These same credits are created when specific GHG reduction projects produce real, additional and verifiable GHG reductions.
The Liberal Government under Jean Chrétien and Paul Martin approved over $45 million to fund the program from 2003 to 2006.
Annual reporting should help the government to evaluate and adjust its specific climate protection measures in the short-term.
As at July 2011, ETSWAP is configured for reporting of carbon emissions by the aviation sector and has been used by 600 aviation operators in the UK and 200 in the Republic of Ireland.
The Climate Mobilization (TCM) is a grassroots environmental advocacy group working toward large-scale political action against global warming.
Critical climate change experts decry these credits as a way for countries to buy their way out of taking action to address climate change.
Environmental characteristics Average slope gradient: 70% Aspect: the exclosure is oriented towards the northeast Minimum altitude: 2,635 metres Maximum altitude: 2,705 metres Lithology: Basalt Management As a general rule, cattle ranging and wood harvesting are not allowed.
Former voluntary scheme The former UK Emissions Trading Scheme was a voluntary emissions trading system created as a pilot prior to the mandatory EUETS.
Additionally, carbon retirement encompasses the purchase and permanent retirement of carbon credits, certificates representing the prevention of greenhouse gas emissions or removing these gases from the atmosphere.
Climate Defiance is supported by Margaret Klein Salamon's Climate Emergency Fund, which provides about half of Climate Defiance's budget.
The third phase of CERT (previously known as Energy Efficiency Commitment 3) originally ran from 2008 to 2011 and increased the previous targets to 154 MtC.
It is published and administered by the Gold Standard Foundation, a non-profit foundation headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland.
The emission reduction unit (ERU) was an emissions unit issued under a Joint Implementation project in terms of the Kyoto Protocol.
In December 2013, the Panama UN-REDD National Programme was reopened following an agreement between the Panama Government, through its National Environmental Authority (ANAM), and indigenous peoples, through the National Coordinating Entity of Indigenous Peoples in Panama (COONAPIP).
History Ember was originally founded in 2008 as Sandbag, focussing on the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme, allowing its members to campaign to reduce the number of permits in circulation and to purchase permits and cancel them.
Use 2020: McKinsey Sustainability reported a significant uptick in the retirement of carbon credits, with approximately 95 million tons of CO2 equivalent retired in 2020 alone, more than doubling the figures from 2017.
References Further reading Kreibich, Nicolas; Hermwille, Lukas; Warnecke, Carsten; Arens, Christof (23 February 2017).
The Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act of Alberta was the first law of its type to impose greenhouse gas cuts on large industrial facilities.
Subsequent inspections must be conducted by an accredited energy assessor within five years of the previous inspection.
This category includes eliminating waste by turning off unneeded lights and appliances and by avoiding unnecessary journeys.
If having to pay this cost is unexpected, then there will likely be a one-time loss due to the change in regulations and not simply due to paying the real cost of carbon.
Other campaigners are strongly critical of World Bank-funded projects, which they say "have often created ecological hazards and destroyed ecological goods and services." Bangladeshi opponents of a World Bank-managed MDTF include the Equity and Justice Working Group Bangladesh (EquityBD).
Similar to the AGF report, there are many high-profile reports; addressing climate finance sources with a focus on innovative sources.
The Open Coalition on Compliance Carbon Markets with the aim of establishing a global carbon market was created in the COP 30, partially due to CBAM.
The name was changed in advance of the 2008 elections by Barnes as he began an effort to raise the profile of the idea with a new book, Climate Solutions: A Citizens Guide and numerous media interviews.
However, SREC contracts longer than 3 years can be difficult to secure in some SREC markets because, in deregulated electricity markets, energy suppliers rarely have electricity supply contracts longer than three years.
Public governance, with the introduction of coherent and predictable policies which favour the energetic transition, along with the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies and the introduction of carbon pricing.
The current CEO is Josiane Sadaka, a British-educated brand manager for other companies owned by Sheikh Ahmed as well.
Other papers published in the late 1990s by economists at Wharton Econometric Forecasting Associates (and later, in the 2010s, at MIT), also with funding from the fossil fuel industry, produced similar conclusions.
In 2008, the CEMARS sister brand was created and a UK license partner, Achilles Group, began offering CEMARS to its customers in the UK.
Common Sense, subtitled A New Constitution for Britain is a book written by the British Labour politician Tony Benn and Andrew Hood.
Baptist view The basic concept of individual soul liberty, is that in matters of religion, each person has the liberty to choose what conscience or soul dictates is right, and is responsible to no one but God for the decision that is made.
There is no state religion, although the preamble to the constitution mentions "the Christian principles" the country is founded upon.
Societal abuses and discrimination There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Freedom of religion in Taiwan is provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of China, which is in force on Taiwan.
Its use is of patriotic or ceremonial character and bears no true resemblance to a governmental sponsorship of a religious exercise.
The introduction of the bill was intended more for public discussion than with any real hope that it would become law.
Those who are registered as non-religious (not belonging to any religious group) also pay the tax, which is used to support the University of Iceland.
Reports from humanitarian groups indicated that in early July al-Shabaab abducted at least 45 elders in El Buur District for failing to hand over 150 children to the group.
He received the award on November 11, 2005 for his "fearless and courageous commitment to freedom of belief and human rights in Egypt." Selection Committee The laureates are chosen by a committee appointed by the Stefanus Alliance International.
My duties dictate a faithful and zealous pursuit of the interests of my constituents, and in proportion as they are persuaded of my fidelity to those duties, the discharge of them becomes more and more pleasing.
These views culminated in some colonials rejecting that traditional African faiths were proper religions.
The Utraquist and the Catholic faiths were declared equal in front of the law, and the religious peace (Landfried) was declared for the following 31 years.
On 4 October, a sentence was pronounced: fourteen were to be tortured and burned alive; five to be flogged and banished; ten, all women, were set free while the remainder were to undergo graded forms of penance.
The church congregation had been part of China's network of government-run churches since the 1990s.
Since Turkey desired to promote secularism, the ECHR held that if Turkey determined the banning of headscarves necessary, it would not rule against the abrogation of Leyal Sahin’s religious right.
Others Several religious minorities have reported difficulties in planning permission for building houses of worship.
During the 1980s, AA operated a chapter program intended to increase membership through the activities of these chapters.
Their trials ended on 5 August 2019, and the men were sentenced to prison time, ranging from 5–8 years.
The Government has not allowed the Seventh-day Adventists to import Bibles or other religious materials, but the Government did allow the LEC to import a small number of Bibles in early 2007.
After 1867, this party added like-minded reformers from the Maritime provinces, but struggled to win power, especially in still strongly-Catholic Quebec.
Representatives of religious minorities on the main island of Funafuti report that they are able to practice their faiths freely.
Under his proposal, disused solars would be sold mainly to the rich, because they had the means to cultivate the land, with a smaller number reserved for farmers who had two pairs of oxen.
Increasingly, the majority of board members came from the Tampa Bay area, and eventually the Tampa chapter obtained space in a commercial building in South Tampa, which evolved into the headquarters of the organization.
The Constitution prohibits discrimination on the basis of caste; however, the caste system strongly influences society.
King Henry IV had granted Huguenots significant amount of freedom to practice their faith when he announced the Edict of Nantes on 13 April 1598.
According to SARA, there were 2,113 registered religious entities, including mosques, churches, foundations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) of a religious nature, and religious educational institutions.
Public schools provide one hour of non-compulsory religious education per week; in practice, few students opt out of these lessons.
In a 2013 poll conducted by Prospect magazine, Dawkins was ranked first in the list of "world thinkers" rankings.
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
Argentina The original Argentine Constitution of 1853 provided that all Argentine presidents must be Catholic and stated that the duty of the Argentine congress was to convert the Indians to Catholicism.
The criminal code prohibits discrimination based on religion and provides penalties of up to two years in prison for violations.
"Persevering in the Faith: Catholic Worship and Communal Identity in the Wake of the Edict of Nantes".
In 2022, members of other religious groups combined constitute less than 1 percent of the population and include a small Christian community, and an unknown number of Shia Muslims, as well as Hindus, Buddhists, Jews and some animists.
In the referendum of May 20, 1973, the federal decree on the repeal of the Jesuit and monastery articles of the Federal Constitution was adopted, thereby removing these articles from the constitution.
The declaration claimed that Turkish troops forced the priest conducting the service to remove his vestments and ordered everybody to leave the church, thus violating the European Convention on Human Rights.
History The Stefanus Prize was established in 2005 by the Norwegian NGO Stefanus Alliance International, and has been awarded biennially since 2008.
History Context Castellio was a Protestant humanist theologian who initially worked in Strasbourg before moving to Geneva to assist John Calvin.
Taiwan's government generally respects freedom of religion in practice, with policies which contribute to the generally free practice of religion.
The Constitution of Albania provides for freedom of religion, and the Government has generally respected this right in practice.
In front of this location 14 Reformists, arrested during a cult, were burned on October 8, 1546 at the decree of the Parliament in Paris on October 4, 1546.
In fact, such secular uses of the motto was viewed as sacrilegious and irreverent by President Theodore Roosevelt.
Therefore, if Servetus had wanted to kill Calvin, it would have been right for the magistrate to defend Calvin.
Current situation The government's approach towards religious minorities allegedly continued to improve.
If their parents are married and belong to different religious groups, the babies are not registered in any church until the parents agree on how to register them.
The Government does not maintain records of an individual's religious identity, and there is no law that requires religious groups to register with the state; however, the General Election Committee has adopted a policy barring all non-Muslims from running for Parliament.
McClintock v Department of Constitutional Affairs [2008] IRLR 29, Times 5 December 2007, is a UK employment discrimination law case concerning freedom of religion under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, unfair dismissal (s.94ff.
Here it is stated (using the judgment of the Court of Appeal, [2002] EWCA Civ 1856, as authority) that the Appellants, in order to rely on Article 9, would have to prove that the interference with Convention Rights was 'flagrant'.
Evangelical Christian groups have been pressured by government authorities to compile and submit membership lists for their congregations, but evangelicals have resisted this demand.
Such a society can cohere only if all its participants accept that certain basic norms and standards are binding.
Declaration as to the religious character of certain places of worship and bar of jurisdiction of courts, etc.
On 2 July 1993, Alevi intellectuals were attacked in Sivas; the Sivas massacre resulted in the deaths of 37 people.
The Prometheus Society (Swedish: Studentföreningen Prometheus, Finnish: Prometheus-seura) was a Finnish student society at the University of Helsinki from 1905 to 1914, whose main purpose was to promote religious freedom.
If found guilty, the penalties were as follows: first offence: imprisonment for up to three months without bail, or a five pounds fine (to be paid to the poor of the convicted person's parish).
The treaties with the Holy See are referred to as concordats whereas the treaties with Protestant Churches and umbrellas of Jewish congregations are called "state treaties".
Notes a Wayland states further "No man of his age had so clear conceptions of the rights of conscience as the founder of Rhode Island, and no one had ever carried them so honestly to their legitimate conclusions.
The work is famous for being the source of Castellio's most well-known quote: "To kill a man is not to defend a doctrine, it is to kill a man." The text is considered one of the earliest debates on the issue of religious tolerance.
The committee claims that its records on religious organizations facilitate the granting of residence permits by police to foreign employees of various religious organizations.
The immediate cause of the repressions was the refusal of both the religious organization and its individual members to sign the Stockholm Appeal.
Interfaith dialogue occurred regularly, and citizens respected different religious traditions and practices, including syncretistic beliefs.
Meminisse iuvat (14 July 1958) is an encyclical of Pope Pius XII, asking for prayers for the persecuted Church in the East and criticizing harmful cultural developments in the West.
Societal abuses and discrimination There is societal discrimination against non-Muslims, particularly Christians, in some sectors of society.
He was told by his employer, the Department of Constitutional Affairs (now the Ministry of Justice), that he would not be able to get an exemption from his duties.
A century later, the Agreement is believed to have "greatly influence[ed] the development of the U.S.
History Three years prior to the first introduction of the Commonwealth of Britain Bill, Charter 88 was launched, aiming to codify civil rights.
This opposition reached its peak with the execution of Michael Servetus, a Christian theologian deemed heterodox, who was burned alive in Geneva.
It also ensured that the Protestant minority in France would have a measure of religious and political freedom, and helped to establish France as a more tolerant and pluralistic society.
Bosnian Franciscans used the Ahdname of Milodraž not only in relations with the Muslim authorities, but also to protect themselves from the ambitions of Eastern Orthodox clergy when the latter claimed the right to collect tax from them too on the basis of an earlier firman.
In the 2009 respectively 2011 indexes South Korea was placed in the category Low and in the 2015 index the country was placed in the category Moderate.
Confiscation was one of the political weapons with which Spanish liberals modified the system of ownership of the country's Ancient Régime during the first half of the 19th century.
In 2009, Bill Maher received the award for his film Religulous; oncologist David Gorski called the decision "inappropriate" due to Maher's views on vaccines and criticism of evidence-based medicine.
As a result of the incorporation of the Bill of Rights after the American Civil War, the protections of the Bill of Rights were extended to the individual states on the basis of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
The issue in the case was whether a person can be deported from the United Kingdom to a state where there are known human rights abuses, or refused asylum to the United Kingdom when the applicant is from such a state.
The Colombian Constitution of 1991 abolished the previous condition of the Roman Catholic Church as state church, and it includes two articles providing for freedom of worship: Art.
At all levels, the Japanese Government seeks to protect this right in full and does not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
It was only in the referendum of June 10, 2001 (approved by 64 percent of the population and all cantons) that the paragraph was deleted without replacement as the last of the remaining Special Provisions.
The constitution prohibits any law or culture that contravenes Islam and prohibits demonstrations contrary to Islam.
Pardiwala gave the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta more time to file an affidavit, as it clubbed together petitions filed by several people including former BJP MP Subramanian Swamy and advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, who had filed his plea on March 12, 2021.
The two, a pastor and his wife, were released after three-weeks' detention and payment of a $9,000 fine.
During the Indian Prime Minister's visit to Bahrain he announced redevelopment project for the Shrinathji (Krishna) Temple which will cost $4.2 million.
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1863 (26 & 27 Vict.
Unlike prior reporting periods, some of Khartoum's English-language newspapers featured lengthy articles on Christian themes.
Just as Christ our Redeemer rose in triumph, so the Church shall some day win a peaceful victory over all her enemies." The Pope encourages the faithful in the East to have confidence, and to be brave and steadfast soldiers, quoting St.
Castellio's defense extended beyond heterodox Christians to include religious tolerance for Jews and Muslims, whom he referred to as "Turks".
Embassy chapels led to diplomatic tension between the English government and the Catholic governments who operated the embassies between 1625 and 1660.
No-one is to attack them, nor threaten their lives, property or churches." Its form and content, as well as Mehmed's personal oath, resemble that of an international treaty.
Although the Government monitored, including by filming, Protestant and Muslim religious groups in the past, there were no reports of surveillance during the period covered by this report.
An estimated 23 percent of the population adheres to traditional indigenous religious beliefs; some of the traditional indigenous groups promoted cures for HIV, AIDS and other ailments.
Religious associations must include at least 10 religious communities, one of which must have been active in the country for at least 20 years, and may be constituted only by a republican (national level) religious association.
The media, in an attempt to explain the ideology of Ayatollah Khomeini and the Iranian Revolution to a Western audience described it as a "fundamentalist version of Islam" by way of analogy to the Christian fundamentalist movement in the U.S.
Abuses of religious freedom During the reporting period, security officials arbitrarily arrested and detained some individuals suspected of proselytizing and looking for H.A.Lutf Alshabi for the same reason.
This is out of a total population of 127 million, but does not account for overlapping memberships (some families may be registered at both a Buddhist temple and a Shinto shrine), or double membership due to change of address.
The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which is entrenched in the Constitution, states in the preamble that Canada "is founded upon principles that recognize the supremacy of God and the rule of law." Freedom of religion as also guaranteed.
Leadership The current co-chairs of the International Religious Freedom Caucus are Gus Bilirakis (Republican) and Dan Lipinski (Democrat) Members, 112th Congress == References ==
Burger's successor, William Rehnquist, called for the abandonment of the "wall of separation between church and State" metaphor in Wallace v.
Even though the jury was imprisoned for their acquittal, they stood by their decision and helped establish freedom of religion in the area.
I go further: no one has yet been able either to take from or add to the principles of religious liberty which he so simply and powerfully set forth.
Although it occurs in only one patristic text and in no classical Roman sources or inscriptions, the phrase has spawned abundant scholarly conjecture on its possible significance.
Maria reportedly kept the customs of her ancestors, including refraining from eating pork, ceasing work on Friday and praying only to HaShem.
Aside from Christianity in its various denominations, Judaism constitutes another religion of notable presence in Uruguay, followed by Umbanda, although the latter is represented in considerably smaller numbers.
Stefanus Alliance International awards every second year the Stefanus Prize, a human rights prize, to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to the work for freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Christian leaders cite these requirements as exacerbating problems in the relationship between the Muslim majority and the Christian minority, marginalizing Christianity's place in northern society.
Disputes arising from public or private law concerning the formation or separation of religious communities may be submitted to the decision of the competent federal authorities by way of appeal.
As demolition efforts began in 2013, government officials increased tension by cutting off the church's electricity and water supply.
However, since 2006 the prime minister has appointed two Shia ministers to each cabinet, including the current one.
Therefore, Ladele made an application to the Employment Tribunal, complaining of direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of religion or belief and harassment.
The agreement between representatives of both sides, reached after meeting from 13 March to 20 March, declared the agreement from the Basel Council the basic law of the land.
The GOC is not able to travel to Abkhazia and few GOC worshippers in Abkhazia are able to travel to Tbilisi as only a few ethnic Georgians had passports issued by the Abkhazia authorities.
During year 2004, representatives of the Eastern Orthodox Church expressed concerns that churches, crosses, and other buildings were targets of vandalism.
Thus, there cannot be said that any religious organization is more legitimate than other in Korea, from a legal point of view.
Registered religious organizations operate on a tax-free basis and are required to submit annual reports of their financial operations.
At first he said that there was evidence to show that children placed with same-sex couples would be disadvantaged when compared to a child placed with a heterosexual family.
See also Religion in Benin Christianity in Benin Catholic Church in Benin Islam in Benin References International Religious Freedom Report 2007: Benin.
Restrictions on religious freedom In 2023, the country was scored 4 out of 4 for religious freedom; all religious groups must register with the government.
According to the school, as the girls had not yet reached puberty they did not qualify for an exemption from swimming lessons under Swiss law.
Augustine: This I suppose was added because of those who wish to boast of persecutions and evil reports of their shame, and therefore claim to belong to Christ because many evil things are said of them; but either these are true, or when false yet they are not for Christ's sake.
For Art 8, ‘given the almost inevitable compromise and balance between work and family commitments, particularly in families where both partners work’ there was no interference, to constitute any violation.
Nelson As a religious minority in Connecticut, the Danbury Baptists were concerned that a religious majority might "reproach their chief Magistrate...
The Calverts intended the colony to function both as a haven for English Catholics fleeing religious persecution and as a source of income for themselves and their descendants.
While the Taiwanese authorities do not collect or independently verify statistics on religious affiliation, they maintain registration statistics voluntarily reported by religious organizations.
Judgment On the accountability, the Court held, by sixteen votes to one, referring to its Loizidou v.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
Registration for religious groups is not required, but provides access to property purchase and tax exemptions; registration can take up to two years.
The next Sunday, as reported by the Venetian ambassador, guards were placed in front of the French, Venetian and Spanish embassies, and Catholics were arrested as they left the premises; afterwards the Spanish ambassador, Don Carlos Coloma, unsuccessfully tried to obtain their release.
Missionaries disseminating dogma inconsistent with the traditional customs of local Muslims are subject to expulsion.
25781/94) is a case raised by Cyprus against Turkey in 1994 and decided on merits by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in 2001.
In August 2019, after the church had been destroyed, persecution of citizens continued with eight people in charge of the church and 13 churchgoers arrested.
The word Venta comes from the vendor stalls along the side of the road, as the area lies on the road from Pachuca to Mexico City and Actopan.
The State Service on Religious Issues failed to implement the decision in the stipulated 30 days and subsequently asked the Court for a 2-week extension to register the church.
The committee was composed of following members in 2020: Ingvill Thorson Plesner (researcher at HL-senteret), Erling Rimehaug (editor and writer), Anne Beathe Kristiansen Tvinnereim (politician]), and Ingunn Yri Øystese (board member of the Stefanus Alliance International).
The Chamber argued that the "negative" freedom of religion was not limited to the absence of religious services or religious education: it extended to practices and symbols expressing, in particular or in general, a belief, a religion or atheism.
On 17 December 2004, the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) ruled that Nalliah, Scot and the Christian group Catch the Fire Ministries had vilified Muslims at the seminar, and in a newsletter and website article authored by the group.
After Dunama Dabbalemi of the Sayfawa dynasty converted to Islam, he waged Jihad, or holy war, against the proponents of the Kanuri religion, seeking to destroy its presence.
"Hundreds of hisba cases have been registered against writers and activists, often using blasphemy or apostasy as a pretext".
It is said that the community was founded between the end of the 19th century and 1920, by María Trinidad, a widow of one of the Téllez brothers.
A compulsory curriculum requires the study of Christianity for Christian students and Islam for Muslim students in grades one through six.
44), which substituted belief in the Christians' Scriptures for belief in the Thirty-Nine Articles of the Anglican churches, but some penalties on holding property remained.
By the same token, they believe that the First Amendment excludes only the direct establishment of, or preferential treatment for, a particular religion.
In 2012, a group of 50 young Muslim teenagers attacked a Christian residential complex in Bethphage, throwing rocks, smashing cars and windows and injuring several residents.
Themes Milton believed that an individual's conscience was more important than any external factors or forces.
As part of Stalin's efforts to unite the Soviet citizenry against the Nazi threat during World War II, state-sponsored persecution of religion was somewhat eased, and the GOC's independence from the Russian church was once again formally recognized in 1943.
Arrests On the night of 21–22 June 1950, hundreds of searches were conducted in the homes of Jehovah's Witnesses across Poland, accompanied by the first mass arrests.
On Zanzibar, the President of Zanzibar appoints the mufti, who serves as a leader of the Muslim community and as a public servant assisting with local governmental affairs.
1649." Development Soon after the First English Civil War, the Agreement was the subject of the Putney Debates in 1647.
Background The edict took place during the process referred to as the Eastern Question in relations between European powers, Britain in particular, and the Ottoman Empire.
(UN Human Rights Committee, General comment 22, 30 July 1993) Relationship between religious organizations and the state Legal status of religious organizations There is neither an official religion nor state atheism in the Republic of Korea.
The Employment Tribunal held that she had been directly and indirectly discriminated against, as well as harassed.
The Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001 is an act of the Parliament of Victoria, Australia, that makes behaviour that incites or encourages hatred, serious contempt, revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group of people, because of their race or religion, unlawful in Victoria.
The Government defended the current law as being a national security measure and rejected a petition from the group for lacking a sufficient number of signatures.
The efforts of some Protestant congregations to establish churches independent of the Lao Evangelical Church (LEC) continued to cause strains within the Protestant community.
The Court maintained that the national motto has no purpose in a coercive power to aid religion - neither on the face of the legislation nor in its operative effect (its practical impact on society).
A Treatise of Civil Power was published by the English poet and polemicist John Milton in February 1659.
Italian Government reaction On 28 January 2010, the Italian government lodged an appeal to the Grand Chamber of the Court.
A 1998 opinion poll indicated that 48 percent of Greek Cypriots regularly attended church services, while 49 percent attended only for major religious holidays and ceremonies such as weddings and funerals.
However, members of other religious groups were allowed to commemorate their religious holidays without government interference.
Legally, members of one religious group mutually may agree to submit a personal status dispute to a different denomination to adjudicate, but in practice this did not occur.
Uruguay has no official religion, as Church and State were officially separated with the Constitution of 1918.
Thus the English Jews, by an act of omission, as it were, became subjects, under no more disabilities than those inherent in their own unwillingness, like Catholics and Nonconformists, to belong to the Church of England or, in their particular case, to swear Christian oaths.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice.
Further, it continued the existing social and political disabilities for dissenters, including their exclusion from holding political offices and also from the universities.
Legal and policy framework The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government declares that it generally respect this right.
In this text, written shortly after the Treatise on Heretics, Castellio portrayed himself as an opponent of John Calvin and attacked the persecutions aimed at individuals perceived as heretics.
Stefanus Alliance International (SAI) is a Norwegian mission and human rights organization, dedicated to defending freedom of belief and religion as expressed in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
This exodus deprived France of many of its most skilled and industrious individuals, some of whom thereafter aided France's rivals in the Netherlands and in England.
The Caucus plays a critical role in raising the profile of numerous religious freedom issues in Congress and with both the Bush and Obama Administrations, and led to the release of many individuals imprisoned for their faith and ensures relief for many suffering under religious persecution.
Soul competency is a Christian theological perspective on the accountability of each person before God.
The most notable example restriction was in Metz, whose Parlement's actions explicitly excluded certain rights for Jews within its domain, such as drafting of lists of grievances, unlike in the rest of France.
The law ensured that citizens could use their tax dollars to support the church of their choice, not just the one officially sponsored by their community.
Societal abuses and discrimination There were limited reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Societal attitudes NGOs and unregistered religious groups report that they have had difficulties altering negative public attitudes towards smaller, unregistered religious organizations, because of the social stigma associated with not having the same legal benefits accorded to registered religions.
The textbook the MET wrote on the minority religions was called Talimat-e Maxhadi Vizheh-ye Aqaliathaye Mazhabi - (Kalimi, Zarthoshti, Masihi); Religious Studies Specifically for Religious Minorities: (Jews, Zoroastrians, Christians.) The course was taught by Muslim teachers at least 3 hrs/wk.
On 4 June 1992 she was dismissed after 22 months of employment, and paid one month's pay in lieu of notice.
In recent years this court determined that it is illegal to block the access of any group to its religious services and that criticism of religious belief is a protected free speech right.
Undersecretary Mustafa Lakadamyalı claimed that the move was to prevent the "abuse" of the permission to hold masses, also citing difficulties with the policing of more than one mass a day or frequent masses.
Subsequently, the university authorities refused, on the same grounds, to allow her to enrol her in a course, or to admit her to various lectures and a written examination.
Many of Maryland's first settlers were Catholic, including at least two Catholic priests, one of whom became the earliest chronicler of the colony's history.
History Established in 2006 by bipartisan co-founders Trent Franks, a Republican from Arizona, and Emanuel Cleaver, II, a Democrat from Missouri, the Caucus has worked to ensure that religoious freedom remains a high priority in United States foreign policy, development, and refugee law.
The Constitution of Burundi provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
Kazakh authorities accused the group of encouraging terrorism, however an independent analysis by Adil Soz showed that messages on the server did not incite hatred or violence based on religion, nor the superiority of any religion.
The Government refused on the grounds that "there was no sign of any crime in their actions." Despite the BOC's favored status, the Government also warned about the "excessive influence" of the BOC.
Religious discrimination The 2007 study found incidents of societal abuse and discrimination based on religious belief primarily between Christians and Muslims.
Tanzimat was an Ottoman reform process that sought equal protection under the law in Ottoman lands for all people; however, it did not address matters of religious freedom.
The relevance of this reply is a subject of heated debate, with scholars such as Robert Boston emphasizing its importance, and others such as Mark David Hall arguing that the letter was a historical outlier.
More commonly, seminarians were sent abroad for training, although such stop-gap measures did not nearly make up for the losses imposed by the May Laws.
Practitioners of the Bwiti religion have faced persecution by Christian missionaries and French colonial authorities, as well as some members of the present Gabon government.
Those then whose joy is in things spiritual will even here have some foretaste of that reward; but it will be made perfect in every part when this mortal shall have put on immortality.
The Cyprus Humanist Association accused the Ministry of Education of discriminations against atheists.
The merit will be doubled by the other lesson that Religion flourishes in greater purity, without than with the aid of Govt.
The magistrate's business is to defend the doctor as he defends the peasant, the artisan, the physician, anyone else, against injustices.
Various other reforms were proposed along liberal lines, such as a single age of consent, abolition of blasphemy laws, and equal rights in law for homosexuals.
References External links The amazing life of the Ottoman Bosnian Ahdname Works related to Ahdname of Milodraž at Wikisource
On 7 May 1992 she was told that her contract of employment was to be amended to include Sunday as a normal working day, on a rota basis, with no enhanced rate of pay.
Other members of the society included Rafael Karsten, Rolf Lagerborg, Gunnar Landtman, Knut Tallqvist, Wilhelm Bolin, Yrjö Hirn, Hjalmar Magnus Eklund, Harry Federley, Alma Söderhjelm, Gunnar Castrén, K.
The congregation comprises people who are descended from B'nei Anusim, also known as Conversos, Jews who were either forcibly converted to Christianity during the Spanish Inquisition and later returned to Judaism.
There were also unconfirmed reports that followers of Ismaili Islamic teachings were occasionally harassed and forbidden entry to mosques affiliated with Salafi followers.
The Government enforced these immigration laws; if foreign workers were found to proselytize, they were expelled from the country.
History Due to the United Kingdom having been formed by the union of previously independent states from 1707, most of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures.
The five who remain imprisoned are: Beket Mynbasov, Samat Adilov, Nazim Abdrakhmanov, Ernar Samatov and Bolatbek Nurgaliyev.
Monarchy The Act of Settlement 1701 decrees that the monarch of Great Britain (later the United Kingdom) "shall join in communion with the Church of England".
Childhood Louisa Jane Nottidge was born at her grandmother's house, Fulling Mill House, Bocking, Essex in 1802.
The use of the word Rattagudlu (meaning an office) has been found in inscriptions from present day Andhra Pradesh dated prior to the 8th century indicating it was a South Indian word.
The ideologies set forth by this new "American School" of thought were then used to justify maintaining an enslaved population to sustain the increasing number of slave plantations in the American South during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
He graduated valedictorian both in Elementary and High School at NORSU, formerly NONAS in Bayawan, completed A.B.
His other major publications were American Antiquities and Discoveries of the West (1833) and Slavery, As It Relates to the Negro (1843), each of which was published in multiple editions.
In 1975, due to pressure from the local churches and religious groups in the area, Ripley's changed their names to World of the Unexplained and re-outfitted them with new attractions.
Eumelus, succeeded his father Admetus as the King of Pherae, and his mother was Alcestis, daughter of King Pelias of Iolcus.
This is the man who brought the news that the fleet of the hero in Sicily was on fire Eumelus, one of the Suitors of Penelope who came from Same along with other 22 wooers.
Interest in Iceland The country of Iceland was of particular interest to Nazi leadership due to their belief that the country was the Thule area which served as the birthplace of the Aryan race.
Tarshish (Tarshishah in Chronicles): Candidates include (Tartessos) in Spain and Tharros in Sardinia, both of which appear unlikely, and Tarsus in Cilicia, which appears more likely despite some linguistic difficulties.
His data was published in Pyramidographia (1646) which theorized a geometric cubit was used by the builders of the Great Pyramid (see: Egyptian royal cubit).
One of the collaborators of the de Naoillats; Jeanne Lépine-Authelain; corresponded with the esotericist Paul Le Cour who displayed an interest in the Hiéron's claims about Atlantis.
Locations The Haunted Adventure attractions are located within or near existing Ripley properties: Gatlinburg, Tennessee - opened in 1999 and located next to Ripley's 5D Moving Theater on Parkway (US-441S) and short drive from within Ripley Aquarium (c.
It vanished under the surface approximately 12,000 years ago due to rising ocean levels from melting ice caps after the last Glacial Maximum.
See also Inline speed skating Road skating References External links Buggy Rollin Official Website Jean-Yves Blondeau at YouTube
By the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, it was believed that Indo-Europeans (generally referred to as Aryans) were the highest branch of humanity due to their technological advancement.
In 2016 he rediscovered the wreck of the Schiedam, a ship involved in the evacuation of English Tangier in 1684 and associated with Samuel Pepys, and in 2018 the site of the President, an English East Indiaman.
The Epsilon Team (Greek: Ομάδα Έψιλον, romanized: Omada Epsilon) is an alleged secret society that appears in modern Greek folklore, conspiracy theories and ufology.
The Sharon plain also attracted Arab migration during the Mandatory period, driven by Jewish settlement and government development initiatives that eradicated malaria, enhanced healthcare services, extended life expectancy, and generated job opportunities in the area.
Its foundation was a response to the declaration by UNESCO, which dismissed the validity of race as a biological concept, and to attempts to end racial segregation in the American South.
The rock is promoted as an attraction as part of a "Trail of the Vikings" featuring supposed evidence of Norse exploration of Minnesota.
Scythia and the Lower Danube Prior to their entanglements with Rome, Jordanes (V 38) describes the Goths as having moved around between different parts of Scythia and Dacia, all north of the Danube and Black Sea.
1427, July 1932 Home media A 2-DVD release featuring 24 of these theatrical shorts is available in the United States beginning March 16, 2010, from Warner Home Video, through their Warner Archive manufacture-on-demand program.
This pride was expressed as early as the medieval chronicles, where chroniclers wrote about the Goths as the ancestors of the Scandinavians, and the idea was used by Nicolaus Ragvaldi at the Council of Basel to argue that the Swedish monarchy was the foremost in Europe.
Following Russell's death in 1916, a seventh volume—entitled The Finished Mystery—was published in 1917 and advertised as his "posthumous work".
By Lysidice, daughter of Hippodamia and Pelops, he sired Hippothoe, who mothered Taphius by the god Poseidon.
In the following years, Corbu set up a pasta factory which he named les pâtes Claire after his eldest child, his daughter Claire, situated at route d'Elne, Perpignan.
Two of those accounts mention an inscription above the entrance to Great Zimbabwe, written in characters not known to the Arab merchants who had seen it.
It is further claimed there is proof that in the locality where Dantidurga lived Kannada was the spoken language.
Renaissance tradition says the pillars bore the warning Ne plus ultra (also Non plus ultra, "nothing further beyond"), serving as a warning to sailors and navigators to go no further.
Origins The name is derived from the Gothicists' belief that the Goths had originated from Sweden, based on Jordanes' account of a Gothic urheimat in Scandinavia (Scandza).
These inhabited from Cophen, an Indian river, and in part of Asia adjoining to it." Aram: "Aramites, which the Greeks called Syrians".
An advertisement for the book in Zion's Watch Tower called it "the true interpretation", and it was promoted as being "of the Lord—prepared under his guidance." Immediate controversy surrounded both its publication and content.
It was soon established that it was largely written and compiled by two of Russell's associates, Clayton J.
An idea of the Italian humanist Luigi Marliano, it bears the motto Plus Ultra, Latin for "further beyond", implying the pillars were a gateway to more.
Each of these symbols were identified in the Secret Files of Henri Lobineau (doc 6) titled "The Hieron of Val d'Or" dated February 5 or 6 and June 24.
In 1911, Scotford's stepdaughter signed an affidavit in which she stated that she had seen him making the objects and when she denied their validity he threatened her life.
Development The German eugenicist Alfred Ploetz introduced the term "racial hygiene" (Rassenhygiene) in 1895 in his Racial Hygiene Basics (Grundlinien einer Rassenhygiene).
After visiting earthworks in Ohio and New York, Priest concluded that these mounds could be traced back to a lost race that had inhabited America even before the Native Americans.
Wilson develops this idea of civilizations founded on Lunar Knowledge together with astronomy to explain the monumental and seemingly spontaneous achievements of ancient cultures such as the Pyramid Complex at Giza in Egypt.
It is common in New Age magazines to see advertisements for open metal-poled pyramids large enough to meditate under.
Valencia notes that many of the supportive comments for the book come from Pioneer grantees like Rushton himself, and that a 100,000 copy print-run of the third edition was financed by Pioneer.
For years, the creator of these remains was unknown, though it was then determined, through a meticulous inspection of his finds and collections, that Charles Dawson himself was most likely responsible for this forgery.
Quite separately, certain artists from the 15th century onward made measurements of heads and skulls with a view to attaining greater accuracy in their representation of those parts of the human frame.
The theory also hypothesizes that a single factor, the "K factor", affects multiple population statistics Rushton referred to as "life-history traits".
These narratives tend to portray a period of submission to the new rulers before which the islanders grew hostile, refusing to herd flocks and till fields as commanded.
Some of the experiments were used for general medical research, for example by injecting prisoners with known diseases to test vaccines or possible cures.
They later travelled to Ireland, where one of the surviving Judahite princesses, Tea Tephi, married a local High King of Ireland.
His interest in archaeology developed and he had an uncanny knack for making spectacular discoveries, leading The Sussex Daily News to name him the "Wizard of Sussex".
Furthermore, Georges Vacher de Lapouge's racial classification ("Teutonic", "Alpine" and "Mediterranean") was re-used by William Z.
As soon as Nancy arrives, she is knocked out by someone wearing a skeleton costume, and she soon discovers that Bruno was the proud owner of the "Whisperer", a crystal skull rumored to protect its holder from almost any cause of death except murder.
But starting from about the 1930s, paleoanthropologists turned to the view that human beings first evolved in the next era, the Pleistocene (2.6 million to 11,700 years ago).
This premise, however, has been heavily contested and met with scepticism by a number of eminent historians such as Carlo Troya who is esteemed as a leading figure on Italian history during the early middle ages.
Advocates state that the historic coastlines of western Europe and eastern North America during the Last Glacial Maximum are now under water and thus, evidence of Solutrean-era seafaring may have been obliterated or submerged.
The other HDF leaders are Matthew Frost, a British former teacher and founder of the Aporia Magazine, and Erik Ahrens, a German white nationalist and social media advisor for the far-right party Alternative für Deutschland (AfD).
Following the Maccabean Revolt, the consequent Hasmonean conquests in Palestine prompted Jewish settlement outside of Judea in Galilee, Samaria, and Idumaea, establishing a preponderance of Jewish elements throughout Palestine by the 1st century BC, where pagans and Samaritans also lived.
After six to eight months (corresponding possibly to the embryonic period) the Fanany (so the Betsileo believe) then appears in daylight in the form of a lizard.
The print was cited by creationists and pseudoscience advocates as an out-of-place artifact, but was debunked by palaeontologists as the result of a natural geologic process known as spall formation.
And he brings forward various objections to their analysis of eoliths, stone artifacts sometimes regarded as tools.
In order to eliminate "defective" citizens and rid the country of the intellectually disabled or those who were born with genetic deficiencies, as well as those who were deemed racially inferior, the T-4 Euthanasia Program was administered by Karl Brandt, one of Hitler's personal physicians.
The study theme was: "systems that underline the sensations caused by the displacement of the human center of gravity in relation to support points in order to move into space".
He intimated that in such cases the fittest are not the physically strongest, nor the cunningest, but those who learn to combine so as mutually to support each other, strong and weak alike, for the welfare of the community.
Among these supposed properties are the ability to preserve foods, sharpen or maintain the sharpness of razor blades, improve health, function "as a thought-form incubator", trigger sexual urges, and cause other effects.
Rosenberg's theory, Weltanschauungswissenschaften, was implicit in the idea that Germany had the right to takeover other nations - or even exterminate them - since German culture was "superior" to the culture of other groups.
Adventure Gaming Magazine thought it was a bit of a letdown to its predecessors in the series, which featured "cleverly themed puzzles, captivating soundtracks, and fun characters".
Hidden camera footage revealed Matthew Frost in 2023 claiming that "they've managed to get access to the UK Biobank," and to know more "talk to Emil".
Seven members of the group were charged with abuse of a corpse as well as child abuse due to the presence of two children in the property.
Also, standing on the platform of the largest pyramid on the day of the Summer solstice it is possible to experience a double sunset, as first the sun sets behind a mountain top, then it emerges again from behind the mountain and sets a second time behind a neighbouring peak.
Because the limited evidence giving provenance to Khafre is ambiguous, the idea of who built the Sphinx, and when, continues to be the subject of debate.
Hermann Helmuth, a professor of anthropology at Trent University, said, "It is in a way personal and political propaganda.
Daughter and colleague of Marcel Griaule, Geneviève Calame-Griaule, defended the project, dismissing Van Beek's criticism as misguided speculation rooted in an apparent ignorance of esoteric tradition.
The rocks of this group are also criss-crossed by numerous sets of parallel, vertically oriented joints in the rock.
The theory later become popularized and among other practitioners and researchers in pseudo-scientific fields, such as Michael Lawrence Morton, Richard C.
The Michigan Relics are considered to be one of the most elaborate and extensive pseudoarchaeological hoaxes ever perpetrated in American history.
He claimed to have found it with his daughter Anna at the Maya ruin of Lubaantun while on an expedition to British Honduras (present-day Belize) in the 1920s.
Vimanika Shastra An incomplete version, containing the first six chapters, archived by Sacred Texts web site The Vimanika Shastra Archived 19 January 2012 at the Wayback Machine An incomplete version, containing the first six chapters, archived by scribd.com Rao, M.
Hancock also argues that meditation and psychoactive plants enabled ancient builders to move large stones, asserting that granite blocks at the Great Pyramid of Giza were raised by "priests chanting", a scenario he links to acoustic levitation.
It was published during the same time period as other texts considered foundational in Anthropology, such as Ancient Society, Primitive Culture, and Éléments d'anthropologie générale.
His conclusions have been called into question: According to some, multiplying the individual name probabilities is wrong because many permutations of the same names are possible.
Prevention and remedy In addition to identifying drapetomania, his feeling was that with "proper medical advice, strictly followed, this troublesome practice that many Negroes have of running away can be almost entirely prevented".
Lennart Möller (24 September 1954 – 19 November 2021) was a professor of environmental medicine at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden.
Sheila Ostrander and Lynn Schroeder, authors of the paranormal, visited Czechoslovakia in 1968, where they happened upon a cardboard pyramid manufactured commercially by Drbal.
The legend did remain current in the folklore of Schwyz and Hasli in the 19th century, no doubt reinforced by historiographical and literary tradition.
The World of the Unexplained were two museums, opened in 1972 by Ripley's Believe It or Not!, one at Fisherman's Wharf in San Francisco (37°48′29″N 122°24′55″W) and one in Gatlinburg, Tennessee, originally called the Museum of Witchcraft and Magic.
Some factors taken into consideration while deciphering an object, structure or megalithic monument can include the features such as faces, stairs, sides, and terraces.
Controversies continued when identical measurements were found between Sotheby's skull and Mitchell-Hedges' skull, leaving the authenticity of this artifact questionable at best.
Strabo had believed that Zalmoxis was a slave of Pythagoras, and mentioned Decaeneus as a Dacian disciple living in the much later time of the Dacian king Burebista.
In 1990 Heyerdahl, became aware of the "Canarian Pyramids" by reading an article written by Francisco Padrón in the Tenerife newspaper "Diario de Avisos" detailing "real pyramids on the Canaries".
The text of the document attributed to "Antoine L'Ermite" was modelled on Charroux's account found in his book, Trésors du Monde, where he extensively quoted Noël Corbu.
Beliefs Steiger described "Star People" in his 1976 book on contactees as "humans who come from a special gene pool linked to visits by extraterrestrials".
He stated that the malady was a consequence of masters who "made themselves too familiar with [slaves], treating them as equals".
The group also concluded that the "inscriptions" were just vertical grooves that had been worn into the less resistant parts of the stone.
It seems most likely that it is a piece of cast iron used as ballast in mining machinery, deposited during mining efforts before it was found apparently within the seam.
The date of composition of Genesis 1–11 cannot be fixed with any precision, although it seems likely that an early brief nucleus was later expanded with extra data.
In fact, as mentioned, it is at the Heimathaus Museum in Vöcklabruck, Austria, which is where the photo was taken.
They also point to the relative absence of loose blocks on the flat areas of the formation, which would be expected if they were formed solely by natural erosion and fracturing.
Pikirayi and Kaarsholm suggest that this presentation of Great Zimbabwe was partly intended to encourage settlement and investment in the area.
Only a few prominent peoples in history, such as Jews, Chinese people, Armenians, Greeks, Persians, and Scandinavians are considered non-Turkic by Adzhi.
He highlights Black intellectuals and civilizations as evidence of Black people's equality and contributions to human knowledge as a whole.
of Ashkenazi Levites found a high frequency of haplogroup R1a-M582 among them (64.9% of Ashkenazi Levites) pointing to a founding event and paternal ancestor common to half of them.
Bughao works for Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR) and Director Auxiliary of the 128th Squadron of Philippine Coast Guard Auxiliary [2018-2022].
He proposed that Chadic stems from Berber (some other authors group it with southern Afroasiatic languages such as Cushitic ones).
Eumelus married Iphthime, daughter of Icarius of Sparta, and possibly by her, became the father of Zeuxippus.
In response, a UK Biobank representative commented that they have "continued to monitor and prevent attempts to access the resource by Kirkegaard and other researchers believed to be connected with him".
Major proponents of the hypothesis include alternative Egyptologist John Anthony West, and geologist Robert Schoch.
Prof Archie Roy (an astronomer and psychic researcher) and Robert Lomas gave a joint talk about technological possibilities in Megalithic society at the 2000 Orkney International Science.
However, the souterrains have been dated to the late Iron Age, thousands of years after the supposed impact event.
"From Rousseau's Theory of Natural Equality to Firmin's Resistance to the Historical Inequality of Races".
Though the house and the group's bank accounts were in Lamboy's name, he was not charged in connection with the corpse.
In the much older Assyrian tradition itself, Ashur is the name of the chief deity in Mesopotamian religion and the name of the city state of Assur.
Such a composite image is discussed as a character called Fosana, whose legends are told as "a collage of loosely connected incidents from the Prophet's life and times".
In 1968, William Meister was searching for trilobite fossils in 500-million-year-old strata known as the Cambrian Wheeler Formation near Antelope Springs, Utah.
Their third son, Captain Guy Lutley Sclater, died on 26 November 1914, aged 45, in the accidental explosion that sank HMS Bulwark.
It contains one phrase on each side: Holy of Holies King of the Earth The Law of God The Word of God The second find came later in November 1860 when Wyrick and his excavation team came across a sandstone box that contained a small, black rock within it.
Pseudoarchaeological claims of artificial structures Kimura first estimated that the formation must be at least 10,000 years old, dating it to a period when it would have been above water, and therefore surmised that the site may be a remnant of the mythical lost continent of Mu.
Two other stones were also found at Newark shortly after Wyrick's death (they have since been lost).
This book introduced both the concept of pyramid power and the story about Antoine Bovis to the English-speaking world.
Welsing derived her hypothesis partly through a neo-Freudian analysis of cultural symbols rather than scientific evidence, arguing that the motivation for white supremacy is an unconscious response to white genetic and sexual inferiority.
After returning to England, he practised law for several years and attended meetings of the Zoological Society of London.
Paranormal researcher Benjamin Radford states that often "anything not immediately explainable or obvious is interpreted as a baffling mystery, often with paranormal connotations.
Humboldt and Kingsborough were in turn cited by Godfrey Higgins, whose Anacalypsis (1833) contributed to the emergence of perennial philosophy and claims that all religions had a common, ancient origin in a Golden Age of the distant past.
And thirdly that since the beech tree distribution was limited historically to the regions west of the Eurasian Steppe, this is where this language was spoken.
In some accounts, the wife of Ilus was called Eurydice, daughter of Adrastus or Batia, daughter of Teucer.
Nott and George Gliddon in their monumental tribute to Morton's work, Types of Mankind (1854), carried Morton's ideas further and backed up his findings which supported the notion of polygenism.
Ngaa traditions In some accounts, the invaders arrive in a large sailing vessel that landed on the mainland opposite the islands western shore.
The museums displayed not only witchcraft attractions but new ones that featured Bigfoot, flying saucers, the Bermuda Triangle, werewolves, and a fortune teller with a talking crystal ball.
He is also a promoter of pseudoarchaeology influenced by Zecharia Sitchin's ideas of ancient astronauts.
Agreeing with the philosopher Giorgio de Santillana's thesis developed in Hamlet's Mill (1969), Wilson places the genesis of mythology previous to fertility cultures, linking the fundamental myths to astronomical occurrences such as the Precession of the Equinoxes.
The prototypes have evolved into safer, more comfortable and easier machines that can be adapted to all different morphologies.
His books and pamphlets, which presented both standard and speculative history and archaeology sold in the thousands.
Atlantean and Lemurian races Leadbeater and Scott-Elliot provided much more detail than Blavatsky on the lives of the supposed Atlantean and Lemurian root races.
James Legge, whose still-admired translations of the Chinese Classics appeared at the same time as Lacouperie's, questioned Lacouperie's sinological competence.
In the absence of Maxine Dietrich, the organization is sustained by her advocates and has undergone significant changes.
Mankind Quarterly is a pseudoscientific journal that covers physical and cultural anthropology, including human evolution, intelligence, ethnography, linguistics, mythology, archaeology, and biology.
Peoples from all over the world have supposed themselves descended from various different eponymic or mythical progenitors.
A Hindi translation was published in 1959, while the Sanskrit text with an English translation was published in 1973.
He was a signatory to A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism, a 2001 public relations exercise by the Discovery Institute, a creationist group based in Seattle, Washington.
Dated finds such as Chinese, Persian and Syrian artefacts also support the 12th- and 15th-century dates.
A detailed review in the Bryn Mawr Classical Review comments on the discrepancies in Collina-Girard's dates and use of coincidences, concluding that he "has certainly succeeded in throwing some light upon some momentous developments in human prehistory in the area west of Gibraltar.
It must be understood as a military victory in terms of successfully imposing a new administrative system, language, and religion upon the indigenous groups.
Expanding upon Boulainvilliers' use of ethnography to defend the Ancien Régime against the Third Estate's claims, Gobineau divides the human species into three major groups: white, yellow and black, claiming that "history springs only from contact with the white races".
Cremo and Thompson fail to take account of this, he says, and seem to want to accord equal value to all finds.
They had no use for cattle but the idea of domesticated herds appealed to them, and they began domesticating reindeer, an animal they had long hunted.
As such, social Darwinism has been criticized for being an inconsistent philosophy, which does not lead to any clear political conclusions.
In The Social Organism (1860), Spencer compares society to a living organism and argues that, just as biological organisms evolve through natural selection, society evolves and increases in complexity through analogous processes.
In 1888 he was entrusted with a vast anthropological investigation to be the carried out on approximately 300,000 military classes of 1859 and 1863.
In Philadelphia he met Spencer Baird, John Cassin and Joseph Leidy at the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Erik Ahrens, an HDF leader, has defended the Waffen-SS and has stated that he wants to create a home for "white, Christian people", as he believes they are under threat from immigration.
Stoddard's thesis is that the white race has dominated world affairs for centuries and has created a civilization that is superior to all others.
In this overtly racist book, Priest seeks to use references from the Bible to prove that God created black people to be slaves.
Leucippe, a daughter of Thestor and possibly Polymele, and thus, sister of Theonoe, Calchas and Theoclymenus.
His other brothers were: Ampheres and Evaemon, Mneseus and Autochthon, Elasippus and Mestor, and lastly, Azaes and Diaprepes.
He concluded his work in 'Antropometria Militare', which consisted of two volumes, the first in 1896 and second in 1905.
Coat of arms The Pillars appear as supporters of the coat of arms of Spain, originating in the impresa of Spain's sixteenth-century Charles I, whose regnal name as Holy Roman Emperor was Charles V.
Lehner responded that these tombs were protected from erosion by sand and debris for most of their history, asking Schoch and West to clarify which mastabas they were referring to exactly.
In 2021, a remastered 4K version of the film was released by Paramount and Lucasfilm on Ultra HD Blu-ray, produced using scans of the original negatives.
A similar classification was the vertical cephalic index, the categories of which were "chamaecranic" (low-skulled), "orthocranic", (medium high-skulled), and "hypsicranic" (high-skulled).
The concept has since been debunked as pseudoscience and shown to be part of the edifice of scientific racism.
Neurologist Steven Novella of Yale University Medical School says that the cranium exhibits all of the characteristics of a child who has died as a result of congenital hydrocephalus, and the cranial deformations were the result of accumulations of cerebrospinal fluid within the skull.
Oberg comments that "there is no archaeological evidence that the specific references to the twin hidden companions of Sirius are anywhere near that old.
Petrie's published reports of this triangulation survey, and his analysis of the architecture of Giza therein, were exemplary in its methodology and accuracy, disproving Smyth's theories and still providing much of the basic data regarding the pyramid plateau to this day.
In other publications she proposes three successive "waves" of expansion: Wave 1, predating Kurgan I, expansion from the lower Volga to the Dnieper, leading to coexistence of Kurgan I and the Cucuteni–Trypillia culture.
John Taylor and the golden ratio In the mid-19th century, Friedrich Röber studied various Egyptian pyramids which he linked to the golden ratio.
It is also possible to conclude that such a star could in no way be responsible for the flurry of sightings from the 1920s, it would be too faint and too close to Sirius A to have ever been seen by visual observers.
By the 1920s, social Darwinism found expression in the promotion of eugenics by the Chinese sociologist Pan Guangdan.
Notes References Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S.
However, according to David Meltzer, "[f]ew if any archaeologists—or, for that matter, geneticists, linguists, or physical anthropologists—take seriously the idea of a Solutrean colonization of America." The evidence for the hypothesis is considered more consistent with other scenarios.
The Hiéron du Val d'Or (English: "Sanctuary of the Golden Valley") was a Catholic esoteric secret society in France, which existed from 1873 until 1926.
A small, better trained team of archaeologists, with more concrete backgrounds and training with archeology, was led by Rosenberg and part of his Amt Rosenberg organization, the Reichsbund für Deutsche Vorgeschichte.
Synopsis Stoddard claims that there is a perceived threat of non-white "races" to the global dominance of the white race, "typified by the Russo-Japanese War," which he represents as a struggle of color against white.
The origin of the Basques and the Basque language is a controversial topic that has given rise to numerous hypotheses.
Similarly, in 1893, Anatole Leroy-Beaulieu, a critic of antisemitism who drew on Renan, queried whether or not thousands of Polish and Russian Jews might have their origins traced back to the "old nomads of the steppes".
Wind erosion Schoch states that wind erosion forms distinctive horizontal bands, whereas the water erosion features are clearly vertical.
The documentary chronicles Cox' life, mentorship, and humanitarian trips to Ethiopia and the Philippines, as well as her efforts to pass the CRPD in the US Senate.
Priest provides three pieces of evidence for why the Bible justifies the enslavement of black people.
The beech argument (German: Buchenargument) is a now mostly outdated argument in Indo-European studies that is in favour of placing the Indo-European Urheimat in an area west of a line connecting Kaliningrad and the Black Sea, based on the current distribution of European beech trees.
Applewhite believed he was directly related to Jesus, meaning he was an "Evolutionary Kingdom Level Above Human".
Gatterer's 1771 Einleitung in die Synchronistische Universalhistorie ("Introduction to the Universal Synchronistic History") was the first publication to use these terms in an ethnic sense.
While Greave's measurements were objective, his metrological data was later misused by numerologists: J.
The majority of the population lived in houses made out of mud on wooden frame structures, however the number of these can only be estimated.
600), repeats all of Jerome's identifications, but with these minor changes: Joktan, son of Eber: Indians Saleph, son of Joktan: Bactrians Magog, son of Japheth: "Scythians and Goths" Ashkenaz, son of Gomer: "Sarmatians, whom the Greeks call Rheginians".
The International Fortean Organization used the 1982 discovery of what were believed to be Phoenician amphorae in Guanabara Bay by Robert F.
Heyerdahl maintained a belief in the hypothesis that the pyramids were connected with Guanches until his death.
Anthony's revised steppe theory (2007) David Anthony's The Horse, the Wheel and Language describes his "revised steppe theory".
Pyramidology (or pyramidism) refers to various religious or pseudoscientific speculations regarding pyramids, most often the Giza pyramid complex and the Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt.
The Protest Psychosis: How Schizophrenia Became a Black Disease Depression Dromomania Political abuse of psychiatry Fugitive slave Classification of mental disorders Sluggish schizophrenia Biology of depression Gaslighting References Sources Samuel A.
In addition to Japan he describes a "brown reaction", which he calls "the Mohammedan Revival", taking as exemplary Yahya Siddyk's work "The Awakening of the Islamic Peoples in the Fourteenth Century of the Hegira".
See also NCERT textbook controversies 2015 Indian Science Congress ancient aircraft controversy References Further reading Jha, D.
In Plato's Critias, Mestor was the second of the fourth set of twins borne of Poseidon and the mortal, Cleito, and one of the first princes of Atlantis.
Whittlesey concludes at the time that the stones were a hoax, and assumed that the Bible was Wyrick's source of inspiration for the inscription.
Rushton's book is focused on what he considers the three broadest racial groups, and does not address other populations such as Southeast Asians and Australian Aborigines.
Applewhite was the third to last member to die; two people remained after him, and were the only ones found with bags over their heads and not having purple cloths covering their top halves.
Ellappa, a draughtsman at a local engineering college in Bangalore, under the direction of Shastry, which had been missed in the 1959 edition.
Scott-Elliot located Lemuria in the Pacific Ocean, claiming that it was a gigantic landmass that eventually sank, leaving only small islands.
That idea was picked up in the 1920s by Manly Palmer Hall who went on to suggest that they were the focus of the ancient Egyptian wisdom schools.
In 1913, Petrie sold his large collection of Egyptian antiquities to University College, London, where it is now housed in the Petrie Museum of Egyptian Archaeology.
History Readings by Edgar Cayce said that Atlantis was destroyed around 10,500 BC and that Atlantean refugees brought civilization to Egypt, constructing the Great Pyramid of Giza and the sphinx within the century or so that followed.
A new religious movement and form of Western esotericism, the Temple of Zeus espouses a religion known as Zevism, whose practitioners are called Zevists, identifying itself as a form of Satanism.
Leucippe, the heroine of The Adventures of Leucippe and Cleitophon by Achilles Tatius Notes References Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S.
He also featured in a commercial for Megapass, a broadband telecommunication service in South Korea.
Hence the presence of descendants of the term *bʰāg(ó) in Italic, Germanic, Albanian, Greek and (Indo-)Iranian, and potentially Celtic, Slavic, and Baltic, indicates that this word belonged to the Proto-Indo-European language.
Apart from the elevated views over the Peak itself, a large attraction was that this line passed close to Dovedale.
In 1988 the Wildlife Institute of India recommended that Mannarkkadu Valley 225.00 km2 be established as a protected area.
Structure Structurally, they consist of dry-stone lava stone enclosures, almost always circular in shape.
Unsanctioned visits In 2009, an account was published of an unauthorized exploration "a couple of years ago" with photographs by Shane Perez.
The walkway is intended to give people the feeling of moving through history with use of the trestle and a new structure.
But, the main gate is best reached, either on foot or by bike, from Teddington's town centre, which is served by the 33, 281, 285, 481, R68, and X26 services, via Park Road, or from the railway station.
Some gardens are for ornamental purposes only, while others also produce food crops, sometimes in separate areas, or sometimes intermixed with the ornamental plants.
Land managers have devised a variety of techniques to block the creation of desire paths, including fences, dense vegetation, and signage, though none are foolproof.
The iSOPARC is an application that implements the SOPARC protocol to generate park use data from the field and to store, process and export it.
Elevated parks have been criticized for high costs, though they have generally attracted positive reviews, including from academia.
In January 2018, "Hops and Headwaters" in support of a campaign to protect the headwaters of the Bighorn Backcountry" was held in Edmonton.
Sepak Takraw: (Thai: เซปักตะกร้อ) The area set aside for this ancient sport "Sepak Takraw" or simply "takraw" is always busy with players of every age and nationality enjoying this blend of hackysack, soccer, and volleyball.
Weightlifting: All along the perimeter path are sturdy devices for exercise, and in the northeast corner is a modern, covered area with weights, benches and a sand floor.
The park has hosted public events such as Summer Movie Mania, an outdoor screening sponsored by the city government.
The trestle is 46 feet high and was originally an elevated narrow gauge rail line for raw materials, built around 1905.
Sépaq falls under the authority of the Minister of Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs (Sustainable development, Environment and Parks) and its head office is located in Quebec City.
The Ceiriog Valley was not added to the AONB, due to the valley's physical relationship with the Berwyn mountain range which crosses the local authority border into Powys, where an extension of the AONB is not supported.
Stone was quarried from a sill of dolerite rock, which was the result of lava rising through the strata of the surrounding limestone 'Derbyshire Dome'.
Smaller urban wilds are used for passive recreation and have less value to the city in terms of enhancing ecosystem function.
The Park and Pleasure Drive Association urged the city to buy the land, but the City Council had not yet accepted that public parks were the city's responsibility.
History The park was given to the people of Govan in 1885 by Isabella Elder, in memory of her husband, the shipbuilding magnate John Elder.
Most towns and cities in Belgium and the southern part of the Netherlands have in their historical centre a Grote Markt (literally "Big Market") in Dutch or Grand-Place (literally "Grand Square") in French (for example the Grand-Place in Brussels and the Grote Markt in Antwerp).
The Piazza San Marco in Venice and Piazza del Popolo in Rome are among the world's best known Italian piazzas.
The American Public Transportation Association, Blue Cross Blue Shield Minnesota, the National Association of Realtors, and the Institute of Transportation Engineers are examples of other current Coalition Steering Committee members.
Over Rail Corridor Area (ORCA) project In May 2017, a new development submission was made to the City of Toronto by a consortium identified as P.I.T.S.
Neighborhood parks, which generally range in size up to 30 acres (120,000 m2), serve as a social and recreational focal points for neighborhoods and are the basic units of a park system.
A capstone, measuring 1.96 metres (6 ft 5 in) by 1.05 metres (3 ft 5 in), is supported by smaller stones.
Greenprinting often involves use of state-of-the-art maps and models created with Geographic Information System (GIS) software that combines layers of spatial and demographic information to guide growth management efforts.
Some greens that used to be commons, or otherwise at the centres of villages, have been swallowed up by a city growing around them.
The plan amendment called for the north end of the rail corridor to be redeveloped with eight high-rise towers, while just over half of the lot—some 12.8 acres—would be devoted to a new public park on the south half of the site.
This region includes all the islands and islets within the territory of the Municipality of La Maddalena, Italy.
There are also two memorials, commemorating the SS Daphne disaster in 1883 and the HMS K13 submarine disaster in 1917, both of which involved the death of local shipyard workers (from Stephens and Fairfields respectively).
Van Zuylen closes her book with a reflection: Garden-making, like other art forms, draws on the past as it looks to the future.
As suburbs developed around major European cities, the attitude to privacy, and by extension to front gardens, was decidedly different from that of the British.
New Zealand In New Zealand, regional parks are administered by regional councils rather than the Department of Conservation or territorial authorities.
National Association of State Park Directors is an organization dedicated to the preservation of state parks in the United States.
The lake also gives its name to the Malta theatre festival, held in Poznań annually in June, with some of the shows taking place next to the lake.
Safdie himself warned the city of this new tactic, stating that development projects in Toronto were being approved, then subsequently revised to provide a lower-quality, lower-cost development in place of an approved project.
Such tables first came into widespread use in the United States in the 1930s, as part of Civilian Conservation Corps projects.
Males of the Steller's Jay in particular seek out territory near picnic tables because of the superior feeding opportunities.
In addition to these courtyards, Village Homes residents share two large parks, two vineyards, and numerous small orchards and community gardens.
The territory of the National Park will also represent an important part of the Bocche di Bonifacio international marine park which will soon be established.
A burial ground of enslaved men, women, and children is located to the southwest of the mansion, adjacent to the site of the property's "sugar camp.".
One of the earliest of such parks was the Promenade plantée (Coulée verte René-Dumont) in Paris, dating to 1993.
It has been proposed since 2002 to be established in the Tenasserim Hills over an area of 680 mi2 (1,800 km2) and extended by 540 mi2 (1,400 km2) in 2004.
The park is home to species such as common frogs (*Rana temporaria*), moor frogs (*Rana arvalis*), lake frogs (*Pelophylax ridibundus*), and smooth newts (*Lissotriton vulgaris*).
In certain complex gardens, such as those designed by Sebastiano Serlio, early elements of labyrinths can be observed.
In this case, the front of the house will face the streets, while the back faces a small linear park containing a pathway, trees and grass connecting different areas together.
Then in the modern times, the beloved gardens of Gertrude Jekyll (Munstead Wood), Vita Sackville-West (Sissinghurst Castle Garden) and Major Lawrence Johnston (Hidcote Manor Garden).
Three ONAs have been designated by Congress, Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse, Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station, and Yaquina Head, all of which protect lighthouses and the adjacent land.
The Upper Pobuzhzhia National Nature Park (Ukrainian: Національний природний парк «Верхнє Побужжя», lit.
Key strategies used in the preservation of urban wilds have included conservation restrictions that keep complex land tenure systems in place while protecting the entire landscape.
The Italian villa culture flourished on the climatically favorable mountain slopes of Latium, Tuscany, and Liguria.
A recreation center is a facility that supports myriad park activities, including sports and other recreational activities appropriate to the population or community that uses the park.
It contains Elder Park Library, a boating pond, the original Fairfield farmhouse, and Linthouse Mansion portico.
Eisenhower planned the D-Day landings from Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF) at Camp Griffiss in the Park.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Centro, Carabanchel, Usera, Latina, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
The endangered Gurney's pitta (Hydrornis gurneyi) was rediscovered in the area of the proposed park in 2003.
A marine park is a designated park consisting of an area of sea (or lake) set aside to achieve ecological sustainability, promote marine awareness and understanding, enable marine recreational activities, and provide benefits for Indigenous peoples and coastal communities.
In 1865, the Petrovsky Agricultural and Forestry Academy (now the Russian State Agrarian University – Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy) was founded on this land.
As the university expanded the botanical garden was replaced by Universitetsplatsen in the 1880s and the new university building, located just north of Kungshuset.
The concept was developed by regional community groups and forest ecologists and researchers from Australian National University and the University of Melbourne.
To estimate how much physical activity a park generates, it is possible to aggregate the total METs across park users.
The establishment of local pocket parks can reduce the stress upon larger urban parks, such as by eliminating overcrowding.
Most injuries on public playground equipment occurred on climbing equipment (53%), swings (19%), and slides (17%).
Examples in Britain include Ventnor Botanic Garden on the Isle of Wight, and parts of Beth Chatto's garden in Essex, Sticky Wicket garden in Dorset, and the Royal Horticultural Society's gardens at Harlow Carr and Hyde Hall.
Transport for London bus routes 111, 216, and 411 pass the Hampton Court Gate on Hampton Court Road (the main southern entrance to the Park).
A footpath runs from the Monsal Trail, over the footbridge at Litton Mill up through the dale to Tideswell.
Facilities and Features The park currently hosts the following facilities: Timofeev Selection Station, established in 1992 by the Russian State Agrarian University – Timiryazev Academy, to preserve the scientific tradition of vegetable crop breeding, founded by Professor A.
Transport The closest railway stations are Hampton Court in East Molesey to the south, Hampton Wick to the east, Teddington and Fulwell to the north, and Hampton to the west.
The foot of the valley leads into Miller's Dale on the River Wye, which the valley's Brook Head stream runs into.
It is about 2.2 km long (with the circuit of 5,6 km), which makes the lake the biggest man-made lake of the city.
Viewing points may also be found on hill or mountain tops or on rocky spurs overlooking a valley and reached via a hiking trail.
The High Line's annual budget is funded almost entirely by park visitors, though it is operated by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation license agreement.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
The trees were then felled and the mound was buried under soil to form part of the back gardens of the housing.
Water games Due to the scorching summers in Italy, the presence of springs and natural watercourses was a must for designing gardens.
Local authority plans In 2023, England's Economic Heartland, supported by consultants, AtkinsRéalis, recognised the greenway as a strategic inter-county route.
John Olin, head of the MPPDA, hired landscape architect Ossian Cole Simonds of Chicago to design the park.
The park also contains several lodges and cottages: Bushy House, housing the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) at the Teddington end, and the Royal Paddocks and two areas of allotments – the Royal Paddocks Allotments at Hampton Wick and the Bushy Park Allotments at Hampton Hill.
A park may feature walking paths and decorative landscaping, while a park intended to provide recreation for children may include a playground.
Oceania Australia Australian government The Australian Government manages an estate of marine protected areas (MPA) that are Commonwealth reserves under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act).
The Manual also serves as a resource for those outside of San Francisco working to establish parklet programs in their own cities.
The European Association of Periurban Parks (FEDENATUR) is an association of natural, fluvial and agricultural parks located in metropolitan and periurban areas in Europe.
When processes such as the decay of wood, winter dieback or succession are allowed to happen the natural cycle helps with biodiversity conservation.
Alberta Parks is a division of the Ministry of Forestry and Parks of the Government of Alberta which is responsible for managing Alberta's provincial parks and protected areas.
Section 7(3) of the act was repealed, and the act was extended, by section 8(1) of, and schedule 2 to, the Parish Councils Act 1957 (5 & 6 Eliz.
At Mapleton Lane, near Ashbourne (map ref: SK175473), there is a car park, cafe, toilets and cycle hire.
Metal forged at the location helped construct the Golden Gate Bridge, George Washington Bridge, and built more than 1,000 naval and merchant ships during World War II.
For example, the beach of Barcola is connected to the center of Trieste by bus and people of all ages take the opportunity to spend their free time by the sea.
Tideswell Dale is a short dry limestone valley near Tideswell village, Derbyshire, in the Peak District of England.
Réserves fauniques (Wildlife reserves) - manages 15 wildlife reserves in forested and wilderness areas.
In January, 2009, under the guidance of current owner, Will Sneyd, the first posts went in at the western end of the lake to build the launch platform for Adrenalin Quarry's first ride - The Zip.
In contrast to the MPPDA's "pleasure drives," this would be a public park for the common man, so it marks a turning point for the MPPDA.
In addition, Fordham Road's locally based businesses saw a 71 percent increase in retail sales, compared to 23 percent borough-wide.
In 1997 United Nations Environment Programme's World Conservation Monitoring Centre listed Karimpuza as a Protected area that overlaps with the South Western Ghats montane rain forests Ecoregion.
skyway, skybridge, or skywalk is an elevated type of pedway connecting two or more buildings in an urban area, or connecting elevated points within mountainous recreational zones.
As of 2025, all original buildings and attractions remain on the island, though several have sustained major damage from hurricanes and natural decay.
In this analysis the Coalition found that community outreach and context sensitivity were important characteristics included throughout the documented examples and were weighted considerably in determining the efficiency and effectiveness of examined policies.
The college, not the town, still owns it and surrounded it with buildings as a sort of collegiate quadrangle in the 1930s, although its origin as a town green remains apparent.
As a source of food subsidy from humans, picnic tables have been found to affect corvid activity as these birds seek out areas near picnic tables and may refrain from scavenging deeper in the forest.
This includes Chicago, Seattle, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., and Montréal, Canada, who have started to reclaim their alleys from garbage and crime by greening the service lanes, or back ways, that run behind some houses.
Formally the number 2 steelmaker in the country, Bethlehem Steel was dissolved and acquired by the International Steel Group in 2003.
Modern trail design attempts to avoid the need for barriers and restrictions, by aligning trail layout and user desire through physical design and persuasive outreach.
The distinction between a heritage centre or park, and a history-based theme park can become blurred, as at Nikko Edomura, focused on Feudal Japan, and Wild West City, a self-described "heritage theme park" about the American Old West.
Cllr Peter Strachan, answering councillors’ questions on the Buckinghamshire decision as the statutory authority said: "Allocating a site in a local plan is very different to implementing that site.
Filming location The island was occasionally used as a movie filming location, most notably for the climax of Treasure of Matecumbe, in which it doubled for the titular Florida Key.
Minnesota held a plebiscite in 1883 which created the independently-elected Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board.
(Archaeological work during a 2008 renovation uncovered artifacts and brick foundations from that house and another at 1613 P Street.) In 1951, work began on Stead Park, an explicitly unsegregated recreational facility.
In 1863, the first idea of creating a grand passage way through the park first arose, but it was only in 1873 when the Municipality of Lisbon took the decision to construct a great avenue through the Passeio.
The park known today was designed in 1745 by the Royal architect Carl Hårleman and originally included a botanical garden.
There are seven main historic types of common land in Scotland, some of which have similarities to common land in England and Wales.
"In 1485, the theorist Leon Battista Alberti first called for the garden to be related to architecture, to the villa, and to the visual arts, such as garden sculpture.
Common examples of park furniture include bandstands, benches, chess tables, fountains, light fixtures, picnic tables, and statues.
In some jurisdictions, furniture used in public parks is made by prison inmates as part of prison work programs.
Foster was a cousin of the Rowan family and reputedly an occasional visitor to Federal Hill, though Foster was likely inspired to write the ballad by Harriet Beecher Stowe's anti-slavery novel Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Landscape architect George Kessler designed extensive parkway systems for Kansas City, Missouri; Memphis, Tennessee; Indianapolis; and other cities at the beginning of the 20th century.
He was later an opposition Whig MP for Bossiney in Cornwall, and briefly Chief Secretary for Ireland.
The site previously hosted the Pulzor neighborhood, whose residents were primarily engaged in floriculture, producing rosewater and various herbal infusions from flowers and plant roots.
A list of parks in Madrid, Spain, sorted by district, is presented as follows: Arganzuela Parque Enrique Tierno Galván; 45.8 ha.
There are many types of flower in the park such as: Orange Jessamine Croton Climbing Ylang Ylang Ixora Rain Tree Tooth Blush Tree Banyan Tree Temple Tree == References ==
The Mayura Park also has a royal residence in the sense of being occupied by the king while resting in the garden, located in what is now the Padmasana.
Between 2000 and 2002, a major renovation was carried out, and new greenhouses covering 1.1 hectares were built using French-made structures by Richel Serres de France.
The Carboniferous limestone rocks of these dales were formed 350 million years ago from the shells and sediments of a tropical sea.
It is a challenging rock climbing location with over 200 graded routes, up to 50m long and including Mutation, graded 9a making it the hardest route in the Peak District.
It was criticized for its alleged association with Y2Y and Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society (CPAWS), described by critics as a "foreign-funded" organizations meddling in the Alberta's affairs.
From Hartington station northwards, the route is part of the Pennine Bridleway, a 130-mile (209 km) leisure route which includes 73 miles (117 km) through Derbyshire to the South Pennines.
Access into Tideswell Dale is easy from the B6049 road which runs down the valley from Tideswell in the north to Miller's Dale, about 1 km west of the south end of the dale.
These areas are dedicated to the conservation, promotion, and use of wildlife resources, and, secondarily, to the practice of outdoor recreational activities.
In 1839 a war broke out between the two kingdoms, which resulted in the defeat of Singasari, but the Mataram king was killed in action, he left 2 sons, crown prince Gde Ngurah Karangasem and Anak Agung Ketut Ngurah Karangasem.
The park, most of which is open to the public, is immediately north of Hampton Court Palace and Hampton Court Park and is a few minutes' walk from the west side of Kingston Bridge.
Other buildings in Lundagård are the AF Borgen, the Lund University Historical Museum and Palaestra et Odeum.
Despite the relatively short length of this branch line, it was deservedly popular with walkers and ramblers, enjoying its heyday in the 1930s.
Christianity The immense significance of the church at that time led to the development of a garden architecture that combined Christian ideals with the ideas of antiquity: from the confined garden spaces (Hortus conclusus) of the medieval cult of Mary to the open Garden of Eden.
25) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to open spaces in England and Wales and Ireland.
The trail has a firm crushed-limestone surface, which is suitable for cyclists, walkers and wheelchair users.
without changing carriages) for passengers from London Euston (via Nuneaton, Uttoxeter and Ashbourne) to Buxton and Manchester.
Mandla Plant Fossils National Park Indroda Dinosaur and Fossil Park, Gandhinagar, Gujarat National Fossil Wood Park, Tiruvakkarai National Fossil Wood Park, Sathanur Akal Wood Fossil Park, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Amkhoi Fossil Park, West Bengal.
The only surviving Caroline garden is located at Bolsover Castle in Derbyshire, but is too simple to attract much interest.
See also Observation Point (disambiguation) for specific places called "Observation Point" Observation deck Observation post Stratum Pier by artist Kendall Buster == References ==
Greenprinting is the creation of conservation scenarios that help communities make informed conservation decisions.
Creating secure areas with bars and locks lowers the beauty of the park, as well as the nature of who is in charge of observing the public space and the feeling of being observed.
For example, the two artificial beaches in New York City and many of the manmade beaches in German cities feature enclosed beach areas open to visitors, but the spaces are managed by private entities as food and drinks venues and close frequently for concerts and events.
Its borders soon attracted the finest homes of Lisbon personalities, leading to the eventual destruction of the park in order to construct a grand boulevard that would become the Avenida da Liberdade.
Early conservation in the United States, 1866–1916 The word was resurrected by Americans in the 19th and 20th centuries from the old idioms used for the wardens – royally appointed – who patrolled the deer parks and hunting forests in England.
These rangers may set policy for the parks, or handle park budgets, computers and technology, human resources, or other fields related to the administration of parks.
IUCNcategory PRO (proposed) In 1998 Karimpuzha was listed by the first World Heritage Forest meeting in Berastagi, Indonesia, as being of potential interest as a World Heritage Forest.
The Office of Public Works stated that the damage had resulted from the failure of the earlier repairs.
See also References This page was adapted, with permission, from informational materials developed by the National Complete Streets Coalition.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Although Disney never officially stated its reasons for closing the park, it is widely speculated that high costs of maintenance, declining attendance, improper treatment of animals, and the opening of a bigger and newer Disney Animal Kingdom are the most likely reasons.
Collections There are 3 pairs of statues of a Muslim leader wearing traditional Banjar clothing, placed in the east, south and west of the Bale Kambang courtyard, there is also 1 bronze cannon near the entrance of the bale kambang and 1 iron cannon near the entrance of the park.
Since then, Kew has redesigned the gardens to create a walk through the temperate woodlands of the world.
The National Playing Fields Association also promoted playgrounds across the middle of the century (one of its founding aims was to "secure proper playgrounds for children"), which in their mind equated to manufactured equipment.
The farm is best known for its association with American composer Stephen Foster's sentimental ballad "My Old Kentucky Home, Good Night".
Adrenalin Quarry is a family-owned visitor attraction and adventure park in Menheniot, Cornwall, United Kingdom.
After the late 1950s the focus of Alberta's parks policy began to shift from recreation to wilderness preservation.
Polk County is the most populous county in Iowa with around 500,000 residents living within the county boundaries, with the majority living in the Des Moines metro area.
This was either done to wield power, or protect the sanctity of the knowledge from getting diluted or misused.
Little Sugar Creek Greenway, 20-mile long greenway in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina The Loop, a network of seven linear parks encircling Tucson, Arizona, with over 100 miles of paved trails Manhattan Waterfront Greenway, a circumferential foot and cycle path around Manhattan Island.
History The trestle is located on 10 acres and features five furnaces with the oldest at the western end of the site dating from 1913.
The committee was to present its development and management plan to the Ministry of Municipal and Regional Affairs later that year.
After the popularity of the song increased throughout the United States, Federal Hill was purchased by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, dedicated as a historic site, and renamed "My Old Kentucky Home" on July 4, 1923.
FEDENATUR is currently giving input through different documents and mechanisms into the current EC Green Infrastructure Strategy.
Television critic Robert Lloyd, in an article for the LA Times, said it "strikes [him] as a kind of companion piece to the network's [then] currently airing Chowder and The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack.
There are stands representing gardens from neighbouring countries, and stands selling local products.
Between 1974 and 1999, it was an attraction open to guests, who could observe its many species of animals.
The Park's includes some beaches and these islands: La Maddalena, Caprera, Spargi and Spargiotto, Budelli, Razzoli e Santa Maria and the Isles of Nibani, Mortorio, Soffi e Camere.
The size of new front yards gradually decreased during the second half of the 20th century as houses were built closer and closer to the front of housing blocks.
It transforms a stretch of riverbank into a beach experience complete with sand, deck chairs, and water activities.
Stead Park is a 1.5-acre (0.61 ha) municipal park located in the Dupont Circle neighborhood of Northwest Washington, D.C.
Federal Hill Federal Hill, commonly known as "My Old Kentucky Home", is a historic 7,501 square feet (696.9 m2) mansion that was planned and commissioned by Judge John Rowan and his wife Ann Lytle.
Special Christmas candlelight tours are offered during the holiday season each year in which the mansion is decorated for the holiday and is lit by candlelight.
The Open Spaces Society states that in 2005 there were about 3,650 registered greens in England covering 8,150 acres (3,298 ha) and about 220 in Wales covering about 620 acres (251 ha).
The urban wilds prioritized by municipalities tend to be partial wetlands that perform a range of ecological services while contributing to the biological diversity of the region.
Hartington signal box, beside the trail although some distance from the village, has been converted to an information centre, which is open in summer on Saturdays, Sundays and Bank Holidays.
Elements in the physical design of a park, such as an open and welcoming entry, good visibility (sight lines), and appropriate lighting and signage can all make a difference.
A paradeisos was a playground for the Persian nobility, combining parklands, orchards and hunting grounds.
One study from the University of Pennsylvania concluded that converting vacant lots into pocket parks reduces crime rates.
The headquarters of the family's Fairfield Shipbuilding and Engineering Company were directly opposite the park to the north on Govan Road – the buildings still exist as the Fairfield Heritage Centre.
The first (in 2004) to identify periurban parks and list their functions (environmental, social, economic).
Tegnérsplatsen is located between the Historical Museum and the AF Borgen and contains a statue of Esaias Tegnér.
With this change of direction, Nolen continued Simonds' style of landscaping; he specified 96 varieties of plantings of which 85% were native.
Spaatz went on to command the US Army Air Forces throughout the European Theatre of Operations (ETO) and in early 1944 became commander of the newly formed US Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF) in Europe at Widewing.
The process of enclosure began to be a widespread feature of the English agricultural landscape during the 16th century.
In 1835, the most noteworthy reformulation of the park was initiated by Malaquias Ferreira Leal, architect for the Municipality of Lisbon.
See also List of protected areas of Quebec - list of national parks and reserves in Quebec, including those under management by Sépaq References External links Sépaq (Parcs Québec) official site
Projects FEDENATUR has promoted and participated in three European Interreg projects to technical exchanges and raising awareness on the concept of Periurban Parks.
Canada The development and history of Canadian front yards generally followed early American trends but diverged in the early 1900s.
Local restaurants were able to increase their street trading permits into the parklet - which also helped them maintain physical distancing for patrons waiting for takeaways during the COVID-19 pandemic.
It is a place for local people and tourists to visit and is a location for many of Chiang Mai’s festivals such as the Flower Festival.
These physical indicators—such as worn-down keys on a keyboard, chew marks on a pen, or paint transfers on road guardrails—provide an unbiased record of how an object or environment is actually used.
The mansion is constructed on a native limestone foundation that supports an English basement and two and a half stories, with an exterior primarily of brick that were fired on-site and laid in the Flemish bond pattern.
The area comprises evergreen forest at elevations from 50 to 4,078 ft (15 to 1,243 m), which is governed by Myanmar's Forest Department.
The tomb was repaired in 1973 and in the 1990s, including the addition of a concrete block to support the capstone.
In the late 2017, this park was closed by Chuwit Kamolvisit sold this land to Land and Houses with a value of 5,000 million baht.
In 2022, the city began a $15.4 million renovation of the recreation center, intended as a "modernization of the existing recreation facility with an addition and to bring it up to ADA standards." The new recreation center opened in Spring 2024.
Statistics As of 2014 the parks system included: In addition 10 sites representing 3,584 acres (1,450 ha) are controlled by Alberta Parks but are not (yet) designated as part of a park or protected area.
In 1927, the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission was formed to plan and acquire parklands along stream valley corridors in the then-rural northern and eastern suburbs of Washington, D.C.
Challenges to development of the greenway have included the intervening floodplain of Cuttle Brook, Scotsgrove Brook and the River Thame, along with the challenge of co-ordinating efforts across the Buckinghamshire-Oxfordshire border.
In societies with flexible tools of negotiation and bargaining on income, smoother mechanisms of adaptation may be available.
Evans School of Public Affairs Benefit-Cost Analysis Archived 18 January 2022 at the Wayback Machine site maintained by the Transportation Economics Committee of the Transportation Research Board(TRB).
Due to falling passenger numbers, rail subsidies from the government were necessary to keep the railways financially viable.
Choice Open Public Services, a white paper published by the Cameron–Clegg coalition in the United Kingdom in 2011, aimed to create a comprehensive policy framework for "good public services".
In both cases, the financial rewards of joining up are used as a central part of the "sales package" — continued use of these tactics in poor areas proves sufficiently successful in attracting a high level of new recruits.
These amendments are part of the General Budget of the Union (OGU) and are a way for parliamentarians to directly influence the allocation of public resources.
Criticism and concerns Definitional ambiguity Critics have noted that the term "digital public infrastructure" conflates two distinct meanings of "public": population-scale deployment versus public accountability and governance.
In 2018, Holcombe describes political capitalism as an economic system in which the sharp distinction between states and markets is blurred.
In 2009, he was appointed Founding Master of the Morningside College of the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
In January 1920, the Council recommended the creation of an Expert Survey Board to conduct research studies over the next six months to enable speedy mobilization in the event of another war.
The decision to privatization has been much criticized and Chile lamented for having been duped into losing her economic future to the hands of "predatory" capitalists.
The American school, centered largely in the United States, is characterized by its adherence to positivist, empirical methodologies and a focus on midlevel theory and state-centric analysis.
David Tyfield, of Lancaster University, described the book as "erudite and accessible" but questioned whether its central call for bridge-building between traditions genuinely addressed their deep conceptual differences.
The American Competitiveness Initiative (ACI) was a federal assistance program intended to help America maintain its competitiveness through investment in research and development (R&D) and education.
In Marxian economics and related schools, unearned income originates from the surplus value produced by an economy, where "surplus value" refers to value beyond what is needed for subsistence.
Likewise, although its heuristic model is straightforward to understand, the cycle is not totally applicable in all situations of policymaking due to it being far too simple as there are more crucial steps that should go into more complex real life scenarios.
References External links The ACI Press Briefing held on February 1, 2006 ACI Booklet from the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)
Their pamphlets in February 1815 had a little known precursor at the time in the work of James Anderson.
He is also the President of the Conflict and Education Learning Laboratory, a non-profit foundation, registered in the Netherlands, which is dedicated to working for an international agreement to reduce divisive stereotypes in school textbooks.
L MacDougall noted that in the early 1970s, "undergraduate courses in Canadian literature represented only 8% of the total offerings of departments of English." Courses in Quebec literature were also hard to find even in Quebec.
All draft documents, all arguments for and against a proposal, all final decisions, and the decision making process itself are made public and remain publicly archived.
It suggests that Medicare and Medicaid payment reductions could cause significantly lower profits and so started cost-cutting in hospitals necessary to avoid closing hospitals.
Legal aspects Certain official measures executed during Greece's state debt restructuring process and the subsequent private sector involvement were not covered by existing ISDA provisions for CDS contracts, as the International Monetary Fund conceded.
Departing from a three-phase rotation for short periods is not impossible, but prolonged deployment is detrimental both to the psychological health of service personnel, and to the operational life of equipment, leading to an unwanted turnover in personnel, and to premature failure of equipment.
Variations and implications Different nations and militaries will vary the rule of thirds according to their own financial and manpower situations.
This erosion of public trust not only diminishes their popularity but also undermines the effectiveness of governance.
For example, a government predistribution policy might require employers to pay all employees a living wage and not just a minimum wage, as a "bottom-up" response to widespread income inequalities or high poverty rates.
The soldiers were quartered in the houses of ordinary people, who had to provide shelter, food and Servisgeld, a defined sum to allow the soldier to buy firewood and salt.
The Byzantine Empire took advantage of its strategic position along various trade routes and the decline of Western Europe to rise to core status until its fall in 1453.
This idea was based on the concept that the multinational corporations had reaped profits far in excess of what was considered "normal business practice".
Mining companies are generally granted concessions to allow them to recoup their initial capital expenditures because of the risky nature of mining.
He then became Minister of Finance in the Marijnen cabinet serving from 24 July 1963 until 14 April 1965.
In the UK, the process of assessing the needs of the people of an area and then designing and securing an appropriate public service to meet those needs, is often called commissioning.
He also served on the Supervisory Board of Educational Testing Service (Princeton) from 2002 to 2014 and to several Dutch firms from 1981 to 1989 (before becoming a Minister).
List See also List of countries by employment rate List of countries by government spending as percentage of GDP List of countries by labour force Public sector == References ==
In the diagram, there is overproduction at QMarket - Qoptimum with an associated deadweight loss of the shaded triangle.
Consequently, many traditional public policy schools had to adjust their curricula to suit this new policy landscape, as well as develop entirely new curricula altogether.
The sectors of the economy which lead initially begin to level off, while other sectors begin to take off.
In August 1973 Witteveen was nominated as the next Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), he resigned as a Member of the Senate the same day he was installed as Managing Director, serving from 1 September 1973 until 18 June 1978.
Guffey, chief of petroleum section Commander John Milton Hancock, Navy member of the price fixing committee Charles P.
Many countries in Africa and South America have exhibited the qualities of a sub-imperial or semi-industrial power.
The National Resource Center (NRC) program of the United States Department of Education provides funding grants to American universities to establish, strengthen, and operate language and area or international studies centers that will be national resources for teaching any modern foreign language.
SEBI’s investor guidance on the primary market also identifies underwriters as registered intermediaries involved in public issues and notes that offer documents disclose details of underwriting arrangements.
Diamantaras, Dimitrios (2009), A Toolbox for Economic Design, New York: Palgrave Macmillan, ISBN 978-0-230-61060-6.
A contemporary, Quentin Skinner, has suggested that Mirrlees was a member of the Cambridge Apostles along with fellow Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen during the period.
Agreeable subset is another problem in which agents with different preferences have to choose together a subset that would serve all of them together.
After the Commission on Canadian Studies ended its work, Professor Symons transmitted its copious fonds to the archives of Trent University Library where they now occupy some 19 metres of shelf space in 73 boxes (see the list of Archival Sources below).
In the aftermath of March 1951, the economic crisis worsened and Iranian oil was not bought by other countries.
Description The bargaining model of war is a means of describing war as a political rather than economic or social action.
Many church bazaars held "white elephant sales" where donors could unload unwanted bric-à-brac, generating profit from the phenomenon that "one man's trash is another man's treasure" and the term has continued to be used in this context.
He left Harvard for the University of Pennsylvania in 1990, where he worked as an assistant professor of economics until 1993 and assistant professor of public policy until 1997.
The measures undertaken included the "persuasion" of certain Greek debt-holders to accept large haircuts under a supposedly “voluntary PSI" agreement.
In fiscal year 2004, Wyoming was guaranteed to receive at least $15 million, California $133 million.
It also presents the theory of comparative advantage, the theory that free trade between two or more countries can be mutually beneficial, even when one country has an absolute advantage over the other countries in all areas of production.
In the former Eastern Bloc countries, the public sector in 1989 accounted for between 70% and over 90% of total employment.
In politics Voting Scholars estimate that, even in a battleground state, there is only a one in ten million chance that one vote could sway the outcome of a United States presidential election.
With performance evaluations, an assessment is made of how the execution has progressed compared to plans and similar implementations.
Since the 1990s, "new fiscal sociology" has analysed the foundational role of taxation as a cause, and not just an effect, of the emergence of modernity.
On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation (19 April 1817) is a book by David Ricardo on economics.
FSR is funded by financial allocations from the state and falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance.
In January 1976, the government pledged to restore the illegally occupied land to its owners, and in 1977, it promulgated the Land Reform Review Law.
According to a 2013 Center for American Progress, from 2008 through 2013, categorical grant funding decreased for 29 out of 50 states as did block grants.
(1858–1942), member of chemical division Arch Wilkinson Shaw, head of conservation division Edward Stettinius Sr., partner in J.P.
Producers who opposed state interference or were confident in their abilities could continue to work in their properties, albeit under a higher export duty.
Cost in the system are classified as a credence-costs as the buyer cannot tell the quantity bought even after buying them.
The Culture Recovery Fund is a grants programme issued by the UK Government as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
His book Heterodox International Political Economics, offers a number of different perspectives on understanding the global economy of the 21st century.
Indivisibility of a good: if actors believe that a certain good could not be divided but only controlled in its entirety they may go to war.
Grass roots private welfare: winning essays of the 1956 national competition of the Foundation for voluntary Welfare, New York University Press, New York 1957.
History Thomas Sargent and Neil Wallace wrote a 1981 paper arguing that unsustainable deficits eventually lead to the government having to print money to cover its debts leading to inflation that even higher interest rates would not be able to fix.
Just over the two decades before his provision in 1965, scholars started to extend the theoretical framework and communal or collective ownership-consumption arrangements were considered as well.
He was elected fellow of the Econometric Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2004 and 2017, respectively.
In economics, economic rent is any payment to the owner of a factor of production in excess of the costs needed to bring that factor into production.
Of China's sovereign funds, only the Silk Road Fund was capitalized with an explicit geo-economic mission (in the Silk Road Fund's case, supporting the BRI).
A government can provide information to its citizens on a particular issue, with hopes it affects their behaviour (Inform), or by appealing to their morality as a human or as a stakeholder in society (Implore).
86, however, introduced the so-called mandatory amendments, which must be complied with by the Executive up to a percentage ceiling established by the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO).
Vastly more funding is spent on natural science studies of climate change and considerable sums are also spent on studies of the impact of and adaptation to climate change.
In a World Bank blog post, its international importance for disaster risk management is described as: Digital public goods have the potential to transform the way disaster risk is managed while supporting innovation and collaboration globally.
The discussion on system governance addresses the so-called "control gap" in an interdependent world economy, where state capabilities may no longer match the scale of global challenges.
On 22 July 1952, the ICJ decided that it had no jurisdiction in this matter (Iran's original contention).
Thus, Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring implemented restrictions on the local population to prevent the Altreich and the army from falling short of food supplies.
See also Crony capitalism Political capital State capitalism Revolving door (politics) == References ==
For example, in road infrastructure, vehicles that are more fuel-efficient or fully electric contribute less to fuel tax revenues, which traditionally fund road maintenance.
(Hons) in Economics from UNISA, She then proceeded to the University of Cape Town where she obtained a Ph.D.
Steve Mannheimer, art & architecture critic for the Indianapolis Star and professor at Herron School of Art and Design wrote: "Visitors to Dow Gardens lose the smells and the sounds of the Midwest – burgers, fries and traffic - to find a vision of nature perfected.
According to this principle, one third of the total military forces involved should be available for operations, one third should be preparing for operations, and the final third, having been on operations, should be recuperating.
Historical precedents and legislative proposals In the more general category of hypothecation, there are already well-established precedents: they include the gasoline tax in the United States, which is dedicated to the funding of transportation infrastructure.
Some routes were closed during the 1950s to take account of changing transport patterns and to remove obvious route duplication.
— a discussion of the desired features of public–private dialogue mechanisms See also Forward Commitment Procurement Public-private partnership
Therefore, according to the IMF, the typically expected credit event was not officially triggered, the negative contingencies to private holders of state debt were increased, while the credibility of the sovereign-CDS market was undermined.
Congress passed this amendment on July 11, 1971, by a unanimous vote, and based on it, on July 16, 1971 law 17.450 was promulgated, and became effective immediately.
It returns as output a "mixture" - a vector p of real numbers in [0,1], one number for each candidate, such that the sum of numbers is 1.
Evolutionary theories Biological and evolutionary approaches provide useful complementary insights into decision-making in social dilemmas.
Career Ingrid was previously the Chair of the Employment Conditions Commission which makes sectoral recommendations in sectors in which collective bargaining is weak (e.g.
Media Media transparency is the concept of determining how and why information is conveyed through various means.
The most important thing is the activities of private industries and citizens will be interfered by government regulation.
The mandatory nature of some DPI systems, where refusal results in exclusion from essential services, raises questions about whether consent can be freely given when the alternative is denial of food rations, banking, or healthcare.
It satisfies strong SD-strategyproofness, strong SD-participation, and population consistency, but not any form of efficiency, or any other consistency.
Jin Zeng estimates the numbers were 56.4% in 1995 and 32.8% in 2003, while other estimates are higher.
Thus, the state assumes that the family covers certain services (such as childcare or care for the elderly), which in other models would be covered by the state.
Definitions Mathematically, social marginal cost is the sum of private marginal cost and the external costs.
Likewise, the socialist planned economies of the former Soviet Union and Eastern bloc featured very little income redistribution because private capital and land income were restricted as most enterprises were state ownership and wage rates were set by central planners.
She consults regularly for various South African government departments and international organizations such as the World Bank, the ILO and the OECD.
In economics, these indirect costs which lead to inefficiencies in the market and result in a difference between the private costs and the social costs are called externalities.
The problematic perception of climate change as simply a "global" issue: Climate change initiatives and governance approaches have tended to be driven from a global scale.
Mosaddegh had sought to audit the documents of AIOC, in order to verify that AIOC was paying the contracted royalties to Iran, and to limit the company's control over Iranian oil reserves.
The Journal of Political Economy is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the University of Chicago Press.
She advised the South African Minister of Labour on working conditions and minimum wages from 2008 to 2014.
This force structure ensures that they will always have at least one ballistic missile boat on patrol at any one time.
$5 million grant to Michigan Technological University to renovate their Chemical Sciences and Engineering Building.
From the rapporteur: proposed by the budget rapporteur, generally to meet interests negotiated between Congress and the federal government.
Since 2002, the Department of Homeland Security has provided Port Security Grants to ports within the United States, to build fireboats.
Hollis Godfrey, civil engineer (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), president of the Drexel Institute; and Julius Rosenwald (Chicago, Illinois), president of Sears, Roebuck & Co.
Government Construction Contracting Agency (FSR) (Icelandic: Framkvæmdasýsla ríkisins) is an independent government agency responsible for managing public works in Iceland on behalf of the government.
He was granted tenure and associate professorship in 1997 but left for his current position at Cornell University the following year.
The phrase is sometimes related to the term class warfare, where the redistribution is alleged to counteract harm caused by high-income earners and the wealthy through means such as unfairness and discrimination.
These amendments are more controversial, due to their lack of transparency and their connection to the so-called "secret budget".
He left the World Bank to become president of Maastricht University in February 2003 until February 2011.
They also take the form of written rules and regulations of city government departments: the police, fire, street repair, or building inspection.
The firm supports science-driven companies moving with urgency throughout their entire life cycle, from seed to scale.
In response to this recommendation, the Governments of Norway and Sierra Leone, UNICEF and iSPIRT formally initiated the Digital Public Goods Alliance in late 2019 as a follow-up to the High-level Panel.
Technology In the computer software world, open source software concerns the creation of software, to which access to the underlying source code is freely available.
The idea of government failure is associated with the policy argument that, even if particular markets may not meet the standard conditions of perfect competition required to ensure social optimality, government intervention may make matters worse rather than better.
The firm was founded out of Breakout Labs, a program of the Thiel Foundation (a philanthropic organization created by Peter Thiel).
The nitrate producers, who wanted to keep control over production volume and costs, favored a new tax on exports depending on the international price.
Previously, the term used to broadly denote any kind of private-sector participation in an existing government program, such as, for example, family planning, or health care.
Civil engineers address these fundamental economic problems using specialized engineering economics knowledge as a framework for continuously "...
In the investment banking sector, particularly in India, devolvement is a process whereby if an investment issue is undersubscribed, an underwriter is required to subscribe to the remaining shares.
JPE Micro and JPE Macro In 2023, University of Chicago Press announced the establishment of Journal of Political Economy Microeconomics (JPE Micro) and Journal of Political Economy Macroeconomics (JPE Macro), two new journals that are vertically integrated with the Journal of Political Economy.
Buchanan developed club theory (the study of club goods in economics) in his 1965 paper, "An Economic Theory of Clubs".
Critics also say that because block grants are decentralized, it is more challenging to "measure block grant performance and to hold state and local government officials accountable for their decisions".
Enforcement mechanisms co-determine natural resource governance outcomes and pollution-related policies may require proper enforcement mechanisms (and often substitutes) to have a positive effect.
This list of countries by Global Militarization Index is based on the 2022 Global Militarization Index of the Bonn International Center for Conversion.
In 2021, Breakout Labs formerly closed, having provided 50 science focused grants in the program’s 10 year span.
Political economists are interested in capitalism as it is shapes production and distribution, and reveals power relations embedded in society.
Specific mechanisms implementing its control of the commanding heights in these areas include public property rights, pervasive administrative involvement, and Communist Party supervision of senior managers.
Law and Language on The Making of Tax Laws and Words and context – with Legal Semiotics: Fourth edition.
Another problem that Rostow's work has is that it considers mostly large countries: countries with a large population (Japan), with natural resources available at just the right time in its history (Coal in Northern European countries), or with a large land mass (Argentina).
Despite its relatively brief existence, the WIB was a major step in the development of national planning and government-business cooperation in the United States, and its precedents —like the National Recovery Administration— were influential during the New Deal and World War II.
If subset W is chosen, then each agent i enjoys a utility of Vi(W); this formalizes the fact that W - once chosen - is a public good.
It oversees a number of sovereign funds that invest part of China's foreign exchange reserves in investment vehicles including infrastructure projects, real estate, private equity, and strategic resources.
Dimension manipulation can either expand a decision-making space by reconfiguring acceptable topics of debate and policy alternatives, or shrink dimensions by eliminating certain topics or alternatives.
Stephen Thomas Redvers Coate is a British-American economist and currently Kiplinger Professor of Public Policy at Cornell University.
A further announcement was made on 17 October 2020 of an additional £76 million between a further 588 organisations.
This counterintuitive insight—that the initial imposition of legal entitlement is irrelevant because the parties will eventually reach the same result—is Coase's invariance thesis.
Training and education in municipal treasury APTUSC has technical and professional committees that deal with issues facing treasurers, their agencies and the public.
Cohen then identifies three central themes that have formed the basis for theoretical development in the field: systemic transformation, system governance, and the role of the state.
In the United States, long term capital gains (generally assets held more than 12 months) are taxed at the rate of 15%.
It is defined as a "guide for the economic selection among technically feasible alternatives for the purpose of a rational allocation of scarce resources." Its goal is to guide entities, private or public, that are confronted with the fundamental problem of economics.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India publishes guidelines and a recommended method of computation relating to the extent of the devolvement onto a particular underwriter in the case where there are multiple underwriters, or sub-underwriters.
Witteveen was elected as a Member of the House of Representatives after the election of 1963, he subsequently resigned as a Member of the Senate the same day he was installed as Member of the House of Representatives, taking office on 5 June 1963.
Accessed at [3] and revised through six editions with the last published in 1914 by Wellington's wife, Agnes Wellington.
The chapter on the state investigates its conceptual place in IPE, contrasting American state-centric approaches with the British school's broader institutional and social frameworks.
Principles of tax design, public policy and beyond: The ideas of James Mirrlees, 1936–2018 References External links James A.
This code also informs the public at large as to how the Association approaches matters involving ethics.
Since FOSS applications can be customized, users can add local language interfaces (localization), thereby expanding the availability of the software to more users in different regions and societies where those languages are spoken.
As a field, it seeks to explore the relationship that taxation constitutes between citizens and the state, including the cultural and historical factors that determine compliance with taxation.
Public workers tend to have lower wages when adjusting for education, although that difference is reduced when benefits and hours are included.
Anderson, special counsel on international affairs George Newell Armsby, member of the priorities committee Lewis R.
On 10 May 1940 Nazi Germany invaded the Netherlands and the government fled to London to escape the German occupation.
Zoltán Pogátsa (Hungarian: [ˈzoltaːn ˈpoɡaːt͡ʃɒ]; born 1974) is a Hungarian political economist and lecturer at the University of West Hungary, focusing on the economics of European integration.
A member shall uphold the letter and spirit of the law and report violations of the law to the appropriate authorities.
But if he puts more cattle on a common, the food which they consume forms a deduction which is shared between all the cattle, as well that of others as his own, in proportion to their number, and only a small part of it is taken from his own cattle".
These goods are generally free cultural works that are intended to contribute to sustainable national and international digital development.
Although this could seem as a form of industrial policy, PPD emphasize local ownership and leadership, encourage firms to cooperate and identify areas for sector development.
Background In October 2005, the National Academies of Science released a report that revealed how U.S.
The Canadian social safety net covers a broad spectrum of programs, and because Canada is a federation, many are run by the provinces.
At the same time, Greek sovereign bonds held by the ECB and other EU central banks as a result of the SMP Programme (and ANFAs operations) were excluded from the PSI step through a secretly agreed swap agreement between the ECB and the Hellenic Republic in February 2012.
Borrowing was particularly high in the housing market and deregulation in the financial sector made it possible to extend lending in sub-prime mortgages.
In real terms, a government can also inflate away the debt: if it causes or allows high inflation, the real amount it must repay will be smaller.
In labor economics The generalization of the concept of rent to include opportunity cost has highlighted the role of political barriers in creating and privatizing rents.
He has published six books and numerous professional and media articles, and is a regular commentator in Hungarian and international media on issues related to European integration and economic development.
British Rail also started development of the world's first tilting train – the Advanced Passenger Train (APT).
This caveat was however neglected, and the army was fed and paid entirely by contributions and war loot.
The fund aims to financially support cultural organisations in England (such as theatres, museums, and music venues) which had become financially unviable as a result of national and local restrictions.
See also California Municipal Treasurers Association (CMTA) GASB Public Finance State Government State Treasurer United States Department of the Treasury References External links California Municipal Treasurers Association Association of Public Treasurers of the United States and Canada
The whole spectrum would cover purely private activities on one side and purely public or collectivized activities on the other side.
If a conscientious objector who had been unwilling to pay taxes started to pay into a "peace tax fund", this would only mean more money for the government to spend, and the likely result of that is more money for the military.
By the 2020s, thinkers and policymakers began explicitly using the infrastructure analogy, framing online services as critical infrastructure that should be broadly accessible, akin to public roads.
Political capitalism or Politically oriented capitalism is a concept introduced by Max Weber in his 1921 book Economy and Society to describe monetary profit-making through non-market means.
Regulation: Policies or laws which are offered by the government to control every activity, especially in the market and trading flow.
See also Scorched earth, a strategy designed to counter bellum se ipsum alet Notes Sources References === Bibliography ===
The expressions "white elephant" and "gift of a white elephant" came into common use in the middle of the nineteenth century.
Necessity Consider a setting in which all agents have a type-contingent utility function u ( x , t , θ ) {\displaystyle u(x,t,\theta )} .
Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in EBSCO, ProQuest, EconLit, Research Papers in Economics, Current Contents/Social & Behavioral Sciences, and the Social Sciences Citation Index.
Tax cuts and deficit spending, he argues, make the cost of government appear to be cheaper than it otherwise would be.
The nationalization of the Iranian oil industry (Persian: نهضت ملی شدن صنعت نفت ایران) resulted from a movement in the Iranian parliament (Majlis) to seize control of Iran's oil industry, which had been run by private companies, largely controlled by foreign interests.
Description One person, called the "principal", would like to condition his behavior on information privately known to the players of a game.
Notable papers Among the most influential papers that appeared in the Journal of Political Economy are: "The Economics of Exhaustible Resources", by Harold Hotelling; Vol.
Here renters, who do not pay local property taxes directly, may vote for an expansion of local government services.
Structure FSR operates under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, which is responsible for public works in Iceland.
Although Symons and Page observe that university administrators had not adopted these reasonable employment practices, the third volume of their Report, like the first two, includes little discussion of this matter.
The three major forms of unearned income based on property ownership are rent, received from the ownership of natural resources; interest, received by virtue of owning financial assets; and profit, received from the ownership of capital equipment.
Participation - abstaining from participation does not lead to a mixture that is better for the voter.
communistic societies, but seems to innately recognize that modernization can be achieved in different ways in different types of economies.
Example countries Countries which have been described as practising economic conscription include the United States and the United Kingdom.
Ingrid Woolard is a Professor of Economics and Executive Dean of the University of Sussex Business School.
As an example, the report cited that out of the 120 chemical plants built around the world worth $1 billion or more, one was constructed in the United States but 50 were in China.
Martin (Chicago, Illinois), a distinguished surgeon who founded the American College of Surgeons; Howard E.
PPD is a platform for interaction between state and private sector, and is hence an organization (which can be very informal or very institutionalized).
The Büttner extraction method was boldly marketed claiming to be the world's best moka and coffee filter ("Der beste Mokka- und Kaffeefilter der Welt").
In 2006, Jura inaugurated the visitor's centre "JURAworld of Coffee" at the Niederbuchsiten headquarters.
Overview The jebena is most commonly used in the coffee ceremony of Ethiopia and Eritrea, where women serve coffee to their guests in small clay or ceramic pots.
The result is a coffee concentrate that is diluted with water or milk, and is sometimes served hot, but often served chilled, over ice, or blended with ice and other ingredients such as chocolate.
For immersion brewing methods, such as French press and vacuum brewing, extraction takes place slowly.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
History The company was founded by Italian businessman Sergio Zappella and Swiss inventor Arthur Schmed in 1981 as Sergio, Arthur e Compagnia.
Individuals using powdered non-dairy creamer in the ordinary amounts used in a cup of coffee do not face a risk of dust explosion.
Coffee consumption continued, with underground societies known as "coffee guilds" forming during prohibition periods.
The final round comprises the top scoring six baristas from the semi-finals round and takes place on the last day of the competition.
See also Coffee service Easy Serving Espresso Pod Caffitaly K-Cup T-Discs Melitta Senseo References External links Flavia official Canadian and Mexican site Flavia official United States site
The company initially focussed on ironing products, before expanding into coffee equipment with a focus on semi-automatic espresso machines, starting in 2002, under the management of the couple's four sons, Emanuele, Giorgio, Marco, and Mauro Epis; the latter is the current CEO of Lelit.
Her past medical expenses were $10,500; her anticipated future medical expenses were approximately $2,500; and her daughter's loss of income was approximately $5,000 for a total of approximately $18,000.
Gaseous emissions from roasting operations are typically ducted to a thermal oxidiser or thermal catalytic oxidiser following PM removal by a cyclone.
The word originates from Arabic: طاس, romanized: ṭās, from the Persian: طاس, romanized: ṭās, meaning cup or bowl.
Unlike the cold press (which functions similar to a French Press) which takes eight to twenty-four hours, a Cold Drip process only takes about two hours, with taste and consistency results similar to that of a cold press.
In operation, a sharp-pointed spout pierces the capsule and injects pressurised hot water, forcing the foil against a spiked plate which burst it inwards, letting the espresso flow out of the spout.
This detaches the gelatin cover, with the printed image, from the paper; this cover is then transferred to the mug.
Faema was to become synonymous with the post-war production boom in Italy, by actively pursuing technological innovation as the company's driving force.
This transfer of stock ownership resulted in the creation of a new business unit combining La Marzocco and Swiss super-automatic espresso machine manufacturer Eversys, which had been acquired by De'Longhi SpA in a process that started in 2017.
History and variants The principle of brewing coffee by using steam to force heated water through a bed of roasted, ground beans dates back to at least 1818, according to a patent published by Elard Römershausen for a very large machine.
This makes it useful for using grinds that wouldn't be optimal in the official method such as coarse grinds that might be used in a French press.
FAEMA (Italian acronym: Fabbrica Apparecchiature Elettromeccaniche e Affini) primarily engaged in the production of espresso machines, was founded in 1945 by Carlo Ernesto Valente, in Milan, Italy.
They are typically ceramic and accompanied by matching saucers, but some coffeehouses and china companies also produce brightly decorated varieties.
In 1974, Breville released the toasted sandwich maker, making the Breville brand a household name in Australia.
As the cold brew is poured into a cup, it is charged with nitrogen to give it a rich, creamy head of foam, similar to draft beer.
A dallah is typically richly ornamented, usually engraved with geometric patterns, stylized plants and flowers, love scenes from Persian Gulfic poetry, or set with other decorations, including semi-precious gemstones and ivory.
Coffee Joulies are small, stainless-steel capsules containing a phase-change material; the capsules were designed to be placed in a cup of coffee in order to cool coffee that is too hot then slowly release the heat to keep the coffee warm.
The tea- and coffeepots are small (one pint in a service for two, so called tête-à-tête, half a pint in a solitaire service for one), the cups and saucers are frequently also smaller than the ones in the regular sets.
The filter pot featured a through-glazed porcelain filter with triangularly-arranged slits with some air space below.
Fortune telling In divination and fortune-telling, the patterns of coffee grounds are used for predictions.
Typically, ristretto is half the volume of normale, and lungo is double to triple the normale volume.
Espresso brew pitchers are particularly used for layered latte macchiatos, which require careful pouring.
An Americano only differs from an espresso in strength – it is traditionally diluted after brewing to a strength below 1.5% (also resulting in the removal of crema).
Keurig needed sizeable venture capital; and after pitching to numerous potential investors, the partners finally obtained $50,000 from Minneapolis-based investor Food Fund in 1994, and later the Cambridge-based fund MDT Advisers contributed $1,000,000.
Construction The early tongs were scissor-like, occasionally in fancy shapes like storks with long beaks or puppets grabbing the sugar with their hands.
The Porzellanfabrik Friesland, founded in 1953 as part of the German Melitta group, and independent since 1991/1995, produced Melitta porcelain filters up to 2018.
The VertuoLine system was intended to expand Nespresso's product line to offer coffee closer to the American style of filtered coffee, and thus expand Nespresso's market share in North America.
At any point along the diagonal line plotted on the chart, extraction and strength are directly proportional.
It may have originated in 2013 at the craft coffee houses Cuvee Coffee in Austin, Texas, and Stumptown in Portland, Oregon.
Hot water is poured from a kettle or anything that can boil the water until the lower edge of the bag gets in contact with the surface of the coffee.
The coffee capsules consist of a plastic cylinder containing up to 7.5 grams (0.26 oz) of ground coffee that is vacuum-pressed and sealed by an aluminum cap.
Other decorations consist of painting the outside with different, bright, colours or traditional dot paintings.
Coffee-mate is a lactose-free coffee creamer manufactured by Nestlé, available in powdered, liquid and concentrated liquid forms.
The addition of sugar during the torrefacto roasting process increases the production of compounds with antioxidant properties.
Vitaperk LLC, often stylized VitaPerk, is a Michigan based, domestic limited liability company that produces and sells nutraceuticals and dietary supplements in the form of a fortified, non-dairy coffee additive.
By late 2023, De'Longhi S.p.A had purchased the majority of its parent company's shares in La Marzocco.
The thicker filter papers may also assist in removing more cafestol, a cholesterol-elevating compound found in coffee.
It was named after its manufacturer, Gottlob Widmann, although some early machines were delivered as "FK-1" (for filter coffee machine).
The heat source can be supplied by natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), electricity, or even wood.
In Cairo, Egypt, a similar ban was instituted in 1532, and the coffeehouses and warehouses containing coffee beans were sacked.
It also offers Lungo, medium roast capsules that produce a longer (higher proportion of water) espresso, and the Monoarabica line, single-origin Arabica beans from six countries: Brazil, Guatemala, Ethiopia, Colombia, Costa Rica, and India.
A jury found McDonald's liable for injuries suffered by a customer who spilled hot cup of coffee on herself, and awarded her in excess of $2.8 million ($6.1 million in 2025).
1900), the Kaffeeaufgußkanne Max Thürmer (1900), the Büttner-Kaffeemaschine (1926), the Melitta 401/402 (1930s) filter holders, the Morena Kaffeefilter (c.
The company employs over 450 people in offices in Europe and the United States, and has authorized dealers in over 100 countries worldwide.
The mug is then fired around 700–750 °C (1,290–1,380 °F; 970–1,020 K), which softens the top surface of the glaze, thereby embedding the image into it.
The sublimation point of caffeine is 352 °F (178 °C), about one hundred degrees lower than the typical very dark roast.
Patent disputes A European patent application with the aim "to protect an assembly of pad holder and pad", i.e.
Heat transfer through the bottom of the cup is small relative to heat lost through the top of the cup.
Bunn is the American distributor of the Tiger Super Automatic Espresso Machine, made by Thermoplan AG.
As Dickie is pulling a shot in extreme close-up, he remarks, "Now you’ll find out why Miss Sherwood always shows up for breakfast, Tom.
Walküre recommended to use coffea arabica, and either 16 g for the first two cups and 6 g for each further cup, or 8–10 g per cup in general.
Cow creamers Creamers in the shape of a cow with an opening or lid on its back for filling, known as cow creamers, originated in Holland, but became very popular in England, first with Dutch imports, then from about 1740 in saltglaze stoneware from the Staffordshire Potteries.
as the "midnight dust" characters threw into a campfire to make an explosive puff of smoke and sparks as they introduced the episode's story.
Spa, https://www.espressomadeinitaly.com/en/history-gallery-upside-down-percolation.php External links The Coffee FAQ brewing techniques: Neapolitan The Neapolitan Coffee Maker (2023-12-21) by James Hoffmann [15:34]
The Bell Beaker culture, is an important archaeological culture named after the distinctive inverted-bell pottery beaker cups it used, marking the beginning of the European Bronze Age from around 2800 BC.
In the early 1990s additional production facilities were established in Switzerland, and in 1994 their first fully automatic coffee machine was launched.
The company was founded by Dave Petrillo and Dave Jackson, mechanical engineers from Pennington, New Jersey.
With over 600,000 vending machines in operation worldwide it was considered one of the largest companies in the industry.
O'Neal's nephew, Herschel Duncan, developed the blend for the Maryland Club, which became one of the better known brands of the time and formed the Duncan Coffee Company.
The team decided to continue with production in the United States, rather than moving to Mexico, as was their initial plan.
The Fondazione Palazzo Coronini Cronberg Foundation of Gorizia has a Venetian sugar bowl of the Napoleonic period.
tea or coffee), cooling rate in a cup is typically dominated by evaporation, which occurs across the free surface in contact with the air.
In other drinks, an espresso cup or shot glass is a common alternative, which must be dumped rather than poured.
In 2008 Gaillard launched a company that sold biodegradable capsules for Nespresso machines, competing with Nespresso.
La Pavoni had a technological and functional appeal but, as a small steam engine, also had a nostalgic charm.
The word Nespresso is a portmanteau of "Nestlé" and "Espresso", a naming technique used by other Nestlé brands such as (Nescafé, BabyNes, Nesquik).
Especially in East Asia disposable single serve drip coffee bags are common way to prepare drip coffee.
A sugar bowl is a small bowl designed for holding sugar or sugar cubes, to be served with tea or coffee in the Western tradition, that is an integral part of a tea set.
More recent units can store fresh milk in a separate internal container, instead of relying on powder.
See also Bialetti De'Longhi FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Rancilio Saeco References External links Official website The Benefits of an E61 Group Head
Torrefacto refers to a particular process of roasting coffee beans, common in Spain, Paraguay, Portugal, Mexico, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Uruguay and Argentina.
Brewing coffee Coffee is brewed by first folding the paper filter into shape by using the folded side with a printed number 3, where the pour spout is located and placing it into the neck of the flask.
A variation, coffee bags, were developed to provide the convenience of instant coffee but maintain the flavor of brewed coffee.
sugar bows with highly decorative handles appear in 1750s (Shlosberg says the displacement started in the early 1770s) for a short time; sugar tongs with more plain designs appeared in the 18th century and gradually evolved into "bold, bad design" of the 19th century.
VitaPerk's powdered supplement formula contains 15 vitamins and minerals: History The concept for VitaPerk's powdered coffee supplement began in January 2010 as an attempted convergence of the coffee and nutritional supplement industries.
FLAVIA markets several different machines, such as large coin-operated machines and small portable machines designed for home use.
The hot water hits the underside of the lid, and flows out and over the inner lid of the coffee basket.
This gradually expanded, helped by the popularity of American-style bars which permitted coffee served standing rather than sitting, and by World War I, when young Italian men who were given coffee as rations took up a daily habit.
Ingredients To replicate the mouthfeel of milk fats, nondairy creamers often contain hydrogenated vegetable oils, although nonfat nondairy creamers/whiteners also exist.
The benefit of the pre-packed coffee filter rings was two-fold: First, because the amount of coffee contained in the rings was pre-measured, it negated the need to measure each scoop and then place it in the metal percolator basket.
The advisability, however, of consuming instant coffee mixed with non-dairy creamer and sugar daily is slowly coming into question, with some manufacturers now taking the sugar out of the mixture, and marketing the 2-in-1 mixture as sugar-free white coffee.
Bunn also provides specialty foods for order or pick-up at Pease's Stores, including steaks, soups, and snacks.
It is commonly used in the coffee tradition of the Arabian Peninsula and of the Bedouins, and to a lesser extend in the Levant and North Africa.
In some markets, Tassimo has entered into partnerships with third parties to market T-Discs from non-Kraft and non-JDE brands.
Producers of the coffee beans argue that the process may improve coffee through two mechanisms: selection, where civets choose to eat only certain cherries; and digestion, where biological or chemical mechanisms in the animals' digestive tracts alter the composition of the coffee cherries.
History The napoletana was invented in 1819 by Jean-Louis Morize, a tinsmith and lampmaker from Paris, France.
Ownership Maas is majority owned by the Miko Group, a Belgian stock exchange listed specialist in coffee service.
Coffee cup sleeves, also known as coffee sleeves, are roughly cylindrical sleeves that fit tightly over handle-less paper coffee cups to insulate the drinker's hands from hot coffee.
Melitta continued to develop new techniques to improve the shape, performance, material and production process of its filter systems.
They have acted as the main or sole sponsor of numerous cycling teams for many years, but also as co-sponsor.
By 1919, he had established his own metal and machine workshop in Crusinallo (in his native Piedmont) to make aluminium products: this was the foundation of the Bialetti company.
In addition, the espresso method of extraction yielded higher antioxidant activity than other brewing methods.
The coffee sleeve was invented in 1991 by Jay Sorensen and patented in 1995 (under the trademarked name Java Jacket), and are now commonly utilized by coffee houses and other vendors that sell hot beverages dispensed in disposable paper cups.
Lance Hedrick, conversely, described the Lelit Mara X as the 'best value heat-exchanger' machine in April 2023, and called the Lelit Elizabeth as the 'best value dual-boiler' espresso machine in May 2025, introducing the Elizabeth as "one of the best kept secrets" in espresso.
Caffeine is extracted early in the brewing process, so longer extraction does not result in significantly more caffeinated coffee.
Notable sugar bowls Gustav IV Adolf of Sweden presented a pair of silver sugar bowls to Johan Sederholm, his godfather, in 1796.
This means that an extraction yield of 20% can be obtained by brewing 18 grams of coffee, resulting a 36-gram final beverage with a t {\displaystyle t} of 10%.
In the 1930s, Melitta revised the original filter, tapering it into the shape of a cone and adding ribs.
Variations In Bulgaria, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Czechia, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, Slovakia and Slovenia, the cezve is a long-necked coffee pot.
A dallah (Arabic: دَلَّة), also known as bakraj (Arabic: بَكْرَج), is a traditional Arabic coffee pot used for centuries to brew and serve qahwa, a spicy, bitter coffee traditionally served during feasts like Eid al-Fitr and made through a multi-step ritual.
In the US and UK, customers can provide their filled bags to the same postman who delivers their order of Nespresso capsules.
The company sells a coffee pod brewer system similar to Keurig K-Cups, and makes various home and domestic coffee makers under the Speed Brew and Heat N' Brew families.
See also De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Lelit Rancilio Saeco List of Italian companies References External links Official website Bialetti NZ
In the 1970s many machines followed the principle of drip coffee, but the Wigomat remained a competitor: "The people at Zabar's tell us that their Wigomat Coffee Maker is one of the best of the currently popular instant-drip coffee makers" wrote a New York-based magazine in 1975.
See also Adhesion Coandă effect Spout (teapot) Stall (fluid dynamics) References Further reading "Tropfenfangrinne an der Innenseite der Ausgussschnauze von Gefaessen, insbesondere Kannen fuer Kaffee, Tee usw." (in German).
European porcelain manufacturers encouraged the development of different sizes of cup, and shapes of pot, for tea and coffee services.
In the first two cases, sheets of the material in question were softened in hot water and then clamped in a mold to create the required shape.
The cabaret services originated in France, where the tea drinking was not ritualized, and thus small-scale arrangements for one or two were appropriate.
The modern dallah is a more typically practical vessel, and even automatic dallahs and Thermos dallahs are available to the modern coffee drinker.
Application of an equal amount of horse manure at the same time as the coffee grounds has been shown to nearly eliminate negative effects of fresh used coffee grounds.
The company also manufactured Europiccolas that were branded and sold as the first Olympia Cremina home espresso machines.
The cabaret services characteristically utilized unusual designs and extensive decorations, this "jewel-like" appearance hints at marketing oriented towards ladies.
Usually stainless steel will be used for the inner wall while outer wall can be stainless steel, plastic, or even embedded with other materials.
Generally, the upper filter disc is retained on the bottom of the upper chamber by the rubber gasket, which acts as a flexible internal circlip; this filter disc prevents coffee grounds from moving up the spout of the upper chamber.
Adding water to a drink after brewing changes strength but not yield (yield is determined by the amount of water initially present during brewing).
By 2020, Starbucks offered the beverage at more than half of its locations across the United States, making it a staple menu item.
The exact nutritional values may vary depending on the roast level, brewing method, and whether additives such as sugar or milk are included.
It is considered a staple household object in Ethiopia, with decorations and designs being used to represent social status.
They also presented the jury with expert testimony that 190 °F (88 °C) coffee may produce third-degree burns (where skin grafting is necessary) in about three seconds and 180 °F (82 °C) coffee may produce such burns in about 12 to 15 seconds.
Techniques such as silk screen printing or decals are used to apply decorations such as logos or images and fan art, which are fired onto the mug to ensure permanence.
Six years later, in 1958, the Carnation Company developed a product that easily dissolved in hot liquid because it replaced most of the milk fat with vegetable oil, and reduced the milk protein.
See also Single-serve coffee container References External links A Modo Mio Lavazza: a casa come al bar
Many burr grinders, including almost all domestic versions, are unable to achieve the extremely fine grind required for the preparation of Greek coffee; traditional Greek hand grinders are an exception.
Not all brands are available in all markets (for example, Kraft-owned Nabob T-Discs are only available in Canada, while JDE-owned Kenco T-Discs are available in the British Isles).
Unlike newer capsules and pods, this system consists of a single-use drip coffee filter placed over the cup.
Bialetti is an Italian brand of coffee machines, cookware, and small kitchen appliances founded by Alfonso Bialetti.
Particulate matter emissions from the roasting and cooling operations are typically ducted to cyclones before being emitted to the atmosphere.
The family-owned company employs more than 3,000 individuals overall and had a revenue of 583 million Swiss francs in 2018.
In the late Georgian era piercing popularity had declined, and the tongs were made to match the contemporary spoon designs (for example, with the fiddle pattern).
It markets most of its product under the Sage brand in the UK and Europe, since the Breville brand is owned by the unrelated Newell Brands company in the UK.
Marketed since spring 1927 and up into, at least, the 1940s, these coffee makers were available as stand-alone devices for home use, but were also adopted by various other German coffee roasters (including Maschinenfabrik Bremen (Bremen, Germany), Georg Schrader & Co.
The saucer also provides a convenient place for a wet spoon, as might be used to stir the drink in the cup in order to mix sweeteners or creamers into tea or coffee.
Cortado is espresso with a small amount of very lightly foamed milk added, in contrast to a macchiato's more frothy texture.
Tea-mate A Tea-mate powdered variety for whitening tea was also introduced in the UK in a jar as well as in other countries in sachets or cartons.
This is the ISBN of the second edition (2020), however, the ISBN of the first edition (2013) appears to be the same.) Mani San Max, Isabelle.
In Australia, Woolworths and Gloria Jeans promote and make their own capsules exclusively for the system, with the latter also selling Gloria Jeans branded machines.
Ristretto is an espresso drink where the weight of the ground coffee is equal to the weight of the brewed shots a 1:1 ratio.
Wooden zarfs, of which very few remain, were favored because of the natural aroma of the wood from which they were fashioned.
Geschichte und Geschichten um Melitta - geröstet, gemahlen und gefiltert - zum 50jährigen Bestehen der Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden [History and stories around Melitta - roasted, grinded and filtered - at the 50th anniversary of Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden] (in German) (1 ed.).
In 2017, Philips sold the Saeco Professional division (also with the Gaggia brand) to N&W Global Vending SpA, an Italian Bergamo based company leader in vending machines for drinks and snacks, born in 2000 from the integration of Necta and Wittenberg and controlled by a US fund, Lone Star.
Design and qualification Through the safety process, NASA verified that the hardware would meet the necessary requirements and it has certified the system for the flight on the ISS.
Bravilor Bonamat is a Dutch manufacturer of commercial and office-grade coffee machines, espresso machines and hot water dispensers, founded in Amsterdam by A.J.M.
The espresso machines are produced by Eugster/Frismag in Romanshorn, which also manufactures machines for other brands such as Siemens, Bosch and AEG.
Bunn, who designed his own versions of paper coffee filters, that had a flat bottom and fluted sides and pour-over drip coffee brewers.
Melitta USA's coffee filters are manufactured in Clearwater, Florida, and the company has a coffee roasting operation in Cherry Hill, New Jersey.
The Caffitaly System (known in some markets as the Caffita System) is a capsule system for making espresso and other coffee drinks in home espresso machines.
Arabic coffee, known in Arabic as qahwa (Arabic: قهوة), is a loosely defined family of brewed coffee of Coffea arabica beans.
The machine combined a method similar to a French press with a vacuum mechanism that separated the liquid from the grounds.
tagline 2010 Mars Drinks acquires the Alterra Coffee Roasters brand from Colectivo Coffee Roasters and launched The Bright Tea Company 2018 Lavazza North America buys Flavia including The Bright Tea Company and Alterra Coffee Roasters from Mars.
While in the Middle Ages a saucer was used for serving condiments and sauces, currently the term is used to denote a small plate that supports a cup – usually one used to serve coffee or tea - or a pot - usually for a plant.
In 2021, Gloucestershire-based football club Forest Green Rovers trialed a kit made from 35% used coffee grounds combined with recycled plastic.
Jura, registered as Jura Elektroapparate AG is a Swiss developer and distributor of home appliances, mainly espresso machines, headquartered in Niederbuchsiten, Canton of Solothurn.
The new product was marketed under the Carnation label with the brand name Coffee-Mate and released in 1961, shortly after the commercial introduction of Rich Products' CoffeeRich.
This saw the boycott of sugar between 1792-1793 and 1825-1829 as a way to force parliament to halt the trafficking of enslaved people.
Like similar proprietary coffee-making systems, Caffitaly can be seen as an example of the razor and blades business model, in which the relatively low price of the coffeemaker is recouped through a higher profit margin on the coffee capsules it uses.
References External links Wigomat: Eine Hommage an die erste Filterkaffeemaschine der Welt (archived 2018-03-20)
In 2015 Lavazza introduced the A Modo Mio Fantasia coffee machine designed together with Electrolux.
In almost all beverages with milk, two capsules are needed: one capsule with milk powder and other with the other ingredient (be it coffee, tea or chocolate).
Nutrition facts In its plain form, Arabic coffee is considered a low-calorie beverage with minimal macronutrient content.
Subsidiaries Capresso - since 2008 References External links Jura Elektroapparate AG JURAworld of Coffee, visitor's centre
Single baskets are sharply tapered or stepped down in diameter to provide comparable depth to the double baskets and, therefore, comparable resistance to water pressure.
Ivory was carved in the same way as wood; however, its greater value meant that more care was needed to avoid mistakes.
History Breville The company was established in 1932, by Bill O’Brien and Harry Norville, who combined their two surnames to form the company name.
A commonly recommended brewing temperature for traditional coffee beverages is 91–94 °C (196–201 °F), which facilitates full extraction of desired compounds.
"System Büttner" coffee makers (German: Büttner-Kaffeemaschine) have been a type of manual and semi-automatic coffee makers combining coffee steeping (infusion, full immersion) with drip-filtering (percolation).
The company was founded in Antwerp in 1896, and in 1966 was appointed a "Certified Royal Warrant Holder of Belgium".
During the same year a feasibility study with the creation of some subsystems was conducted in order to validate the technological choices.
Indian filter coffee, particularly common in southern India, is prepared with rough-ground dark roasted coffee beans (e.g., Arabica, PeaBerry), and chicory.
This allows the Tassimo pod maker to brew a variety of hot drinks: filtered style coffee, cappuccino, short espresso, tea, and hot chocolate.
Subsequent designs have featured changes in heating elements, spray head, and brew-basket design, as well as the addition of timers and clocks for automatic-start, water filtration, filter and carafe design, drip stop, and even built-in coffee grinding mechanisms.
The Levant White coffee in the Levant "qahwah bayda" (قهوة بيضاء) is a caffeine-free drink made from water, orange blossom water, and sweetened with sugar if desired, or rose water.
Following the introduction of the lever machines by Gaggia in 1947, La Marzocco began to manufacture its own lever models.
Similar steam pressure-driven devices were invented in Paris by Alexandre Lebrun (1838) and in Berlin by H.
Reiner received his PhD at TU Wien in 1913 and made significant contributions to the development of the study of flow behavior known as rheology.
In 2016, significant changes were made to the competition format: Grinders were now provided by the competition's partner (Mahlkönig), new models of espresso machines were introduced, and the cappuccino was replaced by a "milk drink" component.
In the South of Europe, in countries like Italy or Spain, the domestic use of the moka expanded quickly and completely substituted the percolator by the end of the 1930s.
Another variant was the Arndt'sche Sturzmaschine (not to be confused with the Arndt'sche Caffee-Aufgussmaschine).
Singapore The name kopitiam symbolizes Singapore's multilingual culture: "kopi" is Malay for coffee, while "tiam" is Hokkien (or Fukienese) for shop.
Bunn-O-Matic Corporation is an American manufacturer of dispensed beverage equipment (including coffee and tea) headquartered in Springfield, Illinois, with a plant in Creston, Iowa.
In 2023, the SCA updated the rules and regulations and now allow the use of infused and co-fermented coffees in baristas' routines.
The beans are then weighed and transferred manually, by belt, or pneumatic conveyor to storage hoppers.
In 1978, Arthur Eugster and his brother Markus founded the Frismag AG in Amriswil and began producing coffee machines.
Espresso brew pitcher Small metal creamers may be used in making espresso-based drinks – the espresso being brewed into the pitcher, which is then poured into the drink.
Once the grounds are adequately steeped, the coffee is poured into a room-temperature bottle or keg.
In the 1970´s, Maas International incorporated coffee, beverages and snacks in its vending machines.
Hot Coffee documentary On June 27, 2011, HBO premiered a documentary about tort reform problems, Hot Coffee.
History Invention The first modern percolator incorporating the rising of boiling water through a tube to form a continuous cycle and capable of being heated on a kitchen stove was invented in 1819 by the Parisian tinsmith Joseph-Henry-Marie Laurens.
The original 1989 edition was by Lucchetti editore, Bergamo, Italy.); Bramah, Edward Roderick; Bramah, Joan (1995) [1989].
Name The name cezve is of Turkish origin, where it is a borrowing from Arabic: جِذوَة (jadhwa or jidhwa, meaning 'ember').
The corpus includes rich text materials from the blogosphere, social networks, major news sources and literary magazines.
Notable Practitioners of Interactional Sociolinguistics Gregory Bateson Dwight Bolinger Penelope Brown Wallace Chafe Frederick Erickson Erving Goffman John J.
August 29, 1939 – Lingua...there is no longer any talk of Bolshevists, but instead of the Russian people.
59-100) Archived 30 March 2012 at the Wayback Machine ‘On Acts, Pure and Impure’ (International Journal of Zizek Studies, vol.
"Naše škole i fakulteti su rasadište nacionalističkih mitova o jeziku: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [Our schools and faculties are hotbeds of nationalist myths about language: Interview with Snježana Kordić] (in Serbo-Croatian).
Damon Mayaffre holds a doctorate in history and linguistics, oversees research at the French National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS), and is a professor at the Université Nice-Sophia-Antipolis/Côte d'Azur.
Socially situated writing Second, in addition to the expansion of the genre, textual analysis has moved contrastive rhetoric to emphasize the social situation of writing.
Chilton is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Linguistics and English Language at the University of Lancaster.
It underlines odd constructions of words intended to give a "scientific" or neutral aspect to otherwise heavily engaged discourses, as well as significant every-day behaviour.
Mayaffre Damon with Vanni Laurent, (2021) L'intelligence artificielle des textes : Des algorithmes à l'interprétation (in French).
The process of attending to the foregrounded patterns in the text is the means by which we proceed from simple statements about the language to an explication of the ‘artness’ of the text.
Eni de Lourdes Puccinelli Orlandi is a Brazilian researcher with great influence in French Discourse Analysis, being the one to bring it to Brazil by translating to Portuguese Michel Pêcheux's books and articles.
Overtness of information, such as whether an argument of a verb is indicated by a lexical noun phrase, a pronoun, or not mentioned at all.
Finegan, Longman grammar of spoken and written English (Harlow: Pearson Education, 1999)", Arbeiten aus Anglistik und Amerikanistik 25/2, 2000, pp.
Considering an underlying text corpus, a word sketch quintuple is a quintuple consisting of headword, grammatical relation, collocation, position of headword in the corpus, position of collocation in the corpus (e.g.
But he said that "to the extent that I favoured any one angle, it was the social: language as the creature and creator of human society".
The relationship between doctor and patient (subject and object) is not about the one who knows and the one who tells, because doctor–patient interactions are not "mindless phenomenologies" that existed before their consultation (medical discourse) as patient and doctor.
With rates Y 0 , y , Y 1 {\displaystyle Y_{0},y,Y_{1}} for usage of another word class of the same 3 literatures, respectively, then 3 points, ( X 0 , Y 0 ) , ( x , y ) , ( X 1 , Y 1 ) {\displaystyle (X_{0},Y_{0}),(x,y),(X_{1},Y_{1})} will approximately be located on a line.
Turkish National Corpus – A general-purpose corpus for contemporary Turkish Archived 2 April 2015 at the Wayback Machine Corpus of Political Speeches, Free access to political speeches by American and Chinese politicians, developed by Hong Kong Baptist University Library Russian National Corpus
Semantic structure analysis (or SSA) is a methodology for systematic description of the intended meaning of natural language, developed by the Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Verbal context influences the way an expression is understood; hence the norm of not citing people out of context.
Krug, M.: "Douglas Biber, Stig Johansson, Geoffrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan, Longman grammar of spoken and written English.
It contains 458,000 documents (188 million tokens) that are collected from sources such as websites, news agencies, books, and magazines.
External links Semantic Structure Analysis — a bibliography of SIL-authored, theoretical-SSA publications at their official website, Ethnologue.com Semantic Structure Analysis — a bibliography of SIL-authored, applied-SSA publications, also at Ethnologue.com
In linguistics and in particular in natural language understanding, a dialog act can be interpreted as the atomic units of a conversation, more fine-grained than utterances, characterized by a specific communicative function.
From observation, words tend to exhibit only one sense in most given discourse and in a given collocation.
For example, in 1929, Edward Sapir urged linguists to move beyond diachronic and formal analyses for their own sake and to "become aware of what their science may mean for the interpretation of human conduct in general" (1929:207).
However, more recent empirical and theoretical studies have challenged the relevance of Zipf's law for cities.
Neurolinguistic analysis of context has shown that the interaction between interlocutors defined as parsers creates a reaction in the brain that reflects predictive and interpretative reactions.
'Relevant context' she defines as "that frame of consistency which is illuminated by the language of text" and "a semiotic construct".
The use of SCAN techniques has also been found to be vulnerable to contextual bias on the part of investigators.
Michael Halliday, the founder of systemic functional linguistics, calls these three functions the ideational, interpersonal, and textual.
She is also a researcher 1A at Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq).
Rather, speakers are constantly shifting their subject positions according to the interplay of discourses within specific settings.
In a 2002 article, Connor attempted to address these criticisms and to offer new directions for a viable contrastive rhetoric.
What allows meanings from these two modes to freely combine is the intercession of a third, distinct mode of meaning that Halliday refers to as the textual function.
The lexis and semantics differ, and a speaker uses words suited for children, "doggie" instead of "dog", for example.
‘The chicken turtles tasted like chicken.’ becomes ‘It was the chicken turtle | that tasted like chicken.’ In this case, clefting is used to shift the focus of the sentence to the subject, the chicken turtle.
ISBN 9780691138701.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: ref duplicates default (link) Scott, Mike; Tribble, Chris (2006).
Beginning in 2000, a series of monographs, edited collections, and textbooks by members of the group, some of them based on the doctoral research conducted within the programme were published, synthesizing the group's work.
it must be either "middle" or "effective", where "effective" leads to the further choice of "operative" (otherwise known as 'active') or "receptive" (otherwise known as "passive").
'Crystal clear', 'middle management', 'nuclear family', and 'cosmetic surgery' are examples of collocated pairs of words.
The distinction between dialect and diatype is not always clear; in some cases a language variety may be understood as both a dialect and a diatype.
A corpus language is a language that has no living speakers but for which numerous records produced by its native speakers survive.
Michael Young of Consolidated Goldfields would organise seven meetings known as the Mells Park Initiative between Willie Esterhuyse and his team of politically connected Afrikaners and the ANC's led by Thabo Mbeki of which Trew attended all.
Contextualism, also known as epistemic contextualism, is a family of views in philosophy which emphasize the context in which an action, utterance, or expression occurs.
A word sketch is a one-page, automatic, corpus-derived summary of a word’s grammatical and collocational behaviour.
However, it also makes WordNet a resource for highlighting and studying the differences between languages, so it is not necessarily a limitation for all use cases.
Paul Anthony Chilton (born 21 October 1944) is a British cognitive linguist and discourse analyst known for his work on conceptual metaphor, cognitive stylistics, and political discourse.
Conversation analysis While conversation analysis did indeed study language since its beginning, it grew out of sociology and often dealt with sociological research questions and topics.
Each of these disciplines (rhetoric, sociolinguistics, discourse analysis, conversation analysis, etc.) is based on a specific interest.
The Greeks may need four words to cover all the meanings English-speakers have in mind when speaking of "love".
Beyond these books, her work has been widely translated into multiple languages and disseminated internationally.
The name is also used for Eugene Nida's technique for mapping lexical items from a source language to a receptor language in translation theory.
In 2002 he took up a chair at Macquarie until 2008, when he was appointed chair and head of the Department of English at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
Not all extinct languages are corpus languages, since there are many extinct languages in which few or no writings or other records survive, as is the case in the vast majority of languages that have ever existed.
From 1971 to 1974 she taught the discipline of discourse analysis in the specialization course in translation at Pontifical Catholic University of Campinas.
According to Ferreday, media use of "Won't someone think of the children!" had become common in a climate of moral panic.
He uses the term épistémè (French pronunciation: [epistemɛ]) in his The Order of Things, in a specialized sense to mean the historical, non-temporal, a priori knowledge that grounds truth and discourses, thus representing the condition of their possibility within a particular epoch.
Teun Adrianus van Dijk (born 7 May 1943 in Naaldwijk, German-occupied Netherlands) is a scholar in the fields of text linguistics, discourse analysis and Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA).
A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language is a descriptive grammar of English written by Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik.
Another theory suggests that the term emerged from the idea of waffle batter spreading in an irregular, non-linear pattern, much like incoherent talk.
May 23, 1938 – The aim of education in the Third Reich and of the language of the Third Reich, is to expand the popular stratum in everyone to such an extent that the thinking stratum is suffocated.
A number of concordancers have been published, notably Oxford Concordance Program (OCP), a concordancer first released in 1981 by Oxford University Computing Services, which claims to be used in over 200 organisations worldwide.
Formal account A word sketch triple is a triple consisting of headword, grammatical relation, collocation (e.g.
Uses Value Stance can be used to attribute personal value to an object by way of describing how the speaker feels about it.
Talk is seen as (and, in experimental psychology and protocol analysis, used as) descriptions of people's mental content.
Macrostructures may be derived from microstructures by operations such as abstracting, that is, leaving out or summarizing specific details.
Nuclei are considered as the most important parts of text whereas satellites contribute to the nuclei and are secondary.
Recently topic models has been used to extract information from dataset of cancers' genomic samples.
Aristotle Aristotle distinguished between five virtues of thought: technê, epistêmê, phronêsis, sophia, and nous, with techne translating as "craft" or "art" and episteme as "knowledge".
These semantic macrostructures (global meanings or topics) are typically expressed in for instance the headlines and lead of a news report, or the title and the abstract of a scholarly article.
As Halliday points out, "the more permanent the attribute of a thing, the less likely it is to identify it in a particular context" (that is, of the speech event).
Many linguistic anthropologists have come to understand that language and culture are not separate entities, but are in fact processes that work hand in hand.
Using the corpus tools, these dictionaries can be searched not only for words, but also for lexico-grammatical patterns within examples and phraseological expressions.
Studies have raised serious questions and concerns about the validity of CBCA for assessing the credibility of children's testimonies.
President Bill Clinton as a waffle who would switch sides on issues to gain approval == References ==
Utterances that are represented or portrayed in writing are planned, unlike utterances in improvised spoken language.
Since then, Sketch Engine has been commercial software, however, all the core features of Manatee and Bonito that were developed by 2003 (and extended since then) are freely available under the GPL license within the NoSketch Engine suite.
In this formulation, language variation can be divided into two categories: dialect, for variation according to user, and diatype for variation according to use (e.g.
Born in 1922 he was able to play a crucial role in setting up how future scholars looked at language, culture, and social meaning.
According to Connor, the term intercultural rhetoric better describes the broadening trends of expression across languages and cultures.
A quasi-comparable corpus includes very heterogeneous and non-parallel bilingual documents that may or may not be topic-aligned.
It is used by investigators in assorted fields as can be seen in the list below of works using the software.
The "criteria-based content analysis" (CBCA) is a core component of the SVA and is a tool used to distinguish true statements from false statements as CBCA scores are expected to be higher for truth tellers than liars.
Korpusomat - a tool for creating and searching electronic language corpora, created at the Institute of Computer Science of the Polish Academy of Sciences.
Recent work in experimental philosophy has taken an empirical approach to testing the claims of contextualism and related views.
The output of a concordancer may serve as input to a translation memory system for computer-assisted translation, or as an early step in machine translation.
Further details about her family background and their experiences of exile and return are documented in the biography Die Wodaks.
The program analyzes the text and, for each word form, determines the lemma (lexeme) and tags (grammatical features).
Since the 1980s his work in CDA focused especially on the study of the discursive reproduction of racism by what he calls the 'symbolic elites' (politicians, journalists, scholars, writers), the study of news in the press, and on the theories of ideology, context and knowledge.
Sketch Engine: Open corpora with free access TS Corpus – A Turkish Corpus freely available for academic research.
In other approaches in linguistics (including linguistic anthropology, sociolinguistics, corpus linguistics), alternative terms such as evaluation or stance are preferred.
The influence of context parameters on language use or discourse is usually studied in terms of language variation, style or register (see Stylistics).
Feminist post-structuralist discourse analysis (FPDA) is a method of discourse analysis based on Chris Weedon's theories of feminist post-structuralism, and developed as a method of analysis by Judith Baxter in 2003.
Satellite discourse in a changing Europe (with Kay Richardson), London & New York: Routledge, 1999 English in a Changing World (with David Graddol) (1999) Intertextuality and the Media: from Genre to Everyday life (with Jonathan M.
Choice of deixis, such as articles; "medial" deictics such as Spanish ese and Japanese sore are generally determined by the familiarity of a referent rather than by physical distance.
Ulrike Hanna Meinhof is an Emeritus Professor in the Department of Modern Languages at the University of Southampton in Hampshire.
He noted that Kordić's first book on relative clauses is: a valuable and thorough study of the grammar of relative constructions, drawing theoretical-linguistic inspiration from a number of sources and citing statistical results based on a large representative corpus.
This is a recent project with multiple layers of annotation including morphological segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, and syntactic analysis using dependency grammar.
In order to make the corpora more useful for doing linguistic research, they are often subjected to a process known as annotation.
For example, some terms generally considered context-sensitive are indexicals, such as 'I', 'here', and 'now'; while 'I' has a constant linguistic meaning in all contexts of use, whom it refers to varies with context.
She has also contributed commentaries and short essays to Der Standard, Newsweek, Rantt, Euronews, and the online platforms OpenDemocracy and the Center for the Analysis of the Radical Right (CARR).
They concern (i) the interpersonal exchange between speaker and listener, and writer and reader; (ii) representation of our outer and inner worlds; and (iii) the wording of these meanings in cohesive spoken and written texts, from within the clause up to whole texts.
He founded five international journals: Poetics, Text (now called Text & Talk), Discourse & Society, Discourse Studies, Discourse & Communication, of which he still edits the last three.
The field contrasts with dominant approaches to linguistics during the twentieth century, which tended to focus either on the form of language per se, or on theories of individual language user's linguistic competence.
"and stuff"), accent/dialect, deictic expressions (utterances such as "over there!" that need further explanation to be understood), simple conjunctions ("and", "but", etc.), and colloquial lexis (everyday informal words).
Matthiessen completed his undergraduate degree at Lund University in 1980, where he studied English, Arabic, and philosophy.
As with other types of language variation, there tends to be a spectrum of registers rather than a discrete set of obviously distinct varieties—numerous registers can be identified, with no clear boundaries between them.
See also Text corpus Corpus linguistics Russian National Corpus Internet linguistics References Further reading Belikov V., Kopylov N., Piperski A., Selegey V., Sharoff S., (2013), Big and diverse is beautiful: A large corpus of Russian to study linguistic variation.
An example of the influence of this framing, according to Cinnamon, is how data are considered the primary solution for urban challenges.
Interactional linguistics does not subscribe to the strict separation of competence and performance of generative grammar.
Philologies Text corpora are also used in the study of historical documents, for example in attempts to decipher ancient scripts, or in Biblical scholarship.
History of Poetics Western Poetics Generally speaking, poetics in the Western tradition emerged out of Ancient Greece.
of the Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing associated with the International Conference RANLP, Hissar, Bulgaria.
Monograph on relative clauses in Serbo-Croatian (1995) Her first monograph on relative clauses was well received.
Macrostructure is an important concept in the Construction-Integration (CI) model detailed by Walter Kintsch in his landmark tome, Comprehension: A Paradigm for Cognition.
In this case, the words "life" and "manufacturing" are chosen as initial seed collocations for senses A and B respectively.
A corpus manager can be software installed on a personal computer or it might be provided as a web service.
University of Pittsburgh English Language Institute Corpus (PELIC) Vienna-Oxford International Corpus of English (VOICE), an ELF corpus.
Contextualist accounts of knowledge became increasingly popular toward the end of the 20th century, particularly as responses to the problem of skepticism.
Translatability There are, however, numerous political dimensions that come into play when keywords are studied in relation to cultures, societies and their histories.
Text corpora (singular: text corpus) are large and structured sets of texts, which have been systematically collected.
A word sketch database is a set of such triples or quintuples, which may be generated either by querying a corpus using corpus query language or by parsing the corpus using a natural language parser.
Tony Trew (also known as Anthony Andrew Trew) (Cape Town, 6 July 1941) is a South African politician and discourse analyst.
OpenCyc, an open ontology and knowledge base of everyday common sense knowledge, has 12,000 terms linked to WordNet synonym sets.
In discourse-based grammatical theory, information flow is any tracking of referential information by speakers.
Hence, despite their medical researches having occurred thirty years apart, the father of anatomical pathology, Giovanni Battista Morgagni (1682–1771), and the father of histology, Xavier Bichat (1771–1802), did not practise the same human anatomy.
Meinhof is the author of Language Learning in the Age of Satellite Television, published by Oxford University Press.
WordNet is the most commonly used computational lexicon of English for word-sense disambiguation (WSD), a task aimed at assigning the context-appropriate meanings (i.e.
Lovejoy's Law After the popularization of the phrase on The Simpsons, its use in society was often ridiculed, and came to be referred to as "Lovejoy's Law" in internet culture as early as 2006, probably independently coined several times.
description of English based on Halliday's work." His co-authored book, with Michael Halliday, Construing Experience through Meaning: A language based approach to cognition shows how to construe a linguistic/semiotic approach to cognition without invoking pre-linguistic mental fictions.
Nelson has been analyzing change in topics over time in the Richmond Times-Dispatch to understand social and political changes and continuities in Richmond during the American Civil War.
Richardson, eds.), London & New York: Longman, 1994 Télé-textes (with Elspeth Broady) (1995) Language and Masculinity (with S.
Research His research focus has been on the study of how people understand language, using both experimental methods and computational modeling techniques.
This approach is not fully automatic, a human judge must decide which word will be selected for each target word’s sense, the outputs will be reliable indicators of the senses.
See also COCOA (digital humanities) Cross-reference Ctags KWIC Language industry Statistically improbable phrase == References ==
Interactional stances In Conversation analysis, stance is used to express various nuances of action or an overlay to an action.
In addressing the critiques, she aimed to draw attention to the broad scope of contrastive rhetoric and determined that a new term would better encompass the essence of contrastive rhetoric in its current state.
As more newly-learned collocations are added to the seed sets, the sense A or sense B set will grow, and the original residual will shrink.
(1995) Lexicogrammatical cartography: English systems, Tokyo, International Language Sciences Publishers Halliday M.A.K., Matthiessen C.M.I.M.
The corpus is created either by adding text files from the local drive (in any language and format), or by indicating websites from which texts are to be downloaded.
Analyser les textes de communication, Paris, Dunod, 1998 (Portuguese (Brazil) translation: São Paulo, Cortez, 2001; Romanian translation: Iasi, Institutul European, 2007; Spanish translation: Buenos Aires, Nueva Visión, 2009).
Abstraction consists of the translation (mapping) of terms in the scheme to terms in a theoretically motivated model or dataset.
A dialog system typically includes a taxonomy of dialog types or tags that classify the different functions dialog acts can play.
In Book III Plato defines poetry as a type of narrative which takes one of three forms: the "simple," the "imitative" (mimetic), or any mix of the two.
On the latter, according to reviewers, Damon Mayaffre shows that President Chirac overuses the adverb "naturally" to assert with confidence things that are far from reality or to articulate with the force of evidence "one thing and its opposite".
Martin, May 1986 Halliday's Collected Papers in 10 volumes Michael Halliday's 2010 talk at UBC on YouTube Halliday, M.A.K.
The term likely derives from the Scots verb waff, meaning "to wave" or "fluctuate," which aligns with the meandering and aimless nature of waffling speech.
Towards a discursive psychology of the media", in Tileagă, Cristian; Stokoe, Elizabeth (eds.), Discursive psychology: classic and contemporary issues, Oxford New York: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-415-72160-8.
The IndoWordNet is a linked lexical knowledge base of wordnets of 18 scheduled languages of India viz., Assamese, Bangla, Bodo, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kashmiri, Konkani, Malayalam, Meitei (Manipuri), Marathi, Nepali, Odia, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.
For example, understanding how geometrical axioms lead to a theorem about properties of triangles counts as understanding the cause of the proven property of the right triangle.
Plato's Republic The Republic by Plato represents the first major Western work to treat the theory of poetry.
Unit 3 is the Central Discourse Unit (CDU) of the text, since all units point to it directly or indirectly.
This reveals that any of those new point sets for one of the additional works on different lines of word classes is located approximately on a different vertical line.
Then, the corpus is annotated automatically on several levels: morphosyntantic, named entities recognition (e.g.
According to Denick, social imaginaries enable social practices by providing ways to understand the world.
In this example, each speaker takes a stance with the words that they say, but only Speaker A explicitly demonstrates their stance.
In the 1960s she worked at the Sociolinguistic Research Centre with Basil Bernstein, on issues concerning the relation of language and the distribution of forms of consciousness.
clause constituents (the apples) (are) (on the chair), phrase constituents (on) (the chair), group constituents (the) (apples), word constituents (apple)(s).
Reference Bibles may contain the original languages and a translation, or several translations by themselves, for ease of comparison and study; Origen's Hexapla (Greek for "sixfold") placed six versions of the Old Testament side by side.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English represents a large-scale corpus-based grammar focussing in its grammatical description of English mainly on "functional interpretation of the quantitative findings" (p.
van Dijk was a professor of discourse studies at the University of Amsterdam from 1968 until 2004, and since 1999 he has taught at the Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona.
Hierarchical latent tree analysis (HLTA) is an alternative to LDA, which models word co-occurrence using a tree of latent variables and the states of the latent variables, which correspond to soft clusters of documents, are interpreted as topics.
She is a researcher at Laboratório de Estudos Urbanos - Unicamp (Laboratory of Urban Studies of the University of Campinas), professor and coordinator of the Science Program of the Universidade do Vale da Linguagem do Sapucaí and professor of the University of Campinas.
His doctoral thesis, completed under the supervision of Ernesto Laclau, was entitled ‘New Directions in the Theory of Ideology and the Case of Green Ideology’.
SKELL A free web service based on Sketch Engine and aimed at language learners and teachers is SKELL (formerly SkELL).
The paradigmatic formulation of this approach and of its various conceptual innovations can be found in Laclau’s and Mouffe’s Hegemony and Socialist Strategy, first published in 1985, as well as in subsequent works.
Word sketches were first introduced by the British corpus linguist Adam Kilgarriff and exploited within the Sketch Engine corpus management system.
Relations to linguistic theories Interactional linguistics has connections to various linguistic approaches, such as discourse analysis and conversation analysis, and is used to investigate the relationship between grammatical structure and real-time interaction and language use.
However, countries such as the United States, Canada and the UK do not consider these techniques as legally valid evidence in court.
Discursive psychology therefore starts with psychological phenomena as things that are constructed, attended to, and understood in interaction.
A number of quite basic categories and concepts do not seem to have been thought through with sufficient care; this results in a remarkable amount of unclarity and inconsistency in the analysis, and in the organization of the grammar.
Such a growth process results in the Yule–Simon distribution, which has been shown to fit word frequency versus rank in language and population versus city rank better than Zipf's law.
It exploits Sketch Engine's proprietary GDEX (Good Dictionary Examples) scoring function to provide authentic example sentences for specific target words.
Concordancers are also used in corpus linguistics to retrieve alphabetically or otherwise sorted lists of linguistic data from the corpus in question, which the corpus linguist then analyzes.
FPDA analyses the ways in which speakers are 'positioned' by different and often competing 'discourses' according to Michel Foucault's (1972: 49) definition as 'practices that systematically form the objects of which they speak'.
See also References External links Ozdic Collocation Dictionary A Small System Storing Spanish Collocations (Igor A.
These can vary depending on individual priorities, as they are not as well established, but they tend to prioritize data justice and community-oriented politics.
Discursive dominance or discursive power is the ultimate emergence of one discourse as dominant among competing ones in their struggle for dominance.
In this sense, language use or discourse may be called more or less 'appropriate' in a given context.
Topic models are commonly used to organize and discover latent features in large collections of unstructured text and other forms of big data.
By the early decades of the sixteenth century, vernacular versions of Aristotle's Poetics appeared, culminating in Lodovico Castelvetro's Italian editions of 1570 and 1576.
This means that it aims to represent women's voices that have been 'silenced' or marginalised since FPDA considers that these have been historically absent in many cultures.
The proper noun (or the common noun when there is no proper noun) functions as the head of the nominal group; all other constituents work as modifiers of the head.
This theoretical and analytical orientation is known today as the 'Essex School of discourse analysis'.
In a society there are competing discourses (or narratives) regarding anything and everything such as feminism, racism, casteism, communalism, regionalism, economic development, democracy, governance, etc.
He is the author of several books on contemporary French presidential speeches evaluated scientifically and statistically via software-supported analysis.
From linguistic point of view, RST proposes a different view of text organization than most linguistic theories.
Early usage during the 20th century included writings in 1914 by the National Child Labor Committee criticizing child labor standards in the United States.
It is one of the ways in which linguists look at the intersections of human language and human society; other subfields that take this perspective are language planning, minority language studies, quantitative sociolinguistics, and sociohistorical linguistics, among others.
Colin, 2004 (Portuguese (Brazil) translation: São Paulo, Contexto, 2006; Romanian translation: Iasi, Institutul European, 2008; Polish translation: Varsovie, Instytut Badaǹ Literackich, 2015).
He was one of the editors of the seminal book Language and control (1979), which helped establish critical linguistics as an academic field.
It came to designate the instinctive understanding of complex geo-political problems by the Nazis, which allowed them to openly begin invasions, twist facts or violate human rights, in the name of a higher ideal and in accordance to their theory of the world.
Of this work on semantic variation, Jay Lemke, adjunct professor of communication at the University of California, writes: The results of this work were at least twofold.
Its growing use is a response to the increasingly narrow association of the term sociolinguistics with specific types of research involving the quantitative analysis of linguistic features and their correlation to sociological variables.
Chilton developed a three-dimensional model to analyze semantic structure in natural languages, based on spatial cognition and using a formalism derived from vector geometry.
The AsoSoft text corpus is the first large-scale Kurdish text corpus, collected and processed by the AsoSoft research and development group.
External links Sketch Engine website List of corpora available in Sketch Engine OneClick terms – online term extractor with term extraction technology from Sketch Engine SKELL – Sketch Engine for language learning
In a comparable corpus, the texts are of the same kind and cover the same content, but they are not translations of each other.
Once removed these particles depending on their nature may have adverse effects on the environment and must be treated carefully.
For chemical reactions, it requires extensive knowledge of both chemical reaction hazards and fluid flow.
See also Expanded metal Faraday cage Gauze Wire gauze Heating mantle Latticework Sieve Mesh size, a scale for classifying mesh (sieves) used for grading particles by size.
A vessel with internal pressure lower than atmospheric may also be called a hypobaric vessel or a vacuum vessel.
Pitch was familiar in 9th-century Iraq, derived from petroleum that became accessible from natural fields in the region.
This means that the Compressed Gas Association has classified this connection as number 540, the thread bore is 0.903 inches, with 14 threads per inch.
The origin of the policeman and its name cannot be identified for sure but some clues led back to the 19th century from German chemist Carl Remigius Fresenius.
The vessel must be designed to withstand the load of someone standing on these ladders, and even withstand a person standing on the roof.
Although the thermal efficiency of the bottle oven was low, with approximately 70% of the energy derived from fuel being lost as waste heat, these kilns remained the primary method of firing pottery until the mid-twentieth century.
Leakage, and its interaction with other losses in the flow field, is complex; and hence, at the tip, it has a more pronounced effect than secondary flow.
Gas flow The stream of hot gas can either be moving toward the discharge end from the feed end (known as co-current flow), or toward the feed end from the discharge end (known as counter-current flow).
There are two known major groups of earthenware and celadon kiln sites from the Goryeo period: those in Gangjin County and more in Buan County.
Each pressure vessel that conforms to the ASME code has its own MDMT, and this temperature is stamped on the vessel nameplate.
This type of plate evaporator is frequently applied in the dairy and fermentation industries since they have spatial flexibility.
In principle, this eliminates tank breathing loss and greatly reduces the evaporative loss of the stored liquid.
Instead, PAC is generally added directly to other process units, such as raw water intakes, rapid mix basins, clarifiers, and gravity filters.
Comminution is important in mineral processing, where rocks are broken into small particles to help liberate the ore from gangue.
Types U-tube The heat exchanger usually consists of one or two u-tubes through which the carrier fluid, usually water, circulates.
The kilns were built in 1886 to produce charcoal to fuel the smelter at Nicholia, which smelted lead and silver ore from the Viola Mine about 10 miles east of the kilns.
After getting deflected the particles stay at the inner wall of the particle collector tube and are completely uncharged.
The kilns each have three openings: a top opening, a door at ground level, and a rear window with a ramp for wood wagons.
The pump of an evaporator may need to be changed if the evaporator needs to be used to concentrate a highly viscous solution.
To emphasize the small particle sizes possible with this new technology, it has been described as "nano" spray drying.
Efficiency exceeding 100 % Flue gas condensation may cause the heat recovered to exceed the Lower Heating Value of the input fuel, and thus an efficiency greater than 100%.
Kinetics Although the physical reactor is relatively simple, the hydrodynamics in the reactor are extremely complex.
There is currently only one unit approved as Case 12 under the US National Standard - ASME PVHO-1 (2019).
Dauenhauer, Professor - University of Minnesota 2019: Yuriy Roman-Leschkov, Professor - Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2023: Rajamani Gounder, Professor - Purdue University See also Molecular design software References External links ISCRE web site
A slug catcher is a type of vapor–liquid separator that is able to receive a large inflow of liquid at random times.
With a solid phase catalyst and fluid phase reagents, this is proportional to the exposed area, efficiency of diffusion of reagents in and products out, and efficacy of mixing.
Because the cooling water, which is chemically treated fresh water, is at a temperature of 70–80 °C (158–176 °F), it would not be possible to flash off any water vapor unless the pressure in the heat exchanger vessel is dropped.
In many cases, the tubes of a rising film evaporator are usually between 3–10 metres (9.8–32.8 ft) in height with a diameter of between 25–50 millimetres (0.98–1.97 in).
Scrubbers on ships Scrubbers on ships were first used for the production of inert gas for oil tanker operations.
Due to FRP's weakness to buckling, but immense strength against tensile forces and its resistance to corrosion, a hydrostatic tank is a logical application for the composite.
A recuperative multi-tube cooler is a rotary drum cooler used for continuous processes in chemical engineering.
History There are two known major groups of earthenware and celadon kiln sites from the Goryeo period: these in Gangjin County and those in Buan County in North Jeolla Province.
This makes this type of filter particularly suitable in bioburden testing, as common pore sizes (i.e.
The water can then be drained off by opening a valve in the bottom of the bowl and letting it run out, until only the fuel remains.
In seawater desalination plants, fouling may reduce the gained output ratio by two-digit percentages (the gained output ratio is an equivalent that puts the mass of generated distillate in relation to the steam used in the process).
The American Standard Safety System (ASSS) is a connection system for gas cylinders with a volume exceeding 25 cubic feet.
Since historically most combustion processes have not condensed the fuel, usual efficiency calculations assume the combustion products are not condensed.
Industry Concern With the publication of BS EN 13121-3, BS 4994:1987 Specification for design and construction of vessels and tanks in reinforced plastics is declared obsolescent in European Union.
Some treatments may be performed on the hyperbaric stretcher, provided the patient is sufficiently fit for unattended recompression.
Wet scrubbers are only effective for removal of soluble mercury species, such as oxidized mercury, Hg2+.
Corrosion-resistant materials for these scrubbers are very expensive; therefore, these devices are not used in applications where corrosion or sticky materials could cause problems.
Shock losses are accompanied by shock-boundary-layer interaction losses, boundary-layer losses in profile secondary flow, and tip clearance effects.
In relation to that, the Artisan Rising Film Evaporator is designed to eliminate the majority of the volatile components before stripping and is usually used as a flash evaporator or pre-heater.
While fans are commonly used to lower body temperature through evaporative cooling, there is a point at which the convection effect of moving air can counteract this benefit.
Both kilns are 30 feet (9.1 m) tall and 25 feet (7.6 m) in diameter and were built from rocks and mud.
People taking medication, including birth control pills and antidepressants, are advised to avoid novelty foods or drinks that use activated charcoal coloring since it can render the medication ineffective.
In some cases it may be the lowest temperature at which significant stresses will occur and not the lowest possible temperature.
A well-engineered kiln, when the power is cut off, will swing pendulum-like many times before coming to rest.
In addition, rotating parts are subject to vibration-induced fatigue or wear, causing them to become unbalanced.
The air-to-cloth ratio is the volumetric flow rate of air (m3/minute; SI m3/second) flowing through a dust collector's inlet duct divided by the total cloth area (m2) in the filters.
Additional advantage is the availability of the option to operate the evaporator as a continuous process which is overall more energy and time efficient than a batch process operation.
A centrifugal evaporator is a device used in chemical and biochemical laboratories for the efficient and gentle evaporation of solvents from many samples at the same time, and samples contained in microtitre plates.
Instantly removed liquid which flows into rear chamber through siphon pipe, creates vacuum underneath the filter medium.
The two oceanauts, Albert Falco and Claude Wesly, were expected to spend at least five hours a day outside the station, and were subject to daily medical exams.
Wire mesh can be fabricated to produce park benches, waste baskets and other baskets for material handling.
The listing included two charcoal kilns that each are about six feet in diameter and four feet deep, built out of stone.
The advantages of a good back-mixed bed include excellent temperature control and, by reducing bed plugging and channeling, low and constant pressure drops.
When a reactor is brought into operation, either for the first time or after a shutdown, it is in a transient state, and key process variables change with time.
The sides are scraped by blades made of a rigid plastic material to prevent damage to the scraped surface.
Requirements and Compliance Equipment to be used in Australia or New Zealand must meet the following requirements: Compliance with the Standards listed in this Standard, including international Standards, or those equivalently agreed between all parties.
It also used in biological laboratories, to transfer tissue culture cells from a plate to a suspension.
There are several types of batch reactor cooling jackets, including single external jacket, half-coil jacket, and constant flux heat jacket.
The vibrations to the deck are directed in vertical component to assist in fluidization of the material whereas the horizontal component of the vibration, support in transporting materials along the tray.
Pre-filling inspection of the cylinder Common sizes The below are example cylinder sizes and do not constitute an industry standard.
On large vessels, it can take many minutes to adjust the temperature of the fluid in the cooling jacket.
A Butte, Montana, man named Warren King built 16 kilns from brick made from local clay, possibly obtained from Jump Creek on the east side of the Birch Creek valley.
This is because with increased drying rate, the drying process in the vibrating fluidized bed will be shorter giving the vibrating fluidized bed an overall better efficiency.
High end fuel bladders offer a high degree of protection of the stored liquids, ensuring the contents never come in contact with air.
Leakage-flow induced three-dimensionality, like the mixing of leakage flow with vortex formation, entrainment process, diffusion and convection.
This basic idea combines the flow of large bulks of product good heat transfer with continuous movement of the product for even drying results.
The ANFD class of filter dryer consists of a main insulated jacketed vessel and filtration base which can be lowered for inspection and replacement of the filter media.
Another mechanically aided scrubber, the induced-spray, consists of a whirling rotor submerged in a pool of liquid.
A Turbo Filter-Dryer is another class of filter dryer which also incorporates the listed operations, but works on a different set of filtration principle.
The rubber tube should be left protruding slightly beyond the end of the glass tube and sealed together with a little bicycle [i.e.
If the cylinder's contents are liquid, but become a gas at ambient conditions, this is commonly referred to as a boiling liquid expanding vapour explosion (BLEVE).
In 1957, the trials ship HMS Cumberland, an obsolete heavy cruiser, was used for the first tests of the 'flexing element' distiller, where non-rigid heating coils flexed continually in service and so broke the scale free as soon as it formed a stiff layer.
Maintenance problems As with almost any device, the addition of moving parts leads to an increase in potential maintenance problems.
A single vessel can carry out a sequence of different operations without the need to break containment.
In 1946, Pickels cofounded Spinco (Specialized Instruments Corp.) to market analytical and preparative ultracentrifuges based on his design.
Generally the Division 2 rules are more onerous than in Division 1 with respect to materials, design and nondestructive examinations but higher design stress intensity values are allowed.
If these substances are not removed before the fuel enters the system, they will cause rapid wear and failure of the fuel pump and injectors.
Although originally applied to the petroleum and petrochemical industries, its general methodology combining reaction chemistry and chemical engineering concepts allows optimization of a variety of systems where modeling or engineering of reactions is needed.
The following provides a sample of some of the Standards applicable to pressure equipment under this Standard.
ISCRE symposia are a unique gathering place for reaction engineers where research gains are consolidated and new frontiers explored.
Iodine number is defined as the milligrams of iodine adsorbed by one gram of carbon when the iodine concentration in the residual filtrate is at a concentration of 0.02 normal (i.e.
Since this involves practically no downhole equipment, these systems usually only go by the name of borehole heat exchangers (BHT).
Most of the Sadang-ri kilns date to around the 12th and 13th centuries, although they are in poorer condition, as many of them had been converted to farmland in the past.
Innovations included decorative techniques such as "swirl ware"; pottery made by combining two or more different colors of clay.
Instead of a cap, cylinders sometimes have a protective collar or neck ring around the valve assembly which has an opening for access to fit a regulator or other fitting to the valve outlet, and access to operate the valve.
This liquid rate is adjusted by varying the speed of the ebullating pump, a canned centrifugal pump which controls the flow of ebullating liquid obtained from the internal vapor/liquid separator inside the reactor.
This configuration allows researchers to control parameters such as oxygen partial pressure (pO₂), total pressure, and gas composition, enabling studies of oxidation, reduction, volatilization, and other high-temperature chemical reactions.
Standing column well If no casing is installed and groundwater is permitted to charge the system, this arrangement is no longer a BHT, but rather a standing column well.
It is made of flexible material and when the internal pressure matches the external pressure, it is collapsible, which can make transfer under pressure possible with relatively small hyperbaric chambers.
This is less effective because dense precipitates may become compacted at the bottom of the beaker, while light precipitates may be dispersed on the walls of the beaker.
This variability reduces the risk of errors such as administering the wrong gas to a patient, or utilizing equipment calibrated for one gas with another.
Aquabulle Launched for the first time in March 1978, this underwater shelter suspended in midwater (between 0 and 60 metres) is a mini scientific observatory 2.8 metres high by 2.5 metres in diameter.
The standard was prepared under the European Commission Mandate 83/139/EEC the Pressure Equipment Directive (PED).
Filter dryers are designed for washing and isolating solids with or without integrated containment systems.
That is, given the same space-time (or residence time), a reaction will proceed to a higher percentage completion in a PFR than in a CSTR.
Construction Recuperative multi-tube coolers essentially exist of a turning rotor which is mostly driven via chain.
There are no surviving remains of the town of Woodland, a short distance south of the kilns, where the kiln workers lived.
Davis, 2003, The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., ISBN 007245007X, ISBN 9780072450071 ISCRE Symposia The most important series of symposia are the International Symposia on Chemical Reaction Engineering or ISCRE conferences.
In geology, comminution refers to a natural process during faulting in the upper part of the Earth's crust.
It was very energy inefficient, a 1937 British Pottery Manufactures Federation publication stated that in an updraught oven only 11% of the energy produced by burning the coal heated the saggers and the pottery they contained.
A vortex breaker on the liquid outlet prevents the formation of vortices and of vapor being drawn into the liquid outlet.
Various factors are considered in determining the correct type of dryer for any given application, including the material to be dried, drying process requirements, production requirements, final product quality requirements and available facility space.
The EPA has set clear guidelines for the use of secondary containment concerning fuel bladders and imposes fines for discharging of fuel into the environment.
The addition of a combustion chamber at the feed end helps ensure efficient fuel usage, and homogenous drying air temperatures.
Thus flue gas condensation is normally implemented at biomass fired boilers and waste incinerators connected district heating grids with relatively low return temperatures (below approximately 55 °C (131 °F)).
Vertical Peeler Centrifuge Vertical peeler centrifuge is more cost efficient compared to horizontal Krauss-Maffei peeler centrifuge due to its compact design.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advises against fan use when temperatures exceed 32.2 °C (90 °F), while the World Health Organization (WHO) suggests avoiding fan use above 40 °C (104 °F).
[2] The filter element matrix consists of molded sintered polyethylene (PE) with a reinforced mounting header.
Because the coolant in the pressurizer is quite hot during normal operations, the space above the liquid coolant is vaporized coolant (steam).
Patent US158764 was granted in 1875 to Conrad Wendel and William Florich for an improvement in centrifugal evaporators.
Typical products which can be handled are silicic acid, carbon black, pigments, aluminium oxide, magnesium oxide, etc.
Solidification fouling Solidification fouling occurs when a component of the flowing fluid "freezes" onto a surface forming a solid fouling deposit.
Recommender systems and content discovery platforms are active information filtering systems that attempt to present to the user information items (film, television, music, books, news, web pages) the user is interested in.
Etymology According to the Oxford English Dictionary, kiln was derived from the words cyline, cylene, cyln(e) in Old English, in turn derived from Latin culina ('kitchen').
A fire-tube boiler exploded at the Grover Shoe Factory in Brockton, Massachusetts, on March 20, 1905, which resulted in the deaths of 58 people and injured 150.
This would mean that a sudden pressure change can provide a hammer effect to the entire reactor coolant system.
Unlike radial machines, the main flow moves transversely across the impeller, passing the blading twice.
These experiments are difficult to process these powders by fluidisation due to the unpredictable behaviours of particles.
Disadvantages of regenerators The major disadvantage of rotary and fixed-matrix regenerators is that there is always some mixing of the fluid streams, and they can not be completely separated.
For those Cases that have been adopted will appear in the appropriate Code Cases book: "Boilers and Pressure Vessels" and "Nuclear Components." Codes Cases are usually intended to be incorporated in the Code in a later edition.
A relief valve or pressure relief valve (PRV) is a type of safety valve used to control or limit the pressure in a system; excessive pressure might otherwise build up and create a process upset, instrument or equipment failure, explosion, or fire.
One such example is the preparation of ketenes which may employ a tube furnace in the 'ketene lamp'.
A mesh is a barrier made of interlaced strands of metal, fiber or other flexible or ductile materials.
In non-hazardous systems, the fluid is often discharged to the atmosphere by a suitable discharge pipework designed to prevent rainwater ingress which can affect the set lift pressure, and positioned not to cause a hazard to personnel.
Subsequently, it undergoes assessment criteria which will measure the performance of the previous stage in relation to solutions of problems.
The most common types of industrial dryers are fluidized bed dryers, rotary dryers, rolling bed dryers, conduction dryers, convection dryers, pharmaceutical dryers, suspension/paste dryers, toroidal bed or TORBED dryers and dispersion dryers.
At low liquid levels the roof eventually lands and a vapor space forms between the liquid surface and the roof, similar to a fixed roof tank.
A further difficulty with submarines was the need to produce high-quality water for topping up their large storage batteries.
Critical exposure temperature (CET) is the lowest anticipated temperature to which the vessel will be subjected, taking into consideration lowest operating temperature, operational upsets, autorefrigeration, atmospheric temperature, and any other sources of cooling.
Microwave assisted firing: this technique combines microwave energy with more conventional energy sources, such as radiant gas or electric heating, to process ceramic materials to the required high temperatures.
However, as there are only 26 connections for the 62 gases and mixtures recognized by the CGA, connections are not unique.
Catalytic reactor Although catalytic reactors are often implemented as plug flow reactors, their analysis requires more complicated treatment.
Queensland Some pressure equipment (excluding pressure piping) is regulated in the state of Queensland as per Schedule 4 (13) of the Workplace Health and Safety Regulation 2008.
The Kiln Site in Yucheon-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 유천리 요지; Hanja: 扶安柳川里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Yucheon-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
The benefits of using a flexible storage system like fuel bladders include their ability to be transported and set up quickly.
In this manner, both the supply and drain flow can be regulated to prevent the separator from becoming overloaded.
Filters for foreign particles Unfiltered fuel may contain several kinds of contamination, for example paint chips and dirt that has entered the fuel tank while filling, or rust caused by moisture in a steel tank.
Greatest output is achieved when the evaporator operates at near atmospheric pressure and a high temperature (for saturated steam this will be at a limit of 100 °C), which may then have an efficiency of 0.87 kg of feedwater produced for each kg of steam supplied.
Primary use Fuel bladders are used in various fields, such as agribusiness, public works, humanitarian, military and industrial areas.
These specialised kilns remained operational for the calcination of flint pebbles, heating them to approximately 1,000°C, well into the 1990s.
Design and workmanship is the final part within a four parts standard series which specifies the necessary requirements for design, fabrication, inspection and testing by manufacturers and specifiers within the area of chemical storage.
The technique allows for creating uniform holes of any desired diameter to allow even a virus to be filtered.
The condensation of water releases more than 2 gigajoules (560 kWh) per ton of condensed water, which can be recovered in the cooler for e.g.
All of the goals are yet to be satisfied but numerous institutions, including the ALL-CRAFT program, are continuing to conduct work in this field.
The shell temperature needs to be maintained below around 350 °C (662 °F) to protect the steel from damage, and continuous infrared scanners are used to give early warning of "hot-spots" indicative of refractory failure.
In addition to the operational costs, also the capital cost increases because the heat exchangers have to be designed in larger sizes to compensate for the heat-transfer loss due to fouling.
Reactors in continuous processes are typically run at steady-state, whereas reactors in batch processes are necessarily operated in a transient state.
Typical examples are liquid-phase hydrogenation, hydrodesulfurization, and hydrodenitrogenation in refineries (three phase hydrotreater) and oxidation of harmful chemical compounds in wastewater streams or of cumene in the cumene process.
Powder Deaerators (also powder compactor or powder densifier) are working apparatuses for deaerating and compacting of dry, fine-grained powders.
Rolling bed dryers are most often used for drying wood chips and organic residues and are most often utilized in the biomass, waste/recycling, wood particle board, pellet, and biofuel industries.
This article may include information on pressure vessels in the broad sense, and is not restricted to any single definition.
Fiberglass vessels and constructs are also susceptible to degradation upon long-term exposure to sunlight.
The dynamic scraped surface heat exchanger (DSSHE) is a type of heat exchanger used to remove or add heat to fluids, mainly foodstuffs, but also other industrial products.
These require some ingenuity of design, since the tyre must fit the shell snugly, but also allow thermal movement.
Heterogeneous catalytic reactors are among the most commonly utilized chemical reactors in the chemical engineering industry.
Also in the treatment of waste water trickle bed reactors are used where the required biomass resides on the packed bed surface.
It was decided to lift it with the two divers according to the necessary decompression profile and nobody was harmed.
Common issues ascribed to batch reactors are their relatively high cost and unreliability in terms of product quality.
Comminution of solid materials requires various types of crushers and mills depending on the feed properties such as hardness at various size ranges and application requirements such as throughput and maintenance.
The economics of different wood drying technologies are based on the total energy, capital, insurance/risk, environmental impacts, labor, maintenance, and product degradation costs.
In June 1964, Robert Sténuit and Jon Lindberg spent 49 hours at 126m in Link's Man-in-the-Sea II project.
The aim of the application is to raise the bulk density and/or improve the handling properties of a product.
This indirect relationship is shown in Equation 7, r e c = m c W c m f W f {\displaystyle rec={\frac {m_{c}W_{c}}{m_{f}W_{f}}}} (Equation 7) where subscript c and f denote, the cake and feed respectively.
In order to prevent liquid contamination, a neutral barrier film is added to the fuel bladder's interior.
Steel cylinders may continue to be used indefinitely providing they pass periodic inspection and testing.
This increase in flow rate causes higher turbulence which results in an increase of the heat transfer coefficient.
As opposed to a fixed roof tank there is no vapor space (ullage) in the floating roof tank (except for very low liquid level situations).
On January 9, 1994, 188 of the kilns were proposed by South Korea as a tentative UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Downhole heat exchangers, like other use of geothermal energy, have the potential to significantly contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions.
System function Water on the roof is usually drained by a special flexible hose or other special drain line system that runs from drain-sumps on the roof, through the stored liquid to a drain valve on the shell at the base of the tank.
They are located in the Caribou-Targhee National Forest, which operates the location as a public interpretive site.
A hyperbaric stretcher must be portable, and should be compatible with transfer under pressure to and from full size hyperbaric chambers.
Relief valve (RV): A valve is used on a liquid service, which opens proportionally as the increasing pressure overcomes the spring pressure.
Gangjin Kiln Sites (Korean: 강진 고려청자 요지) refers to a number of Goryeo-era archaeological sites in Gangjin County, South Jeolla Province, South Korea.
In the manufacture of float glass, a lehr oven is a long kiln with an end-to-end temperature gradient, which is used for annealing newly made glass objects that are transported through the temperature gradient either on rollers or on a conveyor belt.
It is connected to a vacuum line via a hollow shaft creating a negative pressure within the filter drum.
The gases must be drawn through the kiln, and the preheater if fitted, by a fan situated at the exhaust end.
Applications The range of applications covers a number of industries, including food, chemical, petrochemical and pharmaceutical.
v = V / Δ t A {\displaystyle v={V/\Delta t \over {A}}} The air-to-cloth ratio is typically between 1.5 and 3.5 metres per minute, mainly depending on the concentration of dust loading.
An example of corrosion fouling can be formation of an iron oxide or oxyhydroxide deposit from corrosion of the carbon steel underneath.
It was later used in glass melting furnaces and steel making, to increase the efficiency of open hearth furnaces, and in high pressure boilers and chemical and other applications, where it continues to be important today.
Due to the AFB being a recent advancement in fluidization technology, little systematic study has been done on this, and characterising global and local flow patterns may prove difficult for chemical engineers as the “bed hydrodynamics are not the same in small and large scale fluidized beds”.
Winding angle of composite vessels Wound infinite cylindrical shapes optimally take a winding angle of 54.7 degrees to the cylindrical axis, as this gives the necessary twice the strength in the circumferential direction to the longitudinal.
Though the community had only been settled in 1870, by the end of the decade it had a post office, school, newspaper, and almost 1000 residents.
Electrostatic particle collector To collect the very fine particles a new technology is used in the field of "nano" spray drying.
The most advanced systems apply the vacuum slowly and run the rotor at speeds of 500 x gravity - this system is proven to prevent bumping and was patented by Genevac in the late 1990s.
The catalyst may have multiple configuration including: one large bed, several horizontal beds, several parallel packed tubes, multiple beds in their own shells.
To prevent such material weaknesses, objects made from molten glass are annealed by gradual cooling in a lehr oven, from the annealing point, a temperature just below the solidification temperature of the glass.
Industrial dryers are used to efficiently process large quantities of bulk materials that need reduced moisture levels.
These include additional stages, push hesitation, horizontal split process housing, integrated hydraulics, seals, pre-drained funnels and an integrated thickening function.
Scrubber waste products One side effect of scrubbing is that the process only moves the unwanted substance from the exhaust gases into a liquid solution, solid paste or powder form.
Both Ancient Roman pottery and medieval Chinese pottery could be fired in industrial quantities, with tens of thousands of pieces in a single firing.
The allowable pressure level of a rotary regenerator is relatively low, compared to heat exchangers.
The experiments in BIOPAN are exposed to solar and cosmic radiation, the space vacuum and weightlessness, or a selection thereof.
Cinnamon basil has somewhat narrow, slightly serrated, dark green, shiny leaves with reddish-purple veins, which can resemble certain types of mint, and produces small, pink flowers from July to September.
At least a couple novel varieties of mizuna have significant anthocyanin content, causing them to instead have pinkish to dark purple stems and/or leaves.
On 28 January 2013, Iranian news agencies reported that Iran sent a monkey in a "Pishgam" rocket to a height of 116 km (72 mi) and retrieved a "shipment".
However, recent research has found that cultural attitudes and widespread disgust toward eating insects, particularly in Western countries, make it unlikely that insects will significantly replace meat in human diets.
Mac's big chance to explore the furthest frontier and hurtle America ahead in the race to space might easily cost him his life.
After 2018, Cambodia became the largest exporter of crab-eating macaques, contributing 59% of all macaques traded in 2019 and 2020.
From 1957 to 1960, 11 flights with dogs were made on the R-2A series (developed from the R-1 missile) which flew to about 200 km (120 mi).
The list of tardigrades of South Africa is a list of species that form a part of the phylum Tardigrada of the fauna of South Africa.
One Small Step: The Story of the Space Chimps is a 2003 documentary film produced and directed by David Cassidy and Kristin Davy which aired on History Channel UK and CBC Television.
In 1994, Gibson's last year with the group and the 25th anniversary of the Apollo 11, Max Q was the warm-up band for Cheap Trick on their tour through Houston.
Re-stocking from Earth, a lunar orbiting Space station or Mars habitation with food will be significantly more costly.
Also, by evaluating retrieved samples of exposed terrestrial microbes and astronomical organic analogs on the exposure panels, they can investigate their survival and any alterations in the duration of interplanetary transport.
The UV-induced inactivation is mainly caused by photodamaging of the DNA, as documented by the identification of the spore photoproduct 5,6-dihydro-5(α-thyminyl)thymine.
The film premiered in an online version at the international multimedia press center of MIA "Rossiya Segodnya." The film later had a wide release in Russia on 24 September 2020.
Over 20 different coat colors occur in the Mongolian gerbil, which has been captive-bred the longest.
tardigradum is difficult to analyze due to the difficulty in taxonomy and the lack of sufficient data.
It included the line, "Does a monkey know he's sitting on top of a rocket that might explode?" which made him wonder what happened if the monkey knew.
Also on the program was Disneyland, U.S.A., a live stage show co-produced by the Disney team that featured elements and characters from the famed theme park in Anaheim, California.
Once at home, Buddha gives Sam a Moon rock he had taken from his journey, fulfilling his wish of touching the Moon.
Finally, on 18 October 1963, the cat Félicette made a suborbital flight as part of the French space program, returned alive, and was sacrificed after two months for an autopsy and study of her brain.
alpigenum was first suggested to be an independent species by Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg in 1853.
Accolades Adaptations From street dogs, the famous dogs Belka and Strelka have captured the public imagination ever since their space exploration in 1960.
Positions International Space Station positions See also NASA Astronaut Groups – the phases of astronaut selection Notes References External links Shuttle Commander and Pilot definitions Shuttle PLC, MS, and PS definitions
These burrows can be as deep as 2 meters (6 ft 7 in), where it retreats during the midday heat and at night, only emerging to forage at dawn or dusk when temperatures drop.
The Amazing World of Gumball alumni James Hamilton served as co-developer and head writer of the series.
In the past short-term rodent experiments transported to space on various vehicle including the Space Shuttle.
They are popular because of their ease of propagation, low water requirements, and wide variety of flower colors typically borne in clusters well above the leaves.
Technical details Operated by a 160 kN thrust engine using a combination of nitric acid and turpentine as propellants, the Vesta rocket was 10.2 meters tall with a diameter of 1 meter.
The Vesta sounding rocket, conceived in 1962 by the Laboratoire de Recherches Balistiques et Aérodynamiques (LRBA), a specialized French Army research facility focused on liquid-propelled rocket development.
diadematus has a holarctic distribution throughout Europe and across North America, from southern Canada to Mexico, and from British Columbia to Newfoundland.
Water is important for all species; the tortoise, being an arid species, will typically get water from their food, but they still need a constant supply.
He was part of the first six Soviet citizens, with German Titov, Yevgeny Khrunov, Andriyan Nikolayev, Pavel Popovich, and Grigoriy Nelyubov, who were given the title of pilot-cosmonaut in January 1961.
This spaceflight of record-breaking duration was not surpassed by humans until Soyuz 11 in 1971 and still stands as the longest space flight by dogs.
Martine became the first monkey to survive more than a couple of hours after flying above the international definition of the edge of space.
Taxonomic ambiguity The type specimen Rahm used as the basis of his description has either been lost or it was never preserved in the first place, which Grothman et al.
Some of these were planted alongside their Earth-bound counterparts, which were specifically set aside as controls.
During the mating season, though, the adult males become fatter, excited, aggressive, and highly vocal and spend most of their time engaging in dominance interactions among themselves or following and approaching the adult females in estrus, in hopes of being able to mate with them.
Dawson Griffen as Puppy Ed David Lopez as Chonies, a chihuahua who is the Pluto's med/tech officer and a yes-man.
Varieties In addition to the term mizuna (and its alternates) being applied to at least two different species of Brassica, horticulturalists have defined and named a number of varieties.
These benefits make mealworms attractive for mass rearing, a technique that promotes disease transmission within the colonies.
A population Viability Analysis (PVA) for crab-eating macaques revealed that the presence and absence of females in a population are key to its short and long term viability.
The mission sparked a debate across the globe on the mistreatment of animals and animal testing in general to advance science.
It has been described as possessing swollen, orange-yellow thalli (in streams), compact orange thalli (on boulders) or dark orange-red thalli on the driest rock faces.
It is possible to classify these microorganisms into two groups, the human-borne and the extremophiles.
This species was described in 1937 by German zoologist Gilbert Rahm from a hot spring near Nagasaki, Japan.
Edible turnips were possibly first cultivated in northern Europe, and were an important food in ancient Rome.
On 18 October 1963 at 8:09 am, C 341 was launched into space from the Centre interarmées d'essais d'engins spéciaux site in Algeria.
At the height of the Cold War, there was a real concern that the Soviets might actually beat NASA to the Moon.
Male tilapia are preferred in aquaculture as they grow faster and have a more uniform adult size than females.
Ono and colleagues suggested that tardigrades might be able to survive a journey through space on a meteorite, enabling panspermia, the transfer of life from one planet to another.
This poikilohydric strategy enables it to withstand prolonged dry periods, although growth and reproduction are largely confined to humid conditions.
Two electrodes were glued to a foreleg so electrical impulses could be used to stimulate them during the flight.
What was considered unnatural for the newborn cockroaches was that their carapace had darkened in colour much earlier, in comparison with natural-condition cockroaches who develop that darker tone later in their life cycle.
Some advantages of the species included their small size, ease of maintenance in an isolated state (requiring no drinking water for the expected duration of the mission and producing highly concentrated waste), and their proven capability of withstanding environmental stress.
Back on Earth, more than 68% of the subjects protected from ultraviolet were reanimated by rehydration, and many produced viable embryos.
Complicating matters further, the type locality from which Rahm collected his specimen may have been destroyed by an earthquake and subsequent searches for additional specimens matching the original description have been unsuccessful.
The only explanation found in earlier experiments for this ability was that their lowered water state provides fewer reactants for ionizing radiation.
The screenplay took a satirical view of the United States government, with someone chiding a politician with "Didn't you read our 'Simple Science for Senators?'" The same character types Disney deified in their earlier Man in Space series were now gently made fun of in the film.
The third is collecting lunar samples from the near-side and sending them to Earth, a task Chang'e 5 completed in 2020, and Chang'e 6 that completed in 2024.
The experiment included samples of Chroococcidiopsis that were exposed to simulated Martian atmosphere, UVC radiation and temperature extremes.
Biosatellite 2 carried thirteen biological experiments involving insects, frog eggs, plants and microorganisms.
Fe, Fi, Fo, Fum, and Phooey had been implanted with radiation monitors under their scalps to see whether they would suffer damage from cosmic rays.
Jönsson in 2007, and then other researchers such as Daiki Horikawa in 2008 and Roberto Guidetti in 2012, to present evidence that they would resist desiccation, radiation, heat, and cold, suiting them for astrobiological studies.
The foundation sponsors and hosts ceremonies to plant new trees, with seeds produced by the original generation of trees that grew from the seeds carried by Roosa in 1971.
After reaching orbit, Sputnik 2's nose cone was jettisoned successfully; however, the "Block A" core did not separate as planned, preventing the thermal control system from operating correctly.
It is sometimes called the pumpkin spider, although this name is also used for a different species, Araneus marmoreus.
In 2011, an article in Wired magazine described the effort, and provided Williams' email address, encouraging anyone to write who might have data on existing Moon trees.
The lichen is often found near highways and on trees growing along drainage ditches that receive runoff from fertilized fields, further supporting the role of anthropogenic nutrient enrichment in its inland establishment.
This adaptability enables its survival in this region, where it is exposed to fluctuating moisture levels due to drying cycles of meltwater-soaked thalli.
Release One Small Step: The Story of the Space Chimps is a documentary that screened in over 20 film festivals including the Maryland Film Festival, the Vancouver International Film Festival, and the Hot Springs Documentary Film Festival, before airing on television and being released on DVD.
When there was a third challenge implantation in the same males, there was a lower encapsulation rate of the nylon implants in more attractive males than the less attractive, showing that the males made no attempts to boost their immune system.
parietina thalli border upon other lichens such as Physcia species, neither distinctly overgrows the other, but rather their marginal lobes intermingle.
Other background lines less-often cited in the scientific literature are Ws, or Wassilewskija, C24, Cvi, or Cape Verde Islands, Nossen, etc.
Mike, along with his friends Marty and Amy and Marty's pet iguana Igor, tries to sneak inside the launch area, but Marty gets caught after being attacked by alligators in the marshes surrounding Kennedy Space Center Launch Complex 39.
The pin is issued in two grades, silver and gold, with the silver pin awarded to candidates who have successfully completed astronaut training and the gold pin to astronauts who have flown in space.
They are used to research the effects of space (cosmic radiation, weightlessness, etc.) on biological matter while in orbit around a celestial body.
Gibson has stated that he came up with the name "Max Q" (though recognizes that Shaw has also claimed having come up with the name himself) as a reference to the engineering term for the maximum dynamic pressure from the atmosphere experienced by an ascending spacecraft.
The first two launches primarily served as validation tests for the rocket's operation, whereas the subsequent three carried out scientific experiments.
The Russian Academy of Sciences stated that a mannequin equipped with radiation sensors occupied the pilot's seat.
rapa was one of the earliest domesticated brassicas, with turnip-like forms arising first and additional morphotypes developing independently across Eurasia.
Texan billionaire Richard Carson III wants to claim ownership of the Moon in order to mine its vast resources of Helium-3.
The project is developed through collaboration between the University of Leicester and the University of Exeter.
The results also demonstrate the protective effect of meteorite powder, which reemphasizes the importance of exogenic contribution to the inventory of prebiotic organics on early Earth.
The film also recounts the stories of many early primate missions including those of Able and Baker, and Gordo.
'Belka and Strelka: Caribbean Mystery') also known as Space Dogs: Tropical Adventure is a 2020 Russian 3D animated comedy fantasy family film written by Danil Trotensko, Artem Milovanov, Mike Disa, Olga Nikiforova, Viktor Strelchencko and directed by Inna Evlannikova.
This form of dominance interaction, as well as several types of aggression, increase during the mating season when males want to emphasize their rank and strength and gain more control over other males in relation to access to females.
For his leading man, Disney chose Tom Tryon, who had been starring in Texas John Slaughter on television, but for the space female Disney chose Dany Saval, then touted as the "new Brigitte Bardot" for her American debut.
There now exist colonies of mice derived from the original C57BL/6 colony that have been bred in isolation from one another for many hundreds of generations.
Kalanchoe ceratophylla and Kalanchoe laciniata are both called 伽蓝菜 (apparently "Buddhist monastery [samghārāma] herb") in China.
annulatus is for the male to place the sperm under the female's cuticle; when she moults, she lays eggs into the cast cuticle, where they are fertilised.
The possibility of overheating during atmospheric re-entry was acknowledged early during the development, therefore, a quite massive heat shield was designed for it.
He studied fifteen different types of fruit flies, including the fruit fly most widely known, the Drosophila melanogaster.
The Tactopoda hypothesis holds that Tardigrada are sister to Arthropoda; the Antennopoda hypothesis is that Tardigrada are sister to (Onychophora + Arthropoda); and the Lobopodia (sensu Smith & Goldstein 2017) hypothesis is that Tardigrada are sister to Onychophora.
The chamber, with the return speed estimated at 1,800 m/s, would initially be rescued by two 4.5 m 2 {\displaystyle 4.5m^{2}} air braking devices, and would be followed by a 68 kg parachute developed by the Army Air Ground Division Core, open at an altitude of 5,000 meters, all in an automatic way.
The financial implications of such damage is estimated at approximately USD$200,000 in agriculture and USD$150,000 in horticulture.
One of the most well known examples of experiments on crab-eating macaques is the 1981 Silver Spring monkeys case.
Hormones and pheromones released with urine by the fish often affect the behavior and physiology of the opposite sex.
Taxonomy and evolution The first known mention of gerbils came in 1866, by Father Armand David, who sent "yellow rats" to the French National Museum of Natural History in Paris, from northern China.
The bacteria were launched as dried spores and revived at different times during the mission with a nutrient-filled fluid a few days, three months and six months after launch.
But mealworm farming presents many challenges, including machinery clogging caused by the extremely fatty Tenebrio molitor larvae, as noted in the industrial-scale operations of Ynsect.
Tardigrades possess a cold shock protein; Maria Kamilari and colleagues propose (2019) that this may serve "as a RNA-chaperone involved in regulation of translation [of RNA code to proteins] following freezing." Tardigrade DNA is protected from radiation by the Dsup ("damage suppressor") protein.
Four monkeys flew aboard the last Bion flights of the Soviet Union as well as frogs and fruit flies.
During the Voskhod program, two Soviet space dogs, Veterok (Ветерок, Little Wind) and Ugolyok (Уголёк, Blackie), were launched on 22 February 1966, on board Cosmos 110 and spent 22 days in orbit before landing on 16 March.
Reception Box office AIP made the film hoping that military comedies would provide them with a genre as popular as the beach party movies but it proved a commercial disappointment, Samuel Z Arkoff claiming it "bombed out".
The largest, Kalanchoe beharensis from Madagascar, can reach 6 m (20 ft) tall, but most species are less than 1 m (3 ft) tall.
The mission was a prototype for the "Living Interplanetary Flight Experiment" (LIFE) which was to have travelled to the Martian moon Phobos on the Russian Fobos-Grunt spacecraft.
The dogs, while on the Moon, meet a ferret named Gravity who is their mission control assistant, but since their only communication is from audio, they don't know she is a ferret.
They concluded that microgravity and cosmic radiation "did not significantly affect survival of tardigrades in flight" and that tardigrades were useful in space research, with implications for astrobiology, where they should be suitable model organisms.
Nadezhda (Russian: Надежда, Hope) was a cockroach that was sent into space during the Foton-M 3 bio-satellite flight between September 14 and 26, 2007 by Russian scientists.
Originally they planned for the rocket to reach the 300 km mark, but this was abandoned due to difficulties in the calculations.
Eventually, after his rocket is launched, Lyrae appears by his side and convinces him to visit her planet with her.
Before the film came out, plans for a sequel (never actually produced) were announced – Sergeant Deadhead Goes to Mars, meant to start 13 April 1966.
"He gave us details of what it was like to step on the Moon, how to get there in the last phases ...
To test their hardiness on a hypothetical mission to Mars, spores of Bacillus subtilis 168 and Bacillus pumilus SAFR-032 were exposed for 1.5 years to selected parameters of space.
Earlier experiments attributed this to their lowered water content, providing fewer reactants for ionizing radiation.
The film received generally negative reviews from critics and was a box office disappointment, only grossing $41.7 million against a $25 million budget.
It was launched on December 14, 1966, by a Delta G rocket from Launch Complex 17A of the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.
This suggests that nucleotide excision repair of accumulated DNA damages contributed to the recovery.
When spores were exposed to the vacuum of space, but shielded from solar radiation, their survivability was substantially increased if they were exposed in multilayers and/or in the presence of glucose.
Mission status In the fall of 2011, nearly 100,000 beacon packets have been submitted by amateurs in 20 countries.
It is a holiday resort with floral plants on display, especially aquatic species, and other recreational facilities.
The lichen is used as a model system to study the potential to resist extreme environments of outer space.
Therefore, culture growth and metabolic activity of yeast cells directly indicate successful repair of DNA damage.
Others tested how organic molecules react when subjected for a prolonged period of time to unfiltered solar light.
In 2007, dehydrated tardigrades were taken on the FOTON-M3 mission and exposed to vacuum, or to both vacuum and solar ultraviolet, for 10 days.
More specialised habitats include hot springs and as parasites or commensals of marine invertebrates.
The system was launched on 11 November 2026 on a cargo flight Cygnus NG-24 to the International Space Station (ISS) on April 2026.
and Scooter, build a "fly-sized" rocket in a field across from Cape Canaveral, Florida, where Apollo 11 sits on the Kennedy Space Center Launch Complex 39.
Mizuna (ミズナ(水菜), "water greens"), kyouna (京菜), Japanese mustard greens, or spider mustard is a cultivar of Brassica rapa var.
Roots are simple in structure, with a single primary root that grows vertically downward, later producing smaller lateral roots.
elegans has survived an 18-month exposure to solar UV radiation, cosmic rays, vacuum and varying temperatures in an experiment performed by the ESA outside of the ISS.
Commercial growers incorporate a juvenile hormone into the feeding process to keep the mealworm in the larval stage and achieve an abnormal length of 2 cm or greater.
France concluded biological payload research at the national level with these flights but later worked on biological payloads with the Soviet Union in the 1970s.
Hypsibius bakonyiensis Iharos, 1964, Hypsibius sattleri (Richters, 1902), Isohypsibius bakonyiensis (Iharos, 1964), Macrobiotus sattleri Richters, 1902 Genus Ramazzottius: Ramazzottius szeptycki (Dastych, 1980), syn.
In 2017, Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa) grown in the International Space Station was eaten by the crew, as well as saving some for study after return to Earth.
Monkeys and non-human apes from several species were used, including rhesus macaque, crab-eating macaque, squirrel monkeys, pig-tailed macaques, and chimpanzees.
Results and future plans High-quality photographs of the Earth, the first photos of their kind, were taken at a distance of 90,000 kilometres (56,000 mi).
Mars colonization Due to its resistance to harsh environmental conditions, especially low temperature, low moisture, and radiation tolerance, Chroococcidiopsis has been thought of as an organism capable of living on Mars.
The Soviet space program typically used female dogs due to their anatomical compatibility with the spacesuit.
Spores of different strains of Bacillus subtilis and the Escherichia coli plasmid pUC19 were exposed to selected conditions of space (space vacuum and/or defined wavebands and intensities of solar ultraviolet radiation).
Damage protection proteins Tardigrades' ability to remain desiccated for long periods of time was thought to depend on high levels of the sugar trehalose, common in organisms that survive desiccation.
Reproductive cycle During sexual reproduction the female lays at most 12 eggs as it sheds it skin, the eggs are then left in the cuticle.
Gallery References Bibliography External links Media related to Kalanchoe at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Kalanchoe at Wikispecies
Results Spectra from the PAH thin film in a water-vapor-containing microenvironment indicate measurable change due to solar irradiation in orbit, while three other nominally water-free microenvironments show no appreciable change.
They decide to hide in the school bus which soon arrives at the Vision Enterprises, and the dogs go to a space suit machine and put on space suits before following the students, who are being led by Dr.
Eight ships were deployed to the Indian Ocean prior to launch, as a precaution in case the spacecraft could not reach Soviet territory; only three of them had rescue helicopters on board.
However, due to the threat they pose to indigenous ecosystems and existing agricultural operations, it is illegal to purchase, import, or keep a gerbil as a pet in the U.S.
They lack several of the Hox genes found in arthropods, and the middle region of the body corresponding to an arthropod's thorax and abdomen.
Diseases Traditional medicine In traditional medicine, Kalanchoe species have been used to treat ailments such as infections, rheumatism and inflammation.
While technology advances, the fruit fly is continually used in preliminary research regarding space travel and organisms.
After initial training, cosmonauts are assigned as either a test cosmonaut (Russian: космонавт испытатель, romanized: kosmonavt ispytatel) or a research cosmonaut (Russian: космонавт исследователь, romanized: kosmonavt issledovatel).
It was launched 31 July 1992 by the STS-46 - Space Shuttle Atlantis and put into orbit at an altitude of 508 km.
2020s and ongoing With the technological advancements that exist today, space-like conditions can be replicated on Earth.
The term "cinnamon basil" can refer to a number of different varieties of basil, including as a synonym for Thai basil (O.
They are widely used in space biology due to its genetic simplicity and well-characterised physiology.
There are no predators on the island, and humans are not permitted to land, except as part of the research program.
Beneath the medulla, there is a basal layer, approximately 15 μm thick, of compact dark brown cells that elongate upward and merge with the medullary hyphae.
However, subsequent research found that tardigrades, when hydrated, still remain highly resistant to shortwave UV radiation in comparison to other animals, and that one factor for this is their ability to efficiently repair damage to their DNA resulting from that exposure.
As the astronauts appear on camera, the heroic flies wave in the background, visible to other flies but barely seen by humans – except for the attentive NASA flight controller Steve Bales, who informs Armstrong of the "contaminants" on board.
Space Cinnamon basil was taken into space by the Space Shuttle Endeavour during STS-118 and grown in an experiment in low Earth orbit on the International Space Station.
The Véronique rocket came from the German World War II Aggregate rocket family, developed for International Geophysical Year (French: Année géophysique internationale) in 1957 for biological research.
References Further reading da Nóbrega Alves, Rômulo Romeu; da Silva Vieira, Washington Luiz; Santana, Gindomar Gomes (July 2008).
In 2015 C57BL/6NTac females provided by Taconic Biosciences were sent to the International Space Station on SpaceX CRS-6.
We shouldn't have done it [...] We did not learn enough from this mission to justify the death of the dog.
The maneuver was performed 325,000 kilometres (202,000 mi) from Earth using the Sun and the Earth as reference points.
Tardigrades ( ), also known as water bears or moss piglets, are a phylum of eight-legged segmented micro-animals.
Since the turnip had been named first by Linnaeus, the name Brassica rapa was assigned to the plant in his work Species Plantarum.
UV and desiccation resistance Biofilms of Chroococcidiopsis were exposed to Mars-like UV-flux and desiccation for up to seven years.
A rhesus macaque called Scatback flew a sub-orbital flight on December 20, 1961, but was lost at sea after landing.
Neither the media, books in the following years, nor the public openly questioned the decision to send a dog into space.
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate a novel therapeutic drug delivery chip in microgravity.
The mission, designed and performed by Japan, used ultra-low density silica gel (aerogel) to collect cosmic dust by, which is being analyzed for amino acid-related compounds and microorganisms following their return to Earth.
ADAPT Bacterial endospores of the highly UV-resistant Bacillus subtilis strain MW01 were exposed to low Earth orbit and simulated Martian surface conditions for 559 days.
The biggest challenge for the riggers - those in charge of giving movement to the characters - was the design of Igor, the chameleon that accompanies the children on their adventure, along with the application of various mechanical gadgets in his backbox.
Despite the film's postponement due to COVID-19, the film coincidentally managed to release just one month after the 60th anniversary of the historic flight into space by the famous Soviet dogs Belka and Strelka.
See also Animals in space Monkeys and apes in space References External links One Small Step: The Story of the Space Chimps at IMDb One Small Step: The Story of the Space Chimps Official Documentary Site 28, 2003/chimps-0322.html Review of Space Chimps Documentary
Thus it is predicted that these species do breed, but are unable to produce viable offspring due to post-zygotic factors.
These experiments will test some aspects of panspermia, a hypothesis for an exogenesis origin of life distributed by meteoroids, asteroids, comets and cosmic dust.
A dominant individual threatens another individual by standing quadrupedally and making a silent "open mouth stare" accompanied by the tail sticking straight.
Aggression amongst males usually involve a typical sequence of visual, acoustic, and tactile signals that eventually escalates to physical confrontation if no resolution is reached.
They would be the first human landing on the Moon in more than 50 years, since the 1972 Apollo 17 mission.
(2017) suggest that Rahm might have observed and misinterpreted a species in the class Heterotardigrada, possibly belonging to the genus Carphania or Oreella.
Two yeast strains were selected for this mission: a wild type strain proficient in DNA repair, and a strain defective in the repair of DNA double strand breaks (DSBs), deleterious lesions generated by ionizing radiation.
Confounding circumstances unique to astronaut photography include that "being exo-atmospheric, the sun is a lot brighter" in space and thus photographers must adjust their cameras, and that the astronauts and the vistas tend to pass by each other quite quickly.
Though juveniles play and jump around an appreciable amount during phases of high activity, they usually stay close to the adult females.
The film ends with Spudnick back at home with his old owner, Sasha, who says that "it is the journey and friendship that matters the most".
Zond 7 carried four turtles, a follow-up to the September 1968 Zond 5 mission which carried two tortoises on a circumlunar lunar mission, and the November 1968 Zond 6 mission which also carried turtles.
Specialists called flight operations imagery instructors train NASA astronauts in photography technique at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, United States.
The article describing the conclusion of the contest stated that the species had "endured all five previous planetary extinction events".
After hydrogen peroxide treatment Dsup+ cells mainly activate the detoxification systems and the antioxidant enzymes that limit oxidative stress and eliminate oxidative free radicals, while DNA repair mechanisms are only marginally activated.
On 23 November 2022, John McFall was selected to be the first ESA parastronaut; he has rejected the use of the term.
It is often found on exposed to somewhat sheltered sites, often near bird or small-mammal droppings.
The purple membranes, amino acids and urea were not measurably affected by the dehydrating condition of open space, if sheltered from solar radiation.
They soon begin to get out of the Vision 1 and walk around the area within the place they had landed.
Description and use Possessing dark green, serrated leaves, mizuna is described as having, when raw, a "piquant, mild peppery flavor...slightly spicy, but less so than arugula." It is also used in stir-fries, soups, and nabemono (Japanese hot pot).
The new criteria states that one must have "[d]emonstrated activities during flight that were essential to public safety, or contributed to human space flight safety" to qualify as an astronaut.
Controversy Carlos Chagas Filho, when the experiment began to gain visibility in the media, renounced any renewed interest in sending a cat on the mission and the possibility of any scientific learning, besides citing that the acrylic capsule would face difficulties with drastic temperature changes.
The inability of taxonomists to replicate Rahm's finding has cast doubt on the accuracy of the description, making T.
Despite returning approximately a day early, its 45 hours of earth-orbital flight enabled valid conclusions to be made in the thirteen experiments on board, by comparing the onboard samples to earthbound control organisms.
In accordance with the plea agreement, he was sentenced to three concurrent terms of life in prison.
The lab reports were passed on by the Zimbabwe Republic Police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) through Interpol to the FBI, who subsequently visited Zimbabwe to interview Cotton and the pathologist in Bulawayo, Stanford Mathe.
Legal impact Cullen moved from facility to facility undetected mainly because of the lack of requirements to report suspicious behavior by medical workers and inadequate legal obligations on employers.
Petrov was sentenced to life imprisonment and is suspected to have killed up to 19 people until his arrest.
He confessed to five murders of which he was convicted of four, but is suspected of committing up to 131 in total.
Trial and imprisonment At the first trial, the prosecution held Leonardo Cazzaniga responsible for all the deaths that occurred at the Saronno Hospital.
Motives Cullen stated that he had overdosed patients to spare them from going into cardiac or respiratory arrest and being listed as a Code Blue emergency.
Murders Petrov committed his first murder on 2 February 1999 during his thirtieth robbery, when he was interrupted by the daughter of an anaesthetised patient who returned home while he was stealing.
On June 4, 1977, Lee's husband, John Henry, died after he had begun experiencing wracking pains in his stomach and chest along with vomiting and diarrhea.
Biography At fifteen, Caleffi began to suffer from depression and anorexia nervosa, but at school, she remained a very quiet girl, with good performance in school.
After serving less than seven years of her life sentence, Blauensteiner died from a brain tumour on 18 November 2003, in a Vienna hospital.
At first, they were at a loss to prove that the bleach had indeed gone from the patients' dialysis lines into their bloodstreams.
A skeletonized corpse was discovered in May 1923 that was identified as his by officials who examined the remains at the time.
Police believe she killed a total of 17 and attempted 18 other murders, but she was convicted of only seven.
The coroner questioned Adams's treatment and in his summing up said that it was "extraordinary that the doctor, knowing the past history of the patient" did not "at once suspect barbiturate poisoning".
In 2008, the Justice Ministry in Austria announced that it would release Wagner and Leidolf from prison due to good behaviour.
Wood was incarcerated in the minimum security Federal Correctional Institution, Tallahassee in Florida; she was released January 16, 2020 and is expected to live with relatives in South Carolina.
She was also known as "The Ogress of Colonia Roma," "The Female Ripper of Colonia Roma" and "The Human Crusher of Little Angels." Early life She was born in 1890 in Cerro Azul, Veracruz to a mother who was not affectionate towards her.
According to an August 2017 statement by the director of the special commission "Kardio", the "provable Oldenburg and Delmenhorst homicides [...] were only the tip of the iceberg".
Murders Hahn allegedly began poisoning and robbing elderly men in Cincinnati's German community to support her gambling habit.
Witness and expert testimonies Out of the thirty-two witnesses present at the trial, eight testified under oath.
An initial indictment was issued in 2017, expanded in 2019 and then in 2022, covering a total of thirty cases, including twelve fatalities.
Mongar." The seven other murder charges are all of first-degree murder; they relate to babies, whom staff have testified they saw move or cry after complete birth, and whose deaths are alleged to have resulted from subsequent lethal action.
The funeral home added the cost of the bribes it paid to the killers to the bills that the families of the deceased paid for their funerals.
Because of the publicity surrounding Adams's committal hearing, the law was changed to allow defendants to ask for such hearings to be held in private.
He told a television reporter prior to his trial, "I don't regret what I did", adding "I did it to those in irreversible comas and whose families were suffering." He was convicted on February 21, 2000, of the murders of four patients and sentenced to 76 years in prison.
The Malmö Östra hospital murders were a Swedish case of serial senicide committed by the 18-year-old Anders Hansson at a hospital in Malmö between October 1978 and January 1979.
Fifer had commuted his sentence after Cream's brother pleaded for leniency and allegedly bribed the authorities.
The medical records of these patients showed that the Pavulon found in their bodies was not prescribed to them by a medical professional.
Angel of Death: The Donald Harvey Story archived from <crimelibrary> CBS News: "Serial killer known as the "Angel of Death" found severely beaten in prison", cbsnews.com.
It is thought that Bueno committed his crimes so that he could be the first to notice a problem with a patient, thereby earning the respect and admiration of his co-workers.
At the time of the interview, Takeshi was already dead and Ishikawa was operating a real estate office in Tokyo, and she boasted about having built a big tomb for herself two years before.
Cullen had killed at least 13 patients and attempted to kill at least one more by mid-2003, using digoxin, insulin, and epinephrine.
The aides were caught after a doctor overheard them bragging about their latest murder at a local tavern.
Maria Gruber, Irene Leidolf, Stephanija Meyer, and Waltraud Wagner were four Austrian women who worked as nurse's aides at the Geriatriezentrum am Wienerwald in Lainz, Vienna, and who murdered scores of patients between 1983 and 1989.
He declined to pay his $50,000 bail, fearing for his safety given the high-profile nature of the case.
While examining her home, the gendarmes found the marked korona paid for the poison provided by Palinkás.
Crimes Gifford was renowned in her community for her cooking skills and caring for sick neighbors and relatives.
The main murderer of Brigadier Mukhtar and Reza Shah himself." See also Amir Abdollah Tahmasebi Abdolhossein Teymourtash Mahmud Khan Puladeen Colonel Pessian External links ايران در سه قرن گذشته (Iran in the Last Three Centuries) by Alireza Avsati.
Semi-conscious women scheduled for abortions were moaning in the waiting room or the recovery room, where they sat on dirty recliners covered with blood-stained blankets.
Mays was fired from the hospital in June 2018, and the investigation was turned over to the Inspector General for the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Crimes On 7 March 1997, Blauensteiner was found guilty of murdering 77-year-old Alois Pichler and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Palinkás refused, and instead informed the gendarmes in Kistelek, who were already keeping tabs on the suspicious old woman.
The Besançon poisonings was a French legal case resulting in the conviction of French anesthesiologist Frédéric Péchier to a life sentence for intentionally poisoning 30 patients and killing 12.
The killings were carried out in Toppan's capacity as a nurse, targeting patients and their family members.
See also List of serial killers by country List of serial killers by number of victims == References ==
They indicated that the perpetrator would not have stopped killing if they would have been detained.
Prosecutor Raúl Garzón labelled the case as "enormously grave" but initially insisted that they could have been either cases of malpractice or hospital-acquired infections, and no accusations were made.
In 1955, Fikáčková graduated from the medical school in Klatovy, and in 1957 she began working as a nurse in the obstetrics department of the hospital in Sušice.
See also Dr John Bodkin Adams Dr Harold Shipman General: List of homicides in Michigan List of serial killers in the United States References External links Doctors who killed Witnesses Open Homicide Case Against Doctor Fall Kills Dr.
He was charged with 25 counts of homicide but later retracted his confession and denied all charges for the rest of his five-month trial.
The common thought in Edinburgh was that he was culpable in the events; he was lampooned in caricature and, in February 1829, a crowd gathered outside his house and burned an effigy of him.
Felícitas Sánchez Aguillón or Sánchez Neyra (1890 – June 16, 1941) was a Mexican nurse, midwife, baby farmer and serial killer, active during the 1930s in Mexico City, who killed babies in her care.
The details of the murders came almost entirely from accounts to criminal justice authorities by Wood, whose murder charges were reduced by a plea agreement so she could testify against Graham in Graham's trial for first-degree murder.
Trial Malèvre went on trial in Versailles on 20 January 2003 on charges of murdering seven gravely ill patients between 1997 and 1998.
She became eligible for release on parole after her minimum tariff of 30 years' imprisonment expired in November 2021.
On 7 May 1998, Francis Henry, 83, was transported to the Lehigh Valley Hospital after choking on his own vomit.
Non-legislative actions resulting from the case In February 2011, Governor Tom Corbett fired six employees and commenced action to fire eight others where, for legal or contractual reasons, more extensive dismissal procedures were required.
Toppan is often considered an "angel of mercy", a type of serial killer who takes on a caretaker role and attacks the vulnerable and dependent, though she also murdered for seemingly more personal reasons, such as in the case of the Davis family.
for $1,000 that she borrowed from him, but after his death, the document was either discarded or simply "disappeared".
Although she was only convicted of a total of three murders, Austrian police believe that she may have murdered at least 10 people.
During the trial, Wood plea-bargained her way to a reduced sentence, claiming that it was Graham who planned and carried out the killings while she served as a lookout or distracted supervisors.
Agüero later accused a colleague of hers of the deaths, saying that this male nurse was present where the deaths occurred "all the time".
February 15: The Kanagawa Prefectural Police arrest Imai, after he made statements incriminating himself.
See also Anders Hansson, a nursing aide who committed similar murders at a nursing home in Malmö, Sweden, during roughly the same time.
Hansson poisoned elderly patients during his working hours as an orderly with the detergents Gevisol and Ivisol.
Angels of death: The Male Nurses -- Farther East (in Japanese) Timeline Japan Institute of Constitutional Law Data base of wrongful convictions in Japan Newspaper articles, chronology and present status of the appeal is available at: http://www.jiadep.org/Hokuriku_Clinic.html
Trial Confessions and exhumations In the days following her arrest, when she was brought to justice in the Jutjat d'instrucció of Olot, Vila confessed to killing the last three victims.
Three patients' deaths – two elderly men, George Keep, 84 and Arnold Lancaster, 71, and a woman, Tracey Arden, 44 – were attributed to the alleged contamination, although it was also reported that each of the patients also had underlying medical conditions that made them weaker.
Arnfinn Nesset (25 October 1936 – 2 December 2025) was a Norwegian nurse and nursing home manager who was a convicted serial killer.
London Using money inherited from his father, who had died in 1887, Cream sailed for England, arriving in Liverpool on 1 October 1891 (three years after the Jack the Ripper killings had been committed).
The inquiry recommended the introduction of 'student practice passports', which would report on the personality and integrity of students while they trained as medical professionals at university.
In October of that year, Swango was arrested by the Quincy Police Department after arsenic and other poisons were found in his possession.
His lawyer has been quoted as saying that Zelenka may have killed on an impulse to "test" doctors in Havlíčkův Brod, in the belief they were not good enough to discover the truth.
Murders Her first victim was her mother Johanna, in 1880; not long thereafter, she poisoned her father, Clemens.
Fearing he had discovered that she had been forging checks on his account, Barfield mixed an arsenic-based rat poison into his beer and tea.
When the victim was injected, their brain cells would cease to function properly, altering their breathing and heart rhythm and leading them into a coma.
Suspicions were raised about an additional twelve deaths after the grand jury investigation of the five deaths.
Then I would close the orifices of the body with cotton, stuffing it in the ears, nostrils, and so on.
The evidence against her overwhelmed her claims, however, and in turn, Mária Gerzsány was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder and complicity in murder, and sent to serve her sentence at the Márianosztra prison in 1912.
She was charged with three counts of murder and 19 counts of attempted murder.Authorities also linked her to the deaths of 17 patients.
His defense pointed out this contradiction on the high court, but the high court in Sendai upheld the original sentence on March 22, 2006.
See also List of serial killers in the United States List of serial killers active in the 2020s == References ==
The prosecution of Narciso and Perez for the murders became a focal point for many protest groups and Filipinos, who united in their condemnation of the handling of the case and expressed support for both nurses.
While most Austrians opposed capital punishment, many felt that the woman had not served enough time in prison for their crimes.
After consulting with the pharmacist, and tracing that all of the deaths occurred during one particular shift, Norris ordered that the cabinets with Mivacron be locked up and accessed only by the supervisors, and that the police should be immediately notified.
At around 9:00 pm the Grays returned briefly to collect some clothing for their children, and saw Burke, Hare, their wives and Docherty all drunk, singing and dancing.
On 6 December 2007, Mr Justice Stanley Burnton, sitting in the High Court of Justice, London, ordered Allitt to serve the original minimum sentence of 30 years.
She later met a radiologist and went to live with him in Tavernerio, where she finished her job in a state of reclusion at home.
Mr Justice Openshaw sentenced Chua, a Filipino national, to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 35 years, meaning he will be 84 years old when he becomes eligible for parole.
He stabbed the daughter with a screwdriver and then strangled the unconscious patient with a stocking.
In addition to Cazzaniga and Taroni, police also investigated five other employees at the hospital (general manager Paolo Valentini; medical director Roberto Cosentina; medical examiner Maria Luisa Pennuto; ER director Nicola Scoppetta and oncologist Giuseppe di Luca).
Norris to contact a pharmacist about a discrepancy he had taken note of: during this period, vials of Mivacron had been going missing, which was initially ascribed to inventory mismanagement, as it was not considered a lethal substance.
At the inquest into Matilda Clover's death that was held by Athelstan Braxton Hicks in July 1892, he read out a letter signed by Jack the Ripper, declaring "Dr Neill" innocent, which produced laughter, including from "Neill".
Nykopp-Koski was tried in Helsinki District Court in December 2010 and pleaded not guilty, though the court convicted her.
After seeing that she was disoriented and had difficulty breathing, Vila went to the supply closet and filled a syringe with laundry detergent, which she then injected directly into the woman's mouth.
His charges included 16 counts of murder, 12 counts of manslaughter and one count of killing on request.
The non-murder charges included 24 counts of violating Pennsylvania's Abortion Act by performing illegal third-trimester abortions, 227 counts of violating a 24-hour waiting-period requirement, failing to counsel patients, and racketeering.
Victorino Chua On 5 January 2012, it was revealed that a death had occurred on 31 December 2011, after Leighton had been dismissed, and was now being linked to the investigation.
According to one theory, she showed symptoms of a factitious disorder also known as Munchausen syndrome by proxy.
It has been reported that Gosnell spent four decades practicing medicine among the poor, including a teen-aid program and opening the Mantua Halfway House, a rehab clinic for drug addicts in the impoverished Mantua neighborhood of West Philadelphia.
Adams paid the cheque into his account the next day, and on being told that it would clear by the 21st, asked for it to be specially cleared – to arrive in his account the next day.
On May 2, 2024, she was sentenced to three consecutive life terms, along with 380 to 760 additional years.
In 2014, prosecutors claimed Högel acted out of boredom and the desire to show off his resuscitation skills.
The forms needed for a cremation in England and Wales have had their questions altered as a direct result of the Shipman case.
Doctor Janusz Kuliński was sentenced to six years and banned from practising medicine for 10 years, for willfully endangering 10 patients.
The publicity for the film described "A demented nun sliding through morphine addiction into madness, whilst presiding over a regime of lesbianism, torture and death.
See also List of serial killers by country Baba Anujka The True Crime Podcast In Search of Lost Crime did an episode on Goeie Mie References Footnotes === Bibliography ===
During this period, according to Shipman's cellmate, he received a letter from Primrose exhorting him to "Tell me everything, no matter what." A 2005 inquiry found that Shipman's suicide "could not have been predicted or prevented", but that procedures should nonetheless be re-examined.
Judge Myron Duhart told Elliott, "No matter how bad a person is, that does not give you the right to be the judge, jury, and executioner." Prosecutors claimed that Elliott had targeted Harvey out of jealousy since he was receiving different meals at the prison because of his religion.
Shipman witnessed his mother's pain subside, despite her terminal condition, until her death on 21 June 1963.
Time magazine reported that Bombeek was finally apprehended through the efforts of fellow nuns who worked within the 38-bed geriatric ward and who recorded a string of mysterious deaths and other irregularities.
Becker, who was considered a dutiful nurse, had previously worked as a nurse in an intensive care unit for 35 years.
While examining the latter's body, medical personnel again found traces of blood and damage to her genitalia, but due to her advanced age and negligence on part of the staff, no autopsy was performed and the cause of death was ruled as a heart attack.
She had twin daughters with him but didn't want to take care of them, and suggested to her husband that they give them up for adoption.
See also List of French serial killers List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
The respiratory arrests were unexplained since none of the patients' conditions should have caused a respiratory arrest to occur.
During the mental health assessment, psychiatrists found out that Nykopp-Koski is psychopathic and has an antisocial personality disorder, but she was deemed culpable for her actions.
However, her only confirmed victims were Stanley Jagodowski, Henry Hudon, Kenneth Cutting, and Edward Skwira.
In January 2004, Jackson was charged with an additional six murders, and her bond raised from $2 million to $6 million.
An example of a malignant hero serial killer was Richard Angelo, who was called the "angel of death", or angel of mercy.
Pier Paolo Brega Massone is the former chief thoracic consultant at the Santa Rita medical clinic in Milan, Italy.
I can only say I’m sorry for the pain I caused them and my family." In addition to her sentence, Mays was ordered to pay $172,624.96 to the victims' families, the VA Hospital, Medicare, and insurance companies.
Agüero graduated as a nurse with excellent results in 2018 and moved to Córdoba, where she worked at a private hospital between 2019 and December 2020, when she resigned to keep her only job at the Ramón Castillo Neonatal Hospital.
Although originally charged with the lesser charge of manslaughter, Malèvre's charge was upgraded to murder, following a report stating that she had a “morbid fascination” with death and disease — patients were three to four times more likely to die during her duty periods.
The Swedish novelist Arne Dahl also used the events as an inspiration in his book A Midsummer Night's Dream (2003) See also List of serial killers by country References External links BBC report
On 2 December 2011, it was reported that Leighton had been dismissed from her job as a nurse at Stepping Hill Hospital.
On 16 May 2019, after 48 hours of prolonged police custody, the doctor was brought before the judge of liberties, who nevertheless decided not to place him in pre-trial detention.
On 9 April 2014, Brega Massone, was tried for 4 murders and 34 battery cases in a different trial, and was convicted to life sentence.
Clark was convicted on two manslaughter counts for the deaths of his assistants and sentenced to prison for a term of three to 15 years.
Petrov had been married twice and has three children, one from his first marriage and two from his second marriage.
The district attorney declined to prosecute Mors, finding him to be criminally insane, and committed him to the Hudson River State Hospital, pending deportation to Austria.
She incrementally leaked out her version of the homicides, portraying Graham as the mastermind and hands-on killer.
Closing arguments On March 1, 2018, the closing arguments were presented, with the prosecution demanding the death penalty for Imai.
Ahmad Ahmadi (Persian: احمد احمدی; 1885 – October 1944, known as Pezeshk Ahmadi meaning Physician Ahmadi) was an Iranian nurse.
The first two victims she was charged with murdering were James Bartoe, 55, and Joseph Campbell, 83.
His parents split up three months before his birth, with his father Kasper moving to Michigan while Feltner remained with his mother, Shirley.
Arrest Angelo first came to the attention of the public in October 1987 when he was suspected of poisoning a patient at then Good Samaritan Medical Center.
In January 2018, German prosecutors charged Högel with the murder of 97 patients and announced their intention to file charges against other hospital staff who failed to act.
After her release in 1916, she moved to Saint-Gilles in 1920 with her violent and abusive partner and began work as a private nurse.
Victims Carl Hitzel, 78, by administering morphine Henry Haensel, 67, by giving arsenic Carl Garf, 65, by giving arsenic Mrs.
Number of victims In his initial confession in 1998, Saldivar told police that he actively killed up to 50 patients and he contributed to the deaths of between 100 and 200 patients.
Eventually, Vila was hired by a small private nursing home in Banyoles, El Mirador de Banyoles, where she worked as a nursing assistant for about eight months.
He fled while they went to get the proper paper work but was caught near Port Austin, 125 miles north of Detroit.
But when medical examination failed to reveal physical evidence of homicide, not entirely unusual in a smothering case, the county medical examiner nevertheless ruled the deaths homicides, basing it on the interviews Wood had given to the police.
He obtained work as a respiratory therapist employed by the Glendale Adventist Medical Center, working the night shift when there were fewer staff on duty.
Heather Irene Pressdee (born August 28, 1982) is an American registered nurse and convicted serial killer.
His death mask and a book said to be bound with his tanned skin is on display at Surgeons' Hall Museum.
Nonetheless, it was another decade before OSU conceded it should have called in outside investigators.
After working there for three and a half years without incident, Vila began killing her patients in August 2009.
Mays offered no motive but claimed to be taking medication for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
During the interview, she readily admitted to infusing the bags of at least 20 patients with diamitol.
Daisuke Mori (守 大助, Mori Daisuke; born April 28, 1971) is a Japanese nurse, who was convicted for giving lethal doses of the muscle relaxant drug vecuronium to his patients in a clinic in Izumi-ku, Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture.
Homicides and investigation During a few months in 1975, patients at the VA hospital in Ann Arbor, Michigan, began suffering respiratory failure and sometimes died with extraordinary frequency.
Her father, George Filser, was a furniture manufacturer, and the family was considered to be well-off financially.
During his detention, Hooijmaijers confessed to killing 15 of his patients, but denied the remaining charges.
Thus, the remainder of the sentence can be suspended after serving 15 years (counting from her arrest in October 2006), i.e.
Investigators criticized the hospital for meeting them with "a wall of silence" as they attempted to look into a suspicious 1988 death.
After his release on November 19, Feltner moved to Daytona Beach, where he lived in an apartment above a bar on Main Street.
Andermatt was convicted on 28 January 2005, by the Lucerne Criminal Court for murder in 22 cases, attempted murder in three cases and unfinished murder in two cases with resignation and life imprisonment.
At the long-term care part of the hospital, a total of 27 patients were poisoned to death, with at least 11 confirmed victims.
Instead, the patients had to fill out a daunting five-page form, available only in English, that required them to reveal their identities upfront and be available to testify in Harrisburg.
Infanticide In the late 1940s, during the immediate postwar period, many babies were kept at Kotobuki San'in.
On July 28, she was charged with an additional murder concerning the death of another patient in September 2016, who died after the antiseptic solution was mixed in with his drip.
He worked as a nurse at Qasr Prison in Tehran, where he was ordered to kill political prisoners; he was later executed for these crimes.
Life Andermatt worked as a nurse in various retirement homes in central Switzerland, including the Eichhof retirement home in Lucerne.
In 2002, she worked in two different periods at the nursing home of Albese con Cassano, and in the department of psychiatry.
Smith, owner of the W H Smith bookstalls, accusing him of the murder and demanding money for his silence.
According to prosecutors, Gosnell's staff gave the 90-pound woman a lethal dose of anesthesia and painkillers during a 2009 abortion.
On the contrary, Hayato denied the claims, saying that he had no memory of being at the facility at the designated time frame.
"My mom is actually up for parole right now, but the victims' family members are appealing so it's taking a while for her to get out...but she's going to get out." She stayed on the air with Howard for about 10 minutes.
They described Wood as both a coercive and seductive pathological liar who delighted in wreaking havoc in the lives of others.
Finding these injuries highly suspicious, he refused to declare the cause of death as natural and insisted that he performed an autopsy on both bodies, which revealed that both women had been raped, with Borda being strangled and Alston suffocated to death.
On 15 May 2008 he was found guilty by judge Valéria Caldi on four counts of murder and four counts of attempted murder.
A week or two later one of McDougal's relatives, Ann Dougal (also given as McDougal) was visiting from Falkirk; after a few days the men killed her by their usual technique and received £10 for the body.
As of March 2025, Joyner is still alive and serving his prison sentence at the State Correctional Institution – Phoenix in Skippack Township.
The same professionals stated that these traits are "typical mechanisms of a psychopathic personality".
She and defense team attended an evidentiary hearing in 2015, seeking a new trial and a dismissal of writ, but no results have been reported of that endeavor.
Hayato Imai (今井 隼人, Imai Hayato; born 1991) is a Japanese serial killer who murdered three elderly people at a nursing home in Saiwai-ku, Kawasaki between November and December 2014.
Swanenburg was found guilty of having killed at least three victims, and she was sentenced to life imprisonment in a correctional facility, where she died in 1915.
At his sentencing hearing, Swango admitted to causing three murders, lying about his role in causing a fourth death, and lying about his 1985 conviction.
Mays was a longtime member of Monroe Chapel United Methodist, a small church approximately twenty minutes outside Clarksburg in Lost Creek.
In February 2008, Zelenka was convicted of killing seven patients and attempting to kill 10 others, and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Proving any such cases proved to be a difficult task, as neither the surviving victims or their family members wished to cooperate about the suspicious deaths, and their testimonies often proved inaccurate or contradictory.
Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter (D-PA) said, "I think it's quite clear that, if these allegations are true, we've had a monster living in our midst" while vowing to watch the city's remaining abortion clinics more closely.
She was arrested and imprisoned for fraud and theft in 1915 for stealing valuables and posing as injured men to receive funds.
Elfriede Martha Blauensteiner (22 January 1931 – 16 November 2003), dubbed The Black Widow, was an Austrian serial killer who murdered at least three victims by poison.
However, Mark Sochaski, an analytical chemist and bioterrorism expert, was developing a test for measuring chlorine exposure by measuring the presence of chlorotyrosine, an amino acid formed from exposure to chlorinating agents such as bleach.
It is believed that by the time Hall was killed, Norris had become confident he could carry on killing without being caught since no blood tests for insulin had been done.
Early life Born in Brownsville, Texas, he graduated from the College of Medical and Dental Careers in North Hollywood, California in 1988.
As well, her name was on the industry's lists as a representative of a real-estate agent named Asahi Shōji (朝日商事), whose address was also same as Kotobuki San'in, until the end of 1986.
Ahmadi, along with Sarpās Mokhtār (Central Police chief), Mostafā Rāsekh, and Hosein Niroumand, was arrested and tried for crimes committed during Rezā Shāh's reign.
From the ages of five to eighteen, Harvey was sexually molested by both an uncle and a neighbor, but he told no one except his sister, and only after the abuse ended.
On 8 December 2023, authorities reportedly denied her transfer request from the Rampton Secure Hospital, a high-security psychiatric facility, to a mainstream prison.
As a result, the venue for the upcoming trial was moved to San Angelo, and that new jury would be selected.
In 1976, Barfield began caring for the elderly, working for Montgomery and Dollie Edwards in Lumberton.
In the second instance (19 October 2018), the sentence was reduced to 15 years of prison for homicide beyond intent.
Saldivar later confessed to killing at least 60 patients by 1994, claiming that he "lost count" after that but continued killing for at least three more years.
In spite of this, he was found guilty of five murders and sentenced to two life terms and a 23-year ban on practising as a nurse, with the prosecutors claiming that they would seek charges in other deaths.
She worked as a nurse and was found guilty of killing five patients and the attempted murder of five more.
Employment History On completion of his doctoral studies, Narayan was appointed a lecturer at the Griffith Business School, on the Gold Coast, Australia, and was promoted to senior lecturer in 2005.
Wagner was a member of the six-person lead author team, including Suzi Kerr, that wrote the World Bank's Emissions Trading in Practice : A Handbook on Design and Implementation.
From 1978 to 1988 he was deputy secretary general of OPEC, serving as acting secretary general from 1983 to 1988.
He has been an Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Padova since 2006, specializing in energy economics and electricity market economics.
With uncertainty, firms have options to make capital investments, and much of a firm's value can be attributed to the value of these options, even though many of them may never be exercised.
References External links Jigar Shah – Department of Energy Creating Climate Wealth // Amazon Plumer, Brad; Friedman, Lisa (May 11, 2023).
He previously served as an associate editor for the journal Management Science and was President of the Industry Studies Association.
In 1969, following the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and Eva's graduation, the Smils emigrated to the United States, leaving the country months before a Soviet travel ban shut the borders.
Mar Reguant Ridó (born 1984) is a Spanish and American economist specializing in energy economics, and especially the environmental costs of pollution from electricity generation.
He was given the Dean's Excellence in Teaching Award for Graduate Education at Freeman School of Business in 2014.
The Executive Secretary coordinates the National Security Council meetings and manages vital policy and information communication from the Cabinet and the NSC staff to the President.
He is also an adjunct Professor of finance in INCEIF (International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance) Malaysia Papers and awards He has published more than 130 papers in renowned journals all over the world.
Sponsored by his "Prevent AIDS Now Initiative Committee" (PANIC), Proposition 64 – or the "LaRouche initiative" – qualified for the California ballot in 1986, with the required signature gatherers mostly paid for by LaRouche's Campaigner Publications.
His paper Complexity, Problem Solving, and Sustainable Societies (1996) focuses on the energy cost of problem solving, and the energy-complexity relation in man-made systems.
Her dissertation, Essays in Energy and Environmental Markets, was jointly supervised by Nancy Rose and Stephen P.
Ross is an energy economist and the Executive Chairman and Head of Global Oil for PIRA, an international energy analytics firm, where he oversees short-, medium-, and long-term oil market forecasts.
"Skip" Laitner, Dylan Sullivan, and Nolan Moser, An Issue Brief, Washington, DC: Natural Resources Defense Council.
He was professor at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology and Dubna State University (Moscow region, Dubna city, Russia).
Wagner's Climate Shock, joint with Martin Weitzman, emphasizes that the "known unknowns" and potential "unknown unknowns" instead increase the need for action.
Corruption allegations Three days after becoming acting Mayor, Zucchet resigned from the City Council after he was convicted in U.S.
Lawmakers critiqued the haste with which the budget was considered and passed, having received the 616-page document only that day.
Birol's influence on markets and the world energy community mainly derives from the data-rich reports produced by the IEA which the New York Times described as a "relentless spigot".
Vaclav Smil (Czech: [ˈvaːtslaf ˈsmɪl]; born December 9, 1943) is a Czech-Canadian scientist and policy analyst.
Dunn attended California State University, Long Beach for his Bachelor of Science degree in business administration, California State University, Bakersfield for his Master of Business Administration, and Indiana University Bloomington for his Doctor of Philosophy.
2016 gubernatorial election In December 2015, Inslee announced on Washington's public affairs television channel TVW that he would run for a second term as governor.
2, Brill, Leiden Staff "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" (1984) Contemporary Authors: A bio-bibliographical guide to current writers in fiction, general nonfiction, poetry, journalism, drama, motion pictures, television, and other fields Vol.
He proposed that, when firms use profit sharing wages, meaning employees receive higher wages when a company is doing well, firms have lower rates of unemployment and do better during recessions.
Andrew Leach is a Canadian energy and environmental economist and a contributing writer to a number of Canadian news outlets including The Globe and Mail, and Maclean's.
Paresh Kumar Narayan (born 18 February 1977), is a Fijian-Australian academic of Fiji Indian origin.
Birol's approach to running the organization is both securing energy security while also facilitating the Energy transition.
National Academy of Sciences' Transportation Research Board's Committee on Sustainable Transport and Committee on Developing Countries.
Polenske received her undergraduate degree in Home Economics from the Oregon State University in 1959.
She is the first woman to have held the position of President and CEO of Hydro-Québec between 2020 and 2023.
The organization, which historically had been heavily in favor of the fossil fuel industry, has expanded its scope to include sustainable energy and more members.
Stephen DeCanio (born 1942) is a Professor of economics, emeritus, at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
She was chosen to interview Hillary Clinton (in 2014) and Barack Obama (in 2017) at conferences held in Montreal.
Previously, Parker was Director of Dartmouth's Master of Engineering Management (MEM) program, redesigning it to focus on product management, data analysis, and AI.
The World Nuclear Industry Status Report 2009 Commissioned by German Federal Ministry of Environment, Nature Conservation and Reactor Safety, August 2009.
He previously chaired the US Department of Energy's Task Force on Strategic Energy Research and Development.
The office initially provided $40 billion in loan authority to early-stage energy companies and climate technologies.
Several economists have hailed Georgescu-Roegen as a man who lived well ahead of his time, and some historians of economic thought have proclaimed the ingenuity of his work.
He holds an AB and a PhD in political economy and government from Harvard University, as well as an MA in economics from Stanford University.
Polenske, Roberto Guerrero Compeán, "Antagonistic bioenergies: Technological divergence of the ethanol industry in Brazil", Elsevier, 2011-11-01 Karen R.
where he did his undergraduate work, majoring in physics and electrical engineering, and received his bachelor's degree in 1966.
In 2001, Morse chaired a task force on energy security, sponsored jointly by the Council on Foreign Relations and the James A.
He co-founded Carbon War Room with Richard Branson and Virgin United, an organization that worked to harness the power of entrepreneurship to deploy solution technologies at scale.
Among other works, he is an editor of the book "Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change" and co-author (with Edwin Mansfield) of "Microeconomics| Microeconomics: Theory and Applications".
In July 2021, joined the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) as President of the environmental policy research organization, leading the non-profit in making the case for ambitious and durable climate policies.
Loan Programs Office Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm appointed Shah to direct the United States Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office (LPO) in March 2021.
Gernot Wagner (1980 in Austria) is an Austro-American climate economist at Columbia Business School.
He is the deputy director of the ARC Energy Research Institute, a managing director of energy-focused private equity firm ARC Financial Corporation, and the creator of Energyphile, a multimedia project on energy.
Zucchet (born December 24, 1969) is an American Democratic politician, a former member of the San Diego City Council, and a former deputy mayor of San Diego.
He is affiliated with multiple organizations, as a director on the United States Energy Association, a trustee of the Brookings Institution, a long-term advisor to several U.S.
The company simplified solar as a service through the implementation of the power purchase agreement (PPA) business model.
Nebojsa Nakicenovic (also Nebojša Nakićenović) (born 1949, Belgrade, (former) Yugoslavia) is an energy economist.
More recently, from 2022 to 2024 he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Climate and Energy Economics at the Department of the Treasury, where he received the department's Distinguished Service Award.
Zucchet has also done work with the non-profit Environmental Defense Center in Santa Barbara while in college.
In 2012, Keohane returned to the Environmental Defense Fund as vice president for Global Climate, and later served as Senior Vice President for Climate.
In Energy Efficiency: Building a Clean, Secure Economy (2016), he argued that improvements in energy efficiency have played a central role in U.S.
She has over 30 years of experience in energy, government relations, human resources and sustainability.
He pointed out that the study "stops short of the most that can be supported on a cost benefit basis" and stated that "it does not seem reasonable" to rely solely on Tol's own FUND model when alternatives "reported in the peer-reviewed literature are also credible".
Climate and energy policy Wagner was an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund from 2008 to 2014 and lead senior economist from 2014 to 2016.
From 2001 to 2007, he was an Assistant Professor and then associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management.
He also helped to open Japanese markets to American apples and to fund and oversee the nation's biggest nuclear waste site at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation near Richland, Washington.
Education Shihab-Eldin received all his academic degrees from the University of California, Berkeley: a B.Sc.
He co-developed the theories of two-sided network markets and the inverted firm with Marshall Van Alstyne.
It affects certain investments, such as the sale of stocks and bonds, and taxes profits that total $250,000 or more at 7%.
New York, Hill & Wang/Farrar Straus & Giroux, ISBN 0-8090-5207-5 2015: Climate Shock, joint with Martin Weitzman, Princeton University Press 2015, ISBN 978-0-691-15947-8 (Financial Times-McKinsey Top 15 Business Book of the Year 2015.
Shah founded SunEdison in 2003, where he pioneered "no money down solar" and unlocked a multi-billion-dollar solar market, creating what was the largest solar services company worldwide.
Honors and awards Throughout his career, Lorenzoni has received accolades for his academic contributions and public service.
Richels has served on a number of national and international advisory panels, including committees of the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the National Research Council.
Both viable and feasible technologies depend on a steady flow of natural resources for their operation.
Nebojsa Nakicenovic has been involved in all Assessment Reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
Position on energy Smil is skeptical that there will be a rapid transition to clean energy, believing it will take much longer than many predict.
In 2018, Nakicenovic was inducted into the International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences.
Newell is often cited as an authority on climate, energy, and environmental policy issues in major media outlets like the Financial Times, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, NPR, and C-SPAN.
Dubner, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2007 Study Guide Accompanying Macroeconomics, with Abel, Bernanke, Smith, and Kneebone,6th Canadian edition, Pearson Canada, 2011.
From 2006 to 2018, he served as the founding director of the Precourt Energy Efficiency Center, which focused on interdisciplinary research into cost-effective approaches to energy efficiency and climate mitigation.
Life and career Pearce was born in Harrow, London and attended Harrow Weald county grammar school, now part of Harrow College.
That model changed the status quo, allowing organizations to purchase solar energy services under long-term predictably priced contracts and avoid the significant capital costs of ownership and operation of solar energy systems.
He was due to act as Review Editor for the chapter on Transport in Working Group III's contribution to the Fifth Assessment Report, released in April 2014.
David William Pearce OBE (11 October 1941 – 8 September 2005) was Emeritus Professor at the Department of Economics at University College London and a pioneer of environmental economics.
His analysis of electricity market design gained prominence following the 2000–2001 California electricity crisis.
He was elected a fellow of the Econometric Society in 1994, a fellow of the British Academy in 1999, and a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2005.
Under Shah, the LPO more than tripled its staff and reviewed more than 100 applications from climate tech companies seeking loans totaling more than $100 billion.
He is known for setting out valuation techniques for natural phenomena, arguing that the environment is "under-priced" and that the benefit of environmental services may be calculated.
Testimony, Analysis, and Commentary Newell has testified on multiple occasions in front of the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, most recently on global climate emissions trends and clean energy advancements.
Tol said in March 2014 that he had withdrawn from the writing team for the Summary for Policy Makers of the report in September 2013, citing disagreement with the profile of the report which he considered too alarmist and putting too little emphasis on opportunities to adapt to climate changes.
Post-City Council career After leaving the city council, Zucchet worked at the Utility Consumers' Action Network (UCAN) as a project manager starting in 2006.
Publications Lorenzoni has authored more than 150 publications, with significant works including: "Principles of Electricity Markets Economics" - 2020 "A new measure of Italian hidden energy poverty" - Energy Policy, 2020 Numerous other peer-reviewed articles on renewable energy and policy analysis.
In January 2023, she announced that she would be leaving the company's leadership in April after 3 years, the reason for which was not specified.
The degree to which the corrected, more pessimistic results alter the original conclusions and their policy implications was hotly debated.
Rifkin joined Prodi at a European Union conference in October 2002 to announce "a coordinated long-term plan for Europe to make the transition from fossil-fuel dependency to become the first "hydrogen economy" superpower of the 21st century".
His papers (many of which are co-authored with Jeremy Bulow) apply ideas from auction theory to other economic contexts, including finance and political economy.
He then obtained a specializing Master's degree in Energy Economics and the Environment from the Scuola Superiore Enrico Mattei, followed by a PhD in Energy Engineering from the University of Padova in 1995.
Smil stresses the need for energy prices to reflect their true costs, including greenhouse gas emissions, and promotes a decrease in the demand for fossil fuels through energy-saving measures.
His geoengineering research focuses on economics, governance, policy, and public perception, including the chemtrails conspiracy theory.
Wagner's latest academic work on this topic, joint with Kent Daniel of Columbia University and Bob Litterman of Kepos Capital further emphasizes the importance of pricing climate risk and uncertainty.
Evaluating the British Model of electricity deregulation, Annals of Public and Cooperative Economics, vol 75, 3, 2004, pp 367–398.
1990s Imprisonment, release on parole, attempts at exoneration, visits to Russia LaRouche began his sentence in 1989, serving it at the Federal Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota.
While there he was a member of the faculty of the School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University, and he wrote Climate Shock (2015), a book emphasizing the importance of risk and uncertainty for prompting action on climate change.
He went on to hold academic posts at the Universities of Lancaster, Southampton, Leicester, and Aberdeen before arriving at University College London as Professor of Political Economy, and later Economics.
Richard "Rich" Gayle Richels directs global climate change research at the Electric Power Research Institute.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Director of Research and Acting Secretary General at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Stephen Thomas is a professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, working in the area of energy policy.
'In the years ahead,' he wrote, 'more sophisticated software technologies are going to bring civilization ever closer to a near-workerless world.
Academic career Lorenzoni began his career as a research fellow at IEFE, Università Commerciale Luigi Bocconi, focusing on energy economics.
Three months later when Americans were killed in the La Belle Discotheque bombing in Berlin, President Reagan responded with an attack on Gaddafi's compound codenamed Operation El Dorado Canyon.
Keynote speaker, 2002 World Congress of Environmental Economists Keynote speaker, 2006 World Congress of Animal Geneticists Works Books Weitzman wrote three books: The Share Economy: Conquering Stagflation; Income, Wealth, and the Maximum Principle; and Climate Shock, jointly with Gernot Wagner.
He was awarded MS and PhD degrees in decision science from Harvard University's Division of Applied Sciences.
Selected works Kerevan is the co-author, with Alan Cochrane, of Scottish Independence: Yes or No, published in April 2014.
The book talks about the prominent role of business model innovation, more than new technology, in attracting mainstream capital and unlocking transformational change.
Newell has been a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and a member of the USAEE, American Economics Association, and Association of Environmental and Resource Economics.
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
Daly argues that this steady-state economy is both necessary and desirable in order to keep human environmental impact within biophysical limits (however defined), and to create more allocational fairness between present and future generations with regard to mineral resource use.
He is a senior member of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that was awarded a share of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore.
The largest interests funding Inslee's campaign were pharmaceutical and health-related companies, lawyers and law firms, and high-tech companies.
Shah argues that, while new technical innovation is valuable, deployment of existing technologies are the key to reaching our near-term climate targets.
In 2013, Nordhaus chaired a committee of the National Research Council that produced a report discounting the impact of fossil fuel subsidies on greenhouse gas emissions.
In addition to his PhD students, he supervised the Master’s theses that were the first research of prominent economists including Professors Eric Budish, Jon Levin and Shengwu Li.
In 2015, Narayan was awarded the Mahatma Gandhi Pravasi Samman Award for non-resident Indians who have made substantial contributions to the profession, including contributions to public policy.
Geoengineering Wagner was the founding co-director, joint with David Keith, of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program founded in 2017 as an interfaculty research initiative.
Pobisk Georgievich Kuznetsov (Russian: Побиск Георгиевич Кузнецов; May 18, 1924, in Krasnoyarsk – December 4, 2000) was a Soviet Russian philosopher and scientist (chemist).
Robert Stephen Pindyck ( PIN-dyke; born January 5, 1945) is an American economist, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Professor of Economics and Finance in the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Shah has also called to end all energy subsidies, including those for renewable energy, to "create a level playing field." He has donated repeatedly to the Climate Hawks Vote Political Action Super PAC since 2016 per FEC records.
And in 2025, a Harvard Business Review article Parker co-authored, “Pipelines, Platforms, and the New Rules of Strategy,” was included in “The Definitive HBR Strategy Glossary.” References External links Official website Platform Revolution Articles available for download at SSRN
Currie then correctly foresaw the biggest decline in the price of gold for three decades in April 2013, two days ahead of the crash.
See also List of Yale University people List of American non-fiction environmental writers List of economic advisors to Donald Trump List of University of Cambridge people Predicting the timing of peak oil References External links Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Daniel Yergin at IMDb
Martin Lawrence Weitzman (April 1, 1942 – August 27, 2019) was an American economist and a professor of economics at Harvard University.
"An empirical multi-country analysis of the impact of environmental regulations on foreign trade flows".
He is a key figure in the academic communities of energy economics, integrated assessment modelling, and climate economics, and has been influential in shaping the international policy debate on climate policy.
Professional engagements Lorenzoni co-founded Galileia S.r.l., a spin-off company from the University of Padova that focused on renewable energy and energy efficiency from 2008 to 2020.
In 2016 he was appointed Member of the Board of Directors of the Beijer Institute of Ecological Economics.
Career Broadman served as a consultant on energy security at the Rand Corporation in 1979 and from 1980 to 1981 he was a research fellow at the Brookings Institution.
While at Harvard he produced two major books: Middle Eastern Capitalism: Nine essays (1959) and The Economy of Cyprus (1962) Myers was chief of mission for the Special U.S.
In 2014, Narayan received the Scopus Young Researcher award for the best three authors in Australia in the Social Science category under the age of forty.
He was also the president of the Institute for Energy Policy, a Moscow-based independent think tank until 2013.
He was a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second, Third and Fourth Assessment Reports (the IPCC shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore) and served on the Synthesis Team for the US National Assessment of Climate Change Impacts on the United States.
Leach says that carbon pricing is not necessarily and unconditionally going to "achieve a better outcome" than with regulation or cap and trade.
Academic research His primary academic research interests include climate change policy, energy policy including oil sands regulation and innovations and policies related to clean energy.
With the passing of both bills (IRA and BIL) from Congress under the Biden Administration, Shah managed $400 billion of loan authority intended to commercialize emerging technologies, support clean energy job creation, and stimulate local economies.
He obtained his PhD from UC Berkeley in management science in 1976 and has been at Stanford since 1977.
It would also inquire with the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences on the boundary between self-plagiarism and "self-citation".
This theoretical program would start in 2033 with two aircraft and 4,000 annual flights, increasing over 15 years to nearly 100 aircraft flying hundreds of flights a week," and would cost annually to operate "roughly $2.25 billion".
The prosecution service stated that it had sufficient indications to identify the anonymous complainant, partly based on suspicions raised by the doctoral candidate and IP addresses from which the complainant had sent various emails.
The Energy Gang Shah was a founding co-host of The Energy Gang, a podcast dedicated to exploring the technological, political, and market forces driving energy and environmental issues.
Jaccard is a professor of sustainable energy in the School of Resource and Environmental Management (REM) at Simon Fraser University.
Study in Australia In 2001, he was awarded a Monash graduate school scholarship to study in Australia for three years.
From 1981 to 1984, he worked at Phillips Petroleum Co., where he was Director for International Affairs.
At the end of the war, he was working as a clerk in the Ordnance Corps, and later described his decision to enlist as the most important decision of his life.
After earning a llicenciatura in economics from the Autonomous University of Barcelona in 2006, she went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for graduate study, and completed a Ph.D.
Hutchinson '68A Professor of Engineering Innovation at Dartmouth College and the Faculty Director of the Arthur L.
Recognition In 2017, Reguant was the recipient of the 16th Banco Sabadell Foundation Award for Economic Research.
Gorbachev also hated my guts and called for my assassination and imprisonment and so forth." He asserted that he had survived these threats, because he had been protected by unnamed U.S.
His doctorate thesis, An Econometric Model of Tourism Demand and a Computable General Equilibrium Analysis of the Impact of Tourism: The Case of Fiji Islands was assessed to be the most outstanding work, earning him the Mollie Hollman Medal in 2004 at Monash University.
References External links Official website SFU Energy and Materials Research Group Canadian Industrial Energy End-Use Data and Analysis Centre Archived 2016-10-08 at the Wayback Machine Video of his presentation at Simon Fraser University: Global Warming – Global Justice: Trade-Off or Win-Win?
He was a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Energy and a member of the International Association for Energy Economics.
This was in connection with an alleged scheme also involving fellow City Council members Ralph Inzunza and Charles L.
Hal Varian, a former Chief Economist at Google, called Platform Revolution "an authoritative guide to the role of online platforms." Early life and education Geoffrey Parker was born in Dayton, Ohio.
In 2007-12 he served as convening lead author for energy policy in the production of the Global Energy Assessment.
Richels is a co-author of Buying Greenhouse Insurance - the Economic Costs of CO2 Emission Limits (with Alan S.
Thomas serves on the editorial boards of several periodicals including Energy Policy, Utilities Policy, Energy & Environment, and International Journal of Regulation and Governance.
Many interpretations of degrowth do not offer effective strategies for reducing environmental impact or transitioning to a sustainable economy.
Ein Reiseführer für überzeugte Daheimbleiber, Wien, Ueberreuter-Verlag 2003, ISBN 3-8000-3957-5 2011: But Will The Planet Notice?.
Broadman joined former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright’s consultancy, The Albright Group, as managing director in 2008 at the same time former German Vice Chancellor Joschka Fischer joined the firm.
"Best bids guaranteed, Observing microeconomic theory can avoid collusion at government auctions" (PDF).
Career 2012 to Present: Founder of Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates, based in Tucson, Arizona, where he leads a team of consultants.
He formerly worked for San Diego State University, where he is now an associate professor, emeritus.
In March 2007, Currie authored a Goldman Sachs report title Food, Feed and Fuel, which argued the demand pull from food, feed and fuel represented the beginning of a structural increase in prices.
Shah maintains that climate wealth is created when mainstream investors team up with entrepreneurs, corporations, mainstream capital, and governments at scale to solve the big problems of our time while generating compelling financial – not concessionary – returns.
Polenske has been an advisor to international agencies, including the United Nations Development Programme, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the World Bank, as well as an economic consultant to the U.S.
He has published books and articles in the fields of global environmental protection and energy economics, the theory of the firm, and economic history.
Manne), and of Economic and environmental choices in the stabilization of atmospheric CO2 concentrations (with Tom Wigley and Jae Edmonds).
His books examine economic, environmental and geopolitical pressures on the transformation of the global energy sector.
In 2021, Dunn had the highest salary of any university employee other than the president, Sabah Randhawa.
Milov was mentioned as one of the co-authors of Navalny's platform that was published on December 13, 2017.
Saddler was the author of a book on Australian energy policy, Energy in Australia, and over 50 scientific papers, monographs and articles on energy technology and environmental policy, and is recognised as one of Australia's leading experts in this field.
His research is focused on climate change, energy security, corporate strategy analysis, and energy policy in Japan.
These properties inform the strategies and antitrust law approaches at all firms involved in the network.
In 2011, he was appointed Senior Managing Director at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to establish and lead PwC's Emerging Markets Business Growth Strategy Management Consulting Practice and serve as PwC's Chief Economist.
Calgary Energy Centre Leach reviews articles posted on line by the "pro-energy corporation", the Calgary-based Canadian Energy Centre, which is funded by the government of Alberta.
He was also awarded the Order of the Patriotic War in 1985, the Medal "For Distinguished Labour" in 1969.
Albert Julius Meyer (14 May 1919 – 31 October 1983) was an American economist who taught at Harvard University for 28 years.
He was the Scottish National Party Member of Parliament (MP) for East Lothian from 2015, until he lost his seat to Martin Whitfield of the Labour Party at the 2017 general election.
At Western Washington University, he served as dean of the College of Business and Economics from 2013 to 2016 before gaining his professorship.
Parker's current research explores platform business strategies, data sharing and governance, the role of data and artificial intelligence (AI) in improving industrial energy efficiency, enabling market formation for the decarbonization of energy systems, and advancing healthcare systems.
Irving Institute for Energy & Society at Dartmouth, where he reports to the provost and is responsible for all Institute activities.
See also Andy Stirling David Elliott Energy Fair Gordon Walker World Nuclear Industry Status Report == References ==
With other administrators and mayors of Regione del Veneto Lorenzoni is working to a civic network named Vale.
His father returned from military service in World War II and, considering himself unable to care for his son, placed him in an orphanage.
In the book, Shah envisioned reaching 2020 climate change goals as means to create the next economy with the equivalent of 100,000 companies worldwide, each generating $100 million in sales.
Arturo Lorenzoni (born September 19, 1966) is an Italian academic, researcher, and politician, known for his significant contributions to energy economics, particularly in electricity markets and renewable energy.
Consumer Engagement Programs as a Smart Energy Efficiency Strategy for Our Nation’s Electric Utilities, by John A.
clean energy technologies, spearheading the Biden Administration's efforts to commercialize clean energy in the United States.
As Roman agricultural output slowly declined and population increased, per-capita energy availability dropped.
He has written chapters in books like South Asia in the Era of Globalisation: Trade, Industrialisation and Welfare; Economic Impact of Fiji's Sugar Industry, CGE Modelling and Behaviour of J-Curve.
Additionally, degrowth is unlikely to gain significant social or political support, making it an ineffective strategy for achieving environmental sustainability.
He is currently a Senior Visiting Research Fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies (OIES) and a founding board member of the Kearney Energy Transition Institute in the Netherlands.
He was assistant secretary general to the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries in Kuwait from 1976 to 1978.
He is the Director of the Centre for Economics & Financial Econometrics Research at Deakin University.
If adherence to Jewish law were a requirement for salvation, then salvation would be denied to Gentiles without a conversion to Judaism.
Charles Smith merged the American Association for the Advancement of Atheism with the Truth Seeker Organization in the late 1930s.
In John 6:67–71 Jesus asks the Twelve Apostles if they also want to leave, but Peter responds that they have become believers.
External links Robert Elsie's introduction to Faik Konitza (pdf) "Faïk Konitza – Selected Correspondence 1896–1942" "Albanian Articles of Faik Konitza at shqiperia.com" Luan Starova: "Faik Konitza and Guillaume Apollinaire" "Sister Act".
Returning from exile in Paris and Alexandria after Atatürk's death, in 1942 he published the journal Tanrıdağı, which supported Turanism and pan-Turkism.
Safia Lebdi supports many creations from the suburbs, including Houda Benyamina, who won the Caméra d'or at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2016 for her first feature film Divines, or the recycling of cultural sets with Arstock and La Réserve des arts.
The German and Swiss dancing bans prohibit public parties, but not dancing in one's private residence.
Kleps testified that the absurdist elements of the Church were intended to show that all religions are invented and silly.
All foreign Roman Catholic clergy were expelled in 1946, and Albania officially tried to eradicate religion.
The Begatting of the President is a satirical album narrated by Orson Welles, summarising the presidency of Lyndon B.
The Calas affair was an event that shaped Voltaire during the creation of the Philosophical Dictionary.
Alan Jamieson, in his book A Churchless Faith, describes faith deconstruction as follows: The deconstruction of their previously received faith leads people engaged in this process to successively examine the individual components of their faith.
He disputes the notion that religion improves morality, pointing to the abolitionist movement as an example of secular virtue (ch.
The college, the foundation says, "does not offer traditional college courses, such as math or English".
References External links Jay Bentley on X 2008 Interview with Jay Bentley Interview with Jay Bentley 2007 Room Thirteen interview May 2010
like a toilet, with nine holes pouring all sorts of filth." Isaline Blew Horner and Diana Mary Paul are worried about the discrimination against almswomen and laywomen in Indian Buddhism.
Bowers is portrayed by voice actress and comedian Deven Green, appearing both in photographs and numerous satirical videos.
After graduating from the Military Medical School in 1901 Rıza Nur went on to work as a surgeon at Gülhane Military Hospital before returning to the Military Medical School as an academic in 1907.
A religion connected with the state was essential to making people realize that "they are to account for their conduct [...] to the one great Master, Author and Founder of society".
He describes the Old Testament as violent and inconsistent, with laws that contradict its own commandments (ch.
Oberdan was present in Trieste at the time of this incident, as witnessed by the landlord of the hotel Alla città di Vienna, where he sojourned, as well as her daughter, a pedlar who saw him pass by and, with less certainty, a porter of the hotel.
The song caught the attention of Rubyworks Records, where producer Rob Kirwan collaborated with Hozier on the final recording.
The term takes its name from Jacques Derrida's philosophical concept of deconstruction, although it has only a loose relationship to that concept.
Enlightened rulers such as Frederick II of Prussia and Catherine II of Russia both have been recorded as supporters of the book.
As the term "alt-right" was devised by a group of white nationalists themselves, as a form of self-description, some journalists avoided it.
Arguments "God" can be proved not to mean anything that exists because the alleged definition of God is circular and meaningless.
Thus, when Periyar married Maniammai on 9 July 1948, they quit the Dravidar Kazhagam, stating that Periyar married Maniammayar who was the daughter of Kanagasabhai when he was 70 and she 32.
In doing so, he could take advantage of the high esteem granted Ezra in Judaism." Philosophical criticism Philosophical criticism of Judaism is either part of religious criticism in general or specifically focused on aspects unique to the Jewish religion.
"Prayer in C" is a song by the French folk-pop duo Lilly Wood and the Prick that was originally released on their album Invincible Friends in 2010.
References External links Official website I, Pastafari: A Flying Spaghetti Monster Story at Internet Movie Database I, Pastafari: A Flying Spaghetti Monster Story at Rotten Tomatoes
Yet another suggestion is that Socrates endorsed views in line with liberalism, a political ideology formed in the Age of Enlightenment.
Along with vocalist Greg Graffin, Bentley has appeared on nearly all of Bad Religion's studio albums, with the sole exception being their second album Into the Unknown (1983).
He therefore held that atheism was the philosophical foundation stone of his ideology, but in itself was insufficient.
A formal declaration that the "seven nations" are no longer identifiable was made by Joshua ben Hananiah, around the year 100 CE, making laws of exterminating war a dead letter.
"A Token of My Extreme", by Frank Zappa, is a song on the 1979 concept album Joe's Garage Acts II & III.
At the meeting which the Managing Committee of the Dravidar Kazhagam held, there on that day, it was decided to support the candidates belonging to the Janata Party, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), and the Marxist Party during the General Elections.
Large numbers of people from the so-called hostile class, which included intellectuals, land owners, and former supporters of Japan's occupying government during World War II, were forcibly relocated to the country's isolated and impoverished northern provinces.
Biography Early life and education Krylenko was born in Bekhteyevo, in Sychyovsky Uyezd of Smolensk Governorate, the eldest of six children (two sons and four daughters) born to a populist revolutionary and his wife.
Krylenko left Petrograd for the High Command HQ in Mogilev on 2 July, but was arrested there by the Provisional government after the Bolsheviks staged an abortive uprising on 4 July.
Tension between the conduct of the Israeli government and Jewish traditions and halakha on the conduct of war have caused controversy within Israel and have provided a basis for criticisms of Israel.
See also Bulssi Japbyeon Index of Buddhism-related articles Secular Buddhism Post-canonical Buddhist texts Decline of the Dharma Buddhist eschatology Notes References Further reading Tenzin, Kencho (2006).
The song's aim is to reduce to absurdity calls to ban books and films following well-publicised acts of violence.
Sources of criticism Historically, certain notable Catholic works were written as a criticism of a Protestant work.
When he discusses the salvation of Israel and bringing them out of captivity, he is saying that the Lord will bring the ones who call on his name and are his believers to safety, away from the dominion of sin on the earth.
Exhibitions, poetry, and performance art Gibson has contributed text to be integrated into a number of performance art pieces.
She repeatedly demonstrates a lack of awareness or consideration for others, often blatantly violating social norms in service of her desires, or sometimes simply for lack of care.
"Preface" (Open Access), by Dag Herbjørnsrud, in: The Hatata Inquiries: Two Texts of Seventeenth-Century African Philosophy from Ethiopia about Reason, the Creator, and Our Ethical Responsibilities (2023).
Orson Welles was selected as the deadpan narrator due to his already being an established narrator, including on Biblical epics such as King of Kings (1961).
Millbrook also includes philosophical interpretations of psychedelic experience and synchronicity and social and political commentary on aspects of the psychedelic movement.
Legacy Spanish director Jesús Franco has made two films based on Philosophy in the Bedroom: Eugenie… The Story of Her Journey into Perversion (1970) and Eugenie (Historia de una perversión) (1980).
The same day, the track listing, cover art and release date of parent album One Assassination Under God – Chapter 1 was revealed.
She was one of the few spouses of a ruling communist party leader with a high political profile of her own.
At her next meeting, she is given a plea deal by the School Board, where she will retain her job by apologizing for sharing these scriptures in class.
According to Hawley, it was the alt-right's use of trolling which put it "into the national conversation".
Unlike antitheism, antireligion is also against those religions that do not have deities, such as some sects of Buddhism and Jainism.
Similarly, historian David Atkinson stated that the alt-right was "a racist movement steeped in white supremacist ideas".
He predicted that practicing Rand's godless ideology would lead to a dictatorship similar to Nazism or Stalinist communism, and said that throughout the novel "a voice can be heard ...
Marjoe is a 1972 American documentary film directed and produced by Howard Smith and Sarah Kernochan about Pentecostal preacher Marjoe Gortner, who was ordained as a preacher at only age four and became an evangelist sensation in the 1940s.
Graveney confesses to Edmund that he fears damnation for his many sins, which include killing his father so he could have an affair with his own mother over one thousand times.
The lyrics and song material were inspired by Hetfield's anguish on the circumstances surrounding his mother's death.
The worshippers of the one jealous God are egged on to aggressive wars against people of alien [beliefs and cultures].
In 1999, under Aglialoro's sponsorship, Ruddy negotiated a deal with Turner Network Television (TNT) for a four-hour miniseries; however, the project was killed after TNT merged with AOL Time Warner.
Thornton as the chaplain of the football team have been or are in the process of being removed and no future references will be made in writing or otherwise." Mehta continues: "None of that means students can't seek Thornton out on their own.
Antireligious campaigns in China are policies and practices of successive Chinese polities since the late 19th century to discourage both folk and organized religion.
In April 2015, Atheist Ireland issued an official announcement, apologizing that they had given Myers public platforms to speak and that now it is "publicly dissociating itself from the hurtful and dehumanising, hateful and violent, unjust and defamatory rhetoric of the atheist blogger PZ Myers...
The organization was founded partly as an absurdist religion, partly as a religious expression of the psychedelic movement, and partly as a device to gain religious exemption from American drug laws such as those outlawing LSD.
130), produces motion, so the intricate organic complex of force-bearing substance in an animal organism produces a total sum of certain effects, which, when bound together in a unity, are called by us mind, soul, thought.
Tyler Bates – composition, guitars, bass, keyboards, recording and production Will Borza – mastering Robert Carranza – recording and mixing Marilyn Manson – composition, vocals and production Gil Sharone – drums Howie Weinberg – mastering Charts == References ==
At Anime Expo 2008, Haruhi was awarded the Society for the Promotion of Japanese Animation (SPJA) award for Best Female Character.
Controversy The song was banned from radio and TV airplay and Raspoet was often forbidden to perform it on stage.
Just before the execution, he cried "Viva l'Italia!" (Long live Italy!), which helped establish his later reputation as a martyr of the Italian national cause.
The case for it being a political persecution is usually challenged by the existence of an amnesty that was granted to Athenian citizens in 403 BC to prevent escalation to civil war after the fall of the Thirty.
Also hosted is Jim Foley's Fossil Hominids sub-site which studies the evidence for human evolution and has an extensive list of links to websites on both evolutionary biology and creationism.
He was a staunch critic of Anatoli Lunacharsky, who proposed the concept of God-Building, which held that because religion "cultivated in the masses emotion, moral values, [and] desire", revolutionaries should take advantage of that fact.
The Archive is also referenced in college-level textbooks and has had material from the archive incorporated into over 20 college or university courses.
The Blasphemy Challenge The Blasphemy Challenge, started in December 2006, is an Internet-based project which aims to get atheists to come out and declare themselves as atheists.
Debate with The Way of the Master Brian Sapient and Kelly O'Connor, members of the RRS, participated in a debate with representatives from The Way of the Master, actor and evangelical Christian Kirk Cameron, and his colleague Ray Comfort, at Calvary Baptist Church in Manhattan on May 5, 2007.
Sean Beavan, who mixed and co-produced Antichrist Superstar, is credited with "descending horn guitar" on the track.
Early criticism of Judaism and its texts, laws, and practices originated in inter-faith polemics between Christianity and Judaism.
The main character from this triple-album rock-opera has his mind messed-up by Lucille then "finally does something smart" and "pays a lot of money to L.
For example, when the Lutherans gave the 1530 Augsburg Confession, the Catholics responded with the Confutatio Augustana.
Following Trump's election, he described the series as "suddenly" telling a "story about the intersection of celebrity and authoritarianism and how social media and entertainment are used to sell fascism".
This tension between Christian Science as a potentially effective healing system (though not for all ailments) and Christian Science as apocalyptic threat is challenging to reconcile.
In the aftermath of the album's release, in 1971 Welles found himself on the receiving end of a tax audit from the Nixon administration, which forced him to put several projects on hold (most notably his The Other Side of the Wind), in favour of more lucrative work to pay off his tax debt.
At the same time, his work espouses deism (though he calls it theism, contrary to its modern meaning), tolerance and freedom of the press.
Finland banned dancing in December 1939 following the outbreak of Winter War, with the ban lasting until the signing of the Moscow Armistice in 1944 that ended Finnish participation in World War II.
According to reports, Falun Gong practitioners have been subjected to medical testing and had their organs forcibly removed since 1999.
(Why an independent Tamil Nadu?), he criticised the Central Government of India, inducing thousands of Tamilians to burn the constitution of India.
A "strike hard" campaign against new religious movements proceeded from 1983 to 1986 (and later in some places).
Advocating feminism and secularism, and a member of Europe Écologie Les Verts, in 2007 she created the Insoumis-es movement, of which she is president.
Letter VIII on "the law of God" expressed by each gender's physical construction: (women) There shall be no limit put upon your intercourse with the other sex sexually, at any time of life....
Regarding the death of Jesus The idea that Judaism, and the Jewish people collectively, are responsible for the death of Jesus, often represented in the claim that "Jews killed Jesus", figures prominently in antisemitic writings.
Haruhi attracted the most attention by drawing a huge graffiti mural on the field at school of the night of Tanabata, which was reported in the newspaper.
Following the release of the season four finale, Urban revealed that the fifth and final season won't be released until 2026.
It is described as operating under a dictatorial structure whereby its "Pastor" holds all authority over the church, its members, and its extensive holdings.
One day in her history class, the lesson centers around the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi and Reverend Martin Luther King Jr.
Konica assured Ippen that he and his friends believed that Albania should be in political and military union with Austria.
The American Association for the Advancement of Atheism (AAAA – 4A) was an atheistic and antireligious organization established in 1925.
Joe is informed that the best appliances speak foreign languages, which leads to the next song, "Stick It Out".
Gale concluded that A Case of Conscience was "a provocative, serious, commendable work" and characterized it as "trailblaz[ing]".
The accompanying music video premiered in September 2013, directed by Brendan Canty, Emmet O'Brien and Conal Thomson.
It was founded by Charles Lee Smith, and the organization's "only creedal requirement was a formal profession of atheism".
In 2014, the German DJ and record producer Robin Schulz remixed the song, and the remix was re-released in June 2014.
Critical reception Positive critique Michael Kinsley, in The New York Times Book Review, lauded Hitchens's "logical flourishes and conundrums, many of them entertaining to the nonbeliever".
The printers involved were fined £3,000 (a large sum of money at the time) for the mistake and all copies of the misprinted bible were ordered destroyed.
Feeling that Turkey was too reliant on Germany but accepting that the country needed a close relationship with a bigger power to prosper he toyed with the idea of a United States mandate in Turkey in the immediate aftermath of World War I.
Kim also formed an air force, equipped at first with Soviet-built, propeller-driven fighters and attack aircraft.
Immediately following this healing, he turns to the local country horse doctor to cure a headache and stomach ache.
It has been said by many Kiss insiders that the amplifier feedback at the beginning of the album version of "Unholy" is from Vinnie Vincent.
They claimed that they could prove the existence of God scientifically without using the Bible, though Comfort does refer to the Bible when he participates in such discussions, and did so during the May 5 debate.
Biography Safia Lebdi has been involved with women in her neighborhood since 1998, leading meetings and subsequently a national march in 23 cities in France, "the women's march against the ghettos and for equality", which will give birth to the Ni Putes Ni Soumises movement.
Lewis draws similarities between Baldrick's relics scene and The Pardoner's Tale from Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, whose protagonist also has a trade in fake relics.
As with guitarist Brett Gurewitz and lead singer Greg Graffin, he was a student of El Camino Real High School.
In their study of Zappa published in the journal Studies in Musical Theatre, Carr and Hand mention that the song is "a satire of L.
Congregations of Mormons have been banned throughout the country and the small Kaifeng Jewish community has been suppressed.
Reception On 5 October 2019, the film had its world premiere at the Nashville Film Festival, followed by screenings at other festivals in the U.S.A.
Simmons stated in his book Kiss and Make-Up: "Vinnie Vincent came up to me and apologized for causing the band all the grief while he was a member.
An abridged translation in English, of Zera Yacob's inquiry only, appeared in New Times and Ethiopia News (London) from 5 February until 4 March 1944.
Critical reception Although Felicity Hughes of The Japan Times describes Haruhi as having tsundere character traits in her treatment of Kyon, she notes that the opinion is controversial as fans consider her "too energetic to be truly tsundere".
However, her contract for The Fountainhead gave the first option to its publisher, Bobbs-Merrill Company.
Haruhiism is a mock religion, based on Koizumi's suggestion that an undefined phenomenon which happened three years prior to the start of the series was Haruhi destroying the universe and then creating the current universe according to her own design.
The Cult was intended as a civic religion—inspired by the works of Rousseau, Quatremère de Quincy, and Jacques-Louis David, it presented "an explicit religion of man".
Loot for the first time received favourable reviews and transferred to London with a new director and cast.
See also Dechristianisation of France during the French Revolution Religion of Humanity Cult of the Supreme Being God-Building Notes References Citations Sources External links Media related to Cult of Reason at Wikimedia Commons
Festive girls in white Roman dress and tricolor sashes milled around a costumed Goddess of Reason who "impersonated Liberty".
Jawaharlal Nehru (1889-1964), first prime minister of India who said "The spectacle of what is called religion, or at any rate organised religion, in India and elsewhere, has filled me with horror and I have frequently condemned it ...." in his autobiography.
The band's most recent studio album, Age of Unreason, was recorded in 2018 and 2019, with a May 1, 2019 release.
Burke argued that "the consecration of the state by a state religious establishment" was necessary to secure the freedom of Englishmen.
Cleaver is on Lithia, setting up his reactors, but the physicist who invented the telescope technology believes he has found a fault in Cleaver's reasoning.
It was commissioned for a documentary film titled Dancer, directed by Steven Cantor yet leaked online by LaChapelle before its premiere at Sundance Selects.
Music video The music video for the song was directed by Maxim Rosenbauer and filmed in Berlin, Germany.
If the remedy to revealed religion is natural religion, then the solution to civil society is natural society.
Prior to his confirmation, Myers says, "I started thinking, you know, I don't believe a word of this." Now an atheist, Myers comments on his blog about science, education, atheism and religion.
According to some Christian exegesis, David begins to reference the return of Christ to retrieve his people.
However, some minor strains of radical Zionism promote aggressive war and justify them with biblical texts.
Cast Inspirations The film's script was inspired by lawsuits involving the place of the Christian faith in universities and by the book God's Not Dead: Evidence for God in an Age of Uncertainty published by Pastor Rice Broocks.
Nature according to him is purely physical; it has no purpose, no will, no laws imposed by extraneous authority, no supernatural ethical sanction.
Ron Hoover and the First Church of Appliantology." Plot Appliantology is shown as an insincere religion, which cooperates with a "malevolent totalitarian regime." This is an apparent reference to Scientology and its founder L.
There simply can be no dialogue worthy of the name unless Christians accept—nay, treasure—the fact that Jews through the two millennia of Christianity have had an agenda of their own.
In the study, the strength of religiosity in the home in which a scientist was raised, current religious attendance, peers' attitudes toward religion, all had an impact on whether or not scientists saw religion and science as in conflict.
Martens notes, however, that Hetfield does not celebrate God's failure in the song, but instead blames God, through his mother's faith and death, for contributing to the meaninglessness of life.
Despite the text featuring torture, the dialogue contains no actual murder, unlike many of Sade's works.
External links A Case of Conscience title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database "A Case of Conscience" title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database Novella "A Case of Conscience" in the If magazine at the Internet Archive A Case of Conscience at Open Library
Many of the persecutors attempted to justify their actions with particular scriptural interpretations.
In the 2008 documentary Blackadder Rides Again, Richard Curtis and Tony Robinson both mention the relics scene as a particular highlight.
For example, Yacob points out that the Creator in His wisdom has made blood flow monthly from the womb of women, in order for them to bear children.
This, according to Luke, caused the people to attack Jesus and chase him to the top of a hill in order to try to throw Jesus off, though Jesus slips away.
The copyright issue has posed a particular problem since the FAQs started off as a small collection with little thought given to copyright but have since mushroomed.
BCSE estimated that TiS had, at that point, spent around £116,000, including employment of a full-time administrator.
But I'm gonna bring in Jared." In September 2024, it was announced that Daveed Diggs had been cast in a main role for the fifth and final season, that in March 2026 was revealed to be Oh-Father.
Philosophical debate in the book is said to show Diderot's distinct withdrawal from the Age of Enlightenment.
A careful distinction was always drawn between the rational respect of Reason and the veneration of an idol: "There is one thing that one must not tire telling people," Momoro explained, "Liberty, reason, truth are only abstract beings.
While The Black Adder satirises the supposedly unquestioning credulity of the Mediaeval Christian, Lewis suggests that Chaucer's story, by offering a satirical commentary on the relic trade, shows that the teachings of the Church were open to question and ridicule even in the 14th century.
The reason for this action was that Periyar held the Government responsible for maintaining the caste system.
Myers summarizes his stance by invoking "Blake's Law", named for Pharyngula commentator Blake Stacey.
According to both the Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodoxy, many major, foundational Protestant doctrines have been officially declared heretical.
He was executed after a failed attempt to assassinate Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph, becoming a martyr of the Italian unification movement.
It was released as his debut single on 13 September 2013, originally featuring on his extended play of the same name, before being featured as the opening track of his 2014 self-titled debut album.
Wisconsin The FFRF maintains a sign in the Wisconsin State Capitol during the Christmas season, which reads: At this season of THE WINTER SOLSTICE may reason prevail.
Gibson coined the term "cyberspace" for "widespread, interconnected digital technology" in his short story "Burning Chrome" (1982), and later popularized the concept, along with his usage of the "matrix", in his acclaimed debut novel Neuromancer (1984).
Theological noncognitivism is the non-theist position that religious language, particularly theological terminology such as 'God', is not intelligible or meaningful, and thus sentences like 'God exists' are cognitively meaningless.
It is a false religion." Carl Trueman argues that the "(mis)use of the Derridean d-word gives the whole a specious veneer of intellectualism and a certain superannuated postmodern chic".
It has been suggested by several Welles biographers that the tax audit was prompted by the Nixon administration in retaliation for The Begatting of the President.
He continued his philosophical work in defense of materialism, and published Natur und Geist (Nature and Spirit, 1857), Aus Natur und Wissenschaft (From Nature and Science, vol.
Rediscovery and re-release Although released on VHS, the film had long been out of print and had deteriorated.
The book is a collection of essays Twain wrote about Christian Science, beginning with an article that was published in Cosmopolitan in 1899.
Madame de Saint-Ange, a 26-year-old libertine woman who is the owner of the house and bedroom in which the dialogue is set.
Albania (periodical) While in Brussels, in 1896 and 1897 Konica started the publication of the periodical Albania, with publication ending in 1909, after he departed for the US.
Rossini also claimed that a monk, Tekle Haymanot, had heard other people say that Urbino might have written the treatise in cooperation with other Geʽez scholars in Ethiopia.
A humorous work of fiction, it describes how he fell over a cliff while walking in Austria, breaking several bones.
The webpages of the National Academy of Sciences, Smithsonian Institution, Leakey Foundation, the National Center for Science Education and other organizations recommend Talkorigins.org.
When the trial begins, Grace defends her freedom of speech, and the defensive attorneys argue that the discussion that took place in class was an example of a historical analysis of Jesus, as opposed to purely evangelical.
According to official North Korean sources, Kim Il Sung was the original writer of many plays and operas.
On October 31, 2014, in a special setup on Halloween night, Manson performed the song with Johnny Depp on guitar and Ninja (from Die Antwoord) as a background vocalist, in the club Roxy in West Hollywood.
Nur also had negative views of Circassians in Turkey and along with the Albanians viewed them as a threat to the Turkish state due to developing rival nationalisms.
628 pages of compulsive demoniac chatter." The Pope dismisses Ruiz-Sanchez to purge his own soul and to return to the Church if and when he can.
She was the wife of Enver Hoxha, the first leader of the People's Socialist Republic of Albania and the First Secretary of the Party of Labour of Albania.
The site records that the initial pastor of Landover was Ben Ebeneezer Smith, and that upon his death his brother (Deacon Fred Smith) assumed the office.
On 20 November 1913 he went in conflict with Essad Pasha and left Durrës together with his collaborator Fazil Pasha Toptani.
Legal career (1918–1934) From May 1918 and until 1922, Krylenko was Chairman of the Revolutionary Tribunal of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee.
Text The following table shows the Hebrew text of the Psalm with vowels, alongside the Koine Greek text in the Septuagint and the English translation from the King James Version.
Indeed, the Hebrew prophets did not foresee that Israel's savior would be executed as a common criminal by Gentiles, making Jesus' crucifixion a "stumbling block" to scripturally literate Jews.
Nonbelief Relief lost a lawsuit against the IRS because it lacked standing to challenge the Form 990 exemption that applies to churches.
his candle is increasingly softened and weakened by the weather of age, as the years go by, until at last it can no longer stand, and is mournfully laid to rest in the hope of a blessed resurrection which is never to come.
Pascal charged that "remorseful" aristocrats could confess a sin one day, re-commit it the next, then generously donate to the church and return to re-confess their sin, confident that they were being assigned a penance in name only.
Loot was Orton's third major production, following Entertaining Mr Sloane and the television play The Good and Faithful Servant.
At one time he refuses to explain it, but generally he assumes that all natural and spiritual forces are indwelling in matter.
Mémoires, correspondance et ouvrages inédits de Diderot [Memoirs, correspondence and unpublished works of Diderot] (in French).
It was played in E flat tuning from 1994 to 2006 - since 2010, the song has been played in D standard tuning.
See also Apophatic theology Conceptions of God Fideism Ietsism Ineffability Münchhausen trilemma Mysticism Newton's flaming laser sword Problem of religious language Thought-terminating cliché Eliminative materialism References Bibliography == External links ==
Set to come out on May 17, 2022, the first two seasons were released on Blu-ray and DVD, in a six-disc box set by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, on May 31, 2022.
Lyrics In 1969, Raspoet wrote the song "Evviva Il Papa", which criticized the Pope's conservative ideology, papal infallibility, corruption, ban on anticonception and Pius XII's alleged silence during World War II, when the Nazis prosecuted Jewish people.
He spent the next several years using his fame and status as an evangelist to earn a living from both tent revivals and televangelism.
Arthur O'Sullivan played McLeavy, Jill Bennett played Fay, David Troughton played Hal, James Aubrey played Dennis, Philip Stone played Truscott, and Michael O'Hagan played Meadows.
Another student in the class records the interaction using their cell phone, and tells someone else that the teacher has been preaching in the classroom.
The song's lyric examines a perceived hypocrisy of religion, where the death of the savior is glorified.
Citing state core standards, a local judge gives the group a week to develop a court case that they will present before a court of law in Washington D.C.
Loot was revived from 11 December 2008 to 31 January 2009 at the Tricycle Theatre, London starring Matt Di Angelo and David Haig as Hal and Truscott.
The Peripheral's continuation, Agency, was released on January 21, 2020, after being delayed from an initial announced release date of December 2018.
Biography Nexhmije Hoxha was born Nexhmije Xhuglini in Bitola, in present-day North Macedonia, then Yugoslavia.
The National Museum of Malí (French: Musée national du Mali) is an archaeological and anthropological museum located in Bamako, the capital of Mali.
Today, the museum manages a collection of over 125.000 pieces, being an active actor on the Arad cultural scene, assuming a reformative role.
At the time of the construction of the building, the previous octagonal museum was kept, and the office of the Department of Archeology next to it was dismantled.
Constructed on the site of earlier buildings destroyed during the Gothic raids in 250–251, it was abandoned in the 7th century due to Avar and Slavic invasions.
In 2009, the museum had moved to a new location and was reopened as the National Archaeological Museum Aruba.
Designed by the British architect Leslie Martin, CAM's original building has been a three-story structure with a vast single-room gallery consisting of interconnecting floors; movable panels provide for maximum flexibility in arranging exhibits.
A research directory outlining research projects, centres and networks at the Institute of Archaeology is available on the institute's website.
French 18th century decorative art has a special place in the museum, with outstanding gold and silver objects and furniture, as well as paintings and sculptures.
Public Archaeology is a journal sponsored by the institute, launched in 2000 as an international peer-reviewed journal with a focus on the issues of cultural heritage, community archaeology and archaeological practice as it relates to wider civil and governmental concerns.
Starting from the winter semester of 1930/31, Neumann offered courses as a volunteer assistant at the Department of History.
Wietenberg Culture Artifacts Dacian Ages in Transylvania The Dacian collection present a rich collection of artifacts, including weaponry.
Didrichsen Art Museum (Finnish: Didrichsenin taidemuseo, Swedish: Didrichsens konstmuseum) is an art museum in Helsinki, Finland.
Theft and recovery of artifacts On 14 January 1987, the museum was robbed of nine valuable artifacts by a group of thieves.
Sala delle Muse: houses the statue group of Apollo and the nine muses, uncovered in a Roman villa near Tivoli in 1774, as well as statues by important ancient Greek or Roman sculptors.
van Koolwijk References External links Media related to Archaeological Museum of Aruba at Wikimedia Commons Official website
The López Museum moved to the Benpres Building in Pasig on April 19, 1986, with its previous building in Pasay later demolished.
Déri Museum, Debrecen, two mummies – the priest Hor and a middle-aged man who lived during the 18th Dynasty.
Borowski heeded her advice, built the Bible Lands Museum and moved his collection from a museum in Toronto to Jerusalem.
This was funded by the family of David Samuel Gottesman, a Hungarian émigré, the philanthropist who had purchased the scrolls as a gift to the State of Israel.
Museum of Ethnology References External links Official website (English version) Annals, an early history of the museum.
The museum presents a panorama overview of Sudanese archaeology, is based on the fieldwork and research conducted by the Swiss Archaeological Mission.The site attracts a high number of visitors, with annual attendance exceeding 30,000 people.
The Djibouti Museum (Arabic: متحف جيبوتي, romanized: Matḥaf Jībūtī) is a history and art museum in Djibouti City, Djibouti.
The museum was established in 1997 to house the pre-Columbian art collection formerly held by its parent museum, the Barbier-Mueller Museum in Genève, Switzerland, which was loaned to the city of Barcelona.
In the ground floor's five balconies overlooking the Nile, there are deer-skin chairs embossed with King Farouk's name in hieroglyphs, and a statue representing the Egyptian and Sudanese women, symbolizing the unity of Egypt and Sudan as a single kingdom at the time.
Villa and museum The museum was founded as a result of archaeological research beginning in 1976, which uncovered the House of Antiope, a Late Roman villa decorated with floor mosaics.
Gallery of the Statues (Galleria delle Statue): as its name implies, holds various important statues, including Sleeping Ariadne and the bust of Menander.
History Fritz Buck, a German jeweler who migrated to Bolivia in the first half of the 20th century, initiated his collection with objects he bought in Peru, the country he first arrived in.
The agreement provided the museum with a new information technology system, and an improvement of the conservation facilities of its collections.
A collection of Armenian coins, issued in Tsopk; Minor Hayk (3rd century BC – 150 BC); coins of the Armenian Artaxiad dynasty (189 BC – 6 AD); of the Kiurike kingdom (11th century); and Armenian kingdom of Cilicia (1080–1375).
The year 2012 marked the institute's 75th anniversary, and a number of events and activities were held to mark this occasion.
After Hilprecht’s death in 1925, the collection was bequeathed to Friedrich Schiller University Jena, in accordance with his last will, and named the "Frau Professor Hilprecht Collection of Babylonian Antiquities" in memory of his first wife.
Roman Times of Dacia Medieval Times Modern times Egyptian Collection Lapidarium Treasury See also Museums in Cluj-Napoca Prehistory of Transylvania External links Museum website (in Romanian) Museum website Archived 2006-08-20 at the Wayback Machine (in Romanian) [1] (in Romanian)
Represented sculptors include Neoclassicists such as Canova, Sergel, Carstens, Flaxman, Rauch and Baily, as well as Modernists like Meunier, Klinger, Picasso and Giacometti.
Isan (or northeastern Thailand), once home to Ban Chiang, Dvaravati, Lopburi and Khmer civilizations.
It previously was located in Pasig, Philippines at the ground floor of the Benpres Building, Exchange Road corner Meralco Avenue, Ortigas Center.
The Jebel Barkal Museum is an archaeological site museum located on the eastern side of the archaeological area of Jebel Barkal at Karima in the Northern State of Sudan.
Collection The museum is dedicated to the display of objects excavated by the Atlas Arqueológico de Guatemala within the southeastern Petén region.
Mujica also collected over 20,000 weapons from around the world, the oldest dated from the 13th century.
New scientific reviews are being edited since 1992: Studies and Communications of Art and Architecture, Natural Harmonies (1995) – researches from the field of natural sciences – and Zarandul (1999), containing ethnographic studies.
During the 19th century, the museum was visited by internationally renowned scholars such as Alexander von Humboldt.
After 1945, the museum grew in importance and developed its research area, under the name "Museum of the Iron Gates Region".
Displays The three gallery rooms of the museum display artefacts and pottery findings from excavations conducted in the Jebel Barkal area, among them one of the royal Twenty-fifth Dynasty of Egypt statues found by George A.
The museum originated in 1911 as the Municipal Museum of History and Art (Museo Civico di Storia e d'Arte).
Modern Romanian fine arts are also represented, with works by Luchian, Petrașcu, Pallady, Tonitza, Dimitrescu, Șirato, Stoenescu and Ressu.
Once the new museum was created, the collection was provisionally installed in a wing of the main floor of the National Archeological Museum, and was inaugurated on July 13, 1944.
Petersburg in 2009, at the Princeton University Art Museum in 2010, and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York from 2014 to 2015.
As of January 2025, the design has been finalized, and the estimated date of completion is the second quarter of 2026.
The museum is located on Museum Row in Givat Ram, between the Israel Museum, the National Campus for the Archaeology of Israel, and the Bloomfield Science Museum.
The construction of the contemporary museum building began in February 1963 in the Chapultepec park.
The Best of the Best: Prints, Drawings, and Photographs from the DIA Collection (November 23, 2007 – March 2, 2008) The DIA has chosen over 100 of the "best" prints, drawings, and photographs out of the museums 35,000 pieces of work to be displayed in the exhibit.
The museum represents an integral picture of the history and culture of Armenia, from prehistory to the present day.
The museum's collection also includes Zo to kujira-zu byōbu (Elephant and Whale), a late masterpiece by Itō Jakuchū, one of Japan's most popular painters.
"The Gulbenkian Museum is closed for renovation until July 2026." Collection The permanent exhibition and galleries are distributed chronologically and in geographical order to create two independent circuits within the overall tour.
Museum content The Tetouan Museum includes a collection of archaeological and historical pieces dating back to various time periods.
Both the lapidary collection and the open air collection in the palace garden present the oldest material culture of the coastal and karst areas.
In 2024, it became the highest rated museum in all of Argentina on the Tripadvisor platform, and has received the company's Traveller Choice award that year and also previously in 2021 and 2022.
Digitization using imaging techniques Initial attempts at digitizing the collection began in the mid-1990s.
Today’s collection Since 1975, considerable donations have allowed the acquisition of over 15.000 unique items from the ancient Near East.
See also List of museums in Saudi Arabia References External links Media related to Jeddah Regional Museum of Archaeology and Ethnography at Wikimedia Commons
Description The museum contains collections of pre-Columbian art once owned by artist Rufino Tamayo.
It holds collections of intangible heritage resources and provides an interpretation of how people lived and acted in the past; this is accomplished according to sound scientific methods for the purposes of education, study and enjoyment of its visitors.
Clement XIV came up with the idea of creating a new museum in Innocent VIII's Belvedere Palace and started the refurbishment work.
In 2022 the museum was one of nine in Morocco to send some of its objects on loan to the National Archaeological Museum in Madrid for a binational exhibition.
They can include stone epigraphs; statues; architectural elements such as columns, cornices, and acroterions; bas reliefs, tombstones; and sarcophagi.
In 1846 Robert Smirke was replaced as the museum's architect by his brother Sydney Smirke, whose major addition was the Round Reading Room 1854–1857; at 140 feet (43 m) in diameter it was then the second widest dome in the world, the Pantheon in Rome being slightly wider.
History The Uganda Martyrs Museum was established at the Church of Uganda grounds in Namugongo, conceived by Archbishop Livingstone Mpalanyi Nkoyoyo.
There is also controversy over artefacts taken during the destruction of the Old Summer Palace in Beijing by an Anglo-French expeditionary force during the Second Opium War in 1860, an event which drew protest from Victor Hugo.
Labels on maps and display panels were changed from Palestine to the historical region of Canaan or the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah, as appropriate to the period in question.
Due to increasing obsolescence of analogue formats, AIATSIS identifies digitisation as the way to preserve those items for future generations to access.
A temple dedicated to Aqvon, the deity of the Voglajna River, was built in the Late Roman era, on the foundations of which an early Christian church was later built, and on the western edge of the hill there was another church, where Arianism was practiced.
The Arad Museum Complex (Romanian: 'Complexul Muzeal Arad') is primarily a history and archaeology museum in the city of Arad, Romania.
Many archaeology museum are in the open air, such as the Ancient Agora of Athens and the Roman Forum.
Buildings It is located in several neighboring buildings, most prominently two designed by Melchior Berri in the early 19th century.
The exhibits range from ancient pottery, jewelry, stone engravings, ancient coins, and daily tools that reflect the development of society in ancient times.
On 27 May 1991, Sheikh Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi issued a decree to establish a Department of Antiquities and Heritage for the Emirate of Fujairah, including maintenance of the museum and its collection.
Among the artefacts in the collection are a mosaic mask consisting of 19 pieces of jade of unknown provenance and a sculpted stone atlante column.
Erebuni Historical-Archaeological Reserve-Museum (Armenian: «Էրեբունի» պատմահնագիտական արգելոց-թանգարան), was established on October 19, 1968.
It was Carl Jacobsen who chose the name for the museum, with inspiration from Ludwig I's Glyptothek in Munich, as well as Vilhelm Dahlerup as the architect for the assignment.
In 1936, an early Iron Age urn cemetery and an early medieval terraced cemetery near Dreitzsch were investigated.
There are a total of ten galleries: Formative, Nasca, Mochica, Huari, Chancay – Chimu, Inca, Wood, Jewelry and Stone, Silver, and Gold and Metals.
The museum contains archaeological discoveries from stone age, bronze age, Iron Age, pre-Islamic Sassanian period, Islamic and Julfar period.
It follows the development of fibulae in that area from prehistoric to Roman times and the early Middle Ages.
See also Tamayo Contemporary Art Museum — houses the modern art collection of Rufino Tamayo, in Mexico City.
Without a fixed location, The collection settled in various places until 1872, when it was exhibited in the main palace of the International Exhibition.
The museum is housed in the 17th century Magna Curia Palace, constructed in 1621 under the authority of Prince (Voivode) Gabor Bethlen.
True to scale architectural reconstructions in the open air – Archaeological open-air museums deal with outdoor true-to-scale reconstructed buildings.
However, since its founding, the museum has received numerous criticisms from local indigenous groups, who denounce the unconsulted removal and exhibition of the children as a desecration as well as a violation of indigenous rights.
The Art Gallery branch of the museum (Sectia de Arta) is located in the opposite prefecture, on the other side of the park and on the corner of Str.
About half of the funding comes from the city, while the other half is raised through revenue, sponsors, and donations.
These plans are on hold to allow for a thorough archaeological investigation of the museum courtyard.
The collection of special Bibles has been transferred to the special collection of the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam.
According to this request, the government gave the old administration building (පරණ කච්චේරි ගොඩනැගිල්ල) in Anuradhapura for the establishment of the Archaeological Museum.
A lapidarium is a place where stone (Latin: lapis) monuments and fragments of archaeological interest are exhibited.
Tamayo left the museum to his native state of Oaxaca, for his fellow Mexicans awareness of their rich cultural heritage.
History Jerusalem mayor Teddy Kollek was the driving spirit behind the establishment of the Israel Museum, one of the leading art and archaeology museums in the world.
Construction began in December 1999, with the fabric of the building being completed in November 2000.
Emanuel Forchhammer, a professor of Pali at Rangoon College, was entrusted with the task of preserving it.
It comprises a collection of crowns, earrings, nose ornaments, garments, masks and vases, finely wrought in gold and decorated with semi-precious stones.
Such collections are often displayed in the outdoor courtyards of archaeology museums and history museums.
[Hebrew] See also Burnt House – a nearby museum, showcasing the remains of another priestly mansion destroyed by the Romans in 70 CE Siege of Jerusalem (70 CE) – for a historical overview of the siege and the city's destruction == References ==
Since 1967, the museum issues its own scientific publication called Ziridava, named after the nearby Dacian settlement mentioned by Ptolemy and archaeologically identified at Pecica.
Containers specially designed for classifying, storing and conserving archaeological artefacts will be installed in the museum's storage areas, while the textiles storage area will also receive new equipment which meets international standards for conserving precious materials.
The museum was initially located in the round tower of the castle building, which also constituted the northeastern corner of the city fortifications.
Support for the museum came from Detroit philanthropists such as Charles Lang Freer, and the auto barons: art and funds were donated by the Dodges, the Firestones and the Fords, especially Edsel Ford and his wife Eleanor, and subsequently their children.
The museum's publishing activity has increased since 1985, in connection with the large special exhibitions that it has organised since then, and it now publishes around five new titles per year.
The building was constructed as a royal palace from 1928 to 1932 under the supervision of Muhammed bin Laden.
Some thieves were able to bypass the security system and steal about 220 pieces of gold and silver, including the Tumi lambayeque.
It provides a comprehensive view of the history of Dilijan, the historical development of the local people, their lifestyle, culture monuments, and historical and geographical conditions.
However, faced with the insistence of the municipal government, Buck decided to donate the collection to the Republic of Germany, which prepared to take it out of the country.
In June 1993 the plans for the museum were settled and construction of the museum building had begun.
In November 2014 the Belmopan Business Network said it was interested in reviving the Belmopan Museum.
History Plans for the museum had begun in 1944 after accidental archeological discoveries prompted by mining in the area, but it was not until October 1949, when £6500 pounds was granted for its construction that work began.
In November 2022, the Japanese government announced the designation of three hanging scrolls in the museum's collection as Important Cultural Properties.
Prior to the establishment of the museum, the site was known as the "garden of sculptures" and many Cham sculptures that had been collected in Da Nang, Quảng Nam and elsewhere had been brought there over the preceding twenty years.
The museum's most famous painting is by Mexican artist, Luis de Mena, of the Virgin of Guadalupe and castas on a single canvas.
That year, Vasile Pârvan, head of the National Museum of Antiquities, wrote a report calling for a permanent museum in Constanța; this is considered its founding charter.
It was founded in 1996 on the 660th anniversary of Amir Timur's birth and contains archaeological, ethnographic, and numismatic collections.
The building of the Museum that houses 12,235 exhibits was constructed by architects Baghdasar Arzoumanian and Shmavon Azatian and sculptor A.
Components The above definition was made by EXARC, a global network of professionals for those active in archaeological open-air museums, experimental archaeology, ancient technology and interpretation, using ICOM's definition of museums.
The Antikenmuseum Basel und Sammlung Ludwig (Basel Museum of Ancient Art and Ludwig Collection) is one of the many museums in the city of Basel, Switzerland and a heritage site of national significance.
The National Museum of Ras Al Khaimah (Arabic: متحف رأس الخيمة الوطني) is a museum located in the emirate of Ras al-Khaimah, in the north of the United Arab Emirates.
After its conversion to a public museum, the site opened and closed multiple times for various reasons, the last of which was due to the 2011 security crisis.
They feature depictions of characters from Greek and Roman mythology such as Zeus, Antiope, Ganymede and the gorgon Medusa, as well as floral and geometric motifs and images of exotic animals.
History The museum was established in 1950 with the purpose to find, collect, keep and present the cultural and historical heritage of Mostar and Herzegovina.
Exhibits include : Personal items of the martyrs traditional intrustments historical documents Artistic depictions of the martyrs` lives and sacrifice Architecture The Uganda Martyrs Museum's architecture has both modern and traditional styles.
In 2007 a new building known as "Smaragd" was opened, designed by Alfred Grazioli and Adolf Krischanitz.
After a series of renovations of the building, which was previously shared with a number of unrelated institutions, The Museum was closed between 1981 and 1994 due to renovation work.
The third satellite collection was opened in Prem Castle in 2008, presenting castles and building sites in the Reka river basin.
Prior to the 1963 Act, it was chaired by the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Lord Chancellor and the Speaker of the House of Commons.
For sculpture of Erebuni Museum in 1970 Ara Harutyunyan was awarded a diploma of the USSR Union of Architects for the sculptures on the museum building.
The museum has a permanent exhibition hall, a temporary exhibition hall and a mezanine with a display of 60 archaeological photographs taken between 1994 and 1996.
In 1580, it was acquired by the conquistador Alonso Díaz and subsequently built over in Colonial style to become the home of an elite member of Cusco society, the Viceroy Hernandez de Cabrera, for whom the mansion is named.
The museum was formed using the collections of the Armenian Ethnographical Association of the Caucasus, the Nor Nakhijevan Museum of Armenian Antiquities, the Museum of Antiquities of Ani, and the Vagharshapat Repository of Ancient Manuscripts.
The installations created by 15 artists include video and still photography, text and sound, and sculptures.
Officially, Anuradhapura Archaeological Museum was established under the prime effort of former Director General, Dr.
Collaboration with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture In June 2006, Samuel Sidibé, the director of the National Museum of Mali, signed an agreement of collaboration with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC).
Egyptian antiquities have formed part of the British Museum collection ever since its foundation in 1753 after receiving 160 Egyptian objects from Sir Hans Sloane.
The Khon Kaen National Museum (Thai: พิพิธภัณฑ์แห่งชาติขอนแก่น; RTGS: phiphitthaphan haeng chat khonkaen) was opened by King Bhumibol Adulyadej on 20 December 1972.
Over time the museum shifted its focus to the promotion of intercultural dialog, leading to its official renaming in 1996 as the Museum of Cultures.
It was the Belize City Prison until 1993, when prisoners were then transferred to the Hattieville Prison In 2002, it was restored and renovated into a national museum.
Accordingly, with the help of Nisshanka Wijeratne, who was the Anuradhapura Governor at that time, the museum was able to acquire two buildings from this grant building and the adjoining two-storey recording building.
The museum is located near Zürich Enge railway station, and can also be reached by tram line #7 and bus line #33.
In 2012, it was announced that the López Museum would be moving to a building at the Rockwell Center in Makati.
The section of the museum housed in the former home of Džemal Bijedić, the head of the Yugoslav Government who died in a plane crash in 1977 is dedicated to his life.
The Biblical Museum had several models on permant display: a model of the Temple of Salomon, of the Temple of Herod and a 19th-century model of the Tabernacle.
In 1851, the section was renamed musée américain to account for the diversity of geographical origins of its collections.
Among its collections are chisels and hatchets but despite being in a zone of colonial and Pre-Hispanic metallurgy there are no metal species from the city or its surroundings in the collection.
The Inca culture conquered all the territory of pre-Columbian Peru where they restored with great political ability the Tahuantinsuyo empire.
The two wings are connected by the Winter Garden with mosaic floors, tall palms, a fountain and topped by a dome made in copper and wrought iron.
300 BCE South America Argentina La Plata Museum Brazil Egyptian and Rosicrucian Museum – Tothmea See also List of museums of Egyptian antiquities Gordon Museum of Pathology home to Alan Billis who in 2011 was mummified in an Egyptian manner.
A group of 24 vases salvaged in 1973 from the Hokeb Ha cave in Toledo, southern Belize, was the most interesting part of the collection.
Collections Mujica acquired over 7,000 gold artifacts belonging to pre-Columbian cultures and made out of precious metals such as gold, silver and platinum, in addition to multiple textiles, ceramics, mummies and other valuables.
In March - September 2023 the Biblical Museum held an exhibition in Buitenplaats Doornburgh called EXODUS.
The Amsterdam Fund for the Arts decided in 2016 that the Bijbels Museum lost its grant for the period 2017–2020.
History The art museum was founded by Marie-Louise and Gunnar Didrichsen, who asked Finnish architect Viljo Revell to build the first of two phases in 1958 and again in 1965.
See also Museums in Basel List of museums in Switzerland External links Official website Basel museums website == Footnotes ==
The first expansion was in the mid-1930s, with two new galleries providing display space for the objects added in the 1920s and 1930s.
One was desgnied for Johann Jakob Bachofen-Merian, the father to Johann Jakob Bachofen and the other for the Swiss merchant Isaac Iselin-Roulet.
The rooftop (final floor) is a spacious terrace offering a wide view of the Nile, designed for the king to overlook the city of Helwan.
Uganda Martyrs Museum is a Ugandan museum located in Namugongo Kyaliwajjala Ward, in Kira Municipality, Wakiso District.
The project was led by Manfred Krebernik, professor of Ancient Near Eastern Studies at FSU Jena and curator of the collection, together with Peter Damerow from the MPI for the History of Science.
In 1998, the Department completed museum expansion plans with two large halls covering antiquities and three halls for heritage.
The establishment of the museum was delayed because the building was functioning as a centre to accommodate the Anuradhapura flood victims in the 1940s.
Museum The Herodian Quarter was opened to visitors during Sukkot of 1988 following extensive restoration work.
Archaeological park The permanent exhibition is based on more than a hundred years of archaeological research and is divided into two parts.
Most of the artefacts were excavated from Kaminaljuyu during the period 1994 to 1996 by the Proyecto Miraflores ("Miraflores Project").
Reportedly founded in 1915 as the Musée Henri Parmentier, its first building opened in 1919 and was designed by two French architects, M.
Ceramics, potter's wheels and other articles used in everyday life were also unearthed during excavations.
In 2012, the museum was unable to reach a purchase agreement with the collection's owner Jean Paul Barbier-Mueller.
The exhibition closes with aspects relating to cosmogony, paleontological evidence (testimonies regarding the origin and evolution of man).
Project for the Museum Between the train station and the University of Fribourg stands a 33 meter high defense tower constructed in 1415, which has been unused for decades.
The Shahrisabz Museum of History and Material Culture, also known as the Amir Temur Museum of Shahrisabz, is a museum in the city of Shahrisabz, Uzbekistan.
The first part covers the beginnings of the excavations and the material culture of the Bronze Age and Iron Age from the end of the 4th century BC to the arrival of the Romans, and the second shows renewed flourishing from the arrival of the Romans to that of the Slavs (1st–6th centuries).
Deliberately broken, but in an excellent state of preservation, in the central room of the Museum are displayed the entirely reassembled statues portraying the Nubian Pharaohs Taharqa, Tanwetamani, Senkamanisken, Anlamani, and Aspelta, who ruled Egypt in the 25th Dynasty.
Koori Mail – the entire back catalogue of the Aboriginal owned and controlled newspaper, it is a collection spanning over 20 years and representing over 35,000 pages of digitised material.
The collection consists of 3,000 pieces of Japanese and Oriental art, of which 250 to 300 are on display at any one time.
In 1957, the museum was reorganized under the leadership of Vasile Canarache and moved into a new building, now the Archbishop's Palace.
Among the artworks are ancient Egyptian, Mesopotamian, Persian, and Armenian pieces, as well as Persian art from the Islamic period.
In 1904 the museum created a separate ethnology department (Abteilung für Völkerkunde), and in 1917 the ethnographic collection became an independent institution inside the same building as the Natural History Museum.
It was developed primarily as a resource for secondary schools in the state of Victoria, to help develop an understanding of Aboriginal history and culture by explaining the importance of ancestral remains.
A 1997 guide said that the Archaeology Vault in Belmopan, which had been open for visitors to see a large collection of Mayan artifacts, had been closed for lack of funding.
Memphite Lapidarium (Mit Rahina, Egypt) See also A glyptotheque, a sculpture museum, usually stone sculptures A Lithotheque, an academic collection of natural stone samples References External links Media related to Lapidariums at Wikimedia Commons
To display them, a small museum was built in 1903 to the north of the Ananda Temple, where ancient stone inscriptions were displayed.
References External links Official website Model of Archaic Rome Media related to Museo della Civiltà Romana (Rome) at Wikimedia Commons
Publications The institute publishes research monographs and edited volumes in association with Left Coast Press who also now produce and distribute older Institute of Archaeology publications.
In addition to exhibiting and preserving, the museum also carries out various educational and scientific research projects.
A brief history of Deva and its other neighbouring citadels as well as extensive archaeological discoveries from the numerous sights in and around the Orăştie Mountains are exhibited in the museum.
References External links Iron Gates Region Museum at CIMEC Archived 2011-07-18 at the Wayback Machine
This last museum has also developed a 'museum-without-walls' through a series of underwater wreck trails.
Finally in 1992 they merged again, creating the current museum, and passing under the supervision of the now extinct National Institute of Culture.
They include 950 sculptures and Etruscan antiquities that were purchased by German archaeologist Wolfgang Helbig, Theidoit Jacobsen's broker in Rome for 25 years.
Tocopilla Museum (Spanish: Museo de Tocopilla) is a municipal archaeology museum in the Chilean city of Tocopilla located in the coast of Atacama Desert.
The buyer attempted to sell the head through the auction house Woolley and Wallis, but auctioneer John Axford realized it was stolen and passed it on to police.
Furthermore, this approach shows the relations between Islam and Judaism, between Christianity and Judaism, between Judaism and ancient Near Eastern Paganism, and thereby relativizes the claim to absolute truth by the monotheist religions.
It was characterized as a experimental, with its interdisciplinary approach to the idea of a museum.
The musée mexicain, later musée américain (Mexican Museum / American Museum), was a section of the Louvre that was dedicated to pre-Columbian art, with an initial emphasis on Mexican archaeology.
This was an act of cultural assimilation and genocide where many of the children died and were buried at these schools.
The museum is used to show archaeological objects found in Buduruwagala area and also exhibits relics belonging to Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Kandy periods.
examples of late imperial and early Christian art a complete sequence of casts of the spiral reliefs round Trajan's Column, arranged in horizontal rows at ground level to facilitate reading.
In January - April 2023 the Biblical Museum held an exhibition in Fotogalerie de Gang Haarlem called Eva, Sara en Hanna.
Two brothers, Arathoon (2 July 1864), followed by Simon (5 December 1867), served as Deputy Registrar of the Hackney Carriages Department.
Most have the mechanism set in the ground under the flowerbed, which is then planted to visually appear as a clock face with moving hands which may also hold bedding plants.
Bataille's works are held in the collections of the Lille Métropole Museum of Modern, Contemporary and Outsider Art and the Collection de l'art brut in Lausanne, Switzerland.
An additional candle is lit on each subsequent Sunday until, by the last Sunday of Advent, all four candles are lit.
Western interpretations A key distinction between Eastern and Western floral symbolism lies in the selection of flowers, which varies across cultures and complicates the idea of a universal floral language.
History The history of chabana follows hand-in-hand with the history of chadō, and within that historical milieu, chabana emerged in tandem with the rise of wabi-cha around the Momoyama period.
Phyllis regained consciousness on 11 April, but suffered from amnesia and paralysis on one side of her body.
Biography A native of Dragør, Denmark, Bergmann first began his interest in flowers as a child by making Christmas wreaths with friends.
Research and markets has estimated that the cut flower global market will reach a size of US$50.1 billion by 2030 from its current estimate of US$33.3 billion for 2022.
In 2009 she was employed by Department for Presidential Affairs of the Russian Federation in Northwestern Federal District as floral designer.
HCDA reported provisional statistics in 2015 that Kshs 62.9 billion was earned by the Kenyan cut flower industry.
It has been sued several times by the United States Department of Justice to ensure it does not engage in non-competitive behavior, namely prohibiting members from affiliating with competing flowers-by-wire services.
She created small embroideries with the character of paintings, by sewing silk, cotton, and wool onto rectangular pieces of cardboard.
The foliage plants that are most tolerant of the human environment are the most successful houseplants in the floral industry.
He edited the material of the Royal Agri-Horticultural Society from 1904 to 1920, when this publication ceased.
Plenty of add-ons and special items help to achieve a better score and make the game more challenging.
Sprigs of pear blossoms were particularly well known, and during the winters, ever-green sprigs that would have enhanced celadon ware, or given a cool elegance to whiteware were used.
One of the two anarchist bookshops in Sydney is Black Rose Books which has existed in various guises since 1982.
He is the younger brother of Atelier Hinata's owner, though his interest in flowers is passing, at best.
He wished to spend the remainder of his life at Lucknow where the gardening traditions of his family began.
DFC currently houses around 19 tenants from 11 countries that offer a diverse range of products and varieties of cut flowers, plants, foliage, fruits and vegetables.
When the stalls in the newly renovated market were auctioned off, the exorbitant prices pushed some of the growers to form another organization, named the Boston Cooperative Market, which opened in the basement of the old Music Hall.
Dendrobium chrysanthum (Meitei: khongul melei) - sharing personal history before starting a relationship.
Description Moribana uses one or more clusters of arrangements in kenzan, a holder with many sharp points into which flowers are inserted, or shippo that has holes, to replicate how water plants grow and how creatures move around in natural ponds.
While Nachoms are a rich cultural tradition, their use has been declining due to modern influences and lifestyle changes.
By the 19th century, the area had only canals, with the main one, Canal de la Viga limited the water traffic through here.
William Pannill, a resident of Palm Beach, died at his summer home in Roaring Gap, North Carolina, on June 10, 2014, at the age of 87.
The arranged flowers may be placed in Western-style rooms and entranceways, not just in the tokonoma alcove found in traditional Japanese-style rooms.
Estimates have calculated an amount of 400 million stems exported from Guatemala and Belize to North America and Europe every year.
The $10,000 prize makes her flower the costliest marigold in the world, and the costliest flower in the world at the time.
The Invercargill Tragedy was a familicide that took place in Invercargill, New Zealand on 8 April 1908.
Vase life can be affected by pre-harvest factors, such as growing conditions or genetic makeup, or post-harvest factors, such as mechanical damage, bacteria or fungi.
Publications The Victorian Kitchen Garden Companion (BBC Books, UK, 1988) ISBN 978-0-563-20710-8 Harry Dodson's Practical Kitchen Garden (BBC Books, UK, 1992) ISBN 978-0-563-36357-6 External links Harry Dodson at IMDb Obituary - Harry James Dodson (The Independent) Harry Dodson on pest control.
Flowers in the market have since originated from beyond Trinidad Valley and the Cordilleras, in other flower farms nationwide like nearby Tagaytay, Batangas, and Laguna, to Davao and Cotabato south in Mindanao.
Holding or vase solutions, which treat flowers with a mixture of carbohydrates (generally sugar), plant growth regulators, germicides, ethylene inhibitors, mineral salts, and organic acids.
These plants are more difficult to ship long distance due to the weight plus the plant quarantine regulations may preclude shipment to other nations.
Introduction Formal flower arrangements were closely related to the development of the Korean tea ceremony, and suggestions have been made that these were often corner-of-the-room arrangements on small tables using a central vessel with most often a small branch and a small group of local flowers.
The Kai yü ts'ung k'ao holds the view that Lan was male, and having him dress as a woman in contemporary plays was a "highly ridiculous" error.
The rose was the symbol of the English Tudor dynasty, and the ten-petaled Tudor rose (termed a double rose) is associated with England.
Two separate resin elements are mixed in equal proportions and poured into a silicone mould, often in an ice cube shape, with the flower inserted.
In this story, Lan is called the Barefoot Immortal (the Barefoot Immortal is normally a different Taoist immortal from Lan), and achieved immortality with help from Sun Wukong, the monkey king.
This craft had its ups and downs and by the mid-twentieth century a considerable section of the Maltese population hardly knew of the existence of ganutell and only a few had mastered the various techniques of ganutell.
Sometimes Lan strung the money on a cord (Chinese coins having a hole in the middle for stringing), letting it drag on the ground while walking along, or waving it to the time of their song.
Lan's emblem is a basket of flowers, and so this immortal is considered the patron of florists and gardeners.
Construction timeline By the time redevelopment works started in 2015 (months behind schedule), the project's timeline had increased in scope and was expected to take 10 years.
In June 2019 FTD filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection while it restructures; all customer deliveries will continue in the meantime.
Nicolai Bergmann (born June 12, 1976) is a Tokyo-based Danish flower artist and designer best known for his flower boxes, a technique that started a trend in Japan.
The Department of the Environment had been dismembered in the 1980s, and one of the cuttings was Historic Royal Palaces, which found itself looking for ways of increasing revenue and attracting a larger audience.
Flowers worn on the ears can be given as gifts to others, but those on the braid or hair are considered personal and are not gifted.
Many types of flower frogs are art pieces with holes for flower stems and a container for holding water.
Im Wha-Kong of Ewha Woman's University in Seoul, who also makes her own ceramic wares, is considered one of the greatest living developers of this art, and hosts quarterly displays of flower arrangements.
As a consequence, the number coming forward to be examined dropped off significantly, and the pass rate amongst those who did fell also.
The profession has mostly died out in countries like the United Kingdom, but still exists in others such as India.
Taiyou coined the name "Black Kirihara" after mistaking Sono's younger brother for him, noting their opposing personalities.
A flurry of patents followed the metal flower frog popularity, all claiming to save the housewife time and allow her to quickly and creatively arrange flowers.
During an intensive period of training and raising awareness, CONAP (aided by Rainforest Alliance) was able to communicate these standards to rural communities in the Mayan Biosphere Reserve which occupies much of northern Guatemala.
Recognizing her value, the State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Croatia employed her in Slunj as an agronomist.
Between 1987 and 1988, Ramsay was a member of the Picot task force, established by the New Zealand government to examine the school system with a mandate to examine management structures and cost-effectiveness.
The word ganutell is derived from the Italian cannotiglio and in fact this craft, which can also be considered to be an art, was "imported" to Malta during the eighteenth century from mainland Europe.
In 1937, King George VI and Queen Elizabeth celebrated their Coronation Year, and an Empire Exhibition was staged to mark the occasion.
Since the late 1950s, Dangwa Tranco passenger coaches have been bringing fresh flowers from Baguio City and other parts of the Cordilleras down to Manila.
The first mechanism using salvaged parts from Elie Parish Church in Fife was installed by James Ritchie & Son.
With three categories, it is one of the largest events of its kind in the region by both scale and content.
The market offers about 5,000 types of flowers and plants, mostly foreign, but there is a number of native Mexican species available, including some gathered directly from the wild.
In 1964, an Advent crown, made at home from wire coathangers and tinsel, appeared on the BBC's bi-weekly children's TV program Blue Peter.
The language of colors Floral symbolism originated in Asia and the Middle East, where certain flowers, such as the lotus, were considered sacred or at least associated with spiritual themes.
Other notable gardens included the HESCO Garden by Leeds City Council, who reconstructed an impressive and idyllic working water wheel in the grounds of the Royal Hospital.
A large civilian shelter beneath the market suffered a direct hit by a 50 kg bomb on the night of Saturday, 7 September 1940, at the height of The Blitz.
Oshibana (押し花) is the art of using pressed flowers and other botanical materials to create an entire picture from these natural elements.
Though finally achieving her goal of becoming the leader of the Social Credit party, McCarthy struggled as leader.
This also provided the opportunity for Covent Garden and Spitalfields traders to sell their stock left over from Saturday.
Ancient China The Chinese were making flower arrangements as far back as 207 BCE to 220 CE, in the Han era of ancient China.
He did not claim to be a Victorian gardener himself, but he had learned his trade from men who had been, and he understood the techniques they had developed.
Some, such as the Japanese kenzan, are utilitarian metal devices that fit into a vase or bowl and fix the stems by metal needles.
The England national rugby union team and Rugby Football Union adopted the red rose as their symbol in 1871, and the rose has appeared on players' kit ever since.
Bunjinbana (文人花, "literati flowers") is a style of ikebana that is inspired by traditional Chinese landscapes.
For continuous elements such as the facades of buildings and skies, the area is filled with flat colour, while elements like roofs and windows are given firm outlines.
In 2004, Axel Köhler and Tim Trench produced a documentary film called Xateros about these commercial palm leaf collectors in Chiapas' Lacandon Jungle for the Proyecto Videoastas Indigenas de la Frontera Sur.
The show as it appears today was started in 1986 as the San Francisco Landscape Garden Show by volunteers for the Friends of Recreation and Parks in San Francisco as a fundraiser for that organization (in 2006 the organization's name changed to San Francisco Parks Trust).
The 2011 show also saw the introduction of the new Artisan garden category, which was created for designers who use natural materials.
Josephine, Agnes Joaquim's grandniece, also has an orchid named after her, the Vanda 'Josephine' (also known as Vanda Miss Joaquim 'Josephine').
1950s Cave was one of the leading players in Central Districts' inaugural season in the Plunket Shield in 1950–51, when they finished second.
But the two historic, major markets built the strong foundation of trust and quality through tenant-wholesalers who have supplied and shipped fresh flowers to customers across America for almost 100 years.
One reason for this is that most of the plant sellers here do not know the taxonomy of the native plants.
Academic career Ramsay studied at Victoria University of Wellington, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree, as well as a Diploma of Education and a Diploma of Teaching from Wellington Teachers' College.
References External links Media related to Harry Cave at Wikimedia Commons Cave, Henry Butler at DNZB Harry Cave at ESPNcricinfo
In March 1956 he played a major part in New Zealand's first victory in Test cricket when he took eight wickets in the final match of the series against West Indies.
The Black Rose was the title of a respected journal of anarchist ideas published in the Boston area during the 1970s, as well as the name of an anarchist lecture series addressed by notable anarchist and libertarian socialists (including Murray Bookchin and Noam Chomsky) into the 1990s.
He had intended to line the Abbey with trees in blossom but since the season was not favourable, he switched to field maples.
The market was opened to all imported products in 1965 after the board of directors approved a petition by one of the wholesalers.
The judge ruled that in general everyone has a right to wear any flower as suits their taste, but when socialists as a group wear red rosebuds, it becomes a party emblem.
In the early 1980s the rock ‘n roll impresario Bill Graham produced two annual flower shows at the Cow Palace.
The Society did not want to see a situation develop where its standards were eroded, and entered into negotiations with NPTC City and Guilds to write recognised qualifications at Higher Education level to replace the well-recognised and valued ICSF and NDSF.
Redevelopment By 2005, the buildings were beginning to show signs of their age, in need of modernising.
In this form, the primary stem is about as long as the diameter and depth of the container combined, with the secondary stem being around two-thirds and the ornamental stem about half the length of the primary branch.
They tend to feature: Large chrysanthemums Single chrysanthemum grown from one seedling Three-tailoring - a technique of pinching one seedling and branching it into three.
We want guests to be moved and delighted and to be changed, in some small way, by these gardens and the ideas behind them.
Sharon Reece noted in The Press in 2014 that references to the event disappeared a month after it happened, with it being largely forgotten in the modern day.
In Vander Zalm's initial cabinet, she was named Deputy Premier of British Columbia and Minister of Economic Development.
The culture of flower and fruit parades in the Netherlands is inscribed with the International Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity of Unesco.
Early life Born in Singapore, Hovakimian was the eldest daughter and second child of Parsick (Basil) Joaquim, an Armenian merchant and commercial agent, and Urelia Joaquim.
" A shopper's guide to the Original L.A Flower Market." Time Pot los Angeles The Original Los Angeles Flower Market.
See also Robot Rescue Ball Fighter 1001 Crystal Mazes Collection Super Swap 101 Shark Pets References External links Florist Shop's site at Teyon.com Archived 2010-10-22 at the Wayback Machine
A bough pot is a vessel for holding stems of flowers and branches to decorate an interior, especially a fireplace during summer.
Choice of materials and how much water shows in front, side, or back reflects the passing of the season.
Over the past 300+ years, plant fanciers have found these plants in tropical and subtropical areas, found they were relatively easy to propagate and found they could survive in the human environment.
When flowers start to wilt, a player can use a watering can or a sprinkler to improve their condition and prepare more valuable bouquets.
Pierre Louis Victor Lemoine (October 21, 1823 in Delme, Moselle - December 11, 1911) was a celebrated and prolific French flower breeder who, among other accomplishments, created many of today's lilac varieties.
Emerging untainted from muddy waters, the lotus embodies the idea of transcending impurities, a concept deeply rooted in Buddhist philosophy.
The PvdA version was first used in 1976–1977 by the party and El Socialista newspaper, before Cruz Novillo's version was released in time for the June 1977 general election campaign.
In November 2013, United Online spun off its floral delivery subsidiary, FTD, which became a separate NASDAQ-traded company called FTD Companies, Inc., under the symbol FTD.
If the seeds and barbs are of a different colour, then the rose is barbed and seeded of that/those tinctures.
The traditional ballad "The Rose of England" (Child 166) recounts the seizure of the crown by Earl of Richmond (who became Henry VII of England, the founder of the Tudor dynasty), using the "red rose" as an allegory for Henry.
The double Tudor rose is always depicted as white on red on a field of any other tincture and is always termed 'proper'.
and moved to Mountain View, California in 1961, where he apprenticed in growing chrysanthemums (the national flower of Japan).
It developed from the Bunjinga (文人画 "literati painting") movement among different Japanese artists of the late Edo period, who however all shared an admiration for traditional Chinese culture and paintings.
The BFA is involved with organising national competitions, and works closely with World Skills UK and the Royal Horticultural Society on presenting the profession to the public through it exhibitions and presentations.
After the Socreds returned to power in the 1975 election, McCarthy became a senior cabinet minister, serving in a variety of portfolios, under Premier Bill Bennett.
Dubai Flower Centre was developed to handle flower imports and exports, as Dubai is a major hub for the import and export of flowers and the airport required a specialist facility since these products need special conditions.
In 1945 she published her first book, Technical Floristry, believed to be the first textbook for professional florists written in the United States.
He has also developed a beautiful pyramidal headed Hollyhock from a presumed cross between Alcea rosea and Malva sylvestris.
The organisation maintains a list of registered BFA business members on the website, who agree to uphold a code of conduct.
Roses also feature prominently in the arms of the princely House of Lippe and on the seal of Martin Luther.
Towards the end of the twentieth century, the Education Division offered evening courses in ganutell and the craft started on its way to recovery.
More than 50 vendors provide floral industry professionals and the general public with exotic blooms from all corners of the earth.
Network SouthEast was pleased, saying "70 per cent of the estimated 300,000 visitors used rail and that has paid for our sponsorship many times over".
The scale and variety of product at the Flower Exchange has changed since the 1960s as the flower industry was one of the first to feel the effects of globalization.
Connolly was later commissioned to make a copy of his wedding bouquet in artificial flowers to be exhibited alongside Camilla's wedding dress at the Victoria and Albert Museum.
From a field of forty contenders, the Vanda Miss Joaquim was selected as the national flower of Singapore.
Flowers The flowers commonly called black roses do not really exist in said color, instead they actually have a dark shade, such as the "Black Magic", "Barkarole", "Black Beauty" and "Baccara" varieties.
Pressed Flower Craft Guild In the UK, the Pressed Flower Craft Guild was established in 1983 by Joyce Fenton (a pressed flower artist) and Bill Edwardes (who devised the method of framing pressed flower pictures adopted by the guild).
Similar to her aunt, she was not addressed with the title månglare (which was her official and formal profession), but as a fruit merchant.
The enduring interest and demand for cut flowers and plants were introduced to the East End by Huguenot immigrants (driven from France after 1685 by the revocation of the Edict of Nantes), together with a fascination for caged songbirds – the pub at the end of the market is called The Birdcage.
In later years, he would say that this period was the most influential of all his learning experiences.
The building served as the nexus of Chicago's floral industry until the 1950s, when the industry largely left Chicago for warmer regions of the country.
As well as flowers, the show includes other attractions such as cookery demonstrations, gala dinners, music and horse riding displays.
After receiving a degree in psychology from the University of Ulster, Connolly moved to London in the late 1980s to work for the Ministry of Defence.
That would take up the top 12 stories and the rest would be for office space, retail space, wholesale market space and restaurants.
Interflora is a flower delivery network, associated with over 58,000 affiliated flower shops in over 140 countries.
The market’s growth during the Marcos era was also due to then-First Lady Imelda Marcos and her lavish lifestyle.
History For many years the capital's main wholesale market for fruit and vegetables was at Covent Garden in central London, just as the meat market was at Smithfield, fish at Billingsgate and other food at Leadenhall Market.
Before winning her prize, Vonk received $100 from Burpee seeds the previous year along with five other gardeners for having seeds that produced close to white flowers.
The handling capacity of the centre is anticipated to exceed 300,000 metric tonnes of product throughput per annum.
They are typically ceramic, and have a body to hold water, with a number of small openings for the stems in the top.
When the flower was adopted for the Imperial Seal of Japan some families also cultivated it to signal their support and good relationship with the Imperial family.
(July 11, 1865 – January 15, 1933) was an American professional player of carom billiards in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
These outlets offer a limited selection, usually in the form of mixed bouquets and roses by the dozen.
He afterwards received a number of commissions from the Prince of Wales (the future Charles III), including for his 2005 marriage to Camilla Parker Bowles.
Owe Sandström also introduced the opening number and show feature of Stockholm International Horse Show at the Globen.
Career Percy-Lancaster's father, Percy Joseph Lancaster, was a banker and a talented amateur gardener, who went on to become the secretary of the Agri Horticultural Society of India in Calcutta, India.
In 1947 he was appointed head gardener at the Chilton Estate, near Chilton Foliat, growing flowers and vegetables for the household in an extensive walled garden, with heated greenhouses and 200 yards of cloches.
In 1998 at age 63, Matsui switched to Orchids when stiff competition from other countries arose in traditional flowers.
Chabana, however, refers specifically to the flower display in the room or space for chadō, and though it fundamentally is a form of ikebana, it comprises a genre unto its own.
The development of Ikebana and Hanakotoba (the language of flowers) in Japan is deeply intertwined with religious and philosophical traditions, particularly Shinto and Buddhism.
Polak was in charge of the network of the resistance movement gardens stretching from Banija to Istria, Croatian Littoral, and northern Dalmatia; she founded about 100 such gardens.
Wagner Archives at New York University states that the rose "has always been an important symbol with anti-authoritarian associations." The rose is used to show the end after the means, meaning "lay a rose on the grave".
The term nosegay arose in fifteenth century Middle English as a combination of nose and gay (the latter then meaning "ornament").
Flower parades are held in several countries, many of which celebrate the forthcoming of the seasons.
During the late 1930s, she worked for well-known florists Irene Hayes (at her Flower Store on Park Avenue, New York), and Constance Spry (helping organize Spry's lecture tour in the United States, and arrangements for Spry's New York flower shop).
Baroque (1600–1775) At the beginning of this period floral designs were symmetrical and oval-shaped, with asymmetric crescents and S-shapes becoming popular later on.
Her aunt was a registered månglare and sold fruit, but her business had expanded beyond what was expected of a månglare.
Following the collapse of the Paris Commune, German Chancellor Bismarck out of fear of the growing strength of the socialists in Germany had parliament pass the Anti-Socialist laws to suppress the activities of the Social Democratic Party.
After initial dismissal, the organizers indicated they would welcome RHS involvement from 1992, and RHS members were granted a reduced admission price at the 1991 show.
From the late 1980s, it was less frequently used on election posters, and reserved to communication aimed at party members; the rose was increasingly used and mentioned alone, avoiding the revolutionary reference of the fist, and the PS was often nicknamed "the rose party".
See also Advent calendar Chrismon tree Christingle Daily devotional References External links Advent wreath FAQ at the Lutheran Missouri Synod web site Advent hymns including two examples of Advent Wreath carols Advent Bible Themes
The floristry business has a significant market in the corporate and social event world, as flowers play a large part in the decor of special events and meetings.
The Society of Floristry Limited was formed in 1951 to meet the growing need for professional recognition for florists in the UK.
The show consists of three main components: approximately 15 display gardens ranging from 500 to 1,500 sq.
In the latter stage, the candidate prepares 5 floral designs, which are graded according to artistic and technical criteria specified in the AIFD Guide to Floral Design.
In 2008, Ramsay was awarded the gold medal of the American Daffodil Society, and in 2013 he won the Peter Barr Cup from the Royal Horticultural Society, for contributions to the advancement and enjoyment of daffodils.
'flower ear sprout'), is a traditional small bouquet or posy worn by Meitei women in Manipur, a state in Northeast India.
Eventually, both markets relocated to larger quarters in the 700 block of South Wall Street in Los Angeles, where they operate today as the core of the country's largest flower district.
He is also a teacher, having taught at the Spånga Gymnasium in Stockholm, where he specializes in nature and tropical animals.
Early years Lemoine was born to a family of skilled gardeners in Delme, Lorraine, France on October 21, 1823.
The word Panagbenga means "the season of blooming", the parade features flowers that celebrate the city of Baugio's spirit and dancers with flower decorated costumes.
Today it is known not only in Malta but interest has been shown from a number of European countries, North and South America and also in Japan.
Gallery References External links Southport Flower Show official website Media related to Southport Flower Show at Wikimedia Commons
The tour report in Wisden described his bowling as "always steady and reliable", but on the good batting pitches of the season he took only four wickets from 141 overs in the Tests at an average of 116.25.
In 2009, Salmon Bay moved the show to the San Mateo Event Center and announced it was closing the show.
As in classical match-3 games, a player’s task is to switch neighbouring elements (here: flowers) to match a line of the same type.
The only flower clock with two faces moved by the same system is located in Zacatlán, Puebla, Mexico.
They are often mounted on special paper, such as handmade paper, Ingres paper, Japanese paper, or paper decorated by marbling.
This tourist attraction showcases more than 120 varieties of tulips on a 55-acre farm in the Dandenong Ranges.
Karl Owe Sandström (born September 28, 1944) is a Swedish clothing designer, zoologist, safari leader, flamenco dancer, restaurateur, and florist.
See also List of development projects in Dubai References Air Freight Cargo External links UAEfreezones.com Emiratesfreezone.com Dubaicity.com Dubaifreezonesuae.com Flowersgrowing.com ofsae.com https://www.rosecharmflowers.ae/
Repeating his father's cross between Cooperia and Zephyranthes, he obtained a large number of colour variations in the ensuing hybrids named Cooperanthes.
Membership The American Institute of Floral Designers offers two designations to candidates who have demonstrated advanced professional ability of floral artistry: AIFD (Accredited in Floral Design) and CFD (Certified Floral Designer).
Exceptions to this are Coryphantha elephantidens, Nymphaea odorata, Tillandsia imperialis, Campyloneurum phyllitidis, Cupressus lusitanic and Barkeria scandens.
The increasing demand in the UK market especially on mixed bouquets encouraged more direct sales from Kenya, in contrast to the conventional auction system.
They have responded by dividing their concession area into harvest zones which allow for a 4 month fallow period.
Southport Flower Show, held at Victoria Park in Southport, is the largest independent flower show in the United Kingdom.
In recent years, a youth division was added to the pressed flower category, with the most recent winner being Kendall Wolson, a 17-year-old student from New Jersey who created a scene depicting two bears catching fish in a river.
Armed with floral dictionaries, Victorians often exchanged small "talking bouquets" or "word poesy,” called nosegays or tussie-mussies, which could be worn or carried as a fashion accessory.
They are metal alumino silicates which have a crystalline structure consisting of an assembly of tetrahedral.
To maintain membership, accredited designers are required to document continuing education in the field.
As McLean and Matheson entered the parents' bedroom, Elizabeth briefly woke, asking "what has happened?" before falling unconscious.
Patricia Easterbrook Roberts (March 17, 1910 – December 27, 1987) was an Australian-born floral designer, author, and landscape designer who worked in Australia, England and the United States.
James Reid Baxter killed his wife and five children with an iron stove scraper before shooting himself in the head with a shotgun.
History On August 18, 1910, at the Seneca Hotel in Rochester, New York at a Retail Delivery Association meeting, thirteen American florists led by John Valentine, a Denver lawyer and floral company owner agreed to serve each other's out-of-town customers by exchanging orders via telegraph.
Tatsuki Suwa Suwa is Taiyou's best friend from grade school and incidentally also a resident at Kazami Dorm.
Maryland State Police In May 1992, Wilkins was in a rented vehicle with three other family members when they were pulled over by Maryland State Police for violating the speed limit.
Federal judicial service On March 30, 2021, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate Strickland to serve as a United States district judge for the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico.
Charles Addison Gessler (May 26, 1933 – April 27, 2019) was an American criminal defense attorney who specialized in death penalty litigation.
Cappelletti made some contributions to bridge bidding including Cappelletti over notrump, Cappelletti over one-of-a-major doubled, Cappelletti two-suited cuebids.
He attended Anderson College in 1979 and 1980 and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in 1983 from the University of South Carolina.
The election was marked by an incident in which an attack ad created by a pro-Barger political action committee used a photograph of another man, Dustin Rymph, misidentified as Dungan.
He has represented notable personalities such as Fetty Wap, Ronald Isley, Remy Boy Monty, Nick E Beats and Adnan Khan aka Menace (the producer of Desiigner's hit song "Panda" which also appeared on Kanye West's The Life of Pablo album as "Father Stretch My Hands, Pt.
He became the first public defender in Winnebago County, Illinois, in 1966, and later became an Illinois state court judge.
After being arraigned on state and federal charges, Reichel characterized the federal case as politically-motivated.
Hanson wrote, "[Aguirre] has consistently gone the extra mile, and then some," and a two-step salary increase was approved.
Greenleaf represented the 12th District, which includes portions of eastern Montgomery County and southern Bucks County.
Ultimately, Jones-Wright lost the June 5, 2018 primary election outright to Summer Stephan, garnering 37.02% of the vote to Stephan's 62.62%.
Service on Colorado Supreme Court Rice was originally appointed to the Colorado Supreme Court on August 5, 1998, by Governor Roy Romer and was subsequently elevated to Chief Justice on January 8, 2014.
During Cain's time in private practice, he worked alongside future United States Senator Lindsey Graham for about three years.
He served fifteen years in the United States Army, prior to earning a Juris Doctor degree and joining the United States Air Force.
Education Young earned his Bachelor of Arts in 1989 and Master of Arts in 1994 from George Mason University, and his Juris Doctor from the West Virginia University College of Law in 1994.
The two finished in last place after checking-in at the finish mat behind Rachel Reilly and Elissa Slater and were eliminated in ninth place.
Jon Ernest DeGuilio (born 1955) is a senior United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana.
His Oregon office worked for Brandon Mayfield when he was arrested due to being erroneously linked with the 2004 Madrid train bombings by the FBI.
Career and noteworthy cases In his civilian capacity, Fleener is an attorney in his own law firm in Wyoming.
After losing employment with Time Warner as a director of communications, having worked with the company for two decades, he wrote a book called Diary of a Company Man: Losing a Job: Finding Life, published in January 2012.
Schiavo and the hospice in care of Terri Schiavo did not fall under the Act's definition of "public entities", nor was the withdrawal of the feeding tube based on discrimination against Schiavo on the basis of her disability.
Legal career Gessler graduated from USC Gould School of Law in 1961, he then worked for two years as a deputy district attorney in Los Angeles County, and two years in private practice with friends from law school.
& Process (2007) A Primer on Post-Conviction Habeas Corpus Review, Champion, June 2005 Applications for Certificates of Appealability and the Supreme Court's "Obligatory" Jurisdiction, 5 J.
Career After graduating from law school, Rice served as a law clerk for Judge Fred Winner of the United States District Court for the District of Colorado from 1975 to 1976.
Cain then worked as a partner in differently comprised firms in Seneca from 1991 until 1993, 1993 until 1996.
Federal judicial service On September 10, 1984, Norgle was nominated by President Ronald Reagan to a new seat on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois created by 98 Stat.
Federal public defender for South Dakota and North Dakota In 2010, Fulton was appointed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit as the Federal Defender for South Dakota and North Dakota.
His termination was later found to have been unlawful by the subsequent Senate investigations and report.
The Senate failed to invoke cloture on November 18, 2013, by a 53–38 vote, with Orrin Hatch voting "present".
After graduating, Krauthamer worked in the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia as a staff attorney.
Federal judicial service Schopler served as United States Magistrate Judge of the Southern District of California from September 30, 2016 to March 10, 2023.
Gray also boxed in the Golden Gloves organization at the Police Athletic League under the guidance of Michael Mordaga, Police Director.
Mary's College of Maryland Alumni Award, the Outstanding Young Men of America Award and the Delegate of the Year, as awarded by the Maryland Association of Psychosocial Services.
Two years later, he graduated from the University of Baltimore School of Law and was admitted to the Maryland Bar in 1970.
She posited that the so-labeled, zero tolerance, arrest strategy failed to cause significant reduction in a soaring crime rate in Baltimore City, but, rather, pressured police officers to make tens of thousands of arrests that did not produce criminal charges.
She did not co-sponsor the bill when it was reintroduced in 2012, but voted for it when it came up for a vote in the House.
He was Associate Circuit Judge for Laclede County from 1995 to 2004, and was Presiding Judge for the Twenty-sixth Judicial Circuit of the State of Missouri from 2005 to 2008.
Jones-Wright was endorsed by San Diego County Supervisor Monica Montgomery Steppe but was not endorsed by Vice President Kamala Harris or Governor Gavin Newsom, who had previously endorsed her run for District Attorney, instead supporting Todd Gloria's re-election bid.
Haggerty at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
After leaving the Public Defender Service in Washington, Kunen worked as an editorial page editor at Newsday on Long Island before joining People as a writer and editor.
Judge Whittemore's March 25, 2005 order denying amended motion for a Temporary Restraining Order External links James D.
After completing law school, Madsen worked as a public defender in King County and Snohomish County.
Judicial career Theis became a judge in 1983, serving as an associate judge in the Cook County Circuit Court from 1983 to 1988, a full judge in the circuit court from 1988 to 1994, and state appellate court judge from 1993 to 2010.
Guingona attended Skyline College for two years where he continued wrestling before attending the University of California at Los Angeles where he earned a B.A.
On March 15, 2001, he was sworn in as an associate justice of the Montana Supreme Court after appointment by Governor Judy Martz.
Since the introduction of the final four forced fire-making challenge, Wilson is the first castaway to win the Final Immunity Challenge, not compete in the fire-making tiebreaker, and go on to win the season.
In the 2013 elections he stated: "I have sensitivity to the separation of powers and deference to the appropriate branches of government.
Amnesty International USA et al., as Justice Breyer filed a dissenting opinion, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Kagan joined.
In 2018, an appellate court vacated Fowler's conviction, finding that the young man's confession was likely coerced.
Davis at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
Federal judicial service Haggerty was nominated by President Bill Clinton on November 19, 1993, to serve as a United States district judge of the United States District Court for the District of Oregon.
Michael James Davis (born July 21, 1947) is a senior United States district judge of the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota.
In 2021 Navarro started working with Ronald Isley, beginning with Ronald's single "Friends & Family" featuring Snoop Dogg, and has a full-album follow up to this single.
Eunice Cheryl Lee (born 1970) is an American lawyer who serves as a United States circuit judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Rice became a judge on the Denver District Court in 1987, the same year she began teaching as an adjunct professor at the University of Colorado School of Law.
Notable rulings In 2021, New York City school administrators and teachers filed suit to halt the vaccine mandate that was implemented due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
He also represented Vaughn Greenwood, who was accused of killing nine people, who he kept off California's death row.
After Pugh resigned amid the UMMS contracts controversy, Carter said that she had made a "mistake" in endorsing Pugh in 2016.
Kunen has also written articles for The New Yorker, Newsday, and New York Times Magazine, and other notable publications.
Margaret Irene Strickland (born May 24, 1980) is an American attorney serving as a United States district judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico.
He worked in the Prosecuting Attorney's Office for Laclede County from 1988 to 1995, first as an assistant prosecuting attorney from 1988 to 1989, then as a chief assistant prosecuting attorney from 1989 to 1991, and finally as a prosecuting attorney from 1991 to 1995.
For over twenty years, until 2009, she served as a federal public defender in the Eastern District of California.
He then served as an assistant public defender until 1976, when he was appointed as Chief Assistant to Mr.
On July 14, 2022, President Joe Biden nominated Schopler to serve as a United States District Judge of the same court.
Candace Rae Jackson-Akiwumi (born 1979) is an American jurist and attorney who has served as a United States circuit judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit since July 2021.
The case was remanded, as the panel's opinion stated the city's mandate was likely unconstitutional.
Awards 2009 Ridenhour Truth-Telling Prize See also Quinn Tamm (father) Edward Allen Tamm (uncle) List of whistleblowers Edward Snowden William Binney and Diane Roark Thomas Andrews Drake Mark Klein Russ Tice Perry Fellwock Hepting v.
Gessler worked as a deputy public defender for the Los Angeles County Public Defender's office for thirty-two years.
He has been a member of the Oregon State Bar since 1983 and is also a member of the New York State Bar.
While a member of the House of Delegates, he was the chair of the Joint Audit Committee from 1995 until 1997 and chair of the St.
President Biden nominated Schopler to the seat vacated by Judge Larry Alan Burns, who assumed senior status on January 22, 2021.
He left the Public Defender's Office in 1999 and established a private practice in San Francisco specializing in criminal defense.
Dungan was elected to represent Nebraska's 26th district in 2022, prevailing over opponent Russ Barger.
Early life, education, and career Davis was born to Chester Davis and Doris Ruth Smith in Cincinnati, Ohio, and grew up in Aurora, Illinois.
From 1995 to 2000, Krauthamer was an assistant professor and clinical supervising attorney at Howard University School of Law.
Jackson-Akiwumi received her Bachelor of Arts, with honors, from Princeton University in 2000 and her Juris Doctor from Yale Law School in 2005.
Wax resigned in 2014 from his position after 31 years and now works with the Oregon Innocence Project.
Education Hennesy earned a Bachelor of Arts from Central College in 1991 and a Juris Doctor from Drake Law School in 1994.
See also List of African-American federal judges List of African-American jurists References External links Roderick C.
Prior to becoming a Federal Public Defender, Fleener served on active duty as an Army Judge Advocate for nearly eight years in both the United States and Europe.
& Process 521 (2002) When Reasonable Jurists Could Disagree: The Fifth Circuit's Misapplication of the Frivolousness Standard, 3 J.
On May 20, 2010, President Barack Obama nominated Wilkins to be a judge on the District Court for the District of Columbia, to a seat vacated by Judge James Robertson, who assumed senior status on December 31, 2008.
She served as an adjunct assistant professor of clinical law at New York University School of Law from 2003 to 2019, teaching a criminal appellate defense clinic.
He was known as one of the "peaceful generals in the grassroots struggle for Medicare." Her grandmother, Dr.
Political career During the 2020 Saskatchewan election Conway came under fire from the Saskatchewan Party over social media comments made in 2018 that implied an opposition to the Alberta oil sands.
Personal life Prior to running for office, Conway was a public defender with Legal Aid Saskatchewan and was named one of Canadian Lawyer's 25 Most Influential Lawyers of 2019 for her public interest work.
Sources David Gregory Kays at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
He and his wife Shana have been instrumental in the early 21st-century revitalization of Downtown Tucson, Arizona.
Death Greenleaf died at Holy Redeemer Hospital in Meadowbrook, Pennsylvania, on February 9, 2021, at age 81.
Thomas Fleener is an American military officer and lawyer.[1] Fleener, a major in the United States Army Reserve, has been appointed to serve as a defense lawyer in the Guantanamo military commissions.
In September 2025, Anibal Hernandez Santana was accused of firing several shots into the television studio of KXTV, the local ABC affiliate in Sacramento.
This was a reality-TV show that helps Filipino Americans connect with their family and friends back in the Philippines.
Mary's County, from 1983 to 1994 and represented District 29B, which represented parts of Calvert County and St.
During the campaign, she criticized Gloria's housing and homeless policies, arguing for stricter regulations on short-term home rentals.
He was previously a Florida state trial court judge, a federal public defender, and an attorney in private practice who won a criminal case before the United States Supreme Court.
The vacancy came after the resignation of Judge Jeffrey Bryan, who was appointed by President Joe Biden to the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota.
Career She started her career at the law offices of the New Mexico Public Defender from 2006 to 2011.
Prior to attending college and law school in Arkansas, Fleener also served on active duty as an enlisted soldier.
Assistant Public Defender In 1974, his final year of law school, he accepted an internship with the Public Defenders Office in Jacksonville under Lou Frost.
Since 2000, however, the rate is" just 37 percent — even as Supreme Court opinions have grown longer and more elaborate." Contributions to law reviews Justice Kennedy, the Purposes of Capital Punishment, and the Future of Lackey Claims, 62 Buff.
From 2004 to 2016, he was an assistant United States attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of California.
He enrolled in the University of Minnesota Law School in Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he received his J.D.
Legal practice Navarro Gray was admitted to the New Jersey State Bar and the United States District Court, District of New Jersey in 2008.
He explained that he did so to focus the debate of the election on the balancing of the federal budget.
Gray received his Bachelor of Science from Hampton University in 2001 where he graduated Cum Laude with honors.
Whistleblowing A New York Times article on December 16, 2005 exposing the warrantless NSA surveillance for the first time was based on Tamm's initial tip-offs.
Post-Election Following his election loss, White assumed a position at Communities in Schools Jacksonville, a non-profit educational resource for underprivileged children.
Fullerton to become the second longest-serving Supreme Court Justice in Washington state history, behind her colleague Justice Charles W.
She attended Hong Kong International School while in Hong Kong, and Sidwell Friends School after returning to the United States.
On January 3, 2023, his nomination was returned to the president under Rule XXXI, Paragraph 6 of the United States Senate.
On March 12, 2012, Governor Mark Dayton appointed Hennesy to serve as a judge of Minnesota's Seventh Judicial District.
From 2020 to 2021, she was a partner at Zuckerman Spaeder in Washington, D.C., where she focused on complex civil litigation, white collar criminal defense, and investigations.
As a law student, she was a leader of student protests against discrimination in law school faculty hiring.
Reichel became law partners with Steve Plesser [1], a prominent Sacramento criminal defense attorney, in May 2010 with the founding [2] of Reichel & Plesser, LLP [3].
Law review articles Newton wrote for SCOTUSblog on the value of law review articles for United States Supreme Court justices.
Ellen Judith Huvelle (née Segal; born June 3, 1948) is an inactive Senior United States district judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
In the 1970s, he was a leader of the Red Tide, a newspaper and youth organization which he cofounded in 1971.
Linda Singer (born September 14, 1966) is an American attorney who served as attorney general of the District of Columbia from January 2, 2007 to January 5, 2008, and developed initiatives against gun violence.
Aguirre pushed to subpoena John Mack, a top Wall Street executive who was then under consideration by Morgan Stanley to become its CEO and had been a major contributor to the 2004 presidential campaign of George W.
Early life and education Born in Hammond, Indiana, DeGuilio earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1977 after first beginning his college career at Purdue University.
References External links Margaret Strickland at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
Cloture was subsequently invoked on January 9, 2014, by a 55–38 vote, with Orrin Hatch voting "present".
The California appellate projects are 501(c)(3) non-profit legal corporations under a contract with the California Court of Appeal to provide legal services to indigent parties on appeal from criminal, delinquency, dependency and mental health judgments in their respective district.
Timothy Martin Cain (born January 19, 1961) is the chief United States district judge of the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina.
There are five appellate project corporations, of which the California Appellate Project operates a separate project, the California Appellate Project in San Francisco, to assist in death penalty cases.
spurred him to write Reckless Disregard: Corporate Greed, Government Indifference and the Kentucky School Bus Crash, his fourth book.
Notable cases In 2014, Hurson represented Master Giddins, who was charged with bank robbery and conspiracy.
Conway's father, John Conway, is a retired sociology Professor at the University of Regina and served as a trustee for the Regina Public School Board undefeated for 18 years before he retired in 2009.
In 1992, Hotel Congress initiated Dillinger Days, a festival focusing on gangster John Dillinger's capture in relation to a 1934 fire at the hotel.
Lieutenant Colonel Wingard served as one of the attorneys for Kuwaiti detainee in Guantanamo Fayiz Al Kandari who was charged before a Guantanamo military commission in 2008.
Rhode, American Bar Association 2004) All Deliberate Speed: Reflections on the First Half-Century of Brown v.
Legal career Fulton was a judicial law clerk for Judge Diana Murphy of the United States Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals after graduating from law school.
References External links Ellen Segal Huvelle at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
In 1983, San Diego Magazine called him "a legal fireball" for his case proving PSA's liability and for his case against the Manville Corporation, which had national importance.
Ogletree appeared in the 2013 documentary film, Justice is a Black Woman: The Life and Works of Constance Baker Motley and in the 2014 documentary, Hate Crimes in the Heartland, providing an analysis of the Tulsa Race Riots.
Traynor was in private practice in Dover from 1982 to 1990 at the law firm Brown, Shiels & Chasanov, and in Wilmington from 1990 to 2014 at the law firm Prickett, Jones & Elliot.
He assumed inactive senior status on October 4, 2022, meaning that while he remains a federal judge, he no longer hears cases or participates in the business of the court.
He graduated from the University of Florida with a Bachelor of Arts in political science in 1967, and entered the University of Florida College of Law.
Armand Michael Cappelletti (April 18, 1938 – November 14, 2013) was an American lawyer most widely known as a bridge player and poker authority.
Before going into law, she was an award-winning musician and remains a strong advocate for the arts.
He was also selected in 1934 as a second-team All-American by Red Grange Universal Service and a third-team All-American by the Newspaper Enterprise Association.
In 2008, the Oserans started Maynard's Market & Kitchen at a restored railroad depot across the street; they closed the restaurant, at least for the summer, in 2025.
Education She received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Wellesley College in 1970 and a Master in City Planning from the Yale School of Architecture in 1972.
Governor Carney, a Democrat, was required to nominate a Republican to replace Holland under state law, because no party can have more than three members on the state's supreme court.
Judicial service District of Columbia superior court service Huvelle was appointed by President George H.
Among poker players he is known as the author of the books Cappelletti on Omaha, The Best of Cappelletti on Omaha, Poker at the Millennium, and How to Win at Omaha High-Low Poker, and also as columnist for the poker magazine, CardPlayer.
When one of the Schindlers' attorneys described the removal of the feeding tube as "murder", Whittemore responded "[t]hat is the emotional rhetoric of this case.
Life and education Rice was born on June 2, 1950, in Boulder, Colorado, and grew up in Colorado and Cheyenne, Wyoming.
and that he would reform the method by which indigence of clients was determined in order to reduce the number of clients receiving services.
Together, they redeveloped the boutique historic Hotel Congress, the Cup Café, Club Congress, and Maynards' Market & Kitchen.
He was the quarterback for the Illinois Fighting Illini football team from 1932 to 1934 and was selected as a first-team All-Big Ten player in 1933 and 1934.
Federal judicial service On February 16, 2011, President Barack Obama nominated Cain to a seat on the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina that had been vacated by Judge Patrick Michael Duffy who assumed senior status in 2009.
2012 presidential election Greenleaf signed up to be on the presidential ballot for the Republican Party's New Hampshire primary.
Soon thereafter, the firm, as part of a coordinated defense team, enjoyed a much publicized [4] victory when the U.S.
Ancer Lee Haggerty (born August 26, 1944) is an inactive senior United States district judge of the United States District Court for the District of Oregon.
In 1993, at the age of twenty-five, Newton handled a capital murder appeal to the United States Supreme Court.
Giddins was accused of robbing a Baltimore M&T Bank dressed as a woman when he walked into the bank, handed the teller a note saying he had a bomb and demanded money.
During the Final Tribal Council, Wilson's impassioned speech swayed seven of the ten jurors to vote for him, giving him the title of Sole Survivor.
Biography Cappelletti was born in Providence, Rhode Island, the son of carpenter Armand "Mondo" Cappelletti and Rose Marie (Carpinelli).
These lawsuits led to policy changes in five cities and gained support from the federal Justice Department, which filed statements of interest supporting the position that fixed-amount bail schemes without consideration of indigence violated the Fourteenth Amendment.
In December 2024, Dungan was selected to join the 2025-2026 Prenatal-to-Three Innovation Fellowship cohort, hosted by Future Caucus for young legislators invested in building bipartisan policy addressing key healthcare issues.
Education Strickland received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Texas at El Paso in 2003 and a Juris Doctor from New York University School of Law in 2006.
He attended Columbia University during the 1968 student protests and participated in the student sit-in at the institution's Hamilton Hall, resulting in his arrest for trespassing.
She also reintroduced Anton's Law, which passed and became law; and introduced another bill to implement a statewide police use of force policy; and supported a bill to limit no-knock warrants.
References Sources Jon DeGuilio at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
(born March 6, 1937) is an inactive Senior United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
Young then served for twelve years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia from 2002 to 2014, rising to become the Deputy Criminal Supervisor from 2012 to 2014.
Utilizing a seed grant from Harvard Law School's Public Service Venture Fund, Karakatsanis co-founded the legal nonprofit Equal Justice Under Law (EJUL) with law school classmate Phil Telfeyan in early 2014.
After gaining additional experience, he joined the United States Department of Justice's Capital Case Unit, where he litigated death penalty cases.
He was first elected as a Daly City Council member in 1993 and became the youngest mayor at age 33 in 1995.
Karakatsanis studied Ethics, Politics, & Economics at Yale University, where exposure to critical social theory influenced his perspective on society.
Awards NACDL President's Commendation for work on the Mayfield case 2004 Judge Learned Hand Award of the American Jewish Committee 2006 == References ==
He took senior status on August 26, 2009, and took inactive senior status at the end of 2014, meaning that he remains a member of the court, but no longer hears cases or participates in court business.
He later attended law school at the University of Illinois and served as a backfield coach and radio sports announcer during law school.
Cappelletti was an American Contract Bridge League (ACBL) Grand Life Master with more than 24,000 masterpoints.
Neil Fulton is an American attorney who is the 14th Dean of the University of South Dakota School of Law and was the former Federal Public Defender for the District of South Dakota and District of North Dakota from 2010 to 2019.
Geneviéve LaChelle Jones-Wright is an American attorney and activist who served as a San Diego County public defender from 2006 to 2019.
On March 4, 2010, the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary voted to send DeGuilio's nomination to the full Senate.
Winners at War He returned to compete on the show's first all-winners season, Survivor: Winners at War.
James Arthur Rice (born November 15, 1957) is an American lawyer who has served as an associate justice of the Montana Supreme Court.
Federal judicial service On March 30, 2021, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate Jackson-Akiwumi to serve as a United States circuit judge for the Seventh Circuit.
Kays was confirmed by the United States Senate on June 10, 2008, and received his commission on June 19, 2008.
She received her bachelor's degree from Loyola University Chicago and her Juris Doctor from the University of San Francisco School of Law.
On November 8, 2011, the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs held a hearing on his nomination and on the following day, November 9, 2011, the Committee reported his nomination favorably to the Senate floor.
Davis served as an adjunct professor at the University of Minnesota Law School from 1982 to 2013 and at William Mitchell College of Law from 1977 to 1981.
Federal judicial service In January 2009, DeGuilio informed Indiana Senator Evan Bayh of his interest in a vacant federal district judgeship.
Karakatsanis began investigating local courts in Alabama, observing cases in which individuals were jailed solely for unpaid fines and fees.
She also criticized the war on drugs and argued in favor of rolling back cannabis possession convictions and defending California's cannabis laws against federal intervention.
At the time, the Maryland State Police Department instructed their officers to focus on black males in expensive vehicles when conducting traffic stops.
He started in 1979 as an Assistant District Attorney in Brooklyn, New York and became the Public Defender in Broome County, New York from 1979 through 1983.
Notable case Haggerty was the presiding judge in the trial of White Aryan Resistance (WAR) founder and leader, Tom Metzger, over his involvement in the 1988 murder of Mulugeta Seraw by skinhead members of Portland's East Side White Pride.
Eliza's father, Stephen Orlins, has served as the president of the National Committee on United States–China Relations since 2005.
References Mayor Mike is a busy man Guingona is Daly City vice mayor Further reading Political Philosophy of Michael Guingona Official Statement of Michael Guingona Functions of the City Government and the City Council External links The People's Guide to Mayor Michael Guingona
2021 Manhattan District Attorney primary On March 5, 2020, Orlins announced her candidacy for the New York County District Attorney Democratic primary to replace incumbent district attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.
Starting in May 2024, he was evaluated for an appointment as a senior judge and assumed office later that year.
Education Chan received his Bachelor of Arts from the University of Hawaiʻi and his Juris Doctor from California Western School of Law.
Though Al Bahlul has consistently insisted that he wants to represent himself or be represented by a Yemeni attorney, the United States Defense Department's Office of Military Commissions ruled that military defense counsel must represent defendants according to military commission rules.
He was an assistant state's attorney of DuPage County, Illinois, from 1969 to 1971, and was then a deputy public defender for DuPage County from 1971 to 1973.
Wingard is a military lawyer in the United States Air Force Judge Advocate General's Corps and serves with the Pennsylvania Air National Guard.
Almost all of the hot links produced by Pittsburg Hot Link Packers were consumed within 100 miles of Pittsburg during this time.
However, dried products without these preservatives may require refrigeration or freezing to ensure safe storage for a long time.
The fruit must be fully infused with sugar to its core; larger fruit takes considerably longer than smaller ones to candy.
Limosilactobacillus fermentum is an exception as this species is not considered host adapted but nomadic Lm.
However, modern refrigeration allows for its year-round production, and it is not uncommon to see kholodets on a Russian table in summer.
The company generates revenue through direct sales to restaurants, retailers and the consumer public on its website.
Following this, a mixture of spices, ground hot chilli peppers, palm vinegar, and Feni, a local liquor, is added.
Other methods There are many different methods for drying, each with its own advantages for particular applications.
Fatback is a layer of subcutaneous fat taken from under the skin of the back of a domestic pig, with or without the skin (referred to as pork rind).
Secondary binders Often, the only binder in a forcemeat is the physical structure of the protein used.
Les Trois Petits Cochons also known as Three Little Pigs is an American charcuterie company founded in 1975 in Greenwich Village of New York City.
Since boning poultry can be difficult and time-consuming for the novice, this is a rather elaborate dish, which is often lavishly decorated, hence its name, connoting a presentation at table that is galant, or urbane and sophisticated.
According to tradition, they are prepared in the dry season around December–March and consumed in greater quantities during the monsoon/wet season, when fish is scarce.
Founded as Les Trois Petits Cochons, French for "Three Little Pigs," the company trademarked the name derived from the fairy-tale in 1996.
Other manufacturing processes do not assure these conditions, and reduction of nitrite results in toxin production.
Salo or slanina is a European food consisting of salt-cured slabs of pork subcutaneous fat with or without skin and with or without layers of meat.
Tung lamaow (Cham: ꨓꨭꩂ ꨤꨟꨯꨱꨥ, Vietnamese: tung lò mò) or tongmo is a type of beef sausage made by the Cham community in Vietnam and Cambodia, as well as by members of their diaspora in Malaysia and Thailand.
The Goan sausage is therefore of Iberian origin and related to the Spanish Chorizo, both of which go through a process called pimenton.
Anti-hypertensive diets, such as the DASH diet, typically contain high levels of nitrates, which are first reduced to nitrite in the saliva, as detected in saliva testing, prior to forming nitric oxide (NO).
To enhance flavor, seasonings such as chili, star anise and garlic are incorporated, along with filler such as sticky rice.
It is a reagent for conversion of amines into diazo compounds, which are key precursors to many dyes, such as diazo dyes.
Dextrose is seen often in cured meat, as it not only mellows the harshness, but it also increases the moisture content of the cured product while adding less sweetness to the cured meat.
This occurs through electrophilic aromatic substitution where the intermediate nitronium (+NO2) ions attack the aromatic ring of dimethylphenol.
This sausage was introduced to Malaysia and Southern Thailand by Cham refugees who migrated from conflict-stricken Indochina during the 1970s.
2020 Leuconostoc mesenteroides (Tsenkovskii 1878) van Tieghem 1878 (Approved Lists 1980) Leuconostoc miyukkimchii Lee et al.
The heat and smoke from the fire are drawn through a connecting pipe or opening into the cooking chamber.
The differences between Tyrolean speck and bacon include different time lengths of smoking, the technique of curing it, and the fact that Tyrolean speck cures for a longer period of time than bacon does.
Consequently, the addition of at least 550 ppm of ascorbic acid is required in meats manufactured in the United States.
For example, during the 1970s, certain Norwegian farm animals began exhibiting elevated levels of liver cancer.
Sodium nitrite acts as an antioxidant in a mechanism similar to the one responsible for the coloring effect.
Debrecener Extrawurst, in variants with pieces of Gherkins (Gurkerlextra) or Paprika (Pikante Extrawurst).
Since its founding, the company has received 19 Sofi awards and in 2015, won a Cook's Illustrated award for its dijon mustard.
Meat A meat-based roulade typically consists of a slice of steak rolled around a filling such as cheese, vegetables, or other meats.
Organic nitrites In organic chemistry, alkyl nitrites are esters of nitrous acid and contain the nitrosoxy functional group.
It served Northern Italian inspired cuisine, focusing primarily on charcuterie, pizza, and seafood and emphasizing dishes that are less well known.
Common raw vegetables (in the culinary sense) used in a salad include cucumbers, peppers, tomatoes, onions, carrots, celery, radishes, mushrooms, avocado, olives, artichoke hearts, heart of palm, watercress, parsley, fennel, garden beets, and green beans.
From there, the material enters a horizontal screw conveyor, which may be hand-cranked or motorized.
Parma ham, produced without nitrite since 1993, was reported in 2018 to have caused no cases of botulism.
Salads, including layered and dressed salads, have been popular in Europe since the Greek and Roman imperial expansions.
200 – c.118 BCE), the Gauls exported salt pork each year to Rome in large quantities, where it was sold in different cuts: rear cuts, middle cuts, hams, and sausages.
Standard reduction potentials for reactions directly involving nitrous acid are shown in the table below: The data can be extended to include products in lower oxidation states.
Accordingly, the number of protein-coding genes ranges from 1,267 to about 4,758 genes (in Fructilactobacillus sanfranciscensis and Lentilactobacillus parakefiri, respectively).
The term speck became part of popular parlance only in the eighteenth century and replaced the older term bachen, a cognate of bacon.
The third style is gratin, which involves browning a portion of the main protein; the French term gratin implies a "grated" product that is browned.
The genus currently includes 31 species or subspecies, most of these were isolated from the intestinal tract of humans or animals.
If the DOM brown color is too intense, the water samples must be pretreated, and inorganic nitrogen species must be separated before measurement.
US and EU organic food regulations only allow natural casings, which can be derived from non-organically raised animals as there are no large scale slaughter plants which handle and process only organic animals and sell their casings as certified organic casings.
In the USA, 'charcuterie' is a misnomer, featuring a selection of preserved foods, especially cured meats or pâtés, as well as cheeses and crackers or bread.
The aroma of the dry leaves is described as having intense empyreumatic notes reminiscent of bacon while the liquor is known for its lingering smoky flavour.
It may be done in a smoke-roaster, a closed wood-fired oven, or a barbecue pit, any smoker that can reach above 121 °C (250 °F), or in a conventional oven by placing a pan filled with hardwood chips on the floor of the oven so that the chips can smolder and produce a smoke-bath.
The ancient Greeks prepared tarichos (τάριχος), which was meat and fish conserved by salt or other means.
Additionally, manufacturers may include α-tocopherol (vitamin E) to further inhibit nitrosamine production.
Nitrosamines have a nitroso group (NO+) that are "probable human carcinogens", bonded to a deprotonated amine.
are intrinsically resistant to vancomycin and are catalase-negative (which distinguishes them from staphylococci).
History Forcemeats are an ancient food and are included in Apicius, a collection of Roman cookery recipes usually thought to have been compiled in the late 4th or early 5th century AD.
The meat is salted and seasoned with herbs and slowly cooked submerged in its own rendered fat (never to exceed 85 °C [185 °F]), in which it is then preserved by allowing it to cool and storing it in the fat.
Tyrolean speck is cold-smoked slowly and intermittently for two or three hours a day for a period of roughly a week, using woods such as beech at temperatures that never exceed 20°C (68°F).
Various ingredients are used, which may include meat from pork, poultry, fish or beef; fat; vegetables; herbs; spices; wine; and brandy.
This minced beef is then combined with fat in a 1:5 ratio, creating a rich mixture that is packed into cleaned cow intestines.
The size and usage of natural casings are impacted by the animal they are derived from, the narrowest being lamb followed by sheep followed by pig followed by beef.
Although it is enjoyed all year round, it is traditionally served as an hors d’oeuvre on Christmas and New Year's days.
Helicobacter pylori is linked to cancer, and antibiotic resistance impedes the success of current antibiotic-based eradication treatments.
Most modern dry cure hams also use nitrites (either sodium nitrite or potassium nitrite), which are added along with the salt.
They are also served in the forms of dips, spreads, pastries, olives or nuts with or without a base of egg, cheese, meats, vegetables, seafood or breads.
Composition It is generally recommended to diversify the items on a charcuterie board in terms of type (e.g.
The intensity of the smoke aroma can be varied by locating the leaves closer to or farther from the source of heat and smoke or by adjusting the duration of the process.
When probiotic lactobacilli are administered along with the treatment as an adjuvant, its efficacy is substantially increased and side effects may be lessened.
The dish was sometimes boiled or simmered before or after straining, and sometimes left uncooked, depending on the recipe.
Romanian and Moldovan piftie Romanian and Moldovan piftie is also called răcitură (plural răcituri), derived from the Romanian rece, meaning cold.
A member of the Academy of Medicine and his son issued a 34-page summary of works completed by 1857, which proposed some solutions: not less than 91 texts exist, of which 64 edited for only the years between 1851 and 1857.
Limosilactobacillus is a thermophilic and heterofermentative genus of lactic acid bacteria created in 2020 by splitting from Lactobacillus.
Consumption Goa sausage is a versatile food, being sold everywhere from street food carts to high end restaurants, being used in sandwiches, stews, fillings in breads, soups, or eaten alone as a side with rice.
In 1983, Pittsburg Hot Link Packers, Inc., in Pittsburg, Texas, was producing 12,000 pounds of hot links per week.
See also Salt pork Szalonna, Hungarian salt pork Lardo, Italian salt pork Charcuterie Notes References Further reading Viktoriya Popovych, There Is No Ukraine Without Salo: An Analysis of the Cultural and Social Significance of Salo in Ukraine, Compass, 2023, vol 3, issue 1, pp.
See also Antipasto Brotzeit List of hors d'oeuvre Meze Ploughman's lunch Smörgåsbord Tapas == References ==
Illinois In Chicago, Illinois, hot links are typically prepared using pork, may be spiced with pepper, fennel and sage, and are typically covered with a barbecue sauce.
From this derived the French word boucane and hence the name boucanier for French hunters who used such frames to smoke meat from feral cattle and pigs on Hispaniola (now Haiti and the Dominican Republic).
Leuconostoc is a genus of gram-positive bacteria, placed within the family of Leuconostocaceae, order Lactobacillales.
This is a very water intensive process as the casings are vigorously flushed with cold water to remove blood from the mucosa which if not properly flushed during the initial processing can lead to "staining" of the casing where it becomes pink.
Fresh sausages involve the production of raw meat placed into casings to be cooked at a later time, whereas cooked sausages are heated during production and are ready to eat at the end of production.
Algeria Merguez Argentina Bondiola Chorizo Longaniza Morcilla Australia Bunnings sausage/democracy sausage (or snags); see sausage sizzle Chipolata Devon (also known as 'Polony' or 'Fritz') Kanga Bangas Saveloy Austria Blunze Bratwurst Braunschweiger, also called Dürre.
These are mainly spices and condiments, with an increasing segment of fresh fruit irradiated for fruit fly quarantine.
Before switching to vegetable oil with beef flavoring in 1990, McDonald's cooked its French fries in a mixture of 93% beef tallow and 7% cottonseed oil.
Mousseline Very light in texture, utilizing lean cuts of meat usually from veal, poultry, fish, or shellfish.
It is typically produced by the aerobic oxidation of glucose in the presence of the enzyme glucose oxidase.
Apicius documents it as a spicy, smoked beef or pork sausage originally from Lucania; according to Cicero and Martial, it was brought by Roman soldiers from Lucania.
Tinned pâté, being shelf-stable, has sometimes been included in military rations, for, among others, the French Armed Forces, whose rations have included tinned pâté for more than 100 years.
Preservation For preservation, salo is salted and sometimes also smoked and aged in a dark and cold place, where it will last for a year or more.
Privately owned by Ariane Daguin, who co-founded the company in 1985, its corporate headquarters and distribution center are in Union, New Jersey.
While drying techniques are common in Valais, Ticino and the Grisons, smoking techniques are more common in northern Switzerland.
Garden salads have a base of raw leafy greens (sometimes young "baby" greens) such as lettuce, arugula (rocket), kale or spinach; they are common enough that the word salad alone often refers specifically to garden salads.
Since fish gelatin melts at a lower temperature than the gelatins of other meats, fish aspic is more delicate and melts more readily in the mouth.
Salt-cured on its own, it becomes lardo in Italy and salo in Eastern Europe; szalonna in Hungary is salted and smoked.
The flavour and aroma of smoked lapsang souchong is described as containing empyreumatic notes, including wood smoke, pine resin, smoked paprika, and dried longan; it may be mixed with milk but is not bitter and is usually not sweetened with sugar.
Likëngë Luganega Mazzafegati Mortadella 'Nduja Salami Soppressata Zampina Italian salami Salumi are Italian cured meat products and predominantly made from pork.
The fat on the meat is necessary for the curing process as it allows the salt to soak in and preserve the meat.
Because it is consumed cold and requires prolonged cooling, it became emblematic of the winter festive table.
The name is derived from the Latin limosus "slimy", referring to the property of most strains in the genus to produce exopolysaccharides from sucrose.
N2O4, NOCl, RONO) have the same effect: HONO + R2NH → R2N-NO + H2O The nitrous acid usually arises from protonation of a nitrite.
Preparation The Goa sausage is prepared starting with large chunks of boneless pork that are sliced or chopped and heavily salted.
Smoking meat was probably common since the Neolithic, as livestock had to be slaughtered before the long winter season.
Mexico In Mexico, most cecina is of two kinds: sheets of marinated beef, and a pork cut that is sliced or butterflied thin and coated with chili pepper (this type is called cecina enchilada or carne enchilada).
Useful in all smoking applications and with any kind of animal protein, it is best used with fish where the flesh of a fish such as salmon forms a pellicle that will attract more smoke to adhere to it than would be the case if it had not been used.
In his 1699 book, Acetaria: A Discourse of Sallets, often considered the first book on salads, John Evelyn attempted with little success to encourage his fellow Britons to eat fresh salad greens.
The classic dish of quenelles de brochet Nantua or simply quenelles Nantua consists of pike quenelles with sauce Nantua, both pike and crayfish being specialties of the Nantua area.
Gammon can also served as gammon steaks, which are fried or grilled, and served in a similar manner to bacon.
Noumboulo (from Venetian nombolo: loin) is a traditional charcuterie product of the Island of Corfu.
It is metabolized to 6-phospho-D-gluconate; one gram of GDL yields roughly the same amount of metabolic energy as one gram of sugar.
Modern terrines do not necessarily contain meat or animal fat, but still contain meat-like textures and fat substitutes, such as mushrooms and pureed fruits or vegetables high in pectin.
Its origins at the intersection of two culinary worlds is reflected in its synthesis of salt-curing and smoking.
In southern Norway, grilled and wiener sausages are often wrapped in a lompe, a potato flatbread somewhat similar to a lefse.
Sausage buns are more modern, having the choris-a baked into a bun and are available at most cafés and restaurants.
More so, it is very affordable and has been reported to retain most of the nutritional properties of food if dried using appropriate drying conditions.
After drying, tung lamaow is typically grilled and served with pickled papaya or soy sauce, though it can also be prepared by steaming, frying, or incorporating it into other dishes.
The use of polyamide casings has expanded recently with the advent of various varieties and structures of casings such as multilayer casings.
Sausages with the same name in different countries may be identical, similar, or significantly different.
They usually are produced by the reaction of nitrous acid (HNO2) and secondary amines, although other nitrosyl sources (e.g.
Dopo has been rated among the top hundred restaurants in the Bay Area by the San Francisco Chronicle from 2007 to 2011.
With this unit different kinds of meat (for example beef or pork) can be mixed with each other homogeneously and/or the meat can be mixed with additives, like salt or spices, before grinding it.
Pellicle formation on meat and seafood Before cured foods are cold smoked, they can be allowed to air-dry to form a tacky outer layer, known as a pellicle.
The Goa sausage or Choris is a typical reflection of Indo-Portuguese cuisine from Goa, which once were part of Portuguese India.
In a 1665 letter to the Director of New Netherland from the Island of Curaçao there is a request to send greens: "I request most amicably that your honors be pleased to send me seed of every sort, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, etc.
The town of Yecapixtla is well known for its version of the dish, which varies from region to region.
In the past, terrines were under the province of professional charcutiers, along with sausages, pâtés, galantines, and confit.
Quenelles de brochet are prepared in many ways, but most recipes first prepare a panade, essentially a thick white sauce, then combine the panade with fish, and put the mixture through a sieve such as a tamis, yielding a forcemeat.
It is usually served in a curry, boiled or fried, accompanied by white rice or baked potatoes and sometimes also with a boiled egg.
The addition of the smoke flavour makes the lower concentration of aromatic compounds in these larger leaves, relative to the younger leaves and the bud, less relevant to the taste of the final product.
As a stand-alone food product, it is typically boiled to remove much of the salt content and to partially cook the product, then fried until it starts to develop a crisp exterior.
There is also evidence of certain lactobacilli that are beneficial in the defense of periodontal disease such as gingivitis and periodontitis.
The reported signs of sodium nitrite poisoning are as follows: Symptoms of [nitrite] poisoning can vary depending on the amount and duration of the exposure.
Some models have different attachments to add functionality, such as sausage-making, kibbe, and juicing, which have greatly broadened the way meat grinders are used.
It is a particular speciality of delis serving Montreal-style smoked meat, where slices of the fatty cut are served in sandwiches on rye bread with mustard, sometimes in combination with other, leaner cuts.
Use If there is an extended period between when guests arrive and when the meal is eaten, for example during a cocktail hour, these might serve the purpose of sustaining guests during the wait, in the same way that apéritifs are served as a drink before meals.
Subsequently, white vinegar and the juice of half an orange or lemon can be added to the meat so that it is covered.
Ammonium nitrite can be made from dinitrogen trioxide, N2O3, which is formally the anhydride of nitrous acid: 2 NH3 + H2O + N2O3 → 2 NH4NO2 Structure The nitrite ion has a symmetrical structure (C2v) symmetry), with both N–O bonds having equal length and a bond angle of about 115°.
See also Maceration (food) Confit byaldi Fruit preserves Philippine adobo Potted meat Rendang References Further reading Larousse gastronomique: the encyclopedia of food, wine & cookery, Ed.
Since the meat could not be refrigerated easily, its fresh consumption was limited to the time of slaughter.
During a year long trip traveling through Africa the two met Harvey Millstein who would later become their business partner.
Once stuffed, the intestine casing is sectioned and pierced to allow excess moisture to escape, preventing bursting as it dries.
It is then encased in natural intestine, usually together with a strip of fat, and smoked over a mixture of herbs including sage, bay laurel, thyme, terebinth, and myrtle.
Most merchants who worked outside noble manors at this time were associated with a guild, an association of persons of the same trade formed for their mutual aid and protection.
Most terrines contain a large amount of fat, although it is often not the main ingredient, and pork; many terrines are made with typical game meat, such as pheasant and hare.
The smoking of food directly with wood smoke is known to contaminate the food with carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
Phylogeny The currently accepted taxonomy is based on the List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature and the phylogeny is based on whole-genome sequences.
An important part of Chicago-style barbecue, they are commonly available at soul food barbecue restaurants on the city's West Side and South Side, often served with French fries and white bread.
The traditional Swedish falukorv is a sausage made of a grated mixture of pork and beef or veal with potato flour and mild spices, similarly red-dyed sausage, but about 5 cm thick, usually baked in the oven coated in mustard or cut in slices and fried.
A terrine (French pronunciation: [tɛ.ʁin]), in traditional French cuisine, is a loaf of forcemeat or aspic, similar to a pâté, that is cooked in a covered pottery mold (also called a terrine) in a bain-marie.
Hurdle technology uses low doses of multiple food preservation techniques in order to ensure food is not only safe but is desirable visually and texturally.
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
Instead of first cooking the livers in butter, for a parfait they are initially puréed when raw and then passed through a sieve or put in a blender before being mixed with, typically, eggs, fortified wine, shallots, thyme, garlic and cognac and cooked in a bain-marie until set.
Nitrite-containing processed meat is associated with increased risk of developing colorectal cancer.
The recipe is practically identical with German Rouladen, perhaps omitting wine and adding a wedge of hard boiled egg and/or frankfurter to the filling.
In popular culture The 1954 rhythm and blues song "Fat Back and Corn Liquor" was written by Louisiana songwriter Rudy Toombs and sung by Louis Jordan.
The sausages are also crumbled or cut and added to curries, stews, chilly fry (a sautée of vegetables and meat, usually beef), and pulão or pulav for flavour and animal protein in Goan households.
According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), processed meat causes cancer, particularly colorectal cancer.
Notable Japanese ice sculptors include Yukio Matsuo, author of "Ice Sculpture: Secrets of a Japanese Master," Mitsuo Shimizu, author of several Japanese books on ice sculpture, and Junichi Nakamura, winner of multiple world ice sculpting titles.
History Salt was hardly used as a means of preservation before the 2nd millennium BC, as the archaeological excavations carried out near salt resources seem to indicate.
The humidity of Goa made it difficult to produce European-styled sausages that would keep, and so the meat was pickled in vinegar, alcohol, and a chilli-spice mix before being placed in pig-gut.
This process was later combined with pre-curing the food in salt or salty brine, resulting in a remarkably effective preservation process that was adapted and developed by numerous cultures around the world.
Throughout much of the rest of Europe and parts of the English-speaking culinary world, speck is usually South Tyrolean speck, a type of Italian smoked ham.
Pike quenelles were invented by a chef named Bontemps to deal with the pike's "multitude of long, fine, forked bones".
The best known cecina is Cecina de León, which is made of the hind legs of a cow, salted, smoked and air-dried in the provinces of León and Palencia in northwestern Spain, and has PGI status.
GDL is pH-neutral, but hydrolyses in water to gluconic acid which is acidic, adding a tangy taste to foods, though it has roughly a third of the sourness of citric acid.
Upon addition to water, GDL is partially hydrolysed to gluconic acid, with the balance between the lactone form and the acid form established as a chemical equilibrium.
Latin America The word cecina is also used to name other kinds of dried or cured meat in Latin America.
In French cuisine, galantine (French: [galɑ̃tin]) is a dish of boned, stuffed meat, most commonly poultry or fish, that is usually poached and served cold, often coated with aspic.
Both restaurants focused on charcuterie, with menus changing on a daily basis to take advantage of timely ingredients.
Reporting $50 million in sales in 2008, D’Artagnan employs 125 people, and has a fleet of 18 trucks that deliver products to restaurants throughout the Mid-Atlantic region.
In Western European cuisine and Chinese cuisine, most casings come from pigs, but elsewhere the intestines of sheep, goats, cattle and sometimes horses are also used.
The main flavour compounds of smoked ham are guaiacol, and its 4-, 5-, and 6-methyl derivatives as well as 2,6-dimethylphenol.
Thus, participation in the event requires strength, endurance, and engineering skill as well as mastery of basic ice sculpture techniques and artistic vision.
Printing Tallow also has a use in printmaking, where it is combined with bitumen and applied to metal print plates to resist acid etching.
Limosilactobacillus reuteri has been used as a model organism to evaluate the host-adaptation of lactobacilli to the human and animal intestine and for the recruitment of intestinal lactobacilli for food fermentations.
Cured meats Nitrite (NO−2) consumption is primarily determined by the amount of processed meats eaten, and the concentration of nitrates (NO−3) added to these meats (bacon, sausages…) for their curing.
Techniques The temperature of the environment affects how quickly the piece must be completed to avoid the effects of melting; if the sculpting does not take place in a cold environment, then the sculptor must work quickly to finish the piece.
The story of the creation of the dish Peach Melba recounts that Chef Auguste Escoffier used an ice swan to present the dish.
Its style has been influenced by the California cuisine of the nearby Chez Panisse, as well as the charcuterie of Oliveto, a nearby restaurant that was one of the first in the country to have an in-house charcuterie program.
Choris-Pão has the sausages chopped (sometimes with onions and a dash of curry) and placed inside a Poi or the local bun, a chewier form of the western Indian Pav, and is a popular fast food sold by vendors during religious fairs or in cafés.
In the form of a fusion food, minced sausages are also stuffed and fried between the layers of parathas and naans.
Overview The name of this dish combines the words ꨓꨭꩂ tung meaning "intestine" and ꨤꨟꨯꨱꨥ lamaow meaning "cow" or "beef".
The bûche de Noël or "Yule log" is a traditional French Christmas cake roll, often decorated with frosting made to look like bark.
Glucono-δ-lactone (GDL), also known as gluconolactone, is an organic compound with the formula −CH(CH2OH)(CHOH)3C(O)O−.
They may also be cooked in a wide variety of non-pottery terrine moulds, such as stainless steel, aluminium, enameled cast iron, and ovenproof plastic.
Seasoning and flavoring agents Sweeteners and other flavoring agents are necessary in the production of many cured products due to the harsh flavors of the salt.
Saucisson is almost always made of pork cured with salt, spices, and occasionally wine or spirits, but it has many variants which may be based on other meats and include nuts, alcohol, and other ingredients.
Typically, a sausage is formed in a casing traditionally made from intestine, but sometimes synthetic.
See also References External links Consejo Regulador de la Indicación Geográfica Protegida "Cecina de León", PGI Consortium Cecina de León elaboration
Job requirements As with most hands-on cooking positions, a garde manger chef needs fine motor skills and physical stamina, as well as cooking skills and knowledge of food safety.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
They are frequently seen on restaurant menus in Goa despite neither flat bread being endemic to the region.
Phenol and other phenolic compounds in wood smoke are both antioxidants, which slow rancidification of animal fats, and antimicrobials, which slow bacterial growth.
Speck can be cut into thick strips and added to pasta sauces or any dish beginning with a soffritto of olive oil and chopped vegetables.
Texas In Texas, the hot link is typically prepared with beef, and is usually cooked over indirect heat.
Three types are made in Switzerland: grilling (blanched) sausages, raw sausages and cooking sausages.
Galantine also appears in Geoffrey Chaucer's "To Rosamond", parodying extravagant declarations of courtly love: See also Chicken galantina Ballotine Head cheese List of stuffed dishes Terrine Turducken References External links Peter Hertzmann on galantine
This term encompasses dishes like braciole (a roulade consisting of beef, pork or chicken usually filled with Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs and eggs) and saltimbocca.
While nitrate is much less toxic than ammonia, levels over 30 ppm of nitrate can inhibit growth, impair the immune system and cause stress in some aquatic species.
Pliante Thin slices of meat pressed together or folded, typically alternating in colour or texture, with fat layered between.
In cuisine As an ingredient, fatback is a preferred fat for various forms of charcuterie, particularly sausages and forcemeats for pâtés and terrines.
For these reasons, it is often used as a food supply by shepherds, hunters, backpackers, and other travellers, and was issued to German and Hungarian soldiers as part of their rations during World War II.
Margaret Sullivan summarized it as "reality, spin, reality — all in one tasty, democracy-nourishing meal".
Though these words are clearly related, and are generally considered cognates, they are not specifically treated as forms of the same word, and thus are not declensions.
Sanskrit was a lingua franca among the non-Indo-European languages of the Indian subcontinent and became more of one as the spoken languages, or prakrits, began to diverge from it in different regions.
They posit that "count-classifier" and "mass-classifier" are the extremes of a continuum, with most classifiers falling somewhere in between.
In the Indo-European languages this phenomenon is mostly confined to the Celtic languages like Welsh and Irish.
See also Alternative semantics Focus Free choice inference Scalar implicature References Bibliography Chierchia, Gennaro (2004).
This means "And you, Brutus?" Brūte is the vocative case form of Brūtus, which is in the nominative case.
"Ultimate attainment in L2 phonology: The critical factors of age, motivation and instruction." Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 21, 81–108.
As John Eliot states in his 1666 Indian Grammar Begun..., "An Adnoun is a part of Speech that attendeth upon a Noun, and signifieth the Qualification thereof." References External links The dictionary definition of adnoun at Wiktionary
Murray states, "coke is used generically by thousands of people, especially in the southern half of the country." On the other hand, pop is known to be a term that is used by many citizens in the northern half of the country.
Verse 37 of the Rāmarakṣāstotram gives an example of all 8 types of declensions in Sanskrit for the singular proper noun Rāma.
Sometimes lies are too consequential to ignore, however, placing journalists in a difficult position.
A transition or linking word is a word or phrase that shows the relationship between paragraphs or sections of a text or speech.
The idea was developed by linguist George Lakoff, and the name was coined in June 2018 by Brian Stelter of CNN.
A number of contributing authors did not use the INTSINT system but preferred to use their own system.
This allocation of qualities based on abstract group association is known as third-order indexicality.
To a lover of the language of Sophocles and Plato these recent coinages may indeed appear to be Greek debased.
They may range from basic trade languages with limited vocabulary, to fully-fledged language systems, known as pidgins and creoles.
Causative mood is not to be confused with the unrelated notion of causative voice, a valency-shifting operation in many languages.
To that end, a variety of techniques may be used to reduce the subject's attention to the formality and artificiality of the interview setting.
Unlike most other languages, Kwak'wala semantic affixes phonologically attach not to the lexeme they pertain to semantically but to the preceding lexeme.
Because adjectives share these three grammatical categories, adjectives typically were placed in the same class as nouns.
Translation from languages that have word systems to those that do not, such as Latin, is similarly problematic.
("Good clothes are expensive, and it can't be helped." / "Good clothes happen to be expensive.") Er hat mich provoziert, da habe ich ihn halt geschlagen.
The causative is one of the most important ways of connecting two clauses in Inuktitut: West Greenlandic In West Greenlandic, the causative (sometimes called the conjunctive) is used to construct subordinate clauses that express cause or time (when in the past) (Fortescue 1990, p.314).
Further manifestations Ethnolects are typically employed by speakers to either decrease or increase social distance with others.
ACP 125(F) Aviation radio More formally known as "Aeronautical Mobile communications", radio communications from and to aircraft are governed by rules created by the International Civil Aviation Organization.
Examples and use Syntactically, a noun of address is a noun phrase that is isolated from the structure of its containing sentence, not being a dependent of the verb.
See also Correlative conjunction Pro-form (namely section Table of correlatives) External links The dictionary definition of correlative at Wiktionary
Fused relative clauses Fused relative clauses, sometimes referred to as "free" relative clauses, are different from most other types of relative clauses in that there is no nominal antecedent to which the relative clause refers.
For example, the proper noun Britain has the associated descriptive adjective British and the demonym Briton.
There are, however, creoles like Nubi and Sango that are derived solely from non-European languages.
However, it is very unusual for a new pronoun, for example, to become accepted in the language, even in cases where there may be felt to be a need for one, as in the case of gender-neutral pronouns.
In linguistics, an intensifier (abbreviated int) is a lexical category (but not a traditional part of speech) for a modifier that makes no contribution to the propositional meaning of a clause but serves to enhance and give additional emotional context to the lexical item it modifies.
For instance, when asked in Japanese if what one is eating is good, one might say 美味しい oishii "it's delicious" or まずい mazui "it's bad" with various particles for nuance: 美味しいよ Oishii yo (making an assertion; explicitly informing that it is good) 美味しいわ Oishii wa!
Further reading Goldenberg, Gideon "On Verbal Structure and the Hebrew Verb", in: idem, Studies in Semitic Linguistics, Jerusalem: Magnes Press 1998, pp.
Greater China The hundreds of mutually unintelligible Chinese languages contain thousands of dialects.
For example, walkathon was coined in 1932 as a blend of walk and marathon, and soon thereafter the -athon part was reinterpreted as a libfix meaning "event or activity lasting a long time or involving a great deal of something".
The various etic units that represent a given emic unit of a certain kind are denoted by a corresponding term with the prefix allo- (other, different), such as allophone, allograph, and allomorph.
The category "determiner" was developed because in languages like English traditional categories like articles, demonstratives and possessives do not occur together.
However, many speakers will prefer to use the traditionally correct counter, 頭 tō, when speaking of larger animals such as horses.
When speaking to these chiefs or to anyone of higher status, one must use honorifics (in Mortlockese called kapas pwéteete or kapas amáfel) in order to convey respect.
Words like neigh, break, outlaw, laser, microwave, and telephone might all be either verbs or nouns.
For example, in Ukrainian, "швидкий", "гарна", and "смачне" (fast, nice, tasty) become "швидко", "гарно", and "смачно" (quickly, nicely, tastily), while in Russian, "быстрый", "хороший" and "прекрасный" (quick, good, wonderful) become "быстро", "хорошо", "прекрасно" (quickly, well, wonderfully).
The relations expressed may be spatial (denoting location or direction), temporal (denoting position in time), or relations expressing comparison, content, agent, instrument, means, manner, cause, purpose, reference, etc.
Had to leave back to the hood, where they don't understand unless you speak in Trapanese." Not only was Sean trying to rhyme with the word “Japanese”, but he's jokingly combining it with the word "trap" (slang for a house used to sell drugs or the hood in general.
For example: There are exceptions, such as native Korean numbers being used with 시, meaning "hour of the day".
Sometimes such equivalences exist within a single language; for example, the genitive case in German is often interchangeable with a phrase using the preposition von (just as in English, the preposition of is often interchangeable with the possessive suffix 's).
Grammatical affect In many languages of Europe, augmentative derivations are used to express contempt or other negative attitudes toward the noun being so modified, whereas diminutives may express affection; on the other hand, diminutives are frequently used to belittle or be dismissive.
This is because language change is gradual; a language does not shift from one state to another instantaneously, but old and new linguistic features coexist for a period of time in variation with each other, as new variants gradually increase in frequency and old variants decline.
Nodes under the minimalist program Under the minimalist program, syntactic structures are formed by iterative applications of the syntactic operation Merge, which serves to connect two elements into one.
- هل يفهم المهندسون الحاسوبيّون علم الصرف فهماً عميقاً؟, available also in Arabic, Indonesian, French External links The dictionary definition of transfix at Wiktionary
The word "gig" to refer to a performance very likely originated well before the 1930s, and remained a common term throughout the 1940s and 1950s before becoming vaguely associated with the hippie slang of the 1960s.
This is interesting since both languages are West Germanic languages, making them closely related to each other.
This creole is spoken in the Caribbean coast of Costa Rica (Central America) by descendants of Jamaican people.
11-59 full text Otto Jespersen, "Language: Its Nature Development And Origin, by Otto Jespersen—The Project Gutenberg eBook".
An address merely serves to reiterate, clarify, or emphasize the connection between the speaker and the addressee, as in: You've made an excellent choice, my dear boy.
The answers to "Ydy Ffred yn dod?" ('Is Ffred coming?') are either "Ydy" ('He is (coming).') or "Nac ydy" ('He is not (coming)').
Semitic Inflected prepositions are found in Semitic languages, including Hebrew, Arabic, Assyrian Neo-Aramaic and Amharic.
In this general sense, an emic account is one that assumes insider knowledge of a phenomenon (as for example the unconscious awareness of a language's phonemic system that is assumed to be possessed by that language's native speakers).
(expressing joy; feminine) 美味しいけど Oishii kedo ("it's good but ...") まずいね Mazui ne ("it's bad, isn't it?" -- eliciting agreement) まずいもん Mazui mon (exasperated) The same can be done in Korean: 맛있어요 Masi-issoyo (Neutral, polite) 맛있군요 Masi-ittgunyo!
The strong bonds between speakers often renders explicit verbal communication unnecessary and individual expression irrelevant.
The gender of a noun (as well as its number and case, where applicable) will often require agreement in words that modify or are used along with it.
This gives the meaning of a term by pointing, in the case of an individual, to the thing itself, or in the case of a class, to examples of the right kind.
In an article about truth sandwiches at Journalism.co.uk, Joseph Cummins uses the term "backfire effect" for when "telling people that what they believe in is false [makes] them double down on their beliefs".
Replacive suprafixes Replacive suprafixes are affixes that replace suprasegmental phonemes of the base form.
This is one of the fundamental systems that a language is considered to comprise, like its syntax, its morphology and its lexicon.
Transitions "connect words and ideas so that [...] readers don't have to do the mental work for [themselves]." Transitions reveal the internal structure of an author's reasoning.
English lacks a vocative case (i.e., words are not inflected differently when they are used in address), but it sets nouns of address off from their containing sentence in speech by a particular intonational pattern, and in writing by the use of commas or sometimes dashes.
For example: There are numerous Chinese measure words, and nouns differ in what measure words they can use.
Examples of applying inflectional morphemes to words are adding -s to the root dog to form dogs and adding -ed to wait to form waited.
Demonstratives Demonstratives are deictic words, such as this and that, used to indicate which entities are being referred to and to distinguish those entities from others.
The precise number of creole languages is not known, particularly as many are poorly attested or documented.
For instance, in Western Europe until the 17th century, most scholarly works had been written in Latin, which was serving as a lingua franca.
Pontianak Teochew Pontianak Teochew is a variety of Indonesian Teochew that is spoken in the capital city of Pontianak in the province of West Kalimantan.
Association with geography A commonly studied source of variation is regional dialects (regiolects).
The English term, which first appeared in 1548, is partly borrowed from Latin (syntaxis) and Greek, though the Latin term developed from Greek.
A similar situation, but with a greater degree of mutual unintelligibility, has been termed a language cluster.
had strong local ties and interacted with many other speakers in the community), and less likely if their networks were looser (i.e.
This word has been offered as a replacement term because many linguists have noted that the addition of suprasegmental phonemes is added neither above nor below the segmental phonemes; instead it is affixed altogether.
Analogously, in Korean jang (장; 張) is used to count sheets or anything that is a paper-like material, for example: In fact, the meanings of counter words are frequently extended in metaphorical or other image-based ways.
In English, the particle O can be used, particularly in archaic, poetic, or literary contexts and in set phrases, to add emphasis to any noun of address, as in, "Arise, O Lord." This usage is distinct from interjectional oh, although the two are subject to confusion.
In other words, a sentence such as "a cousin of mine, the one about whom I was talking the other day—the one who lives in Houston, not the one in Dallas—called me up yesterday to tell me the very same story about Mary, who..." is most likely to be found in conversation, not as a newspaper headline.
are used without articles and so can be regarded as possessive determiners whereas their Italian equivalents mio etc.
In Turkish, the same word usually serves as adjective and adverb: iyi bir kız ("a good girl"), iyi anlamak ("to understand well").
However, this assumption neglects Asian Americans who are less fortunate and may experience poverty.
Put together in speech, they can create comprehensible sentences, such as "I'm not sure" + "if they're" + "they're going" to form "I'm not sure if they're going".
Speechome in linguistics is different from other common biological -omes such as genome, proteome, and expressome in that it is not biological.
In addition, verbs can be non-finite (not inflected for person, number, tense, etc.), such special forms as infinitives, participles or gerunds.
For instance, in English no extra word is needed when saying "three people", but in many East Asian languages a numeral classifier is added, just as a measure word is added for uncountable nouns in English.
In English, examples of correlative pairs are both–and, either–or, neither–nor, the–the ("the more the better"), so–that ("it ate so much food that it burst"), and if–then.
Business A 2010 Stanford Graduate School of Business study found that, in quarterly earnings conference calls, deceptive CEOs use a greater percent quantity of "extreme positive emotions words" than do CEOs telling the truth.
Although there is some evidence that linguistically sensitive approaches are helpful, there are gaps in and questions about these approaches which require new research.
Over the succeeding decades, many literary figures turned a hand to grammar in English; Alexander Gill, Ben Jonson, Joshua Poole, John Wallis, Jeremiah Wharton, James Howell, Thomas Lye, Christopher Cooper, William Lily, John Colet and more, all leading to the massive dictionary of Samuel Johnson.
The reference point could be the time of utterance, in which case the verb expresses absolute tense, or it could be a past, present, or future time of reference previously established in the sentence, in which case the verb expresses relative tense.
In relative clauses that are introduced as arguments to an object, the verbal elements are inflected with nominalizing morphology that is similar to that of their subject relative clause counterparts, and the subject of the embedded clause is inflected with the genitive case.
However, if a judge's authoritative written opinion uses a high rate of intensifiers, a lawyer's written appeal of that opinion that also uses a high rate of intensifiers is associated with an increase in favorable outcomes for such appeals.
History In seeking to understand the properties of language acquisition, psycholinguistics has roots in debates regarding innate versus acquired behaviors (both in biology and psychology).
Procedure words (abbreviated to prowords) are words or phrases limited to radiotelephony procedure used to facilitate communication by conveying information in a condensed standard verbal format.
The word root is often an abstract series of three consonants, though single consonant, biliteral, and quadriliteral roots do exist.
The definiens is not the meaning of the word defined, but is instead something that conveys the same meaning as that word.
For example, in the United Kingdom, Received Pronunciation of the English language is associated with the traditional upper class.
This refers to the situation in Latin and Greek (and in English), where such words are placed before their complement (except sometimes in Ancient Greek), and are hence "pre-positioned".
For example, given the word "produced", its lemma (linguistics) is "produce", but the stem is "produc-" because of the inflected form "producing".
In the Romance languages, the demonstrative pro-forms function as correlatives with the relative pro-forms, as autant–que in French; in English, demonstratives are not used in such constructions, which depend on the relative only: "I saw what you did", rather than *"I saw that, what you did".
"how many nights?" 幾日も行っていた iku-nichi mo itte ita "I was gone for many days." Counters are similar in function to the word "pieces" in "two pieces of paper" or "cups" in "two cups of coffee".
See also Sabir language Pidgin Creole language Mixed language Language contact Lingua franca References Further reading Bakker, Peter & Yaron Matras (eds), 2013.
Another reason for the appearance of count-classifiers may have been to avoid confusion or ambiguity that could have arisen from counting items using only mass-classifiers—i.e.
Prowords are voice versions of the much older procedural signs for Morse code which were first developed in the 1860s for Morse telegraphy, and their meaning is identical.
Korean particles Korean noun particles are postpositional, following the word they mark, as opposed to prepositions which precede the marked word.
It is also possible for a classifier alone to qualify a noun, the numeral being omitted, as in Specialized uses In addition to their uses with numbers and demonstratives, classifiers have some other functions.
In this way, a particular count word may be used generally in a very open-ended manner and up to the construal or creativity of the speaker.
This result pointed to the unconscious monitoring and editing of speech that speakers do before they talk.
"these three cats".) If an adjective modifies the noun, it typically comes after the classifier and before the noun.
Affluent Vietnamese Americans and middle-class Japanese Americans are shown to align to more standard English varieties, while Laotians and other Southeast Asians have more vernacular speech patterns.
Because of such variation in the number of categories and their identifying properties, analysis of parts of speech must be done for each individual language.
The intimate T form is marked as neutral when used reciprocally between children, relatives, students, soldiers and young people.
The main language groups in the south – Gan, Xiang, Wu, Min, Yue and Hakka – each consist of numerous mutually unintelligible languages and even more regional dialects.
The most important points of this system are the following: Only two tones, associated with pitch accents, are recognised, these being H (high) and L (low); all other tonal contours are made up of combinations of H, L and some other modifying elements.
Jargonness is a piecewise mathematical function mapping the frequencies of a word's appearance in scientific and contemporary English corpora to a parameter quantifying the word's association with scientific jargon – the "jargonness" of that word.
Japanese particles Like Korean, Japanese noun particles follow the noun being marked, and can serve any of several functions in a given sentence.
For example, the adverb glücklicherweise 'fortunately' can be analyzed as glücklicher Weise 'fortunate way [genitive]', i.e.
For more information on yes and no answers to yes–no questions in Welsh, see Jones, listed in further reading.
Chomsky posited that humans possess a special, innate ability for language, and that complex syntactic features, such as recursion, are "hard-wired" in the brain.
A truth sandwich ensures the bad information is not the first thing people read or hear, nor the final impression of a story at the end.
In grammar, a correlative is a word that is paired with another word with which it functions to perform a single function but from which it is separated in the sentence.
For instance, English dictionaries list readable and readability, words with derivational suffixes, along with their root read.
Contact languages have varying degrees of complexity, depending on the duration and intensity of social relations between the two groups.
The finality pattern is a sharp fall in pitch occurring in the last syllable of a declarative statement.
Eventually children graduate from the conscious act of recalling each word, and it becomes natural, like breathing.
An organized list of the inflected forms of a given lexeme or root word is called its declension if it is a noun, or its conjugation if it is a verb.
Overall, linguistic relativity in psycholinguistics is no longer seen as a rigid determinism of thought by language, but rather as a gradual, experience-based modulation of cognition by linguistic structures.
An example of a sociolect difference, based on social grouping, is the zero copula in African American Vernacular English.
Examples of such adverbs in English include here, there, together, yesterday, aboard, very, almost, etc.
Some languages make a distinction between answers to affirmative versus negative questions and may have three-form or four-form systems.
An enumerative definition of a concept or a term is an extensional definition that gives an explicit and exhaustive listing of all the objects that fall under the concept or term in question.
It has a quid nominis, but one could not know the real nature of hobbits, and so the quid rei of hobbits cannot be known.
One of the two stations might be slightly off frequency, there might be multipath distortion, or there might be a problem with the audio circuits on one or both of the radios.
Takemitsu says that the origin of the word rabbit, 兎 usagi, is 羽 u which describes birds feather: therefore, the counter, -wa (羽), is used for rabbits.
Phonology (formerly also phonemics or phonematics) is the branch of linguistics that concerns how languages organize the foundational elements that make their words.
("I'm afraid I have no car [at all].") At the beginning of a sentence, especially in literary contexts, gar sometimes has a different meaning and is often interchangeable with sogar or ganz: Gar die Lehrerin hat über dich gelacht!
Early in the 20th century the dominant approach in the description of English and French intonation was based on a small number of basic "tunes" associated with intonation units: in a typical description, Tune 1 is falling, with final fall, while Tune 2 has a final rise.
Most German words can be translated into English without any problems but modal particles are a challenge to translate because English has no real equivalent to them.
Suppletion: The "irregular" form was originally derived from a different root (English person → people).
Some say that slang is whatever would not be acceptable in academic or legal writing, but this fails to distinguish slang from language which is simply informal.
In many situations, there is a major lexical difference among words in the classical and colloquial speech, as well as pronunciation differences, such as a difference in short vowels, when the words are the same.
Sequencing of subject, verb, and object One basic description of a language's syntax is the sequence in which the subject (S), verb (V), and object (O) usually appear in sentences.
The development of slang is considered to be a largely "spontaneous, lively, and creative" speech process.
An example of a triconsonantal root would be ḍ–r–b (ض ر ب) in Arabic, which can be inflected to create forms such as ḍaraba 'he beat' and yaḍribu 'he beats'.
Libfixes often utilise epenthesis, as in the example of -holism and -holic which are joined with consonant-final segments via the vowel ⟨a⟩, creating work-a-holism or sex-a-holism.
Korean noun particles include the subject particle i/ga (이/가), the object-marking particle eul/reul (을/를), and the topic-marking particle eun/neun (은/는), all of which show allomorphy.
Unique head noun phrases, which include superlatives and nouns with the words only and first, also take the null relativizer.
Therefore, the syntactic rules of English care about the difference between dog and dogs because the choice between both forms determines the form of the verb that is used.
Such processes occur as a result of an underlying pattern of stress, tones or nasalization replacing a previous pattern of suprasegmental phonemes.
In English, some examples of formal greetings would be "good evening" or "it's a pleasure to meet you" or "how are you." These formal greetings not only use words, but also gestures.
Their dual function is to reflect the mood or the attitude of the speaker or the narrator and to highlight the sentence's focus.
For example, in response to the question "Which students got an A?", the utterance "Ava got an A" has an exhaustive interpretation when it conveys that no other students got an A.
In linguistics, exhaustivity is the phenomenon where a proposition can be strengthened with the negation of certain alternatives.
However, the use of singular they is often restricted to specific contexts, depending on the dialect or the speaker.
Asif Agha expands the concept by stating that "the case where the demographic dimension marked by speech are matters of geographic provenance alone, such as speaker's birth locale, extended residence and the like".
William Labov, a Harvard and Columbia University graduate, is often regarded as the founder of variationist sociolinguistics which focuses on the quantitative analysis of variation and change within languages, making sociolinguistics a scientific discipline.
Distribution with subject and object relative clauses The syntactic position or function of the relativizer in the relative clause is a major determiner for the choice of relative marker.
Constituency Constituency is the feature of being a constituent and how words can work together to form a constituent (or phrase).
Intensifiers are grammatical expletives, specifically expletive attributives (or, equivalently, attributive expletives or attributive-only expletives; they also qualify as expressive attributives), because they function as semantically vacuous filler.
The classic example of this is diglossia, in which an elevated or "high form" of a language is used in situations where more formality is called for, and a vernacular or "low form" of a language is used in more casual situations.
Yet, the selective use of elements from an ethnolect is not predictable, which then confounds the notion of code-switching.
Because of the sociohistoric similarities amongst many (but by no means all) of the creoles, the Atlantic slave trade and the plantation system of the European colonies have been emphasized as factors by linguists such as McWhorter (1999).
In grammar, an adverbial genitive is a noun declined in the genitive case that functions as an adverb.
4th century BC in Ancient India, is often cited as an example of a premodern work that approaches the sophistication of a modern syntactic theory since works on grammar had been written long before modern syntax came about.
A major theoretical issue is whether exhaustivity is a semantic entailment encoded in the grammar, a pragmatic implicature arising from Gricean social cognition, or some combination of the two.
Listed below are more atypical manifestations of using ethnolects in order to achieve certain social purposes.
The same principles have been applied to the analysis of sign languages (see Phonemes in sign languages), even though the sublexical units are not instantiated as speech sounds.
It is thus usually regarded as distinct from homonymy, in which the multiple meanings of a word may be unconnected or unrelated.
Objections to "determiner" as a universal category Many functionalist linguists dispute that the determiner is a universally valid linguistic category.
Method of use Both the frequencies ( f g {\displaystyle f_{g}} and f s {\displaystyle f_{s}} ) must be determined and then substituted in the above equation to calculate the word's jargonness.
Words are added to open classes through such processes as compounding, derivation, coining, and borrowing.
Intuitively this makes sense: it is a natural short-cut to alleviate the burden of having to "re-invent the wheel" every time we speak.
This particular noun particle denotes direction towards a place, being "supermarket." The three noun particles ("wa," "ga," and "o") all serve different functions: "wa" - topic marker ("hirugohan" - lunch) "ga" - subject marker ("watashi" - I) "o" - object marker ("piza" - pizza) == References ==
Transitions provide greater cohesion by making it more explicit or signaling how ideas relate to one another.
This is consistent with the determiner phrase viewpoint, whereby a determiner, rather than the noun that follows it, is taken to be the head of the phrase.
In non-valency marking languages such as English, a transitive verb can often drop its object and become intransitive; or an intransitive verb can take an object and become transitive.
There are numerous counters, and different counters are used depending on the kind or shape of nouns that are being described.
In linguistic morphology, a transfix is a discontinuous affix which is inserted into a word root, as in root-and-pattern systems of morphology, like those of many Semitic languages.
For instance, in addition to counting simply sheets of paper, jang in Korean can be used to refer to any number of thin, paper-like objects.
In the West, the school of thought that came to be known as "traditional grammar" began with the work of Dionysius Thrax.
The study of corpus linguistics provides us with many insights into the real nature of language, as shown above.
This sometimes happens in English as well, as in the following examples: See also Description Grammatical case Phi features Punctuation Reference Notes References Bibliography Lester, Mark; Beason, Larry (2005).
An extreme level of the theoretical quandary posed by some phonological words is provided by the Kwak'wala language.
Because over a poor quality connection the words "affirmative" and "negative" can be mistaken for one another (for example over a sound-powered telephone circuit), United States Navy instruction omits the use of either as prowords.
When the resulting language shows a rough balance between elements of both original languages, it is labelled a hybrid or mixed language.
A contact language is a language developed spontaneously by two (or more) populations, each initially speaking their own language, as they come into regular contact and find ways to communicate together – whether for trade or other reasons.
For example, the Tibetan verb སྐོལ་བ (Wylie: skol ba, IPA: [ˈkøː˥˥.wa]) means “to boil” (volitional/transitive/causative—e.g.
emphasizes juice and soda separately and equally, and ends with a decline in pitch, thus indicating that this is not a yes–no question but rather a choice question equivalent to Which would you like: juice or soda?
Meanwhile words that belong to the second declension end in -us, -um, or -er, and are usually masculine or neuter.
While Modern English does not fully retain the genitive case, it has left various relics, including a number of adverbial genitives.
Mortlockese The Mortlockese language is an Austronesian language spoken primarily on the Mortlock islands in Micronesia.
So, from żaba "a frog", besides żabucha for simply a big frog, there is augmentative żabsko to express distaste, żabisko if the frog is ugly, żabula if it is likeably awkward, etc.
Types Verbs vary by type, and each type is determined by the kinds of words that accompany it and the relationship those words have with the verb itself.
morphological word Here are examples from other languages of the failure of a single phonological word to coincide with a single morphological word form.
In Modern English, even common nouns like hen and princess and proper nouns like Alicia do not have grammatical gender (their femininity has no relevance in syntax), though they denote persons or animals of a specific sex.
The Fordson tractor especially had made tractors affordable and practical for small and medium family farms for the first time in history.
The 9N weighed 2,340 pounds (1,060 kg) and had 13 drawbar horsepower, which could pull a two-bottom plow.
It was pressed into service by the French Army in 1989 for the Gulf War, which revealed that the design needed further work.
Another sense of the name also refers to machines that use the rotary motion of disks or teeth to accomplish a similar result, such as a rotary tiller.
Power ranges from small 10 kW (13 hp) single cylinder engines, all the way up to 70 kW (100 hp) multi fuel V8 engines.
Simply put, an A-type tractor is a car converted into a tractor, while a tractor A is a slow-moving tractor (the maximum speed of tractor A is 40 km/h (25 mph)).
The DB120 needs a GPS (satellite navigation) system to guide it as there are no row markers to indicate where to position the tractor/planter.
Wabco had traditionally been a manufacturer of railway air brake systems, but ventured into construction machinery with the purchase of LeRoi air tools and industrial drills in 1952.
Micro milling can be used either as the final surface or as a treatment before applying a thin overlay.
Unlike the EPA tractor, the A-class tractor is not required to have a rigid base frame; the body can also be self-supporting.
Massive amounts of energy are required to heat the drill head, supplied via nuclear power or electricity.
The Fendt VarioDrive drive for automatic shifting of the driving ranges from the 1000 Vario series has now been integrated into the new 700 Vario models.
Oliver Heritage Magazine is a bi-monthly publication dedicated to the users, collectors, and enthusiasts of all tractors and equipment under the Oliver flag, including Oliver, White, Hart-Parr, and Cletrac.
However, the Allis-Chalmers Model G, introduced two decades later, was an interesting design that in some respects echoed the concept of the 6-12, albeit now "facing the other way", with the implement leading and the motorized drive unit now pushing rather than pulling.
The first Doe Triple-D used two Fordson Power Major units producing 100 hp (70 kW), the later Triple-D 130 used two Ford 5000 tractors increasing the power output to over 130 hp (97 kW) and the Triple-D 150 was based on Ford Force 5000 tractors producing 150 hp (112 kW).
A single infantry man sits behind the driver and has a hatch immediately above them with two vision periscopes that provide coverage of the front of the hull, as well as a large spherical firing port on the right side of the hull.
The gearbox is a manual 3-speed Lanz gearbox with a reverse gear, and an additional range, this makes 6 forward gears and 2 reverse gears.
Next to the traditional brake pedal there is a second foot pedal to activate a secondary braking system.
Unlike a skidder, a forwarder carries logs clear of the ground, which can reduce soil impacts but tends to limit the size of the logs it can move.
Due to their durability and long lifespan, older Fendt 700 generations are still available as used machines on the market.
Manufacturers such as John Deere have also begun to integrate these technologies during construction.
From the pulley and torque take-off disc, torque can either be sent to a farm implement through a belt, or to the rear axle's reduction gearbox through a chain.
References External links Data on the Rotinoff Super Atlantic by militärfahrzeuge.ch (in German) Schweizerisches Militärmuseum Full: Werksammlung Mowag GmbH Kreuzlingen (in German) Stiftung HAM Swiss Army Historic Foundation
Attachments Common forklift attachments include: Dimensioning devices – fork truck-mounted dimensioning systems provide dimensions for the cargo to facilitate truck-trailer space utilization and to support warehouse automation systems.
LeTourneau's construction machinery line gave Wabco a comprehensive range of machinery including scrapers, rubber-tyred dozers and other attachments.
Marketing The slogan "Nothing Runs Like a Deere", still used today by Deere & Co., started with the John Deere snowmobile line in 1972.
September 2017: 98 ($36.3 million) September 2018: contract extension for 180 more HMEE July 2020: 400 HMEE for the US Armed Forces ($269 million), delivery over 8 years.
In the ISO control pattern, the left hand joystick controls Swing (left & right) and the Stick Boom (away & close), and the right hand joystick controls the Main Boom (up & down) and Bucket motions (close & dump).
And later, this also determined the type of transmission used, with the smaller series using a hydrostatic drive and the larger version typically having a Power-Shift transmission.
McCormick-Deering W-6 The McCormick-Deering W-6 was the W-series version of the Farmall M, using the M's C248 engine, again in gasoline, distillate or kerosene versions.
Cheetah was submitted to the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) competition but was officially rejected from the program in August 2008.
The Type 60 armoured personnel carrier (60式装甲車, roku-maru-shiki-soukou-sha) is an armored personnel carrier that entered service with Japan Ground Self-Defense Force in 1960.
D5K Specifications Engine Gross Power: 74.5 kW (100 hp) Net Power: 71.6 kW (96 hp) Bore: 105 millimetres (4.1 in) Weight: 15,000 kilograms (33,000 lb), approx.
History The TaxiBot completed certification tests in July 2014, was approved for airport towing in November 2014, and had the first commercial flight dispatch-towed (Lufthansa LH140 from Frankfurt to Nuremberg) on November 25, 2014.
The 190XT had a power director like the D Series, but it could smoothly shift on the go just like the D series.
The model offered in 2025 is a D8 - Tier 4/Stage V, equipped with a 363 hp Cat C15 engine and an operating weight of 87083 lb.
The third type permits the grapple boom to be swung from side to side, allowing spread out trees to be grabbed at once.
Ditch Witch company restored the older model to mint condition and put it on display in the Ditch Witch museum in Perry.
Prior to starting the engine, the ignition device has to be brought to ignition temperature using a blow torch.
Its design was based on the South African RG-31 Charger class of light-armored vehicle, intended as a reconnaissance, forward command and control, and urban operations vehicle for homeland security missions.
Market exit In 1982–1984, the snowmobile market was in a downward slide, and the driving force behind the snowmobile program, executive vice president Robert Carlson, had left the company.
The "Italian Pattern" Ark Mk II (initially called "Octopus") was produced in Italy using US ramps on Churchill Mk III chassis and did not have trackways on the tank itself (vehicles drove on the tank's tracks).
The THS15 had many revolutionary design concepts, but was probably too costly to put into production in a declining market sector.
Use by Royal Canadian Air Force The Royal Canadian Air Force used blue-painted standards as aircraft tugs, out of under 2,600 standard-tread 81s made.
303 Type 60s were listed as in service in 1998, with 33 remaining in service in 2005, but none were listed as in service in 2006.
The 2010s successor Unimog 401 was presented on the DLG exhibition in Cologne in May 1953, and Unimog 2010 production was ceased in August 1953.
The vehicle carries a 142-mm demolition gun, a dozer blade, a manipulator arm, launchers for anti-tank mines, a winch and a 7.62-mm machine gun.
For example, a rotary tiller does both the "plowing" and the "harrowing", preparing a smooth, loose seedbed.
The United Nations redrew the border after the 1991 Gulf war, which ended the seven-month Iraqi occupation of Kuwait.
This configuration lowers the overall height of the crane when the boom is stowed, allowing deployment under aircraft clearance surfaces.
A modern container crane capable of lifting two 20-foot (6.1 m) long containers at once (end to end) under the telescopic spreader will generally have a rated lifting capacity of 65 tonnes.
Light weight purpose-built machines utilised in commercial logging and early thinning operations can handle payloads of up to 8 tonnes.
The equipment was developed and produced for the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) by the Turkish company FNSS Defence Systems.
The product category of row-crop tractors as we know them today had not yet been developed, and the Allis 6-12 had a very attractive value proposition.
It seemed realistic to increase the annual volume up to level of 500–600 tractors; a larger number was estimated reachable by help of subcontractors.
Before the end of the 1950s, the company bought 160 acres (650,000 m2) of land west of Perry and built a new manufacturing facility.
At the time of its launch it was found to consume 25% less fuel than comparable non-hybrid excavators and up to 40% less fuel while carrying out certain functions.
The commander sat behind and between the bow gunner and driver, while the gunner sat behind and to the right of the commander, operating a 0.5 in (12.7 mm) M2 Browning machine gun mounted of the vehicle's roof.
The ford 9N engine was a side-valve, four-cylinder engine, with a 3.19-inch (81 mm) bore, 3.75-inch (95 mm) stroke, providing a displacement of 120 cubic inches (2,000 cm3).
The first development along this line was made in 1966 by Edwin Ernst Menzi (1897–1984) and Joseph Kaiser (1928–1993), who created a prototype excavator suitable for work on mountain slopes.
From James Oliver's first chilled plow to the White Field Boss, this full-color magazine presents technical articles, history, personal stories, and tractor and machinery reviews.
Nonetheless, the Lanz HL was not primarily designed as a tractor; it is rather a self-propelled farm implement motor.
Weights XL Operating weight: 9408 kg (20,741 lb) LGP Operating weight: 9683 kg (21,347 lb) See also Heavy equipment Caterpillar D6 Caterpillar D4 == References ==
BTS-3 (Bronetankoviy TyagachSredniy – Medium Armoured Tractor) – JVBT-55A in service with the Soviet Army.
The power director did split each gear allowing for a total of 8 forward speeds and 2 reverse speeds.
Like many other tractors of the era, its model name came from its horsepower ratings, with 6-12 (or 6/12) meaning 6 hp at the drawbar and 12 hp at the belt pulley.
Recently a prototype Liquifire was uncovered in a Polaris warehouse which would have been one of the first snowmobiles to feature independent front suspension.
Usually, the differentiation had to do with whether the machine incorporated an elevated or high sprocket drive.
It uses a frameless design with the rear axle flange-mounted to a housing shaped like a "hull" that spans to the tractor's front.
After that, practical testing commended until the Type 89 was accepted into service and type classified in 1989.
The Engin Blindé du Génie (EBG; "armoured engineering vehicle") is a French military engineering vehicle.
In New Zealand, both tractor and horse drawn machines were called scoops and they were also used for railway building.
Of the infantry tanks, neither the Churchill nor Valentine could mount a turret with a high velocity gun larger than the 6-pounder, but it was proposed that a fixed superstructure could carry a larger gun with limited traverse.
Development The first walking excavators were power shovels and dragline excavators that moved by lifting plates or sections of tracked wheels to go forward, backward, or turn.
Design restrictions and specifications The maximum design speed of an A-class tractor on a horizontal road surface may not exceed 30 km/h (±10%).
The Swiss Army bought ten of them (in Atlantic and Super Atlantic configuration) in 1958, which they used to pull trailers built by Scheuerle with a payload capacity of 50 tons.
These are areas (such as schools, transport links, electrical power lines and areas beyond the site boundary) where the crane is not allowed to operate.
After 1917, Putilov Ironworks also fitted the system to a number of Austin Armoured and Rolls Royce cars.
The TaxiBot, developed by the Lahav Division of Israel Aerospace Industries, is a semi-robotic, towbarless aircraft tractor.
In early 2007, Force Protection stated that full production could begin in July 2007, but did not proceed after the May 2007 announcement that the US Marine Corps had ordered 1200 of the rival International MaxxPro vehicles.
Weight The bare weight without ballast was 2,600 lb (1,170 kg), some 1,100 lb {580 kg} less than the contemporary Model 30.
From 1978 to 1980, JD used the slogan "Big John - Little John." In 1980, another new slogan was introduced: "Ride the new breed of Deere".
The Lanz Bulldog D 9506 is a tractor of the HR 8 series, produced by Heinrich Lanz AG in Mannheim from 1934 to 1955, with a production stop in 1945.
Also, all Fendt 700 Vario models currently built comply with the European exhaust emission standard stage V.
Such functionality is necessary, given that the ground upon which the forklift operates is higher than the water level below.
The Unimog 2010 is a vehicle of the Unimog series made by German manufacturer Daimler-Benz from June 1951 to August 1953 in the Mercedes-Benz Gaggenau plant.
36 T-55AM-2s were ordered in 1999 and delivered in 1999 (aid, the vehicles were previously in Bulgarian service).
The innovative operating system Variotronic, which was introduced with the first 700 Vario generation in 1998, has been awarded internationally.
During the 1930s, experiments were made at Ford's Dearborn, Michigan, and Richmond Plantation, Georgia, facilities, creating prototypes of row-crop tricycle Fordsons, V8-powered tractors, one-wheel-drive tractors, and other ideas.
The name „Unimog 2010“ originates from the German supply firm Erhard & Söhne, which manufactured the Unimog prototypes – all technical drawings, parts and tools of that firm had the part number 2010, which is said to be the reason why Daimler-Benz simply named the Unimog 2010.
JCB used technologies of the JCB 4CX backhoe Loader and the Fastrac tractors to develop this system.
This can be done to control heights and clearances of other road structures such as: curb reveals, manhole and catch basin heights, shoulder and guardrail heights, and overhead clearances.
A 1921 prototype passed trials and the British Army placed an order, but in continuous operation the tracks wore and broke.
When the operator engages the truck hydraulic system, it activates the conveyor belt, moving the load horizontally out of the back trailer.
This left him with a double-engined four-wheel—drive tractor capable of producing more power and outperforming any of the conventional tractors on the UK market at the time.
Blade pitch is controlled either by manual turn handles, (usually both spiders are linked together) or by electric motors and switches.
The system uses an ultracapacitor bank to store energy generated by the swing movement of the upper structure of the excavator.
In the SAE control pattern, the left hand joystick controls Swing (left & right) and the Main Boom (up &down), and the right hand joystick controls the Stick Boom(away & close) and Bucket motions (close & dump).
The rear axle is a live 90°-portal-type beam axle with a single-speed reduction gearbox and a differential gearbox; the front axle – that the "hull"-shaped housing sits atop on – is a dead boogie axle that does not have steering knuckles.
The driver is provided with three fixed vision periscopes, and a single traversable periscope in the hatch.
The military versions were classified as the SNL G152 medium tractor, under the G-numbers classification system used for army tractors.
In 2024, two batches of 4 HMEE were delivered as a part of an order of 50 of these machines placed in 2023.
There are a number of different reasons for milling a paved area instead of simply repaving over the existing surface.
Current and founding editor is Sherry Schaefer, a renowned Oliver expert who has also written and contributed to several agricultural books and publications.
On 4 June 1951, makeshift production was started in the provisorily modified building 14 of the Gaggenau plant.
Kirkstall axles were used due to heavy operations of the tractor which had tire size of 18.00-25 and 14.0024 as optional to bring the vehicle to still it was equipped with compressed air brakes the drum measured 19 by 4 and 19 by 7 front and rear respectively.
It was introduced in 1938 and was the smallest diesel powered track-type tractor manufactured by Caterpillar.
The buckets were attached in sequence onto an endless moving chain that carried them down a ladder type mechanism to chew out chunks of soil, then upward to dump the spoil in neat piles on the ground as they began the downward descent to bring up more dirt.
This led to various powertrain failures, especially in earlier models due to a light rear end design.
Forwarders can haul small short pieces out, however a skidder is one of the few options for taking out some trees while leaving others when thinning mature lumber.
No contracts were procured for the Cheetah MMPV, and production ended in 2008 after 13 prototypes had been manufactured.
Draft-animal power is sometimes still used today, being somewhat common in developing nations although rare in more industrialized economies.
Uses Live bottom trailers can haul a variety of products including gravel, potatoes, top soil, grain, carrots, sand, lime, peat moss, asphalt, compost, rip-rap, heavy rocks, biowaste, etc.
The Massey-Harris Model 81 was a two-plow small-farm tractor built by Massey-Harris (later Massey Ferguson) from 1941 to 1948.
The smallest are trailers designed for towing behind all-terrain vehicles which can carry a load between 1 and 3 tonnes.
United States (around 1,600) In 2005, JCB was selected to produce what at the time was estimated to be 636 machines for $209 million.
Some, such as the steam donkeys, were relatively simple but other mechanical skidders were more complex.
These varying series have created some confusion with lineage, as the letter designation does not always correspond to when the model of machine was introduced.
In addition to the three places in the cabin, there are also two standing outside for traffic control available.
These may combine both laser and GPS guidance to establish precise grade control and (potentially) "stateless" construction.
These contacts have brought to a common definition of a Class System to which all the major manufacturers adhere.
1987: D8N (285 hp [213 kW]) with differential steer transmission, the first track-type Caterpillar tractor to have one (the new D8N was smaller than the old D8L size, which was replaced by the new D9N model).
These were known as "slip-tongue wheels" Starting in the early 1920s, animals were gradually replaced by gasoline-powered crawlers, although some small operations continue to use horses.
Accolades and awards The Ditch Witch compact trencher has twice been named "one of the 100 best American-made products in the world" by Fortune magazine.
1940s: D8 2U Series (148 hp [110 kW]) introduced 1950: D8 new front-rounded grill that would last until D8K was replaced by D8L in 1982.
After protests and the collection of approximately 6,800 signatures, the government changed its mind in 1978, and the regulations for EPA tractors and A-tractors were merged, allowing their continued use (including by young people) to this day.
The McCormick-Deering W series tractors were a range of standard-tread farming and industrial tractors produced by International Harvester that were derived from the Farmall letter series row-crop tractors of the 1940s and 1950s.
Because the vehicle provides the driver with a limited view, with many blind spots, they are equipped with multiple proximity sensors, and closed circuit TVs cameras.
It was planned to start production in the Gaggenau plant in spring 1951, but during the process of creating a new production line for the Unimog, logistical problems occurred.
In water hoisting In energy production The bucket wheel design is also used to capture the water energy in water-wheels or water turbines like Pelton wheels.
D6 Version history The D6 started out in 1935 as the RD6, fitted with a 3-cylinder 45 hp (34 kW) D6600 engine.
Buckets-ladders (buckets-chains) The buckets-ladders are used in bucket elevators or in the dredge design of some dredgers.
Largely independent of this line of evolution, most traditional excavators followed that of tractors and tanks, employing tracks or standard wheels attached to fixed undercarriage, limiting their usability on steep inclines, uneven terrain or positions beyond their safe range of operation.
Some excavators have the possibility to change the operating mode from SAE to ISO and from ISO to SAE.
Starting in 1956 the W series was integrated into the International Harvester numbering series and the McCormick-Deering branding was dropped.
Models First series WF trac WF trac 900 (92 PS (68 kW)) WF trac 1100 (105 PS (77 kW)) WF trac 1300 (136 PS (100 kW)) WF trac 1500 (150 PS (110 kW)) WF trac 1700 (177 PS (130 kW)) Second and current series WF trac The WF trac is now produced both in a 4x4 and a 6x6 version.
The tractor was designed for GCW of 200 tons with the help of a Rolls-Royce six cylinder supercharged engine producing almost 335 bhp with support of six speed main gearbox and a three speed auxiliary box for critical conditions.
Right hand left = Bucket curl in (closed) Right hand right = Bucket curl out (dump) Right hand forward = Stick Boom (Dipper) away.
In 1968 Wabco had become part of American Standard Company (known for bathroom fittings) and then it would become part of Dresser Industries in 1984.
In December 1951 a Takra with electrical starter, hydraulic three-point linkage, pulley for stationary use, power take-off and headlights was 665 000 marks; for example Fordson Major cost then just 351 500 marks.
In certain circumstances, magnetic fields could be used, but would be influenced by metalwork used inside wellbores, as well as the metalwork used in drilling equipment.
The 600 horsepower Mitsubishi 6SY31WA water-cooled diesel engine located in the front left of the hull drives an automatic transmission which in turn drives the track via drive sprockets at the front of the hull.
Commercial production Local Fordson dealers Ernest Doe & Sons agreed to build an improved version, the first one was completed in 1958 and called the Doe Dual Power, later changed to Doe Dual Drive and abbreviated to Triple-D.
McCormick-Deering W-4 The McCormick-Deering W-4 was based on the Farmall H and used the same International Harvester C152 152-cubic-inch (2,490-cubic-centimetre) displacement gasoline engine, with options for kerosene and distillate fuels.
Graders are also used to set native soil or gravel foundation pads to finish grade before the construction of large buildings.
Ti-67 – a collective designation for the Israeli-upgraded T-54s and T-55s built on tanks captured in 1967 and 1973.
With the first Churchill in position the AVRE would push the bridge out over the gap; an extra 20 ft tail on the bridge acted as a counterweight while the bridge was put in position.
The excavator then utilizes electricity discharged from the ultracapacitor bank to power a motor to assist the engine and feed the motor/generator for swing acceleration.
Engines The 81 used the same 124 in3 (2,031 cc) engine of the 101 Junior, while the 82 used a 140 in3 (2,293 cc) model.
speed: Land: 50 km/h (31 mph) Water: 10 km/h (6.2 mph) by two pump-jets Operational range: 600 km (370 mi) Max.
They were followed by a second series of 11 prototypes, including both APCs and carriers for 81-mm and 107-mm mortars, with a third series of four prototypes being completed and tested in 1959.
Ferguson's successful tractor demonstration led to a handshake agreement with Ford in 1938, whereby Ford would manufacture tractors using the Ferguson three-point hitch system.
An onboard nuclear reactor can permit a truly independent subterrene, but cooling the reactor is a difficult problem.
The D2's weight ranges from about 7,420 to 8,536 pounds (3,366 to 3,872 kilograms), depending upon the year it was manufactured.
The most recent variant is the EBG Vulcain, which has an excavator arm instead of a manipulator arm; the first one was delivered in 2020, and three more were due in 2021.
They can be quite large like those equipping Hulett cranes, used to discharge ore out of cargo ships in harbours or very small such as those used by deep-sea exploration vehicles.
Compared to the predecessor series HR 6 and HR 7, the engine now has a better speed governor, the rated engine speed was increased from 540 min−1 to 630 min−1.
The plausibility of such machines has declined with the advent of the real-world tunnel boring machines, which demonstrate the reality of the boring task.
Changes in the way earthmoving is done, including the use of excavators and dumptrucks, also eroded the market for scrapers.
See also Amphibious excavator Long reach excavator References External links Official Website Used Excavators
Performance Displacement: 8.7-12.9 L Peak horsepower: 405–682 hp Torque rise: 35–40% Fuel tank: 200 gal.
Health care providers recommend that workers who drive or use heavy equipment such as forklifts do not treat chronic or acute pain with opioids.
Milling removes anywhere from just enough thickness to level and smooth the surface to a full depth removal.
This increased the risk of collisions between cranes, particularly when their operating areas overlapped.
There is a lever to the right of the steering wheel, called the "retarding brake", used for less intense braking.
It employs more than 1,300 people, making the company the largest employer in Perry and in Noble County.
Operational control of the TaxiBot is maintained by the aircraft's pilot from the cockpit, using standard pilot controls.
Its primary function is to transport an aircraft from the terminal gate to the take-off area (taxi-out phase) and back to the gate post-landing (taxi-in phase).
Samur or SYHK (short for Seyyar Yüzücü Hücum Köprüsü) is a Turkish amphibious armoured vehicle-launched bridge.
Online information presents research that was funded by the United States Government for the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratories University of California, Los Alamos, New Mexico for a project Camelot under the heading Systems and Cost Analysis for a Nuclear Subterrene Tunneling Machine.
The trailer has a lower centre of gravity which makes it easy for the trailer to unload in an uneven area, compared to dump trailers that have to be on level ground to unload.
Belgium The FN-Kégresse 3T was a half-track vehicle used by Belgian armed forces as an artillery tractor between 1934 and 1940.
Of 71 vehicles built, 18 of the modernised EBG VAL or EBG R2 variant remained in operational service in 2018, with some others of it in long-term storage.
In 2015, Luxembourg required automatic devices to be installed to avoid the risk of collision between tower cranes.
Low-profile cranes combine the girder and boom in a single rigid structure that slides toward the land for stowage or out over the ship for operations.
Oliver Heritage is a must-have publication for anyone interested in the history of the Oliver line of machinery.
Models A total of twenty-one models were produced: Kioritz made engines for CCW, so they are the same.
Unlike roadgoing vehicles they typically lack suspensions to accommodate uneven ground conditions, indeed far less, with far less suspension travel and mobility, than modern tanks.
While the smaller Komatsu haul trucks are distinctly Japanese in design, the current line of larger trucks can trace their heritage back to American Haulpak design roots.
A forwarder is a forestry vehicle that carries big felled logs cut by a harvester from the stump to a roadside landing for later acquisition.
Those who work in industries such as the agriculture and construction benefit from the speed of unloading, versatility of the trailer and chassis mount.
The Terex THS15 Motorscraper was a concept machine scraper displayed for the first time at Minexpo 2000.
Triple-Ds are worth a great deal due to their relative rarity, even unrestored Does can demand extremely high prices at auction.
These technologies are capable of reaching 10,000–15,000 ft (3,000–4,600 m) and may reach 25,000 ft (7,600 m) when used under favorable conditions.
Horizontal directional drill rigs are developing towards large-scale, micro-miniaturization, mechanical automation, hard stratum working, exceeding length and depth oriented monitored drilling.
Designed to center-load haul trucks with capacities of up to 360 tonnes (400 short tons), the L-2350 provides an operating payload of 73 tonnes (80 short tons), a 7.03 metres (23.1 ft) lift height, and an 3.5 metres (11.5 ft) reach.
United States In the late 1920s, the US Army purchased Citroën-Kégresse vehicles for evaluation, followed by a licence to produce the tracks.
Other notable features were the rear-mounted drivetrain (there was no engine on the front module) and a hydrostatic transmission, with hydraulic wheel motors.
If a starter motor is used, the lead-battery has a capacity of 94 Ah, without a starter motor the capacity is 75 Ah.
Articulated-boom cranes have the same fixed girder, but the boom is hinged to bend as it is rotated up, with the outer portion remaining roughly level.
The regular two piece co-driver's hatch was plated over, and a small sliding hatch was installed to allow access to the Petard.
In 2005 that model of tractor broke the 24-hour ploughing World Record, turning 792 acres (321 ha) of farmland in just 24 hours.
In October 2019, Air India became the first airline to "regularly" use the TaxiBot by deploying the unit to dispatch a Delhi–Mumbai flight from Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi, one of the Top 10 airports in the world by annual passenger traffic.
The powered rotary hoe was invented by Arthur Clifford Howard who, in 1912, began experimenting with rotary tillage on his father's farm at Gilgandra, New South Wales, Australia.
The gunner sits on the left of the turret, with the commander to their right with hatches that open to the rear.
Right hand left = Bucket curl in (closed) Right hand right = Bucket curl out (dump) Right hand forward = Main Boom down.
Clamshell bucket The clamshell bucket is a more sophisticated articulated several-piece device, including two elementary buckets associated on a hinged structure forming a claws-like appendage with an internal volume.
Larger than the 8N, the Golden Jubilee featured live hydraulics and an all-new overhead valve engine.
Sources External links Citroën-Kegresse halftracks in the Polish Army Informationen über Leben und Werk von Adolphe Kégresse (German language) Register of Kegresse Track vehicles
The original walking excavators were enormous and unwieldy machines which alternately raised and lowered sets of foot plates or sections of tracks to maneuver in all directions - albeit typically very slowly.
PROTA also was an international NGO registered in Nairobi, Kenya that used information from its publications to structure a number of community projects involving over 800 farmers in Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Kenya, and Madagascar.
Endemic Bird Areas of the World: Priorities for Biodiversity Conservation represents an effort to document in detail the endemic biodiversity conservation importance of the world's Endemic Bird Areas.
They have a wide range of benefits such as anti-fever and anti-inflammatory properties, can treat diseases such as malaria and diabetes, and are used as vitamins and antibiotic and antifungal medications.
In 1992, several institutions in conjunction with native fishermen to produce a sustainable management plan for fishery resources, embodied in the Soufrière Marine Management Area.
Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB) is one of the 28 state biodiversity boards set up by the National Biodiversity Authority in India.
Features eBird documents the presence or absence of species, as well as bird abundance through checklist data.
The phylogenetic non-independence hypothesis is a third statistical explanation, specific to observed interspecific O–A relationships.
During an interview with Pincott in 2013 Screen Africa – Africa's leading broadcast and film publication – called the film "touching and profound...beautifully emphasis[ing] the deep relationship between Pincott and the elephants".
The fenestral canal is more restrictive and does not allow for the increase of space for more neurons and also does not allow the clustering of ganglion axons which makes this structure more restrictive when concerning the variation of ganglion.
The 2010 Biodiversity Target was an overall conservation target aiming to halt the decline of biodiversity by the end of 2010.
Alfred states in 2006 that the distribution record of this species from Meghalaya needs confirmation and authentication.
Genetic resources are genetic material of actual or potential value, where genetic material means any material of plant, animal, microbial or other origin containing functional units of heredity.
Sapindus thurstonii Rock Schizaeales Schizaeaceae Schizaea robusta Baker Solanales Convolvulaceae Bonamia menziesii A.Gray Cuscuta sandwichiana Choisy Ipomoea tuboides O.Deg.
Centres of endemism may overlap with biodiversity hotspots which are biogeographic regions characterized both by high levels of plant endemism and by serious levels of habitat loss.
Although African manatees live in both coastal areas and isolated inland areas, genetic evidence suggests no significant differences between the two populations.
Procedure The project developer who applies to become a "tree planter" has to make a formal request in the form of the "project".
A centre of endemism is an area in which the ranges of restricted-range species overlap, or a localised area which has a high occurrence of endemics.
Awards and screenings All the President's Elephants premiered at the 2012 Durban International Film Festival, where it was considered among the best on show.
He was allowed to assign forest districts to the population for the harvest of firewood, so-called firewood felling.
See also Endemic Bird Area List of endemic bird areas of the world List of secondary endemic bird areas of the world List of birds Lists of endemic birds Lists of birds by region Category: Lists of endemic birds by region Category: Lists of birds Endemism Biodiversity
Located nearly 2,400 miles (about 3,900 km) from the nearest continental shore, the Hawaiian Islands are the most isolated group of islands on the planet.
Furthermore, the conservation plan aims to increase patrol-based monitoring around stronghold populations, increase awareness and education about the severity of the problem, and, most importantly, implement a demand reduction strategy for pangolin meat and scales.
And at times it was evident that some of the elephants sought emotional comfort from Pincott, as one might seek from a close family member or friend".
Category 3 species, species for which permits are not required, these species are controlled, phased out, and cannot be replaced.
In 2013 it was reported that 72,000 ash trees under the threat of European chalara disease would need to be removed from the estate, to be replaced by hornbeam and oak.
Fungi have been used to make many antibiotics since Sir Alexander Flemming discovered Penicillin from the mold, Penicillium notatum.
Preparation of a country BAP may cost up to 100 million pounds sterling, with annual maintenance costs roughly ten percent of the initial cost.
The association also publishes, in conjunction with the Bund Deutscher Rassegeflügelzüchter, the German national association of poultry breeders, a separate list of the historic poultry breeds and colour varieties that were raised in Germany before 1930.
The vertebrate fauna in Cantabria presents a wide diversity thanks to the variety of ecological niches existing in the community and its geographical position, equidistant between the Mediterranean region of the peninsular south and the nearby region of Atlantic Europe.
In 2019, the UNESCO World Heritage Site where the last vaquita are located was classified as a World Heritage Site in Danger.
Other researchers have proposed the importance of finding biological substitutes for endangered species used in traditional medicines.
They identify habitat destruction as the primary threat to this species; its habitat is being lost to agricultural conversion and urbanization.
Originally the Cook Islands Natural Heritage Project, the programme came about when McCormack felt, in the course of his educational work, that there should be a list of the local flora and fauna available to locals.
It is sometimes known as the "Noah's Ark for Plants." Before he died in 2014, Theuerkauf trained and mentored twenty local women to look after the rare species of native plants, including orchids, ferns, and succulents, that he had collected from nearby land that was being cleared.
This article provides a list of sites in the United Kingdom which are recognised for their importance to biodiversity conservation.
Juveniles, lactating females, and lactating females have all been encountered in July and August, suggesting that this is a time of high reproductive activity.
It enforces Section 24 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa; promoting the conservation and sustainable use of South Africa's biodiversity.
She has discovered new species of plants and co-authors articles and co-presents seminars on rare and new species in scientific journals and conferences.
Between 1661 and 1696, a series of earthquakes set the stage for a massive flood in 1750, reshaping the region.
Alberta Biodiversity Monitoring Institute (ABMI) is an agency that monitors and reports on biodiversity status throughout the province of Alberta, Canada, that is funded equally by the government of Alberta and the oil and gas industry.
Tree planters Treedom works in collaboration with small collective of farmers, local community and NGO across different countries including Kenya, Tanzania, Guatemala, Ecuador, Italy, Haiti, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru, Italy, etc.
Like other free-tailed bats, the blunt-eared bat has a blunt tragus, a small but defined antitragus, tubular nostrils, and fusion of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae.
At the meeting, the Parties to the Convention adopted a new action plan, the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.
Tundras, Rainforests, coral reefs and deciduous forests all are formed as a result of evolutionary pressures.
During the restoration of Brown's vision required the removal of modern features inconsistent with an 18th-century design including concrete roads, car parks, telegraph poles and farm outbuildings were either demolished or buried.
Brand also criticised the position of anti-GMO activists, including Shiva, who forced Zambia's government to reject internationally donated corn in 2001-02 because it was "poisoned", as well as during the cyclone disaster in India.
On the latter Shiva argued, "emergency cannot be used as market opportunity", to which Brand responded, "anyone who encourages other people to starve on principle should do some of the starving themselves".
The other main traditional predatory threat is the puma-like fossa but increasingly feral dogs and cats introduced to the island are hunting them as well.
The Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) announced on February 27, 2021, that it may reduce the protected area for the vaquita in the Sea of Cortés as there are only ten of the porpoises left and it may never recuperate its historical range.
iboga can grow up to 10 meters tall and contains psychoactive indole alkaloids, especially ibogaine, concentrated in its root bark, which produces strong neurological effects.
Males and females both grow to roughly rabbit-size, around 1.2 kg (2.6 lb) and 33 cm (13 in), though with an additional 20–25 cm (8–10 in) of dark tail.
Status and conservation The Zoological Society of London, on the basis of evolutionary uniqueness and smallness of the population, considers Armenian birch mouse one of the 100 species of mammals at greatest risk of extinction.
The board falls under the provision of the State Biodiversity Act set up in 2008 and the Biological Diversity Act, 2002.
It is classified as endangered by the IUCN as of the 2004 Red List due to its small, isolated habitat.
Most start out their careers as a trainee under the supervision of an experienced conservation officer.
It is endemic to Chile and only known from few localities on the Valdivian Coast Range between Chanchán in the Los Ríos Region in the south and Queule (southernmost Araucanía Region) and Colequal Alto in the north; the fourth locality is Mehuín, which is the type locality.
The eastern falanouc (Eupleres goudotii) is a rare mongoose-like mammal in the carnivoran family Eupleridae endemic to Madagascar .
Although they have developed a great variety of forms as a result of adaptation to different habitats and ecological niches, the species present in Cantabria have in common their relatively small size, thick grayish-brown fur and short legs and neck.
Conservation It has only been encountered in twelve localities, four of which are less than 3 km (1.9 mi) apart.
This heritage site encompasses more than 50 hectares, including the Government Guest House complex, the mangrove area, and the creek of Ashtamudi Lake.
The species was sympatric with Rhinoderma darwinii in the region surrounding Concepcion, near the southern extremities of the distribution of Rhinoderma rufum.
Ashramam Biodiversity Heritage Site is the first Biodiversity Heritage Site in the Kerala state that came up at Asramam in Kollam city.
The Natural Heritage Project was initiated by Sir Geoffrey Henry within his Prime Minister's Department in 1990.
Parties adopted the Voluntary Guidelines for the design and effective implementation of ecosystem-based approaches to climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction.
Distribution and habitat The species is endemic to Armenia, found in mixed forests of coniferous and broadleaf trees in the area upstream of the river Marmarik.
The Cook Islands Natural Heritage Trust (CINHT) is a programme of the Government of the Cook Islands to collect and integrate scientific and traditional information on local organisms (plants, animals and microbes) and related subjects (geology, ethnography etc.).
Details Endemic Bird Areas of the World: Priorities for Biodiversity Conservation follows on from work presented in the 1992 publication Putting biodiversity on the map: priority areas for global conservation.
Reports indicate that by 1853, Majuli's total area was 1,150 km2, and roughly 33% of this landmass eroded in the latter half of the 20th century.
On May 22, 2006 the European Commission launched its Biodiversity Communication as an implementation tool to reach the 2010 Biodiversity Target.
It takes its name from the adaptation of most of its members to meat consumption; although several are omnivores.
Laly Joseph was originally in training as an X-ray technician but, needing a job urgently and already loving plants, joined the community of volunteers at the sanctuary some 35 years ago.
In genetics and bioinformatics, a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP ; plural SNPs ) is a germline substitution of a single nucleotide at a specific position in the genome.
History The organisation was founded on 5 December 1981 in the Rottal, in Lower Bavaria in southern Germany.
To help ensure a long-term water supply, a pipeline was built to bring treated waste water from High River and the nearby Cargill meat packing plant.
History On 3rd April 2009, Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, Marthinus van Schalkwyk, published a draft of the Alien and Invasive Species programme.
In another study, eBird data provided a different estimate of suitable habitat for the Nilgiri pipit relative to data collected by scientists (combining field observations and literature review).
According to a study, there are over 50 plants that are dependent on bee pollination, many of these being key staples to feeding the world.
Additionally, SNP-based analyses contribute to understanding population stratification and ancestry, which are crucial factors in designing appropriate study controls and interpreting association results across diverse ethnic groups.
The Diama Dam has permanently isolated the Senegal River manatee population from the coast, as has the Felou Dam in Mali.
"A decade of biodiversity conservation and use in South Africa: tracking progress from the Rio Earth Summit to the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development".
Category 1b species, species must be controlled as part of a national management programme, and cannot be traded or allowed to spread.
In 1998 Shiva was also protesting against Bt cotton program in India, calling it "seeds of suicide, seeds of slavery, seeds of despair", claiming she was protecting the farmers.
The two specimens had head and body lengths of 90mm and 91mm and tail lengths of 92mm and 102mm, respectively.
Legal status An important site of natural heritage or cultural heritage can be listed as a World Heritage Site by the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO.
However, following the adoption of the interim constitution of South Africa, courts found that this unjustifiably infringed the constitutionally enshrined presumption of innocence, and consequently invalidated those parts of the Act.
The establishment of satras turned Majuli into a major hub of Vaishnavism, a role it has retained for centuries.
Official Film Festival Selections: Durban International Film Festival 2012; Joburg Film Festival, South Africa 2013; Netherlands Film Festival 2013; France 2013.
The Regional Trial Court in Puerto Princesa city in Palawan province sentenced the boat captain to 12 years in prison and each crew member received from six to ten years.
The new version – referred to as EOLv2 – was developed in response to requests from the general public, citizen scientists, educators and professional biologists for a site that was more engaging, accessible and personal.
As in April 2021, Treedom has been reported to collaborate with 75000 farmers and plant more than 2 million trees across Asia, Africa and Central and South America.
Invasive species can either be introduced intentionally (if they have a beneficial purpose) or non-intentionally.
Once these species are introduced, their populations can become overabundant as these areas serve to protect the targeted species against predators and competitors.
A study pointing out that citizen-scientists possess different levels of skill and suggesting that analyses should incorporate corrections for observer bias used eBird as an example.
Genetic resources is one of the three levels of biodiversity defined by the Convention on Biological Diversity in Rio, 1992.
In Germany, this is an extremely complicated process and an extreme task to become a game warden or forest conservationist.
On a single island, the climate can differ around the coast from dry tropical (< 20 in or 500 mm annual rainfall) to wet tropical; and up the slopes from tropical rainforest (> 200 in or 5,000 mm per year) through a temperate climate into alpine conditions of cold and dry climate.
It is cost-effective and helps remove a large number of animals from a population, however if ingested by non-target animals it could potentially cause death depending on the type of bait the chemical is administered in, as well as the areas of bait placement.
Females give birth to a single offspring after a gestation of 102–138 days (number observed in captivity) once or twice during the mating season, which coincides with the Madagascar rainy season from December to April.
A smaller population lives north of the Victorian border in the south-east forest of New South Wales.
The required number of 50 instruments of ratification/accession/approval/acceptance by countries was reached in May 2003.
A 2014 ABMI report commissioned by the Canadian Oilsands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), one of ABMI's stakeholders, showed a decline of 20 per cent among bird species in northern Alberta.
Most of the national product is consumed domestically or regionally, but increasing amounts are seized in Europe.
Young males stay with the family unit for one year before achieving sexual maturity and leaving to find their own burrow.
(2001–11) found that it has antibiotic activity against two bacteria species that have gained resistance to antibiotics: vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
In 1994 The network of natural heritage programs formed a membership association to work together on projects of common interest: the Association for Biodiversity Information (ABI).
The complex courtship songs also allow for individual identification of males by females in the species S.
European Nature Information System The European Nature Information System (EUNIS) provides access to the publicly available data in the EUNIS database for species, habitat types and protected sites across Europe.
Most of this effort is centered in the INBiopark, a theme-park opened in 2000 which aims to bring families and visitors closer to the rich Costa Rican nature.
The Encyclopedia of Life (EOL) is a free, online encyclopedia intended to document all of the 1.9 million living species known to science.
Until 2010, both falanoucs were classified as the same species, Eupleres goudotii, which was the only species in the genus Eupleres.
The traditional Mising dance called Gumrag Soman is performed in every village to worship Donyi Polo (Mother Sun and Father Moon) for a good harvest.
The idea of static conservation of biodiversity is disappearing and being replaced by the idea of dynamic conservation, through the notion of resource and innovation.
Not only would reductions in range size and number of sites occupied directly increase the threat of extinction, but extinction risk would be further increased by the concurrent decline in abundance.
These assessments are closely linked to the European Union's environment policies and legislation and help monitor progress in some areas and indicate areas where additional efforts are needed.
Though it is fast in gaining mobility (so as to follow its mother on forages), it grows at a slower rate than comparatively-sized carnivorans.
Education sector Majuli's public school system is managed by the government of Assam and administered by the Assam State School Education Board.
Content from the original UK BAP website has been archived by the National Archives as snapshots from various dates (for example, UK BAP: copy March 2011; copy 2012).
Since the program's retirement there have been ongoing efforts to fundraise and preserve PROTA's various publications and online database.
Recognition of the ultimate sacrifice of these officers at this museum is considered to be important, concomitant to recognition at the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial.
The home range of the long-footed potoroo is between 22 and 60 ha in East Gippsland and between 14 and 23 ha in north-eastern Victoria.
substitution to proline in alpha helix region) such mutation usually may affect whole protein structure and function.
The ABMI Monitoring Centre is located at Alberta Innovates Technology Futures offices in Vegreville.
Methods for controlling overabundant species There are various methods for controlling overabundant populations.
The family of horseshoe bats includes three species: the large horseshoe bat (Rhinolophus ferrumequinum) of large size, the small horseshoe bat (Rhinolophus hipposideros) and the Mediterranean horseshoe bat (Rhinolophus euryale).
Description Adult males measure 41–56 mm (1.6–2.2 in) and females 35–53 mm (1.4–2.1 in) in snout–vent length.
Where possible, collections are kept in the country of origin with duplicates being sent to the Millennium Seed Bank Project for storage.
Wider areas have been developed according to principles that Brown would recognise as consistent with an Arcadian pleasure ground including lakes, parkland and woods and various historic manor houses.
It feeds predominantly on marsh-associated Ceratopogonidae, in contrast to Curlionidae in palm woodland.
Temporal control can be important in perceptual organization of echoes as they are returning back to a source individual from various directions and distances.
See also Bioregion Disparity (ecology) Ecology Evolutionary biology Genetic diversity Nature Natural environment Species diversity Sustainable development == References ==
It may be the victim of disease such as chytridiomycosis but this had not been reported in Chile when the decline started.
A focus on Australian Wildlife Red fox The red fox, Vulpes Vulpes, was introduced to Australia during the 1870s.
Independent ibogaine treatment clinics have emerged in Mexico, Canada, the Netherlands, South Africa, and New Zealand, all operating in what has been described as a "legal gray area".
The Kew Seed Bank facility, set up by Peter Thompson in 1980, preceded the MSBP and was headed by Roger Smith from 1980 to 2005.
Natural heritage refers to the sum total of the elements of biodiversity, includes flora and fauna, ecosystems, and geological structures.
The Chinese dormouse or Sichuan dormouse (Chaetocauda sichuanensis) is a species of dormouse found in subalpine mixed forests in northern Sichuan, China, where it is known from Jiuzhaigou and Wanglang Nature Reserves.
If this is indeed a reference to the drug derived from Tabernanthe iboga (Eroga appears to be a variant form of the names iboga and eboka) it is, of course, grossly in error in its assumption that iboga is not a plant but a fungus.
Habitat and conservation Astylosternus nganhanus occurs along watercourses in a few narrow gallery forests, and in seepage areas in the nearby grassland, at elevations of 1,400–1,700 m (4,600–5,600 ft) above sea level.
Specifically, "Biopiracy is the misappropriation of traditional knowledge and biodiversity through the patent system...
Authors therefore suggest that spatial distribution models based solely on eBird data should be regarded with caution.
It is endemic to Cameroon and known from Mount Nganha on the Adamawa Plateau; it is probably endemic to that area.
Ecological diversity is the largest scale of biodiversity, and within each ecosystem, there is a great deal of both species and genetic diversity.
Soil salinity has localised and regional effects on biodiversity, ranging, for example, from changes in plant composition and survival at a local discharge site through to regional changes in water quality and aquatic life.
The mangroves in the complex, which included some rare varieties, were preserved and protected by the British.
Odisea broadcast a Spanish-dubbed version titled Los Hombres de la Madera Sagrada ("The Men of the Sacred Wood").
They would seek to maintain structure and function by addressing habitat connectivity and resilience and may look at communities of species (threatened or otherwise) as one method of monitoring outcomes.
The International SNP Map working group mapped the sequence flanking each SNP by alignment to the genomic sequence of large-insert clones in Genebank.
Very little is known about this species, but its natural habitats are probably temperate forests, rivers and swamps.
Missense3D is a tool which provides a stereochemical report on the effect of missense variants on protein structure.
PROTA had representatives in 20 African countries and dual headquarters in Wageningen, Netherlands and Nairobi, Kenya.
Laval and Bernald Rodríguez (2002) ISBN 9968702633 Murciélagos de Costa Rica / Costa Rica Bats by Richard K.
The Board is headed by a Chairman, a Member Secretary and followed by a team of expert Government officials, leading the board in its activities.
Limited range, habitat destruction, increased predation by non-native feral dogs and cats, and disease have all led to the decline.
The lake is a hemi-marsh, which means it roughly has the same area of open water as there is emergent vegetation.
It has recently been proposed to receive the highest level of protection under Cambodian wildlife law.
Background According to KSSP studies, the Ashramam mangrove region and the associated watershed area are home to 15 species of mangroves, 22 supporting mangrove species, 122 plant species, 34 edible fish species, and 62 bird species.
In addition, there has been essential funding from NZAID, Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, Bishop Museum, Pacific Basin Information Node, Global Environment Facility, and UNDP.
It would appear that Carter picked the term up from Lyndon Johnson, who used it in a 1966 Message to Congress.
When it screened on French television, its name was changed to The Elephant Guardian (La Gardienne Des Éléphants) – matching the name Pincott was frequently called in Zimbabwe.
The percentage of the diet that is composed of non-plant material varies based on location, with manatees living off the coast having a lifetime average of 50% non-plant material.
Soil pores—maximized in a well-structured soil—allow oxygen and moisture to infiltrate to depths and plant roots to penetrate to obtain moisture and nutrients.
This was eight years after the formation of the Rare Breeds Survival Trust in the United Kingdom, and a few years earlier than the formation of the Österreichische Nationalvereinigung für Genreserven landwirtschaftlicher Nutztiere and Arche Austria in Austria.
Its Arche-Hof ('ark-farm') project – a network of farms that undertake to keep a minimum of three endangered breeds under sustainable and non-intensive conditions – was established in 1995.
Hanson (2004) ISBN 9968702943 Ballenas y delfines de América Central / Whales and Dolphins of Central America by Joel C.
Traditional use The Iboga tree is central to the Bwiti spiritual practices in West-Central Africa, mainly Gabon, Cameroon, and the Republic of the Congo, where the alkaloid-containing roots or bark are used in various ceremonies, sometimes to create a near-death experience.
The rainy climate impacts soil development, which largely determines ground permeability, which affects the distribution of streams, wetlands, and wet places.
If still extant, it is likely to be threatened by habitat loss, pollution, and infection from Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis.
Turkey Tail Mushrooms Toxoplasmosis is a disease caused by an infection by the parasite: Toxoplasma gondii (T.
The "southern boreal forest had the lowest intactness and the greatest human footprint." They published their findings in an article in Biological Conservation.
Description It is a small rodent, like the mouse, the average weight of 10 g and up to 9 cm long, excluding the semi-prehensile tail, which slightly exceeds the length of the body.
Asramam mangrove spread was habitat to the highly endangered Syzygium travancoricum species of mangrove.
It formerly ranged throughout provinces south of the Yangtze River, as well as north of the Yangtze River in southern Sichuan, northeast Chongqing, northwest Hubei and southwest Henan Provinces.
These reports are then manually checked, verifying the location, quality of the image and species of the planted tree.
Although the Western Ghats mountain range is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, a growing population, urban sprawl, climate change and deforestation have put the bio-diversity and bio-abundance in the area under massive threat.
From the exterior, the African manatee looks very similar to the American manatee; however, the African manatee is different from the Amazonian manatee, which has characteristic white markings on its abdomen.
The European Environment Agency (EEA) is the agency of the European Union (EU) which provides independent information on the environment in climate policy, biodiversity conservation and other environmental goals set by the country.
The members are the 27 European Union member states together with Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and Turkey.
Emerging markets It is estimated that the African cannabis market will grow to be worth $7 bn by 2023, with the main stakeholders being Nigeria with $3.7bn, South Africa $1.7bn, Morocco $900m, Lesotho $90m and Zimbabwe $80m.
Ecosystem diversity addresses the combined characteristics of biotic properties which are living organisms (biodiversity) and abiotic properties such as nonliving things like water or soil (geodiversity).
The bailiff paid attention to the preservation of the forest, supervised the sale of timber, the collection of forestry duties and taxes, and supervised the forestry staff, the "forestarii".
Seeds can stay in this room from anywhere between two weeks and six months to extend their lifespan up to 40 times.
This is thought to be related to their prey, mostly invertebrates, such as worms, slugs, snails, and larvae.
It is nocturnal and arboreal, nesting in trees around 3 metres above the ground, and was found above an altitude of 2500m above sea level.
Territorial songs are the most noticeable vocalizations in a colony with 10-50 tonal calls that first have an upward FM, then a V-shaped call in the middle, ending with a lower fundamental frequency that is headed by a noisy buzz.
Francisco Morales (2000) ISBN 9968702390 2002 Murciélagos de Costa Rica / Costa Rica Bats by Richard K.
It can produce a vocalization, a low kiss kiss sound when stressed or to communicate to its offspring.
Additionally, 5% of the planted trees are put aside as so called “Project Reserve” that should cover possible loss of trees and the related CO2 absorption (like trees that die after the third year, for which a substitution is not provided).
An essential feature of the long-footed potoroo's habitat is the dense vegetation cover that supplies protection and shelter from predators.
Hunt set about restoring Brown's original design, soon after purchasing hall in 1994 and sought the help of landscape architect Kim Wilkie.
Research She advises governments, civil organisations and international agencies and is actively involved with policy debates and initiatives throughout southern Africa.
After being awarded a Millennium Commission grant in 1995, the project commenced in 1996, and is now housed in the Wellcome Trust Millennium Building situated in the grounds of Wakehurst Place, West Sussex.
Biodiversity plays a vital role in maintaining human and animal health because numerous plants, animals, and fungi are used in medicine to produce vital vitamins, painkillers, antibiotics, and other medications.
Global Biodiversity Outlook 2 (PDF) A report by the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity (2006) which reviews progress towards achievement of the 2010 Biodiversity Target.
Extremely low pH soils may suffer from structural decline as a result of reduced microorganisms and organic matter; this brings a susceptibility to erosion under high rainfall events, drought, and agricultural disturbance.
Resources and collaborations The Encyclopedia of Life is an aggregative environment, that collects data from other on-line data sources.
She is often referred to as "Gandhi of grain" for her activism associated with the anti-GMO movement.
However, these listings will not protect the species from indirect threats resulting from habitat disturbance and human activities.
If it has the legal permission to do so, the MSB can then provide up to 60 seeds for free, to bona fide, non-commercial organisations for the purposes of research, restoration, and reintroduction.
According to author Hazel Crampton, historical Afrikaner recipes for teas and foods incorporated the use of cannabis.
At the same time, a number of organisations joined to launch the initiative Countdown2010 to support progress towards the 2010 Biodiversity Target.
Career Following his doctoral studies, Fotiadis held research positions at the University of Minnesota, the RWTH Aachen University in Germany, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
Cynthia Casson Morton (born August 1, 1955) is an American geneticist, professor at Harvard Medical School, and director of cytogenetics at Brigham and Women's Hospital.
COVID-19 contributions During the COVID-19 pandemic, Malani co-published COVID-19—New Insights on a Rapidly Changing Epidemic and released guidelines for students returning to school.
He once again attempted to pursue medical ethics but was told by professor David Hamlyn (UCL) that just as medical doctors were trained so were philosophers.
Career Psychiatry lodged in the country’s mental hospitals was not a strong discipline in American medicine but when the Trustees of the newly built Johns Hopkins Hospital sought a director, Hurd was selected and assumed the post in 1889.
As chief health officer, she advises the university president on all matters of health and well-being.
Between 1981 and 2001 he edited the Journal of Medical Ethics and he was a longstanding chairman of the Institute of Medical Ethics, where he is now honorary president.
Based on a series of articles written for the BMJ, Gillon's book Philosophical Medical Ethics has been reprinted 13 times and he is a member of the BMA's medical ethics committee.
An authority on addiction and stress, Koob has published over 750 scientific papers and has received continuous funding for his research from the National Institutes of Health, including the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) and the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA).
Smith Ely Jelliffe (October 27, 1866 – September 25, 1945) was an American neurologist, psychiatrist and psychoanalyst.
At UC Davis, she oversaw UC Davis Health System's academic, research, and clinical programs, including the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing and UC Davis Medical Center.
A much larger collection of his archives are held at the University of Toronto Archives and Records Management Services.
On 11 February 2003, at a press conference held by the Guangdong Department of Health, Zhong explained the disease and its symptoms, and calmed the public by asserting that it was "preventable" and "curable".
There, she conducted research into pancreatic cancer which involved new drug evaluation and chemotherapy, development of new therapeutic regimens, chemoradiation strategies for combined modality therapy, and patient selection criteria.
She returned to Würzburg as a consultant endocrinologist briefly in 2001, before moving to the University of Birmingham in England in 2002 with another fellowship from the German Research Council.
In 2001, he retired from the Public Health Service to begin working at RTI International, where he was a chief scientist for twelve years.
Ausman is a Clinical Professor of Neurosurgery at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and is the Emeritus Editor-in-Chief of the Surgical Neurology International medical journal.
He was also a member of the Eugenics Society of Canada, and, believing that heredity was the primary cause of mental illness, supported some arguments regarding compulsory sterilization of "mental deficients".
Kinney had completed her hospital service and was in college at the time of her second marriage, but continued her studies, which did not at first meet with the approval of Mr.
Baker, Jr., Nanoparticle Targeting of Anticancer Drug Improves Therapeutic Response in Animal Model of Human Epithelial Cancer, Cancer Research 2005, 65, 5317-5324 L.
The Utica State Hospital owned and published The American Journal of Insanity, with John Gray, as its editor.
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: Watson, Irving Allison (1896).
After initially wanting to enter the business world, faced with dwindling job opportunities after the Wall Street crash he decided to follow in his father and go into medicine.
In 1969, one of Ingelfinger's first acts as editor of NEJM was to draw up rules for authors forbidding prior submission or publication of their work in other media.
He also led the United States Preventive Services Task Force, the National Guideline Clearinghouse, and became an assistant Surgeon General.
While there, she started Nature Genetics in 1992, Nature Structural Biology in 1994, and Nature Medicine in 1995.
Until 2020, he was the National Director for Dementia Research for the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) in the UK.
In 1983 he set up Imperial College's one week intensive course in medical ethics, one of the first courses on the subject in the UK.
Awards and legacy In 1932, at the 40th meeting of the American Psychiatric Association, the annual dinner honored Brush on his 80th birthday.
Harwood supervises graduate students at the University of Auckland, as well as training senior medical students in Māori health.
Career Freischlag completed her residency as the sixth woman to finish the general surgery program at UCLA and the sixth woman to pass her vascular surgery boards.
This work followed the first ultra-long acting nanocrystal prodrug and the world's first HIV vaccine mimetic (in Nature Materials, 2020).
He was influential in the affairs of his community, serving as township trustee and school director.
Leung's research involves several large-scale longitudinal studies, including Children of 1997, FAMILY and the Department of Health Elderly Health Service cohort.
The report, "A Race against Time: the challenge of cardiovascular disease in developing economies", focussed on the macroeconomic consequences of CVD—particularly on the fact that one-third of CVD deaths in many developing countries were occurring in people of working age.
Horner retired in 1946 at age sixty-five and was succeeded as editor-in-chief by Hugh Clegg, CBE, FRCP.
She once again served as a writer for the school paper and applied to Medill School of Journalism since she had not fully completed the requirements for medical school.
She trained in endocrinology at Universitätsklinikum Würzburg (University Hospital Würzburg) and finished her training in 1998.
In 1972, he was appointed an assistant professor of neurosurgery and pharmacology at the University of Minnesota.
Eugene Markley Landis (August 14, 1901 – 1987) was a professor of medicine and noted vascular physiology researcher.
Lewis's "Smith Ely Jelliffe 1866-1945: Psychosomatic Medicine in America," pages 224–234 in Franz Alexander et al.'s Psychoanalytic Pioneers (New York: Basic Books, 1966) External links Works by Smith Ely Jelliffe at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Smith Ely Jelliffe at the Internet Archive
She is professor in the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences at the University of California, San Francisco School of Nursing.
Life and career Ingelfinger was born in 1910 in Dresden, Germany, the only child of Eleanor Holden and Joseph Franz Ingelfinger.
Farrar and Canada’s First Psychiatric Residency Program", University of Toronto Department of Psychiatry Edward, Shorter (1996).
He oversaw the implementation of a new graduate educational program, decentralization of the Faculty to its schools, strategic development of research and the formation of an extensive rural-education network for medical students.
Edward Nathaniel Brush (April 23, 1852 – January 10, 1933) was an American physician, a mental hospital administrator, and an editor of psychiatric journals.
From 1991 to 2001, Ausman was head of the Department of Neurosurgery at the University of Illinois at Chicago, where he focused on microsurgery and cerebrovascular surgery, particularly aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, and bypassing cerebral ischemia.
He attended Muhlenberg College in Allentown, Pennsylvania, where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in Natural Sciences and Russian Studies in 1975.
Some of Farrar's archives can be found at the Osler Library of History of Medicine, McGill University.
He became chairman of medicine at University of Virginia School of Medicine in 1939, and professor of physiology at Harvard Medical School in 1943.
Leung resigned as dean in November 2021 to succeed Leong Cheung at the Hong Kong Jockey Club as the executive director (charities and community).
Editorial activities Wilcox was the editor-in-chief of the peer-reviewed journal Epidemiology from 2001-2014.
Landis served as president of the American Society for Clinical Investigation in 1942 and as president of the American Physiological Society in 1952.
Martin Neil Rossor (born 24 April 1950) is a British clinical neurologist with a specialty interest in degenerative dementias and familial disease.
Since January 2001, he has been affiliated as a researcher with the Biomedical Research Institute of the Foundation for Research & Technology – Hellas (FORTH), Greece.
Morton’s research focuses on using genetic information to differentiate the projected clinical course of various tumors.
Culliton is a fellow of the Council for the Advancement of Science Writing (CASW) and a member of the National Academy of Medicine and the Institute of Medicine/National Academy of Sciences.
Research Malone is known for researching the activities of the tobacco industry with respect to public health, as well as the social construction of tobacco use.
Zhong completed further training at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London and the University of Edinburgh Medical School between 1979 and 1981, graduating from the University of Edinburgh Medical School with an MD in 1981.
He served as editor of JAMA until 1924, when he tendered his resignation and was appointed editor and general manager emeritus by the journal's trustees.
He was heavily involved in the discussions and controversies concerning the establishment of the National Health Service.
Beginning his collections by contacting Tadamasa Hayashi in 1882, Hart became a prominent collector of Japanese Art and later joined the Japan Society, frequently giving lectures on subjects such as Lacquerware.
Kubie had several celebrity patients, including Tennessee Williams, Leonard Bernstein, Moss Hart, Kurt Weill, Vivien Leigh , and Sid Caesar.
She previously held lectureships in journalist or science policy at the California Institute of Technology, Duke University, Stanford University, Vassar College, and Yale University.
He began doing research in zoology as an undergraduate student and did physiology research on capillary pressure and permeability as a medical student.
Life After graduating from Harvard College in 1916, Kubie took a medical degree from Johns Hopkins University in 1921 and later became a Freudian psychoanalyst.
Life and education Eva graduated from the Psychology Department at McMaster University with a Doctor of Philosophy in 2001.
He has also written about the negative impacts of the false claim that the MMR vaccine might cause autism, and is an outspoken advocate of mandatory influenza vaccination.
He was the editor of the Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry, president of the Association of British Neurologists, director of the NIHR Clinical Research Network for Dementia and Neurodegenerative Diseases, and director of the NIHR Queen Square Dementia Biomedical Research Unit.
Koob expressed disapproval at the ethically-compromised study, and canceled it in June 2018, while the investigation exonerated him of wrongdoing.
My medical education came about through force of circumstances, and not from any premeditation on my part." Coming to Boston to prepare herself, Draper entered the Boston Training School for Nurses at Massachusetts General Hospital, graduating June 8, 1881.
He took a leading part in the exposures which led to the inquiry into the state of London work-house infirmaries, and to the reform of the treatment of sick poor throughout England, and the Infant Life Protection Act 1872 (35 & 36 Vict.
After studying anatomy and physiology at the Webb Street School of Anatomy and Medicine, Southwark, W.
In 2017, it was reported that Leung, together with Zhang Xiang from the University of California, Berkeley, were the final two candidates for the next HKU president.
Through his sports connection, he was introduced to Li Shaofen, a basketball player who was a member of the China women's national basketball team for 13 years.
He said the federal government's policies have failed to keep up with state regulatory policies on telemedicine.
External links Works by Ernest Hart at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Ernest Hart at the Internet Archive
She said that to contain outbreaks of SARS-CoV-2, governments would have to invest in testing, hospitals and their health workers.
Research and activism Poland is known for researching the immunogenetics of responses to certain vaccines, including smallpox vaccines.
In 2014 he became the director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and continues to hold that position.
He went on to earn a PhD in chemical engineering and materials science from the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, in 1990.
Koob's contributions include scholarly treatises on the conceptual framework and theoretical bases for understanding the neurobiology of drug addiction.
He serves as Professor of Neurology and Associate Dean at the University of California, San Francisco, Chief of Staff at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of the American Heart Association.
He was president of the Massachusetts Medical Society from 1912 to 1914 and was managing editor of the society's journal, The New England Journal of Medicine, from 1921 until 1937.
Noseworthy and others called for health care leaders to make addressing physician burnout a major priority due to its adverse effects on patient safety, quality of care, and health care costs.
Marks died at his Manhattan home from pulmonary fibrosis and lung cancer on April 28, 2020, at the age of 93.
At the request of The Lancet’s editor-in-chief Egbert Morland, the RAMC released Fox to return to editorial work at The Lancet’s wartime office in Aylesbury.
Her mother was Eunice Hillman, a daughter of Tristram and Angel (Lindup) Hillman, English immigrants in New Brunswick, who resided at Southampton and at Canterbury, New Brunswick.
During Simmons' 25-year term as editor-in-chief and general secretary, the number of JAMA subscribers increased from 1,000 to 80,000.
Interested in all that pertains to society and state, she maintained a regular clipping bureau and especially in connection with the life and history of Colfax and vicinity.
She was also the author of papers on “Vis Medicatrix Naturae"; “Puerperal Fever"; “Heredity and Intemperance"; “Hospital Treatment for Insane Women"; “Physiology and Hygiene of Womanhood", (a course of six lectures to women, 1865) “Dr.
Jelliffe's savings were wiped out by the stock market crash in 1929, so he was forced to continue working into his late seventies.
Legido-Quigley worked to analyse the public health responses of different countries, looking to establish best practise and better inform future strategies.
After earning her Bachelor of Science in biochemistry from Tennessee State University, she joined the United States Air Force while attending VCU School of Medicine where she was the only black female in attendance.
During the COVID-19 pandemic in North America, Freischlag was named chief academic officer of Atrium Health, Inc., and appointed the President-Elect of the American College of Surgeons.
Biography Morton graduated in 1973 from Maryland's Easton High School and in 1977 from the College of William and Mary with a bachelor's degree in biology.
In 2018, Culliton became a scholar in residence in the College of Communication and Information at Florida State University.
Hubbard Award (National Board of Medical Examiners, US) (2013) References External links Kevin Eva's publications
Jelliffe is also credited with important contributions in the field of psychosomatic medicine, of which he is regarded as one of the founders.
He gave in 1963 the Heath Clark lectures, which were published as Crisis in Communication (London, The Athlone Press, 1965).
He was a faculty member at Johns Hopkins University, Columbia University, the Yale School of Medicine , and the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, and was on the staffs of the Neurological Institute of New York and Mount Sinai Hospital.
He then completed a residency in Internal medicine at Montefiore Hospital, Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 1982, and he was a Clinical and Research Fellow in Neurology and Infectious Diseases at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore from 1982 to 1985.
From there, Lustberg earned her Medical Degree from the University of Maryland School of Medicine and completed her fellowship in Hematology/Oncology at the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center.
She received a master of science from Syracuse University and a Master of Public Health at Harvard University.
The half-yearly abstract of the medical sciences: being a digest of British and Continental medicine, and the progress of medicine and the collateral sciences was published from 1845 to 1873.
She then embarked on a research career, beginning in the University of California in San Francisco (UCSF) under the supervision of pediatric endocrinologist Walter L.
Leeder's interest in public health was piqued by spending 1968 in the highlands of Papua New Guinea.
He combined these literary activities with interludes of general practice and clinical assistantships at Bart’s and at the Children’s Hospital in Shadwell.
Hart was also editor of The Sanitary Record for a period, and chairman of the National Health Society.
Harcourt Ranking matriculated in October 1831 at St Catharine's College, Cambridge, where he graduated M.B.
References External links Official website Professor Simon Chapman at the University of Sydney with Curriculum vitae, February 2021 Simon Chapman at the Library of Congress, with 8 library catalogue records
To his work as a journalist Morland brought the qualities of a scientist, an artist, and a linguist with an expert knowledge of French and German.
He is the editor-in-chief of the IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics and serves on the editorial board of IEEE Reviews in Biomedical Engineering.
Following this, she accepted her first academic position as an assistant professor in residence at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) in 1987.
From about 1902, he owned and edited for the next forty years the influential Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease.
After 1941, he studied hypnosis, particularly in collaboration with Richard Brickner and Milton Erickson, and it was Kubie who invited Erickson to a Macy conference in 1942.
In February 2020, Malani co-authored an article for JAMA containing important updates on the clinical features of COVID-19 for medical professionals to use in their evaluations of patients.
In 2021, Stone officially stepped up as editor in chief of the American Journal of Infection Control following the retirement of Elaine Larson.
In 2001, she became the first African-American female in the Missouri Air National Guard to be promoted to Brigadier general.
Career Arlt studied medicine at the University of Cologne, completing a MBChB in 1990 and an academic MD in 1993.
In 1995, he published a study that found that women had the best chance of conceiving a child if they had sex on the day of ovulation, with the odds of conception falling sharply thereafter.
The Sheppard and Enoch Pratt Hospital, a private mental hospital in Baltimore, opened in 1891, and Brush accepted the role of superintendent on February 9, 1891.
Career Physician In 1880, McCowen resigned from her role at the State Hospital for the Insane and moved to Davenport, Iowa, where she began specializing in nervous diseases and diseases of women.
In 1979 he was presented the George Kober Medal of the Association of American Physicians, given to leaders in academic medicine, research and teaching.
She is also an associate editor for the peer-reviewed medical journal covering oncology nursing with respect to cancer survivors called Journal of Cancer Survivorship.
In 1894, she became president of the medical board of the Iowa State Nursery of the Children's Home Society, located in Davenport.
Harvey Cushing in 1924, was born in Moreton-in-Marsh, then moved to Lincoln, Nebraska, when he was 18.
They were from 1935 to 1936 in Madrid, where he studied silver-staining techniques and neuroanatomy under the supervision of Pío del Río-Hortega.
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: Woman's Medical Journal (1915).
Fox had a talent for grasping the essential achievements and failures of health care in other lands.
Academic career Ovbiagele served as professor and chairman of the Neurology Department at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) from 2012 to 2018.
He served as Chief of Gastroenterology at Evans Memorial Department of Clinical Research, part of Boston University School of Medicine.
Following high school, Lindsey earned her undergraduate degree in biology from Boston University and her PhD in cardiovascular sciences from Baylor College of Medicine.
Mitchell subsequently completed her internship and residency in internal medicine at Meharry Medical College and became a hematologist at the Andrews Air Force Base.
She shortly left UCLA to become an associate professor of vascular surgery at the Medical College of Wisconsin, where she was the recipient of the Zablocki Veterans Affairs Medical Center Federal Women's Program Outstanding Achievement Award.
Morton’s laboratory was among the first to elucidate a collection of genetic abnormalities associated with this tumor, as chronicled in a series of papers published in the late 1990s.
All of her writings were fully illustrated by original drawings made from her own microscopical preparations, of which she had nearly 5,000.
Career Harwood is a professor in Māori health at the University of Auckland, where she is the co-director of Tōmaiora - the Māori health research group at Te Kupenga Hauora Māori - and Deputy Dean of the Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences.
He established the Center for Neurovirology and Neurodegenerative Disorders at UNMC in 1997, which evolved into UNMC's current Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience in 2004.
He is a professor of family medicine at Georgetown University and Senior Scholar in Residence at the Robert Graham Center.
While an undergraduate, McCowen was offered the position of assistant physician on the staff of the State Hospital for the Insane in Mt.
Following a number of "house jobs" he achieved membership of the Royal College of Physicians (RCP) and began working as a general practitioner.
See also Carlo Urbani, doctor who was the first to identify SARS and died of the disease in 2003 Chen Wei, medical researcher who won multiple national awards Li Lanjuan, medical researcher who won multiple national awards References External links Media related to Zhong Nanshan at Wikimedia Commons
He is currently a faculty member at the University of British Columbia, and Editor-in-chief for the journal Medical Education.
Career Epstein began his work in medical genetics—the application of genetics research to human care—in a fellowship with Arno Motulsky, one of the founders of medical genetics, at his Seattle University of Washington lab.
From 1940 to the beginning of 1942 he worked as a pathologist at a Yale-affiliated Connecticut hospital and also taught pathology at Yale Medical School.
He is currently a Visiting Scholar in Residence at the Robert Graham Center, a health policy research group affiliated with the American Academy of Family Physicians.
Kenton Award (in 2020) for the American Heart Association Health Equity and Actionable Disparities in Stroke: Understanding and Problem-solving (HEADS-UP) Symposium, Benjamin Oluwakayode Osuntokun Award (in 2021) for the African Stroke Organization Conference, and Patrick A.
His editorials at Surgical Neurology International include:"What happened to USA health care on the way to socialism" and "Is gun control really about people control?".
He became a Professor and Director of Educational Research and Scholarship in the UBC Faculty of Medicine in 2010, and is Associate Director and Scientist in the Centre for Health Education Scholarship (CHES).
Born in Clinton, Massachusetts, he worked as a general practitioner in Worcester County for over four decades.
She taught science writing at Johns Hopkins University from 1990 to 1998 as the Times Mirror Visiting Professor.
Allen James Wilcox is an American epidemiologist who heads the reproductive epidemiology group at the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS).
In 1967 he became the chairman of the medical genetics division in the pediatrics department of UC San Francisco.
He is currently the founding deputy editor-in-chief of China CDC Weekly, and a member of the editorial advisory board of The BMJ.
Walter Prentice Bowers (May 19, 1855 – July 22, 1947) was an American general practitioner and the first editor of The New England Journal of Medicine.
In 2022, he was elected a member of the Academia Europaea and more recently was awarded the 2025 Grand Prix Européen by the Fondation Recherche Alzheimer.
Gerald Horner matriculated in October 1899 at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, graduating there B.A.
In 2013, Leung was appointed as the 40th dean of the HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine and chair professor of public health.
In the early 2000s Legido-Quigley volunteered in South Africa, where she worked to support maternal health.
Honors and awards Poland received the Secretary of Defense Medal for Outstanding Public Service in 2004 and was named a Master of the American College of Physicians in 2008.
Poland has also been president of the Armed Forces Epidemiological Board and worked for over ten years as a consultant to the department.
Higher education and medical training Following graduation, Malani enrolled at the University of Michigan where she designed an independent curriculum in medical journalism.
Kinney (1851–1942; née, Draper; after first marriage, Gartley; after second marriage, Kinney) was a Canadian-born American physician who specialized in hypertrophic arthritis and neuritis.
(1998) Over our dead bodies: Port Arthur and Australia's fight for gun control (Sydney, Pluto Press).
In the 2024 King's Birthday Honours, Harwood received the King's Service Medal, for services to Māori health.
She became a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in 2006 and was elected to the Academy of Medical Sciences in 2010.
Personal life Kamerow was educated at Harvard College, the University of Rochester School of Medicine, and the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.
Simon Fenton Chapman, AO (born 14 December 1951) is an Australian academic and tobacco control activist.
She received the Vincenzo Panagia Distinguished Lecture Award from the Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences at St-Boniface Hospital Research in 2021, and the Distinguished Investigator Award from the British Society for Cardiovascular Research in 2022.
In 2019 she was named the Stokes-Shackleford Professor and Chair of the University of Nebraska Medical Center Department of Cellular and Integrative Physiology and the director of the Center for Heart and Vascular Research.
The other three volumes describe every public and private asylum and include bibliographies of prominent psychiatrists.
He was chiefly known to the profession for his editorship of the Half-Yearly Abstract of the Medical Sciences from 1845 to 1864 (in conjunction with C.
Marks published more than 400 scientific articles and was the editor-in-chief of journals including the Journal of Clinical Investigation and Blood.
In 1983, he completed research fellowships in pathology at Harvard Medical School, and in neurology at Massachusetts General Hospital.
In 2019, she left the Mississippi Center for Heart Research to accept an appointment as the Stokes-Shackleford Professor and Chair of the Department of Cellular and Integrative Physiology at the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
She was also selected by Ebony magazine as one of the most influential African Americans in the United States.
He held appointments as house physician to St Bartholomew's Hospital and to the Great Ormond Street Hospital, but he developed pulmonary tuberculosis with haemoptysis.
She died February 2, 1932, at Tucson, Arizona, and was buried at Forest Hill Cemetery, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
He was a researcher at the University of California, San Francisco and the Buck Institute for Age Research.
Education Ruth Malone completed a PhD at the University of California, San Francisco and a postdoctoral fellowship in health policy research at the PR Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF).
Bartholomew’s Hospital Journal, and subsequently wrote for the Hospital, edited by Sir Henry Burdett, to whom Horner was eventually assistant.
Current work focuses on developing the research needed to advance an endgame for the tobacco epidemic.
But before leaving Arosa he had sent an article to The Lancet on the food supply of the German people (1915, 1, 389–99), and this was the beginning of an association with the journal that lasted twenty-nine years, the last seven as editor.
She has said that austerity and long-term underinvestment in health services has drained the ability of healthcare systems to respond to SARS-CoV-2.
He became assistant Superintendent in 1878 but left a few months later to become the superintendent of the newly opened Eastern Michigan Asylum in Pontiac where he remained for 11 years.
He has been a medical journalist for forty years in mainstream media, medical newspapers and on television.
Lester Henry Award (2024) American Brain Foundation Scientific Breakthrough Award (2024) American Stroke Association Edgar J.
In 2013 he was given a Distinguished Professorial Award by the faculty of Medicine at the University of Sydney and made an Honorary Fellow of the Faculty of Public Health of the Royal College of Physicians (UK).
(1990) Tobacco in the third world: a resource atlas (International Organisation of Consumers' Unions).
Gerald Horner's father, Arthur Claypon Horner (died 1893), was the surgeon and naturalist on the Northwest Passage expedition of the Pandora in 1875.
Baker, Jr., Laser-based Method and System for Enhancing Optical Breakdown, US 7,474,919 B2, January 6, 2009 D.
Hart demonstrated from a vast body of evidence the advantages of how a vaccinated person can resist an attack of smallpox, compared to those un-vaccinated.
As CEO, he reorganized Mayo Clinic from a holding company into a single unit with one business plan and strategy.
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: Leonard, John William (1914).
Marks and others found that drugs such as Trichostatin A and SAHA (vorinostat) can serve as anticancer agents.
Corticotropin-releasing factor, in addition to its classical hormonal functions in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, is also located in extrahypothalamic brain structures and may play an important role in brain emotional function.
Afterwards, he moved to the National Institutes of Health, where he received a PhD in pharmacology from the George Washington University School of Medicine in 1969.
The council rejected advertisements when it felt like the benefits of a product had not been adequately proven.
He was the first neurologist to become president of the American Heart Association and the first former AHA president to become president of the American Academy of Neurology.
Overview The Platts assessment process determines the value of physical commodities 15–30 days forward for many oil products loading in Singapore.
List Oil export revenues Academic contributors have written about differences in petroleum revenue management in various countries.
Since 2001 the government has created GEPetrol, a national oil company; and Sonagas, a national natural-gas company.
Depleted gas or oil fields are the cheapest to commission, as they take advantage of existing wells, internal distribution systems, and pipeline connections.
The steady rise in additional output, mostly from North Dakota, West Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and several other US states eventually led to a plunge in U.S.
Overview From an original focus on the oil industry, S&P Global Energy gradually expanded its purview to include metals, agriculture, shipping, and all energy-related markets – oil, coal, natural gas, electricity, nuclear power, petrochemicals, renewables, and emissions.
Johnston reportedly promised significant donations to the Liberal Party and an attempt was made to secure a funding grant from the government's A$500-million Low Emission Technology Demonstration Fund.
At a 6 March OPEC meeting in Vienna, major oil producers were unable to agree on reducing oil production in response to the global COVID-19 pandemic.
Methodology Country analysts are asked whether political developments during the coming three months are likely to lead to reduced, unchanged, or increased oil exports from a given country.
In 2017, GasBuddy launched a gas savings program titled "Pay with GasBuddy" intended to let consumers save at gas stations in the United States.
In 2016, IHS acquired OPIS, separating from GasBuddy, which remained with UCG as a subsidiary company.
When delivery dates approach, they close out existing contracts and sell new ones for future delivery of the same oil.
Hubbert parabola This representation was proposed by Roberto Canogar and applied to the oil depletion problem.
In December 2015, The Daily Telegraph quoted a major oil broker saying, "The world is floating in oil.
This opinion has been met with criticism by those who believe a peak has already occurred or is imminent.
Reserves less than 90% recoverable but more than 50% are considered "probable reserves" and below 50% are "possible reserves".
Calculations are done by summing all of the EROIs for domestically produced and imported fuels and comparing the result to the Human Development Index (HDI), a tool often used to understand well-being in a society.
Some officials in the Bush Administration agreed that OPEC countries' United States assets could be targeted, if a court were to award damages in a resulting antitrust lawsuit.
Europe faced energy security threats, with eurozone growth potentially reduced by 0.1% and inflation up 0.5%.
Banking and finance Algeria's banking sector is dominated by public banks, which suffer from high levels of non-performing loans to state-owned enterprises (SOEs).
However, whether it is seen as a blessing or a curse, the recent political decisions regarding the future of petroleum production in many countries were given an extractivist direction, thus also granting a status quo to the exploitation of natural resources.
Based on these exogenous variables, their proposed economic model would be able to determine the "levels of consumption, production, and price for each commodity in each region, the pattern of world trade flows, and the refinery capital structure and output in each region".
The International monetary Fund held Article IV consultations (periodic country evaluations) in 1996, 1997, and in August 1999.
It is situated in the Belait District on the west bank of the Belait River, just south of Kampong Sungai Teraban and near the administrative centre, Kuala Belait.
Government involvement The Australian government became involved in the scam in a number of ways—through defence-force agencies and personnel, through the export agency Austrade and directly through successful lobbying of federal minister for science Julie Bishop and Prime Minister John Howard.
MOPS (short for the Mean of Platts Singapore) is the average of a set of Singapore-based oil product price assessments published by Platts, a global energy, petrochemicals, metals and agriculture information provider and a division of S&P Global.
This is evidenced by various solar energy initiatives at Masdar City and by other renewable energy developments in parts of the country.
Consequently, the Correa government turned to nontraditional allies, such as China, for external finance.
A new intraday record high of $78.40 was set on July 14, 2006, prompted by the firing of at least six missiles by North Korea on July 4–5, 2006, and escalating Middle East violence.
Origin The first use of the term "rentier states" was by economists in the early 20th, century who used the term to describe European states that extended loans to non-European governments.
Additionally, hydrocarbons from Malaysia's Asam Paya field in neighbouring Sarawak are piped into Rasau.
Internationally, UAE is ranked among the top 20 for global service business, according to AT Kearney, the top 30 on the WEF "most-networked countries" and in the top quarter as a least corrupt country per the TI's corruption index.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
However, unlike most corporations, its profits are not taxed at the corporate level provided a certain high percentage (e.g.
Nigeria has a relatively well-developed banking sector by regional standards, with regionally high level of banking penetration (44.2% vs.
Early life and education Jablonski was the daughter of Polish petroleum geologist Eugene Jablonski, and was immersed in the oil industry throughout her childhood.
In 2009 it modified its name to IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates (IHS CERA) as part of the IHS brand integration in which name changes also took place for other endorsed brands under IHS, including IHS Jane's, IHS Global Insight, IHS EViews, and IHS Herold.
The Mexican Oil Boom was an oil boom from 1977 to 1981 which eventually led to a disastrous crash that lasted for most of the 1980s, driving the economy to a payment default and a significant deficit correction as oil prices fell.
Price Make up Petroleum marketers buy fuel on the basis of the "rack price" and the price set by refiners willing to supply Prince Edward Island retailers, mainly the Irving Oil Refinery in Saint John, New Brunswick, which, since August 2013 is the only oil refinery remaining in the Maritimes.
Before the availability of computers, decline curve analysis was performed by hand on semi-log plot paper.
This was enormously popular among Iranians, who saw the move as a long overdue staunching of the bleeding of its national wealth, which could then be harnessed as a tool to fight poverty nationally.
Fuel pricing software is intended to replace manual or spreadsheet-based processes that could delay the update of fuel costs and jeopardize profit margins.
IRAC petroleum regulators determine a "wholesale price" or "Approved Dealer Base Price" based on commodity prices usually derived from the NYEX.
Under Prime Minister Stephen Harper — who was sworn into office 6 February 2006 after winning against the incumbent Paul Martin — the Canadian federal government announced the elimination of the loophole that placed over 250 income trusts at a tax advantage over other corporations.
The leader who pushed the most for higher oil prices was the Shah of Iran, and the Italian historian Giuliano Garavini has argued that the leader most responsible for the West's economic problems during the "oil shock" was not King Faisal, but rather the Shah.
The structural vector autoregressive model was proposed by the American econometrician and macroeconomist Christopher A.
The crack spread contract helps refiners to lock-in a crude oil price and heating oil and unleaded gasoline prices simultaneously in order to establish a fixed refining margin.
Decline curves have many advantages: they use time-based data which is easy to obtain, plot, and analyze.
So was the political setting when Ricardo published his treatise On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation in 1817.
During that decade two oil price shocks led to continued price volatility in the market; short-term physical markets evolved, and the need to hedge emerged.
The index forecasts and sums up political risks around the world that may affect the supply of oil to international markets.
Further assume that, in the short run, only crude oil prices drive petroleum prices (i.e., prices of other inputs are assumed to be constant), and that no substitutes to petroleum are available in the short run.
International scope Woes of Megacity Driving Signal Dawn of 'Peak Car' Era, Bloomberg News, February 2014.
President Donald Trump, after significant internal pressure, called Saudi Arabian crown prince Mohammed bin Salman, threatening to withdraw U.S.
As the figures represent a single month rather than full-year averages, they may be subject to short-term fluctuations caused by factors such as maintenance shutdowns, seasonal variations, or geopolitical events.
The most effective method of mitigating peak oil is to use renewable or alternative energy sources in place of petroleum.
The Petroleum Price Board (Petroleumsprisrådet) is a Norwegian government agency responsible for setting norm prices for petroleum produced on the Norwegian continental shelf.
(NSAI), Lloyd's Register (LR Archived 2019-04-15 at the Wayback Machine), Evolution Resources, Cawley, Gillespie & Associates Inc.
The volumes in the table represent crude oil and lease condensate (light hydrocarbons recovered from natural gas at or near the wellhead).
A trial for market manipulation is ongoing against Vega Capital London Ltd, a group of nine independent traders at Essex, who would buy oil futures with the expectation to win if the price went down by the end of the contract.
As Daly's concept of a steady-state includes the ecological analysis of natural resource flows through the economy, his concept differs from the original classical concept of a stationary state.
Johnston told the court that he was personally threatened by Anderson, who had used "particular people" to intimidate him.
Players who ordered Frontlines: Fuel of War from GameStop or Best Buy were given a special code which gave access to one of two Challenge Maps.
Ultimately, trade liberalization, customs modernization, deregulation, and banking reform are designed to improve the country's negotiating position as it seeks accession to the World Trade Organization.
Economic history Deteriorating economic performance in 1997–98 culminated in a severe financial crisis in 1999.
These characteristics significantly impact predictability (risk to find, appraise and develop) and in turn the methods of extraction from those reservoirs such as fracking.
The magic number is the value of P at which this inequality no longer holds true — that is, that the economy runs a deficit.
However, this headline figure masks labor force dropout: over 38 million working-age Iranians (especially women and youth) are economically inactive, and only 25 million were employed, indicating a very low labor participation rate (around 41%).
She moved to Petroleum Week journal in 1954 and cemented her reputation, speaking on equal terms with oil ministers and company chairmen.
What prompted the move was that the trusts were costing the Canadian government upwards of $500,000,000 each year in lost revenue.
Production data that includes these additional liquids is usually referred to as “total liquids production” or “petroleum and other liquids”.
A press report cited IMF's investment manager Paul Rainford as planning a third action against a Singapore company with the goal of recovering a total of A$60 million through the three lawsuits.
IRAC petroleum regulators then sets a "tank truck price" which includes Federal Excise Tax (10¢/L for gasoline and 6¢/L for diesel, as well as the provincial petroleum tax (13.1¢/L for gasoline and 20.2¢/L for diesel).
The additional spending is clearly a subsidy, since the existence of these roads creates fuel demand.
But, by August 2007, the price had reached a record high of $78.71, amid production output concerns in the North Sea and Nigeria.
The business was started with the foundation in 1909 of the magazine National Petroleum News by Warren C.
Non-food crops for biofuel There are different types of biofuels and different feedstocks for them, and it has been proposed that only non-food crops be used for biofuel.
To some degree, the proportion of each product produced can be varied in order to suit the demands of the local market.
See also International crisis National Front (Iran) Timeline of the Abadan Crisis British occupation of Bushehr Nissho Maru Incident == Notes ==
Licklieder believed that any long term changes were caused by the OPEC increase in the posted price of oil, and not the OAPEC embargo.
When pressure differences are relatively high, oil and gas rise to the well bore naturally through buoyancy.
Environmental differences As with all forms of fossil fuel, there are established issues with greenhouse gas emissions through export (distribution) as well as consumption (combustion), which are identical whether the oil or gas are derived from conventional or unconventional reservoirs.
By oil export surplus A country's oil export surplus can be calculated by subtracting the value of its oil imports from the value of its oil exports.
Implications of a world peak A peak in oil production could result in a worldwide oil shortage, or it could not even be noticed as demand decreases in conjunction with increased prices.
The SPR is a "deterrent to oil import cutoffs and a key tool of foreign policy" but it has rarely been used.
Prolonged conflict risked a global recession, with higher energy costs eroding consumer spending and industrial competitiveness.
With the increased use of horizontal drilling in the energy industry, energy trust adopt a hybrid policy that promised both "per-share growth and sustainable income for their shareholders".
The AA president Edmund King said on 1 April: "We hope that the weekend will bring back some sanity in this silly situation.
A group of energy and futures companies founded the IPE in 1980, and the first contract, for gas oil futures, was launched the following year.
Although significant, the proportion of expatriate workers is still below oil producing countries in the Persian Gulf.
In greater depth Oil and gas exports have increased substantially and will drive the economy for years to come.
California led the nation in gas prices with an average gallon of regular gas in the state reaching $6.43 as of June 11, 2022.
An emergency oil stockpile was recommended by several Presidents throughout the twentieth century, in 1944, in 1952, 1956 and in 1970.
The theory is disputed by the UK Department for Transport, which predicts that road traffic in the United Kingdom will grow by 50% by 2036, and Professor Stephen Glaister, Director of the RAC Foundation, who say traffic will start increasing again as the economy improves.
Contracts Since 1997, the ICE Futures has expanded its offerings from Brent Crude and Gas Oil to include Natural Gas (1997), Electricity (2004), and ECX carbon financial instruments (2005).
India The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board in India is putting together a plan as of July 2023 to build strategic natural gas reserves in either abandoned gas wells and underground storage.
The oil and gas in unconventional reservoirs are generally low density resources, frequently trapped in the rock by strong capillary forces incapable of flowing naturally through buoyancy.
If the forward market is in "contango"—the forward price is higher than the current spot price—the strategy is very successful.
Comprising experts from many fields within the energy industry, CERA was acquired by IHS Energy in 2004.
Prices are revised on the 1st and 15th day of each month, or whenever the price raises or falls on the market sufficiently to interrupt the cycle by triggering an interrupting formula.
In February 2011 the divergence reached $16 during a supply glut, record stockpiles, at Cushing, Oklahoma before peaking at above $23 in August 2012.
Conceptual and ideological disagreements Several conceptual and ideological disagreements presently exist concerning the steady-state economy in particular and the dilemma of growth in general.
With the anchorage of the market economy, the middle class primarily composed of civil servants, would be decimated in a few years.
In 2005, the federal government had expenditures of US$13.54 billion but revenues of only US$12.86 billion, resulting in a budget deficit of 5%.
Australian Securities and Investments Commission Warren Anderson's company Owston Nominees No 2 was the subject of a court action launched by ASIC, which claims it sold Firepower shares to small investors without giving them a prospectus, making a A$20-million windfall.
A devaluation in 1976 caused some panic until Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) discovered the Cantarell Field that year, boosting perspectives to exploit the soaring oil prices and the government decided to invest and change the economic model.
Other notable speakers have included former United States Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin, United States Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman, former Colorado Senator Gary Hart; former United States Secretary of Commerce Donald L.
Foreign workers mainly come from the Maghreb, Egypt, Turkey, India, the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, Poland, Chad, Sudan, and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Extraction for conventional oil fields fell after 1970, but started to recover and reached a lower secondary peak in 1988.
GasBuddy is a technology company headquartered in Dallas, United States, that offers mobile applications and websites for tracking crowd-sourced locations and prices of gas stations and convenience stores in the United States and Canada.
In early 2001 the government announced plans to establish a national oil company, to allow Equatorial Guinea to take a greater stake in the sector and to facilitate the more rapid transfer of skills.
Introduction Price transmission is defined as the process by which price changes at one level of a supply chain are passed through to another level.
However, other factors than political risks affect the global balance between supply and demand of oil and thus contribute to setting the oil price.
President Yakubu Gowon of Nigeria told his people that henceforward Nigeria's main problem would be "managing abundance".
Features The software solutions were developed to help fuel retailers manage margins, sales and stock volumes in the face of fuel market price volatility, unfavorable supply arrangements, and price sensitivity of retail customers.
This view reinforces the court's conclusion that there is an unusual need for unquestioning adherence to the political decision made by the branches of government that are accountable to the electorate: "Relations with OPEC nations regarding U.S.
References The data was taken from Micheal Gavin, Inter-American Development Bank from the Working Paper series 314 called: Mexican Oil Boom 1977–1985
Many energy technologies are capable of replacing significant volumes of fossil fuels and concomitant greenhouse gas emissions.
They are a powerful investment tool for people who wish to invest directly in extraction of petroleum or mining of other materials, but who do not have the resources or risk tolerance to buy their own well or mine.
Such behaviour, predicted by all canonical industry / market pricing models (perfect competition, monopoly) is called symmetric price transmission.
See also Strategic Petroleum Reserve (United States) Strategic petroleum reserve (China) Strategic Petroleum Reserve (India) Global strategic petroleum reserves 2022 Nord Stream pipeline sabotage National Helium Reserve List of countries by natural gas imports == References ==
By moving it back and forth across the battlefield, the player may gain or lose weapons and equipment.
Coup d'état The prime minister, who was selected by the Shah and approved by the Majlis, was overthrown on 19 August 1953, following a coup d'état orchestrated by the United Kingdom and the United States.
I believe that reliance on a stream of rent accruing directly to the state from the rest of the world is an important consideration, but surely not the only one.
The largest oil field in the world, Saudi Arabia's Ghawar field, produces light crude oils ranging from 33° API (860 kg/m3) to 40° API (825 kg/m3) U.S.
The refined products are primarily for transportation by conventional cars, trucks, trains, planes and ships.
For example, where the government is the largest and ultimate employer, the bureaucracy is frequently bloated and inefficient – and indeed comes to resemble a rentier class in society.
Recent statistics in the US show total vehicle-miles traveled (VMT) increasing after several years of decline, although per-capita VMT remains below its all-time high.
Only a small proportion of the working population is actually involved in the generation of the rent, whereas the majority is only involved in the distribution or utilization of it.
In Canada, the National Energy Board defines light crude oil as having a density less than 875.7 kg/m3 (API gravity greater than 30.1° API).
Brent futures contracts are traded in relation with Dated Brent and other contracts in the Brent Complex, allowing other contracts in the system to absorb demand shocks.
Mathematically, this can be expressed by the inequality: Q × P > S {\displaystyle Q\times P>S} where Q is the quantity of oil exported, P is the price, and S is spending.
Nigeria's Central Bank also devalued its naira against the dollar, while the country's stock market and bond prices (alongside Angola's) fell.
Since the 1940s, agriculture has dramatically increased its productivity, due largely to the use of chemical pesticides, fertilizers, and increased mechanisation.
Traders can also devise swaps that are based on the differences between their clients’ situations and the exchange standards.
After the withdrawal of the British workers in the autumn of 1951, the Iranians felt confident that they could easily hire non-British technicians to run the industry and then quickly train their own nationals to replace them.
Labour peer Lord Harris called for Francis Maude to resign in the wake of Diane Hill burning herself.
The group's chairman, Brian Madderson told the BBC: "We have had no word from the Department of Energy and Climate Change whatsoever." 27 March Ministers consider plans to train up military personnel to ensure that fuel supplies are maintained at a cabinet meeting.
In 2016, according to the government, some 40% of the workforce in the public sector are either in excess or incompetent.
Frontlines: Fuel of War is a first-person shooter video game developed by Kaos Studios and released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox 360 in February 2008.
As business volumes have grown, the IPE has moved location several times to accommodate new pits and more traders.
One analyst explained about changing attitudes of young people: Virtual contact through electronic means reduces the need for actual contact among young people ...
Prelude The AIOC was the United Kingdom's "single largest overseas asset" and a "source of national pride" in the British post-war era of Clement Attlee and Ernest Bevin.
Shale production robbed OPEC of a large portion of its market power, forcing it to co-operate with other producers to keep prices up after Saudi Arabia effectively declared defeat in the price war in 2016.
During the 1973 oil crisis, the price of oil rose from $3 per barrel to nearly $12, and the Saudi economy started growing rapidly, with GDP increasing from approximately $15 billion in 1973 to almost $184 billion by 1981.
MOPS is an acronym that stands for the Mean of Platts Singapore, and typically refers to any contract mechanism that derives its value by referencing the average of a set of Singapore-based oil price assessments published by Platts.
Diversification Diversification of the economy into manufacturing industries remain a long-term issue.
In 2021, it rose to $3.01/gallon, and by June 2022 reached over $5/gallon, with some areas reporting $6/gallon.
The PRIX index (or Political Risk for Oil Exports Index) is a financial indicator for international oil markets to understand the political risks associated with oil exports.
She then founded Petroleum Intelligence Weekly in 1961, the journal which came to be known as "the bible of the oil industry", and ran it until 1988.
2264 limits itself to restraint of trade in oil, natural gas, or petroleum products, it would create a dangerous precedent.
Canada also significantly increased oil production during the 2000s oil crisis, mostly in Alberta in the form of the Athabasca oil sands, though a transportation and logistics crisis in Alberta has slowed continued growth in supplies.
The European biodiesel producers have urged the EU to impose punitive duties on these subsidized imports.
Wanda Jablonski (23 August 1920, in Czechoslovakia – 28 January 1992, in New York City) was an American journalist who covered the global petroleum industry.
The ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, with its accompanying devastation, human toll, and sustained manipulation of both world oil prices and multi-national inflation, are well documented.
Additionally, the simultaneous war between Afghanistan and Pakistan has disrupted airspace and trade routes through Central Asia.
Many participants—including Wall Street giants, such as Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, and Citicorp—turned sizeable profits simply by sitting on tanks of oil.
Investment The stock market capitalization of listed companies in the UAE was valued at $109.9 billion in October 2012 by Bloomberg.
IRAC petroleum regulators also establish a "retail price" which provides a profit margin for retailers established at 5¢/L to 7.5¢/L for full serve fuel and 4¢/L to 5.5¢/L for self serve fuel.
Delayed updates of fuels costs can cause fuel buyers to pay more than necessary, with day-to-day price swings occurring at 3 cents nearly 50% of the time and 5 cents at just over 25%.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
Malnutrition in Iran has been reported as a growing social and economic issue amid the country's ongoing economic crisis.
However, according to a report published in Trading Economics, in the second quarter of 2018, foreign direct investment in the country raised by $882 million.
In this study, which uses an insolation of 1700 kWh/m2/yr and a system lifetime of 30 years, mean harmonised EROIs between 8.7 and 34.2 were found.
The Department for Transport repealed the EU hours and working-time rules for drivers of fuel tankers from 30 March to 5 April.
A related measure, called energy stored on energy invested (ESOEI), is used to analyse storage systems.
The larger dock had been towed to Kuala Belait three years earlier and was the first facility of its kind in Brunei, Sabah, or Sarawak.
Also in that year, GasBuddy released a completely redesigned app, its first major redesign since its release in 2010.
She studied at St George's School, Harpenden in England until July 1937, where she gained her school certificate and got the form prize in July 1938 before leaving to study in America.
See also Estimated ultimate recovery List of countries by proven oil reserves Oil and gas reserves List of countries by coal reserves == References ==
The most prominent in North America is West Texas Intermediate which has an API gravity of 39.6° API (827 kg/m3).
Mexico PEMEX, a government company in charge of selling oil in Mexico is subsidized by the Mexican government.
Later, several other economists in the field have agreed that not even a steady-state economy can last forever on earth.
However, workplace injuries and fatalities in the UAE are "poorly documented", according to Human Rights Watch.
This crack ratio is used for hedging purposes by buying X barrels of crude oil and selling Y barrels of gasoline and Z barrels of distillate in the futures market.
A 2007 study found that as of May 2004, there was roughly 8 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of commercial gas storage capacity in the US, with about 4 Tcf needed to always remain in storage as base gas.
CERAWeek Some of the company's largest clients include international energy companies, energy consumers, governments, utilities, technology companies, and financial institutions.
In 2016, Saudi Arabia and Russia, the world's two largest producers, formed a "working group" pact "to monitor" the oil market at regular intervals.
Taiwan State owned energy firm CPC Corp holds about 11 days worth of natural gas usage in stockpile and is going to increase it to 14 days.
Several business leaders also said in a press release late that evening, warning that a strike would destroy the economy, cause a recession, and close small businesses.
In 2019, the Financial Times reported that the plans to float state-owned oil beneficiary Saudi Aramco were stranded between the company's attachment to the oil ministry and the desire to meet international standards.
The Government of Trinidad and Tobago spent an estimated US$173.2 million in subsidies for gasoline and diesel in the period spanning October 2014 - March 2015.
In contrast to symmetric price transmission, asymmetric price transmission is said to exist when the adjustment of prices is not homogeneous with respect to characteristics external or internal to the system.
In 1969 Equatorial Guinea produced 36,161 tons of highly bid cocoa, but production dropped to 4,800 tons in 2000.
Alternative techniques Second Hubbert linearization The Hubbert linearization principle can be extended to the first derivatives of the production rate by computing the derivative of (2): The left term, the rate of change of production per current production, is often called the decline rate.
One can then use this to calculate the population of the Roman Empire required at its height, based on about 2,500–3,000 calories per day per person.
Factors such as pricing of competitors, analysis of current market costs and sales for each grade of fuel are all considerations that affect the outcome of fuel prices.
Factors affecting the crack spread One of the most important factors affecting the crack spread is the relative proportion of various petroleum products produced by a refinery.
Saad al-Kaabi, Qatar's minister of state for energy affairs, described the price war as a "very big mistake" in a June 2020 interview.
Decline curve analysis is a means of predicting future oil well or gas well production based on past production history.
Players who purchased Frontlines: Fuel of War from Circuit City received a copy of the Frontlines: Fuel of War soundtrack.
However, it faced strong competition from its neighbor, Saudi Arabia, creating a broader gap in the once-assumed alliance between the two countries.
Some software is designed to integrate with point-of-sale systems, pumps, wetstock systems providers, and electronic price signs to automate instant price changes.
During the 2023-2024 Ecuador electricity crisis, in the fall of 2024, the amount of thermal generation was significantly lower than the numbers above would suggest.
History Rasau was historically one of the first stops on the Belait River upriver from Kuala Belait towards the former district administrative capital of Kuala Balai.
In 1971 the government acquired 51% of the assets of French oil companies in Algeria, effectively nationalizing the hydrocarbon industry.
As the Russians and the Iranians are heavily dependent on oil exports, the assumption is that they will become easier to deal with." The vice president of Russia's largest oil company, Rosneft, accused Saudi Arabia of conspiring against Russia.
The production data is fitted to the logistic curve after transformation using e(t) as normalized exhaustion parameter going from 0 to 1.
This was structured as a debt write off of approximately $18 billion and a cash payment of approximately $12 billion.
Under this definition (crude oil and condensate), global oil production in November 2025 averaged 86,281,000 barrels per day.
In his review of Want Two, Pitchfork's Stephen Deusner described the savior character as "Wainwright's own personal Jesus".
Ankh-ef-en-Khonsu i (Egyptian: ꜥnḫ-f-n-ḫnsw), otherwise known as Ankh-af-na-Khonsu, was a priest of the ancient Egyptian god Montu who lived in Thebes during the 25th and 26th Dynasty (c.
HadžiMuhamedović, Safet (2018) "Syncretic Debris: From Shared Bosnian Saints to the ICTY Courtroom".
Barton suggests Enlil then appears and takes Enki's axe, presumably to chop cedars for the building he proceeds to guard.
With the first of these propositions Probabilists agree—but they deny the truth of the second and third propositions (cf.
At the same time, Khamba's elder sister, Khamnu, worried that jealousy might cause harm to her brother.
The Neu-Salems-Gesellschaft (German for: New Salems Society) is a neo-revelationist group named after the publishing house Neu-Salems-Verlag, located in Bietigheim-Bissingen, Germany.
While Maui is not the creator, he is attributed with providing humanity much of what was needed to survive and thrive, such as fire and new islands that he had fished from the sea.
Aeschylus, the famous tragedian, gave an account in his Prometheus Bound where the Moirai were called the helmsman of the goddess Ananke along with the three Erinyes: Prometheus: Not in this way is Moira (Fate), who brings all to fulfillment, destined to complete this course.
The surviving fragments of his work show an uncritical author, without strong sources, who prefers rhetoric to fact.
See also Hyper-real religion – New consumer trend in acquiring and enacting religion == References ==
The comment went unnoticed until, in August of the same year, the American magazine Datebook republished it, inciting protests against the Beatles.
In the spring, they planted flowers in the mountains, to which they enticed young men, whom they tickled to death.
For the son of their glory instead of my servant, they have put to shame.' And I saw someone about to approach us resembling him, even him who was laughing on the tree.
It was compiled "unter Mitwirkung zahlreicher Fachgelehrten in Verbindung mit den Professoren Karl Hilgenreiner, Joh.
The stele is a fairly typical example of a Theban offering stele from the late Third Intermediate Period, dating to the late 25th Dynasty/early 26th Dynasty.
When Popeye attempts to rescue her, the massive Bluto beats his diminutive opponent to a pulp, while Olive Oyl helplessly wrings her hands.
Bibek advocates claim the practice was found in Sikh history but went through a decline, citing sources such as Rehitnamas (namely Daya Singh's and Chaupa Singh's), the Sau Sakhi, and MacAuliffe to support their belief.
Traditionally every Meitei household, irrespective of the religion, worships Sanamahi and Leimarel Sidabi.
On the subject of ectoplasm and fraud, John Ryan Haule wrote: Because ectoplasm was believed susceptible to destruction by light, the possibility that ectoplasm might appear became a reason for making sure that Victorian séances took place in near darkness.
The mystical text Sanamahi Naiyom provides several formulas, such as a mantra that is believed to stop rain.
Oceania is a general name applied to a very vast region including Polynesia, Micronesia, Australia, Tasmania and more.
That is possibly followed by beatification which means the veneration of the Blessed by the regional church.
Traditions such as Buddhism, Jainism, and Cārvāka are labeled nāstika, not in the sense of moral deviance but in the sense of methodologically rejecting Vedic revelation and certain associated doctrinal commitments.
Maitreya and the spiritual hierarchy Following Blavatsky's writings, other Theosophists progressively elaborated on the reputed spiritual hierarchy.
Louis, the statue was the principal symbol of the city between its erection in 1906 and the construction of the Gateway Arch in the mid-1960s.
Normative religion is often contrasted with that of new religious movements, such that the Nation of Islam is considered outside of "normative Islam" and Messianic Judaism outside of "normative Judaism".
The founding lord or seigneur might be a layman, bishop, or abbot, but only the diocesan bishop had the authority to consecrate the church or ordain the priest to serve there.
She argues that the term "syncretism" presupposes that the religions that syncretism combines were "pure" and unchanging before being combined.
On Pentecost (known as Navka's Easter, Ukrainian: На́вський Вели́кдень), they held games, dances, and orgies.
Both critics and proponents need to learn to think of adjudication in science as more like that found in the law courts, imperfect and with varying degrees of proof and evidence.
Within the Carolingian empire, the rules concerning proprietary churches had been expressly formulated in the ninth century, at the reforming councils of 808, under Charlemagne and of 818/9, under Louis the Pious.
Gragg described the text as "one of the best preserved literary texts that we possess from the Old Babylonian period".
Bikur Cholim organizations typically grow to support Jewish patients in hospitals who have unique needs for kosher food, sabbath and holiday observance, and other religious related services for patients and their families.
Methodist Christians thus teach the necessity of following the moral law as contained in the Ten Commandments, citing Jesus' teaching, "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (cf.
The Book of Revelation 20:2-3 gives an image of a 1000-year period in which Satan is to be bound so that he cannot influence those living on the Earth, and Jesus Christ will reign on the Earth with resurrected saints.
The bara' which God performs in Genesis 1 concerns bringing "heaven and earth" from chaos into ordered existence.
There is no accepted authoritative answer within Judaism as to which mitzvot, if any, would be annulled in the Messianic era.
Carsten Niebuhr, traveling the Middle East 1761–67 on a Danish funded expedition, saw such a display at Basra: The scene was in the open air, and in the court of the mosque, which was illuminated with only three lamps.
'life' or 'earth') is the personification of the Earth or the physical realm and an oriṣa in Yoruba religion.
Catholics recorded attitudes most opposed, but even so, 18 percent of Catholic medical respondents who had been so requested, recorded that they had taken active steps to bring about the death of patients.
More completely, etiology is the study of the causes, origins, or reasons behind the way that things are, or the way they function, or it can refer to the causes themselves.
External links "Mavka" — Internet Encyclopedia of Ukraine "Kostroma" — Encyclopedia of Mythology (in Russian)
It was operated in a similar fashion to the Jewish practice, in that the beginning of the year (Muharram) was tied to the spring season.
In 1908 Henry Louis Mencken wrote on Friedrich Nietzsche's criticism of philosopher David Strauss that: Strauss had been a preacher but had renounced the cloth and set up shop as a critic of Christianity.
According to Rabbi Ishmael, only the principal commandments were given on Mount Sinai, the remainder having been given in the Tent of Meeting.
The original bust of Claudius was lost in a fire at the Alcázar de Madrid in 1734 and replaced with another smaller version.
In proof of the third proposition Æquiprobabilists put forward various arguments, of which the following are the most forcible: A person is bound to endeavour to bring his actions into harmony with objective morality.
It covers a wide range of beliefs about the extent of any intervention by God, with some approaching deism in rejecting the concepts of continued intervention or special creation, while others believe that God has directly intervened at crucial points such as the origin of humans.
Barton suggests the text is difficult and enigmatic, he confesses the interpretation put forward is uncertain and with great reserve.
Ectenic force The idea of ectoplasm was merged into the notion of an "ectenic force" by some early psychical researchers who were seeking a physical explanation for reports of psychokinesis in sessions.
It is also reasonable that Origen, a man with close contacts in the Christian Arab community, would have taken a particular interest in the first Arab emperor.
The second story refers to the creator deity using a composite name, which puts his personal name Yahweh (written in Hebrew as the Tetragrammaton) together with Elohim – translated into English as "LORD God".
Creature worship may include: Animal worship, Animism, Cult of personality, Household deity, Idolatry, Nature worship, and/or Pantheism.
We do actually need this divine porn star to come down and teach us what it means to be human again...
Attributed works Modern scholars, such as the Japanese scholar of early Chan, Yanagida Seizan, agree that only one extant text can be attributed to Bodhidharma.
It has a broader definition than theological orthodoxy, including all those commonly accepted within the religion as a social group of mutual identification, for example with connected liberal tendencies.
Its existence was initially hypothesized by Count Agenor de Gasparin (1810–1871) to explain the phenomena of table turning and tapping during séances.
The Christian dualists of the Byzantine Empire, the Paulicians, were seen as Manichean heretics by Byzantine theologians.
Further, one should not eat food made by them, nor should one share a Bata [cooking vessel] with them—this is forbidden for a Sachiyaar Sikh, and doing so (keeping this Rehat) is a very high Bibeki Karam.
It took about another two hundred years to discover the precise etiology: the lack of vitamin C in a sailor's diet.
Etymology The word derives from the Medieval Latin empyreus, an adaptation of the Ancient Greek empyros (ἔμπυρος), meaning "in or on the fire (pyr)".
Servant of God is not considered a canonical title in a strict sense by the Catholic Church (as for instance venerable or Blessed are), but only a technical term used in the beatification process.
Lambert noted that many kings had built temples and chapels to Ninhursag, but that the Kesh sanctuary "was the centre of the goddess's cult from the Early Dynastic period into the Old Babylonian Dynasty; after this time it lost its importance".
Christopher Bollas used the term "Violent Innocence" to describe a fixed and obdurate refusal to acknowledge the existence of an alternative viewpoint — something akin to what he calls "the fascist construction, the outcome is to empty the mind of all opposition".
A donation couched in such terms to a third party, served to provide some protection against subsequent challenges by other family members.
At 6.34, he describes Philip visiting a church on Easter Eve and being denied entry by the presiding bishop because he had not yet confessed his sins.
As an old man, Mandavya was sitting outside his cave in deep meditation, oblivious to some thieves placing their stolen goods there.
See also Millennialism is a belief held by some Christian denominations that there will be a Golden Age or Paradise on Earth in which "Christ will reign" for 1000 years prior to the final judgment.
Apotheosis of Saint Sebastian was given to the museum in 1994 by the collectors Othon Kaufmann and François Schlageter, together with another painting by Ricci and several other Italian works, among which Crespi's L'Ingegno, and Vignali's Cyparissus.
In 1988 the UUA gathered to share a commitment to The Right to Die with Dignity document which included a resolution supporting self-determination in dying.
In Sūrah al-Anbiyāʼ, the Quran states that "the heavens and the earth were of one piece" before being parted.
But if a critic asserts that there is evidence for disproof, that he has a negative hypothesis—saying, for instance, that a seeming psi result was actually due to an artifact—he is making a claim and therefore also has to bear a burden of proof...
In each of the first three days, there is an act of division: day one divides the darkness from light, day two the "waters above" from the "waters below", and day three the sea from the land.
The society saw itself as Christian, whose foundation is the Bible, which is understood, interpreted and completed through new revelations.
Official status On 5 August 2022, the Manipur State Legislative Assembly re-affirmed a resolution to record the Sanamahi religion in the census data with a separate unique code as an officially recognised minority religion of India.
Kirchliches Handlexikon: ein Nachschlagebuch über das Gesamtgebiet der Theologie und ihrer Hilfswissenschaften is a two-volume book published in parts in Munich in 1904–12.
History The roots of bikur holim can be traced back to the Torah, when God visits Abraham after his circumcision (Genesis 18:1).
In modern culture In describing the Myth of Redemptive Violence, Walter Wink points to the popular 1950s cartoon, Popeye and Bluto, describing the basic plot that is repeated in nearly every episode.
For all other commandments, one must violate the commandment if the only alternative is to be killed.
Here Prometheus speaks of a secret prophecy, rendered ineluctable by Ananke, that any son born of Zeus and Thetis would depose the god.
At the last moment, as our hero oozes to the floor, and Bluto is trying, in effect, to rape Olive Oyl, a can of spinach pops from Popeye’s pocket and spills into his mouth.
The ancient part of the sculpture is inscribed IMPERATOR·CAESAR·DIVI·FILIVS·AVGVSTVS (the emperor Caesar Augustus, son of the deified [Julius Caesar]).
Servant of God (Latin: Servus Dei) is a title used in the Catholic Church to indicate that for an individual a beatification process has been opened.
Seckler continued her lifelong work with the A∴A∴, founding the College of Thelema and co-founding (with James A.
It is believed to have been created by Ọbatala, the King of the oriṣa, who descended from the spirit realm, Ọrun, following directions from the Supreme Being Olodumare.
Bibek refers to a sectoral practice of some amritdhari Sikhs of only eating or drinking food prepared by them or by other Gursikhs, including only washing food with water drawn from a well by them, not eating fruits purchased at a market, or food prepared by their spouse.
London: Mental Culture Enterprise.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: publisher location (link) Moreman, Christopher (2003).
According to Suzuki, one of the recurrent emphases in the Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra is a lack of reliance on words to effectively express reality: If, Mahamati, you say that because of the reality of words the objects are, this talk lacks in sense.
The characteristic of the messianic age, as shown in the Scriptures, was to be an extraordinary outpouring of the Spirit on all people.
Ivy Compton-Burnett had one character conclude dourly of another two that "you are both of you innocent though it is an innocence rooted in your wishes for your own lives".
It is considered an aspect of gemilut chasadim (pronounced [/ɡmiluˈt χasaˈdim/]; גְּמִילוּת חֲסָדִים, 'bestowal [of] lovingkindnesses').
Other works His earliest known work is the Ancoratus (the well anchored man), which includes arguments against Arianism and the teachings of Origen.
It was originally discovered in 1854 as part of a large burial of priests of Montu at Deir el-Bahari in Luxor, Ottoman Egypt, and included the coffin of the dedicant, Ankh-ef-en-Khonsu i.
מִצְווֹת, mīṣwōt, pronounced [mit͡sˈvot]) refers to a commandment from God to be performed as a religious duty.
In a canonical process, the so-called heroic virtue or the authenticity of martyrdom has been proved.
The myth goes on to describe the temple dedication rites and explains that the Annanuki were the lords of the temple.
Though the book claims Cumorah was the site of a battle with 200,000 deaths, there is no evidence that the hill was ever a settlement, fortification, or battle site.
It lists, and refutes, 80 heresies, some of which are not described in any other surviving documents from the time.
Main elements of the society were inner freedom and independence connected with deep religiosity, as well as the belief in the divine authorship of the new revelation of Jakob Lorber.
Another such anecdote is said to have occurred in 1695 under Mustafa II: The Grand Vizier prevented access to the sultan to a poor shoemaker who had a petition for his sovereign.
The physical existence of ectoplasm has not been scientifically demonstrated, and tested samples purported to be ectoplasm have been found to be various non-paranormal substances.
(2) Read: And God is the Most Generous, (3) Who taught by the pen, (4) Taught man that which he knew not.(5)".
He says of the titular subject: "He will then be reborn from 1970s porn/wearing tube socks with style/and such an innocent smile".
Miller, another supporter of these views, noted her early influence in a substantial number of teenage girls, as Madonna impacted not only their fashion, but their identities and influencing on their life goals and desires.
Further magical works by Lévi include Fables et Symboles (Stories and Images), 1862, and La Science des Esprits (The Science of Spirits), 1865.
References External links Media related to Apotheosis of Saint Sebastian at Wikimedia Commons L’Apothéose de saint Sébastien Archived 2023-01-01 at the Wayback Machine, presentation of the painting on the museum's website
However, as digital theology is a burgeoning field, much of the literature has been critiqued as having a poor understanding of technology and digital culture.
The yin and yang symbol actually has very little to do with Western dualism; instead it represents the philosophy of balance, where two opposites co-exist in harmony and are able to transmute into each other.
Meaning of the name The name Ankh-ef-en-Khonsu (ꜥnḫ-f-n-ḫnsw) translates as "He lives for Khonsu"; the name is particularly common during the Third Intermediate and Late Periods.
Nongthonba went to the king, who ordered that Khamba should participate if the race had not yet begun.
After World War II the society congregated again as Lorber-Gesellschaft (German for: Lorber Society).
While some Egyptian accounts have a god creating the world by sneezing or masturbating, the Memphite Theology has Ptah create by speech.
Its sculptor, Charles Henry Niehaus, offered to create a bronze version of the plaster model for $90,000.
Khamba and his sister Khamnu generously distributed many of these gifts to elderly men and women of the kingdom.
More eclectically, Eric Berne saw the Child ego state, and its vocabulary, as reflecting three different possibilities: the clichés of conformity; the obscenities of revolt; and "the sweet phrases of charming innocence".
Din-i Ilahi In the 16th century, the Mughal emperor Akbar proposed a new religion called the Din-i Ilahi ("Divine Faith").
McRae's standpoint accords with Yanagida's standpoint: "Yanagida ascribes great historical value to the witness of the disciple Tanlin, but at the same time, acknowledges the presence of 'many puzzles in the biography of Bodhidharma'".
The painting had belonged to the Dukes of Buccleuch and was sold in 1953 as part of the estate of Rodney Matthews-Napier, an Australian who had married a member of that aristocratic family.
Arguments for Æquiprobabilism In proof of their first proposition, Æquiprobabilists quote, among other things, the axiom: in dubio melior est condition possidentis.
Myth The myth of redemptive violence is the story of the victory of order over chaos by means of violence.
In January 2017, the social media page of his center Mansão do Caminho shared photos from a 1977 session showing Divaldo expelling ectoplasm from his mouth, which then materialized into flowers.
The work is named after a now-lost head of Claudius commissioned from Orfeo Boselli (1600–1676) by cardinal Girolamo Colonna, now lost but shown in at least two engravings of the group.
It was alleged Myer's spirit communicated through Mrs Verrall on 13 July 1904 by producing a manuscript which made reference to Myers' message.
However, Quran emphatically rejects the implication of termination of Jesus' life when he was allegedly crucified.
A key element of Maitreya devotion in East Asia is the intention to be reborn in Maitreya's Inner Court of Tushita Heaven (兜率內院).
Buddhism There are many views among Buddhists on the issue of euthanasia, but many are critical of the procedure.
According to biblical scholar Francis Andersen, misunderstanding the intention of the authors and the culture within which they wrote will result in a misreading.
The proprietor and his heirs retained unabated legal rights to the ground on behalf of the saint whose relics lay beneath the altar.
He suggests that it describes an oracle given by a seer for a priest called "Allu-Kal" who wished to rebuild dwellings or a temple of cedar wood.
Normative religion describes the social boundaries of religious identity at a macro-level, particularly for the named world religions.
According to Paul Fieldhouse, the practice may derive from the fact that Guru Gobind Singh prepared Amrit Sanchar in an iron vessel.
It is a late version of a theme that Ricci had treated between 1696 and 1698 in a now destroyed fresco in St Sebastian Church, Venice.
Transformed by this gracious infusion of power, he easily demolishes the villain and rescues his beloved.
Bahá'u'lláh (1817–1892), the Prophet-Founder of the Bahá'í Faith, is recognized by Bahá'ís as the promised Maitreya Buddha and Promised One of all religions.
Some Shia Muslims believe that the fourth caliph Ali ibn Abi Talib was the first to compile the Quran shortly after Muhammad died.
One unique feature of the Panarion is in the way that Epiphanius compares the various heretics to different poisonous beasts, going so far as to describe in detail the animal's characteristics, how it produces its poison, and how to protect oneself from the animal's bite or poison.
The earliest reference I have found to the story in which Lincoln is alleged to have said to an unnamed Illinois minister, "I do love Jesus" is in a sermon preached in the Baptist Church of Oshkosh, Wisconsin, April 19, 1865, by Rev.
Teaching If the opinions for and against the current existence of a law have equal or nearly equal probabilities, it is permissible to act on the less safe opinion.
Japanese Buddhism Maitreya is a central figure for the Japanese Yogacara school (Hossō-shū) who considers Maitreya to be the founder of the tradition.
In Abrahamic religions, the Messianic Age (Hebrew: יְמוֹת הַמָשִׁיחַ) is the future eternal period of time on Earth in which the messiah will reign and bring universal peace and brotherhood, without any evil (through mankind's own terms).
Another example of the persecution of heretics under Protestant rule was the execution of the Boston martyrs in 1659, 1660, and 1661.
Thus, an etiological myth, or origin myth, is a myth that has arisen, been told over time or written to explain the origins of various social or natural phenomena.
In the past, when many physical phenomena were not well understood or when histories were not recorded, myths often arose to provide etiologies.
This bust was added when the sculpture was placed on a later larger pedestal in the classical style, just before Colonna gave the work to Philip IV of Spain in 1664.
In later Christian religious cosmologies, the Empyrean was "the source of light" and where God and saved souls resided.
He begins (at 6.41.1) by describing the pogroms which began a year before Decius's decree of 250; that is, in 249, under Philip.
One story involves an extramarital affair; a woman named Narina lay with Kilpuruna, who was the friend of her husband Yuruma.
Summary According to the Sīrah (prophetic biography), while on retreat in a mountain cave near Mecca (the cave of Hira), where Muhammad used to go and ponder upon the evil deeds of his community.
Epiphanius begins with the 'four mothers' of pre-Christian heresy – 'barbarism', 'Scythism', 'Hellenism' and 'Judaism' – and then addresses the 16 pre-Christian heresies that have flowed from them; four philosophical schools (Stoics, Platonists, Pythagoreans and Epicureans), and 12 Jewish sects.
Some religious movements have embraced overt syncretism, such as the case of melding Shintō beliefs into Buddhism or the amalgamation of Germanic and Celtic pagan views into Christianity during its spread into Gaul, Ireland, Britain, Germany and Scandinavia.
All twelve witnesses to the gold plates reaffirmed the truth of the Book of Mormon throughout their lives even though some were in and out of church fellowship over their lifetime.
The births of Ananke and her brother and consort, Chronos (the personification of time, not to be confused with the Titan Cronus), were thought to mark the division between the eon of Chaos and the beginning of the cosmos.
"Gay Messiah" is a song written and performed by American-Canadian singer-songwriter Rufus Wainwright.
A subtype of the Mavkas are the Nyavkas, which behave the same except for having "no back", meaning that their spine and some other insides can be seen; the most defining feature between determining Mavkas and Nyavkas is whether or not the insides are visible from the back.
See also Atziluth Central Fire Heaven Hyperuranion Paradise Pleroma Seven Heavens Third Heaven Firmament References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
The clergymen Charles Kingsley (1819–1875) and Frederick Temple (1821–1902), both conservative Christians in the Church of England, promoted a theology of creation as an indirect process controlled by divine laws.
It took place in the ancient Moirang kingdom and occurred before the Kao (bull) capturing and Ukai Kappa incidents.
Both heroes are known as the preparers of the Indo-Iranian sacred beverage, the *sauma, which *Trita Atpya probably drank to obtain god-like powers.
He adds that, "Most taxonomists, however, have viewed such new terminology as dangerously destabilizing to the traditional and well-known scheme." The illustrations by the author show dinosaurs in very active poses, in contrast to the traditional perception of lethargy.
He embraced the Hare Krishna tradition and, in the summer of 1969, produced the single "Hare Krishna Mantra", performed by the devotees of the London Radha Krishna Temple.
While Smith and the Book of Mormon hold that Cumorah was a human-made mound, the hill is actually a naturally occurring glacial drumlin.
History Mary Catherine Lyttleton, known as May, fell in love with Arthur Balfour, Member of Parliament and future Prime Minister, in 1874, but fell ill and died on Palm Sunday, 21 March 1875, before Balfour could declare his intent.
In any case, the Roman Catholic Church denounced the Cathars as heretics, and sought to crush the movement in the 13th century.
A person is allowed to fast unto death or take the vow of sallekhana only when certain requirements are fulfilled.
The Jueguan lun, (Treatise on the Transcendence of Cognition), a text discovered among the Dunhuang manuscripts, has been attributed to Bodhidharma, however it is more likely by an anonymous member of the Oxhead school, an important Chan faction during the Tang dynasty.
Composition "Gay Messiah" features both Christian and gay iconography, and has been described as an example of Wainwright expressing his sexuality within his work.
Without much organization or membership it was a name for the followers of Jakob Lorber and readers of the books from this publisher.
The painting has been called "magnificent, one of Sebastiano Ricci's most perfect achievements" (l'oœuvre est magnifique, elle compte parmi les plus parfaites réussites de Sebastiano Ricci) by the art historian Pierre Rosenberg, writing in 1984.
External links Barton, George Aaron., Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, Yale University Press, 1918.
History The bronze statue that stands in Forest Park today was donated to Forest Park by the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company after the 1904 World's Fair.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau described "childhood as a time of innocence" where children are "not-knowing" and must reach the age of reason to become competent people in society.
Creature worship is part of the Hindu faith and this is based on the theory of karma and the principle of rebirth.
Prometheus: The three-shaped (trimorphoi) Moirai (Moirae, Fates) and mindful (mnêmones) Erinyes (Furies).
Scriptures which describe the future coming of Maitreya also describe the paradise like conditions of the world during Maitreya's time.
She is also considered the mother of the Fates, hence she is thought to be the only being to overrule their decisions (according to some sources, excepting Zeus also).
Mavkas and Nyavkas were believed to live in groups in forests, mountain caves, or sheds, which they decorated with rugs.
In the biblical worldview, creature worship is seen as analogous to a reversal of the relationship between God and creature or the reversal of mindedness, which places power in the handiwork.
As early as the late 5th century, Pope Gelasius I listed conditions under which bishops could consecrate new churches within the metropolitan see of Rome.
Dualism or dualistic cosmology is the belief that two fundamental concepts exist, which often oppose each other.
The Kesh temple hymn, Liturgy to Nintud, or Liturgy to Nintud on the creation of man and woman, is a Sumerian tablet, written on clay tablets as early as 2600 BCE.
'liquid gold religion'), also known as Meiteism (Manipuri: ꯃꯩꯇꯩ ꯂꯥꯢꯅꯤꯡ, romanized: Meitei laining), or Lainingthouism (Manipuri: ꯂꯥꯢꯅꯤꯡꯊꯧ ꯂꯥꯢꯅꯤꯡ) is an ethnic religion of the Meitei people of Manipur, in Northeast India.
Louis by the Louisiana Purchase Exposition in commemoration of the Universal Exposition of 1904 held on this site." The north and south sides are inscribed "Saint Louis." The statue featured heavily in St.
Other important gods and goddesses include Panthoibi, Lainingthou Nongpok Ningthou, Lainingthou Koubru, Ibudhou Marjing, Thongalel, Wangbren, Eputhou Thangjing, Kounu, Nongshaba, Nongthang Leima, and Irai Leima.
In rabbinic literature there are a number of works, mainly by the Rishonim, that attempt to enumerate 613 commandments.
It caters both to local and people traveling for world class treatments in DFW hospitals, such as supporting Uterine Transplant treatment at Baylor University Medical Center.
Pseudoskepticism (also spelled as pseudoscepticism) is a philosophical or scientific position that appears to be that of skepticism or scientific skepticism but in reality is a form of dogmatism.
Relatedly, when disease is widespread, epidemiological studies investigate what associated factors, such as location, sex, exposure to chemicals, and many others, make a population more or less likely to have an illness, condition, or disease, thus helping determine its etiology.
1862: Bereavement and Emancipation On Thursday, February 20, 1862, at 5:00 p.m., Lincoln's eleven-year-old son, William Wallace Lincoln ("Willie"), died at the White House.
His name is also considered a cognate to Indo-Iranian Yama, and related to Sanskrit yamala 'in pairs, twice' and Prakrit yamala 'twins'.
However, these decisions were often made quite haphazardly and for practical reasons, as opposed to more considered choices about the implications of digitizing church services.
In that pursuit, he was relentless." In accordance with his wishes, Harrison's ashes were scattered at Varanasi in India, at the confluence of the Ganges, Yamuna and Saraswati rivers.
The Theosophical Maitreya has been assimilated or appropriated by a variety of quasi-Theosophical and non-Theosophical New Age and Esoteric groups and movements; they have advanced their own views on the entity's reappearance.
In medieval Christianity, the Empyrean was the third heaven and beyond "the heaven of the air and the heaven of the stars." The Empyrean was thus used as a name for the incorporeal "heaven of the first day".
According to Ferraro, in Felling Italian: The Art of Ethnicity in America (2005), "Italian Catholicism informs just about everything Madonna does, most often in ways that are not officially sanctioned".
Francis Bicknell Carpenter, the author of Six Months in the White House, told Reed that he "believed Mr.
Moral opposites might, for example, exist in a worldview that has one god, more than one god, or none.
Both Khamba and Kongyamba became champions of their respective panas in wrestling and running events.
He began as an analytical philosopher, distinguishing different uses of language with the aim of showing that certain traditional philosophical problems need no longer trouble us, once we have understood how to make the relevant linguistic distinctions.
In 1843, Smith acquired a set of plates from Kinderhook, Illinois, and claimed to be able to interpret the supposedly ancient text recorded on them, briefly summarizing their content.
August 4 - The "Lady of Elche" Iberian sculpture (4th century BCE) is found at L'Alcúdia near Elche in Spain.
Miscellaneous September 27 - A Vichy France law promulgated by Jérôme Carcopino makes buried archaeological relics state property.
1709: The town of Herculaneum is discovered near Pompeii when digging of a well over the ancient amphitheater is attempted.
May 15 – A steam locomotive and 15 dump cars from Panama Canal French construction attempts, 1881–1894, are recovered from the bed of Gatun Lake.
Weeks, American Egyptologist Deaths July 11: Arthur Evans, English archaeologist of Minoan civilisation == References ==
Italian archaeologist Luigi Maria Ugolini begins excavations at Buthrotum in Epirus (modern-day Albania).
Hut on Novaya Zemlya used by Willem Barentsz's expedition is found by Norwegian seal hunter Elling Carlsen.
March 10 – Ancient capital of the Mayan Kingdom of Sak Tz'i is found at Lacanjá Tzeltal, Chiapas, Mexico.
Awwam temple near Ma'rib in Yemen, by Wendell Phillips of the American Foundation for the Study of Man (continues to 1952).
Births 1730: September 16 - William Hamilton, Scottish diplomat, antiquarian, archaeologist and volcanologist (d.
Robert Ranulph Marett begins a 4-year project at the Paleolithic site of La Cotte de St Brelade on Jersey, Channel Islands.
The first of three World War II German tanks is recovered from the Czarna Nida river in southern Poland.
Events Institute of Archaeology established within the University of London by Mortimer Wheeler and Tessa Verney Wheeler.
December 29 – 70,000 excavated artifacts from the Ōfune Site in Japan are damaged or destroyed when fire breaks out in an exhibition room.
Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology established at the University of Cambridge, opening as the Cambridge Antiquarian Library and Museum.
March 17 - Light cruiser USS Juneau (CL-52), wrecked in 1942 at the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal, discovered by Paul Allen.
Excavation at Twann Bahnhof neolithic pile dwelling site in Switzerland begins (continues through 1976).
Events Grahame Clark is elected to the Disney Professorship of Archaeology in the University of Cambridge.
Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yucatan by John Lloyd Stephens, illustrated by Frederick Catherwood, provides much more accurate information on the ruins of the Maya civilization than previous publications and generates international interest in the subject.
Births October 11 - Harriet Boyd Hawes, American archaeologist of the Minoan civilization (died 1945) See also Ancient Egypt / Egyptology == References ==
Excavations March – Danes Graves, Arras culture barrows in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England, by Canon William Greenwell.
Publications Juan Ramis publishes Antigüedades célticas de la isla de Menorca ("Celtic Antiquities of the Island of Menorca") in Mahón, the first book in the Spanish language entirely devoted to prehistory.
Approximate date - Vénus impudique, the first Paleolithic sculptural representation of a woman discovered in modern times, is found by Paul Hurault, 8th Marquis de Vibraye, at Laugerie-Basse, one of the Prehistoric Sites and Decorated Caves of the Vézère Valley in southwestern France.
Expedition under Neil Merton Judd to collect dendrochronological specimens in order to date habitation of Chaco Canyon.
28 September: Dover Bronze Age Boat, a substantially intact seagoing craft of 1575–1520 BCE, discovered by road construction workers on the south coast of England.
A large Song dynasty trade ship of c.1277 CE is dredged up from the waters near the southern coast of China with 12 compartments in its hull.
Finds In Schleswig, Germany, Windeby I and Windeby II, bog bodies, were discovered in a peat bog during a span of three months.
1765: Nathaniel Davison discovers a stress-relieving chamber (Davison's chamber) above the Kings chamber in the Great Pyramid of Giza.
A Deutsche Orient-Gesellschaft and University of Pennsylvania team led by Oscar Reuther begins excavations at Ctesiphon.
1841) 1797: October 5 - John Gardiner Wilkinson, English traveller, writer and pioneer Egyptologist (d.
1800) See also List of years in archaeology 1852 in archaeology 1854 in archaeology == References ==
Births July 8: Martin Carver, English archaeologist of early medieval Britain August 5: Ina Plug, née Post, Dutch-born zooarchaeologist December 16: Kent R.
The Missione Archaeologica Italiana a Malta begins excavations at Ras il-Wardija, Gozo, Malta (continues through 1967).
Explorations Innes McCartney begins a survey of German U-boats scuttled off the island of Ireland in the British Operation Deadlight following World War II.
23 - Several objects, including the head of the Heracles of Antikythera, from the Antikythera wreck in Greece.
October 26: Accidental discovery of wreckage from the Australian National Airways' 1931 Avro Ten Southern Cloud disappearance in the Snowy Mountains of New South Wales.
12 January – Eric Birley, British archaeologist associated with the excavations of forts on Hadrian's Wall (d.
The bulk of the finds from the 1927-1937 excavations of Peking Man Site in Zhoukoudian, China are lost, never to be recovered, while being transported to safety.
Miscellaneous September 27 - Jean-François Champollion announces his success in deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphs using the Rosetta Stone in a letter to the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres in Paris (based on the work of Thomas Young).
The first volume includes Frederick Lukis's "Observations on the primeval antiquities of the Channel Islands" (pp.
Undated Swedish Maritime Administration side-scan sonar in the Baltic Sea locates a wreck, identified in 2019 as belonging to a date around 1500.
Excavations at Alalakh, Turkey, conducted by Leonard Woolley, begin (continue until 1949, interrupted by World War II).
A buckle depicting a man holding a spear in each hand is discovered at Finglesham Anglo-Saxon cemetery during excavations led by Sonia Chadwick Hawkes.
19 August: The Hydraulis of Dion, an ancient Greek water pipe organ is unearthed in Dion, northern Greece.
Bajo de la Campana Phoenician shipwreck site on the Mediterranean coast of Spain first identified by divers.
Publications Grafton Elliot Smith - On the Significance of the Geographical Distribution of Mummification: a study of the migrations of peoples and the spread of certain customs and beliefs.
Excavations March 8–May 28: Recovery of the major portions of the 1967 wreck of hydroplane Bluebird K7 and of the body of its driver Donald Campbell from Coniston Water in the Lake District of England.
Finds Helge Ingstad and Anne Stine Ingstad find apparent Viking site at L'Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland.
Explorations Giovanni Battista Belzoni travels extensively through Egypt, visiting Abu Simbel, Karnak and the Valley of the Kings, creating several excavation sites.
1719: December 2 - Workers in Falun Mine, Sweden, find the apparently petrified body of "Fet-Mats" Israelsson (d.
May begins excavations of the Principia of the Roman fort at Bremetennacum (Ribchester), Lancashire, England (continue to 1907).
Excavations March – Part of the podium of the Temple of Apollo in Mdina, Malta is discovered and subsequently excavated.
Deaths May 18 - Ernest Nash, German-born student of Roman architecture and pioneer of archaeological photography (born 1898).
Silver and gold tubes of the Maykop culture from a burial mound in Armenia, interpreted in 2022 as drinking straws for communal beer consumption.
Excavations Ballshi inscription, a 9th-century epigraph testifying to the christianization of Bulgaria Births 11 February – Anne Stine Ingstad, Norwegian archaeologist, co-discoverer of Viking artifacts at L'Anse aux Meadows (d.
Wright finds two other boats, in 1940 and 1963, the latter of which is later discovered to be the oldest Bronze Age boat in Western Europe.
December - Complete excavation of the Great Sphinx of Giza by Émile Baraize begins (continues to 1936).
Excavations at Arikamedu (Podouké) by the Société de l'histoire de l'Inde française begin (continue to 1945).
The tophet in Carthage is first excavated; since then, hundreds of urns and stelae (engraved stones) have been recovered.
Alexander Keiller and Harold St George Gray excavate Windmill Hill, Avebury, in England (continues to 1929).
18 – The Egyptian Ministry of the Interior reports that a 3,000-year-old gold bracelet belonging to the ancient pharaoh Amenemope, which disappeared from the Egyptian museum in Cairo, was stolen, melted down and sold, and several suspects were arrested.
1913) See also List of years in archaeology 1833 in archaeology 1835 in archaeology == References ==
14 – Archaeologists announced the discovery of a turtle shell-shaped box, a sacrificial altar and pits full of gold, bronze and jade relics at the Sanxingdui archaeological site, China.
Finds Publications 1685: Jacob Spon - Miscellanea eruditae antiquitatis Events 1683: June 6 - The Ashmolean Museum opens in Oxford.
Births Alexander Stuart Murray - Scottish archaeologist and museum curator (died 1904) See also List of years in archaeology 1840 in archaeology 1842 in archaeology == References ==
2022) Deaths 27 January – Canon William Greenwell, English archaeologist notable for his Grimes Graves excavations (b.
19 – Data from Gypsum Overlook, an 8800 year old site in the Tularosa Basin of New Mexico which currently has the oldest dated structures in the American Southwest, was announced.
Henry Christy publishes the first results of his joint explorations with Édouard Lartet of caves in the valley of the Vézère, in southern France.
1799: Vice President of the United States Thomas Jefferson, writing in Transactions of the American Philosophical Society 4, describes the bones of Megalonyx jeffersonii, an extinct ground sloth.
William Collings Lukis and Sir Henry Dryden, Bart., survey megalithic monuments in Scotland, Cumberland and Westmoreland.
Events United Fruit Company purchases land in Guatemala including the Maya site of Quiriguá; 30 acres (120,000 m2) including and around the ruins are set aside as an archaeological zone.
Finds 1704: The Carpentras Stele, inscribed in the Phoenician alphabet, is found in southern France and published by Jean-Pierre Rigord as the first ancient Aramaic inscription ever published in full.
Finds Spring: The Lewis chessmen are found in a sand-bank on the Isle of Lewis 24 October: The Alexander Mosaic is found in the House of the Faun, Pompeii Births 7 June: Amelia Edwards, English Egyptologist and fiction writer (died 1892) == References ==
Finds March – Swash Channel Wreck, a continental European armed merchantman of the early 17th century, is found off the south coast of England.
Finds March - Wreck of HMS Swift (1763) located in Puerto Deseado on the Atlantic coast of Patagonia.
Teeth from Grotta del Cavallo in southern Italy, identified in 2011 as the oldest known remains of European early modern humans.
'Ardi', the fossilized skeletal remains of a female Ardipithecus ramidus, discovered at Aramis, Ethiopia, in the Afar Depression, the oldest known hominid fossil (4.4 million years old).
Births 1784: July 25 – Richard William Howard Vyse, English soldier, anthropologist and Egyptologist (d.
Finds 1738: First formal excavations of Herculaneum, by Roque Joaquín de Alcubierre sponsored by Charles III of Spain Publications 1732: John Horsley - Britannia Romana (posthumous).
Oxford University Press, hardcover, 3 vols, ISBN 0-19-510234-7 Finds July 7: Pottery fragments from 12,000 years BP at Zengpiyan cave site in China.
Jesús Carballo begins the first excavations at the archaeological site of Atapuerca in northern Spain.
Finds March 23 - Stone coffin of Thomas, 2nd Earl of Lancaster (executed 1322) is found at Ferry Fryston in West Yorkshire (England).
Excavations at the Roman fort of Petuaria near Brough, East Riding of Yorkshire, England, begin (continue to 1962).
1920) See also List of years in archaeology 1843 in archaeology 1845 in archaeology == References ==
The Ormside bowl, a gilded silver Anglo-Saxon double-bowl, dating from the mid-8th century, is found in Great Ormside, Cumbria.
1890) 1793: January 22 - Caspar Reuvens, founder of Rijksmuseum van Oudheden (Netherlands National Museum of Antiquities), first professor of archaeology (d.
1694 - Maltese canon Ignazio di Costanzo reports in a letter that the Cippi of Melqart bear an inscription in the Phoenician alphabet.
Publications 1740: Nicholas Mahudel's Les Monumens les plus anciens de l'industrie des hommes, des Arts et reconnus dans les pierres de Foudres, by the Académie des inscriptions et belles-lettres.
May 1 – Horncastle boar's head, an early 7th-century Anglo-Saxon ornament, probably part of a helmet crest, discovered in the eastern English town of Horncastle by a metal detectorist.
Explorations Karl Richard Lepsius examines, describes, and maps Meroë; and partially explores the upper passage of tomb KV20 in the Valley of the Kings.
Births 1702: August 16 - Roque Joaquín de Alcubierre, Spanish-born military engineer and pioneer Classical archaeologist (d.
Explorations Dives confirm the wreck of a submarine off Dartmouth, Devon (England) to be HMS D1, the prototype British D-class submarine of 1909, expended and scuttled here in 1918.
Finds 26 June – British submarine HMS Vandal, lost on sea trials in 1943, is rediscovered in the Sound of Bute off the west coast of Scotland.
Marc Bermann – Lukurmata: Household Archaeology in Prehispanic Bolivia (Princeton University Press).
Excavations Excavation of Glastonbury Lake Village by Arthur Bulleid and Harold St George Gray begins.
Excavations National Institute of Anthropology and History excavations at Maya site of Chacchoben begin Ruth Shady's work on the Norte Chico civilization site at Caral in Peru begins Martin Carver's excavations of an early medieval Pictish monastery at Portmahomack, Scotland, begin Jeffrey P.
Dog remains found in two caves, Paglicci Cave and Grotta Romanelli, in Apulia, Italy, are dated to between 20,000 and 14,000 years ago.
December 17 - The late post-classic Mexica Aztec sun stone is discovered during repairs to Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral.
Finds October: Johan Gunnar Andersson announces the discovery of two human molars amongst the material excavated from the Peking Man site in Zhoukoudian, China by his assistant Otto Zdansky in 1921 and 1923.
Shang dynasty road discovered at Anyang Aero Sports School near Yinxu, the ancient capital of China.
1905) See also List of years in archaeology 1829 in archaeology 1831 in archaeology == References ==
Events 8 June – Antiquities Act is passed by the United States Congress 29 June – Mesa Verde, an Ancestral Puebloan site, is made a United States National Park September – A military balloon is flown over Stonehenge carrying out the first aerial photography in archaeology.
Explorations Excavations 1748: Jeong Ji-hae, a Yangban and father of the Governor of Jinju, excavates six Goryeo Dynasty (AD 918-1392) tombs of individuals whom Jeong thought may have been his ancestors, and thus becomes the first archaeologist in Korea.
Events May–September - Tomb of Casimir IV Jagiellon in Wawel Cathedral, Kraków, opened for conservation.
1736: Francis Drake - Eboracum (Roman York) Other events 1731: December 8 - Antiquarian John Freeman buries a 'time capsule' in the grounds of his house at Fawley Court in England.
April 20 – The Augustus of Prima Porta is found in excavations in the Villa of Livia at Prima Porta, near Rome.
Events Chemical tests indicate that the Etruscan terracotta warriors in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, are modern fakes.
Explorations Excavations Finds 1693 - Alfred Jewel discovered at North Petherton in Somerset, England.
Excavations October - The KV16 burial site of Ramesses I in the East Valley of the Kings is discovered and excavated by Giovanni Battista Belzoni.
The National Museums of Kenya, a governmental body maintaining several museums and monuments in Kenya (with headquarters in Nairobi), is founded by the East Africa Natural History Society.
November 20 – Luigi Palma di Cesnola, Italian American soldier, diplomat, archaeologist and museum director (born 1832) == References ==
Publications Rudolf Ernst Brünnow and Alfred von Domaszewski begin publication of Die Provincia Arabia, containing a detailed description of Petra.
Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza, Paolo Menozzi and Alberto Piazza – The History and Geography of Human Genes (Princeton University Press).
Births 5 January – Kathleen Kenyon, English archaeologist of the Neolithic Fertile Crescent and college principal (d.
Excavations 1786: Excavation of a Roman villa near Warminster in England by antiquarian Catherine Downes.
1907) See also List of years in archaeology 1846 in archaeology 1848 in archaeology == References ==
16 – A 3,800-year-old Middle Bronze Age kurgan, believed to be the burial site of a warrior was discovered in the Ceyranchol plain, near the village of Yovshanlidere, Azerbaijan.
1734: November 12 - Nicholas Mahudel reads a paper to the Académie des inscriptions et belles-lettres on Three Successive Ages of Stone, Bronze, and Iron, introducing the concept of the Stone, Bronze and Iron Ages.
February 1 – Velia excavation reported the discovery of two well-preserved bronze Greek helmets with Etruscan design, the remains of a painted brick wall and vases at the site of Velia in Italy.
First formal excavations at Aphrodisias in Anatolia, by French railroad engineer Paul Augustin Gaudin, begin.
Miscellaneous Glyn Daniel is elected to the Disney Professorship of Archaeology in the University of Cambridge.
Births October 21 - Julian Cope, English post-punk singer-songwriter and antiquarian November 28 - Judith McKenzie, Australian archaeologist (d.
1747: The mummified remains known as "Amcotts Moor Woman", a bog body, is unearthed from a peat bog in Lincolnshire, England.
Institutions Pitt Rivers Museum established by donation of Augustus Pitt Rivers' anthropological and archaeological collections to the University of Oxford.
The text of the Iguvine Tablets (3rd–1st centuries BC) is first published, by Francis William Newman in London.
Early human jawbone found in proximity to flint tools at Moulin Quignon in France by Jacques Boucher de Crèvecœur de Perthes, subsequently considered a hoax perpetrated by one of his diggers.
June Nazi German submarine U-966, sunk in 1943 off the coast of Galicia (Spain), discovered by Spanish divers.
Publications "Note sur une statuette mexicaine en wernerite représentant la déesse Ixcuina" by Ernest-Théodore Hamy in the Journal de la Société des Américanistes about the Dumbarton Oaks birthing figure.
August: Excavations at Castle Tower, Penmaen, in Wales begin, led by Leslie Alcock of University College Cardiff.
Malaysian archaeologists report the discovery of seven stone axes possibly dating back 1.8 million years, which would make these the oldest stone axes known.
Thomas Wright investigates Kit's Coty House, the remains of a Neolithic chambered long barrow in Kent, England.
Births June 7 - Giuseppe Fiorelli, Italian archaeologist of Pompeii (died 1896) November 17 - John Evans, English archaeologist (died 1908) Deaths December 3 - Giovanni Battista Belzoni, Italian explorer of Egyptian antiquities (born 1778) See also Ancient Egypt / Egyptology == References ==
The term, a Spanish translation of a Navajo word, is thought to be the origin for "Chacra Mesa" and "Chaco".
Explorations Excavations Finds Events 1632: Posthumous publication of Antonio Bosio's Roma Sotterranea, the results of his lifelong systematic exploration of the Roman catacombs.
The Aurignacian settlement site at Breitenbach in Saxony-Anhalt is discovered by local schoolteacher E.
16 – Two small stone 'plaquettes' are found in the Leang Bulu Bettue cave, Sulawesi, Indonesia, date to a time between 26,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Explorations Excavations Finds 1661: Athanasius Kircher discovers the ruins of a church in Rome said to have been constructed by the Emperor Constantine on the site of Saint Eustace's vision (later reconstructed as the Santuario della Mentorella).
British transport ship SS Empire Heritage (torpedoed in 1944) is located off Tory Island, County Donegal.
Material unearthed by Otto Zdansky's excavations at Peking Man Site in Zhoukoudian, China will eventually yield two human molars, but these finds are not announced until 1926.
1877) See also List of years in archaeology 1959 in archaeology 1961 in archaeology == References ==
Finds Uaxactun and the first known Maya inscription from the 8th Baktun of the Maya calendar are found by Sylvanus G.
December 15 - Announcement of discovery of an Egyptian high priest's tomb, dating back to 4,400 years ago, in Saqqara.
15 – Discovery of a 1,500-year-old silver extraction site and a lead-lined coffin inside a stone mausoleum at the same location in Kent (South East England) was announced.
Publications Biblical Researches in Palestine, the Sinai, Petrae and Adjacent Regions by Edward Robinson, based on his survey conducted over several years, proposes identification of Biblical names with modern sites.
Summer - Smythe's Megalith, a Neolithic tomb, is discovered in Kent, England, and excavated by local antiquarian Clement Smythe.
Events 1693 - John Aubrey completes his Monumenta Britannica, or, A miscellanie of British antiquities in manuscript.
1799: July 15 - At the town of Rosetta (Rashid), a harbor on the Mediterranean coast of Egypt, French troops find the Rosetta Stone, inscribed with parallel texts in Greek, Egyptian demotic and hieroglyphs (translated in 1822 by Jean-François Champollion).
July – Gold hunters who have used heavy machinery to excavate the two millennia-old Jabal Maragha archaeological site in the Bayuda Desert, Sudan, destroying it, having been arrested and had their equipment seized, are released without charges.
Finds February – Remains of oldest known European early modern humans at this time found in Peștera cu Oase, Romania.
Roman amphitheatre at Isca Augusta near Caerleon in South Wales excavated by Victor Erle Nash-Williams.
1853) June 27 - Harry Burton, English archaeological photographer, known for his photos of the excavation of Tutankhamun's tomb (b.
It is put on public display and published in 1746, but poorly cared for until it gets an official curator, half a century later.
Finds A carving on mammoth ivory of a woolly mammoth is found by Édouard Lartet in Abri de la Madeleine cave in France, the first widely accepted evidence for the coexistence of humans with extinct prehistoric animals and the first contemporary depiction of such a creature known to modern science.
Publications John Evans – The Coins of the Ancient Britons William Collings Lukis – "Danish Cromlechs and Burial Customs compared with those of Brittany, the Channel Islands, and Great Britain".
24 November: 'Lucy', the skeleton of a 3.2-million-year-old Australopithecus afarensis, discovered at Hadar, Ethiopia, in the Afar Depression.
Publications 1774: Don Bernardo Miera y Pacheco identifies the Chaco Canyon area as "Chaca" on a map.
1658: Thomas Browne - Hydriotaphia, Urn Burial, or a Discourse of the Sepulchral Urns lately found in Norfolk.
Anil de Silva plans an all-woman expedition to China (at this time closed to Western visitors) for herself, Romila Thapar and photographer Dominique Darbois to study the cave paintings in Dunhuang and the Maijishan Grottoes in Gansu province.
Peking Man Site at Zhoukoudian, China is excavated a second time by Otto Zdansky under the supervision of Johan Gunnar Andersson.
November: Ringlemere Cup (Bronze Age) found by metal-detectorist Cliff Bradshaw near Dover, England.
Excavations Start of excavations at Tell Uqair by Iraqi Directorate General of Antiquities (Seton Lloyd, Taha Baqir and Fuad Safar).
1798: December 10 - Some antiquities being shipped to England by Sir William Hamilton are lost in the wreck of HMS Colossus.
August: In England, a metal detectorist discovers the Shrewsbury Hoard, a hoard of about 10,000 Roman coins.
Initially thought to belong to the ceratopsian Protoceratops, they will be determined in 1995 actually to belong to the theropod Oviraptor.
The bones are discovered with those of the woolly mammoth, proving that the two had coexisted, although Buckland dates the human remains as Roman.
It confirms the descriptions of bulkheaded hull compartments for junks in Zhu Yu's Pingzhou Table Talks of 1119.
Publications Faustino Corsi's catalogue of ancient and comparative decorative stone, Catalogo ragionato d’una collezione di pietre di decorazione at Google Books, is published in Rome.
September – Egyptian archeologists announce the discovery of more than 100 mummies – some from 500 BC and most from Roman time – in the Valley of the Golden Mummies.
Finds Continuing excavations at Peking Man Site in Zhoukoudian, China led by Davidson Black uncover more fossils of a new species he dubs Sinanthropus pekinensis.
Winter 1904–5 – Inscription in a form of Proto-Sinaitic script, dated to the mid-19th century BCE, discovered in Sinai by Hilda and Flinders Petrie.
Explorations May 5: The Synagogue of Tomar in Portugal is purchased by scholar Samuel Schwarz for the purposes of excavation, restoration and preservation.
Chinese excavations at Peking Man Site in Zhoukoudian, begun in 1927 by Davidson Black, and Yinxu, begun in 1928 by Li Chi, come to an end with the outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War.
Explorations Excavations Finds 1673: December 11 - Gray's Inn Lane Hand Axe excavated in London and recognised by John Conyers, the first paleolithic artefact to be identified as having human origins.
Events June 13 - Caspar Reuvens is appointed as the world's first professor of archaeology, at Leiden University in the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Excavations Neolithic ceremonial site of Göbekli Tepe in Turkey commenced under German archaeologist Klaus Schmidt.
Publications Views of Ancient Monuments in Central America by Frederick Catherwood, with color lithographs of ruins of the Maya civilization.
International excavations of the Middle Stone Age occupation cave sites at Pinnacle Point near Mossel Bay in South Africa begin.
Explorations February: Thomas Gann visits the Maya ruin of Coba, and publishes the first first-hand description of the site later in the year.
Desecration of royal and ecclesiastical graves at the site of Hyde Abbey (near Winchester) in England by convict labour.
Births May 19 - Alice Roberts, English evolutionary biologist, biological anthropologist and science and archaeology populariser Deaths == References ==
Gradin, Argentine archaeologist (born 1918) April 28 – Gordon Willey, American archaeologist (born 1913) June 26 – Barbara Adams, English Egyptologist (born 1945) See also Syria - ongoing excavations.
Events 1625: Last cannon salvaged from English ship Revenge (sank following Battle of Flores (1591)) Births 1620: 15 February - François Charpentier, French archaeologist (d.
Excavation of Susa in Iran by a French expedition led by Jacques de Morgan begins (continues to 1911).
November 22 - Frédéric Cailliaud discovers the old Roman Mons Smaragdus emerald mines at Sikait, Egypt.
April - Nazi German submarine U-3523, sunk in 1945 in the Skagerrak, discovered by Sea War Museum Jutland.
Births Henry Syer Cuming, antiquarian, collector and secretary of the British Archaeological Association (d.
Robert Huntington donates the limestone false door stele of Shery from Saqqara (Fourth Dynasty of Egypt), one of the first large Middle Eastern sculptures seen in Western Europe.
1676 The first fossilised bone of what will be recognised as a dinosaur is discovered in England by Robert Plot, the femur of a Megalosaurus from a limestone quarry at Cornwell near Chipping Norton, Oxfordshire.
13 – Archaeologists announced that they had discovered a child skeleton in an oval-shaped pit in Tozkoparan Mound in Pertek district, Turkey.
Publications Michael Aston and Trevor Rowley - Landscape Archaeology: an introduction to fieldwork techniques on post-Roman landscapes.
26 – A prehistoric burial ground dating back to the Middle Iron Age (around 500–250 BC) was discovered in Heerde, Netherlands.
Publications Samuel Ferguson's Ogham Inscriptions in Ireland, Wales and Scotland is published posthumously.
July - Discovered the rests of a man of the Ortoiroid culture in Vieques island, Puerto Rico, dated back about 2000 b.c.
Events 1667: Henry Howard donates the first of the Arundel marbles to the University of Oxford (displayed in Ashmolean Museum).
1796: The Roman fort, vicus, bridge abutments and associated remains of Hadrian's Wall are excavated at Chesters, in England.
Construction work on the New York City Subway uncovers remains of a ship believed to be the Tyger, burned in 1613.
Finds February 7: Discovery of "Deep Skull" in Niah Caves in Sarawak by Barbara and Tom Harrisson, at around 40,000 years BP the oldest known evidence of Homo sapiens in southeast Asia.
Explorations Excavations Finds Publications 1655: William Dugdale - Monasticon Anglicanum begins publication.
Excavations October – Augustus Pitt Rivers begins excavation of the Romano-British settlement site on Woodcutts Common, on his Cranborne Chase estate in Dorset.
November 19 – Hallaton Treasure found in Leicestershire, England, comprising over 5,000 silver and gold coins, mostly of the Corieltauvi, the Hallaton Helmet and other metal objects from around the time of the Roman conquest of Britain.
Cultivation Streptocarpus goetzeanus is very hard to cultivate due to the narrow conditions it needs to grow, such as mossy rock surfaces in deep shade.
The plants produce small, bright lavender flowers and have oval serrated leaves with dark green colouration around the veins.
Taxonomy The genus Calla and its sole species Calla palustris were first described by Carl Linnaeus in 1753.
Senecio macroglossus, the Natal ivy, marguerite ivy, climbing senecio or wax ivy, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to southern Africa, from Zimbabwe and Mozambique to eastern South Africa.
Bailey because many of them enjoy bright and dry environments similar to a windowsill above a radiator.
It exhibits foliage dimorphism, where juvenile leaves look different from mature leaves of the same plant.
Mallet canes The strict definition of a Mallet (pronounced like "ballet") cane would be the original B.
This plant exhibits a clearly visible wax layer (farina) on its leaves and stems, an indication of its preference for (bright) shade and sheltering from hot sun.
Orchidarium may refer to: A vivarium, specifically for the cultivation of orchids An area in a park or botanical garden dedicated to orchids
Occurring in spring, the small white or pinkish-white flowers are 0.3–0.5 cm long and arise in clusters off the stem.
It is found on many Caribbean islands and territories, including Cuba, Grand Bahama, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Hispaniola, Îles des Saintes, Jamaica, Martinique, Puerto Rico, Saba, Saint Kitts and Trinidad and Tobago.
History and horticulture Named for the Belgian industrialist and horticulturalist Arthur Warocqué (1835–1880), the queen Anthurium was first collected from Colombia in 1874 by Gustav Wallis (along with Anthurium veitchii) during his time working for Veitch Nurseries.
It was one of the many species authored by Scottish botanist Robert Brown, appearing in his 1810 work Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen.
Marechal Floriano is the capital of a municipality of the same name in the state of Espírito Santo, Brazil.
Flowers are inflorescent with a 2–5 cm peduncle, 6.4-11.4 cm single leaf surrounding the stamen (called a spathe), and a 5.5 cm-12.5 cm spadix.
There are a number of similar Southern Hemisphere species which have a similar mode of reproduction, including A.
Cultivation With a minimum temperature of 5–7 °C (41–45 °F), it is frequently grown as a houseplant in temperate regions.
The leaves are 60–120 cm (24–47 in) long, pinnate, with around 100 leaflets arranged in a single plane (unlike the related P.
A rhizomatous epiphyte or lithophyte reaching 0.5 m (1 ft 8 in), it is typically found in the subtropics.
Description Dracaena bagamoyensis grows long stems (over 60 centimetres (2.0 ft)), with slender, flat, succulent leaves.
Taxonomy This group of plants has lived in the biodiverse Eastern Arc Usambara Mountains in Tanga Province for millions of years.
Its floral scents dihydro-β-ionone and 2-hydroxy-5-methyl-3-hexanone serve to attract its pollinators, scarab beetles of the genus Cyclocephala.
Allergic reactions The plant is a major source of indoor allergens, ranking as the third-most common cause of indoor allergies after dust and pets.
This evergreen epiphytic perennial is native to rainforest habitats in Central America, northern and central South America and southern Mexico.
Cultivation and toxicity Asparagus aethiopicus is grown as an indoor plant in cooler climates, or as an ornamental garden plant in urban gardens, rockeries or in pots.
Not frost tolerant and preferring warmer weather, the plant may become sunburned from incessant sun exposure.
Its systematic position has been described as "puzzling", and it has also been placed in its own family Callaceae and its own subfamily Calloideae.
Peperomia flowers are typically unnoticeable, growing in cordlike spikes, although there are some exceptions such as P.
Asplenium gracillimum is a fern species native to Australia and New Zealand, also found in Stewart Island and the Chatham Islands.
Though the leaves may well decay, succulent bulb-like structures should form in the bag, and these may be potted up to produce new plants.
Flowers Inflorescences grow from the center of the crown of leaves, on stalks up to 30 centimetres (12 inches) in length.
The leaves of Kalanchoe delagoensis are linear, while Kalanchoe daigremontiana has lanceolate, oblong, ovate or triangular leaves.
In the summer months, the high temperature and the dryness lead to the death of the aerial plant parts.
Ornamental uses Alocasia portei is valued as an ornamental plant in homes due to its striking leaf shape uncommon in other Alocasia species, which have heart or arrow-shaped leaves.
A toxicological experiment using brine shrimp as a lethality assay did not indicate lethality to the shrimp.
Begonia crassicaulis is classified as upright in Brad's Begonia World, but it might also be classified as thick-stemmed or even caudiciform.
It is also toxic if eaten, though in small quantities, it has been used in herbal medicine to treat gastric ulcers.
They are moderately cold-hardy citrus, but it is said of the seedless mukakukishu variety that trees should be taken indoors or wrapped in a frost cloth when temperatures fall below either freezing, or 20 °F (−7 °C).
It can root easily from stem cuttings, if allowed to dry for 3–7 days before planting so that it can form a callus and not rot.
Morphology Plants grow up to 1 m (3 ft 3 in) tall and have opposite-decussate, fleshy ovate to elongated-triangular leaves which grow up to 20 cm (8 in) long and 5 cm (2 in) wide.
It was given its name in honor of Field Marshal (in Portuguese: "Marechal") Floriano Peixoto, the first vice-president of the Brazilian Republic.
In South Africa the species occurs widely, though not generally profusely, mainly on moist sandstone cliffs in full shade.
Streptocarpus ionanthus (synonym Saintpaulia ionantha) is a species of Streptocarpus in the section Saintpaulia, commonly known as an African violet.
A succulent, its 'Variegatum' cultivar has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit as a houseplant.
Begonia gehrtii and Begonia paulensis fall into this class, though some think these species should be considered shrub-like.
The often misspelled "Kimberley Queen" name correctly has a second "e" in the first name as is trademarked by Westland Laboratories Ply.
It is sometimes referred to by the common names Chinese croton, blindness tree, buta buta, and jungle fire plant.
In winter, it is preferable that the temperature of the room it's housed in does not exceed 12–14 °C (53+1⁄2–57 °F).
Varieties and forms There are two natural varieties and several named forms, distinguished by flowering time and predominant petal color.
Pteris parkeri, the silver ribbon fern, is a species of evergreen fern in the family Pteridaceae, native to Japan, Taiwan and Korea.
Nephrolepis obliterata, the Kimberley Queen fern or Australian swordfern, is a species of fern in the family Nephrolepidaceae.
The placement and validity of such varieties, and of any potential hybrids and cultivars within the complex is unclear, including 'Jackrabbit' and 'Thibautians'.
Together with Disocactus speciosus and Epiphyllum crenatum it forms the great trio behind the huge group of orchid cacti known today.
Description Campyloneurum phyllitidis is an epiphyte, growing on other plants; generally the fern is found growing in the canopies of trees.
Native range extends from Northern Australia through Malaysia and Indochina into southern China, Taiwan, Japan, and as far as Melanesia.
Common as a houseplant, the species requires warm temperatures, shade, and humidity to thrive, and may produce small yellow flowers.
Streptocarpus goetzeanus, synonym Saintpaulia goetzeana, is a species of Streptocarpus in the section Saintpaulia, commonly known as an African violet.
Uses Campyloneurum phyllitidis is cultivated as an ornamental plant, and is the most common species of Campyloneurum found in cultivation.
References External links Media related to Zamioculcas zamiifolia at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Zamioculcas at Wikispecies
Male zone spadixes are about 8 cm (3.1 in) long and are white-ish, while female zone spadixes are about 4 cm (1.6 in) long and white.
Zamioculcas zamiifolia 'Super Nova' Zamioculcas zamiifolia 'Chameleon' Temperature It may survive outdoors as long as the temperature does not fall below around 15 °C (60 °F); though best growth is between 18 and 26 °C (64 and 79 °F) while high temperatures give an increase in leaf production.
This is the case, for example, with Peperomia orba (often sold as Peperomia 'Pixie'), Peperomia viridis, and Peperomia axillaris.
elatior is well known in cultivation and has a reputation for withstanding neglect, giving rise to its common name of cast-iron plant.
Characteristics Streptocarpus goetzeanus has stems of about 40 cm in length with leaves of 1.6-3.8 cm long and 1.4-3.6 cm wide.
Instead of letting the plant hang, some gardeners prefer to add a small lattice or climbing pole for the plant, which would allow it to climb into a more visually interesting shape.
A problem that some trigonas face is that they are susceptible to falling over when fully grown because of their shallow and small root system.
Platycerium bifurcatum, commonly known as the elkhorn fern or staghorn fern, is a species of plant in the fern family Polypodiaceae native to Java, Bali, New Guinea, New South Wales, Queensland and Lord Howe Island.
In a flower pot, or at a smaller size, its growth is similar to many vining plants, following a drooping, creeping pattern.
Cultivation Kishu mandarin trees are commonly planted in household gardens in Japan, and grown in greenhouses, pots on balconies, sunny rooms, and commercial orchards.
It is a succulent perennial producing trailing stems up to 60 cm (24 in) long, with fleshy blue-green leaves and terminal pink to red flowers in summer.
Leaves are concolorous or variegated, glossy bright to dark green above and sometimes infused with white to yellowish dots; they are arranged in pseudowhorls with margins that are sometimes rough or smooth, apex is acuminate and base is cunneate.
A climber capable of reaching 4.6 m (15 ft) as a houseplant, it is can be found clambering up to the canopy in wet tropical forests.
It is among the most commonly cultivated bromeliad types, with cultivars producing flowers in shades of maroon, red, orange, yellow or pink.
Species There are over a thousand Peperomia species, although the exact number is unclear as some plants have been recorded several times with different names (c.
The plant's common names are due to its fuzzy, fur-like underleaf texture, which is unusual in its genus.
A popular colorful cultivar is "Firestorm." Precautions As with many of the Euphorbiaceae, the sap is toxic and can cause skin eczema in some people.
Kept as a houseplant for its striking foliage, it can handle more sunlight than the average begonia, and prefers a well-drained soil.
Often seen in moist or rainforest areas in eastern Australia, occasionally as an epiphyte on tree ferns or tree trunks.
The Bedouins of Mandate Palestine used to collect the root, and after grating it, would mix it with lime and sprinkle it over the surface of lakes or other large bodies of water known to contain fish.
It has been used in Europe in making "Sirop de Capt'llaire," a demulcent drink, employed in diseases of the chest." Cultivation Adiantum aethiopicum is a popular and well known ornamental plant.
Long sought after for its stunning foliage, Anthurium warocqueanum is well known for being difficult to care for, requiring high humidity, indirect light, and well-draining soil.
It was thought to be a sport or hybrid of Philodendron bipinnatifidum, and named Philodendron 'Winterbourn' and protected under Plant Breeder Rights in Australia.
Begonia acutifolia, the holly-leaf begonia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Begoniaceae, native to Cuba and Jamaica, and introduced to Saint Helena.
It very closely resembles the smaller related species, Dracaena serpenta and the more distichous species Dracaena phillipsiae.
Allowing air to reach the roots is particularly important in preventing root rot in epiphytic plants such as orchids and bromeliads, whose roots are exposed to the air in nature.
Hospitalization may be necessary if prolonged contact is made with the throat, in which severe swelling has the potential to affect breathing.
The smallest segments of the fronds are the pinnules, which are wedge-shaped, rectangular or trapezoid.
History The fruit is thought to have arisen in Southern China; it is believed to have been grown since the 700s.
Distribution Although sometimes thought to be of Chinese origin, the species is in fact native to southern Japan, including Kuroshima, Suwanosejima and the Uji Islands.
It is native to south Brazil and Paraguay, but is widely cultivated as a landscape plant in tropical, subtropical, and warm temperate climates.
Nephrolepis obliterata has the added benefit of reducing indoor air pollution, particularly formaldehyde, xylene, and toluene.
Philodendron campii is a species of flowering plant in the family Araceae, native to Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, and to adjoining parts of Brazil.
Its spine-tipped leaves are 12-16mm thick, elliptical (rather than round) in cross-section, and pale to dark green depending on sun exposure.
Begonia bowerae, the eyelash begonia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Begoniaceae, native to Oaxaca and Chiapas states of Mexico.
Dracaena suffruticosa, synonym Sansevieria suffruticosa is a species of Dracaena native to eastern Africa, from Ethiopia to Malawi.
Petrocosmea kerrii is a species of flowering plant in the family Gesneriaceae, sometimes cultivated as a houseplant.
Scutellaria is a genus also in the Lamiaceae; its name is derived from the Latin scutella, meaning a small dish or bowl.
Cultivation Dieffenbachia seguine is cultivated as an ornamental plant in temperate shade gardens and as a potted house plant.
Ctenanthe lubbersiana, called the bamburanta, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Ctenanthe, native to Brazil.
Philodendron adamantinum, synonym Thaumatophyllum adamantinum, is a plant in the genus Philodendron, in the family Araceae.
Physiology Plants of the genus Kalanchoe as well as many other plants growing in arid regions photosynthesize via Crassulacean acid metabolism.
Dieffenbachia is a perennial herbaceous plant with straight stem, simple and alternate leaves containing white spots and flecks, making it attractive as indoor foliage.
If grown outside, this plant should also be sheltered from extreme heat and excess rainfall; the delicate and fragile leaves will fall from the plant extremely easily, often with the slightest touch, especially during rainstorms.
All are frost-tender, and best grown under glass in temperate regions: Uses This species probably arrived in Paris before its first mention in 1620.
The root system is a mat of fibrous roots with bulbous water storage tubers, originating from a toughened "crown" at the base of the leaves, this crown including fragments left in the ground may resprout.
gastonis-bonnieri have thick green leaves more or less with brownish spots and often form plantlets at leaf tips.
Growing African violets from seed is rare, and most commercially available plants are produced from cuttings and tissue culture.
Euphorbia trigona, the African milk tree, cathedral cactus, or Abyssinian euphorbia, is a species of flowering plant that originates from Central Africa.
roseopicta is tender, with a minimum temperature of 16 °C (61 °F) required, and in temperate areas is cultivated indoors as a houseplant.
With both children and pets, contact with Dieffenbachia (typically from chewing) can cause a host of unpleasant symptoms, including intense numbing, oral irritation, excessive drooling, and localized swelling.
Philodendron xanadu, synonym Thaumatophyllum xanadu, is a perennial plant belonging to the arum family Araceae.
Because it is not as sensitive to a lack of humidity, it is better suited for the typical indoor environment.
Many have previously been treated as separate species in the no longer recognized genus Saintpaulia.
Alocasia portei is a species of flowering plant in the family Araceae, native to Luzon in the Philippines.
Sub-categories The American Begonia Society uses three sub-categories to group similar cane-like begonias together: Superba Canes, Mallet Canes, and All Others.
Canes can tolerate and even benefit from heavy pruning: up to two thirds of the plant can be cut away.
Native to Colombia, it is grown in more temperate climates as a greenhouse specimen or houseplant for its ornamental foliage.
The leaves range from light-green to very dark greenish-black, and can mature to 3–4 feet (0.9–1.2 m) long and 15 inches (38 cm) wide.
Shorter, more trailing forms have sometimes been described as separate species (under names such as Coleus pumilus or Solenostemon pumilus), but are all now considered part of the very variable C.
In the houseplant trade, many of the former species that were subsumed into Alocasia longiloba are now considered types or varieties, these include 'argyrea', 'korthalsii', 'lowii', and 'watsoniana'.
This could explain popular names such as German Empress, Deutsche Kaiserin, Giant Empress, Drottningkaktus (Swedish for Queen's Cactus).
Marechal Floriano is just over 60 km from Vitória, the capital of the state, and situated in the southeastern Brazilian Highlands.
It has many common names, including centipede tongavine, taro vine, silver vine and dragon-tail plant.
It is native to South America, namely to Southeast Brazil, but is also cultivated as a houseplant in cooler climates.
Growth Philodendron adamantinum is a shrub that grows up to 5 feet (1.5 m) tall, and its adventitious roots can spread 33 feet (10 m) in all directions.
Uses Excoecaria cochinchinensis is cultivated as an ornamental tropical plant, greenhouse plant, or houseplant.
All of them are the offspring of a single mildly-hybrid citrus (citrus plants generally hybridize freely).
Water and fertilizer are held in a reservoir and conducted to the roots as necessary, reducing labor and providing a constant supply of water to the roots.
Other countries it is native to include the Southeastern United States, Cuba, Costa Rica, Bolivia, and Venezuela.
The fern was described by an author of the time, Shirley Hibberd, as being "very distinct" and that it formed a "striking object when grown well".
Name Despite its common name, and its resemblance to common ivy, it is not closely related to that group of plants.
It needs little pruning to develop a strong structure, is resistant to pests, is tolerant to soil variation, and is moderately drought tolerant.
The name Curio × peregrinus was published in 1999, based on the earlier name Kleinia peregrina; however, this name was not validly published.
Like other members of Bryophyllum (now included in the genus Kalanchoe), it can propagate vegetatively from plantlets that develop on its leaf margins, as well as through upshoots from lateral roots, and seeds.
In the Cape Peninsula it is uncommon and grows mainly at the highest locally available altitudes, generally about 600–1,085 m (2,000–3,600 ft).
Dracaena bagamoyensis, synonym Sansevieria bagamoyensis, also known as snake plant is a succulent plant native to Kenya and Tanzania.
Goeppertia roseopicta is a species of flowering plant in the arrowroot and prayer-plant family Marantaceae, native to northwestern Brazil's Amazonian basin.
Description Growing to 60 cm (24 in) tall and wide, it is an evergreen rhizomatous perennial, with glossy dark-green leaves 30–50 cm (12–20 in) long and fleshy 8-lobed cream flowers with maroon colouring on the inner surface borne in early summer.
This species, like others of the former Nopalxochia, shows affinity to Weberocereus making the systematics of this group even more complex.
Description Alocasia portei is a massive, thick-stemmed plant with a base that thickens even more with age.
A remarkable feature of this species is the early age of the onset of flowering, with some plants blooming with a height of only 30 centimetres (12 in).
The surrounding municipalities are to the north, Domingos Martins, and to the south, Guarapari and Alfredo Chaves.
Saintpaulia amaniensis, Saintpaulia confusa, Saintpaulia difficilis, Saintpaulia grotei, Saintpaulia magungensis) Streptocarpus ionanthus subsp.
In the 1997 film Amistad, ex-president John Quincy Adams shows the lead slave Joseph Cinqué his flower collection which contains an African violet which Cinque then recognises from his home land.
With a minimum temperature requirement of 5 °C (41 °F), in temperate regions it may be grown outdoors in sheltered locations, otherwise as a houseplant.
lingulata – Guyana, Suriname, Jamaica, Venezuelan Antilles; naturalized in Bermuda References External links Media related to Guzmania lingulata at Wikimedia Commons FCBS Guzmania photos
In a potted environment, plants can be pruned with caution; older, lower leaves can be pruned at the base of the leaf stem, but cutting off the growing point (known as the apical meristem or heart) where the new leaves emerge at the top of the stem is fatal.
As an ornamental plant, it is noted for its light green, oval leaves with a fine venation of yellow.
hygroscopica grows to about 15 centimetres (6 in), and forms a dense, velvety clump that flowers over many weeks in the warm months.
Davallia tyermanii, the bear's foot fern or white rabbit's foot fern, is a species of fern in the family Davalliaceae, native to northern Myanmar, southern China, and Taiwan.
Dieffenbachia seguine, widely known as dumbcane, as well as leopard lily or tuftroot, is a species of Dieffenbachia, a flowering aroid plant of the family Araceae (the arums).
Dracaena surculosa, called the gold dust dracaena and spotted dracaena, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asparagaceae, native to west and west-central tropical Africa, from Guinea to the Republic of the Congo.
It requires a constant temperature of 18–24 °C (64–75 °F), high humidity levels at all times, and bright indirect light.
This beautiful plant grows to a height of five or six meters, extending fleshy, toothed arms, dark pink star-shaped flowers and small eyes.
surculosa Description A branched shrub or small tree that commonly grows less than 4 m in height but occasionally reaches 8 m, it has reddish brown tuberous roots that sometimes produce canelike shoots that are sometimes clad in thin greenish to white phrophylls.
morganianum has been found wild in two ravines at Tenampa county, in central Veracruz, in eastern Mexico and on vertical cliffs of igneous rock in the Tropical Deciduous Forest zone.
They are called "palm beachbells" or "donkey ear plants" as they have leaves resembling the shape of a donkey's ear.
The species is considered to have the smallest seeds of any flowering plant, with a weight of ~0.4 μg.
There are more than 700 known species, and hundreds of named and unnamed cultivars, making them the largest Begonia group in cultivation.
(In the Engler system, Calloideae had included the genera now placed in Orontioideae.) Molecular phylogenetic studies on the other hand place Calla within the subfamily Aroideae, where it may be given its own tribe Calleae.
All Superbas recognized today are descendants of those original hybrids, but not every descendant hybrid is considered Superba.
Furthermore, many individuals simply refer to the many Peperomias by their individual nicknames, such as Peperomia polybotrya being called the “Raindrop Peperomia” (due to its large, drop-shaped leaves), or P.
seguine is also found on the Galápagos islands of Santa Cruz and San Cristóbal, where it was likely introduced by humans.
Each flower has six triply veined tepals that are 6–9 mm (0.2–0.4 in) long and slightly hooded or boat-shaped at their tips.
Certain varietals and cultivars available in the plant trade often feature very dark-green to blackish or purple-mauve leaves with a range of pinks, reds and whites, often with little to no green tones.
Kratky method The Kratky Method is a specialized passive hydroponic technique which involves plants suspended in net pots above a non-circulating water and nutrient reservoir.
Description Growing to 3 m (10 ft) or more, it is an evergreen climber with waxy triangular leaves to 8 cm (3 in) long.
A deciduous tuberous geophyte reaching 0.5 m (20 in), it is typically found in scrublands and forests at elevations from 1,300 to 2,400 m (4,300 to 7,900 ft).
Campyloneurum phyllitidis, commonly known as the long strap fern, is a species of fern in the family Polypodiaceae.
Nephrolepis obliterata is sensitive to both too little and too much water, so water the plant well but permit the soil to dry out between waterings.
It enjoys light potting soil, good humidity and moderate lighting without direct sunlight, but it accommodates a certain dryness, high humidity or reduced lighting.
Coleus scutellarioides, commonly known as coleus, is a species of flowering plant in the family Lamiaceae (the mint or deadnettle family), native to southeast Asia through to Australia.
The plant has large heart-shaped leaves that grow up to around 1 m (3.3 ft) tall from an underground corm.
Aichryson × aizoides, youth-and-old-age, is a hybrid species of flowering plant in the family Crassulaceae, native to the Canary Islands.
Description Phoenix roebelenii is a small to medium-sized, slow-growing slender tree growing to 2–7 metres (6.6–23.0 ft) tall.
Boea is a genus of plants in the family Gesneriaceae, with species originating from Australia, China, India, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Polynesia, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, Nepal, Bhutan, Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos.
Cultivation and uses Phoenix roebelenii is a popular ornamental plant in gardens in tropical and subtropical climate areas.
Numerous cultivars have been developed, of which 'Variegatus', with cream-coloured leaf margins, has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Novelty The plant was a fashion trend in 2017, creating a furore in Japan after a Twitter account posted the plant, where it ultimately got 10.5k retweets.
aethiopicus can cause gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhea, vomiting and abdominal pain, and contact with the skin may cause dermatitis.
The roots spring from the underside, and the tops of the spirally arranged, long-stalked leaves of the plant spring from the top.
Formerly recognized Saintpaulia species and infraspecies are listed below with their accepted name in Streptocarpus.
Another disease is impatiens necrotic spot virus which causes brown or yellow spots on leaves, rings, black or brown stem discoloration, and brown leaf veins, ultimately resulting in plant death.
Calathea rufibarba), the furry feather or velvet calathea, is a species of flowering plant in the Marantaceae family, native to Bahia state of northeastern Brazil.
It was reported by Bonpland to have first flowered at Château de Malmaison and at the Botanical Garden of Montpellier, France.
Many media are available for passive hydroponics, but the most common are expanded clay pellets, coconut husk chips, perlite, vermiculite, diatomite, and rock wool.
Like other categories of Begonia, these don't have rigorous scientific definitions, but are used more generally to group cultivars with similar characteristics.
This species was among the first flat-stemmed species to be described, and the name recalls that it is similar to the first described flat-stemmed cactus Cactus phyllanthus today - Epiphyllum phyllanthus.
The stems are black and can reach 90 cm (36 in) in length, while the fronds or blades are triangular with rectangular segments.
However, the genus Thaumatophyllum was not accepted by Plants of the World Online and other taxonomic databases as of October 2025.
These observations, in addition to the fact that there appear to be overlapping generations of these plants in the aggregations, have led to the hypothesis that common staghorn ferns may display an incipient form of eusociality.
Once part of the municipality of Domingos Martins, the town of Marechal Floriano separated on October 31, 1991, becoming capital of its own municipality.
It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit as a subtropical hothouse ornamental.
Anthurium warocqueanum, commonly known as the Queen Anthurium, is a species of plant in the genus Anthurium.
Its leaves can be up to 25 cm (10 in) long, with a mix of purplish, green, and silvery green blotches.
Infraspecific taxa As of March 2020, Plants of the World Online accepted the following subspecies and varieties.
It is often called, incorrectly, Senecio peregrinus, but that name was previously given, by Grisebach in 1879, to a different species from South America.
The young foliage is light green and slightly wavy, the older leaves are green and smooth; the leaf blade is ovate to ovate-lanceolate with wedge-shaped to broadly rounded base and ends with a short dropper tip.
They range is leaf size from miniature to more than two feet across and come in a wide range of colors.
External links University of Arizona, gardening: Asparagus densiflorus Archived 2015-06-17 at the Wayback Machine Australia Weeds: Asparagus densiflorus photo of herbarium specimen at Missouri Botanical Garden, collected in Florida in 2007
It is also a medical term used for a premonitory symptom, that is, a symptom indicating the onset of a disease.
Lewis (repackaged edition 2015) Search Inside Yourself by Chade-Meng Tan (2012) The End of Dieting by Dr.
After editing Blackbird uploads the full quality frames used in the finished programme into the Cloud, or alternative eco-systems via Blackbird Edge.
In 2013, Nurimedia signed an agreement with KISTI to add 700,000 science and technology academic papers to their database.
On 6 November 2013, Nora was replaced by Sophie de Closets, who officially took over at the beginning of 2014.
Career In 1927, Wolff worked in Munich where she went from trainee to being in charge of art books for Kurt Wolff Press.
A 2003 study in The International Journal of Press/Politics concluded that Haaretz's reporting of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict was more favorable to Israelis than to Palestinians but less so than that of The New York Times.
See also Television portal References External links Official website (in French) Programmes on Encyclopédia (in French)
Markup languages Formatting can be marked by tags distinguished from the body text by special characters, such as angle brackets in HTML.
Equipment manufacturers apply them as permanent markings for their products as they are durable, and their three-dimensional appearance catches the eye.
The difference between the vertical periods pb, pr, and the distances Tb, Tr is shown in the diagram of Figure 8.
The organization was founded in Mexico on November 18, 1965, by Arnaldo Orfila Reynal, the former director of the Fondo de Cultura Económica, who directed it until 1989.
Many markup languages can also be edited with specialized software designed to automate some functions or present the output as WYSIWYG.
The material can be any print-industry recognized label material (from paper to many forms of plastic).
Key aspects The Global Digital Compact aims to bring together governments, private sector entities, civil society organizations, and other stakeholders to work collaboratively on a set of shared principles and commitments.
Other notable prodromi include Prodromus Entomology, Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen, Prodromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis.
This demanding ambition required increasing supervision and, together with the establishment of new Corpus-related initiatives, it has been necessary to establish new academic partnerships, comprising leading scholars and academic centres, to supervise every single Corpus series.
Descriptions of the material conform to ISAD(G) (Second edition), whilst information about key individuals conform to ISAAR(CPF).
In late 2016, Flat World Knowledge was acquired by Alastair Adam and John Eielson and rebranded as FlatWorld.
Programmes Its programmes consist of documentaries based on discovery, knowledge, and all scientific disciplines (ecology, medical science, astronomy, etc.).
Re-production and assessment of scientific experiments Scientists should be equipped with the facilities necessary to repeat or reproduce somebody else's experiment.
Recipes were distributed both as plain ASCII text, and marked up in troff, a widely available system on Unix systems.
As a result, the Ministry of Transport set up the Worboys Committee in 1963 to devise a consistent system of signage for British road signs.
In film, video, television, theater, etc., credits means the list of actors and behind-the-scenes staff who contributed to the production.
Scholarly bibliographers may describe such books based on the number of leaves in each gathering (eight leaves per gathering forming an octavo), even where the actual number of pages printed on the original sheet is unknown or may reject the use of these terms for modern books entirely.
The ILCA is not a competitor to the Canadian Association of Labour Media/Association canadienne de la presse syndicale (CALM/acps) (the organization representing labor media in Canada).
Emphasis, for example, could be achieved in ASCII in a number of ways: Capitalization: I am NOT making this up.
Hesperus was also responsible for publishing the UK edition of the best-seller The Hundred-Year-Old Man Who Climbed Out the Window and Disappeared by Swedish author Jonas Jonasson, released in July 2012.
Administrative guidance may not be used to pressure a petitioner into withdrawing or modifying a petition once they have indicated an intent not to do so (article 33).
The term folio in the modern context of paper size commonly refers to foolscap folio, which is print paper sized 8.5×13.5 in (216×343 mm), slightly larger (by 18.7%) than A4 paper.
International media views In 2006, the BBC said that Haaretz takes a moderate stance on foreign policy and security.
Credit in the arts In the creative arts, credits are an acknowledgment of those who participated in the production.
The Newspaper Preservation Act was touted as a relief measure to allow multiple newspapers competing in the same market to cut costs, thus ensuring that no one paper could have supremacy in the market by driving the other(s) out of business.
The Navigational Aids for the History of Science, Technology, and the Environment Project (NAHSTE) was a research archives/manuscripts cataloguing project based at the University of Edinburgh.
Cloud-based software provides greater scope for sharing information and collaborating compared to LAN or desktop based systems.
They are the funding of journals and issues associated with the peer review of articles, plagiarism, ownership rights, and the more mundane issues of copy editing.
The rules dealing with quotation marks are a good example of this: which ones to use and how to nest them, how much whitespace to leave on both sides, and when to integrate them with other punctuation marks.
The Council of Editors of Learned Journals emerged from a series of informal gatherings of editors at the Modern Language Association of America (MLA).
In modern usage, paragraph initiation is typically indicated by one or more of a preceding blank line, indentation, an "Initial" ("drop cap") or other indication.
Production The coating can be applied in liquid form in many different ways, ranging from manual application via syringe to optically-guided, automated dispensing equipment.
Scripps Company) folded in 2005 Charleston, West Virginia—Charleston Gazette (family owned) and Charleston Daily Mail (owned by Media News Group, minority stake) merged into the Charleston Gazette-Mail in 2015.
The superposition of two layers comprising parallel lines forms an optical image comprising parallel moiré lines with a magnified period.
The explanation proposed by Father Edward Catich in his 1968 book The Origin of the Serif is now broadly but not universally accepted: the Roman letter outlines were first painted onto stone, and the stone carvers followed the brush marks, which flared at stroke ends and corners, creating serifs.
In the seventeenth century, plays of the English Renaissance theatre were printed as collected editions in folio.
For example, original versions of the BSD license controversially required credit to be provided in the advertisement for software that used licensed code, but only if features or use of the licensed software was mentioned in the advertisement.
The gatherings were concerned with the same issues that are the subject matter of the organization to date.
Partial bibliography The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho (25th anniversary edition 2015) The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck by Mark Manson (2016) What Is the Bible?
The company publishes approximately 30 books per year, primarily "how to" books on subjects such as casino gambling, sports biographies, broadcasting and journalism.
Most, though not all, typefaces are similar in the following ways as regards the baseline: capital letters sit on the baseline.
Salman Schocken, a Jewish businessman who left Germany in 1934 after the Nazis had come to power, bought the paper in December 1935.
Blackbird is designed for both editing and video streaming over variable speed internet connections.
Orthotypographic rules vary broadly from language to language, from country to country, and even from publisher to publisher.
Readership and reception Despite its historically relatively low circulation in Israel, Haaretz has for many years been described as Israel's most influential daily newspaper.
The USENET Cookbook was an experiment in electronic publishing conducted by Brian Reid in 1985–1987, several years before the Web.
Mutual assurance contracts are used to create public goods by securing financial support for such goods.
The Corpus Christianorum (CC) is a major publishing undertaking of the Belgian publisher Brepols Publishers devoted to patristic and medieval Latin texts.
After the ink has cured (dried), the labels are laser- or die-cut and the waste material between labels removed from the press sheet.
In the creative arts and scientific literature, an acknowledgment (British English also acknowledgement[1]) is an expression of a gratitude for assistance in creating an original work.
As part of the consultative process, the United Nations invited input from individuals, groups, associations, organizations, and entities to help shape the Global Digital Compact.
Encyclopédia (Stylized ENCYCLO) was a French television channel dedicated to encyclopedic knowledge.
DuMont Schauberg's father, Kurt Neven DuMont, was a member of the German Nazi party, while his publishing house promoted Nazi ideology.
Relation to other initiatives The Global Digital Compact is related to various other international efforts, such as the Sustainable Development Goals, the UN Secretary-General's Roadmap on Digital Cooperation, and the Partner2Connect Digital Coalition.
In this restructuring, DuMont wants to transform itself from a consortium into a group of companies.
This includes shareholder and supervisory board chairwoman Isabella Neven DuMont, DuMont CEO Christoph Bauer, and CFO Stefan Hütwohl; in addition, since 2021, media managers Britta Weddeling (Marvel Fusion) and Katja Nettesheim (Mediate and Culcha).
In the example to the right, the letter 'p' has a descender; the other letters sit on the (red) baseline.
Apart from Cornell's own desire to inquire further into unconventional approaches to publishing, there was an additional motivator.
Their series have included: Hesperus Classics, Hesperus Nova, Hesperus Minor, Brief Lives, Poetic Lives, ON, Modern Voices, and Hesperus Worldwide.
DFB also works closely with The Phoenix, a weekly story comic for children which David Fickling founded.
The text was 10 point in size and put together in the form of a full page displayed on a high resolution cathode ray tube.
"A Cover to Cover Solution: How Open Textbooks are the Path to Textbook Affordability." Original research report by Nicole Allen of The Student PIRGs.
Hesperus Press has published some 300 works by both classic and contemporary authors, including: Dante, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Dickens, Dostoyevsky, Flaubert, Kafka, Tolstoy, Woolf, Annie Dillard, and Aldous Huxley.
ISBN 0-87546-190-5 External links ILCA Web site International Labor Communications Association records, at the University of Maryland libraries Gordon H.
Although some critics thought the project to be impracticable, Dom Eligius found support from the outset in Brepols Publishers from Turnhout.
Umineko-sou Days 2020s 2021 Senpai wa Otokonoko 2023 The Strange House Unsorted First Love Sisters Gestlat Strawberry Shake Sweet Voiceful Wild Adapter Yurihime Wildrose See also List of manga published by Kodansha List of works published by Kodansha == References ==
Each major publisher maintains a list of orthotypographic rules that they apply as part of their house style.
A prodromus ('forerunner' or 'precursor') aka prodrome is a term used in the natural sciences to describe a preliminary publication intended as the basis for a later, more comprehensive work.
Book rhymes were fairly common in the United States during the 18th and 19th centuries, but the printing of bookplates pushed them out of use.
On 12 June 2011, it was announced that Russian-Israeli businessman Leonid Nevzlin had purchased a 20% stake in the Haaretz Group, buying 15% from the family and 5% from M.
The council sponsors sessions at the MLA Convention on presenting its annual journal awards recognizing distinguished achievement for scholarly journals and for creative-writing journals.
There were about 300 contributors and 13000 subscribers to its regular updates, and over 500 recipes collected.
Under the Act: A government agency may not treat a person in an adverse manner solely because that person failed to follow administrative guidance (article 32.2).
In European and West Asian typography and penmanship, the baseline is the line upon which most letters sit and below which descenders extend.
Broadcast Encyclopédia was originally shown only on AB Sat, but is now available through a contract on French and Swiss cable networks, on the Nouveau Canalsat satellite package, and through AB Groupe, the channel is available on the major ADSL packages.
Internet Fragmentation: Preventing the division and fragmentation of the internet to maintain a unified global digital space.
London, NY, 1973 The Liberated page London, 1987 References Further reading Typographica, by Rick Poynor, Princeton Architectural Press, 2001.
Actually, he has worked out a plan to use the police protection as a means of helping a crooked financier to jump bail and get out of the country, and expects to be well paid for it.
Web 2.0 reading capabilities This category of approaches focuses on enhanced publication data models whose parts, metadata and relationships are defined with the purpose of improving the end-user experience when visualizing and discovering research materials.
The series was edited by Abraham Cohen and the commentary was written by several rabbis including Cohen himself, Eli Cashdan, Harry Freedman and Israel Wolf Slotki (identified as I.
Personal life In 1933, she married Kurt Wolff in London and their son, composer Christian Wolff, was born in 1934 in Nice.
In April 2000, DBpia, their web-based academic database that enables searching and reading of information in original texts began operations, in cooperation with Korea's largest bookseller, Kyobo Book Centre.
No popular Jewish translation with Soncino's intermediate approach, combining traditionalist outlook and exegesis with openness towards Christian and academic scholarship, has appeared since.
Classification Old-style Old-style typefaces date back to 1465, shortly after Johannes Gutenberg's adoption of the movable type printing press.
The Iraq Sun online newspaper is unrelated to a Dearborn Heights, Michigan conventional newspaper which began publishing in 2005 by Iraq Media Inc.
David Fickling Books Ltd (DFB) is a publishing company which was founded in 1999 and became an independent publishing house in July 2013 following 12 years (2001-2013) with Scholastic and later Random House.
Northern Brahmic scripts have a characteristic hanging baseline; the letters are aligned to the top of the writing line, marked by an overbar, with diacritics extending above the baseline.
The base layer lines gain the distance pm with as many lines (pm/pb) as the number of the revealing layer lines (pm/pr) for the same distance minus one: pm/pr = pm/pb + 1.
The ILCA and CALM/acps share the goal of increasing the effectiveness of labor media and promoting the objectives of the labor movement in both nations.
As for secrecy, formatted text document file formats tend to be proprietary and undocumented, leading to difficulty in coding compatibility by third parties, and also to unnecessary upgrades because of version changes.
United States In United States law, although administrative guidance is not generally binding on the public as a whole, it may serve as persuasive authority regarding the correct interpretation of the law.
The Visible Word (legibility studies at RCA), Royal College of Art, London, first édition in 1968, second edition in 1969.
The work was used by beginning students and laymen through the 1980s, although has largely been supplanted by the Schottenstein (ArtScroll) and Steinsaltz (Koren) translations.
Whereas the extent of formatting is accurately marked in markup languages, WYSIWYG formatting is based on memory, that is, keeping for example your pressing of the boldface button until cancelled.
Collaboration started in 1951 with the publication of a highly valued and essential tool, the Clavis Patrum Latinorum, which paved the way for the future success of the series, and later the Clavis Patrum Graecorum.
See also Bookbinding (includes detailed discussion of various book formats) Foolscap folio, paper size of 8.5×13.5 in (216×343 mm) commonly referred to as "folio" Octavo Quarto == References ==
He was replaced by Olivier Nora, previously head of Éditions Grasset & Fasquelle another division of the Hachette group.
Originally known as Conference of Editors of Learned Journals, it changed its name in 1989 to the current one.
As did their experience developing the digital imaging project, Project Euclid afforded Cornell University Library the opportunity to learn a great deal.
A line break that is inserted manually, and preserved when re-flowing, may still be distinct from a paragraph break, although this is typically not done in prose.
History Since 1991, preprints have increasingly been distributed electronically on the Internet, rather than as paper copies.
Typographical syntax, also known as orthotypography, is the aspect of typography that defines the meaning and rightful usage of typographic signs, notably punctuation marks, and elements of layout such as flush margins and indentation.
The company originally offered every textbook published free using online delivery under the open content paradigm, but in November 2012, the company announced that it would no longer offer free access to textbooks.
They remain popular in the printing of Greek, as the Didot family were among the first to establish a printing press in newly independent Greece.
Cuneiform had no paragraphs or even spacing between words with the symbols all written directly adjacent to one another.
Accordingly, both organizations hold fraternal associate membership status in the other, and both organizations have a seat on the other's executive council.
The publisher's motto, "Et Remotissima Prope," is a Latin phrase which means "Bringing near what is far".
Globally, the company has subscribers in eighty universities and institutions in twelve countries, with yearly increases.
Using the old method of the linotype machine, the cost of producing the book would be about four dollars at the time.
Fayard (French: [fajaʁ]; complete name: Librairie Arthème Fayard) is a French Paris-based publishing house established in 1857.
Surviving paper named Chattanooga Times Free Press, merged paper maintains separate editorial pages Cincinnati, Ohio—The Cincinnati Enquirer (owned by Gannett) publishing and The Cincinnati Post/Kentucky Post (owned by The E.W.
The project was designed to access a variety of outstanding collections of archives and manuscripts held at the three partner Higher Education Institutions (HEIs); the University of Edinburgh, University of Glasgow and Heriot-Watt University and to make them accessible on the Internet.
However, in 2015 the High Court ordered Hesperus to stop selling its edition of the book after it failed to pay royalties to the author for 3 years.
{\displaystyle {\frac {v_{m}}{v_{r}}}={\frac {p_{m}}{p_{r}}}.} By replacing pm with its formula, we have v m v r = p b p b − p r .
The arrangement of the pages of type in the press is referred to as the imposition and there are a number of methods of imposing pages for the various formats, some of which involve cutting the printed pages before binding.
He was editor of all the thirty-two issues published, in two series of sixteen issues each, from 1949 until it closed in 1967.
Development On 17 January 2023, the President of the UN General Assembly appointed Rwanda (and later replaced by Zambia) and Sweden as co-facilitators to lead the intergovernmental and private sector process on the Global Digital Compact.
Similarly, books made by printing eight pages of text on each side of a sheet, which was then folded three times to form gatherings of eight leaves or sixteen pages each, are called octavos.
History Clesh was launched January 2006 and subject to several upgrades during the year to extend functionality including; storyboard, podcasting, moderation, chat and a showreel.
Additionally, because the Soncino publications were generally released without copyright notices at a time when notices were mandatory for establishment of copyright, the works were generally considered as public domain.
They published a number of notable works including Boris Pasternak's Doctor Zhivago, Georges Simenon's novels, Umberto Eco's The Name of the Rose, Italo Calvino's Invisible Cities, and Anne Morrow Lindbergh's Gift From the Sea.
They are the only other publishing house to have ever won the Branford Boase Award three times, other than Chicken House’s Barry Cunningham.
Nicolas Steno's De solido intra solidum naturaliter contento dissertationis prodromus, one of the early treatises attempting to explain the occurrence of fossils in solid rock.
With S2O, IWA met its revenue target to open all its journals and saw an "unprecedented increase" in their usage.
One of the results of the release of Project Euclid was interest in the software used to produce it.
50.000) Mitteldeutsche Zeitung (circulation 2010: 230,028, ownership: 100%) Naumburger Tageblatt (circulation 2008: 14,450, ownership: 24.9%) Netzeitung (in German) See also Haaretz Bertelsmann Cologne Notes and references External links Media related to M.
Enhanced publications or enhanced ebooks are a form of electronic publishing for the dissemination and sharing of research outcomes, whose first formal definition can be tracked back to 2009.
If the publisher judges that an insufficient number of institutions participate in the S2O offering, content may remain (or return to being) limited to subscribers.
History In 2007, Flat World Knowledge was founded by Jeff Shelstad and Eric Frank in Nyack, New York.
Plot Anthony Bliss and his glamorous collaborator Corinne Lake use a chance event to develop a money-making scheme.
James' 1925 ghost story A Warning to the Curious: References Sources Leach, Maria; Fried, Jerome (1972).
Scripps Company) (expired in 2007 with cessation of paper printing of The Post and its conversion to a website only publication on December 31, 2007) Columbus, Ohio—Columbus Dispatch (family owned) publishing, and Columbus Citizen-Journal (owned by The E.
Mr Paparazzi selects Clesh as the platform to host its video offering and TrueTube does the same in 2008 by choosing to use Clesh to manage its video portal.
S2O was presented as “a practical approach for converting subscription journals to open access.” Operation The Subscribe to Open financial model for open access to peer-reviewed research is based on a mutual assurance contract.
Saiyuki Ibun Sora Kake Girl R Starry☆Sky~in Spring~ Comic Anthology Starry☆Sky~in Summer~ Comic Anthology Touhou Project ~ Grimoire of Marisa 2010s 2010 30-sai no Hoken Taiiku Bokura wa Minna Ikiteiru!
Creative Commons Talks With Student PIRGs’ Nicole Allen: "Open Education and Policy." October 14, 2010.
War on Geminar Touhou Project ~ Wild and Horned Hermit 2011 Danchigai Himegoto I Can't Understand What My Husband Is Saying Joker no Kuni no Alice: Circus to Usotsuki Game Little Busters!
Role Academic practices Publication of manuscripts in a peer-reviewed journal often takes weeks, months or even years from the time of initial submission, owing to the time required by editors and reviewers to evaluate and critique manuscripts, and the time required by authors to address critiques.
The main motivations behind enhanced publications are to be found in the limitations of traditional scientific literature to describe the whole context and outcome of a research activity.
Timecode export Each frame of professionally shot video is tagged with a timecode which identifies it.
Clesh supports storyboard shot selection, frame-accurate editing, transitions and various other functions such as; pan, zoom, colour and light correction, and audio levels.
In Western books, which are read by turning the pages over from right to left, when the book is begun with the open page edges at the reader's right, the first page to be seen is "folio 1 recto", typically abbreviated to "f1 r.".
The company has been run by the Neven du Mont family since 1805, when Marcus du Mont acquired the Kölnische Zeitung – then the business's main newspaper.
Their goal is to move "beyond the simple PDF" (FORCE11 initiative) and support scientists with advanced ICT tools for sharing their research more comprehensively, without losing the narrative spirit of "the publication" as dissemination means.
Following a proposal led by Arnott Wilson in 1999, the project received £261,755 funding from the Research Support Libraries Programme (RSLP) from 2000 until 2002.
History The company was established in the 1970s and was based in Chicago, Illinois until 2002, when it was acquired by a Los Angeles publishing executive, Jeffrey Stern, who had previously published Details magazine.
When the revealing layer is shifted up perpendicularly to the layer lines by one full period (pr) of its pattern, the superposition optical image must be the same as the initial one.
The group's digital platform is described as a network of eNewspapers - modeled on newspaper-type names and layout.
Because the actual format of many modern books cannot be determined from examination of the books, bibliographers may not use these terms in scholarly descriptions.
See also Electronic article List of preprint repositories List of academic journals by preprint policy Offprint Prepress ScientificCommons == References ==
During the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic, the need for published research on the disease spurred a wave of research articles being released as preprints, bypassing the peer-review and publication process, which was proving too slow in the context of an active and novel pandemic.
The size of a book is generally measured by the height against the width of a leaf, or sometimes the height and width of its cover.
For example, a regulation might require adequate testing for relevant microorganisms in sterile containers and a guidance document would be used to explain what testing is adequate and which organisms are relevant.
Reid distinguishes between electronic printing (the production of individual documents) and electronic publishing (the full process including dissemination).
Types of preprint servers The preprint servers can be grouped in three categories: general (accepting practically all preprints, frequently with bias towards some topic, publisher e.g.
The origin of the word is from the 19th century: via French from New Latin prodromus, from Greek prodromos, meaning forerunner.
Video can also be saved in MPEG, Ogg, HTML video, podcasting formats as well as Blackbird's proprietary player.
Clesh (clip load edit share) is a cloud-based video editing platform, created by Forbidden Technologies plc, designed for the consumers, prosumers, and online communities to integrate user-generated content.
Iraq Sun is administered by global media group Midwest Radio Network, which is headquartered in Sydney, Australia with offices in the United Arab Emirates.
Nonetheless, they tended to have some input from Christian and modern academic scholarship and tended not to treat rabbinical Midrash and Aggadah as fact.
Under S2O, libraries help to create a public good that is universally open to both readers and authors, through subscriptions.
(archive.org snapshot) USENET cookbook archives at an ftp.digital.com mirror (original gone) alt.gourmand archives at Google Groups
A book rhyme is a short poem or rhyme that was formerly printed inside the front of a book or on the flyleaf to discourage theft (similar to a book curse) or to indicate ownership.
As a result, it became nearly impossible to determine the actual format (i.e., number of leaves formed from each sheet fed into a press).
Domed labels are printed pressure-sensitive labels that have a thick, dome-shaped clear polyurethane coating.
A list of works published by Ichijinsha, included titles from its predecessors, DNA Media Comics and Issaisha, lists by release date.
Now defunct, the former newspaper was a 24-page bi-weekly free newspaper, supported solely by advertising.
In the following years they added software, database and business certificates and in 2015 were listed as a supported content provider (DBpia only) of a subscription monitoring service, along with other major companies; and had mobile apps for their products.
Origins and etymology Serifs originated from the first official Greek writings on stone and in Latin alphabet with inscriptional lettering—words carved into stone in Roman antiquity.
Though not required by the orthographic conventions of any language with a writing system, paragraphs are a conventional means of organizing extended segments of prose.
The online site's slogan is “the voice of the Iraqi Nation.” The main topic is Iraq, with a particular focus on events in Baghdad and other major cities, as well as international news and coverage of other topics including Muslim news.
SDI support allows Blackbird to ingest source material in both Standard Definition (SD) and High Definition (HD) resolutions from any professional video source in real time.
Technology The publisher notes on the last page that this book was the first book printed involving the technology of electronic type composed by an electron beam.
Serif typefaces can be broadly classified into one of four subgroups: Old-style, Transitional, Didone, and Slab serif, in order of first emergence.
All lining figures sit on the baseline: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 Some text figures have descenders: 3, 4, 5, 7 and 9 The following lowercase letters have descenders: g j p q y.
Its user interface utilizes XML (Extensible Markup Language) and XSLT (eXtensible Style Sheet Language Transformations), which enable adjustment for the design of web appearance for publications supported by DPubS.
In 1966 he became a senior research fellow in the print research department of the Royal College of Art; he was a professor of graphic arts there from 1978 until 1985.
Initially focused upon republishing mathematics titles, this effort expanded to include projects in agricultural history, home economics and American studies.
In December 2009, Hachette Littérature (publisher of the Pluriel pocket collection) was absorbed by Fayard.
The Pantheon imprint where she worked was sold to a Parisian company, and Wolff went there as part of the deal.
In fiction In fiction writing, authors are generally expected to give credit to those who contributed significantly to a work.
The Chattanooga Times and the Chattanooga News-Free Press's joint operating agreement became the first to be terminated on August 27, 1966.
Harper San Francisco changed its name to HarperOne in 2007, and expanded its core book categories beyond religion and spirituality to include health and wellness and inspirational non-fiction.
It is a nonpartisan, non-profit organization which provides resources, expertise and networking opportunities for labor communicators.
It was a time when the quality and quantity of their digital content experienced rapid growth; initially providing full text in PDF, and by 2006, their databases were offering multimedia functions such as sound, graphics and video.
Citrus Plus Comic Love Kome ~The Rice Plant or the Seed~ Eve to Eve I Married My Best Friend To Shut My Parents Up Inugami-san to Nekoyama-san Masamune-kun no Revenge After School Musanso Renai Oya ga Urusai Node ...
His intention was to produce in a short timespan a "Corpus Christianorum", comprising new editions of the writings of Christian authors from Tertullian through to the Venerable Bede.
Budget Encyclopédia is owned by AB Sat SA and has a budget of €24 million, provided 100% by AB Group.
While some of those conventions have ease of understanding as a justification – for instance, specifying that low punctuation (commas, full stops, and ellipses) must be in the same typeface, weight, and style as the preceding text – many are probably arbitrary.
Numbering Paragraphs are commonly numbered using the decimal system, where (in books) the integral part of the decimal represents the number of the chapter and the fractional parts are arranged in each chapter in order of magnitude.
Verbal administrative guidance must be followed by a summary in writing if the counterparty demands it (article 35.2).
The Pantheon line became an imprint of Random House and in 1961 they established the A Helen and Kurt Wolff Book imprint at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.
Sambrook's Taproom, housed on the Ram Quarter site, serves the brewery's core and seasonal beers alongside Neapolitan pizza and other food, and hosts events such as live music, sports screenings and beer festivals.
The Belgian beer is brewed and canned for NV Copimex (since 2013 absorbed by FINCO (0429.127.109), which has subsequently been absorbed by Colruyt Group (0400.378.485) in 2023 after a group restructuring), and is sold in the Colruyt discount supermarket chain, as well as many other stores.
Gweilo Beer became Hong Kong's largest craft-beer brewery in 2018 after opening a factory in Fo Tan.
Founded in 1997, it produces four varieties of beer: Cameron's Cream Ale, Cameron's Auburn Ale, Cameron's Lager, and Cameron's RPA (Rye Pale Ale).
See also Beer portal Companies portal Colorado portal References Further reading Beer in Review: Dave Thibodeau of Ska Brewing.
as Guillaume Herregosse or Guillaume Hergosse and Maximilian Herregouts about whom currently nothing much is known other than two works, one entitled Kitchen, in which a woman is busy baking pancakes (1674) and a second entitled Eliezer and Rebecca at the well.
Over the last decade there has been a resurgence of interest in farmhouse style brewing, partly driven by interest in the unique brewing methods and ingredients still in use.
These may be a separate section of a supermarket or an individual shop – major retail corporations usually have their own bottle shop franchises located close to their supermarket operations.
The beers can be found in a few restaurants and be bought through the order segment at Systembolaget (Västra Götaland County only).
References External links Homepage of Brasserie de Silly Main source of Silly Beer Brasserie de Silly (in English) Brewery details from BeerTourism.com
Owner and brewmaster Philip DiFonzo gained input from over 200 bars, pubs, taverns, and restaurants before launching in July 2002 with a single Czech-style Bohemian Pilsner.
It is the second largest beer producer in the country with an annual production capacity of 250,000 hl, covering roughly 15–18% of the domestic market.
He also produced a number of portraits although there are some doubts about the authorship of some of the portraits attributed to him.
The difficulty in reproducing elsewhere the taste of the beers has led to the premier beer being jocularly referred to as "Ruddles Counterfeit".
The product's name refers to the steppe bison – a mammal from the Pleistocene period, related to today's European bison.
It is a very light (around 4.1-4.3% alcohol), refreshing lager at a fraction of the cost of draft or bottled beer in the Western-style bars.
List of beers Wandle Ale Junction Ale Powerhouse Porter Pumphouse Pale Ale Lavender Hill Russian Imperial Stout Session Pale Ale Pagoda Pilsner Block Party IPA Stand Easy Non alcoholic Pale Ale See also Beer in England References External links Official website
An iodophor is a preparation containing iodine complexed with a solubilizing agent, such as a surfactant or water-soluble polymers such as povidone (forming povidone-iodine), The result is a water-soluble material that releases free iodine when in solution.
Etymology varies across Canada; regional terms used in addition to 'liquor store' include 'off-sale' in the Prairie Provinces.
In 2021, the cookbook "Koken met CaraPils" (Dutch: "Cooking with CaraPils") was published by a student in collaboration with Colruyt.
It is used in wine making, airtight stored grain (preventing Aspergillus flavus aflatoxins), apples, and grapevines.
Wickerhamomyces anomalus is a species of ascomycete and teleomorphic fungi of the genus Wickerhamomyces.
Description The first product of the Brasseries de Bourbon, and by far now their most sold and widely known, is the blonde lager Bourbon, known popularly as Dodo, named after the now extinct bird of Mauritius.
Bali Hai Brewery Indonesia's head office is located in Jalan Laksamana RE Martadinata, Ruko Permata Ancol Blok F No.6 North Jakarta 14420, Indonesia.
Seasonal beers include Mai Bock Spring Lager in spring, Fest Harvest Lager in fall, and Doppel Bock Ulimator in winter.
Born at Muthill, Perthshire, he was the eldest son of Dr William Dow (1765–1844), Brewmaster, and Anne Mason.
He discovered that coloration was a good index for assessing the quality of beer, and sought an accurate way of gauging colour.
The Nadars were schismatic about their position in the caste hierarchy and firmly claimed that they were wrongly placed in the caste system due to the Nayak invasion.
They are supposed to have migrated to the Pandyan country from the banks of the Cauvery River in Tanjore to serve the Pandyan kings as their flag bearers.
It is one of Belgium's cheapest beers, the history of the price can be found here: in 2016 a 33 cl can sells for €0.32.
Its logo of a smiling dodo and the creole slogan la dodo lé la (the dodo is here) are found painted on the walls of establishments selling the beer.
History In 1880 the Metz Brewery was located at 1717 South 3rd Street, and was producing 12,400 barrels (390,600 gallons) per year.
The contents are either cross docked for outbound long haul carriage or the container is drayed to the receiver who unloads it.
Awards Management In 2020 Jason Britton and Clint Israel oversaw renovations to the company's management and facilities.
Fermenting Fermentation takes place in fermentation vessels which come in various forms, from enormous cylindroconical vessels, through open stone vessels, to wooden vats.
That same year, the company broke the Guinness World Records of the longest picnic table (322.42 metres) in a move to promote its Dodo beer.
It consists of a large rectangular container about 50 meters in length, and a set of vertical screws attached to a crossbar.
They also produce Betsy for Cathay Pacific, which is exclusively served aboard long-haul flights and in the Cathay lounges at Hong Kong International Airport.
The glass should be large enough to capture the aroma of the beer when it is twisted around on the bottom of the glass.
Formerly brewed by Alken-Maes, it then was brewed until 2017 in France by Brasserie de Saint-Omer, in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region, before being brewed again in Belgium.
It was established in 1985 and was one of the first North American breweries to revive the ancient technique of brewing cask-conditioned cask ale.
The taproom and visitor centre opened to the public in 2021, on the brewery's fifteenth anniversary.
As of 1919 he had belonged to the Beer Drivers Union Local #72 for 27 years, and for four years had been secretary and business agent for the Beer Drivers, Chauffeurs and Stablemen's Union Local 72, for Engineers' and Firemen's Union Local 25, and for Maltsters Union Local 89.
Life Jan Baptist Herregouts was likely born in Roermond (or possibly in Dendermonde) between 1635 and 1645 as the son of David Herregouts and Cecilia Genits or Geniets.
Mickey's is a brand of malt liquor made by the Miller Brewing Company, a subsidiary of Molson Coors.
The Herrenhäuser Brewery (Herrenhäuser Brauerei) was founded in 1868 in the Herrenhausen district of Hannover, Germany.
In mainstream brewing the variety has largely been supplanted by newer varieties with better agronomics, but it's still in high demand for premium products.
It was a pioneer of lager in microbrewing, following the strict requirements of the German Reinheitsgebot, and it continues to specialize in craft lagers.
Products Beer varieties include Tricerahops Double IPA, Dawn of the Red IPA, Believer Double Red, and Oatis Oatmeal Stout.
Beers are often tasted in an order from lightest to heaviest, driest to sweetest and cheapest to most expensive.
Having gained an extensive experience in brewing under his father, he emigrated from the UK to Montreal, Lower Canada in about 1818.
In the fall of 2020, it was announced that Heineken Tarwebok was removed from the Heineken portfolio.
"Ninkasi expansion fourth since 2006, will triple capacity" Archived 2014-02-02 at the Wayback Machine.
Some tasting menus will focus on themes: for example, different types of beer such as stout, wheat beer or India pale ale, different countries such as Belgian beers or American pale ales, or different pairings of food with the tasting, such as a tasting of beers and cheeses.
Summary Belgian beer Alcohol: 4.4% ABV Available in 33 cl cans, 50 cl cans, and 25 cl bottles Exists in a non-alcoholic version (Cara Pils NA) External links Cara Pils on BeerPal.com == References ==
Heineken Tarwebok (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈɦɛinəkə(n) ˈtɑrʋəˌbɔk]; English: Heineken Wheat Bock) was a bock beer produced by the Dutch brewing company Heineken.
Ninsaki merged with Legacy Breweries in April 2019, but dissolved the partnership a year later through a separation agreement.
According to one source, "Skagit Valley malts are naturally lower in protein than those from other North American growing regions".
CZ.2.16/3.1.00/28030 of the Operational Program Prague - Competitiveness The Sensory Research Centre consists of two laboratories: sensory and analytical.
Periolat brewery was among the companies that adopted refrigeration technology in order to improve its brewing capabilities.
The Farmhouse ale is an ancient European tradition whereby farmers would produce beer for their own consumption using their own grain.
At some point Mickey's began to sponsor the Ultimate Fighting Championship, using the phrase, "Get Stung", and has featured several UFC fighters on 24 ounce cans.
In situations where the matter went to court, the Sangam would not provide financial support for the Nadar claimant to contest the case, but would rather see that the claim is properly heard.
Depending on how the tasting is designed, it can be a way to learn more about the history, ingredients and production of beer as well as different beer styles, hops, yeast and beer presentation.
Maris Otter is a two-row, autumn sown variety of barley commonly used in the production of malt for the brewing industry.
Nadars claim that the original name of the community was Shantror or Shandrar (noble one) which, in course of time, was corrupted to Shanar.
Scott; Food Processing: Principles and Applications, Wiley-Blackwell, 2004, ISBN 978-0-8138-1942-6 Andrew G.H.
The North Fork Brewery, is a pizzeria, brewery, and wedding chapel, which is located on the way to Mount Baker on State Route 542 in Deming, Washington.
Combined with mechanical air flow across the barley for cooling, this allows for beds of barley between 60 cm (24 in) and 80 cm (31 in) deep to be turned over two or three times a day.
Their brews include: Rooster Tail Ale (golden ale) Monkey Face Porter (porter) Angus MacDougals (Scottish ale) I.P.A.
There are sources placed the establishment of the brewery in 1898, attributing its foundation to Henry Periolat.
Some important species include: Kluyveromyces lactis Kluyveromyces marxianus Kluyveromyces thermotolerans See also Yeast in winemaking == References ==
Early brewing equipment included three cooling vaults, two of which were 20 feet wide by 75 feet long; and one smaller vault, being 20 feet wide by 30 feet long.
The brewery was said to have "no equal in the country." The Metz brothers also ran the Metz Brothers Beer Hall, located on 510 South Tenth Street.
As one of the main proprietors of the regularly held Wertachbruckerthorfest, Thorbräu is clearly committed to an Augsburg tradition that has never faltered, and is still in operation currently.
The Wellington beers are brewed in small batches with natural ingredients and use no cold filtration, natural carbonation, no pasteurization, and secondary fermentation in casks.
Bret started selling homebrewing supplies from the hardware store and soon it became more profitable than selling hardware.
As of 2018, Sudwerk has won a total of 13 medals at the Great American Beer Festival including three gold medals.
When the yeast is added to the wort, the fermenting process begins, where the sugars turn into alcohol, carbon dioxide and other components.
Beers The company produces One Lager, a popular lager, Lion Stout, and non-alcoholic malt beverages.
The wort is cooled in open vats (called "coolships"), where the yeasts and microbiota present in the brewery (such as Brettanomyces) are allowed to settle to create a spontaneous fermentation, and are then conditioned or matured in oak barrels for typically one to three years.
He also sponsored new physics and botany buildings in Trinity College Dublin in 1903, and part-funded the students' residence at Trinity Hall, Dartry, in 1908.
ports as the term for over-the-road highway truck drivers who deliver containers to and from the port.
The brewery operates two locations throughout Central Oregon, the newest in SE Bend in July 2023; the West side location was closed in January 2024.
Nowadays, it is one of the most popular beers in Hong Kong with a market share of 20% in Hong Kong's beer industry.
The brewery operated continuously under the management of the Periolat family until 1905, when it was sold by Robert and Henry Periolat.
A drayman was historically the driver of a dray, a low, flat-bed wagon without sides, pulled generally by horses or mules that were used to transport all kinds of goods.
In the first half of the 1990s, the whole service company was privatized to a joint-stock company, which in 1994 was again renamed to the Research Institute of Brewing and Malting (RIBM).
Washington State University operates the Mount Vernon Research Center which has developed new barley varieties suitable for the local climate and soil.
It is thought that bappir was seldom baked with the intent of being eaten; its storage qualities made it a good candidate for an emergency ration in times of scarcity, but its primary use seems to have been beer-making.
dextrin forming cadexomer iodine), chitosan and cellulose have also been used as solubilizing agents.
An art historian has argued that his self-portrait and the portrait of his father (both in the Groeningemuseum) that are usually attributed to him are possibly the work of his brother Hendrik.
After originally opening as the McCumbe Brewery, the facility was sold several times until brothers Frederick and Philip Metz purchased it in 1861.
It was introduced in 1966 and quickly became a dominant variety in the 1970s due to its low nitrogen and superior malting characteristics.
It was formerly known as Dojlidy, the name of the brewery in the Białystok district of Dojlidy, where it is produced.
Smoke cigarettes and drink my Mickey’s Fine Malt Liquor Brew” References External links Historic Evansville - Sterling Brewery Miller Brewing Company Mickeys.com
Iodophors are prepared by mixing iodine with the solubilizing agent; heat can be used to speed up the reaction.
See also Ninkasi, the Sumerian goddess of beer Biscotti, a similarly twice-baked modern bread that is often eaten as a sweet course with wine or coffee == References ==
Varieties Many countries have their own variant of farmhouse-style beers: Norway: Several styles collectively known as maltøl Belgium: Saison and Grisette Finland: Sahti, Kotikalja France: Bière de Garde Sweden: Gotlandsdricka Denmark: landøl.
Bauer (October 4, 1862 – December 28, 1922) was an American brewery worker and beer truck driver from Milwaukee, Wisconsin who served one term as a Socialist member of the Wisconsin State Assembly.
The more than 400-year-old brewery is located on the edge of Augsburg's old town at Wertachbrucker Tor.
The genus name of Kluyveromyces is in honour of Albert Jan Kluyver ForMemRS (1888-1956), who was a Dutch microbiologist and biochemist.
Spent grains can also be used as fertiliser, whole grains in bread, as well as in the production of flour and biogas.
Business In 1885 he founded a company, The Tintometer Limited, to manufacture his colorimeter which was called the Lovibond Comparator.
A modern innovation is the so-called 'Round Square' pioneered by the Black Sheep brewery, which is built from stainless steel.
The waters of Burton in England contain gypsum, which benefits making pale ale to such a degree that brewers of pale ales will add gypsum to the local water in a process known as Burtonisation.
Brewing is done in a brewery by a brewer, and the brewing industry is part of most western economies.
William Dow (March 27, 1800 – December 7, 1868) was a British-born brewer and financier of Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
In the 2016 Ontario Brewing Awards, for example, Wellington's Imperial Russian Stout earned a gold medal, County Dark Ale received a gold medal, Iron Duke won a bronze, and Arkell Best Bitter earned a silver.
Marketing It is available throughout Poland, and is also available in many off-licences in the UK and Ireland, due to demand for the beer from the Polish population in these countries.
Art collector Interested in fine art all his life, from the 1870s Guinness amassed a distinguished collection of Old Master paintings, antique furniture and historic textiles.
The brewery uses converted equipment, the lauter tun was a peanut butter hopper from Quaker Oats cereal, the mash/boil kettle was a yeast starter for a sour dough bread company, their pilot system's kettle was a 100-gallon coffee maker.
The brand was created by Sterling Brewery in Evansville, Indiana, which brewed it from 1962 through 1972, when the company was purchased by the G.
Morlands moved production to Abingdon only for that site to be closed by Greene King which took over Morlands in 2000.
In 2011, the company launched an advertising campaign to fight the competition of imported Coca-Cola from African and Asian manufacturers which cannibalized the Brasseries' Coca-Cola sales.
In the 1980s Maris Otter usage began to decline for a number of reasons, including: compromised genetic purity caused by cross pollination and improved competition from other varieties.
Gweilo Beer's recipes were created for the Hong Kong market, and both beers are English-style session beers with 4.5% and 4.8% ABV, respectively.
Business Lord Iveagh was managing director of the Guinness partnership and company, from his father's death in 1868 until 1889, running the largest brewery in the world - it spanned 64 acres (26 ha).
In the small-batch category (brewed in collaboration with another company), Wellington gained awards for the Welly One-Off Series, A Spice Odyssey and Farmers' Market Rhubarb Saison.
Ska Brewing Company is a brewery founded in 1995 by Bill Graham and Dave Thibodeau in Durango, Colorado, United States.
Bappir was a Sumerian twice-baked barley bread that was primarily used in ancient Mesopotamian beer brewing.
For brewing, the local hop variety "Spalter Aromahopfen" is used, which is the town's most important trade good.
The project included a new brewhouse, taproom, visitor centre and brewery museum on a site where commercial brewing had taken place for several centuries.
The beer is brewed daily, then matured for a short period and once ready each bar gets a fresh batch delivered every day in steel barrels.
It is used as a preventive (biocontrol agent) for undesirable fungi or mold, nevertheless it may spoil food in large quantities.
Products The brewery produces two kinds of cider: Ahlafors Päroncider (pear cider) and Ahlafors Flädercider (elder cider).
The optimum concentration is >200 mg/L free iodine with a contact time of 2 minutes and 100 mg/L free iodine for cleaned and dried equipment.
Products The company brews the following different varieties of beer: Gallery See also Beer in the Czech Republic References External links Radegast Birell official pages (Czech)
The King Brewery Pilsner has won a gold medal at the Canadian Brewing Awards, in the class "European Style Lager (Pilsner)", as well as the 2004 Toronto Star Beer of the Year.
The Kuhnhenn Brewing Company is a small microbrewery, winery and meadery in Warren, Michigan, United States.
The crossbar moves horizontally across the length of the container while the motion of the screws raises the barley from the bottom to the top.
Heileman was acquired by the Stroh Brewery Company who then sold the brand to Miller during their 1999 closure.
King Brewery's 20 hectolitre brewhouse with a steam-fired kettle was one of very few authentic Decoction Brew houses in Canada.
Metz was one of the "Big 4" brewers located in Omaha, which also included the Krug, Willow Springs and Storz breweries.
Jay Prahl was hired as brewmaster in 2003, and Broward and Unger sold off the associated restaurant in 2006.
The brewery itself is only a roughly thirty minute travel time to Munich, for the annual Oktoberfest.
The company lost its independence in 1986 and passed into the ownership of Watneys, and then Grolsch in 1992.
History Named after the Sumerian goddess of beer, Ninkasi was founded in 2006 by Jamie Floyd and Nikos Ridge.
Traditionally, this craft beer was sold in bottles, but recently, the company has increased the use of cans to meet the growing public demand for this type of beer container.
Hops Hops are the female flower clusters or seed cones of the hop vine Humulus lupulus, which are used as a flavouring and preservative agent in nearly all beer made today.
Features Wickerhamomyces anomalus has high osmotolerance and ferments sucrose, and assimilates raffinose.
Goose Island's Bourbon County Stout was one of the first bourbon barrel-aged beers in the U.S., but the method has now spread to other companies, who have also experimented with aging other styles of beer in bourbon barrels.
Joseph Williams Lovibond (17 November 1833 – 21 April 1918) was a British brewer who developed the world's first practical colorimeter as a means of ensuring the high quality of his beer.
In the United Kingdom, the "off-licence" status of a shop could once be used as a device to circumvent restrictive trading laws, particularly those concerning Sunday trading.
It seems to have been drunk flat without bottling or conditioning with a straw in the manner that yerba mate is drunk now.
External links Biography at the Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online William Dow House, Montreal Business and History - Dow Brewery Limited Archived 2014-02-21 at the Wayback Machine
Currently the beer and its variants are sold in more than 20 countries, including Singapore, Myanmar, Korea, New Zealand, to Far East Russia.
Farms in the Skagit Valley area have produced barley on a small scale since the 1890s or earlier, and some are in the fourth generation of ownership by the same family.
This popular method of brewing in Germany is rare in Canada as it takes longer and is a more expensive brewing process.
Stemming from the name for the beer is the slogan: "Život je hořký: Bohudík", a Czech phrase which translates into English as "Life is bitter: Thank God" (in reference to the beer's "bitter" taste).
See also Beer in the United States Brewing in Oregon References McKenzie, Madeline (June 15, 2008) "Bend's brew pubs cure what ales you." The Seattle Times.
Publications Notes and references External links Works by Joseph Williams Lovibond at Project Gutenberg Tintometer Ltd
Origins The company was originally established under the name Brauerei Wölfler & Wedekind Herrenhausen.
Beers Ruddles County Ruddles Best Ruddles Organic Ruddles Rhubarb In popular culture Being regarded as one of England's cheapest beers, it is used as a reference in the HBO series Veep.
(India pale ale) Pine Marten Pale Ale 20" Brown (brown ale) Blonde Bombshell The brewery also produces several seasonal beers.
History Farmers have been brewing beer from their own grain since long before the beginning of recorded history.
Iveagh helped finance the British Antarctic Expedition (1907–09), and Mount Iveagh, a mountain in the Supporters Range in Antarctica, is named for him.
Craft malting, also called micro-malting, is an agricultural practice of creating malting barley in relatively small quantities for craft beer.
Examples of clarifying agents include isinglass, obtained from swim bladders of fish; Irish moss, a seaweed; kappa carrageenan, from the seaweed kappaphycus; polyclar (a commercial brand of clarifier); and gelatin.
Hatch leads regular tours that combine tutored tastings with visits to the heritage centre, where displays highlight the Ram Brewery's history and its role in London's beer culture.
The Brasseries de Bourbon ("Breweries of Bourbon") is the only major producer of beer on Réunion Island, formerly known as Bourbon Island, a French overseas department in the Indian Ocean.
Beer is produced through steeping a sugar source (commonly Malted cereal grains) in water and then fermenting with yeast.
ethyl acetate from glucose under oxygen limitation, also other small volatiles, e.g., ethyl propanoate, phenyl ethanol, and 2-phenylethyl acetate.
In 1996, Rutland bitter was the third of British beers to have achieved Protected Geographical Indication status; this followed an application by Grolsch Ruddles.
3 in Oregon beer sales - Portland Business Journal Beer and Community: Ninkasi Isn't Just a Brewery - Eugene Daily News | Eugene Daily News External links Official website Ninkasi Brewing Company Collection, 2012-2014 Ninkasi Brewing of Eugene, Oregon.
Mating and sporulation in Kluyveromyces are co-induced by poor environments and most often occur in succession without intervening diploid mitotic cell divisions.
A satellite brewery (larger than the original, and with increased bottling capacity) has opened at 36000 Groesbeck Highway Clinton Township, Michigan 48035.
He became a member of the Antwerp Guild of Saint Luke between 18 September 1667 and 17 September 1677.
However it is common for professional organisations such as the Wine & Spirit Education Trust to rate beer with verbal grades: faulty - poor - acceptable - good - very good - outstanding, corresponding to a scale from 1 to 5.
Equipment to be sanitized should be thoroughly clean and left in contact with the solution for at least 2 minutes.
It was the first brewpub in Davis, and the only one there until the 2015 opening of another brewpub, the Three Mile Brewing Company.
They are sometimes known as "Off Sales", meaning purchase for off-premises consumption, similar to "Off-licence" in the UK.
Furthermore, while a whirlpool is useful only for the removal of pelleted hops (as flowers do not tend to separate as easily), in general hopbacks are used only for the removal of whole flower hops (as the particles left by pellets tend to make it through the hopback).
Dow was also a financier and in 1860 he built his home, Strathearn House, in Montreal's Golden Square Mile.
Within this research area the Institute closely cooperates with the Central Institute for Supervising and Testing in Agriculture in Brno.
The Bali Hai brands and variants includes Bali Hai Premium, Draft Beer, El Diablo Original, Panther Black, El Diablo Strong Brew, Knox and Folsom.
By the late-1980s the variety had become unpopular with large breweries and it was removed from the UK National List in 1989.
History Herrenhäuser introduced the first kosher pilsener beer to the European market called Herrenhäuser Kosher.
Government classification Nadars are classified and listed as a Backward Class by the governments of both Tamil Nadu and India.
The Brno workplace (7 Mostecká) houses the Analytical Testing Laboratory of the Malting Institute Brno; the Analytical Testing Laboratory of the Brewing Institute Prague is part of the Prague workplace (15 Lípová).
North America United States The Twenty-first Amendment of the United States Constitution allows states to regulate the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
The Stadtbrauerei Spalt (Spalt City Brewery in German) is a brewery in the Middle Franconian town of Spalt which was created in the year 1879 through the merger of numerous smaller breweries.
This connection is not well-documented, however, and it is unclear how close these commercially-brewed offerings are to the farmhouse-brewed originals.
People connected with the RIBM Directors Antonín Kukla 1888–1896 František Chodounský 1896–1905 Vladimír Čihák 1905–1931 Alois Stádník 1931–1932 (temporarily authorized) Jan Šatava 1932–1938 Václav Kurz 1938 (authorized) R.
Ingredients The basic ingredients of beer are water; a starch source, such as malted barley, able to be fermented (converted into alcohol); a brewer's yeast to produce the fermentation; and a flavouring, such as hops, to offset the sweetness of the malt.
In addition to brewing IPAs, barleywines, and other ales in their relatively small 3.5 barrel brewing system, the North Fork serves pizza, houses a diverse collection of beer-related objects, and performs marriage ceremonies.
Their beer is brewed in a specific standard that is not a part of the Reinheitsgebot, but of Augsburg's own beer purity laws that have been set since 1516, explaining that no version of beer can be brewed using inferior ingredients resulting in an inferior beer.
There are some breweries still delivering daily/weekly using horses, Hook Norton in Oxfordshire and Samuel Smith's in Tadcaster being two of them.
King Brewery was purchased in 2015 by Thornbury Beverages Company (now Thornbury Village Craft Cider & Beer).
The venue used a canning device from Italy that cost US$1.2 million and had an hourly manufacturing capacity of 6,000 cans.
Sporting interests On land, Iveagh's favourite hobby was to drive a coach-and-four (horses), a very physical activity, occasionally driving from Dublin to the Punchestown Racecourse about 20 miles away, and back.
In March 2020, after half a decade of planning, Ska Street Brewstillery opened in Boulder, Colorado.
See also Consolidated Breweries Guinness Nigeria List of beer and breweries in Nigeria Nigerian Breweries References External links Mopa Breweries
Prażubr, Bizon and Prabizon In April 2016, Kompania Piwowarska launched another special beer on the market.
Biography After accidentally losing his earnings from gold mining as a teenager, Lovibond went to work in his family's brewery.
The business was established in 1998, but did not open its doors until 2001, by owners and brewers, the brothers Bret and Eric Kuhnhenn.
While this lower quality is, in the modern day, deliberate, it has its origins in the 1970s, when the first of these glasses were made rapidly with low-cost materials.
Punch Almanac (June 24, 1908) published a cartoon, making fun of a social distinction between omnibus drivers and brewery draymen, as one of two cartoons ridiculing city transport.
Burtonisation Burtonisation is the act of adding sulphate, often in the form of gypsum, to the water used for the brewing of beer, to bring out the flavour of the hops.
Other early craft malting operations began in 2010 in New England; North Carolina in 2011; and Michigan and West Virginia prior to 2013.
There are two kings called Alf in Mellmark mythology: Alf son of Sigar, a king in Norse mythology Alf son of Alaric, a Swedish king of the House of Yngling In some cases, Alf may also be derived from Alfons, which does not contain the "elf" element, but is derived from adal-fons "noble-ready".
He was considered as the most prominent Croatian onomastician (since the second half of the 20th century), and contributed also in the field of dialectology (particularly about Chakavian dialect).
Names derived from theodisc (vernacular) Dutch, Diets and Duyts English is one of the only languages to use the adjective Dutch for the language of the Netherlands and Flanders.
Other variants of the name include Ramose and Paramessu; these various spellings could be used to refer to the same person.
In English, a word is often clipped down to a closed monosyllable and then suffixed with ‑y or ‑ie (phonologically ).
Doreen (UK: DOR-een, US: dor-EEN), also occasionally spelt Dorean or Dorine, is a feminine given name, usually found in English-speaking countries.
The 2006 American film Flicka and its two sequels were loosely based on the previous books and films.
Metonymic surnames, on the other hand, denoted a person's profession, and include Pease, for a seller of peas, and Onions, for a seller of onions (though some people with that surname got it from the Old Welsh name Enniaum).
Gay (1894–1983), US Army lieutenant general Hap Hadley (1895–1976), American artist specializing in pen and ink representations Hap Holmes (1892–1941), Canadian NHL goaltender Emil Huhn (1892–1925), American MLB player B.
Hunter "Hap" Aloysius Percy, the antagonist in The OA, played by Jason Isaacs See also All pages with titles beginning with Hap All pages with titles containing Hap Happy (nickname) Haps (disambiguation) HAP (disambiguation)
Westlake May, a character from the 1988 movie 14 Going on 30 May, localize version of Mii, main character in Jungle de Ikou!
Tolkien Patronymic Sophas, son of Raguel (1st century), 'of royal lineage', executed during the Jewish Revolt by John, son of Dorcas Landmark houses Capt.
The name also remains in regular use in other countries, including France, Germany, Hungary, Denmark, and Sweden.
(Hebrew: יְדִידְיָה, romanized: Yəḏīḏyāh) is both a given name and a surname, the original Hebrew of Jedediah.
Shot pellet diameters 0, 00, and 000 are pronounced "single aught", "double aught", and "triple aught".
and as a political term to distinguish people from Bosnia proper from people from other lands acquired in the hidays of Kingdom of Bosnia and included into royal titulage.
Representative from Ohio Bob Shiller (born 1946), American economist Bob Skelly (1943–2022), Leader of the Opposition of British Columbia Bob Smith (American politician) (born 1941), former U.S.
It is also the shortened form of various Spanish names with álf as their first part, notably Alfred, Álvaro, or more directly from Ataulf (English: Adolph).
In the cyberpunk genre following Vernor Vinge's 1981 True Names and the work of William Gibson, much of the plot involved interactions between people's virtual selves in cyberspace.
A number of scholars have offered explanations for the rarity of references to the New Testament in the Onomasticon.
This then led to Laozi's denunciation in the Daodejing as Hui Shi began researching paradoxes of language.
The origins of its frequency can be attributed to Saint Martin of Tours, who was the most popular French saint, but the reason is not clear.
Berry (born 1965), American diplomat Randy Best, American entrepreneur Randy Bettis (born 1959), American disc jockey Randy Beverly (born 1944), American football player Randy Beverly Jr.
Augie (sometimes spelled Auggie) is a nickname for variations of the name Augustus, which is derived from Latin.
May, in the show Sid the Science Kid May Kanker, youngest of the Kanker sisters in the animated series Ed, Edd n Eddy May Kasahara, in Haruki Murakami's novel The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle May Lee (The King of Fighters), in The King of Fighters fighting game series Melinda May, a S.H.I.E.L.D.
Gussie is occasionally a given name in its own right, but is much more frequently a shortened version (hypocorism) of Chreigusta, Augustus, Augusta, Gustave, Gustavo, August, Augustine, Augusten, Augustina, Angus, Fergus, Argus, Gusten, Gus, and others.
Randy, a character on the American comedy children's television series Pee-wee's Playhouse Randy, a character in the Adventure Time episode "Ring of Fire" Randy Bobandy, in the Canadian television series Trailer Park Boys Randall "Randy" Boggs, an antagonist in the Monsters, Inc.
Origins and usage Etymologically, the term hypocorism is from Ancient Greek ὑποκόρισμα (hypokórisma), from ὑποκορίζεσθαι (hypokorízesthai), meaning 'to call by endearing names'.
The name (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) occurs in the Hebrew Bible, not as the name of a king but rather the name of one of the two cities which was built for the Pharaoh of the oppression by the forced labor of the Israelites (Exodus, 1:11), the other such city being Pithom.
It was originally derived from the names Randall, Randolph, and Miranda, and may be a short form (hypocorism) of them.
Wodehouse Gussie Carnegie, in Merrily We Roll Along (musical) by Stephen Sondheim See also Gussie Telfair, a merchant steamship built in 1862, formerly USS Gertrude Gus (disambiguation)
Chesterton's poem "Lepanto" (published in 1915) as one of the Islamic spirits commanded by "Mahound" (Muhammad) to resist Don John of Austria's crusade.
The name is in many instances a hypocoristic of either Emma (itself being in origin a hypocoristic of a number of ancient Germanic names beginning in Ermen-) or Emily, or Emmanuel (Emmanuelle).
House of Representatives from Ohio Bob McLeod (politician) (born 1952), Premier of the Northwest Territories Bob McNair (1937–2018), American businessman Bob Meeks (born 1969), American football player Bob Mercer (born 1946), American businessman Bob Menendez (born 1954), U.S.
Gambling games could be played for stakes (money) or "for love (of the game)", i.e., for zero stakes.
Kalkans (also Kolkans, Kalki, Kolki, Kalkan people) — ethnonym of the Ingush used in Russian sources of the 16th-17th centuries.
The nickname is associated with Flicka, a fictional horse in a book trilogy published during the 1940s by American author Mary O’Hara about an American boy and his mustang horse Flicka.
From around 1686, Swedish soldiers started to adopt military surnames; short monosyllabic tree-names like Al (Alder), Alm (Elm) and Ek (Oak) were popular.
It is derived from the name of the month, which comes from Maia, the name of a Roman fertility goddess.
Monty is a masculine given name, often a short form of Montgomery, Montague and other similar names.
Rhyming names were popular in the Middle Ages, so Rick became Hick or Dick, Will became Gill or Bill, and Rob became Hob, Dob, Nob, or Bob.
It came to be used as a separate (rare) German name, given officially in Germany from the later 19th century.
Nelly and Nellie are female given names, also used as nicknames, which are derived from the names Helen, Ellen, Petronella, Danielle, Cornelia, Eleanor, Janelle, Chanelle, Penelope, Elizabeth, Rachel, Natalie or Noelia.
Wattie or Watty is a masculine given name or nickname, often a diminutive form of Walter, and a surname.
Skræling From skrækja, meaning "bawl, shout, or yell" or from skrá, meaning "dried skin", in reference to the animal pelts worn by the Inuit.
'fast-day capon'), a seafood salad Humor and ethnic dysphemism Humorous exaltation often takes the form of a dysphemism disparaging particular groups or places.
The national anthem of Belgium is called the Brabançonne (English: "the Brabantian"), and the Belgium flag has taken its colors from the Brabant coat of arms: black, yellow and red.
Βουσεγραδε Vyshhorod bretar Welsh people D Danparstaþir A river near Árheimar, according to the Hervarar saga.
For example, a 1417 document by Stjepan Ostoja mentions i nostri boni Bosnensi, and the same term is used in a 1419 document by Stjepan Ostojić.
They often comprise the basis for praise poetry, serve as permanent titles, or as terms of formal address that reinforce status.
Southern Netherlands; the first evolved into present-day the Netherlands, the latter into present-day Belgium, after a brief unification in the early 19th century.
It may refer to: Đoka Mijatović (1848–78), Serbian socialist Đorđe Milovanović (1956–2009), Serbian footballer nicknamed Đoka bomba Đoka Bogdanović (1860–1914), Serbian film producer and cameraman that recorded the First Balkan War.
The Martins in Skye are traditionally associated with Clan Donald, and the Lothians were home to a powerful "de St Martin" family from the 12th century.
Today, the concept of "region" does not refer to a particular political entity, but alludes to regional geography.
Accordingly, God ordered the archangels to collect dust from earth from which Adam is supposed to be created.
"Terebinth", for example, describes Shechem as "near Neapolis", modern Nablus, and "Tophet" is located "in the suburbs of Jerusalem".
The Flemish were closely allied with the Normans, because William’s wife was the daughter of a Count of Flanders.
1600 – 1655), English nurse and Parliamentarian spy Elizabeth Allgeier (1941–2016), American psychologist and sexologist Elizabeth S.
Wales An Anglo-Norman knight named Robert Fitz Martin, born in the late 11th century, settled in England's West Country, on lands inherited from a grandfather, and later participated in the invasions of Wales, where he was awarded the barony of Cemaes, located between Fishguard and Cardigan.
List of praise names "Dicko" or "Dikko": All members of the Jelgobe noble lineage, part of the Jelgooji Fulani, are granted this name.
The same name is still used in Polish (Włochy, Włosi, włoskie) and Hungarian (Olasz, Olaszország) as an exonym for Italy, while in Slovak (Vlach - pl.
However, Eusebius who lived in Beit Gubrin (Eleutheropolis) speaks briefly about the country's ethnic make-up, principally, in the area of the country in which he was most familiar.
A key problem for the system was that since most of the county was rural farmland a significant number of farms in the county either lacked a proper address, or the address they had was not in any uniform system.
1946), Congolese politician and diplomat Dieudonné Gnammankou, Beninean historian Dieudonné de Gozon (fl.
1927), New Zealand footballer Wharton Wattie Davies (1873–1961), Welsh rugby union and rugby league footballer Peter Watt Wattie Dick (1927—2012), Scottish footballer Walter Wattie Dunphy (1896–1972), Irish hurler Walter Watty Friend (1898–c.
Samuel Johnson thought that since "aught" was generally used for "anything" in preference to "ought", so also "naught" should be used for "nothing" in preference to "nought".
Doe is an English given name and a hypocorism for different names beginning with Do such as Dorcas, Dorian, Doris, Dorothy or Dolores.
The name "Benelux" is formed from joining the first two or three letters of each country's name Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg.
Surnames including Apps, Asp, Epps and Hesp record that a person lived by an aspen tree, the letters often being swapped over.
Guiri (pronounced [ˈɡiɾi]) is a colloquial Spanish word often used in Spain to refer to uncouth foreign tourists, usually those with Northern European looks.
At Internet Archive: here accessed 19 Feb 2025) (The first English translation both of the Greek text by Eusebius and of the Latin translation by Jerome) Notley, R.S.; Safrai, Z., eds.
A hypocorism ( hy-POK-ər-iz-əm or HY-pə-KORR-iz-əm; from Ancient Greek ὑποκόρισμα hypokórisma; sometimes also hypocoristic), or pet name, is a name used to show affection for a person.
Fanny was a popular independent given name as well as a diminutive of other popular names in the 18th and 19th centuries.
He was also main editor of academic journal Folia onomastica Croatica and member of editorial board of journal Rasprave.
The conquered territory was granted wide administrative, legal and political self-government within the structure of the Crown of Aragon as stipulated in the set of laws known first as Costums de Valencia.
Although somewhat pejorative, it is not considered a slur by Spanish-speakers if used as a light-hearted tease.
Popularity The name Matthew became popular during the Middle Ages in Northwest Europe, and has been very common throughout the English-speaking world.
Similarly, the belief that children who were not yet baptised were in particular danger of having the fairies kidnap them and leave changelings in their place may stem from their unnamed state.
It originated as a diminutive of the English given name Frances or the French Françoise, both meaning "free one", and of the Spanish name "Estefanía" and the French name Stéphanie, both meaning "crown".
During his scientific career he received several awards, including award of the Municipality of Brač (1983), State award "Božidar Adžija" (1984), Order of Danica Hrvatska "Ruđer Bošković" (1998), State Lifetime Achievement award (2000), State award in the field of humanistic sciences (2009).
Reuel or Raguel (Hebrew: רְעוּאֵל, romanized: Rəʿūʾēl; Edomite: 𐤓𐤏𐤀𐤋 rʿʾl), meaning "God shall pasture" or more specifically "El shall pasture" (as a shepherd does with his flock) is a Hebrew name associated with several biblical and religious figures.
In New Zealand in 2023, the Registrar-General declined to accept the name for a baby's birth certificate because it might cause offense.
The word has sexual connotations in British English, typically meaning a sexually aroused or excited person.
The convention of numbering kings who had the same name did not exist in Ancient Egypt, the numbers of the various pharaohs called Rameses were provided by modern scholars.
Studiul lingvistic ("Aromanians, Aromanian dialect, Linguistic Study"), Bucharest, 1932 A.Hâciu, Aromânii, Comerţ.
Osborne (1852–1931), newspaper proprietor and editor in South Australia, Tasmanian mayor, brother of Samuel Robin Osborne (born 1957), historian of antiquity Samuel W.
Following the Portuguese settlement in Chittagong, the Portuguese fort and naval base came to be known as Firingi Bandar or the Foreigner's Port.
Smith House, Skaneateles, New York Other Raguel (angel) – one of the seven archangels in the rabbinic tradition and the Kabbalah == References ==
1102), Armenian general and ruler of Melitene Gabriel von Salamanca-Ortenburg (1489–1539), Spanish nobleman Gabriel de la Cueva, 5th Duke of Alburquerque (c.
Other similar ethnonyms for the Albanians were "Arbanaš", "arbanaški", "jezik" or "latins" as it is mentioned in the year 1300 in the village of Shën Gjergj to Skopje.
Representative from Pennsylvania Bob Ehrlich (born 1957), former governor of Maryland Bob Etheridge (born 1941), former U.S.
After a meeting on the proposed E911 implementation, Burkle went home and devised what would become the Burkle addressing system to address the challenges faced by the county.
"Welsh" was probably used as a pejorative dysphemism, meaning "anything substandard or vulgar", and suggesting that "only people as poor and stupid as the Welsh would eat cheese and call it rabbit", or that "the closest thing to rabbit the Welsh could afford was melted cheese on toast".
Addresses In addition to providing names for the many rural roads, the system also provides a method of assigning addresses to properties along these roads.
Osborne (born 1960), former president and CEO of Federal Signal Corporation William Osborn (Medal of Honor) (1837–1887), American soldier and Medal of Honor recipient William A.
This appeared in Valencian tourist department advertising and, since then, has been used by some other travel publications in English.
Farang in the Concise Oxford Dictionary at the Wayback Machine (archived 2012-03-29) German language bi-monthly magazine, published by Der Farang, Pattaya, Thailand The Thai word "Farang", its variations in other languages, and its Arabic origin
It was subsequently superseded by Ματθαῖος (Matthaios); this was Latinised as Matthaeus, which became Matthew in English.
First mention of Durdzuks can be found in the 7th-century work Geography of Armenia by Anania Shirakatsi as the Dourtsk (Armenian: Դուրծկք).
The term Arbanaška vera was first used by Pjetër Bogdani in 1685 in his Cvnevs Prophetarum when he mentioned the "shkietë" (Slavs) and used the Arbanaška vera to describe the Albanian faith.
In the 17th century, Juraj Ratkaj found a reflexion of the verb hrvati (se) "to wrestle" in the name.
It is also the English name for the female of several species of animal, including the deer and the rabbit, derived from the Old English dā, related to dēon ("to suck").
The popularity of the name is due to Matthew the Apostle, one of the twelve apostles of Jesus and the traditional author of the Gospel of Matthew.
Đoka (Serbian Cyrillic: Ђока, also transliterated Djoka) is a Serbian nickname, a diminutive (and hypocorism) of Đorđe (George).
Ramesses ( or ), also commonly spelled Rameses or Ramses (, , or ), is the name conventionally given in English transliteration to 11 Egyptian pharaohs of the later New Kingdom period.
Flicka was also one of a set of fictional identical triplets in Flicka, Ricka, Dicka, the English language translations of a series of Swedish children's books by Swedish author/illustrator Maj Lindman that were published from the 1930s to the 1960s in the Anglosphere.
Oswald Danes, a fictional character in the BBC television program, Torchwood Oswald McGillicutty, a fictional character from the Saw franchise See also Oswaldo (Spanish Oswalds) Oswald (surname) Oswald (disambiguation) Ansaldo (name) == References ==
According to the Yin Wenzi, there are three categories of names: Names for things (物之名), corresponding to nouns.
Many crusaders spoke (Old) French and were from the territory of modern France; while others came from other regions, such as modern Italy or England.
Susat Soest, Germany Súrsdalar Suzdal T Tarlungaland Probably a corruption of Karlungaland, i.e., the land of the Carolingians.
Chinese Daoist traditions such as the Three Sovereigns corpus emphasize the capacity of talismans, charts, and diagrams to depict the true forms (zhenxing 真形) and true names (zhenming 真名) of demons and spirits.
Biblical figures Biblical persons with this name are: A son of Esau by Mahalath, father of Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah (Genesis 36:4,10; 1 Chronicles 1:35) Moses' father-in-law, also named as Jethro and Hobab (Judges 4:11, Exodus 2:18; Numbers 10:29).
It has been observed that "Celtic dishes seem to receive more than their share of humorous names in English cookbooks".
Exonyms Durdzuks (Georgian: დურძუკები, romanized: durdzuk'ebi), also known as Dzurdzuks — medieval ethnonym of Georgian origin for the Nakh peoples.
vi most commonly refers to: vi (text editor), a screen-oriented text editor software application VI, Vi, vi, V.I., or v.i.
It is notable that the papyrus is an onomasticon, but it also lists words that are not known from any other sources, yet their meanings are known (i.e.
'potato trout') in Catalan cuisine, a potato omelette: "if you don't catch a trout, you've got to have something more humble for dinner -- something to pretend is a trout".
It comes from the Latin name Martinus, which is a late derived form of the name of the Roman god Mars, protective godhead of the Latins and, therefore, god of war.
The female triplets were called Rufsi, Tufsi, Tott in the original Swedish editions of the tales published during the 1920s in Sweden.
It is a combination of Dora with the suffix -een, which is related to the -ín suffix used in Irish, usually signifying small size or as an endearment.
Osborn (1821–1894), American railroad tycoon Sir William Osborne, 8th Baronet (died 1783), Irish baronet and politician Willson Osborne (1906–1979), American composer Winton B.
The city is now commonly identified as Pi-Ramesses (House of Ramesses), the new capital founded by Ramesses II.
1768), British silversmith Elizabeth Nasmyth, Scottish painter and interior designer Elizabeth Neel (born 1975), American painter Elisabeth Neurdenburg (c.
In 1927, Midhat Frashëri published an article in the Albanian paper Dituria where he writes that the Serbian medieval despots used to denounce the Catholic faith as "Arbanaska vera".
Sakač linked it with the Avestan name Harahvaitī, which once signified the southwestern part of modern Afghanistan, the province Arachosia.
BM EA 10202), and is a cursive hieratic manuscript which contains a copy of the Onomasticon of Amenope.
Earliest record In 2005, it was archaeologically confirmed that the ethnonym Croatorum (half-preserved) is mentioned for the first time in a church inscription found in Bijaći near Trogir dated to the end of the 8th or early 9th century.
In Joy Williams's 2024 novel Concerning the Future of Souls, Azrael is a core character, although his responsibilities extend beyond serving as a psychopomp for humanity alone—he also collects the souls of other sentient beings on Earth, such as whales and apes.
One of the names taken up by these Jewish conversos (originally known in Spain as Marranos, but preferred term is 'anusim' which is Hebrew for "forced") was "Martí" (also spelt "Marty").
There is another theory by Juan Goytisolo that guiri is a neologism from Caló, which itself derives from the Moroccan and Algerian Arabic gaouri, a word with a similar meaning applying to Europeans, which in turn stems from Ottoman Turkish gâvur.
Appearing in a number of documents from the period, it was often coupled with the word "Good" (Dobri, Добри).
Shetland Hlymrekr Limerick Hólmgarðr, Holmgarðir "Island enclosure", the fortress of Rurikovo Gorodische near Veliky Novgorod.
In the list of Papal Tithes from 1332–1337 in the Kingdom of Hungary, one settlement mentioned in the source as Romanian: "Căprioara".
Traduccíon estilizada y literal, notas exegéticas y estudio de Nuño Valenzuela Alonso; edición bilingüe chino - español; prólogo de Eric Hutton (University of Utah, USA) y Pedro San Gines (Universidad de Granada, Spain).
1410–1461), French poet Franc Noir de la Haute-Saône, a traditional French variety of red wine grape
1919), Russian revolutionary and feminist activist Élisabeth Doineau (born 1961), French politician Elisabeth Domitien (c.
A praise name is a figurative or descriptive name that is given to either a person, animal, clan, deity, or inanimate object.
The left-wing parties accepted as the flag of Valencia a senyera including a blue strip and the coat of arms of the generalitat, and the right-wing parties accepted the term País Valencià in the statute's preamble.
Flicka is an English hypocorism for different names that is also occasionally used as a formal given name.
Историческое, топографическое, статистическое, этнографическое и военное описание Кавказа [Historical, topographical, statistical, ethnographic and military description of the Caucasus] (in Russian).
The name fell out of use in the later medieval period, although it appears to have been rarely given in reference to the saint even in the late 14th century, as evidenced by the name of German poet and diplomat Oswald von Wolkenstein (1376/7–1445).
Osborne English writer People with the given name Osborne Osborne Reynolds, innovator in the understanding of fluid dynamics Osbeorn Bulax, Anglo-Saxon warrior Osbern the Steward, steward to two Dukes of Normandy Osbern FitzOsbern, Anglo-Norman Bishop of Exeter Osborne I.
Royalty Empress Elizabeth, lists various empresses named Elizabeth Queen Elizabeth, lists various queens named Elizabeth Elizabeth I (1533–1603; r.
Origins According to the Real Academia Dictionary, the word can be traced back to 19th century Carlist Wars in the form "guiristino", the pronunciation of Basque-speaking Carlist forces of the name of their enemies, the Cristinos (after regent Queen María Cristina).
Somalia The term 'Faranji' is used in Somalia, particularly in the northern and central regions, to refer to white people and various elements of Western culture, such as clothing, music, and other civilizational aspects.
Relationship between Azrael and death Islam elaborated further narratives concerning the relation between Azrael and Death.
Mæqqæl — to the Ossetians, initially referred to neighbouring Ingush clans who lived in the area of Armkhi.
John Ronald Reuel Tolkien (1892–1973), English writer Christopher Tolkien (1924–2020), son and literary executor of J.
As the recipient of the Humboldt Foundation scholarship he worked at the Slavic Department of the University of Cologne between 1972 and 1974 under Reinhold Olesch mentorship, and lectured between 1994 and 1998.
Clarke's short story The Nine Billion Names of God, the universe ends when all of God's names are discovered by Tibetan monks.
Laurel, for a victor's wreath made of the sweet bay or laurel, with feminine forms such as Laura, is used for both boys and girls.
Senator from Utah Bob Beaumont (1932–2011), American automobile businessman Bob Beauprez (born 1948), former U.S.
The syntagm of Dobri Bošnjani, Добри Бошњани (the "Good Bosnians") which appear in historical documents (charters) as a social and ethical category, historian Srečko Džaja relates to similar syntagm of "boni homines".
It is thus related to many other feminine given names, including Dorian, Dorinda, Theodora and Isidora.
1930–2008), Argentine-born Colombian actress, theatre producer and entrepreneur Fanny Mills (1860–1899), British-American circus performer Fanny E.
See also List of ancient Egyptian papyri Amenemope Onomastics Prosopography References Parkinson, R., et alia, Cracking Codes, the Rosetta Stone, and Decipherment, (Berkeley: University of California Press, c.
Besides doing research in the field of onomastics, also did field research in dialectology, particularly Chakavian, for the Slavic Linguistic Atlas (OLA) and Croatian Dialect Atlas (HDA).
In linguistics, the term can be used more specifically to refer to the morphological process by which the standard form of the word is transformed into a form denoting affection, or to words resulting from this process.
However, as the text thereon only lists names, an association of this angelic name with death cannot be identified in Judaism.
These names include: Theobald, Theodahad, Theodard, Theodebert, Theodemir, and Theodoric People with the name Theo See Theo and Théo for a current alphabetical list of all people with the first name Theo or Théo in the English Wikipedia.
This Third Intermediate Period work is known from eight other fragmentary copies, and relates back to the late New Kingdom era.
195–198, ISBN 978-953-263-034-3, archived from the original (PDF) on 8 August 2019, retrieved 14 October 2011 Šimunković, Ljerka (1996), Mletački dvojezični proglasi u Dalmaciji u 18.
The ancient Jews considered God's true name so potent that its invocation conferred upon the speaker tremendous power over His creations.
Serbian historian Dimitrije Bogdanović writes that Andrea Bogdani, nephew of Pjeter, wrote in 1662 a report to the Propagation of the Faith mentioning that the core of the Catholics in Serbia are the Albanians and that the Catholic faith in Serbia is called "Arbanaska vera".
Mohism and Legalism Because the rectification of names in the Analects of Confucius appears to have been written later, the rectification of names has been argued in western sinology to have earlier have originated in Mozi (470–391 BC).
Dieudonné is a French name normally meaning "Gift of God", and thus similar to the Greek-derived Theodore, Hebrew-derived Matthew, or the Spanish Diosdado.
Moir (1907–2001) American floral designer, orchid breeder, botanical collector, and horticulturalist May Mourning Farris McKinney (1874-1959), American non-profit executive May Mikati (?–?), wife of Najib Mikati, Lebanese prime minister May W.
When Confucius was asked what he would do if he was a governor, he said he would "rectify the names" to make words correspond to reality.
Dora is a variant of Dorothy / Dorothea, which derives from the Late Greek name Δωρόθεος (Dorotheos), which meant "gift of god" (from δῶρον/doron meaning "gift" and θεός/theos meaning "god".
They are usually laudatory and refer to a quality or action, though in the pursuit of essentialising something they can be derogatory.
Since by population and extension, the Valencian Community is quite larger than the Región de Murcia, for some this term was narrowed to vaguely designate what today is the Valencian Community.
People named Gabriel Royal houses, nobility and clergy Gabriel of Kakheti (died 881), Prince and Chorepiscopus of Kakheti Gabriel of Melitene (died c.
History The system was created by the Stark County, North Dakota, emergency coordinator Kornard Burkle in 1988 as a way of assigning addresses to houses for use in the then soon to be implemented enhanced 911 services in Stark County.
Variations Surnames A number of surnames are derived from the name in different languages: See also List of people with given name Matthew == References ==
Many historians assume the terms beorm and bjarm to derive from the Uralic word perm, which refers to "travelling merchants" and represents the Old Permic culture.
Mak (Thai: หมาก) is Thai for areca nut; chewing mak together with betel leaves (bai phlu) was a Thai custom.
Eusebius references the encampment of the Legio X Fretensis at Aila (in southern Jordan, near modern Aqaba); the X Fretensis was probably transferred from Jerusalem to Aila under Diocletian (r.
Notable people referred to by this name include the following: See also All pages with titles beginning with Chas All pages with titles containing Chas Chas (disambiguation) Chal (name) Char (name) == References ==
The first known use of Doreen may have been in Edna Lyall's 1894 novel Doreen: The Story of a Singer.
Horrie is a masculine given name, typically used in Australia as a hypocorism (pet name) for Horace, as well as a surname.
Feinler (born 1931), American information scientist Elizabeth Fentress (born 1948), American archaeologist Elizabeth Warnock Fernea (1927–2008), American anthropologist, writer and filmmaker Elisabeth Fischer-Friedrich, German biophysicist Elizabeth Gault Fisher (1909–2000), U.S.
See also Gringo List of common nouns derived from ethnic group names List of ethnic slurs List of ethnic slurs and epithets by ethnicity List of terms for ethnic exogroups Lists of pejorative terms for people Xenophobia == References ==
It is used in the state of North Dakota for rural addresses to be used for the 911 system as well as mail delivery to rural properties.
Bošnjani (Cyrillic: Бошњани; singular masculine: Bošnjanin / Бошњанин, feminine: Bošnjanka / Бошњанка; Latin: Bosniensis), meaning Bosnians, is the name originating from the Middle Ages, used for the inhabitants of Bosnia.
(born 1988), Japanese singer May Kassab (born 1981), Egyptian artist May Maple (1914–2012), electrical engineer, president of the Women's Engineering Society May McAvoy (1899–1984), American actor May A.
By contrast, the Hispanic form Osvaldo became popular in the United States by the 1970s, peaking at rank 410 in 2004.
mokzvenacode: tsn promoted to code: tn (based on kwenacode: tsn promoted to code: tn which means "crocodile") can be used for anyone belonging to the Tswana Kwena clan).
In the Dušan's Code, the Albanians were mentioned as "Latin believers", "heretic Latins", or "non-believers".
A letter from 1345 from Pope Clement VI to the Hungarian king Louis I, the phrase quod Olachi Romani appears, which can be interpreted as an expression of the papal chancellery's conviction about the Roman origin of the Wallachians.
Women with the name Men with the name Nellie Briles (1943–2005), American baseball player Nelly Cruz (born 1980), Dominican-American professional baseball player Nellie Fox (1927–1975), American professional baseball player Nelly, stage name of American rapper Cornell Iral Haynes Jr.
It may be a diminutive form of a person's name, such as Izzy for Isabel or Bob for Robert, or it may be unrelated.
Osborn (1833–1898), American soldier and politician Tom Osborne (born 1937), American politician and football coach R.
Its popularity in the United States peaked in 1886 at rank 451, and it fell below rank 1,000 in the mid-1930s.
Nikulitsa switched alliance to Samuel of Bulgaria after the conquest of Larissa by the Bulgarian Tsar.
Tree surnames such as Oakes (Oak) and Nash (Ash) are toponymic, given to a person in the Middle Ages who lived in a place near a conspicuous tree.
Maiú and Maidiú were both a borrowing of the name Matthew among the Anglo-Normans settlers in Ireland.
Bogić (Serbian Cyrillic: Богић) is a Serbo-Croatian male given name and surname, predominantly borne by ethnic Serbs, derived from the word bog meaning "god".
See also Trade name Brand Notes Bibliography "Culinary terminology" in Oxford Companion to Food, 1st edition, s.v.
The non-native name of Croatia (Croatian: Hrvatska) derives from Medieval Latin Croātia, itself a derivation of the native ethnonym of Croats, earlier *Xъrvate and modern-day Croatian: Hrvati.
Notable bearers were: Ptahhotep, vizier of the 5th Dynasty, and purported author of The Maxims of Ptahhotep; Ptahhotep Desher, vizier of the 5th Dynasty; Ptahhotep (Djedkare) vizier of the 5th Dynasty, perhaps brother of the above; Ptahhotep Tjefi, vizier of the 5th Dynasty, grandson of Ptahhotep.
Whilst the production standards were as good as the original, and all items were made to the original W Lusty & Sons designs, the sales could not be developed in the United Kingdom and in 2008 the business called in advisors to find a new owner.
The company developed a number of innovative looms, of which the Hattersley Standard Loom – developed in 1921 – was a great success.
Northrops were especially suitable for coarse cottons, but it was said not particularly suitable for fines, thus the financial advantage in their introduction into Lancashire was not as great as it had been in the United States.
The machine was used to arrange and lay parallel by length the fibers of wool, prior to further treatment.
Floor looms and mechanized looms both use a beater with a reed, whereas Inkle weaving and tablet weaving do not use reeds.
John Capron and Sons (1820): installed the first power looms for woolens in North America at Uxbridge, Massachusetts.
Cartwright’s invention marked the beginning of mechanized weaving, drastically reducing reliance on skilled handweavers.
The warp threads pass through the dents after going through the heddles and before becoming woven cloth.
This produces strings of interconnected loops called Brunnian links, which depending on the pattern used, forms jewelry, headbands, keychains, action figures or other shapes when removed.
Beyond the capital expense, Jacquard machines cost more to maintain as they are complex, require highly-skilled operators, and use expensive systems to prepare designs for the loom.
The woven fabric emerges with a small amount of residual moisture, which is removed by drying rollers or heaters before winding.
A continuous roll of paper was punched by hand, in sections, each of which represented one lash or tread, and the length of the roll was determined by the number of shots in each repeat of pattern.
Most windows are rectangular, but there are several in an older section that are set in round-arch openings.
The shuttle is thrown by two levers attached to the side frame, but activated by a friction roller on the tappet shaft.
For example, Sir Edwin Henry Landseer's painting Bolton Abbey in Ye Olden Times was produced in tapestry form by a Jacquard Loom at a Franco-British exhibition in 1908.
A peg loom is a board, usually wooden, with one or more rows of holes, and a set of wooden or nylon pegs which fit into these holes.
Because of their mass production techniques they were reluctant and slow to retool for new technologies such as shuttleless looms.
Some may have lead inserts to provide additional heft for a smaller beater, and some are made entirely from metal.
By the early 19th century, improvements had made power looms reliable and widely adopted across Europe and North America, ushering in a new era of textile manufacturing.
Heddles should have a smooth eye, with no sharp edges to either catch or fray (and thus weaken) the warp.
The actual beating is done by a metal insert known as a reed, which contains a number of slots, known as dents, which the warp threads pass through.
It was an established point of export using the meandering River Mersey, and by 1800 it had a thriving canal network, with links to the Ashton Canal, Rochdale Canal the Peak Forest Canal and Manchester Bolton & Bury Canal.
The business was dominated by a few families, who had the capital needed to invest in new mills and to buy hundreds of looms.
Both are floor looms in which every warp thread on the loom is attached to a single shaft using a device called a heddle.
Control A manual dobby uses a chain of bars or lags each of which has pegs inserted to select the shafts to be moved.
The Cartwright loom weaver could work one loom at 120-130 picks per minute—with a Kenworthy and Bullough's Lancashire Loom, a weaver can run four or more looms working at 220-260 picks per minute—thus giving eight (or more) times more throughput.
Shuttles are thrown or passed back and forth through the shed, between the yarn threads of the warp in order to weave in the weft.
Rigid heddle looms, for example, instead of having one heddle for each thread, have a shaft with the 'heddles' fixed, and all threads go through every shaft.
Although many of the patterns used on this braiding stand resemble the up and down motion of a weave, since each thread takes a turn at being both the weft and the warp, it is a braid.
Manual On a treadle loom, each foot-operated treadle is connected by a linkage called a tie-up to one or more shafts.
When the heddle-bar is pulled perpendicular to the warp, it pulls the warp threads it is tied to out of position, creating a shed.
Different yarns can be used to create patterns, and when using sticks a curved piece of work can be created by weaving less often round certain sticks.
When the shuttle ran out of thread, Northrop's mechanism ejected the depleted pirn and loaded a new full one without stopping.
As an example, one English company makes looms from 200–1,200 millimetres (8–47 in), with 9-63 holes.
Because foot pedals, or treadles, operate the loom it is still classed as a handloom, but it is much easier and faster to weave as all the motions of the loom are connected via crankshaft and gear wheels.
The box sits beside a loom and allows one to rapidly switch between two shuttles with bobbins, usually of different colors, making it easier and quicker to weave multiple colors for figured fabrics or striped wefts without stopping to manually change shuttles.
The Cartwight loom weaver could work one loom at 120–130 picks per minute- with a Kenworthy and Bullough's Lancashire Loom, a weaver can run up to six looms working at 220–260 picks per minute- thus giving 12 times more throughput.
William Horrocks, a cotton manufacturer of Stockport built an early power loom in 1803, based on the principles of Cartwright but including some significant improvements to cloth take up and in 1813 battening.
The principal advantage of the Northrop loom was that it was fully automatic; when a warp thread broke, the loom stopped until it was fixed.
Joseph Marie Jacquard saw that a mechanism could be developed for the production of sophisticated patterns.
In mid-May 2015, Rainbow Loom released two new products: The Alpha Loom, another travel-sized loom that can be used to make vibrantly colored name bracelets with special types of new bands, which are twice as thick but half the size of regular bands.
If cloth needed to be wider, two people would do the task (often this would be an adult with a child).
The wool combing machine was improved refined by many later inventors, including Josué Heilmann, Samuel Cunliffe Lister, Isaac Holden, and James Noble.
Metal temples are often recommended for rugs because the size and angle of the teeth are better for gripping the thick edges.
After a brief hiatus, production resumed in Menominee in 1982 after Flanders Industries purchased the Lloyd Manufacturing works there, forming the Lloyd Flanders company.
He tried to show them how they could link the rubber bands together but was unsuccessful because of the large size of his fingers, so he stuck a scrap board with multiple rows of pegs on which the bands could be linked more easily.
It had a metal frame, and was described as neat and compact so hundreds could be at work in a single room.
In the United States, shuttles are often made of wood from the flowering dogwood, because it is hard, resists splintering, and can be polished to a very smooth finish.
The drop box consists of a partitioned lift mechanism at one end of the loom, of which any section can be lowered to the working height of the loom so that the shuttle can be loaded.
Dobby looms first appeared around 1843, roughly 40 years after Joseph Marie Jacquard invented the Jacquard device that can be mounted atop a loom to lift the individual heddles and warp threads.
Pirns are wound from the base forward in order to ensure snag-free delivery of the thread, unlike bobbins, which are wound evenly from end to end.
This allows the weaver to load and switch weave drafts in seconds without even getting up from the loom.
For a plain weave on a loom with two shafts, for example, the first thread would go through the first heddle on the first shaft, and then the next thread through the first heddle on the second shaft.
It was the first loom that was more viable than a hand loom and was easily adjustable and reliable, which led to its widespread use in the Lancashire cotton industry.
The simplest shuttles, known as "stick shuttles", are made from a flat, narrow piece of wood with notches on the ends to hold the weft yarn.
Cartwright's loom was impractical but the ideas behind it were developed by numerous inventors in the Manchester area of England.
In addition to being able to handle sequences that are virtually unlimited, the construction of the shaft sequences is done on the computer screen rather than by building a mechanical dobby chain.
It was designed in 2013 by Choon's Designs LLC of Wixom, Michigan and licensed to The Beadery Craft Products in Hope Valley, Rhode Island as the exclusive manufacturer.
244, ISBN 9780521458344 Jenkins, Geraint (1972), Geraint Jenkins (ed.), The wool textile industry in Great Britain, London & Boston: Routledge Keegan Paul, ISBN 0-7100-69790 Marsden, Richard (1895), Cotton Weaving: Its Development, Principles, and Practice, George Bell & Sons, p.
These processes were time-consuming; if dressing took place on the loom, the loom had to remain idle until the threads dried.
With its original portion dating to 1860, the complex is one of the oldest surviving industrial sites in the city.
Circular handlooms Circular looms are used to create seamless tubes of fabric for products such as hosiery, sacks, clothing, fabric hoses (such as fire hoses) and the like.
Cartwright's invention, nicknamed "Big Ben," was originally patented in April 1790, with subsequent patents following in December 1790 and May 1792 as the machine's design was refined by Cartwright.
Wonder Loom is a toy loom designed for children, used mainly as a way for them to create colorful bracelets and charms by weaving rubber bands together into Brunnian links.
258, ISBN 0-08-018057-4 Hills, Richard Leslie (1993), Power from Steam: A History of the Stationary Steam Engine, Cambridge University Press, p.
A darker side of the power loom's impact was the growth of employment of children in power loom mills.
On Ancient Greek vase paintings, two weavers, most often women, are shown working side-by-side on the warp-weighted loom.
Also, threads can be put in every other dent so as to make a cloth with 6 ends per inch from a reed with 12 dents per inch.
This paved the way to his automatic filling and changing battery of 1891, the basic feature of the Northrop Loom.
The weaving trade was only partially mechanised before about 1830, and that even so late as 1850, handloom weavers made up a sizeable minority of the total workforce.
Then a pattern is formed by interchanging strands from the bottom braid to the upper braid, and by changing the braiding sequence.
This can easily be several hundred dobby bars, although an average dobby chain will have approximately fifty bars.
Capabilities at the Green Street facility included machining, drop hammer forging, a cast iron foundry (which also produced ductile and malleable iron castings), wood working, and pattern making, along with a materials testing lab.
On July 5, the completed loom was running, and as it seemed to have more advantages than the Rhoades loom.
After reworking the loom to simplify the design, Ng licensed the Wonder Loom to The Beadery Craft Products as the exclusive US manufacturer.
A water-jet loom (also written waterjet loom, water jet loom, or hydraulic jet loom) is a type of shuttleless loom in which a high-velocity jet of water is used as the propulsion medium to carry the weft yarn across the warp shed during each pick.
In weaving, a drop box or dropbox is a housing for a shuttle, invented in 1759 or 1760 by Robert Kay (1727-1802) in Bury, Lancashire.
An air-jet loom is a shuttleless loom that uses a jet of air to propel the weft yarn through the warp shed.
Cartwright's loom was little used; he established a powerloom factory at Doncaster in 1787 which closed after few years.
See also Dobby loom Jacquard loom Paul Moody Northrop Loom Textile manufacture during the Industrial Revolution References External links "rapier loom | weaving".
A number of Lloyd Loom manufacturers and retailers both in the UK and abroad have emerged designing, producing and selling various indoor and outdoor Lloyd Loom product lines.
Power looms Edmund Cartwright bought and patented a power loom in 1785, and it was this loom that was adopted by the nascent cotton industry in England.
Whilst the drop box made weaving equipment significantly more complex and expensive, it made the process much faster and contributed to a greater uptake of the flying shuttle which was invented by Robert Kay's father John Kay.
Economics The principal advantage of the Northrop loom was that it was fully automatic; when a warp thread broke, the loom stopped until it was fixed.
A temple is an adjustable stretcher used on a loom to maintain the width and improve the edges of the woven fabric.
A weaver working on a treadle loom must remember the entire sequence of treadlings that make up the pattern, and must keep track of where they are in the sequence at all times.
The brainchild of John Kay, the flying shuttle received a patent in the year 1733 during the Industrial Revolution.
As of October 2013, Rainbow Loom's YouTube channel featured 66 how-to videos and had received nearly 4 million views.
The Crompton Loom Works is located south of downtown Worcester, at the junction Green and Harrison Streets.
One of the chief advantages claimed for the Jacquard machine was that unlike previous damask-weaving machines, in which the figuring shed was usually drawn once for every four shots, with the new apparatus, it could be drawn on every shot, thus producing a fabric with greater definition of outline.
Circular: Modern circular looms use up to ten shuttles, driven in a circular motion from below by electromagnets, for the weft yarns, and cams to control the warp threads.
Rayon, an artificial silk, was invented in the 1930s in nearby Silsden, and the Hattersley Silk Loom was adapted to weave this new fabric.
Notched stick shuttles, rag shuttles, and ski shuttles Boat shuttles Boat shuttles may be closed (central hollow with a solid bottom) or open (central hole goes right through).
Looms and the Manchester context The development of the power loom in and around Manchester was not a coincidence.
Pirns became important with the development of the flying shuttle, though they are also used with other end delivery shuttles.
The threads are attached to weighted bobbins called tamas and lay on wood pieces with pegs that are called koma.
Water-jet looms are valued for their compactness, quiet operation, mechanical simplicity, and freedom from weft vibration.
Following the development of power looms, it was quickly suggested that the drop box ought to be applied to them, so as to enable more complex designs to be woven mechanically.
The facility was established by George Crompton, whose father William had invented the first power loom for weaving fancy fabrics.
This machine is the first example of mechanization of the wool combing stage of the textile manufacturing process, and a significant achievement for the textile industry.
The pegs are inserted into the loom, or the sticks are handheld, and the weft thread is woven around the pegs or sticks.
Unlike a bobbin, it is fixed in place, and the thread is delivered off the end of the pirn rather than from the centre.
This means that the shape of a loom weight limits a loom to certain thread counts, and the mass of the loom weight is related to the yarn used.
While Manchester became a spinning town, the towns around were weaving towns producing cloth by the putting out system.
His machine was generally similar to Vaucanson's arrangement, but he made use of Jean-Baptiste Falcon's individual pasteboard cards and his square prism (or card "cylinder"): he is credited with having fully perforated each of its four sides, replacing Vaucanson's perforated "barrel".
Sleying is done by inserting a reed hook through the reed, hooking the warp threads and then pulling them through the dent.
The braiding progresses on a 'V' front, as opposed to weaving on a regular loom that progresses on a straight front.
Most of their looms have three rows of holes, with 6mm pegs at spacings of 12.5mm and 9mm holes at spacings of 18.5 and 25.4mm.
Function During the process of weaving, fabrics can decrease in width (draw in) due to the interlacement of the weft material.
Each time the weaver moved the sley to beat-up the weft, a rachet and pawl mechanism advanced the cloth roller.
The word dobby is a corruption of "draw boy," which refers to the weaver's helpers who used to control the warp thread by pulling on draw threads.
A single weaver had control of this motion but the flying shuttle could weave much wider fabric than an arm's length at much greater speeds than had been achieved with the hand thrown shuttle.
The younger Crompton's business would become of the most significant employers in the city, and his innovative looms would revolutionize the textile industry.
For yet unknown reasons, the warp-weighted loom diminished in popularity and disappeared from common use.
Threads can be doubled in every other space, so that a reed with 10 dents per inch could give 15 ends per inch, or 20 if the threads were simply doubled.
See also Crompton Mill Historic District Crompton-Shenandoah Plant National Register of Historic Places listings in northwestern Worcester, Massachusetts == References ==
References Bibliography Textile Terms and Definitions, 11th revised edition, The Textile Institute, 2002.
The majority of current worldwide Lloyd Loom production takes place in Indonesia, China and Vietnam.
Method In an air-jet loom, yarn is pulled from the supply package, and the measuring disc removes a length of yarn of the width of fabric being woven.
The manufacturing capabilities on the site were applied to producing can packaging machines and bowling pinsetters.
Here there is a flywheel to smooth the motion and a crank mechanism to drive the battens (swords) and a toothed wheel.
Several heddle-bars can be used side-by-side; three or more can be used to weave twill weaves, for instance.
History The Wonder Loom was created by Cheong Choon Ng, who is also the creator of the Rainbow Loom, when Walmart and other retailers requested a made-in-the-USA version of the toy.
The complex was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980, and included as part of the Blackstone Canal Historic District in 1995.
The advantage of a dobby loom becomes even more pronounced on looms with 12 shafts (4094 possible sheds), 16 shafts (65,534 possible sheds), or more.
A shuttle is a tool designed to neatly and compactly store a holder that carries the thread of the weft yarn while weaving with a loom.
Crompton and his successors would operate the loom manufacturing works at Green Street well into the 1960s.
The weight provides tension on the threads; this is countered by another weight suspended from the braid underneath the kagami.
Non-rigid heddles Rigid heddles or (above) are called "rigid" to distinguish them from string and wire heddles.
The shed of a jack loom is smaller for a given length of warp being pulled aside by the heddles (loom depth).
The warp-weighted looms were common throughout Europe, remaining in use in some areas of Scandinavia into the modern era.
The Crompton Loom Works is an historic industrial complex of the Crompton Corporation at 132-142 Green Street in Worcester, Massachusetts.
Air-jet looms are capable of producing standard household and apparel fabrics for items such as shirts, denim, sheets, towels, and sports apparel, as well as industrial products such as printed circuit board cloths.
Hand beaters must have enough mass to force the weaving into place, so they come in a variety of weights and sizes.
The tie-up consists of cords or similar mechanical linkages tying the treadles to the lams that actually lift or lower the shaft.
The most common injury in weaving is pinched fingers from distracted or bored workers, though this is not the only such injury found.
The silk loom made by Jacques Vaucanson in 1745 operated on the same principles but wasn't developed further.
A Compendious History of the Cotton-Manufacture; with a disapproval of the claim of Sir Richard Arkwright to the invention of its ingenious machinery.
As the warp was now dressed away from the loom, the Horrocks loom could be run continuously, being stopped only to piece broken threads and to replenish the weft in the shuttle.
It is even possible to change tie-ups in the middle of weaving a cloth but this is a tedious process, so this too is rarely done.
When first built, the main building was only two stories tall, and was altered several times, with the tower and third floor added in the 1880s.
Sulzer Brothers, a Swiss company had the exclusive rights to shuttleless looms in 1942, and licensed the American production to Warner & Swasey.
As the cloth is woven, the warp threads are gradually unrolled from the warp beam, and the woven portion of the cloth is rolled up onto the cloth beam (which is also called the takeup roll).
In 1788, Scottish weavers Joseph Alexander and James McKevin were likely the first to introduce the flying shuttle to The United States.
Grimshaw's factory at Manchester, which opened in 1790 and contained twenty four Cartwright looms, was burnt down by protesting hand loom weavers.
The Horrocks loom, introduced in 1803, featured an improved method of taking up the cloth onto the beam once it was woven.
Pile carpets generally do not use shedding for the pile, because each pile thread is individually knotted onto the warps, but there may be shedding for the weft holding the carpet together.
Both types have a shaft, whose length can be adjusted, and sharp prongs at each end to attach to the fabric.
To prepare the loom, the warp threads needed to be strengthened by applying a wet size (a process called dressing) and then wound onto a beam or roller that fitted on the back of the loom (a process called warping or beaming).
In May 1920 Frank Lusty sought the British rights to the new Lloyd Loom fabric, having been tipped off by Lusty's New York agent.
Dobbies can produce more complex fabric designs than tappet looms but are limited in comparison to Jacquard looms.
When pulled perpendicular to the threads (or rotated to stand on edge, for wide, flat shedding rods), it creates a counter shed.
The building's style is industrial Italianate, with quoined building corners and corbelling on the eave of the main tower.
Shuttle looms The main components of the loom are the warp beam, heddles, harnesses, shuttle, reed, and takeup roll.
Cam shedding, also known as tappet shedding, is the control of the movement of heald shafts in weaving simple constructions by means of cams or tappets.
(1986), The Gregs of Quarry Bank Mill: The Rise and Decline of a Family Firm, 1750–1914, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-32382-6 External links Selected Cotton Chats- Draper Corporation 1901–1923 One Guy from Barlick- Textile Industry Project
Dewas introduced the idea of grasping the weft at its tip by the giver or a carrier rapier and transferring it to the taker or a receiver in the middle of the shed.
The maximum number of heald shafts controlled by tappet shedding is 20, but this is not possible in practice.
They also weave yarns of any type of fiber and can weave fabrics up to 110 inches in width without modification.
The Northrop was suitable for coarse thread but for fine cotton, the Lancashire loom was still preferred.
It is difficult: the output of power looms was certainly greater than that of the handlooms, but the handloom weavers produced higher quality cloths with greater profit margins.
Double-heddle looms are used in West Africa, Ethiopia and in Madagascar for the production of lamba cloth.
At the height of the business the Globe works employed almost 6000 workers and covered 52 acres (210,000 m2).
The weave pattern determines which harness controls which warp yarns, and the number of harnesses used depends on the complexity of the weave.
Economics In the mid 1830s, there were about twice as many weavers operating a variety of different handlooms as there were power-looms.
According to a 1830 report to the British House of Commons, by 1820 there were an estimated 14,150 power looms in both England and Scotland; that number increased to 55,500 by 1829.
History and production The air-jet loom was invented in Czechoslovakia in the 1950 by Vladimír Svatý and was later refined by Swiss, Dutch, and Japanese companies.
The advantage of this type of weaving is that water power is cheaper where water is directly available on site.
In either case the selected shafts are raised or lowered by either leg power on a dobby pedal or electric or other power sources.
The warp threads in the slots stay where they are, and the ones in the circular holes are pulled back and forth.
Prior to this breakthrough, the textile industry relied upon the coordination of four spinners to support a single weaver.
Hattersley Domestic Weaving can also be found in New Zealand, in use by Roderick McLean of McLean and Company in Oamaru.
In small hand weaving such as Inkle weaving and tablet weaving the beater may be combined with the shuttle into a single tool.
To use a temple, the length is first adjusted so that it matches the total width (or spread) of warp threads in the reed.
Use The warp-weighted loom is used in a near-vertical position, and the fabric is woven from the top of the loom toward the ground.
The kits are manufactured in China, and Ng supervises distribution out of a 7,500 square feet (700 m2) warehouse near his home.
The warp passes from the warp beam, passes over a friction guide roller, where it horizontally passes through the loom to a breastbeam.
It is speculated that Cartwright's failure was due to the loom's wooden frame and crude construction, Cartwright's inexperience in business, and the lack of an adequate method to prepare the warp.
Fluid-jet looms can operate at a faster speed than predecessor looms such as rapier looms, but they are not as common.
The main breakthrough came in 1922 when John Gabler invented the principle of loop transfer in the middle of the shed.
From the 1990s onward, incremental advances continued to improve the efficiency, width, and versatility of water-jet looms.
A dobby loom, or dobbie loom, is a type of floor loom that controls all the warp threads using a device called a dobby.
The knotter takes each new thread and knots it the existing end, which will pull it through the correct healds and reed, saving much time.
Repair heddles A repair heddle can be used if a heddle breaks, which is rare, or when the loom has been warped incorrectly.
Bullough also invented a simple but effective warning device which rang a bell every time a warp thread broke on his loom.
In the vicinity of Stockport, approximately 2,000 looms were in use by 1818, and by 1821 there were 32 factories containing 5,732 looms.
Meanwhile, Northrop invented a self-threading shuttle and shuttle spring jaws to hold a bobbin by means of rings on the butt.
One rapier carries the yarn to the center of the shed, where the opposing rapier picks up the yarn and carries it the remainder of the way across the shed.
The invention of the flying shuttle by John Kay was critical to the development of a commercially successful power loom.
In negative cam shedding, the heald shafts are either raised or lowered by the mechanism but are returned by the action of an external device, usually springs.
However, in the United Kingdom labour costs were not as significant and Northrop had only 2% of the British market.
Its defining characteristic is hanging weights (loom weights) which keep bundles of the warp threads taut.
The dandy-loom weaver would work in a small workshop and would rent the loom for 10½d a week and in 1825 could expect to earn 5s a week.
Obsolescence The flying shuttle dominated commercial weaving through the middle of the twentieth century.
The wool combing machine was invented by Edmund Cartwright, the inventor of the power loom, in Doncaster.
Grade school-age children make and swap their rubber-band bracelets in the same way as friendship bracelets, and children have posted thousands of their own instructional videos online.
A typical pirn is made of wood or plastic and is slightly tapered for most of its length, flaring out more sharply at the base, which fits over a pin in the shuttle.
Power looms which use pirns generally have automatic changing mechanisms which remove the spent pirn from the shuttle and replaces it with a fresh one, thus allowing for uninterrupted weaving.
The reliable Roberts loom was quickly adopted and again it was the spinning side that was short of capacity.
Water-jet looms generally require a clean water supply and filtration system to prevent nozzle clogging and to recycle the used water.
The Mouse Genetics Project (MGP) is a large-scale mutant mouse production and phenotyping programme aimed at identifying new model organisms of disease.
Despite being genetically identical the inoculated spores can give rise to both hermaphrodites and male gametophytes, depending on the secretion of antheridiogen; this phenomenon has been used to study plant pheromones and the cascade of events that leads to epigenetic changes in ferns.
In March 2020, the Cellosaurus created a page containing cell line information relevant to SARS-CoV-2 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Structure Colanic acid is composed of polyanionic heteropolysaccharides with hexasaccharide repeating units, consisting of glucose, fucose, galactose, and glucuronic acid.
Ensifer fredii exhibits a broad host-range and is able to nodulate both determinant hosts, such as soy, as well as indeterminate hosts including the pigeon pea.
As of July 2013, the MGP reports having over 900 mutant lines openly available to the international research community, and have "substantively complete" analysis for over 650 mutant lines, of which over 75 per cent have at least one abnormal phenotype.
Genetic transformation Natural genetic transformation in bacteria is a sexual process involving transfer of DNA from one cell to another through the intervening medium, and the integration of the donor sequence into the recipient genome by homologous recombination.
See also Stem cell Embryonic stem cell Induced pluripotent stem cell Adult stem cell Cell culture Immortalised cell line Stem-cell controversy Regenerative Medicine == References ==
See also Fungal prions PXMP3 Virus classification OLIGO Primer Analysis Software Point mutation Amyloid References External links Media related to Podospora anserina at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Podospora anserina at Wikispecies
Human umbilical artery endothelial cells (HUAECs) are cells derived from the endothelium of arteries from the umbilical cord.
A comparative study between modern representatives of the two lines may give insight into the evolution of mechanisms that contribute to the complexity of modern plants.
Further information about each Yeast gene has been extracted from the Saccharomyces Genome Database (SGD).
The type strain was isolated from a root nodule of Glycine max growing in Hunan Province, China, designated strain USDA 205 (= ATCC 35423 = PRC 205).
It can also be transmitted by not cleaning your cooking utensils properly, causing cross contamination.
This was transferred to Nicotiana benthamiana by Karel Domin in Bibliotheca Botanica (1929), honoring the original author in the specific epithet.
Fluid can be pumped through the gills' interiors by muscles associated with the lantern, but this does not provide a continuous flow, and occurs only when the animal is low in oxygen.
The DNA passes through the mannose permease complex in the inner membrane (encoded by the manXYZ genes) and immediately circularises using the cos sites, 12-base G-C-rich cohesive "sticky ends".
At times the ponds that Xenopus laevis is found in dry up, compelling it, in the dry season, to burrow into the mud, leaving a tunnel for air.
YEASTRACT allows the identification of documented or potential transcription regulators of a given gene and of documented or potential regulons for each transcription factor.
Coral bleaching, which results mainly from the rise in ocean temperature but which is aggravated with acidification, results in the dissociation of the algae / animal partnership leading to the expulsion of the algae.
When RNA polymerase transcribes these regions, it recruits N and forms a complex with several host Nus proteins.
Regular sea urchins have five gonads, lying underneath the interambulacral regions of the test, while the irregular forms mostly have four, with the hindmost gonad being absent; heart urchins have three or two.
The Japanese rice fish (Oryzias latipes), also known as the medaka, is a member of genus Oryzias (ricefish), the only genus in the subfamily Oryziinae.
The filled capsids are then coated with the nucleocapsid protein P8, and then outer membrane proteins somehow attract bacterial inner membrane, which then envelopes the nucleocapsid.
Stage Three: Cytotoxic effects are found in the release of toxins in EAEC as well as an elicitation of the inflammatory response, mucosal toxicity, and intestinal secretion.
The crystal structure of the Φ6 polymerase, solved in complex with a number of ligands, provides insights towards understanding the mechanism of primer-independent initiation of RNA-dependent RNA polymerization.
Activation and regulation Activation At least two positive protein regulators, RcsA and RcsB, are involved in the transcription of the operon for capsule (cps) gene expression in E.
Finally, the products were cloned inside the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to synthesize the 580,000 base pairs.
patens is one of a few known multicellular organisms with highly efficient homologous recombination.
The signals from the four chemosensory organs are processed in a lateral region and in the mushroom bodies.
References External links ANISEED Archived 2021-04-15 at the Wayback Machine, the Tunicate model organism database OikoBase Archived 2020-02-24 at the Wayback Machine, A curated genome expression database of Oikopleura dioica
japonicum is added to legume seed to improve crop yields, particularly in areas where the bacterium is not native (e.g.
Its entire genome was sequenced in 2002, revealing that the species has a single circular chromosome with 9,105,828 base pairs.
Molecular geneticists regard the species broadly as including both perennial and annual populations, but there is rationale for treating this complex as several distinct species (perennials are E.
When young, they have a lecanorine appearance; when mature they are lecideine in form, and up to about 1 mm in diameter.
benthamiana was developed that was able to produce 4% of the amount of cocaine found in a coca plant.
These data are immediately shared among the scientific and medical research community through a bespoke open access database, and summaries are displayed in other online resources, including the Mouse Genome Informatics database and the Wikipedia-based Gene Wiki.
It is considered a model organism for the study of molecular biology of senescence (aging), prions, sexual reproduction, and meiotic drive.
The medium is replaced every 2 days and after 6 days the culture is fixed or frozen for further processing.
Furthermore, molecular assays for quinolone resistance-associated mutations are available at specialised laboratories in suspected treatment failure due to treatment with moxifloxacin.
To understand the long-term Mycoplasma infection, it was found that antibodies from multiple myeloma patients' blood were recognised by M.
Methodology While the concept of using DNA sequence divergence for species discrimination has been reported earlier, Hebert et al.
parietina sustains consistent growth patterns regardless of nitrogen concentration, allowing it to thrive in agricultural areas and urban centers.
In rats, the oncogenic SV40 large T antigen was used to establish a brain tumor model for primitive neuroectodermal tumor and medulloblastoma.
Reyniers, early work at LOBUND focused on obtaining gnotobiotes by sterilizing animals and maintaining the animals using high-pressure steam sterilized steel isolators; however, later work at the institute shifted the focus of the field towards establishing colonies of animals born germ-free.
History 3D cell culturing by magnetic levitation method (MLM) was developed with collaboration between scientists at Rice University and University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in 2008.
The microscopic observations of these cells showed characteristics of the micro-algae, showing (among other things) the presence of a violet color after treatment with iodine, revealing the presence of starch, diagnosis of photosynthetic activity.
"Structural characterization of the K antigens from Rhizobium fredii USDA257: evidence for a common structural motif, with strain-specific variation, in the capsular polysaccharides of Rhizobium spp".
Unlike the hydrophilic outer cortex, which absorbs water, the fungal hyphae are coated with a hydrophobic barrier, ensuring continuous gas exchange even in rain or high humidity.
Binding the first three initiates early expression, binding the last three initiates late expression.
This evidence can support why malnourished children who are infected with EAEC and live in poor conditions develop mucoid stools and prolonged diarrhea.
In this particular situation, the OmpR-P complex binds cooperatively to F1, F2 and F3 activator sites of ompF gene and upregulates its transcription.
FixK1 mutants are unable to respire from nitrogen due to a defective catatylic copper subunit (Cu-z) in nosRZDFYLX.
Water is pumped through this house and minute food particles are filtered out of the water and then transferred into the mouth.
They are used as a laboratory model system for the study of the function and pathology of endothelial cells (e.g., atherosclerosis).
Since many cell lines used in research have been misidentified or contaminated, the Cellosaurus keeps track of problematic cell lines, including all those listed in the International Cell Line Authentication Committee (ICLAC) tables.
Its optimal growth temperature is 25–27 °C (77–81 °F) and can complete its life cycle in 7 to 11 days under laboratory conditions.
However, sea urchins (called uutuk in Alutiiq) are commonly eaten by the Alaska Native population around Kodiak Island.
On the Pacific Coast of North America, Strongylocentrotus franciscanus was praised by Euell Gibbons; Strongylocentrotus purpuratus is also eaten.
Cell culture assays are standardized by ASTM, ISO, and BSI (British Standards Institution.) See also Microphysiometry == References ==
YEASTRACT provides a set of queries to search and retrieve important biological information from the gathered data and to predict transcription regulation networks in yeast from data emerging from gene-by-gene analysis or global approaches.
The Hymenoptera Genome Database (HGD) is a comprehensive resource supporting genomics of Hymenoptera.
The recombinant Φ6 RdRP is highly active in vitro, possesses RNA replication and transcription activities, and is capable of using both homologous and heterologous RNA molecules as templates.
A ΔPaKu70 strain can be achieved by transforming protoplasts with linear DNA that flanks the PaKu70 gene along with an antibiotic cassette and then selecting for strains and verifying by PCR.
More recently, a study on In vitro generation of type-II pneumocytes initiated from human CD34(+) stem cells has been demonstrated the air-liquid interface cell culture method precisely.
Weidner, S.; Becker, A.; Bonilla, I.; Jaenicke, S.; Lloret, J.; Margaret, I.; Puhler, A.; Ruiz-Sainz, J.
Nutrients modulate the production of colanic acid with maximal production occurring when glucose and proline are used as carbon and nitrogen sources.
It was first collected on the north coast of Australia by Benjamin Bynoe on a voyage of HMS Beagle in 1837.
The protein is composed of a short N-terminal tail in the periplasm, two transmembrane regions with an intervening periplasmic loop, and a cytoplasmic domain containing the autophosphorylated histidine residue, which is located in a dimeric four-helix bundle.
DNA barcoding involves specific targeting of gene regions that are found and conserved in most animal species, but have high variation between members of different species.
roscoffensis mucus (such as the mucus of other photosymbiotic animals such as corals) harbor specific bacterial populations expressing DMSP-lyases.
The end of this core is in contact with the wheel complex and the wheel complex contains the proteins MG219, MG200, MG386, and MG491 which aid in the gliding motility of the bacteria.
Vascular simulation with stem cells By facilitating the assembly of different populations of cells using the MLM, consistent generation of organoids, termed adipospheres, capable of simulating the complex intercellular interactions of endogenous white adipose tissue (WAT) can be achieved.
The pipeline collects many measurements of viability, fertility, body weight, infection, hearing, morphology, haematology, behaviour, blood chemistry and immunity and compares them to wild type controls using a statistical mixed model.
Reproduction and development Platynereis dumerilii is dioecious, that means it has two separate sexes.
EnvZ is a histidine kinase which also possesses a cytoplasmic osmosensory domain, and OmpR is its corresponding response regulator protein.
In response to stress, the activated prophage is excised from the DNA of the host cell by one of the newly expressed gene products and enters its lytic pathway.
In the GAL4/UAS system, the Gal4 protein and Gal4 upstream activating region (UAS) are used to study the gene expression and function in organisms such as the fruit fly.
In particular, EAEC are reported as the second most common cause of traveler's diarrhea, second only to Enterotoxigenic E.
SV40 then exploits components of endoplasmic-reticulum-associated protein degradation machinery to penetrate the ER membrane and get extracted into the cytosol.
This would be selected for because the phage can now lie dormant in the bacterium until it falls on better times, and so the phage can create more copies of itself with the additional resources available and with the more likely proximity of further infectable cells.
Graphical displays Genetic maps contain information on markers (SSR, RFLP, SNP, etc.), genes, and biparental and Genome-wide Association Study (GWAS) Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL).
Beneath the medulla, there is a basal layer, approximately 15 μm thick, of compact dark brown cells that elongate upward and merge with the medullary hyphae.
The nucleotide sequences of the promoter and coding regions for Yeast genes were obtained from Regulatory Sequence Analysis Tools (RSAT).
In medicine, adult stem cells are mostly commonly used in bone marrow transplants to treat many bone and blood cancers as well as some autoimmune diseases.
Accessing the database The ECMDB's content may be explored or searched using a variety of database-specific tools.
These not only give a visual clue as to where these genes are expressed, but also how many of them are expressed in the same vicinity, as the darker regions of the heat map correlate to a higher expressed gene count.
The taxonomic position of certain populations, including some in China, Laos and east Korea, is unclear and require further study.
Gnotobiotes are used as a controlled environment in which to study host anatomy and physiology, the specific symbiotic interactions between a host and specific microorganisms, and the impacts of chemicals on the host and its microbiota.
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Guidelines on Human Stem Cell Research, effective July 7, 2009, implemented the Executive Order 13505 by establishing criteria which hESC lines must meet to be approved for funding.
Isolation Organs with epithelial cells are isolated (dissected) and placed in PBS to clean any impurities and these isolated organs are digested using trypsin.
In theory, ovarian tissue culture is a safer method to produce mature oocytes for fertilisation in these patients.
Research Φ6 has been studied as a model to understand how segmented RNA viruses package their genomes, its structure has been studied by scientists interested in lipid-containing bacteriophages, and it has been used as a model organism to test evolutionary theory such as Muller's ratchet.
Categorizing genes as images does not only allow for visualization in understanding the influence of the gene, but also contrasting the patterns between multiple different genes.
Within that broad classification, which has three groups, taxonomy studies using DNA sequencing indicate that B.
Moreover, new methods using egg extracts revealed novel, important targets of the Wnt/GSK3 destruction complex.
Internal The phylogeny of the sea urchins is as follows: The phylogenetic study from 2022 presents a different topology of the Euechinoidea phylogenetic tree.
Corollas are deciduous, relatively large (tube-throat 8–42 mm (0.3–1.7 in) long), and strongly red to purplish, magentarose, pink, or white, rarely yellow.
Therefore, ovarian culture systems have become increasingly widely used in reproductive biology and toxicology.
References External links Cellosaurus Introductory video on the Cellosaurus GitHub directory of Cellosaurus Record in FAIRsharing.org Record in Identifiers.org
Upon searching for images (with a gene name, PubMed ID, image ID or certain keywords), a series of GEMs are displayed from the two databases of the gene's inclusion in descending stages and views of the embryo.
Macroinvertebrates within the same system may be residents from several months to multiple years, depending on the lifespan of each organism.
Users that independently identify data for inclusion into the database can contact SoyBase directly.
genitalium made it the organism of choice in The Minimal Genome Project, a study to find the smallest set of genetic material necessary to sustain life.
It has the typical chordate body plan, it is simple to keep and breed in the laboratory, it produces large numbers of eggs and the generation time is only four days at 20 °C (68 °F).
Humanized gnotobiotic mice, or gnotobiotic mice introduced to human intestinal microorganisms by fecal microbiota transplant with human feces, are used in the context of studying gut microbiota and their relationship with host cancers, immune system, and nutrition.
In her 1968 monograph on Antarctic lichens, Elke Mackenzie supported Darbishire's placement in Buellia, largely because of the lecideine structure of the mature apothecia, wherein the disc lacks a thalline margin.
Domains Two executive domains, DNA binding and activation domains, provide key function of the Gal4 protein conforming to most of the transcription factors.
The system also provides a useful mechanism for grouping a list of genes (for instance a set of genes with similar expression profiles as revealed by microarray analysis) based on their regulatory associations with known transcription factors.
Other genome annotations in this viewer include epigenetic data such as DNA methylation and gene expression data of various soybean strains subjected to different treatments and from different soybean tissues/cultivars.
patens is an excellent model in which to analyze repair of DNA damages in plants by the homologous recombination pathway.
See also International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium SHIRPA References External links The Sanger Mouse Portal, containing all MGP data The MGP Biomart, for extracting phenotypic data
peregrinus (Scotland) Erythranthe regni G.L.Nesom Erythranthe scouleri (Hook.) G.L.Nesom Erythranthe sookensis B.G.
Ceratopteris richardii is a fern species belonging to the genus Ceratopteris, one of only two genera of the subfamily Parkerioideae of the family Pteridaceae.
In addition, recent studies confirmed that himedaka have been introduced into many local regions by artificial release.
Certain classifications and locations of expression of genes can also be searched within the BDGP and Fly-FISH databases to gain similar results without specifying a particular gene to begin with.
Protocol The protocol for air-liquid interface culture relies on two key steps: isolation of the epithelial cells from an organism, and culture of those cells.
Because of their ease of host infection there is interest in their genetics and the symbiotic role in host infection and nodule formation.
Culture conditions such as the cell growth medium and surface on which cells are grown vary widely depending on the specific stem cell line.
History SoyBase was instituted by the Corn Insects and Corn Genetics Research Unit (CICGRU) in Ames, Iowa as a central repository for the soybean genetics community's published information.
However, it does not enhance bacterial adhesion, but instead blocks the establishment of specific binding between bacteria and the underlying substrate.
Variable in height and habit, the species may be erect and up to 1.5 metres (59.1 in) or sprawling out no taller than 200 millimetres (7.9 in).
When fungal spores germinate, they initially form preliminary associations with common free-living algae in their vicinity.
gracilis is separated from other similar long Fragilaria taxa, and can be identified by both its rbcL barcode, and by using light microscopy (LM).
In just the last few years, Xenopus embryos have provided crucial insights into the mechanisms of TGF-beta and Wnt signal transduction.
Despite both gametes retaining their flagella, only one flagellum is actively involved in propulsion.
The stem of Erythranthe can be either smooth or hairy, and this is known in a few species to be a trait determined by a simple allelic difference.
Each metabolite entry in the ECMDB contains more than 80 data fields with approximately 65% of the information being devoted to chemical data and the other 35% of the information devoted to enzymatic or biochemical data.
Cavanaugh and is cited for making some of the most notable achievements in the field of gnotobiotic research.
It is one of about 25 lichen species that occur circumpolar in coastal areas and extend inland to nunataks and mountains near the South Pole.
Worms that make L-Cry protein are better able to detect appropriate light conditions and synchronize the release of gametes.
Due to modernization of rice fields and irrigation canals, optimal places for medaka reproduction are massively decreasing.
These knockout mosses are used to produce complex biopharmaceuticals in a process called molecular farming.
briandeer.com, report from The Sunday Times on a UK outbreak, May 17, 1998 CBS5 report on September 2006 outbreak
One of the defining characteristics of the lichen is a textured surface with deep cracks, creating the appearance of radiating lobes.
Transmission is via the fecal–oral route, and most illness has been through distribution of contaminated raw leaf green vegetables, undercooked meat and raw milk.
The author of this study hypothesized that animals, moving "above" the sandy substrate, would also receive more light by reflecting light rays, taking advantage of more photosynthesis and hence nutrient transfer for the worm.
In this way it is possible to restrict the search to only return results for those items associated with E.
Within the 21st century, gnotobiotic model systems have become an important tool for investigating interactions between host organisms and their commensal microbiota, as they allow for researchers to investigate specific microbes in a highly controlled host system.
The resulting material is chopped finely in media and individual isolated cell samples are placed in respectively marked microcentrifuge tubes, and shaken at 37 °C for 30 – 40 minutes.
These characters are also in agreement with Østrup's original description of 1910 of almost linear valves, and Tuji's observation of the type material, describing the striae as “being parallel throughout”, with SEM pictures showing mainly opposite striae.
It can also be adopted for WAT transplantation applications and aid other approaches to WAT-based cell therapy.
In 2015, the costs of maintaining gnotobiotic mice cages was greater than 4 times the cost of maintaining those of non-gnotobiotic mice, creating a challenge for establishing and maintaining facilities using typical funding sources, such as federal grants from institutions like the NIH.
Furthermore, patient-specific iPSC cell lines can be generated—that is, cell lines that are genetically matched to an individual.
The four proteins translated from the large segment spontaneously assemble into procapsids, which then package a large segment sense strand, polymerizing its complement during entry through the P2 polymerase-containing vertices.
PpRAD51, a protein at the core of the homologous recombination repair reaction, is required to preserve genome integrity in P.
roscoffensis, worms are able to assimilate significant amounts of nitrate depending on the exposure and intensity of light.
Human disease The hypothesis that SV40 might cause cancer in humans was a particularly controversial area of research, fuelled by the historical contamination of some batches of polio vaccine with SV40 in the 1950s and 1960s.
Cell growth/differentiation In modeling the pseudostratified epithelium in vitro, more cellular studies have been performed in order to determine the nature of the cells – their differentiation pathways, their growth mechanism, and their repair/response mechanism in the state of post-injury.
Overview 3D cell culture methods have been developed to enable research into the behavior of cells in an environment that represents their interactions in-vivo more accurately.
In yeast, Gal4 is by default repressed by Gal80, and activated in the presence of galactose as Gal3 binds away Gal80.
Many components of the ECMDB are fully downloadable, including most of textual data, chemical structures and sequence data.
Distribution Chlamydomonas moewusii is commonly found in freshwater and soil environments worldwide.
Whole ovarian culture The culture of intact ovaries supports the formation and development of primordial follicles.
richardii in genetic research studies has been valuable to understanding fern and plant evolution as a whole, and in 2019 "C-fern" became the first homosporous fern to have its genome partially assembled, thus acting as a reference genome to which other ferns can be compared.
FlyExpress has a primary function of searching between images for similar expression patterns using a specified spatial profile via the Basic Expression Search Tool for Images (or BESTi), bringing up all images and genes that fit the criteria of the pattern.
Cell culture evaluations are the precursor to whole animal studies and are a way to determine if significant cytotoxicity exists for the given material.
While some cells remain intact, they often suffer morphological damage (including shrunken chloroplasts and enlarged cell wall-to-membrane distances), leaving it unclear whether surviving photobionts can effectively establish new lichens without viable fungal spores or hyphae.
Behaviour Every three or four hours, Oikopleura dioica creates a mucus net "house" which surrounds its body.
It also determines if the quantity is sufficient to kill cells, either directly or indirectly, through the inhibition of cell metabolic pathways.
A dynein motor complex adaptor, BICD2, disassembles the virion further, before components of the LINC complex target the virion to the nuclear membrane for subsequent entry.
Fields often become contaminated with the bacterium through irrigation processes or contaminated water naturally entering the soil.
The use of "C-Fern" is facilitated by the fact that it grows readily in a cell-culture dish on agar media, reaching sexual maturity within 2–3 weeks of spore inoculation, with motile sperm cells being visible at this time.
Cows' digestive tracts lack the Shiga toxin receptor globotriaosylceramide, and thus can be asymptomatic carriers of the bacterium.
About 40 organizations in the United States and 82 foreign educational institutions access SoyBase yearly.
The ovaries of young mice (19–23 days) are removed and halved, and follicles are identified under a microscope.
The mushroom bodies in annelids resemble those in insects by anatomy, morphology and gene expression.
Description The herbaceous plant is found amongst rocks on hills and cliffs throughout the northern regions of Australia.
Genus members are also found in Baja California, Alaska, British Columbia, Nevada, Utah, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico, and to a lesser extent the midwestern states, northeastern states, Canada, and Latin America.
This small (up to about 3.6 cm or 1.4 in) native of Japan is a denizen of rice paddies, marshes, ponds, slow-moving streams and tide pools.
The cirri also sense light: When they are shaded, the worm retreats rapidly into its tube to protect them.
The first germ-free rat colony was generated and maintained using a steam sterilized isolator in 1946 by Swedish scientist Bengt Gustafsson.
The Gal4 protein interacts also with other mediators of transcription as are Tra1, TAF9, and SAGA/MED15 complex.
Its scope includes immortalised cell lines, naturally immortal cell lines (example: embryonic stem cells) and finite life cell lines when those are distributed and used widely.
When suspensions containing 'plus' and 'minus' gametes are mixed under light, they form clumps that eventually separate into pairs after a few minutes.
It is very abundant in surface waters but in colder seas is replaced by Oikopleura vanhoeffeni and Oikopleura labradoriensis.
The chemical data includes more than 2700 metabolite structures with detailed metabolite descriptions along with nearly 5000 NMR, GC-MS and LC-MS spectra corresponding to these metabolites.
DNA metabarcoding is a method that consists of the same workflow as DNA barcoding, distinguished by the use of high-throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies.
Individual cells are typically small, around 20 micrometers in diameter, and have a spherical to ovoid shape.
Stress can be from starvation, poisons (like antibiotics), or other factors that can damage or destroy the host.
Lack of viv increased life span in days by a factor of 2.3 compared to the wild type and lack of i by 1.6.
EAEC has been associated with many symptoms such as diarrhea in some individuals and intestinal colonization in others.
This protein represents a large fungal family of transcription factors, Gal4 family, which includes over 50 members in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae e.g.
The Cellosaurus encyclopedia is widely recognized as an authoritative source for cell line information, providing unique identifiers and as source of curated information.
References External links Human Umbilical Artery Endothelial Cells(HUVEC) Catalog #8010 at ScienCell Research Laboratories, inc.
Recently, oocytes were used recently to study the biochemical mechanisms of caspase-2 activation; importantly, this mechanism turns out to be conserved in mammals.
This refers to the in vitro assessment of a material to determine whether it releases toxic chemicals in the cell.
Like all cultures, diagnosis is time-consuming with this method; swifter diagnosis is possible using quick E.
The colanic acid itself is observed as amorphous, white, and fibrous and is water-soluble as well as soluble in dilute salt solutions.
Morphology Chlamydomonas moewusii is a unicellular organism with a characteristic chloroplast-containing cell.
Gnotobiotic animals are typically born under aseptic conditions, which may include removal from the mother by Caesarean section followed by immediate transfer of the newborn to an isolator where all incoming air, food and water is sterilized.
High osmolarity response In the event of high medium osmolarity, EnvZ actively undergoes auto-phosphorylation and then efficiently transfers its phosphoryl groups to the N-terminal receiver domain of OmpR through EnvZ-OmpR complex formation.
Monilophytes are generally studied far less than other groups of plants and a full genome sequence is not yet available, however due to the development of "C-Fern" research into fern biology has been more prevalent and C.
Likewise, the EnvZ-OmpR pair is involved in tripeptide permease system that is completely free of osmotic control.
The data is searchable via sequence, gene symbol and various synonyms (as used in different publications).
Some advantages of gnotobiotic mice and rat systems include the uniformity of the organism, historical prevalence, and established system-specific methods, as well as the ability to obtain reliable gnotobiotic mice and rats commercially.
When an external magnetic field is applied through the drive, it causes the cell culture mixture, still containing the magnetic nanoparticles, to levitate within the petri dish.
To obtain gnotobiotic plants, researchers sterilize seeds using chemical agents (e.g., ethanol, sodium hypochlorite (bleach), hydrogen peroxide) on the surface of the seed.
parietina can form several haustoria per algal cell, with each haustorium developed by either a single hypha or multiple fungal hyphae working together, enhancing the efficiency of the symbiotic relationship.
Individual freshwater invertebrate species, often merged to a higher taxonomic level for biomonitoring purposes, can differ substantially in their tolerance to stressors and respond in more complex ways than observed at genus level.
129, doi:10.1136/bjo.76.3.129, PMC 504187, PMID 1540552 Davis, B T (1982), "The formative years of Sir William Bowman, F.
MacArthur assisted Malcolm Bancroft Davis, chief of Division of Horticulture for the Dominion Department of Agriculture until 1955, who conducted research on the preservation of fruits and vegetables by freezing and gas storage of apples.
Afterwards, he worked as an intern at the Charité, and from 1839 to 1843, served as an assistant and prosector at the University of Berlin.
Being a keen botanist, he was provided with his own set of keys to the Cambridge University Botanic Garden.
He examined neurons and classified them based on their lengths, the shapes of dendrites, the positions of nuclei and their location within ganglia.
(Edward) Nevill "E.N." Willmer, FRS (15 August 1902 – 8 April 2001) was a British academic who was Professor of Histology at Cambridge University from 1966-69.
In 1986, the Lund team obtained permission to use tissue derived from aborted human fetuses in a series of open-label clinical trials in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Osservazioni istologiche intorno alla terminazione delle fibre nervose motive ne' muscoli striati delle torpedini, del topo casalingo e del ratto albino condizionati col doppio cloruro d'oro e cadmio, ibid., IV (1882), pp.
While in Turin, Levi tutored three students who later won the Nobel Prize: Salvador Luria, Renato Dulbecco and Rita Levi-Montalcini.
He then studied at the Universities of Liège and Bologna and became a lecturer at the University of Modena from 1912 to 1916.
Harry Eltringham FRS (18 May 1873, South Shields – 26 November 1941, Stroud) was an English histologist and entomologist who specialised in Lepidoptera.
He discovered the nature and origin of parathyroid glands and pioneered research on chromaffin cells and sympathetic paraganglia.
Due to his Jewish origin, he was expelled from Deutsche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und Künste für die Tschechoslowakische Republik in 1939 and transported to Theresienstadt Ghetto in Terezín in 1943.
He is known for his early description of Helicobacter pylori (1892), the bacteria that is responsible for peptic ulcer disease (although this fact was not generally accepted until the 1990s).
Jorge Cervós-Navarro (vel Jordi Cervós i Navarro; 9 January 1930 – 14 November 2021) was a Spanish pathologist, histologist, and neuroscientist.
The second symposium titled, New Opportunities for NIH-CSIC Collaboration, was held at the Instituto Cajal in 2017.
He studied at the universities of Munich and Berlin, then furthered his education in London and Paris.
In 1927 he joined the veterinary faculty at Moscow and in 1929 joined the First Moscow State Medical University.
In the recognition of Fritiof Sjöstrand's contribution to the development of electron microscopy, the Annual Sjöstrand Lecture series was set up in 2018 in Sweden.
Born into an old untitled noble family of Polish origin, he was the second son of Konstantin Petrovich Kulchitsky (b.
Lepidopterorum Catalogus 11:1-65 with Karl Jordan (1913) and On specific and mimetic relationships in the genus Heliconius.
This method, which he improved, was central to his work, allowing him to turn his attention to the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord), in which neurons are so densely intertwined that standard microscopic inspection would be nearly impossible.
This law describes the typical anatomical relationship of two ureters in a duplicated renal collecting system, as well as the resulting patterns of hydronephrosis, obstruction, and reflux.
Project Encephalon organised Cajal Week to celebrate his 169th birth anniversary from 1 May to 7 May 2021.
As a recognized leader in bone histology, he evaluates drafts regularly for several journals and serves on the editorial board (as Reviewing Editor) of the Comptes Rendus Palevol of the Académie des sciences (France).
Biography Willmer was born in Birkenhead in 1902 to a cotton broker named Arthur Washington Willmer and his wife Janet.
He trained Russian scientists such as Vladimir Bekhterev, Babukin, Yakulovich and Doinnikov in this specialty, but never went to visit his colleagues from Western Europe.
After his fathers death in 1845, he began a teaching career to support himself, concurrently studying medicine under Joseph Sargent.
Giuseppe Levi (14 October 1872 – 3 February 1965) was an Italian anatomist and histologist, professor of human anatomy (since 1916) at the universities of Sassari, Palermo and Turin.
As a professor at the University of Würzburg, he developed a leading school of histology and embryology.
He emigrated to the UK, where he died on 15 August 1940 in the Greater London area at 71 years of age.
He studied medicine at the Collège de France under Louis-Antoine Ranvier (1835–1922) and Louis-Charles Malassez (1842–1909) where he learned histological techniques and their correlation to other medical disciplines.
Among his written works was a comparative diagnostic atlas of skin diseases called Vergleichend-diagnostischer Atlas der Hautkrankheiten und der Syphilide.
His name is lent to the eponymous "Reichert's cartilage", described as a cartilaginous structure in the second branchial arch from which develop the temporal styloid processes, the stylohyoid ligaments, and the lesser cornua of the hyoid bone.
He founded the Russian Archives of Anatomy, Histology and Embryology (Russian: архив анатомии, гистологии и эмбриологии).
In the early part of the 20th century he produced the earliest films of mitosis in living cells via "microscopic movies".
From the age of 16, he often accompanied and assisted his father during patient visits at the Massachusetts General Hospital.
821–830, e 2 tavole di 24figure - Observations involving motor nerve terminations in the striated muscle of torpedo fish, etc.
Member of the Council of the International Society of Neuropathology and Executive President of the German Society of Neuropathology and Neuroanatomy.
The main challenge was to produce sufficiently thin samples, and Sjöstrand's method for producing ultrathin tissue samples was published in Nature in 1943.
Fritiof Stig Sjöstrand (5 November 1912 – 6 April 2011) was a Swedish physician and histologist born in Stockholm.
Other significant work by Bizzozero included research of haematopoiesis in the bone marrow, studies involving phagocytosis in the eye, and the identification of desmosomes (nodes of Bizzozero), structures that he first discovered in the stratum spinosum of epidermis.
1827), a naval officer, and his wife, Elizaveta Prokofyevna Pavlova, daughter of a Colonel in Russian Imperial army.
Despite lacking a doctorate, Burnett had a significant enough reputation to be listed as a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1848.
The eponymous "Bielschowsky silver stain" technique was an improvement on the method developed by Ramon y Cajal (1852–1934).
Atlas der allgemeinen thierischen Gewebelehre, 1861 (with Theodor von Hessling and Joseph Albert) – Atlas of general animal histology.
Dogel lived and worked in isolation, rarely but authoritatively publishing lengthy and richly illustrated articles.
He worked with scientists researching the control of the blowfly and prickly pear in Queensland, and was involved in the campaign to eradicate hookworm.
In the following years, Mayzel continued his research and published more papers, sometimes illustrating them on his own.
de Galantha's father returned to serve in the army and was killed when the Russian Army invaded Hungary.
309–340, 1885 Bibliography Dorlands's Medical Dictionary, Definition of Malassezia species & Cell rests Gies, W.
While observing epithelium regeneration, he noticed that nuclei of some of the newly formed cells feature unknown to him grains and fibers.
Education and Professorship He studied medicine in Würzburg, where in 1869 he became a member of the Corps Bavaria Würzburg.
In 1948, the new Communist Romanian authorities allowed him to remain as an "honorary titular member".
She performed this research while employed by the federal government of Canada's Department of Agriculture at the Central Experimental Farm in Ottawa, Ontario.
Biography Santiago Ramón y Cajal was born on 1 May 1852, in the town of Petilla de Aragón, Navarre, Spain.
He was an elected a Fellow of the Royal Entomological Society (President 1931-32) and in May 1930 the Royal Society.
Paris 1891; 2nd edition, 1900 Manuel des travaux pratiques d'histologie, Paris 1897 Conférences d'histologie appliquée sur les muqueuses, Paris 1905 Les pères de la biologie, Paris 1905 Les nouveaux traitements dans les malades nerveuses, with A.
Über ein in den Mägen des Rindes Vorkommendes Epiphyt 1858 - Anatomische Beobachtungen über Trematoden, 1858 - Anatomical observations on trematodes.
Alfred Kohn, professor histologie na Nĕmecké Univerzitĕ v Praze [Alfred Kohn, professor of histology at German University in Prague].
Lamarckian inheritance Similarly, his experiments with Wilfred Eade Agar to test William McDougall's supposed demonstration of Lamarckian inheritance of training in rats were negative and showed the inadequacy of McDougall's controls, the first results being published in 1935.
In 1841 he obtained his doctorate in Vienna, and subsequently practiced medicine in Ischl and Salzburg.
He was chef du laboratoire at the medical clinic in the Hôtel-Dieu de Paris, and director of the histological laboratory at the École des Hautes Etudes.
Annica Dahlström (born 1941) is a Swedish physician and Professor Emerita of Histology and Neuroscience at the Department of Medical Chemistry and Cell Biology at University of Gothenburg.
Sur l’existence d’amas épithéliaux autour de la racine des dents chez l’homme adulte et a l’état normal (débris épithéliaux paradentaires.
In 1889, he qualified as a lecturer of comparative anatomy, and in 1912, was appointed an associate professor to the museum of pathology at the University of Berlin.
The youngest of his five children, Roger, later known as Syd, and Rosemary, were 15 and 14 years old respectively.
Saul olin – nauji da ai histologijos technikoje (Sun herbs as a source of a new type of dyes used in histology) Medicina (Kaunas); 1930.
Robert Meyer (11 January 1864, in Hanover – 12 December 1947, in Minneapolis) was a German pathologist.
External links The Evolution of Dermatology- The American Experience by Jag Bhagwan Digitized periodical (B41.1) for the B'nai B'rith humanitarian association, edited by Salomon Ehrmann
Eber Landau (8 November 1878 – 30 October 1959) was a Baltic German-Swiss anatomist and histologist.
"Ueber die Visceralbogen der Wirbelthiere im Allgemeinen und deren Metamorphosen bei den Vögeln und Säugethieren".
(Digital 16th edition from 1915 by the University and State Library Düsseldorf) Stöhr's work was translated into English, and published as: "Text-book of histology, including the microscopical technique", (1898).
Mathematisch-naturwissenschaftliche Classe, Anatomie, 1876, 74: 281–307 References Sigmund Mayer @ the Jewish Encyclopedia, retrieved 5 April 2009.
She was Professor of Histology and Neuroscience at University of Gothenburg from 1983 until her 2008 retirement.
He supported the idea of trophic effects and suggested that synapses helped in independence of the neurons.
Pol André Bouin (11 June 1870 – 5 February 1962) was a French histologist and reproductive endocrinologist.
In addition, her travels to hospitals and laboratories across the country allowed her access to new techniques, methods and ideas in microscopy and histology.
Throughout his career, he conducted numerous experiments, particularly in the field of reproductive endocrinology.
Career Björklund started as a research student in the laboratory of Bengt Falck, the co-inventor of the Falck-Hillarp histofluorescence method for the visualization of monoamine-containing neurons in the brain, and defended his doctoral thesis at Lund University, Sweden, in 1969.
In 1913, Landau moved to the University of Bern as an associate professor, shortly afterwards relocating to Paris, where he conducted neurological research under the directorship of Joseph Jules Dejerine (1849-1917).
Academic Press, 1995, San Diego, ISBN 9780121652500 Cerebral Microcirculation and Metabolism Neuropathology and Neuropharmacology See also Pathology List of pathologists == References ==
MacArthur became well known for her leadership of Canadian research into dehydration, which included fundamental research on methods for determining the inactivation of enzymes in plant tissues prior to dehydration.
External links Works by Giulio Bizzozero at Open Library A brief biography Archived 2012-04-25 at the Wayback Machine
In 1938 she accepted a position as an agricultural scientist, Horticulture Division, at the Central Experimental Farm in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
From 1890 to 1894 he was a medical practitioner in the community of Dedeleben, and afterwards worked as assistant to gynecologist Johann Veit in Berlin.
In 1870 he commissioned Arts and Crafts architect Philip Webb to rebuild Joldwynds, Bowman's house in Holmbury St Mary, Surrey.
In 1931 he subscribed to the oath of allegiance to the Fascist regime imposed to university professors.
He specialized in the field of syphilology, and is remembered for his research involving the parasite Spirochaetae pallida (the causative agent of syphilis), and its spread throughout the human body.
Anders Björklund (born 11 July 1945) is a Swedish neuroscientist and pioneer in the study of cell- and gene-based reparative and neuroprotective mechanisms in the brain.
He became a demonstrator at Manchester University before being elected a Fellow of Clare College in 1936.
Along with American physiologist William Henry Howell (1860–1945), the Howell-Jolly bodies are named; which are 1-2 μm granules seen in erythrocytes (red-blood cells).
Lavrentiev was born in Kazan where, raised by his mother Vera Vasilievna née Varaksina alone, he went to school (1901-1908) before entering Kazan University.
She was fluent in French and German, and had a special music and artist education (played the piano, sang and drew).
He presented his research to a wider public during various medical conferences in Kraków, Berlin, Prague, Paris, London, Rome, and Madrid.
He is also interested in life history and population dynamics of exploited or threatened reptile taxa, especially among Varanidae and Crocodilia.
Ueber den Bau der Cetaceenhaut, 1899 - On the construction of whaleskin Lehrbuch der mikroskopischen Technik, 1907 - Textbook of microscopic technique.
Selected writings Die Ranvier'schen Einschnüringen Lautermann'schen Einkerbungen, 1879 (dissertation).
References Bibliography Andrea Grignolio (ed.), Giuseppe Levi, «Medicina nei secoli» (Special issue: articles in Italian or in English), 2018, Vol.
He was an important member of the so-called Vienna School of Dermatology, a group founded by Ferdinand von Hebra (1816–1888).
Published works He was the author of a landmark textbook on histology and microscopic anatomy, titled Lehrbuch der Histologie und der mikroskopischen Anatomie des Menschen : mit Einschluß der mikroskopischen Technik (1887), being published over many editions.
In 2007, she published the book Könet sitter i hjärnan (The gender is in the brain), which she described as a concentrate of the last 15 years of international research on the brain and how the brain affects human behavior.
Launois published several articles in the field of histology, but is primarily known for his studies involving the pituitary gland.
In 1868, he was confirmed as an extraordinary professor, and in 1870 as an ordinary professor in the department of anatomy.
Houston In September 1943, de Galantha moved to Houston, Texas and secured a medical technologist position performing histopathological research at Baylor Medical College in the laboratory of Dr.
Karl Wilhelm Zimmermann (born 10 April 1861, Neunkirchen, Saarland; died 1935) was a German anatomist, pathologist and histologist, known for his eponymous contribution in the Zimmermann–Laband syndrome.
Although Dorner intended to compose a Flora of Hungary with his botanical colleagues József Sadler and János Heuffel, the plans never came to fruition after the death of Sadler in 1849, and the retirement of Heuffel due to ill health.
He left Birmingham in 1837 to further his training as a surgeon and attended King's College London, where he served as a prosector under Robert Bentley Todd, a Professor of physiology.
In 1845, he earned his degree in medicine and surgery in Naples, afterwards opening a medical practice in Catanzaro, where in 1855 he attained the chair of theoretical surgery and obstetrics at the royal university-school.
Bernhard Rawitz (23 August 1857, Ostrowo - 28 December 1932) was a German military physician, anatomist and zoologist.
In 1872, at the age of 26, he moved to the University of Turin, and founded the Institute of General Pathology.
He has spent his academic career at Lund University in Sweden, as professor since 1983 and as senior professor at the Wallenberg Neuroscience Center since his formal retirement in 2012.
Willmer's major work was a three-volume treatise on tissue culture, "Cells and Tissue in Culture: methods, biology and physiology" (1965).
Louis-Charles Malassez (21 September 1842 – 22 December 1909) was a French anatomist and histologist born in Nevers, department of Nièvre.
With Raoul Bensaude (1866–1938), he described multiple symmetrical lipomatosis, a disease sometimes known as "Launois-Bensaude syndrome".
Arthur Max Barrett, MD (28 July 1909 – 11 December 1961) was a British morbid anatomist and histologist at the University of Cambridge, and an honorary consulting pathologist to the United Cambridge Hospitals and to the East Anglian Regional Hospital Board.
Some of his well-known students were Heinrich Auspitz (1834–1885), Moritz Kaposi (1837–1902) and Salomon Stricker (1834–1898).
This was a significant based on an immense amount of labour that went into the process of exploring and satisfying the dietary and other requirements of cells and tissues that were grown in the laboratory.
At the same time, through these professional networks, Dorner was aware of wider innovations in science, including the theory of biological evolution developed by Charles Darwin, and the botanical research of Asa Gray.
Cléret, he described "syndrome hypophysaire adiposo-génital", known today as adiposogenital dystrophy, a disorder associated with an adenohypophysial tumour or lesions of the hypothalamus.
He survived the holocaust and helped establish histology and embryology at the University of Warsaw.
Here he served as departmental head until 1932, afterwards relocating to the University of Lausanne, where he conducted investigations in the fields of brain anatomy, neurology and neurohistology.
He was trained as a neuroanatomist and during his early postdoctoral years he carried out a series of detailed studies of the organization and projections of the monoaminergic systems in the brain, the dopaminergic projection systems in particular.
Among his interests was also urology, particularly urine analysis; in 1894, during a medical conference in Rome, he presented his own method of detecting uric acid in urine.
He discovered the chromaffin reaction of the adrenal medulla, noting that these cells stain brown when treated with chromic acid.
ISBN 9788400006983 Metabolic and Degenerative Diseases of the Central Nervous System: Pathology, Biochemistry, and Genetics Ed.
He served with the 5th Ambulance Corps during the Franco-Prussian War, afterwards returning to Paris, where he worked with distinguished physicians that included Claude Bernard, Jean-Martin Charcot and Pierre Potain.
Shortly after orders for terminating Jews in the Ghetto were issued, he escaped to the Aryan side and remained in hiding.
From 1864 to 1867, he taught human anatomy at the natural sciences faculty and histology at the medical faculty, while also delivering special courses on the anatomy of the nervous system and analytical chemistry.
Publications by Sir William Bowman Todd, Robert Bentley; Bowman, William (1857), The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, Philadelphia: Blanchard and Lea, retrieved 3 August 2008, full download available at Google Book Search.
Life and times Madame Elena Fekete de Galantha was born on 24 November 1890 in Pozsony County, Hungary an heir to the Magyar nobility, daughter of Count Johan Alexander Fekete and Amelia (von Krompholtz) de Galantha.
Mit ausführlicher Beschreibung der neuen Schnell-Essigfabrikations-Methoden nach einem wesentlich abgeäderten Verfahren, nebst einer Anweisung zur Bereitung der verschiedenen Tafel- und aromatischen Essige und zum Einmachen der Früchte.
Between 1892 and 1939, he was a professor at the University of Bucharest's morphology and zoology faculty, becoming a titular member of the Romanian Academy in 1927.
501–516, e 2 tavole di 20figure - Observations on the Descemet membrane and its endothelium, with an anatomical description of the eye of the European mole.
Mayer made several important contributions particularly concerning the physiology of the heart and vessels, respiration and intestines.
Dimitrie Voinov (June 25, 1867 – July 7, 1951) was a Romanian zoologist, histologist and cytologist.
This book, mostly referencing studies performed before 1990, has been publicly criticized for inaccuracies.
His main fields of interest include basic histological descriptions, growth dynamics as recorded in bone growth marks, and adaptation (both histological and microanatomical) of the tetrapod skeleton to a secondarily aquatic lifestyle.
Kohn was twice the dean of German Medical Faculty, and an honorary member of many scientific societies.
As a child, he was fascinated by insects and put together a collection of about one thousand named beetles, which was eventually taken in by the Queensland Museum.
In 1893 he became professor of histology at the university of Kharkiv, and was later appointed director of education in Kazan School District.
He wrote Histological and Illustrative Methods for Entomologists OCLC 03655743, The Senses of Insects, London, Methuen (1933) and on Lepidoptera Nymphalidae: Subfamily Acraeinae.
Alexander Stanislavovich Dogiel or Dogel (Russian: Александр Станиславович Догель; 1852 in Panevėžys – 1922 in Saint Petersburg), was a Russian histologist and neuroscientist.
Salomon Ehrmann (December 19, 1854 - October 24, 1926) was a Jewish-Austrian dermatologist and histologist born in the village of Ostrovec, today part of the Czech Republic.
Career Despite suffering from illness much into his later life, Burnett published more than 60 scientific articles over the course of his five-year academic career, with notable contributions to the field of histology.
Manne Siegbahn at the Nobel Institute for Physics had planned to build an electron microscope in Sweden, and Sjöstrand got involved in the project to explore its use in medical research.
The school had more than 500 students and was assisted by Professor Edward Loth and Associate Professor Bronisława Konopacka, who provided material and was supported from the Aryan side of Warsaw by Professor Witold Orłowski.
Kohn's papers covered topics including the pituitary, interstitial cells of testes, and ovaries, all of which relate to endocrinology.
See also Emil du Bois-Reymond References External links OCLC WorldCat Archived 2007-09-29 at the Wayback Machine (published works)
Justin Marie Jolly (August 6, 1870 – February 1, 1953) was a French hematologist and histologist born in Melun, Seine-et-Marne.
He was a pioneer of in vitro studies of cultured cells, and contributed to the study of the nervous system, especially on the plasticity of sensory ganglion cells.
de Gruyter, Berlin-New York, 1974 ISBN 9783110044720 Estudio al microscopio electrónico del ganglio raquídeo normal y después de la ciaticotomía Ed.
A cousin of Max Bielschowsky, Albert Bielschowsky (1847–1902), was a biographer of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.
As an anthropologist, he conducted analyses of prehistoric skulls found at Auvernier and Schweizersbild.
Manual de Anatomia Patológica General (Handbook of general Anatomical Pathology) (in Spanish) (fourth ed.).
From 1898 he was professor extraordinary, and in 1927 he was appointed ordinary professor as well as director of the anatomical institute in Bern.
Burnett eventually graduated from the Harvard Medical School in 1849 and went overseas to Europe for four months but was diagnosed with tuberculosis in Paris.
As a hygienist and bacteriologist, he helped set up waterworks and a sewerage system in Warsaw, and published numerous papers on microscopic water analysis.
Betz was the first to recognize that the cortex was functionally organized into distinct motor and sensory areas based on microscopic evidence, predating the mapping work of Korbinian Brodmann.
In 1904 he joined Oskar Vogt (1870–1959) at the neurobiological laboratory at the University of Berlin, where he remained until 1933.
Barrett’s solution of this problem was a notable advance in angiology, and helped in transferring histological observations from the art of opinion and impression into the exact science of quantitative measurement.
He was one of the first to describe chromaffin cells in the sympathetic nerve, and with Ewald Hering and Ludwig Traube, his name is associated with "Traube–Hering–Mayer waves", a phenomenon that deals with rhythmic variations in arterial blood pressure.
From 1894 to 1927 was an assistant in the anatomical institutes at Greifswald and Berlin, as well as prosector at Giessen and in Bern, Switzerland.
He studied medicine at the universities of Leipzig, Heidelberg and Strassburg, receiving his doctorate at the latter institution in 1889.
In 1865, he was named professor of microscopic anatomy at the University of Naples, and two years later served as professor of experimental physiology at the University of Parma.
He has published at least 92 papers, including 76 research papers, 10 reports on exploited or threatened species, and six popular papers.
In 1929 he demonstrated that lactation could be induced in rabbits without ovaries by administering anterior pituitary extract at a time when prolactin had not yet been identified.
Pierre-Émile Launois (24 July 1856 – 18 March 1914) was a French physician born in Moiremont, a commune in the department of Marne.
His first papers dealt with the skeletal growth marks in extant crocodilians, but very soon after that, he also tackled paleobiological issues, such as growth of an Eocene crocodilian then identified as Crocodylus cf.
In addition to his scholarly papers published in scientific journals, he made contributions to Salomon Stricker's Handbuch der Lehre von den Geweben des Menschen und der Thiere (1872) and to Ludimar Hermann's Handbuch der Physiologie (1879).
In 1897 he described the endocrine cells of the small intestine which now bear his name (Kulchitsky cells).
with Honors from Acadia University, Nova Scotia, in 1933, after attending a botany course at the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts the prior year.
Biography Early life Arthur Max Barrett was born in 1909 in the English town of Thaxted, in Essex to Arthur Samuel Barrett, a grocer and draper, and Alice Mary, daughter of Rev.
Anatomie des grosshirns, formanalytische untersuchungen, 1923 - Anatomy of the cerebrum, formal analytic investigations.
Among his over fifty scientific works published domestically and abroad are one on the "Principles of Microscopy" (Bucharest, 1900); another on spermatogenesis in Gryllotalpa gryllotalpa (Paris, 1912) and a third on the Golgi apparatus in nerve cells (Paris, 1929).
Her most cited scientific paper, "Evidence for the existence of monoamine-containing neurons in the central nervous system," was cited over 5,500 times as of 2013.
Eltringham was the author of a photograph of Edward Bagnall Poulton taken through the compound eye of a glowworm.
From 1831, he studied at the University of Konigsberg, where he was a student of embryologist Karl Ernst Baer, then continued his education at the University of Berlin under Friedrich Schlemm and Johannes Peter Müller.
Life Born in Nantwich, Cheshire, third son of a banker and amateur botanist/geologist, Bowman attended Hazelwood School near Birmingham from 1826.
In the late 19th century he journeyed to northern Norway (Tromsø, Sørvær, Trollfjord, Bear Island), where he performed studies of cetaceans.
From 1909 to 1911 he was head of the laboratory in the women's clinic at the Berlin Charité, and in 1912 succeeded Carl Arnold Ruge as chief of the pathological institute of the university women's clinic.
While in New York City, she studied fine arts at Columbia University and had an interior decorating business.
Hitchcock) as "The pathology of the teeth, with special reference to their anatomy and physiology", 1872.
Education, careers in pharmacy and teaching Initially, Dorner went to school in his hometown of Győr, up to lower secondary school.
In 1951 Professor Wilfred Agar died and Oscar Tiegs became Professor and took over as head of the Melbourne University Zoological Department.
His name also appears in Zimmermann's arch (an aborted, rudimentary arch of the embryo, supposed to explain the origin of certain vessels between the fourth aortic and the fifth arches) and Zimmermann's elementary particle (an obsolete term for blood platelet).
His major work was on the peripheral nervous system, regeneration and innervation of internal organs.
Beiträge zur Anatomie des zweibuckeligen Kameeles (Camelus bactrianus),1852 (with Franz Müller) - Contributions to the anatomy of the Bactrian camel.
Born in modern-day Ukraine, he served as a professor at Saint Vladimir University of Kiev and is most famous for the discovery of giant pyramidal neurons in the primary motor cortex, now known as Betz cells.
References External links *The Medical University of Warsaw in Iconography and Photography (2011) (includes a portrait of Zweibaum in 1949)
He conducted histological research of the blood, and is credited for design of the hemocytometer, a device used to quantitatively measure blood cells.
He studied at the Universities of Heidelberg, Giessen and Tübingen, where in 1865 he obtained his doctorate.
Selected works "Ueber den Verlauf des Lungenmagennerven in der Bauchhöhle", in: Zeitschrift für wissenschaftliche Zoologie, vol.
However, it seemed that research based on electron microscopy would be too time-consuming for a Ph.D.
"Helicobacters were discovered in Italy in 1892: An episode in the scientific life of an eclectic pathologist, Giulio Bizzozero".
Nikolai Konstantinovich Kulchitsky (Russian: Николай Константинович Кульчицкий; 16 January 1856, Kronstadt – 30 January 1925, Oxford) was a Russian anatomist and histologist, the last Minister of Education of the Russian Empire.
According to Szmodits, he married in 1845 but they remained childless, with his wife predeceasing him.
His oldest son, Franz David Bielschowsky, also emigrated to Sheffield, UK and subsequently to Dunedin, New Zealand where he pursued an eminent career in cancer research.
Erich Hintzsche, the Swiss physician and historian came under the anatomical influence of Zimmermann, who was his chief when he moved to Bern in 1928.
At the time of his death in 1956, Oscar Tiegs left a full draft of a review on the evolution of arthropoda.
Over the years, the PCF and the CCEI published seven editions of Robert Bott's Our petroleum challenge: into the 21st century under various titles.
On 23 November 2007, the energy issues were de-merged from the Ministry of Transport and climate issues were de-merged from the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Climate and Energy was created.
The main theme of the book is that the most important parts of the nuclear power debate are not technical disputes but relate to personal values, and are the legitimate province of every citizen, whether technically trained or not.
Special for Solar Power Solar heating installations need to meet certain quality standards in order to benefit from solar heating funding.
During the first week of February 1966, it became clear that Rhodesia continued to import oil by land from Portuguese Mozambique, and Prime Minister Wilson was warned that black African states could push for more urgent sanctions and raise the matter at the UN.
Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene, a member of the counterterrorism and intelligence subcommittee of the House Homeland Security Committee, stated on Twitter that "Saudi Arabia has nuclear weapons".
History The Carbon Neutrality Coalition (CNC) was founded in 2017 by 16 countries and 32 cities, inspired by Bhutan.
The team remains advised by Richard Whelove, alongside Michael Devaney of the Electrical Engineering Department.
Integrated Planning Model (IPM) The Integrated Planning Model is a long-term optimization model for power market forecasting, capacity expansion, and analysis by environmental regulators.
European Energy Certificate System (EECS) is set out in "The EECS Rules" and its supporting documents.
As opposed to national precedents set in the early 1990s, California's earlier standards for energy efficiency contributed much to these technological discoveries.
Khalid Abdulaziz Al Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Natural Resources, said that the branch of Saudi Aramco company would operate in Azerbaijan.
As in Australia there are companies including the manufacturer Fisher and Paykel that remove waste appliances and recycle them.
In March 2006, phase two of the Paris Club agreement will include an additional 34 percent debt cancellation, while Nigeria will be responsible for paying back any remaining eligible debts to the lending nations.
Negotiations on the text of the Transit Protocol began in early 2000 and a compromise text reflecting an extended discussion between the European Union and Russia was tabled for adoption at the meeting of the Energy Charter Conference on 10 December 2003.
The Ministry of Energy is the government ministry of Tanzania which is responsible for facilitating the development of the energy sectors.
According to legislation already in place, the amount of oil in the reserve could fall to as little as 238 million barrels by 2028.
made from 100% sustainable raw materials such as waste cooking oil, and marine gas oil (MGO)." As of April 2022, "ammonia, methanol and methane are viable deep sea shipping fuels, while compressed and liquid hydrogen are not", according to a World Economic Forum article.
The Canadian Energy Information Portal was launched by Statistics Canada, in partnership with Natural Resources Canada, Environment and Climate Change Canada, and the Canada Energy Regulator.
When appliances are recycled, they can be looked upon as a valuable resources; if disposed of improperly, they can be environmentally harmful and poison ecosystems.
She has lectured at the New York Museum of Modern Art, the Global Investigative Journalism Network, and Google among others.
History The Bureau of Energy Resources was established in October 2011, following a recommendation in the 2010 Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review calling on the department to create a bureau uniting diplomatic and programmatic efforts in the global production and use of energy.
ENR relies heavily on interagency agreements with the Departments of Interior, Commerce, and Treasury, as well as on contracted private-sector firms, to implement technical assistance.
In September 2019 at the UN Climate Summit, it was announced that 5 new countries were joining the coalition: Austria, Chile, Italy, Japan and Timor-Leste.
China's undeveloped dismantling and processing has led to elevated levels of toxic chemicals in and near waste appliance sites.
Achievements Power from renewables Grid-based As per Annual Report 2016-17 of Ministry, As of December 2016, the Ministry was successful in deploying a total of 50068.37 Megawatt (MW) capacity of grid-based renewable energy.
This work proceeded until October 2011, when the European Union argued that, given current developments in the international energy situation and the lack of progress in negotiations and consultations, it appeared no longer opportune to continue talks.
History According to the Decree of the President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov on July 7, 2012 "On creation of the Ministry of Energy of Turkmenistan" was the successor of the abolished department of the Ministry of Energy and Industry of Turkmenistan.
Its aim is to acknowledge good practice and raise overall professional standards within the M&V field worldwide.
History The first energy regulatory bodies of the ERRA region were established in the mid-1990s as an essential part of restructuring and reforms taking place in these countries.
Do you agree that the Bolivian State should recover ownership over all hydrocarbons at the wellhead?
As of 2019, the aviation group Airbus was testing this idea on four of its own freighters with the aim of saving up to 8,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy will head this initiative with technical support from the World Bank.
After an incident where the Greek tanker Joanna V was intercepted by HMS Plymouth, but as Plymouth was not authorised to use force, the tanker freely sailed into Beira, the British lobbied for UN authority to use force.
The Danish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities (Danish: Klima-, Energi- og Forsyningsministeriet) is a governmental agency in Denmark.
These include cylindrical sails that can be retrofitted to cargo ships (making them "rotor ships" or "Flettner ships") and can reduce fuel consumption.
Driving factors such as production or degree days also constitute streams and must be collected at intervals to match.
"Households at lower levels of income and development tend to be at the bottom of the energy ladder, using fuel that is cheap and locally available but not very clean nor efficient.
An objective of the treaty is to promote transparency and efficiency in the operation of energy markets, but it is for governments to define the structure of their domestic energy sector.
The pair had been feuding for a while, with the instigator of the January fight being the name of the Facebook page used to organize the movement.
The patrol was finally eliminated on 25 June 1975, when Mozambique gained independence from Portugal and assured Britain that it would not allow transship oil to Rhodesia.
Oil and international conflict The term "petro-aggression" has been used to describe the tendency of oil-rich states to instigate international conflicts.
Examples An example with some features of an M&T application is the ASU Campus Metabolism, which provides real-time and historic energy use and generation data for facilities of Arizona State University on a public web site.
In 2019, the name changed from the Ministry of Energy, Utilities and Climate to the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities.
Resource Planning Model (RPM) The Resource Planning Model (RPM) is owned by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
Publications See also Energy conservation Rebound effect (conservation) Microeconomic foundations of macroeconomics References External links "Ch.
The competition is based on efficiency rather than speed and awards are given to teams that use the least amount of fuel while driving on a 6-mile circuit.
At 50% capacity, a cable car causes 27 grams of CO2 per person and kilometre, a train with an electric locomotive 30 grams, a bus with a diesel engine 38.5 grams, and a car with a combustion engine even 248 grams.
In general, Jacobson has said wind, water and solar technologies can provide 100 percent of the world's energy, eliminating all fossil fuels.
It was established on 29 March 2025 as the result of a merger between the Ministry of Electricity, the Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources and the Ministry of Water Resources.
Russia High-priced oil allowed the Soviet Union to subsidize the struggling economies of the Soviet bloc for a time, and the loss of petrodollar income during the 1980s oil glut contributed to the bloc's collapse in 1989.
When the frame to be projected and the frame being projected has considerable difference a software interrupt is asserted and new chroma values for pixels and brightness values are calculated.
Certified measurement and verification professional (CMVP) is an accreditation from the Association of Energy Engineers (AEE) awarded to qualified professionals in the field of measurement and verification (M&V) within the energy industry.
At the same time, trolleytrucks would be a cost-effective way to make freight transport climate-friendly, as the electrification of motorways, at a cost of 3 million euros/km, does not represent too much of a financial outlay.
In early December, Mouraud was part of a delegation of yellow vest protesters who met with France's Prime Minister Edouard Philippe.
Jacobson, the most significant barriers to the widespread implementation of large-scale renewable energy and low carbon energy strategies, at the pace required to prevent runaway climate change, are primarily political and not technological.
Second Report (Session 2005–2006) of the Committee on Science and Technology of the UK House of Lords.
Open research questions A review identified major gaps and neglected aspects – open research questions – in the 100% RE literature.
The Energy Regulators Regional Association (ERRA) is a voluntary organization of independent energy regulatory bodies primarily from the Central European and Eurasian region, with Affiliates from Africa, Asia the Middle East and the US.
The UAE would, in return, renounce their right to enrich uranium for their civilian nuclear program.
As of 2018 according to REN21 transformation is picking up speed in the power sector, but urgent action is required in heating, cooling and transport.
See also Cabinet of Azerbaijan Petroleum industry in Azerbaijan Southern Gas Corridor Further reading "The Political Economy of Oil in Azerbaijan" Caucasus Analytical Digest No.
However it is unclear whether increasing energy consumption is a necessary precondition for economic growth, or vice versa.
Other contributions include "Defeating the Fossil Fuel Industry" in Not Too Late: Changing the Climate Story from Despair to Possibility (2023), and "Spill" in Fueling Culture: Energy, History, Politics (2017).
The members commit to implement relevant EU energy acquis communautaire, to develop an adequate regulatory framework and to liberalize their energy markets in line with the acquis under the founding Treaty.
In 2022, the AEC organized its second AEW in Cape Town, South Africa, where it launched a summit on hydrogen.
History The predecessor of the Ministry of Climate and Energy, the Ministry of Energy (Danish: Energiministeriet), was created in 1979, from the energy department of the Ministry of Trade.
For the period of 1 January to 31 December 2021, Serbia holds the presidency in office and chairs the key institutional meetings.
Implementing languages include GAMS, MathProg, MATLAB, Mathematica, Python, Pyomo, R, Fortran, Java, C, C++, and Vensim.
The Mizzou Hydrogen Car Team designs, builds and competes with an Urban Concept hydrogen fuel cell vehicle run by students at the University of Missouri in Columbia, Missouri.
These issues range from conventional natural resources law to cutting-edge intellectual property issues related to synthetic genomics and advanced materials.
Do you agree with President Carlos Mesa's policy of using gas as a strategic recourse to achieve a sovereign and viable route of access to the Pacific Ocean?
A Gas Act, with its variations, is a stock short title used internationally for legislation relating to the regulation, production, distribution, supply and use of natural gas or coal gas as a source of energy.
List India Oil and Natural Gas Commission Act 1959 (repealed 1993) Ireland Gas Regulation Act, 1920 - Act No.
Works In March 2021, the AEC published its book, African Energy Road to Recovery: How the African Energy Industry Can Reshape Itself for a Post COVID-19 Comeback.
In 2019, international shipping organizations, including the International Chamber of Shipping, proposed creating a $5 billion fund to support the research and technology necessary to cut GHG emissions.
It came into effect on May 1, 2004, and now governs the acquisition, use and disposal of mineral rights.
In 2018, the Saudi officials had staff level meetings in France and Russia where the several transactions, among the establishment of atomic foundations in Saudi Arabia, were signed as memorandum of understanding (MoU) on establishing nuclear energy sites in the country.
Both binary and multidimensional measures of energy poverty are required to establish indicators that simplify the process of measuring and tracking energy poverty globally.
This is to be invested to fund the long term decommissioning costs of EDF's eight former British Energy nuclear stations, plus certain other contracted and uncontracted nuclear liabilities relating to the assets as they arise.
The introduction of speed limits, or lowering existing speed limits, would also have an impact on greenhouse gas emissions such as CO2 (carbon dioxide) and NOx (nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide).
The TEA advocates for the use of thorium both in existing nuclear reactors and in next generation reactors.
Products requiring CEL Since the introduction of China Energy Label in 2005, more than 25 product groups have become CEL-mandatory, while additional classes are continually being added to the product catalogue.
Issue Over the 2010s GHG emissions from shipping rose by 20%, but uncertainty about regulations is delaying investment to decarbonise.
Southern Gas Corridor Due to the Southern gas corridor, gas will be transported from the Caspian region to Europe.
They were then supported from 1999 to 2008 by the US National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC), which, with the participation of USAID, arranged technical forums, meetings and study tours for mutual training and development.
Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 2002 (MPRDA) is an act of the Parliament of South Africa.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared.
The Intel DPST subsystem analyzes the image to be displayed and it uses a set of algorithms to change the chroma value of pixels while reducing the brightness of backlight simultaneously such that there is minimum perceived visual degradation.
Intel claims that display take up most power in mobile devices and reducing backlight linearly affects energy footprint.
Initially, Royal Navy ships were to shadow and question Beira-bound tankers, and were only allowed to forcibly divert a tanker away after Britain obtained permission from its flag state.
Husseini also pointed out that population growth and the emergence of China and India means oil prices are now going to be structurally higher than they have been.
This facility was a conventional room and pillar near-surface salt mine, formerly owned by Morton Salt.
Do you agree that Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos should be re-established, reclaiming state ownership of the Bolivian people's stakes in the part-privatized oil companies, so that it can take part in all stages of the hydrocarbon production chain?
Former Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman said that the Department would consider new facilities for refined products as part of an expansion of 1 to 1.5 billion barrels (160,000,000 to 240,000,000 m3).
The Thorium Energy Alliance has supported research projects at the Nanotechnology Lab at the University of Missouri–St.
The negotiations took place between the European Community on one side, and Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, FYR of Macedonia, Republic of Montenegro, Serbia, Romania, Turkey and UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo on the other side.
By focusing on the power sector, the ministry will be able to deliver it more effective management and coordination.
The Ministry of Energy (Arabic: وزارة الطاقة, romanized: Wizārat al-Ṭāqah) is a government ministry in Syria and part of the cabinet.
It also has the capability to analyze future energy systems under different public policy scenarios.
The Ministry of Energy of Azerbaijan cooperates with BP for the realization of this project in the Caspian Region.
Four Deputy Assistant Secretaries also oversee different divisions of the bureau, namely Energy Diplomacy, Energy Transformation, Energy Governance and Access, and Bureau Implementation and Coordination.
Before the agency faces the challenges of large-scale modernization of existing power generation capacity, the creation of new ones, to increase electricity export.
The International Energy Charter was signed on 20 May 2015, by 72 countries plus the EU, Euratom and ECOWAS at a Ministerial conference hosted by the government of The Netherlands.
Energy Information Administration American counterpart Notes References External links Canadian Centre for Energy Information
40) United States The Natural Gas Act of 1938 See also List of short titles Energy Law Electric or Electricity Act Petroleum Act
The CSS-5, while it has a comparatively shorter range (2,800 km (1,700 mi) ) and half the payload (1 ton) of the CSS-2, is solid-fueled, thus can be set up and placed on alert status more easily than the liquid-fueled CSS-2, and its accuracy is much greater (circular error probable of 30 meters).
Lovins and Price suggest that the personal values that make a high-energy society work are all too apparent, and that the values associated with an alternate view relate to thrift, simplicity, diversity, neighbourliness, craftsmanship, and humility.
Africa Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, and South Asia are the three regions in the world most affected by energy poverty.
The team's second vehicle, Tigergen II, operated on a single 1.2 kW Ballard fuel cell and competed in the Urban Concept category of the Shell Eco Marathon, winning first place in the hydrogen category and fourth place overall in 2011.
Of these, biomass (non-bagasse) Cogeneration consisted of 651.91 MW, Bio mass Gasifier was 186.88 MW Waste to energy was 163.35 MW, SPV Systems (of less than 1 Kilowatt (kW)) capacity was 405.54 1 MW, and the rest from micro-Hydro and Wind power.
Models often use mathematical optimization to solve for redundancy in the specification of the system.
The rise of poverty in urban centers in addition to the growing population and energy demand is driving up the cost of electricity, making energy even more inaccessible for Africa's least advantaged individuals.
This normally requires a certain survey of the building and the equipment to estimate their energy consumption level.
39/2013 Gas (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2024 New Zealand Gas Act 1992 United Kingdom This is a list of UK Public General Acts, which have a regional or national applicability.
The rules of trade only cover trade in goods, not trade in services, nor does it concern itself with intellectual property rights.
As of March 9, 2026, approximately 1.8 billion barrels (290,000,000 m3) of oil was held in strategic reserves by International Energy Agency member states.
Current Technology The body and chassis of Tigergen III is integrated as a partial-load bearing system in a partial-monocoque design.
This graph is the image of the business’ average energy performance, and conveys a lot of information: The y-intercept gives the minimal consumption in the absence of the variable (no production, zero degree-day...).
Thirdly, increased efficiency in any one bottleneck resource multiplies the use of all the companion technologies, products and services that were being restrained by it.
Continued dependence on oil production has strong support in the government: "...the petroleum policy in Norway has been supported by the largest political parties across the left-right cleavage in Norwegian politics.
Recently, also a Vienna Law Forum, Just Transition Forum and Dispute Resolution Forum have been established.
The MPRDA entrenches state power and control over the mineral and petroleum resources of the country.
Clean Tech Law contemplates a diverse set of legal and policy issues related to the development and commercialization of clean technology.
One simple example is that suburban development limited by water use can be doubled if the houses adopt water efficiency measures that cut their water demand in half.
Ukraine responded by purchasing 2,000 used fuel trucks from the EU and Turkey, along with 600 new ones.
On 14 January 2005, following the restructuring of British Energy after it required financial assistance from the government, the original agreement was terminated.
Middle East Iran In April 2006, the Fars News Agency reported that Iran was planning to create an SPR.
Targets The CEL shows the level of energy consumption and, thus, the energy efficiency of a product.
The Ministry of Petroleum and Minerals (MPM; Portuguese: Ministério do Petróleo e Minerais, Tetum: Ministériu Petróleu no Minerais) is the government department of Timor-Leste accountable for energy policy, management of mineral resources, and related matters.
Nuclear-Free Future Award Nuclear-free zone Rocky Mountain Institute Kristin Shrader-Frechette Benjamin K.
The right to use the CMVP post-nominal is granted to those who demonstrate proficiency in M&V by passing a 4-hour written exam and meeting the required academic and practical qualifications.
The trustees are also directors of the Fund as well as owning the ordinary share capital of the Fund.
In doing so, the EU member state has the right to attend the Ministerial Council, the Permanent High Level Group, the Regulatory Board and the fora and participate in the discussions in these bodies.
The work of the AIB is relevant to all electricity customers, as the Guarantee of Origin (the instrument created in the European Directive and standardised through EECS) is a cornerstone of providing reliable disclosure information on the origin of electricity supplied to consumers.
African Energy Chamber (AEC) is an energy advocacy group based in South Africa, founded in 2018 by Nj Ayuk.
The Carbon Neutrality Coalition (CNC) is a group of countries, cities and organisations which have committed to take concrete and ambitious action to achieve the aims of the Paris Agreement.
Other renewable energy systems The total number of deployment of family biogas plant was 49.40 lakhs.
In a FIP, renewable energy producers sell to the electricity market and receive a payment (premium) in addition to the market price.
Juhasz was an adjunct lecturer at Tulane University in New Orleans, which also awarded her its Monroe Fellowship.
The authors believe this forecast to be valid 'despite the large uncertainties in the available data'.
The Fund had an initial endowment of £232 million and thereafter received £4 million a quarter from British Energy, adjusted each year in line with RPI.
Shirashima Storage Facility – eight tankers (4,400,000 barrels (700,000 m3) each), total capacity 35.2 million barrels (5,600,000 m3).
The regularly updated and expanded online interactive site provides a "single point" for accessing information Canadian energy sector including energy production, consumption, international trade, transportation, prices with monthly federal and provincial statistics.
Accelerating toward terminal limits of resource utility is a form of tragedy of the commons following the equivalent of a maximum rate of depletion rather than a maximum longevity or utility principle.
In addition, the basic economics are inseparable from substantive social and ethical issues posed by these emerging technologies.
In 1994, it was merged with Ministry of the Environment and in 2005 it was detached from that ministry, to be merged with Ministry of Transport and Energy.
It is also necessary to assess what other measurements will be required to analyze the consumption appropriately.
The staff behind PIER estimates the program has also directly and indirectly created roughly 50,000 jobs since its imitation in 1996.
Activities In 2021, the AEC organized African Energy Week (AEW), which aims at diminishing energy poverty in Africa.
CalCEF is partnered with Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and according to a CalCEF press release published in December 2012, the U.S.
The authors believed that nuclear reactors were less reliable (a grossly incorrect prediction) and take longer to build, exposing them to escalated interest costs, mistimed demand forecasts, and wage pressure by unions.
Organization The bureau is headed by the Assistant Secretary of State for Energy Resources, who is appointed by the President of the United States.
The Ministry of Energy of Turkmenistan (Turkmen: Türkmenistan energetika ministrligi) is a Cabinet Ministry in the Turkmenistan.
The book outlined issues and potential solutions to oil and gas in African countries and described Africa's economic conditions during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Determining a more specific range is difficult due to the lack of certainty over the actual size of world oil reserves.
The country has a crude refining capacity of just under 1.4 million bbl/d, according to Oil & Gas Journal.
Historical CCEI The name—Canadian Centre for Energy Information (CCEI)—was previously used by a now-defunct Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP)'s in-house information centre, that was established in 2002.
See also Energy diplomacy United States Special Envoy for Eurasian Energy United States Department of Energy References External links Official website
Main incentives and laws in Sweden The Swedish licensing and legislative system is so structured that the Swedish Parliament and the Government govern through laws and regulations that are applied by national authorities that autonomously interpret and implement these laws and regulations.
According to energy blogger Ron Patterson, the peak of world oil production was probably around 2010.
Czech Republic Azerbaijan and the Czech Republic are currently working on a new inter-ministerial energy agreement.
To understand the extensive work and research put behind the Rosenfeld Effect, information presented by Dr.
Thorium is invariably associated with rare-earth elements or rare metals like niobium, tantalum and zirconium.
The more traditional legal areas of clean technology law include intellectual property, patent law, licensing, litigation, and federal and state legislative, landuse and regulatory issues.
At a national level, there are regional government authorities and county administrative boards that have the task of coordinating and implementing the targets and mandates stipulated by the national authorities.
Although the industry was not a focus of attention of the Paris Climate Accord signed in 2016, the United Nations and the IMO have discussed CO2 emissions goals and limits.
The Bush Agenda: Invading the World One Economy at a Time (2006) explored the development and application of the Bush administration's international economic agenda, with a focus on the oil industry and the role of oil in the Iraq War.
The fund is incorporated as a limited company registered in Scotland and is owned by the Nuclear Trust.
She has worked as a radio and podcast host for KGNU Radio in Boulder, Colorado, and KPFA Radio in Berkeley, California.
According to the Ministry's 2016-17 annual report, India has made significant advances in several renewable energy sectors which include, solar energy, wind power, battery energy storage system (BESS) and hydroelectricity.
See also List of petroleum ministries Politics of Timor-Leste References External links Media related to Ministry of Petroleum and Minerals (East Timor) at Wikimedia Commons Ministry of Petroleum and Minerals – official site (in English)
The sale lowered the SPR to its lowest levels in 40 years and was the largest ever release of oil from the SPR.
The label includes the product's energy efficiency class (1–5) as well as information regarding its energy consumption.
The United Nations Security Council reacted by passing Resolution 217, calling for sanctions on Rhodesia.
The Association of Issuing Bodies (AIB) promotes the use of a standardised system European Energy Certificate System (EECS), based on structures and procedures to ensure the reliable operation of international energy certificate systems.
Charrette-Labadie was in Paris around 25 November 2019 for a meeting with the government, where she served as one of the representatives of the movement.
He said "This would involve the entire nuclear fuel cycle which involves the production of yellowcake, low enriched uranium and the manufacturing of nuclear fuel both for our national use and, of course, for export." 2025 In May 2025, U.S.
References External links Nuclear Power's Global Expansion: Weighing Its Costs and Risks Archived 2015-01-12 at the Wayback Machine Nuclear-free future award
Clean tech law could also address issues and conflicts surrounding the placement of such technologies (e.g., glare from solar panels).
Fatih Birol, chief economist at the International Energy Agency, stated in 2011 that "crude oil production for the world has already peaked in 2006." Several sources in 2006 and 2007 predicted that worldwide production was at or past its maximum.
Intel DPST technology aims to adaptively reduce backlight brightness while maintaining satisfactory visual performance.
According to legislation already in place, the amount of oil in the reserve could fall to 238 million barrels by 2028 while still meeting petroleum import coverage requirements.
A vast majority of the present generation reactors are based on the original design of reactors meant to power submarines, and whose safety is ensured by several active features and standard operating practices.
The EWRA classifies e-waste by dividing the products into two categories: electronic devices and covered electronic devices.
Manufacturers of specified electronic devices are obligated to attach a CEL label to their goods to inform China-based consumers of the product's energy efficiency.
Appliance recycling is the process of dismantling scrapped home appliances to recover their parts or materials for reuse.
Annual conferences TEA has organized annual conferences since 2009, where scientific sessions and cross-cutting energy and fuel management discussions have brought together a cross-section of experts.
22-year-old Monica Piazza de Valencia, attending the Act VII Paris protest said, "We are not against deductions and taxes ...
The China Energy Label (CEL; Chinese: 中国能效标识; pinyin: zhōngguó néngxiào biāozhì) is an energy consumption label for products in China, similar to the European Union energy label.
Fears of an uprising led the Bolivian government to take measures essentially forcing the population to vote (announcing fines and other penalties for those who refused or boycotted) and warned that protesters against the referendum would be imprisoned.
Special for Wind Power There are four wind power coordinators and a national network for wind power within the area of wind power.
She also recognized that during Act II, the protest was infiltrated by extremists from both the left and right, expressing regret that the police did not take any steps to stop them.
The purpose behind the Rosenfeld effect was not only to set an example in high efficiency standards, but also to curb the threat of carbon-emissions which lead to greenhouse gases and thus further threat of global warming.
See also Mining industry of South Africa South African property law References Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002.
Stena was the first shipowner in the world to retrofit a large vessel for methanol, converting its ro-pax Stena Germanica in 2015.
History The Ministry was formed in 2017 after the preceding ministry, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, was split by President John Magufuli to improve supervision.
In recent years, under the influence of President Chavez, the Venezuelan government has reduced PdVSA's previous autonomy and amended the rules regulating the country's hydrocarbons sector.
It is responsible for developing and implementing policies concerning petroleum and related products.
The Sweden National Renewable Energy Action Plan is the National Renewable Energy Action Plan (NREAP) for Sweden.
All early Buddhist schools held that making a vow in front of a living Buddha (and receiving a prediction), just like Sakyamuni had done, was the only way to become a bodhisattva.
In the Easter Vigil a declaration of faith is integral to the party becoming Catholic, while in baptism the declaration of faith is used to reaffirm the faith of the parents and godparents, and in the name of the child-to-be-baptized, anticipating the mysteries into which they will be incorporated.
The king provided money for the sacrifices of the 150; Shimon provided no money as the vows of his 150 were already nullified.
Fulfillment of the vows On March 15, 1493, after having touched down at the Azores and at Lisbon, the Niña arrived on the banks of the Río Tinto in the Spanish province of Huelva.
(The previous five proscriptive vows [#13–17] are from the Five Precepts.) I shall endeavour to follow the Noble Eightfold Path and practice compassion and loving-kindness in everyday life.
Aquinas held that the only vows that could be considered solemn were those made by receiving the holy orders as a member of the Catholic Hierarchy, or by the religious profession of the rule as a member of a Catholic religious order.
While originally containing heathen religious components such as prayers and worship of gods such as Freyr and Thor, the practice continued in an altered manner after the Christianisation of Scandinavia.
One example was shown in the Diocese of Greensburg in Pennsylvania, where a priest maintained his clerical status after he had married a girl he impregnated.
Along similar lines, the Sunday Service of the Methodists, the first liturgical book of Methodism, contains the following baptismal vows: Question.
The oath was basically an oath of fidelity and it required every priest in France to publicly declare whether or not they believed the French state or the Pope had supreme authority in ecclesiastical matters.
τάματα, tamata) is a form of votive offering or ex-voto used in the Eastern Orthodox Church, particularly the Greek Orthodox Church.
The oath of vengeance—a promise to pray for justice for the murders of Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum—was removed from the endowment in 1927 as part of the church's "Good Neighbor" policy, and the penalty oaths were removed in 1990.
The result was, that although the first act made a purchase by a papist void, the second act made the purchase valid for the benefit of a protestant discoverer; and thus, that which was void as between the parties, was good for the benefit of a third person.
One way church authority enforced celibacy was by ordaining monks, who took the vow of chastity, to evangelize large areas of Europe.
A wide variety of images may be found on tamata, with the images capable of multiple interpretations.
At the end of this procession the crucifix and Bible were publicly burned, and the donkey was allowed to drink out of the sacred chalice.
There are three degrees of monasticism in the Orthodox Church: The ryassaphore (one who wears the ryassa – however, there are no vows at this level – the Stavrophore (one who wears the cross), and the Schema-monk (one who wears the Great Schema; i.e., the full monastic habit).
According to Smith's youngest brother William Smith the wording of the oath taken in the Nauvoo temple was in part, "You do solemnly swear ...
Because early Buddhism did not claim that all physical conditions, injury and illness included, are necessarily caused by past karma, it saw the physicians role to be a vital one.
Although the precise interpretation of depictions involving rings is not undisputed, their common presence alongside depictions of gods in migration period bracteates and amulets, demonstrates the importance of the symbol to the Germanic peoples.
Tibetan Buddhism The pratimokṣa of the Mulasarvastivada lineage followed in Tibetan Buddhism is taken for life unless one or more of the four root vows are broken.
Bibliography External links One version of the Diploma of Ramiro I Archived 2014-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
(G) Even if I cannot heal a patient with the proper diet, proper medicine and proper nursing I will still minister to him, out of compassion.
A Buddha's disciple ought to have a mind of filial piety -- rescuing all sentient beings and instructing them in the Dharma of purity and chastity.
It constitutes one of the religious vows which are made both by members of the religious institutes and diocesan hermits.
In Mormonism, the oath of vengeance (or law of vengeance) was part of the endowment ritual of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) implemented in 1845.
The Jewish advocate Isaac Adolphe Crémieux won great fame by effecting the abolition of the oath through a case brought before the court of Nîmes in 1827.
Some inscriptions are made in an extremely short formula, including only the vower's name and the word ndr (as a noun – "the vow of") or mtnt ("the gift of").
Distinction from simple vows Any vow in Catholic religious life other than a solemn vow is a simple vow.
I renounce Hinduism which is harmful to humanity and impedes the advancement and development of humanity, and adopt Buddhism as my religion.
In 1566 and 1568, Pope Pius V rejected this class of institute, but they continued to exist and even increased in number.
The most contentious aspect of the constitution, however, involved how new bishops were to be appointed to office and the duties required of them.
The existence of the oath was confirmed in an 1889 Salt Lake City meeting of the First Presidency in which they discussed "the propriety of ...
Stealing: the robbery of anything worth more than 1/24 troy ounce of gold (as determined by local law).
Baptismal vows are the answers required of an adult candidate for baptism just before the sacrament is conferred.
Ordination to the priesthood is based on the recipient's personal moral worthiness and church participation without regard to education or other socioeconomic status, and, since 1978, without regard to race.
Lou Engle, a Charismatic evangelical American leader, has written Nazarite DNA, which outlines a metaphorical interpretation of the vow.
The Poor Clares constitute the second branch of the Order of Friars Minor, founded in the thirteenth century by Clare of Assisi under the inspiration of Francis of Assisi.
The process involved making prayers to either Christian or heathen gods and honouring the previous ruler and has been proposed to have had a central role in both reassuring the king's followers and legitimising his power.
From the phrase "he must do," the rabbis deduced that there exists a positive commandment to fulfill what one said, as well as a negative prohibition not to desecrate one's word.
Some scholars have interpreted this oath as a relic of Irish Celtic paganism, preserved in Irish literature.
Ceremony and symbolism Tamata may be offered to an icon or shrine of a saint as a reminder of a petitioner's particular need, or in gratitude for a prayer answered.
Maimonides thought the commandment should be taken as generally as possible, and therefore he considered it forbidden to mention God's name unnecessarily at any time.
Nevertheless, before Pope Leo XIII's reforms in the 19th century, these simple vows constituted them religious in the true and proper sense of the word, with the consequent privileges and exemption of regulars, including the vows being a diriment impediment to matrimony, etc.
Just like the Santi Asoke, the Thai Dhammakaya Temple emphasizes eight precepts, especially in their training programs.
A similar fate befell Louis-Alexandre Expilly, Constitutional Bishop of Finistère, who had distinguished himself in the early stages of the Revolution.
In the Catholic Church, the vow of obedience is one of the three vows of professing to live according to the evangelical counsels.
What followed was 9 years of civil wars between 1642 and 1651, the first one ending when Charles I was placed under Parliament custody and put to trial.
They must also "receive the sacrament of the Lord's Supper according to the usage of the Church of Ireland".
The prātimokṣa tells also how to purify faults, how to solve conflicts, and deal with various situations which can happen in the sangha.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed.
However, Webster does not expressly state that the formula in the Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum was used by Popes from the fifth to the eleventh century, which would obviously be impossible.
On a similar note, human rights organizations in Southeast Asia have attempted to advocate respect for human rights by referring to the five precepts as guiding principles.
A number of prātimokṣa codes are extant, including those contained in the Theravāda, Mahāsāṃghika, Mahīśāsaka, Dharmaguptaka, Sarvāstivāda and Mūlasarvāstivāda vinayas.
The vow of enclosure is a religious vow made by some branches of the Poor Clares in addition to the three vows of obedience, poverty and chastity.
The terms in which the swearer called down upon himself invoked all the curses of Leviticus and Deuteronomy, the ten plagues of Egypt, the leprosy of Naaman and Gehazi (see 2 Kings 5), the fate of Dathan and Abiram, etc.
On 14 February 1493, in the Atlantic Ocean east of the Azores, they met with a storm that threatened to capsize the two caravels.
The author of Hebrews reviewed God's promise to Abraham as assurance that outstanding promises will yet be fulfilled.
González Gómez, Juan Miguel Archived 2009-12-29 at the Wayback Machine: El Voto Colombino, el Monasterio de Santa Clara y su influjo en Hispanoamérica.
The first sign, called "Sign of Tinnit", symbolizes according to most researchers the goddess Tinnit; her common epithet, pn bʿl appears as ΦΑΝΗΒΑΛΟΣ on a coin from Ashkelon near the symbol of Tinnit.
During the rally, Louis Farrakhan recited the following pledge and asked all men present to repeat after him and take the pledge.
The Apostolic Constitution Sponsa Christi of 21 November 1950 made access to that permission easier for nuns (in the strict sense), though not for religious institutes dedicated to apostolic activity.
References External links The Third Commandment in Masoretic Hebrew, Septuagint Greek and several English versions.
The neder may consist of performing some act in the future (either once or regularly) or abstaining from a particular type of activity of the person's choice.
While the gestures remained unchanged, the church removed the explicit descriptions of the three methods of execution and replaced them with the phrase, "rather than do so, I would suffer my life to be taken." In April 1990, the LDS Church eliminated the oaths and the gestures from the endowment.
When Simon asked why he had decided to clip his hair, the youth replied that on beholding his image in a pool he had become vain of his own beauty, and had therefore taken the Nazaritic vow to avoid all temptations (4:7).
And doth thou believe in the Holy Ghost; the Holy Catholic Church; the Communion of Saints; the Remission of Sins; the Resurrection of the Body; and everlasting Life after Death?
Premise The Day of Atonement is one on which American black men swear to refrain from crime, drug addiction, and family abuse.
and carry out hostilities against this nation, and to keep the same intent a profound secret now and forever." The prophets believed by many to be referenced are Joseph and Hyrum Smith, who were killed by a mob in 1844 while jailed in Carthage, Illinois.
Chapter 5: Cases in which a person dedicates or vows something by mistake; Nazarites who had made their vows before the destruction of the Temple, and, on coming to Jerusalem to offer their sacrifices, had learned that the Temple had been destroyed (§ 4); conditional Nazaritic vows (§§ 5-7).
Temple rings varied in size in accounts, from small rings weighing around 50 g, as in Landnámabók, to that described in Eyrbyggja saga at a temple of Thor weighing around 550 g.
Still one must study the Torah and observe its commandments, even though he is not in the proper mood, since he will gradually acquire thereby a sympathetic frame of mind" (23b).
Thus, the precepts are rules or guidelines to develop mind and character to make progress on the path to enlightenment.
The Mūlasarvāstivāda Vinaya is preserved in both the Tibetan Buddhist canon in the Kangyur, in a Chinese edition, and in an incomplete Sanskrit manuscript.
Inscriptions in similar formulas were found in Sidon, near Tyre, in Athens, Rhodes, Egypt, Kition and Idalion, as well as unstandard versions in Carthage.
During the 20th century, the largest Mormon denomination, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), gradually softened the graphic nature of their penalties, and in 1990, removed them altogether from its version of the ceremony.
The declaration of faith, generally known as the Profession of Faith, may also feature within the Sacrifice of the Mass, especially in the Easter season.
According to Olaus Verelius's notes in his 1672 edition of Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks, part of this jula-galt would then be saved for mixing with the seed-corn and giving to the plough-horses and ploughmen at spring planting.
A neder may be annulled by either a beit din (court of Jewish law, composed of at least three adult men), or singlehandedly by a Talmid chacham (Torah scholar).
Columbus's vow (Spanish: El Voto colombino) was a vow by Christopher Columbus and other members of the crew of the caravel Niña on 14 February 1493, during the return trip of Columbus's first voyage to perform certain acts, including pilgrimages, upon their return to Spain.
In the succession of the trial of Charles I, he was executed for treason in 1649 and the kingship was replaced with Oliver Cromwell's Commonwealth of England.
Epiphanius Panarion 29.4) believed he had, and the vow of a nazirite would explain the asceticism Eusebius of Caesarea ascribed to James, a claim that gave James the title "James the Just".
Formally, one bill was vetoed and the other was returned to Dublin with amendments; a lack of surviving documentation makes it impossible to determine which of the two had which fate.
In an interesting comparison to this, Suśruta, the father of Indian medicine, advises the physician not to treat a patient he suspects of being incurable so as not to be blamed for the patient's death and injure his reputation.
Often members of the church who do not maintain the standards and people who are not members of the church are invited to participate in the quorum to enjoy the brotherhood and support, although they may not be given certain quorum responsibilities.
Similar acts were passed by the British parliament, and after the union the UK parliament continued the practice.
The ring Draupnir is told in Skáldskaparmál to have been forged by the dwarfs Brokkr and Sindri, to drip eight equally heavy rings every eight nights.
48), with the exception of section 25, which was made redundant by the coming into force in 1871 of the Irish Church Act 1869, and was repealed by the Statute Law Revision (Ireland) Act 1878.
Columbus, the Niño brothers and the rest of the crew from Moguer headed immediately to Moguer, bringing with them some Caribbean natives whom they had taken on their voyage back, and also bringing several parrots.
Another prominent victim was the former Constitutional Bishop of Yonne, Étienne Charles de Loménie de Brienne.
This profession of faith cannot have been presented to the Exarch of Ravenna at any time after the papacy revolted – soon after 727 (see Eutychius (exarch)) – against the Emperor.
Thus it is not proper for a monk to be alone with a woman, especially in screened or private places.
Eyes may indicate an eye affliction, hands or legs may indicate maladies of the limbs, a pair of wedding crowns may mean a prayer for a happy marriage, a torso for afflictions of the body, and so forth.
The fourth precept is compared by Keown with the "right not to be lied to"; the CIHR writes "the right of human dignity".
It is also found in the Commentary on the Ten Stages Sutra (Ch: Shidi jinglun 十地經論), attributed to Vasubandhu.
Religious orders Camillians The Camillians take a fourth vow of service to the sick, even in danger of death.
Continued practice by Mormon fundamentalists Some groups within the Mormon fundamentalist movement continue to practice the endowment without modification.
Tamata may be bought in shops selling Greek Orthodox religious items, and then hung with a ribbon on a pole or hooks near an icon or shrine of a saint, the act of which is usually accompanied with a prayer, and sometimes with the lighting of a votive candle.
External links Brahma Net Sutra Twenty Verses on the Bodhisattva Vow by Chandragomin The Actions for Training from Pledged Bodhichitta, Root Bodhisattva Vows and the Secondary Bodhisattva Vows by Dr.
Section 13 mandated that inheritance from a Protestant would according to common law, that is primogeniture.
Government In Iran, women are required to wear hijabs as part of that society's efforts to enforce chastity.
They make a public profession of the evangelical counsels of chastity, poverty, and obedience, confirmed by a vow or other sacred bond, regulated by canon law but live consecrated lives in the world (i.e.
Notable declarations of faith include confirmation and adult baptism in Christianity, the Shahada in Islam and the Shema Yisrael in Judaism.
From this, stemmed the first oath of allegiance to King Charles I and to the Protestant Reformation in the Church of England.
In November, the oath described in the Civil Constitution of the Clergy was drafted, and by the end of the year the Assembly proclaimed executive authority to enforce said oath.
Paradosis (Tradition): The Handing On of Divine Revelation Strong's no.3862 [3] cf.Katecheo (Catechism) Archived 2009-02-01 at the Wayback Machine [4] Calvin on monasticism excerpts from his commentary on Jeremiah 5:30-31 [5] and his Institutes; book 4, chapter 13, sections 10, 14, 15.
New bishops were forbidden from seeking confirmation from the Pope, but were allowed to write him to inform him of their position and reassert a unity of faith.
Along these lines, Joseph Vendryes argued that the god behind this oath was the Celtic god Teutates, and Calvert Watkins that the oath had roots in Proto-Indo-European.
The Day of Atonement, October 16, was established during the Million Man March in Washington, DC, on October 16, 1995 by the Nation of Islam.
Also, according to some scholars, Brahmanism did not migrate to the early Buddhist region till some time after the advent of Buddhism.
But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife") and a locus classicus used against sacerdotal celibacy is the statement in 1 Timothy 3:2–4 that a bishop should be "the husband of one wife" and "one who ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection".
Belittling the Śrāvakayāna or Pratyekabuddhayāna (by holding and causing others to hold the view that these vehicles do not abandon attachment and other delusions).
Wilt thou then obediently keep God's holy will and commandments, and walk in the same all the days of thy life?Answer.
In India, these vows are taken as an oath by individuals or groups of people when they convert to Buddhism.
Bowels: The participant placed his or her right hand palm-down with the thumb extended and the tip of the thumb on the left of the torso just above the left hip.
This was mostly because of the influence of Anagarika Dharmapāla (1864–1933), who observed the ten precepts (similar to the eight) continuously, maintaining a status between lay person and monk.
In the courtyard of the temple's workshop, a clay mask with no beard or mustache was found, similar to the Punic masks.
Either one must ask the individual who originally made the neder why they now wish to have their neder annulled.
Scholarly reception The association with the Yule blót and with the ceremonial bragarfull gives the vows great solemnity, so that they have the force of oaths.
59), passed in consequence of the committee's report, explicitly repealed provisions of sections 1, 3, and 4 of the 1704 act.
The 1983 Code of Canon Law maintains the distinction between solemn and simple vows, but no longer makes any distinction between their juridical effects.
A declaration of faith is a phrase that is said by a member of any religion to show either to themselves, their God or other members of the religion their belief and faith in the religion.
Popes outside the 682–727 period would not have spoken of the 680–681 Council as recent, and it would be particularly ridiculous to suppose that Popes from two centuries before the Council knew anything whatever about that Council.
If a monk breaks any rule here he has to undergo a period of probation or discipline after which, if he shows himself to be repentant, he may be reinstated by a sangha of not less than twenty monks.
Similarly, if he made a vow to enter a particular religious institute or become a priest, but instead entered a different institute or decided to marry, the religious profession or the marriage, despite being a violation of his vow, was still considered valid.
The commandment has been repeated in the LDS Scriptures such as the Book of Mormon and in Doctrine and Covenants.
The cultural roles of rings continued to varying extents during and after the Christianisation of the Germanic peoples, such as in gift-bestowal and oath-swearing.
Many Penal Laws were repealed in general terms by the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1793; the sacramental test for Catholics was effectively replaced by the 1774 oath.
Interpretation and discussion Heitstrengingar took place at Yule and other sacrificial feasts, weddings, arvals, and banquets and often acted as a form of bragging and promising the performance of an often great feat.
In most of the editions of the Mishnah, this treatise is the fourth in the order Nashim, and it is divided into 9 chapters, containing 48 paragraphs in all.
This was vowed to James before the battle by Ramiro I of Asturias in Calahorra, offering Saint James part of the booty taken from the Moors along with the first fruits and crops from each year's harvest as an ex voto.
Having attained the wisdom of the True Dharma, for the sake of all living beings, may I explain it without wearying.
The Oath Against Modernism is still pronounced by the Society of Saint Pius X, and sedeprivationist and sedevacantist groups such as the Congregation of Mary Immaculate Queen and the Istituto Mater Boni Consilii.
Section 19 provided for rolls of those subscribing to the oaths under section 15 to 17 be kept at the Four Courts.
See also Ad tuendam fidem Humani generis Providentissimus Deus References External links The original Latin text of Sacrorum antistitum English translation of Sacrorum antistitum in The American Catholic Quarterly Review (October 1910: vol.
It was renewed and formalised by a national festival in 1643 for his feast day (25 July) by Philip IV of Spain.
It emphasised that officials of the Church could not give their loyalty to anyone outside the First French Republic, specifically meaning the Papacy.
He pointed out that though a person may hold him/herself guiltless in one of these matters, the commandment specifically states that God will not.
Eastern Catholic priests are permitted to marry, provided they do so before ordination and outside monastic life.
As Summer advanced, negotiations between King and Parliament did not lead to fruition and the stalemate remained.
bile (pitta), phlegm (sema), wind (vāta); an imbalance of all three (sannipāta), seasonal changes (utu), stronger than normal stress (visamaparihāra), and external agencies (opakkamika), e.g.
See also Early Buddhist schools First Buddhist council Second Buddhist council Muzha (given name) Bibliography Indian Buddhism Prebish, Charles S.
Inheritance in traditional Irish law used gavelkind, whereby an estate was divided equally among a dead man's sons.
In the Buddhist tradition, in particular within the Mahayana and Vajrayana traditions, many different kinds of religious vows are taken by the lay community as well as by the monastic community, as they progress along the path of their practice.
Since the 18th century, consecrators and episcopal lineage were extended to the Benedictine monks-bishops.
And if any of those ˹bondspeople˺ in your possession desires a deed of emancipation, make it possible for them, if you find goodness in them.
The Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum includes a formula of profession of faith that a newly elected Pope sent to the representative at Ravenna of the Emperor of Constantinople soon after the Third Council of Constantinople (680–681), which is referred to in the text as held "recently".
In Theravada Buddhism, the Pāṭimokkha is the basic code of monastic discipline, consisting of 227 rules for fully ordained monks (bhikkhus) and 311 for nuns (bhikkhuṇīs).
Ineligible groups of members Some members of the church were historically or are currently ineligible for receiving the priesthood.
Gearóid Mac Niocaill proposed that the function of the pagan god behind this oath was that of the tribe's ancestor god, whereas Kenneth H.
Paul, says Laurent Cleenewerck, a priest of the Orthodox Church in America and professor of theology at Euclid University, clearly favored celibacy, which he understood as "a gift".
See also Nazirite References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; et al., eds.
During this time, it was particularly Buddhist teachers who promoted abstinence from alcohol (the fifth precept), since Daoism and other thought systems emphasized moderation rather than full abstinence.
The second symbol, a crescent with a disc, is the symbol of Baʿal Ḥammon; it appears on stelae dedicated to both Tinnit and Baal Hammon or only to Baal Hammon, but does not appear on stelae dedicated only to Tinnit.
He shall not take a wife, he shall not have a house to dwell in, and he shall not offer the blood of animals or fowl.
It remained in force until the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, with the approval of Paul VI, replaced it (along with the Tridentine Profession of Faith) with a revised profession of faith in 1967.
An additional vow usually is an expression of the order or the congregation's charism or particular insertion in the apostolic field of the Church.
If both sides agree that they are not acting the way monks ought to, they can call a full assembly of the sima and confess their mistakes, and the verdict should be "covering over as with grass." Notes 1.
In practice, in Theravāda traditions, the precepts are mostly observed by faithful devotees above 40 years of age.
These "vows of renunciation" are then followed by the profession of faith in Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
The fifth article recognizes that at times it might be necessary to deal with the loathsome aspects of the human body and that the physician should do this with detachment, both for his or her own mental balance and so as not to embarrass the patient.
Religious congregations Other religious institutes have adopted the practice of taking a fourth vow: The Religious Sisters of Mercy take a fourth vow of service to the poor, sick, and ignorant.
The vow is an expression of the strong attachment the Jesuits have for the Church, and their willingness to accept whatever service the Church asks (through the pope) if it is of a great apostolic need.
Under the ancien regime, France was divided into three Estates, and the clergy occupied the First Estate, with the aristocracy comprising the Second Estate, and the commoners the Third Estate.
The U manuscript furthermore describes the ritual and the involvement of the boar to be a custom at the time of the saga narrative and tells how there was an effort to breed the largest pig possible for the occasion.
References External links Jewish Encyclopedia by Gotthard Deutsch This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; et al., eds.
While "reform" had been the stated goal by revolutionaries before, anti-religious rhetoric calling for the abolishment of the Church as a whole began to gain prominence.
bSlabs-btus), compiled in India by Śāntideva in the 8th century" including 18 primary and 48 secondary downfalls.
However, the Protestation is an enlightening historical phenomenon that help us understand the process that led to the English Civil Wars and attempts that people made to avert a costly conflict, even from those at the center of the hostilities.
Monks and nuns are not considered "ordained" by the Bodhisattva Precepts, but rather by the "Four Part Vinaya", while the Bodhisattva Precepts served to strengthen the Mahayana ideals.
The Sisters of Life take a fourth vow to "protect and enhance the sacredness of human life." Former fourth vows A fourth vow of the Missionaries of Christ Jesus, to march and serve the missions, was suppressed in 1969.
In early Irish literature, and especially in the heroic sagas, characters are frequently made to swear formulaic oaths, preceding declarations that the character will perform some action or fulfil some threat.
The sisters known as "extern sisters" (or "externs") do not make this additional vow in order to be able to handle some of the community's needs outside the papal enclosure.
Social patterns and practices calculated to inflame sexual desire are frowned upon by Islam, such incitements to immorality including permissive ideologies, titillating works of art, and the failure to inculcate sound moral principles in the young.
Latter-day Saints believe that ancient prophets and apostles conferred the priesthood directly upon Smith and other early members of the movement.
Vows The following are the 22 vows administered by Ambedkar to his followers: I shall have no faith in Brahma, Vishnu and Maheshwara, and I shall not worship them.
The tradition of keeping the Eight Precepts on weekly observance days is still widely practiced in all Theravadin Buddhist countries and communities worldwide.
In Harðar saga, Hróarr steps on a log at Yule before making a vow to break into the grave mound of the viking Sóti, followed by Hǫrðr vowing to accompany him and a third vowing to follow Hǫrðr, forming a formula also seen in Hrólfs saga kraka.
Gavai and Sadanand Fulzele, the secretary of the organization, have carved these 22 vows on a wide marble stone at the Deekshabhoomi ground and placed the pillar at the first sight of the stupa.
Consecrated virgins living in the world do not make religious vows, but express by a public so-called sanctum propositum ("holy purpose") to follow Christ more closely.
According to the Mahāvastu, Shakyamuni Buddha's first vow to become a Buddha was made under another past Buddha also called Shakyamuni.
It is solemn insofar as the Church recognizes it as such, and is unique in that no human authority within the church can relieve a person from it.
Though specific details were lacking, by the turn of the 20th century, Latter-day Saint theologians were convinced that such a conferral had occurred prior to the organization of the Church of Christ on April 6, 1830.
In the Catholic Church, by joining the consecrated life, one does not become a member of the hierarchy but becomes a member of a state of life which is neither clerical nor lay, the consecrated state.
After the Christianisation of the Germanic peoples, the practice retained some importance during the medieval period, where rings were hung on church doors, such as the Forsa Ring from Hälsingland in Sweden that was at a church adjacent to an old thing mound.
Grant appointed a committee charged with revising the endowment ceremony, which was done under the direction of apostle George F.
Verbo, Hungary (1517): the Jew would stand barefooted and swear with his face turned to the east, holding the Pentateuch in his hand.
The neder may be a promise of prohibition or deprivation (neder issar, e.g., "Let all beans be forbidden to me for thirty days"), or a dedication to the Temple (neder heḳdesh, e.g.
Interpretation Some have interpreted the oath as a genuine Celtic pagan formula, preserved in early Irish literature.
In Roman Catholicism, a declaration of faith may be used in various circumstances, both for purpose of conversion and of reaffirmation.
The oath was required of "all clergy, pastors, confessors, preachers, religious superiors, and professors in philosophical-theological seminaries" of the Catholic Church.
It is true by the oath that you have sworn, by the soul which you bring on the Day of Judgment before the Court, [before the God of] Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
In 1521, two years after the Fifth Lateran Council had forbidden the establishment of new religious institutes, Pope Leo X appointed a rule with simple vows for those tertiaries attached to existing institutes who undertook to live in a community.
The rabbis (along with some but not all academic scholars) view this as simply the appropriate disposal of a sanctified object, rather than being the hair itself being a sacrifice.
The precepts are regarded as means to building good character, or as an expression of such character.
Ambiguous expressions in some anti-Catholic writings could lead incautious readers to suppose that the text in the Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum was used by all newly elected Popes until the eleventh century and that it had been in use since the fifth century.
The battle had resulted from his refusal to pay the Tribute of 100 Damsels to the Emirate of Córdoba.
The Oath Against Modernism was a formal oath instituted by Pope Pius X in his motu proprio Sacrorum antistitum on September 1, 1910.
Someone who is chaste refrains from sexual activity that is considered immoral or from any sexual activity, according to their state of life.
Among these vows, the most significant is the eighteenth vow, which promises that any being who sincerely calls upon Amitabha's name with faith and resolve will be reborn in the Pure Land.
Sexton Blake and the Demon God is a 1978 six-part British BBC miniseries starring Jeremy Clyde as the fictional detective Sexton Blake.
Americomics was canceled after issue #6, and so far this story has never been referenced by any other publisher.
The Legend of the Hidden City was a South African action adventure series, directed by David Lister, which was broadcast by SABC and SABC2 between 1996 and 1998 as two series with a total of 39 episodes.
Series overview Episodes Season 1 Season 2 References External links Official website Official PBS Time Scanners website
The main characters are ex-astronaut Jeff Tracy, founder of International Rescue, and his five adult sons, who pilot the organisation's main vehicles: the Thunderbird machines.
Before the production, a test sequence was created such as the action sequences where Lupin competes for the treasure via parkour atop the rooftops of Paris or the drama scene in the heroine's room.
set the brains of all the good people along the coast in a ferment." There are "rumours on rumours" of recovered treasure, including coins with Moorish inscriptions which "the common people looked on with superstitious awe, regarding the Moorish letters as diabolical or magical characters".
One man speculated that the pistol was "a relique of the buccaneers of old times" that may have "belonged to Kidd himself".
Finally, in this new adventure our Lupin III will try to get his hands on the Diary of Bresson, the only treasure that the famous grandfather Arsenio Lupin (I) never managed to steal.
Woolf would go on to reprise his role in audio dramas by Magic Bullet Productions and Big Finish Productions in 2015; and on television in the two-part series 14 finale "The Legend of Ruby Sunday" / "Empire of Death" in 2024, in which Sutekh appeared as the main villain.
Gary Goldstein of the Los Angeles Times described the film as "a handful of intriguing ideas in search of a more cohesive and dimensional narrative".
The New Adventures were licensed novels carrying on from where the Doctor Who television series had left off, featuring a number of writers that previously worked on the series, along with several new to the franchise.
It received mixed reviews from critics but has attained cult status, with praise towards Kumar's psychiatrist character, Balan's portrayal of Avni and Manjulika, and the film's music.
The film is a topical satire of hypnotist Morey Bernstein's best-selling book The Search for Bridey Murphy and its film adaptation.
Tut eventually discovers the Batcave and deduces Batman's secret identity, but he is defeated before he can expose it.
John Stenn believes Khabul's headless body is proof that the "headhunter" killer of 1985 is loose again.
Hearn also criticises the Zombites as villains, noting that their hostility and motives for living underground are never explained.
In Greenland Jack and his friend Costas dive inside an iceberg, where they find a perfectly preserved Viking ship burial containing one of Hardrada's warriors.
Paul leaves Kay an urgent phone message and prepares to leave, but is confronted by the possessed Aranjo who stabs him to death.
According to popular conception, these people often buried their stolen fortunes in remote places, intending to return to them later (often with the use of a pirate's treasure map).
He devised the format for Channel 4's Time Team, which was developed from an earlier Channel 4 series Time Signs, first broadcast in 1991.
This Beetle received his own series in 1967, also by Ditko, which ran for five issues until the entire Charlton "Action Heroes" line of comic books ceased publication in 1968.
Maisie sees the Foretold; the Doctor quickly draws on her memories to trick the Foretold into targeting him instead.
The Byzantine historian Jordanes tells a similar story of the burial of the Visigoth king Alaric I and his treasure under the river Busento in 410.
Phillip Ko as Shum Kwan (沈昆), Andy's archeologist friend who discovered the Magic Cristal in Greece and is hunted by Karov.
The collecting of props and clothing from the films has become a thriving hobby for some aficionados of the franchise.
Several days later, as Hopper has not returned, Taylor and Jackie go looking for him, with their friend Cara, who brings her sister, Veeves, and her friend Furby.
Plot Characters Sora Kashiwagi (柏木 空, Kashiwagi Sora) Voiced by: Mutsumi Tamura At the beginning of the series, Sora was sent Mii-kun, a tiny Egyptian mummy, by his father.
The serial was broadcast by BBC One at tea-time from Sunday, 10 September 1978, until Sunday, 15 October 1978.
The Saddle Ridge Hoard is the name given to a hoard of 1,427 gold coins unearthed in Northern California in 2013.
The filmmakers clarified the reports to be inauthentic and that the film would have a theatrical release.
See also Time Team Podcast Time Team Live Time Team History Hunters Time Team Digs Time Team Extra Time Team America Notes References External links Time Team at Channel4.com Time Team Digital website
His arrival destabilizes a situation that had been frozen for 6,000 years, and fantastic adventures ensue.
When agent Yawen Clasen-Hamatti confronts Padway in person, she discovers her mistake and has a moral dilemma on her hands.
Time Scanners laser scans historical buildings with the hope of investigating various features about them.
Among his credits are illustrating several fairy tale compilations by Ruth Manning-Sanders, including The Glass Man and the Golden Bird: Hungarian Folk and Fairy Tales and Jonnikin and the Flying Basket: French Folk and Fairy Tales.
This episode is a triumph for Peter Capaldi." He added that it was "the latest superb episode in a strong season" and that "Peter Capaldi's performance is enough by itself to elevate this story to classic status, but Jamie Mathieson's script provides him excellent support".
According to Johnston, the robot mummies designed by the BBC's Barbara Kidd were inspired by an ancient rock painting of a mysterious domed-headed figure that had been discovered by Henri Lhote in the Sahara Desert in the 1950s, and which Lhote had nicknamed "the Great Martian God".
Over the course of the novel, Walter pursues Evelyn resulting in their engagement by the book's end—while less overt, the relationship between Amelia and Radcliffe develops toward their own marriage.
The three escape and reach the estate lodge inhabited by Scarman's brother Laurence, whose marconiscope intercepted a signal from Mars.
[and] arrive with resources that the archaeologists already on the case usually can’t afford and specific questions that, if answered, will advance the understanding of the site." A second season was announced on October 18, 2011, scheduled to shoot during the summer of 2012 and to air in 2013.
The episode was primarily filmed in the studio, but the scene with the Doctor and Clara on the planet was shot in Limpert Bay in the Vale of Glamorgan.
However, the Blue Beetle Scarab is damaged and so instead of it controlling the host, it forms a symbiotic relationship with them.
Influenced by the gothic horror genre and films such as The Mummy, the serial was met with widespread critical acclaim, being praised for its atmosphere and production.
As Lindsey deciphers hieroglyphs on the side – hailing Khamandides as "God of the Eternal Fountain" – a block rises up to form an entrance to the interior.
The film is co-produced by Akshay Kumar's mother Aruna Bhatia and Vikram Malhotra under the production companies Kumar's Cape of Good Films, Abundantia Entertainment, Lyca Productions and Amazon Prime Video.
External links Lest Darkness Fall title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database Lest Darkness Fall at Open Library Lest Darkness Fall, the short story and novel, on the Internet Archive A Review in Verse by Randall Garrett
Sam begs Riley to kill her, which he does by shooting her to stop Talos from achieving what he wants.
When Moffat took over Davies' duties as executive producer, he began expanding on the character's background, depicting adventures earlier in River's timeline, upgrading Alex Kingston from a guest star to a recurring actor in the series.
In research conducted by Kay and her peers, it is discovered that Nahalla, a shaman previously unidentified by the academics, arrived in the region in the 1890s with an Anglo wife whom he had kidnapped.
In his last year of the course, he was commissioned to illustrate a book that was reviewed in the Times Literary Supplement.
He is first shown talking to Nygma in an Egyptian-themed restaurant, and Nygma tells him that he is angry and jealous that he has not received a visit from Lex Luthor (who has been visiting various villains across the DC Universe as part of a nefarious plan he is setting up).
In Mass Effect: Deception, a 2012 novel, the Illusive Man is targeted by an extremist group, The Biotic Underground.
The contents of the container included works on paper, sculpture, vinyl LPs, digital video and audio files.
He suggested that more intense character depth could easily be achieved in narrative-driven games in comparison to fighting games due to the limited time invested.
This was followed by series 22 in 2023, with a new special episode, "Digging Band of Brothers", which was presented by a returning Tony Robinson.
The character must also comprehend her own family's connection with the Bresson diary and ultimately the Ahnenerbe.
Gold Digger is a comic book series, written and drawn by Fred Perry, and published by Antarctic Press.
Sam, Brad, Burke, and another member of the team break into Talos' burial chamber and see a sarcophagus suspended from the ceiling.
In a discussion about representation in video games on BBC Radio 4, one Native American participant shared her experience with the character of Michelle, upset with how she was stereotyped as a Native American, arguing that this kind of portrayal could especially harm Native Americans' reputation.
The artwork and design of Gold Digger are strongly influenced by Japanese manga, and Perry himself describes the book as a mixture of Indiana Jones and Final Fantasy.
First, he causes a truck to roll into the archeological dig site, seriously injuring one of the workers.
Also formerly at Disney's Hollywood Studios, an audio-animatronic Indiana Jones appeared in another attraction; during The Great Movie Ride's Raiders of the Lost Ark segment.
Eggleston studied 1960s NASA paintings and the original concept art for Tomorrowland for the Axiom, to reflect that era's sense of optimism.
The character appears once again in "DC Rebirth" in The Riddler: Year of the Villain as a friend of Edward Nygma.
However, the second season was ultimately delayed to July 23, 2025, as the 27th season of South Park had also been delayed to the same date.
Woolf would also go on to provide the voice of "The Beast" in the 2006 episodes "The Impossible Planet" and "The Satan Pit".
References External links Channel 4 Time Team episode features for series 18 including dig-reports and summaries by the archaeologists.
Movie tie-in novelizations The first four Indiana Jones film scripts were novelized and published in the time frame of the films' initial releases.
After returning to Hong Kong, Andy's older sister informs him about a phone call made by Shum's younger sister, Winnie, and gives him the address of a gymnasium where she trains.
It is produced by CBS Studios, MTV Entertainment Studios, Dandyflower Productions, Lonely Island Classics, and Titmouse, Inc.
To save Nefriama from death, the Pharaoh told her about Talos' upcoming execution, and she, in turn, told Talos.
They continued to return to the site to look for more coins, primarily digging in the ground and eventually using a metal detector.
Set in the 2060s, the series follows the exploits of International Rescue, an organisation that uses technologically advanced rescue vehicles to save human life.
Newman travelled to London to compose the end credits song "Down to Earth" with Peter Gabriel, who was one of Stanton's favorite musicians.
An actual exosuit was planned to be used for the underwater scenes, however, due to the challenges of wearing it and shooting in it, the team opted for a replica.
Game Informer's Joe Juba listed the Illusive Man's appearance in Mass Effect: Retribution as a reason to read the book.
This journey takes them over a refinery where one man in a gas mask are using a highly toxic and explosive gas to refuel fighters identical to those that shot down Scott.
As the series progresses, the youngsters Dean and Thabo who survived the helicopter crash (as does Dean's girlfriend Nina but they believe she's dead for much of the series), endure tests and riches, made friends with the inhabitants of the city.
A compilation of episodes from the first series was later released on DVD as a film called The Lost City.
The following is a list of episodes of Time Team, a British television/web programme about archaeology, that aired on Channel 4 from 16 January 1994 to, 7 September 2014.
A dizzy spell casts Kenton onto the deck of the ship, which becomes a full-sized vessel sailing an eternal sea.
There he "turned pirate himself" and plunders in the "Madeiras, to Bonavista, and Madagascar, and … the entrance of the Red Sea".
Home media Warner Archives released the film on made-to-order DVD in the United States as part of "The Bowery Boys, Volume Four" on August 26, 2014.
was co-written and co-created by Andy Samberg and Neil Campbell, who was co-executive producer for Brooklyn Nine-Nine.
Plot introduction The archaeologist hero, Kenton, receives a mysterious ancient Babylonian artifact, which he discovers contains an incredibly detailed model of a ship.
After a perilous dive into a cenote, Jack discovers the truth of Hardrada's last stand and the fate of the menorah, and he has his own final standoff with the latter-day Nazi and his henchmen who have been following him.
Samberg stars in the titular role as a celebrity archaeologist along with Mitra Jouhari, Tim Robinson, Tim Meadows, Melissa Fumero, Guz Khan, and Dale Soules.
The priest is found gruesomely murdered, showing that there are present-day Nazis who are shadowing them.
Julia also possesses an alternative personality known as Jaycee (Japanese: ジェイシー, Hepburn: Jeishī), who is in alignment with lucha libre professional wrestling.
Characterisation Casting For the role of River Song, whom executive producer Russell T Davies described as "sort of the Doctor's wife", the production sought to cast Kate Winslet.
Back at the museum, Kay discovers Paul's corpse on the medical examination table beside Nahalla's, and is confronted by a knife-wielding, possessed Aranjo.
In 1820, with the army of José de San Martín approaching Lima, Viceroy José de la Serna entrusted the treasures of the city to British trader Captain William Thompson for safekeeping, until the Spaniards could secure the country.
The original Blue Beetle was created by Charles Nicholas Wojtkoski and Fox Comics and later owned by Charlton Comics.
Taylor spent five years teaching, including two years VSO in Thailand, after completing a degree at the University of Birmingham and a PGCE at the University of Exeter.
GD Tangent – A webcomic by Fred Perry featuring drawings of various Gold Digger characters, Lvlup, set in Vana'diel (the world of Final Fantasy XI), and two Gold Digger subcomics, Ayane, set on Earth, and Northern Edge, set in the world of Jade.
At a different junction, they discover another opening to the cave and Furby, dead with a broken neck.
Others Several episodes were created that differed from the standard format, taking the form of documentaries.
Gabrielle is shot and killed during a confrontation, but Aryan, with Sandra and AP, continues his research, finding evidence linking the Ram Setu to the Ramayana.
Taylor recently received a Visiting Professorship in 'Archaeology in the Media' from the University of Exeter.
This film also expresses nostalgia through the longing of nature and the natural world, as it is the sight and feeling of soil, and the plant brought back to the space ship by EVE, that make the captain decide it is time for humans to move back to Earth.
The Illusive Man debriefs and tells Shepard about how someone has been abducting human colonies and may be working with the Reapers, a sentient machine race dedicated to wiping out all advanced intelligent life.
Aranjo stabs Ocacio to death, just before Ocacio drops the Kachini doll on an open fire, causing Aranjo's body to spontaneously combust.
He found a common trait in all the stories: there was always a lone survivor of a piratical crew who somehow preserved a chart showing where the treasure was buried, but unable to return himself, he transfers the map or information to a friend or shipmate, usually on his deathbed.
River is also referenced in the episode "Extremis", and it is revealed that she ordered her employee Nardole (Matt Lucas) to keep an eye on the Doctor for her in the event of her death.
After Oh No It Isn't!, Big Finish would produce five more adaptations of New Adventures novels Bernice appeared in.
Ambrus had already concentrated largely on engraving and lithography which, as he says, was an excellent training for line illustration.
This version wields a staff capable of turning people into obedient zombies and has been imprisoned at Iron Heights Penitentiary and Blackgate Penitentiary.
They go to L'Anse aux Meadows, the Viking site in Greenland, where further clues lead them to the Yucatán in Mexico, where Hardrada and his men had a final standoff with the Maya.
His characteristics have been traced back to several men known to Scott, and to the author himself, an enthusiastic antiquary.
The pair refer to each other by their respective surnames: Emerson refers to Amelia as "Peabody," using her first name only when he is annoyed with her.
But don't hold any of this against the show, because it's engaging, thoughtful, smart, nicely produced and really, really interesting." DVD All five episodes of the first season have been released on separate DVDs.
Volume 4: Ruler of the Universe (2017) Volume 5: Buried Memories (2019) Volume 6: Lost in Translation (2020) Volume 7: Blood & Steel (2022) David Warner died on 24 July 2022.
En route, the boys are asked to safeguard a mysterious mummy and find themselves tangled in a web of international intrigue.
However, the film will continue to depict the stories during the nostalgic Shōwa period with the use of technology in the film depicting airplanes used during World War II or the Fiat 500.
References External links Channel 4 Time Team episode features for series 19 including dig-reports and summaries by the archaeologists.
In the episode "I'll Be a Mummy's Uncle", Tut buys land adjacent to Wayne Manor to mine for a rare mineral.
River maintains the psychic link with Clara after the call ends, and counsels her throughout the exploration of the Doctor's tomb, although she seems to be invisible to everyone else.
McCarthy of the California firm Kagin's completed the initial evaluation of the coins and assessed the significance of the find.
Gordon considered him to be “the most fully and extensively developed character” of Scott's first three novels.
Vetticad of Firstpost called the movie a Hindutva project, noting that the director unapologetically obscured the difference between fact and fiction by having "no credible progression in the script" in Kumar's character's turn from a proud atheist into social media propagandist.
Season 1 (2009) Season 2 After a four-year gap, Videotext Communications/PBS produced the second season, which aired in 2014.
We learn that Oldbuck had once loved a certain Eveline Neville, who had preferred to secretly marry Glenallan, but the marriage had ended with the wife's suicide, the husband's nervous breakdown, and the spiriting away of their only son.
Shepard, Joyce Lankester Brisley, and the large historical paintings which he saw in public galleries.
Claims for evidence of extraterrestrial artifacts can be divided into three groups, the Moon, Mars, and the other planets and their satellites.
The resemblance between the real and fictional characters was detected by a friend of Constable and of Scott's father, George Chalmers, much to Scott's astonishment, since he believed he had erased all such similarities as might be recognized.
The sarcophagus that Mii-kun arrived in was a present from her brother and used as her napping place.
All these books have been reprinted, with Raiders of the Lost Ark being retitled Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark.
In Sach's Algy Winkle flashback, set in a colonial pub, Duke appears as a bartender, Chuck and Myron are customers, and Cleo Daniels is a waitress.
In turn, Peabody refers to Radcliffe Emerson almost exclusively by his surname, "Emerson", although some other family members call him Radcliffe.
David Houghton, writing for GamesRadar, said Sheen's involvement is an instance of "[w]hen celebrity voice-acting goes very right".
After a brief battle, the Highlander decapitates Kane and truly wins the Prize, now possessing the full power of all immortals who ever lived.
Blue Beetle remained as a main character on the series as it was re-titled Justice League International and then Justice League America.
In a 1996 Cinefantastique interview, Highlander producer William Panzer mentioned that several references to the TV series' continuity were inserted into this film as a means of linking it to the TV universe.
In the 66 seconds, the Doctor successfully identifies the Foretold as a modified stealth soldier of a long-ago war and offers surrender to tell the Foretold that the war is over.
On their walk back to their house, struggling to carry the weight of the find, the lid of the can cracked open, revealing the edge of a single gold coin.
Other specials may focus on a dig with a particular holiday theme; a more complex excavation over a longer period than the standard three days; or a visit to a particularly famous historical site.
Because her family is frequently involved in stopping criminal activity, and she has successfully deduced facts of numerous cases, she views herself as an expert in such matters, to the point of denigrating truly competent law enforcement officers.
Sequels by other hands Several short story sequels to Lest Darkness Fall, written by other authors, have appeared over the years.
Plot summary Following a prologue set in AD 71 when the golden menorah from the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem is locked away in Rome, the novel picks up in present-day Turkey with marine archaeologist Jack Howard on a hunt for ancient treasures in the harbour of Istanbul, formerly Constantinople.
He recalls the book in great detail, down to details of the time and route of the various armies' moves and their tactical and strategic considerations, as well as the convoluted and violent power struggles of the various contenders for the Gothic Kingship.
At any moment the ship may fade from reality, and both Kenton and the reader will be imprisoned in the mundane world of the everyday." Publication history Six installments in Argosy All-Story magazine, November 8 - December 13, 1924.
The Bone of Contention features the Galyari, who appeared in the Doctor Who audio play The Sandman, while the title and plot of The Relics of Jegg-Sau was inspired by a 1970s Doctor Who licensed jigsaw puzzle that depicted a scene with giant robots identical to the one that appeared in Robot.
The importance of the work was recognized by its inclusion in The Easton Press's series The Masterpieces of Science Fiction in 1989.
Daichi Tachiaki (立秋 大地, Tachiaki Daichi) Voiced by: Seiichirō Yamashita Daichi is a student at Sora's school in class 5-3.
Marine Corps to physics studies, the stories have included tongue-in-cheek references to a wide variety of popular culture, spanning anything from science, fantasy, science-fiction, television series, books, superheroes, computer games, animation, manga, or even internet memes.
Guz Khan as Zane Troy, Rip's former assistant, current rival and head archaeologist of Quail Eegan's museum.
Shum is tranquilized by Karov when he refuses to tell him the whereabouts of the artifact, but Karov is able to deduce that it may be kept by Andy.
Cast The Bowery Boys Huntz Hall as Horace Debussy "Sach" Jones Stanley Clements as Stanislaus "Duke" Coveleskie David Gorcey as Chuck (credited as David Condon) Jimmy Murphy as Myron Remaining cast Queenie Smith as Mrs.
It currently airs in reruns on the National Geographic Channel with 10 minutes removed for commercials.
Burke falls to his death after he reaches for an amulet, while Brad has a seizure while experiencing Talos' past atrocities.
By the time MacLeod finds her, he discovers she now has a family and decides to let her continue believing he is dead.
Produced by Taylor, it featured Mick Aston and Phil Harding, who both went on to appear on Time Team.
Yoshida continued to voice Julia in Japanese for the 2022 anime Tekken: Bloodline, while Jeannie Tirado provided the English voice for the same production.
Marketing British luxury apparel brand Dunhill launched a campaign in recognition of the release of the movie by featuring the key characters wearing Dunhill AW19 runway collection pieces.
The GPS coordinates of the exhibition location were given to the Dutch artist Constant Dullaart, who worked with a cryptographer to encode them.
Plot In 1948, Egypt, an archeological dig led by Richard Turkel reaches a tomb identified as belonging to Talos, apparently cursed.
Season 8 (2007–08) In the eighth season, Braxiatel returns to the Collection, which is threatened by crossfire and politics in the war between the Draconians and Mim.
Posing as King Vibhuti Narayan, he converses with Manjulika, who vows revenge on the next Durgashtami.
The episode's title and premise are a take on the Agatha Christie novel Murder on the Orient Express.
Publication history Perry came up with the initial inspiration for Gold Digger during his tour of duty in the First Gulf War, and released the debut one-shot in Antarctic Press' Mangazine in 1991.
More recently, there was interest in the supposed Face on Mars, an example of the psychological phenomenon of pareidolia.
After discovering what appears to be a cowboy paused in place in a tunnel, he returns to town and dismisses his graduate students, Taylor and Jackie, stating that their research is done.
Ban-Ban opens the luggage containing the mysterious artifact, the Magic Crystal, a large piece of jade with magical powers that can talk, and befriends it.
Labyrinth) is a 2007 Indian Hindi-language psychological horror comedy film directed by Priyadarshan from a screenplay by Neeraj Vora and produced by T Series.
Instead of waiting in the harbour as they were instructed, Thompson and his crew killed the Viceroy’s men and sailed to Isla del Coco, where they buried the treasure.
Xenoarchaeology, a branch of xenology dealing with extraterrestrial cultures, is a hypothetical form of archaeology that exists mainly in works of science fiction.
Planetary SETI Planetary SETI is concerned with the search for extraterrestrial structures on the surface of bodies in the Solar System.
Plot summary When five Egyptian statuettes are stolen from a museum, the Hardy Boys travel to Egypt.
WALL-E enters the pod to retrieve the plant just as it launches, and he and the plant survive the pod's destruction.
Plot The series followed the lives of archaeology students who discover an ancient city in the wilderness unknown to civilisation.
Works about the exploration of enigmatic extraterrestrial artifacts have been satirically categorized as Big Dumb Object stories.
version features "freelance and university-affiliated experts [who] mostly join existing excavations ...
Additionally, BioWare felt it did not fit the Illusive Man—the Illusive Man's "weapon" being his intelligence, not physical strength—and wanted to let the player fight a character they recognised.
It was also shown by Sky1 and Five in the United Kingdom, Network 2 (as part of the children's strand The Den in Ireland), Channel 2 in Jordan, ZBC in Zimbabwe,KBC in Kenya, Fun Channel in The Middle East, Kids Channel in Israel, Canal Famille in Québec, Canada and by YTV in Canada.
Synopsis In 1927, Sexton Blake investigates a mystery involving a stolen Egyptian mummy, an ancient curse and a cult that dabbles in human sacrifice.
According to the Indian trade website Box Office India, with around 12,00,000 units sold, this film's soundtrack album was the year's eighth highest-selling.
Works by forty artists were placed inside a chest and buried in a secret location on the island, the pirate history of which inspired Robert Louis Stevenson’s novel Treasure Island.
Amelia is a proponent of equality between the sexes, and brings up her adopted daughter, Nefret Emerson, accordingly.
Buried treasure is a literary trope commonly associated with depictions of pirates, alongside Vikings, criminals, and outlaws in the Old West.
Notes See also Chest (furniture) Confederate gold Entierro List of missing treasures Oak Island Treasure hunting Treasure of Guarrazar == References ==
While initially apprehensive due to previous bad experiences with his father's "gifts", Sora quickly warmed up to Mii-kun and watches over him, in doting parental fashion.
References External links Hold That Hypnotist at IMDb Hold That Hypnotist at the TCM Movie Database (archived version) Hold That Hypnotist at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
Arriving at the chamber, Karov also hears this message, and a fight ensures between Andy, Cindy and Billy against Karov and his thugs.
During an intensive casting process, Lucas and Spielberg auditioned many actors, and finally cast actor Tom Selleck as Indiana Jones.
River also guest stars in series eight of the UNIT – The New Series range; the anniversary release The Legacy of Time, where she meets fellow time-travelling archaeologist companion Bernice Summerfield (Lisa Bowerman); and the special release Peladon.
When another member of the party, the fraudulent German alchemist Herman Dousterswivel, succeeds in getting money from Wardour to finance a search for the treasure Oldbuck warns his friend against the charlatan.
Irving records that "Some would dig so far as to come to an iron chest" only to fall victim to some "baffling circumstance", as when "the earth would fall in and fill up the pit, or some direful noise or apparition would frighten the party from the place".
Due to privacy concerns, the exact location of the discovery has not been disclosed, other than to confirm that the land is located in a hillside area less than 200 miles from the site of the Gold Rush of 1849.
Some of her known careers include model, director, writer, and actress, all of which she is incredibly famous for (though few know her true looks due to her glasses at work).
While not a success, it is the highest-grossing film of the entire franchise, as well as the only one to recoup its budget at the box office.
On leaving teaching he set up a company which specialised in producing educational programmes for schools.
The novel is not only a rousing fantasy adventure story, but a philosophical exploration of the relationship between material reality and the abstract concepts through which humans struggle to understand it.
Episodes When PBS introduced a video player on its website in mid-April 2009, an episode of Time Team America became the most viewed.
From Blackbushe Airport and Crookham army camp, speaking no English, Ambrus presented himself at Farnham Art School, and was taken on, not to follow any particular course but to work at his drawing.
Dying, he shows the students several media clips about their disappearance and indicating that humans have left a dying Earth, resettling (and evolving) on Mars.
A heartbroken Manjulika swore vengeance towards any successor of the royal family before hanging herself.
Outline of Kidd's life Captain Kidd is employed to "put a stop" to piracy, under the logic of "setting a rogue to catch a rogue".
The story mode is based on an earlier version of the film with some creative liberties also taken, as the character's roles are different from the movie.
Similar to this, another Native American individual expressed criticism over the feather headband worn by Julia and supported their critique with photographs showcasing the clothing styles of their Native American friends.
For example, Los Angeles' South Central Farm (1994–2006), one of the largest urban gardens in the United States, was bulldozed with approval from property owner Ralph Horowitz, despite community protest.
Black gram has also been introduced to other tropical areas, such as the Caribbean, Fiji, Mauritius, Myanmar and Africa, mainly by Indian immigrants during the Indian indenture system.
The term 'Californian lilac' and ‘Mountain lilac’ is also applied to this and other varieties of ceanothus, though it is not closely related to Syringa, the true lilac.
Distribution of ploidy levels The chromosome count of Pityopsis graminifolia has been a topic of interest to researchers because of the range of ploidy levels.
Cutting when the grass is dry to the touch Cutting when the height is between 3 and 4 inches (7 to 10 cm), once per week.
PMC+ & PMCflex: fired at 900 °C (1,650 °F) for 10 minutes or 800 °C (1,470 °F) for 30 minutes; shrinks 15%, due to a particle size reduction.
Taxonomy Cylindropuntia imbricata was scientifically described as Cereus imbricatus by the botanist Adrian Hardy Haworth in 1821.
They are susceptible to root rot, molds, and fungi, and parasites attack if they receive too much water and the soil has insufficient drainage.
Adenium obesum, more commonly known as a desert rose, is a poisonous species of flowering plant belonging to the tribe Nerieae of the subfamily Apocynoideae of the dogbane family, Apocynaceae.
arundinacea have been selected for use as ornamental plants, including variegated (striped) cultivars – sometimes called ribbon grass – such as 'Castor' and 'Feesey'.
Origin and distribution Limonium perezii is native to the Canary Islands, but widely cultivated as a garden plant.
Graminifolia Distribution: Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, North and South Carolina Habitat: Coastal Plains Ploidy: 2n = 18 Phenology: Flowers in the fall Morphology: ray florets 6-15, disk florets 16-29 Pityopsis graminifolia var.
Other uses While the dry stone technique is most commonly used for the construction of double-wall stone walls and single-wall retaining terracing, dry stone sculptures, buildings, fortifications, bridges, and other structures also exist.
It would thrive in containers, such as hanging baskets, and would do well as a groundcover too, due to the cascading and sprawling nature of the stems.
Cultivated varieties include orange-red, pink, salmon, red, white, and scarlet, as well as bi-colored varieties.
After the Civil War Dixie Lee peas kept many southerners from starving to death, prior to which cowpeas were solely reserved as livestock feed and slave food.
Grasscycling is a method of handling grass clippings by leaving them to decompose on the lawn when mowing.
The fruit is an edible dark purple berry 1–2 cm diameter, superficially resembling Vaccinium myrtillus (bilberry or whortleberry) fruit; both the scientific and English names derive from this resemblance.
Conservation This species is listed as least concern under the Queensland Government's Nature Conservation Act.
Because it may contain erucic acid, a potential toxin, mustard oil is restricted from import as a vegetable oil into the United States.
Traditionally, Vigna mungo is used for preparing Dogra-style khichdi during Panj Bhikham and Makar Sankranti festival in Jammu and Lower Himachal.
The findings were published in popular form in Ken Thompson's book No Nettles Required: The truth about wildlife gardening.
Matthew Wilson (2007), New Gardening: How to garden in a changing climate, London: Mitchell Beazley and the Royal Horticultural Society (ISBN 9781845333058).
Both upland and lowland cultivars are deeply rooted, > 1.8 m (5 ft 11 in) in favorable soils, and have short rhizomes.
Fire may have a number of beneficial fire ecology effects on the plant, including increases in leaf and flower production and in genetic diversity.
Edge effect The edge effect in ecology is the increased diversity that results when two habitats meet.
Description Myrtillocactus geometrizans is a large shrubby cactus growing to 4–5 m tall, with candelabra-like branching on mature plants.
They also used the roots in washes for syphilis and cancer, and other parts of the plant for treating dysentery, gonorrhea, and eye problems in children.
Description Carex flacca leaves are blue-green above, glaucous beneath, to 6–12 inches (15–30 cm) in height.
Zaluziansky seems to have been a deservedly prominent botanist in his day, with some views on taxonomy quite advanced for his time.
Although the concentrations of these compounds are lower than in other potential sources, such as Psychotria viridis and Mimosa tenuiflora, large enough quantities of the grass can be refined to make an ad hoc ayahuasca brew.
Some perennial food plants are also grown, such as fruits and nuts in orchards, and watercress grown in water.
When grown, although drought-tolerant, it likes abundant water and can even be grown as an aquatic plant.
Curio acaulis is a succulent plant of the family Asteraceae that is native to Namibia and the Cape Provinces of South Africa.
Fukurokuryuzinboku, roughly translates to fortune (fuku), fief/happy (roku), dragon (ryu), Shinto god/spirit (jin), tree (boku).
The fragrance after dark suggests that in nature the species in question are pollinated by moths, whereas day-pollinated species often have little or no obvious scent.
The hairy leaves, scalloped on the edges, are pea green, varying in size, all the way up to 3 in (7.6 cm) long and 2 in (5.1 cm) wide.
Habitat This plant prefers dry hills, scrubland and open woodlands, at an altitude of 0–1,200 metres (0–3,937 ft) above sea level.
History Prelude The centre of diversity of the cultivated cowpea is West Africa, leading an early consensus that this is the likely centre of origin and place of early domestication.
Cultivation Carex flacca is cultivated by plant nurseries as an ornamental plant, planted for accent or as a groundcover in gardens and public landscapes.
Adenium somalense is also native to Africa, inhabiting Tanzania, Kenya, and Somalia, and reaching heights of 5 metres (16 ft), which makes it the largest of these four subspecies.
In the ensuing years, metal clay has also become a popular addition to the traditional jewelry makers' tool box, thereby making its way into the mainstream.
Native species, including two stem-mining weevils, a stem-mining fly, a leaf-mining fly, a scale insect, two fungi, and aphids (taxonomic identification for all species is pending) were found attacking garlic mustard in North America.
Description The plant reaches 2 to 4 ft (0.61 to 1.22 m) in height, with many branches, and a spread of about 2.5 ft (0.76 m).
building on earlier work by: Heather Apple, Antoine d’Avignon, Rita-Lise Bergevin, and Diane Joubert (6th English ed.).
In Nepal it is also a common practice to cook these greens with meat of all sorts, especially goat meat; which is normally prepared in a pressure cooker with minimal use of spices to focus on the flavour of the greens and dry chillies.
The lance-shaped blades are smooth and sometimes wavy along the edges, and measure up to 8 centimeters long.
Taxonomy Zaluzianskya was named in honour of Adam Zalužanský ze Zalužan, 1558–1613, a physician of Prague, author of Methodus Herbariae, 1592.
Industrial uses Coffee grounds may be used industrially in biogas production or to treat wastewater.
Phylogeny Cistus salviifolius belongs to the white and whitish pink flowered clade of Cistus species.
Gallery References External links Map of herbarium records of this species at the Australasian Virtual Herbarium Observations of this species on iNaturalist Images of this species on Flickriver.com
Sedum praealtum, also known as shrubby stonecrop or green cockscomb is a small, woody succulent shrub in the stonecrop family that is native to Mexico.
A study published in 2015 has shown that switchgrass, when grown in a traditional monoculture, has an adverse impact on some wildlife.
It is native to the Sahel regions south of the Sahara (from Mauritania and Senegal to Sudan), tropical and subtropical eastern and southern Africa, as well as the Arabian Peninsula.
Mammal herbivory One study's author said that protective cages are necessary for the establishment of transplants in large areas (where fencing is not feasible), due to predation by deer and other animals.
This species of Phalaris may also be used as a source of the psychedelic drugs DMT, 5-MeO-DMT and 5-OH-DMT (bufotenin), as well as Hordenine and 5-MeO-NMT; however, N,N-DMT is considered most desirable.
A species of parasitic wasp has been approved and introduced that feeds specifically on this aphid but it is currently not being sold by any company in North America.
It occurs at altitudes from 1,200 to 2,300 m (3,900 to 7,500 ft) and is hardy for a cactus (USDA Zone 5A).
Black carbon, or soot, can also be a product of unsustainable land use, and, despite not being a gas, it can behave like greenhouse gases and contribute to climate change.
Constituents and medicinal use The red roots and root bark of New Jersey tea are used by Native Americans in North America for infections of the upper respiratory tract.
Black gram originated in South Asia, where it has been in cultivation from ancient times and is one of the most highly prized pulses of India.
Proponents also note that grasscycling reduces the use of plastic bags for collecting yard waste and reduces trips to the curb or landfill to haul waste.
But this is not the complete hyperaccumulator phenotype because His-(GM-)overproducing lines do not exhibit increased Ni concentrations in either xylem sap or shoot tissue.
They also found a way to make plant cells resistant to the antibiotic kanamycin by transferring a bacterial neomycin phosphotransferase gene into the plant genome.
Origin The origin of the word Dixie is unknown but since its first use in 1859; it has referred to someone from the South, akin to the use of Yankee in the North.
The Bauta Family Initiative on Canadian Seed Security In February 2013, Gretchen Bauta, Canadian philanthropist and daughter of W.
Housing developments have replaced native habitats with ornamental plants and lawns, pushing the wildland–urban interface further out.
In the research framework program Horizon 2020, the project is organized under the direction of Fabio Terribile at the University of Naples Federico II.
Suburban permaculture sites such as one in Eugene, Oregon, include rainwater catchment, edible landscaping, removing paved driveways, turning a garage into living space, and changing a south side patio into passive solar.
It is also known as simply statice (reflecting the former name of the genus), sea lavender or marsh rosemary (common names for the genus).
The leaves have a fresh scent of wintergreen and were later utilized by the European colonizers as a tea substitute and stimulating caffeine-free beverage, notably during the American Revolution.
Habitat challenges However, while local provenance plants have adapted to local conditions (which includes climate, soil, and other native plants and animals), there will often be instances, especially in cities, where one or more of these will have been radically altered.
The root contains astringent tannins and a number of peptide alkaloids, including ceanothine A-E, pandamine, zizyphine, scutianine, and the adouetines.
Ceanothus thyrsiflorus, known as blueblossom or blue blossom ceanothus, is an evergreen shrub in the buckthorn family Rhamnaceae that is endemic to Oregon and California in the US.
It is widely used in canning, baking and margarine production in Russia, and the majority of Russian table mustard is also made from B.
The name was originally used by Theophrastus for another plant, and Linnaeus reused it for Ceanothus.
Possible mechanisms include attracting beneficial insects, repelling pests, or providing nutrients such as by fixing nitrogen, shade, or support.
By delivering water and nutrients directly to the root zone, plants are healthier and have a far greater yield.
This diversity, which presumably reflects evolution and adaptation to new environments as the species spread across the continent, provides a range of valuable traits for breeding programs.
This bushy shrub reaches on average 30–60 centimetres (12–24 in) in height, with a maximum of 100 centimetres (39 in).
It is used in butterfly and wildlife gardens, and in native plant and drought tolerant gardens and natural landscaping projects.
Its leaf substance has been traditionally used for burns, hemorrhoids and dysentery, gum inflammation, and as well as an eye drop for conjunctivitis and irritations.
Day-flying hawk moths, such as the genus Macroglossum (hummingbird hawk moths) also seem to be significant pollinators of many species of Zaluzianskya.
This crop is extensively grown in the southern part of India and the northern part of Bangladesh and Nepal.
Description This is a rhizomatous perennial herb with a waxy erect stem growing up to about 40 centimeters tall.
By the 17th century cowpeas began to be cultivated in the New World via the Trans-Atlantic slave trade, being used as slave food and provisions.
Taxonomy The plant has been considered to be a subspecies of Senecio oxyriifolius, although recent studies have shown that, whilst they are closely related, they are different enough to be disparate species.
Its origin goes back to the work of Marc Van Montagu and Jeff Schell at the University of Ghent who were among the first to assemble a practical system for genetic engineering of plants.
In addition to sexual reproduction, the tree cholla reproduces when stem joints fall to the ground and take root.
Ensuring that the mower blade is sharp Although a mulching mower can make grass clippings smaller, one is not necessary for grasscycling.
Cultivation Melica imperfecta is cultivated in the specialty horticulture trade and available as an ornamental grass for: natural landscape, native plant, drought tolerant water conserving, and habitat gardens.
Aquatic emergence traps are cage-like or tent-like structures used to capture aquatic insects such as chironomids, caddisflies, mosquitoes, and odonates upon their transition from aquatic nymphs or pupae to terrestrial adults.
Other uses In medieval India, this bean was used in a technique to facilitate making crucibles impermeable.
The biggest carbon stores in land are in soil; the two habitat types with the biggest carbon stores per hectare are woods and wetlands; and woods absorb more carbon dioxide per hectare per year than most other habitats.
Rainwater collected from the roofs of houses and local institutions can make an important contribution to the availability of drinking water.
Adhesive traps Sticky traps may be simple flat panels or enclosed structures, often baited, that ensnare insects with an adhesive substance.
References External links Calflora Database: Asclepias fascicularis (narrow leaf milkweed, Mexican whorled milkweed) Jepson Manual Treatment of Asclepias fascicularis Asclepias fascicularis - UC Photos gallery
Subsurface Textile Irrigation (SSTI) is a technology designed specifically for subsurface irrigation in all soil textures from desert sands to heavy clays.
A typical subsurface textile irrigation system has an impermeable base layer (usually polyethylene or polypropylene), a drip line running along that base, a layer of geotextile on top of the drip line and, finally, a narrow impermeable layer on top of the geotextile (see diagram).
Distribution and habitat The plant is a common perennial in the Western United States and Baja California.
The project brings together numerous universities, research institutions, companies and stakeholders with the aim of creating a web-based, free system to support practical agriculture and land users in making decisions about sustainable land use, environmental protection and agricultural use.
The use of spent coffee grounds in this application has the advantage of the used coffee grounds needing no pre-treatment to be usable as a mushroom substrate.
As the dry metal clay fires, binders burns away, and water content evaporates, resulting in sintered metal.
Description It is an evergreen or drought-deciduous succulent shrub (which can also lose its leaves during cold spells, or according to the subspecies or cultivar).
Fruits are 2–2.5 millimetres (0.08–0.10 in), roundish, with a very short beak, under 0.3 millimetres (0.012 in).
See also: Hyperaccumulators table – 1: Ag, Al, As, Be, Cr, Cu, Hg, Mn, Mo, Naphthalene, Pb, Pd, Se, Zn Hyperaccumulators table – 3: Cd, Cs, Co, Pu, Ra, Sr, U, radionuclides, hydrocarbons, organic solvents, etc.
Galloway dykes consist of a base of double-wall construction or larger boulders with single-wall construction above.
The components are inert and, given that they are situated below the ground, are not subject to the effects of weather, animals, machinery, vandals or other terrestrial conditions.
History The company was founded in 1982 by Marc Van Montagu and Jeff Schell who worked at the University of Ghent, Belgium.
Some differences in the different genus of the subtribe include fruit morphology, leaf anatomy, root and rhizome distinctions, habitat, and distribution.
Uses A spermicide developed from this plant, that helps women control birth rates without any major side effects, was around 20% more effective than nonoxynol-9.
Researchers have spent decades arguing the best way to classify the subtribe Chrysopsidinae and the genus Pityopsis.
With the active participation of various and numerous stakeholders in and outside Europe, the consortium also aims at legislation at European level, based on scientific data that is processed and modeled in the system.
Landsupport (spelling: LANDSUPPORT) is a pilot consulting project funded by the European Union for land use for the near-natural modeling of different types and methods of land use while at the same time protecting the environment.
It is frequent in a range of habitats, including grasslands, moorlands, exposed and disturbed soil, and the upper edges of salt marshes.
Ecology The Pistacia species are vicarious Anacardiaceae with few species outside the Old World, and are mostly more adapted to water shortage and alkaline soil.
Myrtillocactus geometrizans (bilberry cactus, whortleberry cactus, blue myrtle cactus, or blue candle) is a species of cactus in the genus Myrtillocactus, native to central and northern Mexico.
It can grow and even thrive in many weather conditions, lengths of growing seasons, soil types, and land conditions.
Notes In the genus Alyssum, free histamin (His) is an important Ni binding ligand that increases in the xylem proportionately to root Ni uptake.
The following components make up a typical SSTI installation: Pump or pressurized water source to 100–300 kPa (15–44 psi) Water filters or filtration system from 120 micron with suspended solids less than 30ppm Fertigation injector systems Back flow prevention Pressure regulating valves Main line.
However, due to the specialized firing requirements of base metal clays, actual creation time is more labor intensive than that of their silver and gold counterparts.
It is generally made of stainless steel, rubber, or plastic and has a sturdy bar known as a "bash bar", against which a portafilter is tapped to release the puck.
External links Jepson Manual Treatment — Melica imperfecta Grass Manual Treatment Melica imperfecta — U.C.
Hill Department of Entomology Macdonald College Cass County Extension Companion Planting List Companion Planting Infographic
It is native to the coasts of the Canary Islands but are widely used in gardens throughout the world.
It may be referred to by the Afrikaans name papierblom or the common name everlasting in South Africa.
Description Ceanothus thyrsiflorus can grow more than 6 metres (20 feet) tall and broad in its native chaparral habitat, with glossy green leaves.
Thriving in some full sun to shade, it cannot withstand soggy soils and would be tolerable of drought.
The five white petals have a yellow spot at the base, forming a corolla 4–6 cm (1.6–2.4 in) in diameter.
Cultivation It can be used as a bonsai due to its treelike appearance and it bears a resemblance to the Jade plant.
Symphoricarpos orbiculatus, commonly called coralberry, buckbrush or Indian currant is a woody species of flowering plant in the honeysuckle family.
(See pickled mustard.) A Southeast Asian dish called asam gai choy or kiam chai boey is often made with leftovers from a large meal.
building on earlier work by: Heather Apple, Antoine d’Avignon, Rita-Lise Bergevin, and Diane Joubert (6th French ed.).
By the second seed offering from HSP at the end of 1988, 14 contributing members of the program were offering 141 cultivars.
Description It is similar in appearance to Curio repens, but its leaves are darker green and more elongated, and its flowers are bright yellow.
terebinthus is also found on the east coast of the Mediterranean, Syria, Lebanon, and Israel, filling the same ecological niche of these species.
Many native plants are adapted to, and benefit from, periodic wildfires that occurred before and during pre-modern settlement.
Diminishing the width of the wall as it gets higher, as traditionally done in Britain, also strengthens the wall considerably.
Female spikes are approximately 2–4 centimetres (0.8–1.6 in) long and 4–6 millimetres (0.16–0.24 in) wide.
It is native to the Arizona, California, and Nevada in the United States and Baja California in Mexico.
Bouteloua chondrosioides, commonly known as sprucetop grama, is a perennial bunchgrass native to southern Arizona and northern Mexico.
In the first year of growth, plants form clumps of round, slightly wrinkled leaves, that when crushed smell like garlic.
Taxonomy Its specific epithet, coccinea, means "scarlet-dyed" (Latin), referring to the color of its flowers.
Used coffee grounds are the result of brewing coffee and are the final product after preparation of coffee.
Adenium socotranum is native exclusively to the island of Socotra, and can grow to be 4.6 metres (15 ft), but despite its small range, it is of least concern regarding endangerment.
Etymology The Latin genus name Ceanothus is derived from the Ancient Greek keánōthos (κεάνωθος) 'a spiny plant'.
Each plant has 1-5 stems that reach around 20–80 cm in length, covered in short, alternating stem leaves.
Companion planting is thought by its practitioners to assist in the growth of one or both plants involved in the association.
An easily fireable sterling alloy, EZ960 Sterling Silver Metal Clay was invented by Bill Struve from Metal Adventures, the inventor of BRONZclay™ and COPPRclay™.
Naming As a widely used garden plant, it is often referred to by the common names Perez's sea lavender and seafoam statice, as well as variations on the name of the genus (former name Statice, current name Limonium and common names sea lavender and marsh rosemary).
Augustin Pyramus de Candolle moved it to Opuntia in 1828 and Joseph Paxton published it in Echinocactus in 1840.
Description It is a succulent plant that grows to 20cm to 30cm tall and will have a width of 40cm to 60cm, forming an evergreen cluster and as well as a caudex.
The small white flowers have a rather unpleasant aroma which attracts midges and hoverflies, although the flowers usually pollinate themselves.
Salvia coccinea, the blood sage, scarlet sage, Texas sage, or tropical sage, is a herbaceous perennial in the family Lamiaceae that is widespread throughout the Southeastern United States, Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, and northern South America (Colombia, Peru, and Brazil).
Reference sources with notes The references are so far mostly from academic trial papers, experiments and generally of exploration of that field.
Description Sprucetop grama is a small drought tolerant bunchgrass that grows to around 1 foot (0.30 m) tall in the wild.
Under ideal conditions the plant can grow up to 3 feet (0.91 m) tall and exhibit turfgrass characteristics.
In 2002, Bayer CropScience was formed through Bayer's acquisition of the plant biotech branch Aventis CropScience.
Senecio tropaeolifolius, which is known as false nasturtium or nasturtium-leaf spearhead is a succulent plant in the family Asteraceae that is native to South Africa.
References External links Flora Europaea: Phalaris arundinacea Jepson Manual Treatment - taxonomy and distribution within California
During Taiwanese New Year's Eve, Taiwanese people eat mustard green (Chinese: 長年菜; pinyin: cháng nián cài) as a part of the reunion dinner, symbolizing longevity.
Sprucetop was usually found growing among other drought tolerant prairie grasses, such as Bouteloua hirsuta and Hilaria belangeri.
In 2000 StarLink, a genetically modified maize developed by Plant Genetic Systems was detected in over 300 consumer food products in the US, triggering a recall.
Symphoricarpos orbiculatus can reach a height of 6 ft (180 cm), but is typically 3–4 ft (90–120 cm).
The fruit pods are the smooth milkweed type, which split open to spill seeds along with plentiful silky hairs.
The inflorescence is a narrow or spreading series of spikelets which are green in color with areas of purple.
Description Stem and foliage Apocissus antarctica is a tendril climber with a recorded stem diameter of up to 8 cm (3.1 in).
Melica imperfecta is a species of grass known by the common name smallflower melic and little California melic.
However, it provides negligible cardenolide content, a set of protective chemicals that reduce the virulence of the OE parasite and bird predation.
Techniques Optimal grasscycle techniques include: Cutting no more than 1/3 the length of the grass, this means when lawns are growing fast, mowing about twice a week.
Scherr and Sajal Sthapit (2009), Mitigating Climate Change through Food and Land Use, Worldwatch Institute, Washington, United States of America (ISBN 9781878071910).
Etymology The genus name Cistus derives from the Ancient Greek words κίσθος (kisthos) meaning basket, while the species name salviifolius refers the wrinkled leaves similar to those of the sage.
In parts of its range, often just below the pinyon-juniper belt, it can be abundant, surrounded by low grasses and forbs that are brown most of the year; in such places chollas are conspicuous since they are the only tall and green plant.
It is used primarily for soil conservation, forage production, game cover, as an ornamental grass, in phytoremediation projects, fiber, electricity, heat production, for biosequestration of atmospheric carbon dioxide, and more recently as a biomass crop for the production of ethanol and butanol.
The leaf blades measure up to 13 cm (5.1 in) long and 5 cm (2.0 in) wide, the apex may be pointed or rounded and the base cordate.
Inspired by that conference, COG's Heritage Seed Program was initiated to help salvage Canada's crop-plant heritage, with Alex Caron as coordinator.
It can often be located in forest clearings or verges, on banks or lakeshores, and on gentle slopes.
These have the effect of bonding what would otherwise be two thin walls leaning against each other, greatly increasing the strength of the wall.
For vegetables For fruit For herbs For flowers Other See also Push–pull agricultural pest management Sustainable agriculture Sustainable landscaping Sustainable gardening References Further reading Cunningham, Sally Jean.
A grain probe is a type of trap used to monitor pests of stored grain, consisting of a long cylindrical tube with multiple holes along its length that can be inserted at various depths within grain.
It addressed the application of permaculture design to growing in major climatic and soil conditions, to the use of renewable energy and natural building methods, and to "invisible structures" of human society.
Project goal In the long term, sustainable use of the soil must be guaranteed in order to meet the needs of the world's population.
Charred remains of cowpeas have been found in rock shelters located in Central Ghana dating to the 2nd millennium BCE.
It is closely related to Sedum dendroideum and would look similar to it, but 'dendroideum' can be differentiated by the existence of a line of subepidermal glands on its margins near the leaf tips.
Pistacia aethiopica, Pistacia atlantica) can exist as small bushes and shrubs due to the extremes of their habitat, adverse conditions, or the excessive consumption by wildlife or livestock that hinders growth.
Aquatic arthropod traps Aquatic interception traps typically involve mesh funnels or conical structures that guide insects into a jar or bottle for collecting.
Many older walls were constructed from stones and boulders cleared from the fields during preparation for agriculture (field stones) although some used stone quarried nearby.
The individual stems are 6–10 cm diameter, with five (occasionally six) ribs, with areoles spaced 1.5–3 cm apart.
There is a close correlation between Ni tolerance, root His concentration, and ATP-PRT transcript abundance.
Native plants are adapted to the local climate and geology, and often require less maintenance than exotic species.
Though this plant does have antimicrobial properties, it has an overall weak effect on bacterial communities found in soil, which only occurs under temporally specific conditions.
scrobicollis, which is monophagous and has been specifically studied since 2002, continues to be blocked, despite researchers' many petitions for approval.
They prefer places oriented toward the sun and well-drained soil, but grow well in the bottom of ravines.
Usage Precautions It is not recommended to burn dried used coffee grounds, as they give off hazardous nitrogen oxides when burnt.
Grasshoppers and some beetles are attracted to lights at a long range but are repelled by it at short range.
Distribution and habitat It grows in rainforest, occurring along almost the entire east coast of Australia, from the region near Cooktown in northeast Queensland to Eden in southeast New South Wales.
Zaluzianskya is a genus of flowering plants now regarded as a member of the Scrophulariaceae, the figwort family.
Great Garden Companions: A companion planting system for a beautiful, chemical-free vegetable garden.
Distribution Symphoricarpos orbiculatus is native to the eastern and central United States as well as central Canada (Ontario) and northeastern Mexico (Coahuila, Nuevo León).
Flowers are spikate, notable for their bright orange anthers, and are sent up in July through August.
