acquired certain Kerr assets, including factories, in 1992 and the Kerr brand of glass home canning jars was absorbed into Alltrista in 1996.
Product recalls 2014: contaminated meat In 2014, Nestle USA recalled 238,000 cases of its Hot Pockets because they may have contained meat from a massive recall of about 8.7 million pounds (3,900,000 kilograms) of meat from "diseased and unsound" animals.
Wine racks made of this material are normally used as ornamental pieces as they come in fluid shapes and can become real pieces of art.
The development of genetically modified food has led to one of the most persistent and divisive debates about mandatory labelling, which is one of the central topics in genetically modified food controversies.
The retort pouch construction varies from one application to another, as a liquid product needs different barrier properties than a dry product, and similarly an acidic product needs different chemical resistance than a basic product.
In 2018, Schanes, Dobernig and Gözet conducted a systematic review of household food waste practices and concluded that households face conflicts between good intentions to prevent food waste and preferences regarding taste, freshness, cleanliness and food safety.
The community garden won £1000 in funding from Aviva Community Fund in 2017, this was used for resources such as seeds to kickstart the growing of edible plants.
The allowable storage time for maize was found to decrease with an increase in mechanical damage (broken/cracked kernels).
In the United States, chains such as Dairy Queen, Carvel, and Tastee-Freez helped popularize soft-serve ice cream.
The user is supposed to search for the wines in his cellar on CellarTracker's database and then enter number of bottles and price (optional).
Anti-brown-bag law in New York, USA In 1967, it was stated that "brown-bagging is the genteel disguise ...
Sometimes called "green" milk jugs, they are not green in color, but rather are claimed to be environmentally friendly.
The tun is the approximate volume of a cylinder with both diameter and height of 42 in (110 cm), as the US gallon was originally a cylinder 7 by 6 in (180 by 150 mm) (diameter × height).
Sorbet (, ) is a frozen dessert made using ice combined with fruit juice, fruit purée, or other ingredients, such as wine, liqueur, or honey.
FOI also supports the country in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), by promoting food sovereignty and implementing responsible patterns of production and consumption.
Aseptic carton Cartons for liquids can be fabricated from laminates of liquid packaging board (LPB), foil, and polyethylene.
Unlike traditional Nalgene containers, this item can be damaged and potentially ruined by filling it with very hot water.
In 2010 BirdsEye Iglo Group purchased the Italian frozen food business Compagnia Surgelati Italiana SPA from Unilever for €0.8bn, and reunited the Findus brand in Sweden into the group that had previously been managed as one business under Unilever until 2006.
It is traditionally woven by hand and may involve additional physical support from other people, which usually comprise other family members or neighbours.
Production Industrial production of HDPE from ethylene happens through either Ziegler-Natta polymerization or the Phillips slurry process.
History Multilayer packaging was developed in the mid-20th century to overcome the performance limits of single-layer materials.
India Milk bags are commonplace in India, with an estimated 30% of milk sold in the country being packaged this way.
Blackstone Group and BC Partners made an unsuccessful bid of €2.5bn to buy Iglo from Permira in 2012.
With the advent of such facilities close to production areas, harvested fruits and vegetables could be preserved by freezing rather than by canning.
They may have either batter or breadcrumbs around the outside as casing, although the coating is normally breadcrumbs.
Polystyrene copolymers are also produced; these contain one or more other monomers in addition to styrene.
According to legend, it was made to contain the oil presented by the Virgin Mary to St Thomas of Canterbury.
Two principal types of amphorae existed: the neck amphora, in which the neck and body meet at a sharp angle; and the one-piece amphora, in which the neck and body form a continuous curve upwards.
An oenochoe, also spelled oinochoe (Ancient Greek: οἰνοχόη; from Ancient Greek: οἶνος, oînos, "wine", and Ancient Greek: χέω, khéō, lit.
The almonds are white for a wedding, First Communion or Confirmation; pink or light-blue for the birthday or baptism of a girl or boy; red for a graduation; and silver or gold for 25 or 50 year anniversaries.
Rationing during World War II forced her to cut back production due to the restricted availability of quality ingredients.
The service was broadcast on several national news networks and was attended by President Bill Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, Senator Ted Kennedy and Senator John Kerry (who flew non-stop from Burma, where he had been attending a diplomatic function).
Location After the dissolution of the monasteries, the buttery in large houses and colleges became a place for barrels, bottles, or butts of alcoholic drink, and from which they were brought up and served into the Great Hall.
Among these ingredients are white truffles from Alba, located in the Piedmont region of Italy, a place known as the premier origin of some of the most carefully cultivated and highly sought-after white truffles in the world.
In 1991 it entered the Athens Stock Exchange and in 1994 it was by bought by Delta dairy company (Daskalopoulos).
As late as the mid-17th century, French vintners did not use cork stoppers, using instead oil-soaked rags stuffed into the necks of bottles.
Programs Leket to Table: Meal Rescue Leket Israel rescues surplus hot meals and prepared food from 300 suppliers including hotels, army bases, corporate cafeterias, and others, providing a crucial daily source of nutrition to thousands of Israel’s needy.
Baines-Mosier Cabinet Company of Allegan, Michigan, was established in 1906, and had 24 employees in 1915.
However, Alexis Lichine says that low humidity can be a problem because it may cause organic corks to dry prematurely.
In 1803, furniture designer Thomas Sheraton described the piece as: "Cellaret, amongst cabinet makers, denotes a convenience for wine, or wine cistern.
For example, they can contribute up to 40% by weight to intravenous medical bags and up to 80% by weight in medical tubing.
In 1941 this company was acquired by the confectionery manufacturer Freja Marabou and was subsequently renamed Findus Canning Factory.
Because the sleeve prevented use of the weapon's regular sling some troops fashioned ad-hoc slings from rope that could be used over the Pliofilm.
A variety with a sweet cheese filling is served as a starter or main dish in dairy meals, specifically on Shavuot.
Recent studies have shown that bruchids sealed in PICS bags do not die from asphyxiation, but rather from dehydration.
After slaughter, care must be taken not to infect the meat through contact with any of the various sources of infection in the abattoir, notably the hides and soil adhering to them, water used for washing and cleaning, the dressing implements and the slaughterhouse personnel.
See also List of ice cream brands References External links Official website Guild of Fine Food video reviewing the product
See also Dabbawala Lunch box Sagejū, historical Japanese picnic container set to carry bento The Lunchbox (2013 Indian film) References Bibliography J.
Whipped cream is often used for frosting, as a complement to the two other textures, and because many typical frostings will not adhere successfully to frozen cake.
Criminal charges Involuntary manslaughter charges against Levesque and Barnes were initially dismissed, reinstated on appeal, and finally dismissed in January 2010.
Production of Pliofilm was hampered during World War II because the Japanese occupation of much of Southeast Asia cut off much of the rubber supply.
However, Linda Jones Roccos suggests that the maidens wearing both peplos and mantle implies they are kanephoroi, which would be consistent with the evidence of contemporary vase painting and wedding iconography.
This gradual degradation is desirable for a support structure, because it gradually transfers the load to the body (e.g., to the bone) as that area heals.
After taking apart the device, venture capitalist Ben Einstein considered the press to be "an incredibly complicated piece of engineering", which likely arose from a lack of cost constraints during the design process.
Praeger created the California Veggie Burger, which contains carrots, spinach, peas, edamame, and oat bran.
Totino's was founded as a restaurant in the 1950s in Minneapolis, Minnesota, which expanded to frozen foods in the 1960s.
Depending on the need, this paperboard can be waxed or coated with polyethylene to form a moisture barrier.
The Bocksbeutel (German: [ˈbɔksˌbɔɪ̯tl̩] ) is a type of wine bottle with the form of a flattened ellipsoid.
In another myth, the cornucopia was created when Heracles (Roman Hercules) wrestled with the river god Achelous and ripped off one of his horns; river gods were sometimes depicted as horned.
The first baleen (suqqaq, qupitalik, savigaaq in Iñupiaq) basket (aguummak, aguummaq in Iñupiaq) was made at Utqiagvik after the termination of commercial whaling.
These paper and plastic containers are lighter, cheaper and safer to both manufacture and ship to consumers.
Men of wealth had as many as three cellarettes at a time as a status symbol, not necessarily indicating one was a heavy drinker.
Timeline 1992: Weight Watchers Smart Ones line launched as a sub-brand of Weight Watchers® frozen meals.
In Arab countries they are called safartas (سفرطاس, from Turkish "sefer tası" meaning 'travel bowls').
However, the CIVC still recommends storing Champagne on its side, stating that: Champagne is ready for drinking upon release, matured to perfection in the producer’s cellars.
After the Korean War, with the introduction of condensed milk, syrup, and chocolate from the United States, together with the mass migration of Korean immigrants who brought their culinary cuisine to the US, Korean bingsu began to be more diverse.
Due to its porosity, fired earthenware, with a water absorption of 5-8%, must be glazed to be watertight.
Food safety regulations limit the amount of pathogens such as Listeria to safe limits (100 CFU/g in Europe).
Health concern Plastic materials are widely used in the food industry due to their low price and convenience; however, there has been an increased health concern because of the possibility of releasing undesirable chemicals from plastic materials into food products.
Feeding Hong Kong is regarded as a food recycling operations, rather than a welfare group, so it does not receive public funding and relied on help from volunteers and donors.
Initial Uno Express locations were inside BJ's Wholesale Club stores, by 2012 all had closed and converted to Dunkin' Donuts or Subway locations.
In the Book of Judges, Gideon gives empty pitchers containing lamps to three hundred men divided into three companies.
Medical use Thermal pharmaceutical bags are designed to transport temperature-sensitive medications, protecting them from damaging temperatures, shocks, and light.
Environmental issues Foam takeout containers entirely made out of polystyrene foam affect the environment as they do not biodegrade easily.
The packaging consists of a natural soft membrane (made from food particles, alginate/chitosan, and nutritive ions) that encloses the food or drink, optionally protected by a hard shell that is edible or biodegradable.
As early as 1908, the Chico Ice and Cold Storage company in California began to offer rental locker space.
In 2007, the site of the first Lender's bagel bakery was dedicated as a playground; it was named after one of Harry Lender's sons: “Murray Lender Playground”.
Scientific workflow systems assist scientists and programmers with tracking their data through all transformations, analyses, and interpretations.
In Canada, the brand Le Sieur has been used since at least 1964, instead of Le Sueur – presumably to avoid the implications of the French word sueur (i.e., "sweat").
The role was given to a virgin selected from amongst the aristocratic or Eupatrid families of Athens whose purity and youth was thought essential to ensure a successful sacrifice.
Some believe this re-bottling exposes the champagne to greater oxidation and therefore results in an inferior product compared to champagne which remains in the bottle in which it was fermented.
In side-by-side comparisons for white wines, one panel had shown preference for non-corked wines at the level of 20 ng/L of TCA, while another study found the "rejection threshold" to be between 3.1 and 3.7 ng/L.
During the Tang dynasty, ewers fashioned from glazed earthenware bore illustrations of Persian textiles and metalwork and depicted increased cultural diversity in populated Chinese cities.
In the 1990s, Russia started importing foreign brands of ice cream, and the state standards were dropped.
History Gastronorm originated in Switzerland during the 1960s when various associations gathered and agreed on standard dimensions for movable kitchen inserts and containers such as pans, trays, wire racks as well as other kitchen utensils and equipment.
One Sam's Club store reported fitting 224 square gallon jugs in an area that only held 80 traditional one gallon jugs.
In 2021 Iron Gate launched Canada's first auction dedicated to wine and spirits and as of YE2022 became the largest wine auction in the country with auctions frequently hammering over $1,000,000 per sale.
Form While the term "olive jar" was used in archaeology from early in the 20th century, John Mann Goggin created the first typology for olive jars in the mid-20th century.
Availability Fowler's Vacola products are still produced by the original Fowlers Vacola company, and are available from some hardware stores, and directly from the company via their online store.
Bear canisters are seeing increased popularity in areas where bears have become habituated to human presence, and are required in some places, such as Yosemite National Park in the United States.
TCA is studied in detail and considered to be the main source of the issue (in some surveys, the TCA was present in all the bottles assessed to be tainted).
The dessert takes the form of a ball that is composed of two or more flavors of gelato, often with melted chocolate inserted into the center (following the original recipe) or alternatively, with either fruit syrup or frozen fruit—typically raspberry, strawberry or cherry—in the center.
Another myth suggests that Charles I of England was so impressed by the "frozen snow" that he offered his own ice cream maker a lifetime pension in return for keeping the formula secret, so that ice cream could be a royal prerogative.
The oldest known document containing an image of an hórreo is the Cantigas de Santa Maria (song CLXXXVII) written during the reign of Alfonso X of Castile in the 13th century.
In other countries Taiwan The bento made its way to Taiwan in the first half of the 20th century during the Japanese colonial period and remains popular to the present day.
Among Agnes Blackwell Herrick's papers was a copy of the Paris Embassy's Dinner Party Record from 1921 to 1922.
With one hand on the outside and one on the inside, the potter's hands would press together and form the upward curve of the hydria.
In areas where grain has always been sold immediately after harvest, storage areas may not exist for PICS bags.
The wine-storage area of the buttery, in keeping with the higher value of its contents, was often more richly decorated to reflect the higher status of its function.
One jar from those wrecks, containing pitch, had a thin piece of leather placed over the opening with a cork stopper inserted over it, so that the leather may have acted as a gasket.
Wine bottles are traditionally sealed with a cork, but screw-top caps are becoming popular, and there are several other methods used to seal a bottle.
See also Frozen food Canned food Cold chain References External links How Frozen Vegetables are Made
Disposable containers are often made of paper or paperboard, plastic (including plastic foam), or aluminum.
Route 169 an enormous wooden sign of the Jolly Green Giant, along with the Little Green Sprout, is visible with the caption "Welcome to the Valley." Sixty miles (97 km) further south on US 169, in the city of Blue Earth, Minnesota, stands a 55-foot (17 m) fiberglass statue of the Jolly Green Giant.
From the same source come the German Krapfen ("deep-fried pastry") and its East Central German dialectal variant Kräppel, as well the Silesian Krepel ("doughnut").
They continued to be used through the first half of the 20th century; however, usage began to decline with the introduction of free-flowing salt in 1911, and they have been almost entirely replaced by salt shakers.
Losses are still fairly high with this technique, though it has been shown in some instances to keep tubers for 2–4 months.
The USDA lists the cutoffs for broken maize as anything that falls through a 12/64 round-hole sieve, and broken soybeans as anything that falls through an 8/64 round-hole sieve.
The bonding together of the fibres during production improves not only the strength, porosity and elasticity, but also the tear-resistance.
In 1921, the Eskimo Pie chocolate bar was invented in Iowa by a pharmacy owner named Chris Nelson, who was inspired by a boy named Douglas Ressenden who could not decide between candy and ice cream; a patent was awarded in 1922, but invalidated in 1928.
Modern innovations in the United States Congregations and synods belonging to the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America have made Easter baskets to be given to needy children or elderly persons.
Beginning around 8500 BC, however, they were moved inside houses, and by 7500 BC special rooms were used for storage.
Machines for producing these do not require a pressure chamber, and as a result, they are much cheaper and easier to maintain due to their simpler mechanics.
The interior diameter of an average small qullqa was 3.23 metres (10.6 ft); larger qullqas have a diameter of around 3.5–4.0 metres (11.5–13.1 ft).
Security researchers are interested in data provenance because it can analyze suspicious data and make large opaque systems transparent.
Over the years King of Pops has made almost 500 flavors, most of which are between three and five ingredients.
Swanson (1879–1949) was a Swedish immigrant who worked on a farm in Blair, Nebraska, until he moved to Omaha.
Moisture control Grain must be kept away from moisture for as long as possible to preserve it in good condition and prevent mold growth.
Other non-luxury ingredients include milk, sugar, egg yolk, rice and rice malt, black truffle, brewed alcohol, cashew nuts and unspecified dairy products.
Recently the bottle has become a standard unit of volume to describe sales in the wine industry, measuring 750 millilitres (26.40 imp fl oz; 25.36 US fl oz).
The statue was first unveiled in 1978 and was set on its permanent base on July 6, 1979, at 43°39′02″N 94°5′46″W.
Many have survived, some being renovated to commemorate the practice, while others have been dismantled or left to decay.
Measuring Broken/Cracked Kernels There are many methods available for determining mechanical grain damage.
Business development By 2001 the retail value of the brand was over £50 million and it had become one of the top 100 brands in Britain.
In 2004 a joint Swedish-Danish research team found a statistical association between allergies in children and indoor air levels of DEHP and BBzP (butyl benzyl phthalate), which is used in vinyl flooring.
Some stands remain in the countryside as historical features, but most have been dismantled or left to decay.
An innovative picnic hamper advertised for American families in 1953 was designed to clamp over the seat at the back of the family car.
Manufacturers claim that this rectangular design has cut water use by 67% to 70%, according to one dairy, since there are no crates to be cleaned; the absence of dirty crates also reduces the risk of jugs carrying contamination.
The British dominated the world shipping industry and began fitting their ships for cold air containers, and built new refrigerated steamers.
The circular interior of the game larder at Holkham Hall in Norfolk is lined with alabaster; designed by Samuel Wyatt, the octagonal building dates from 1803.
There is also a translation into Koine Greek known as the Septuagint, made in the last few centuries BCE.
Up until this point, frozen salads had existed, but they were only readily available to those who could afford and host large salt and ice freezers and to those who could visit the expensive hotels and restaurants that would serve them.
1 July 2002, https://www.ift.org/news-and-publications/food-technology-magazine/issues/2002/july/features/the-paper-beverage-carton-past-and-future.
Dip & Squeeze is the brand name of a type of packaging for tomato ketchup used by Heinz Tomato Ketchup.
Commercial food logistics Grain and beans are stored in tall grain elevators, almost always at a railhead near the point of production.
The dough is allowed to ferment for a few days, before part of the dough is cooked and then mixed with uncooked dough.
Operation Most of the goods in the storehouse are purchased with fast offering funds or produced on church-owned agricultural property.
In January 2025, the corporate About Us page claimed locations in Honduras and Qatar but listed foreign locations only in Saudi Arabia and India.
A Chick-Fil-A executive said that some consumers at the chain were hoarding the packets after they were introduced.
It could be made thinner by stretching whilst being heated and thicknesses of 0.00075–0.025 inches (0.019–0.635 mm) were sold.
This is causing the paper to elongate 4% in machine direction and 10% in cross direction before busting.
Lean Cuisine is a brand of frozen entrées and dinners sold in the United States by Nestlé Prepared Foods, in Canada by Nestlé Canada, and in Australia by Vesco (under a licensing agreement with Nestlé).
Similarly, the development of Sheffield plate (18th century), then electroplating (19th century), led to mass production of affordable silver-plated wares, including salt cellars.
Infestation by insects such as the maize weevil can sometimes be easier to identify visually, but difficult to quantify on a large scale.
Solar direct-drive refrigerators don't require batteries, instead using thermal energy to solar power.
834/2007 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 — on the provision of food information to consumers.
An octagonal room was constructed for a wine library and a round domed room was added in the complex's center.
With flexible packaging (plastic films, foils, laminates, etc), the choice of materials and process conditions are an important decision for packaging engineers.
In the late 2010s, during a period of long stretches of dry weather" on the Island, potato growers in the area around Spring Valley, Prince Edward Island began to construct large holding ponds of water "seeking to improve potato yields".
Pliny identified three different types of coopers: ordinary coopers, wine coopers and coopers who made large casks.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
Many different varieties of frozen and chilled ready meals are now generally available in the UK, including "gourmet" recipes, organic and vegetarian dishes, traditional British and foreign cuisine, and smaller children's meals.
Wafer ice cream vendors also sell the same blocks of ice cream on slices of multicoloured bread, on cones or in cups instead of sandwiched between wafers.
Revival efforts by Indian Railways and criticism In 2004, the Indian Railways (then under the leadership of minister Laloo Prasad Yadav) attempted to revive the use of kulhars for tea and other beverages sold at railway stations and aboard trains.
Memorials A memorial service and procession for the firefighters were held in Worcester's Centrum Centre on December 9, 1999.
GrapeStories relied on the same database as CellarTracker, but was intended to be a more user-friendly approach to tracking wine and sharing wine experiences as well as providing a better interface.
In its final form, the thin cork liner created a gas-tight seal, while the metal cap held it in place with a series of crimped "flutes" that locked under the bottle's head.
History While ice cream sandwiches have been sold in New York City since the 1890s, New York lawyer Richard LaMotta created the Chipwich in 1978.
The Gatt agreements signed in Marrakesh in 1994 required the EU to reduce its export aid, and Doux lost half its export market.
History Poire belle Hélène was invented around 1864 by Auguste Escoffier, who created it as a tribute to the popularity of Offenbach’s operetta La belle Hélène.
The technology is the result of a project that started in 1997 and staffed by a team of 55 researchers with a budget cost of 15 billion won (US$49.2 million).
The pitcher of Marwan Ibn Mohammad, on display at the Museum of Islamic Art in Cairo, predates the 8th century.
Steel cans also extend the product's shelf-life, allowing longer sell-by and use-by dates and reducing waste.
Often, it is made of jute and has a content of 60 kilograms (130 pounds); this type of bag originated in Brazil and became a worldwide standard.
Medical use Some studies have suggested that wrapping premature babies in plastic wrap immediately after birth may help prevent low temperature before arrival to the neonatal intensive care unit.
As the volume is reduced during the reaction (PVC is denser than VCM), water is continually added to the mixture to maintain the suspension.
History The company started from a small factory on Balakong Road, Selangor with only 5 workers, producing a wide range of ice cream such as ice cream sticks, ice cream in cups, ice cream in cones, ice cream in tubs and ice cream with wafers but only limited to Malaysia during that time.
An 1897 recipe published in The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book by American writer Fannie Farmer was a pineapple–chestnut ice cream with candied fruit and raisins, served with maraschino syrup.
Variations are countless, but ice cream, flan, and fruit in syrup (peach or pineapple) are its staple ingredients.
Commercial heat sources for self-heating food packaging use an exothermic (heat releasing) reaction, for which there are several common formulations.
Together, FOI, along with its donors and volunteers, has distributed 1,246 tons or 88,095 food packages to FOI clients, including children, victims of natural disasters, the elderly, informal workers, and others.
Instead, it is the information contained within the label that can provide consumers with such knowledge.
The screens passage generally had two or three doors on the side opposite its entrances into the Great Hall, which led, respectively, to the buttery, kitchen, and pantry, each of which formed separate household departments.
The simple purpose of the stand was to facilitate collection of milk churns by cart or lorry and so were built at a convenient height for easy transfer.
ConAgra sells a broad array of dishes through its Healthy Choice brand, including frozen dinners, side dishes, cold cuts and other meats, canned soups, ice cream, bread, pasta sauce, and popcorn.
Name variations In Canada, corn dogs are often called "Pogos" after the popular brand produced by Conagra.
Busto-Zapico In a paper published in 2020, Miguel Busto-Zapico analysed 40 jars found in Spain, all made in Seville.
Development and delays When Grepper launched the Kickstarter campaign for the Coolest, the company planned to deliver to backers their Coolest reward in February 2015.
However, the problem with an icebox was that the cabinet housing was large, but the actual refrigerated space was relatively small.
Charitable hamper There is a long tradition of community and social philanthropy and charity related to hampers, in which persons or community groups donate to needy people a hamper of food, clothing, toiletries, cleaning products, or other household necessities, to assist with their family economy.
The side branches mean that its molecules are less tightly packed and less crystalline, and therefore its density is lower.
Most champagne houses are unable to carry out secondary fermentation in bottles larger than a magnum due to the difficulty in riddling large, heavy bottles.
Sweeteners, flavorings, and colorings are then mixed in, and the yogurt mixture is cooled at a temperature of −6 to −2 °C (28 °F).
Jeremiah 24 is a part of the Eighth prophecy (Jeremiah 21-24) in the section of Prophecies of Destruction (Jeremiah 1-25).
The average weight of an empty 750 mL wine bottle is 500 g (and can range from 300 to 900 g), which makes the glass 40% of the total weight of the full bottle.
According to estimates from the Aluminum Association, a large amount of aluminium remains unrecycled in the US, where roughly $700 million worth of cans end up in landfills each year.
When a stream of water is injected into the bottle and impacts the punt, it is distributed throughout the bottom of the bottle and removes residues.
It allows the sterile packaging of a wide variety of food and drink handled by aseptic processing and is used as an alternative to traditional industrial canning methods.
This would reduce the cost of transportation and its carbon footprint, and provide a local market for recycled green glass.
Other artistic depictions were provided by Botticelli (Banchetto per Nastagio degli Onesti) and Ghirlandaio (Buonomini di San Martino and The Birth of John the Baptist).
This is a common approach in industrial food production, but concerns about health hazards associated with trans fats have led to their strict control in several jurisdictions.
Purpose A 1852 publication lists other produce being sold in punnets in British markets, including sea kale, mushrooms, small salad and tomatoes.
They are born within social contexts of poverty and unemployment, as subsistence organizations or "popular micro-associations that developed to satisfy a basic and functional need", hunger.
Incineration: PLA can be incinerated without producing chlorine-containing chemicals or heavy metals because it contains only carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen atoms.
On August 28, 2006, it was confirmed that Unilever had agreed to the sale of the UK brand, held since the late 1930s, to private equity house Permira for £1.2bn.
See also Internet of things – Internet-like structure connecting everyday physical objects Value proposition – Promise of value to be delivered, communicated, and acknowledged References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2017-08-24)
The preforms can be transported and stored by the thousand in a much smaller space than would finished containers, for the second stage to be carried out on the user site on a 'just in time' basis.
Direct contact freezing puts the product directly in contact with the refrigerant, while indirect contact freezing uses a plate in between.
They chopped up the slivers, added flour and seasoning, then pushed the mash through holes and sliced off pieces of the extruded mixture.
On June 1, 2023, Tupperware stopped supplying an independent sales force in the UK and Ireland and moved fully to selling online and via the shopping TV channel Ideal World, shortly before Ideal World itself went out of business in early July 2023.
The block has four standardized variants defined to specify emoji-style (U+FE0F VS16) or text presentation (U+FE0E VS15) for the two emoji, both of which default to a text presentation.
Historical parallels During the Stalinist purges, Jews who were accused of being "rootless cosmopolitans" had their names placed in single parentheses.
According to the Pampangan Academy (Akademiang Kapampángan), the Batiáuan revision complicates Kapampangan writing and confuses adherents of their proposed orthography.
Less common adverbs, including all those that end -ly, are less likely to need hyphens." In the 19th century, it was common to hyphenate adverb–adjective modifiers with the adverb ending in -ly (e.g., "a craftily-constructed chair").
Association with shouting or yelling Messages completely in capital letters are often equated on social media to shouting and other impolite or argumentative behaviors.
The diaeresis can be combined with the acute, grave and circumflex but never with breathings, since the letter with the diaeresis cannot be the first vowel of the word.
Lateral masking is a problem for the human visual perception of identical or similar entities in close proximity.
Types The following are examples of types of parenthetical phrases: Introductory phrase: Once upon a time, my father ate a muffin.
The older MS-DOS filesystems FAT12 and FAT16 were case-insensitive and not case-preserving, so that a file whose name is entered as readme.txt or ReadMe.txt is saved as README.TXT.
The sign equivalent to Iberian s is transcribed as z in Celtiberian, because it is assumed that it sometimes expresses the fricative result of an ancient dental stop (d), while the Iberian sign ś is transcribed as s.
It is used by scholars of the Hittite language to separate clitics from the word to which they attach; this usage has been adopted by the Leipzig Glossing Rules.
Italian orthography, which is shallow overall, offers clear examples of differential directionality in depth.
In the phrase dos and don'ts, most modern style guides disparage spelling the first word as do's; however, there is a lack of consensus and certainly the use of an apostrophe continues, legitimately, in which "the apostrophe of plurality occurs in the first word but not the second".
Vertical lines Ancient inscribed and cuneiform scripts such as Anatolian hieroglyphs frequently used short vertical lines to separate words, as did Linear B.
For example, in the International Phonetic Alphabet used in linguistics, ⟨a⟩ and ⟨ɑ⟩ represent different sounds, even though they are allographs of a lower-case ⟨a⟩ in normal English usage.
If A is ordered before B, there is a counterbleeding relationship if B destroys the environment that A applies to and has already applied and so B has missed its chance to bleed A.
In current practice, interrobang-like emphatic ambiguity in Hispanic languages is usually achieved by including both sets of punctuation marks, one inside the other: (¿¡De verdad!?
In his studies on what is now called Jungian archetypes, a sign stands for something known, as a word stands for its referent.
The particle ⟨не⟩ and the preposition ⟨без⟩ are written unchanged, independently of pronunciation: ⟨не быў⟩, instead of ⟨ня быў⟩; and ⟨без мамы⟩, instead of ⟨бяз мамы⟩ (compare with English definite article "the").
Drinov also believed that the letter щ and the silent yers should be removed, however, this was never put into practice.
Since, however, in commonly used modes, an individual tengwa was equivalent to a consonant, the term tengwa in the fiction became equivalent to "consonant sign", and the vowel signs were known as ómatehtar.
These keys can then be efficiently compared byte by byte in order to collate or sort them according to the rules of the language, with options for ignoring case, accents, etc.
Their prophecy so remained and was explained by the prophet Ezekiel: "So says the Lord, G-d: Are you the one of whom I have spoken in the days of yore through prophets of Israel?
In response to intense public criticism, businesses, organizations, and governments may take symbolic actions rather than, or in addition to, directly addressing the identified problems.
Shackle suggests that the Gurmukhī script was not favoured by Punjabi Muslims due to its religious (Sikh) connotations.
This is a spacing character, not to be confused with the alternative (below-letter) form of the ligature tie (a͜b U+035C ◌͜◌ COMBINING DOUBLE BREVE BELOW), which is a combining character.
Methods of romanization include transliteration, for representing written text, and transcription, for representing the spoken word, and combinations of both.
H-system The original method of working around the diacritics was developed by the creator of Esperanto himself, L.
It is also traditionally used to mark the division between lines of verse printed as prose (the style preferred by Oxford University Press), though it is now often replaced by the forward slash.
This system was presented to the International Romani Union in 1990, who adopted it as the organization's "official alphabet".
Recognising the lack of teachers in the language, Chesswas took the opportunity to publish a textbook for stations where no teachers of the language were available.
Looijenga, Tineke (2003), Texts & Contexts of the Oldest Runic Inscriptions (PDF), Leiden: Koninklijke Brill NV, ISBN 90-04-12396-2, archived from the original (PDF) on 2022-05-08, retrieved 2019-09-23 == External links ==
The straight apostrophe ' (the "ASCII apostrophe", U+0027 ' APOSTROPHE) is even more ambiguous, as it could also be intended as a left or right quotation mark, or a prime symbol.
According to the Yiddish scholar Dovid Katz, "prejudices and misconceptions" concerning Yiddish were promulgated by both antisemites and well-meaning Jewish assimilationists during the 19th century, both of whom regarded Yiddish as a degenerated form of German.
Matthijs Siegenbeek (Dutch pronunciation: [mɑˈtɛis ˈsiɣə(m)ˌbeːk]; 23 June 1774 in Amsterdam – 26 November 1854 in Leiden) was a Dutch academic.
Leibniz wrote about the alphabet of human thought and Alexander von Humboldt corresponded with Peter Stephen Du Ponceau who proposed a universal phonetic alphabet.
The randomized capitalization leads to the flow of words being broken, making it harder for the text to be read as it disrupts word identification even when the size of the letters is the same as in uppercase or lowercase.
Although the first example of written Romani dates from 1542, it is not until the twentieth century that vernacular writing by native Romani people arose.
The Babylonian Talmud discusses why the Hebrew Bible in Leviticus 23:42–43 writes for the plural word 'booths' the Hebrew word סֻּכֹּת (in defective scriptum), but in the verse that immediately follows makes use of the plural word in its usual form, סֻּכּוֹת.
It is currently edited by Mike Zender of the University of Cincinnati, which publishes and provides administrative offices for the journal.
Computer encoding Unicode encodes the daṇḍas as U+0964 । DEVANAGARI DANDA and U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA.
Rabbi Jedidiah Norzi (1560–1626) wrote a popular work on Hebrew orthography contained in the Five Books of Moses, and in the five Megillot, with examples of plene and defective writings, which was later named Minḥat Shai.
Whole language and related areas Whole language has the reputation of being a meaning-based method of teaching reading that emphasizes literature and text comprehension.
In a letter to the English Journal, Peter Brodie stated that apostrophes are "largely decorative ...
In addition to the unusual spelling system used the manuscript is notable for several other reasons.
The Ukrainian orthography (Ukrainian: Український правопис, romanized: Ukrainskyi pravopys) is the orthography for the Ukrainian language, a system of generally accepted rules that determine the ways of transmitting speech in writing.
The Latin alphabet has been preferred among Amazigh linguists and researchers, and also has a great deal of established writing, including newspapers, periodicals, and magazines.
The plays of Shakespeare show capitalization both of new lines and sentences, proper nouns, and some significant common nouns and verbs.
Another example of using a structured approach to teach reading is the foundational-skills curriculum, UFLI Foundations, developed by researchers at the University of Florida Literacy Institute.
Discussion of how to harmonize these with other systems led to several largely abortive proposals such as the African Reference Alphabet and the World Orthography.
References Sources Dictionary.com – Tittle External links Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon "Tittle" on Everything2
See also Vertical bar – Typographic symbol, | Pilcrow – Symbol (¶) to identify a paragraph, the latin character-set equivalent of the double daṇḍa Footnotes References External links The dictionary definition of danda at Wiktionary The dictionary definition of दण्ड at Wiktionary
The hyphen may be used between vowel letters (e.g., ee, ea, ei) to indicate that they do not form a digraph.
As, in these languages, use of script often has cultural or political connotations, proclamation of an official script is sometimes criticized as having a goal of influencing culture or politics or both.
800–1100) From the early Viking Age, the Younger Futhark inscription Ög43, from Östergötland, Sweden, features a unique case of an ideographic rune, namely an Elder Futhark d-rune ᛞ (early Old Norse: *dagʀ), used to represent the carvers name.
Everyday use of diacritics for Filipino is, however, uncommon, and meant only to distinguish between homonyms between a word with the usual penultimate stress and one with a different stress placement.
Tsade (also spelled ṣade, ṣādē, ṣaddi, ṣad, tzadi, sadhe, tzaddik) is the eighteenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Phoenician ṣādē 𐤑, Hebrew ṣādī צ‎, Aramaic ṣāḏē 𐡑, Syriac ṣāḏē ܨ, Ge'ez ṣädäy ጸ, and Arabic ṣād ص‎.
Only with the three velar consonants, which like most Russian consonants have both a hard and a soft form, does the spelling rule actually reflect phonetically based pronunciation.
Some users of keyboards with Caps Lock on the left remap the keys to exchange Control and Caps Lock, finding the traditional location more ergonomic for using programs benefiting from use of the Control key.
He describes the use of the asterisk and the dagger as: "an asterisk makes a light shine, the obelisk cuts and pierces".
However, the practice is not unified when writing initial letters of personal names (first name and surname), for example Jan Chudoba can be abbreviated both J.
History In 1496, the semicolon ; is attested in Pietro Bembo's book De Aetna printed by Aldo Manuzio.
Orthographic regularity and depth Writing systems, especially alphabets, often include characters that can represent multiple sound values, or conversely sound values that can be represented by multiple characters – this phenomenon is referred to as polyvalence.
It is a particular graphical representation, in a particular typeface (or computer font), of an element of written language.
The oldest inscriptions in the southeastern Iberian script date to the 4th century BCE, while the most recent ones date from the end of the 2nd century BCE.
Syllabograms in syllabaries are analogous to letters in alphabets, which represent individual phonemes, or logograms in logographies, which represent morphemes.
This strategy is also followed with the ambiguous letters е, ю, and я in final syllables, for instance in юнь /jyn/ cheap.
OpenType provides support for transformations from normal letters to petite caps by two feature tags, pcap and c2pc.
Nevertheless, since 1991 the ligature ⟨և⟩ is oftentimes intentionally avoided in some print media, where ⟨եվ⟩ or ⟨եւ⟩ is used instead.
According to tradition, the Greeks had acquired the ability to write, among other things, from the Egyptians through Pythagoras (c.
Capital letters have been widely used in printed headlines from the early days of newspapers until the 1950s.
A readable orthography will avoid situations in which a reader is faced with severe lateral masking.
Although their Adobe glyph names are 'letter with comma', their names in the Unicode Standard are 'letter with a cedilla'.
The printed form is called uchen script while the hand-written cursive forms used in everyday writing are called umê script.
The letter Mem also had a descender 𐡌‎, however, its current final form ם‎ was a variant of מ‎ used interchangeably in all positions.
Diple obolismene was used according to Isidore to separate sentences in comedies and tragedies, so its usage was similar to that of paragraphos.
Decimals and Version Numbers: A variation of natural sort, often called version sort, is designed to handle multiple numeric segments separated by dots (e.g., 1.2.10 vs 1.2.2).
English is unusual because it combines deep orthography, with multiple possible sounds for many letters.
Small capitals are not found in all font designs, as traditionally in printing they were primarily used within the body text of books and so are often not found in fonts that are not intended for this purpose, such as sans-serif types which historically were not preferred for book printing.
It is also applied in areas such as voter registration, where Mac and Mc names may be sorted together in a listing.
Latin alphabet Most orthographies that use the Latin writing system are imperfectly phonological and diverge from that ideal to a greater or lesser extent.
This would then suggest that the Vikings closely tied their language to their auditory sense, which in turn would have helped with the continual transfer of their cultural memory, which was also closely tied to their language.
Usernames: Authentication systems usually treat usernames as case-insensitive to make them easier to remember, reducing typing complexity, and eliminate the possibility of both mistakes and fraud when two usernames are identical in every aspect except the case of one of their letters.
if the syllable in which the о is to be added in the suffix is unstressed, then one must always write е.
The orthographic system developed by Chinese Evenki scholars reflects differences between Evenki and Mongol phonology.
Each identification number specifies six attributes—category, group, symbol, variation, fill, and rotation—as dash-separated values.
Goosse's book, trying to make the debate less personal, was titled La « nouvelle » orthographe, Exposé et commentaires, published by Ed.Duculot in 1991.
Phonograms are contrasted with logograms, graphemes that represent units of meaning like words, morphemes, and determinatives (silent characters used to mark semantic categories).
The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) also has some featural elements, for example in the hooks and tails that are characteristic of implosives, ɓ ɗ ʄ ɠ ʛ, and retroflex consonants, ʈ ɖ ʂ ʐ ɳ ɻ ɽ ɭ.
Up until then, Spanish norms were used in writing Kapampangan, which in turn meant that Kapampangan orthography was subject to the succession of reforms made by the Real Academia Española to Spanish orthography.
Math and science Decimal separator In the Middle Ages, from the original Indian decimal writing, before printing, an overline over the units digit was used to separate the integral part of a number from its fractional part, as in 9995 (meaning 99.95 in decimal point format).
The term donor principle is sometimes also used for the particular spelling of names of specific products, brands, institutions, etc., chosen by their owner, founder, designer, etc., when it clashes with the official spelling rules.
Some nations have established language academies in an attempt to regulate aspects of the national language, including its orthography—such as the Académie Française in France and the Royal Spanish Academy in Spain.
An -ing fragment is a type of incomplete sentence containing a word ending in -ing that is a gerund or noun, not a verb, because it lacks a helping verb.
Routine use of the serial comma helps to prevent ambiguity." Garner's Modern English Usage, 4th edition (Oxford University Press, 2016), "Punctuation," § D, "Comma", p.
Italic and bold face forms are also allographic, as is the variation seen in serif (as in Times New Roman) versus sans-serif (as in Helvetica) forms.
The Celtiberian script is a Paleohispanic script that was the main writing system of the Celtiberian language, an extinct Continental Celtic language, which was also occasionally written using the Latin alphabet.
Between 1100 CE and 1400 CE, the Telugu and Kannada scripts separated from the Telugu-Kannada script.
Homophones Two (or more) differently spelled words with different meanings are homophones if they are nonetheless pronounced the same; e.g., "right", "rite", "wright", and "write"; "read" (most tenses of verb) and "reed"; "read" (past, past participle) and "red".
In the end, it was indeed Drinov's reform which would become the most widely used, even during the Ottoman Empire.
In Unicode code charts, the representative glyph used for U+02BB looks identical to that used for the U+2018 ‘ LEFT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK, but this is not true for all fonts.
Indeed "virtually every edition" of the playwright's work in the early 19th century before 1840 used this spelling.
According to Dhavan, Punjabi began to adopt the script as a "side effect" of educational practices in Mughal-era Punjab, when Punjabi Muslims learned the Persian language in order to participate in Mughal society.
Expanding the Application of SWI SWI is gaining traction as a method for teaching students of varying ages, from young children to adults, by emphasizing the structure of words rather than rote memorization.
A major area of the debate concerned whether or not "Into Darkness" was a subtitle of Star Trek Into Darkness, which was not clear without the colon.
The DUCET is customizable for different languages, and some such customizations can be found in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR).
The same is true for the ⟨o⟩ in English boat, [oː] in Scottish English, instead of the diphthong [əʊ].
Spell checkers can use approximate string matching algorithms such as Levenshtein distance to find correct spellings of misspelled words.
clauses that have not been made dependent through the use of a relative pronoun or a subordinating conjunction) that are joined without appropriate punctuation: the clauses "run on" into confusion.
In academic writing, it is sometimes used as an in-text referencing tool to make reference to a specific paragraph from a document that does not contain page numbers, allowing the reader to find where that particular idea or statistic was sourced.
The term is infrequently used, as the number of letters is usually specified: Some multigraphs are considered ligatures, or letters unto themselves, such as ⟨ij⟩ in Dutch, ⟨dzs⟩ in Hungarian, and ⟨dž⟩ in Serbo-Croatian and a few other Slavic languages.
Previously this sign could also appear above the medial form of kāf, instead of the stroke on its ascender.
Bell, who introduced them in his edition of the British Classics [published in the 1780s and 1790s].
He was regarded as a pioneer in the development of the writing of the Luganda language, and held prominent positions in the Ugandan colonial government of the day.
(In some typefaces, one or other or both of these characters are designed in these styles; they are not produced by overstrike or by combining diacritic.
Two contrasting philosophies exist with regard to emergent readers learning to associate letters to speech sounds in English.
It may be used to separate a person's given and family names, such as transcribing the name of Galileo Galilei as: ガリレオ゠ガリレイ.
Sometimes intervocalic b and m is silent: as in ᠳᠡᠪᠡᠯ debel (Khalkha: дээл deel) 'robe, garment' or ᠬᠦᠮᠦᠨ kümün (Khalkha: хүн khün) 'human, person; man'.
For example, a blank statement (a semicolon by itself) stands for a NOP in C/C++, which is useful in busy waiting synchronization loops.
The now final forms ן ץ ף ך‎ predate their non-final counterparts; They were the default forms used in any position within a word.
For example, one might send a message reading "*morning" or "morning*" to correct the misspelling in the message "I had a good mroning".
[3] Paper by Wiebke Petersen on 'A Mathematical Analysis of Pāṇini’s Śiva sūtras.' [4] Paper by Madhav Deshpande on 'Who Inspired Pāṇini?
This can be contrasted with the older way of abbreviating et cetera, namely &c., where ⟨&⟩ is used to represent et as a full loanword, not a heterogram.
A meme known as "Mocking SpongeBob" more broadly popularized using alternating caps to convey a mocking tone starting in May 2017, leading to alternating caps becoming a mainstream method of conveying mockery in text.
Many Spanish words are similar or identical to English words, but with an "n" inserted, or replacing an "m", leading to errors: "inmigrant" from "inmigrante", "cementery" from "cementerio", "confortable" instead of "comfortable".
This principle applies in particular to the standardization in the receiver language of exonyms when they are used in publications.
Depending on the classification, it is considered the Southern or Southeastern variety of the ǃKung (also rendered ǃXun) language cluster.
Jawi nya In the Jawi alphabet, the letter nya is a modified form of the letter nūn with two additional dots.
The section sign is frequently used along with the pilcrow (or paragraph sign), ¶, to reference a specific paragraph within a section of a document.
Ethiopic (Geʽez) The Ethiopic (Geʽez) script appears in southern Arabia during periods of Aksumite presence, especially in the 6th century.
For example, hitobito, "people", is usually written 人々, using the kanji for 人 with an iteration mark, 々, rather than 人人, using the same kanji twice.
The nasal tilde is sometimes mistaken for the tone mark ngã in modern reproductions of early Vietnamese writing, such as in Phạm Thế Ngũ's Việt Nam văn học sử.
The writings are not arranged chronologically, however, and so they serve only as an approximate guide for determining the age of the manuscript.
This revision created the standard script, known as tongki fuka sindaha hergen (Manchu: ᡨ᠋ᠣᠩᡴᡳ ᡶ᠋ᡠᡴᠠ ᠰᡳᠨ᠋ᡩ᠋ᠠᡥᠠ ᡥᡝᡵᡤᡝᠨ) — the "script with dots and circles".
The seven Yoruba vowels (⟨a⟩, ⟨e⟩, ⟨ẹ⟩, ⟨i⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨ọ⟩, ⟨u⟩) can be uttered in three different tones: high (acute accent); middle (no accent) and low (grave accent).
Another example is the tonal difference between ainm [ɛnɛm] and anam [anam], the latter of which has the tonal contour appropriate to a disyllable.
Wiki link markup Camel case is used in some wiki markup languages for terms that should be automatically linked to other wiki pages.
However, a ligature such as |fi|, that is treated in some typefaces as a single unit, is arguably not a glyph as this is just a design choice of that typeface, essentially an allographic feature, and includes more than one grapheme.
Dearborn (February 1, 1875 – July 28, 1937) worked as a shorthand instructor and trainer of shorthand teachers at Simmons College, Columbia University, and several other institutions.
Lowercase the second word after a hyphenated prefix (e.g., Mid-, Anti-, Super-, etc.) in compound modifiers (e.g., Mid-year, Anti-hero, etc.).
This is also sometimes still used in Taiwan for important officials, such as Chiang Kai-shek and Sun Yat-sen, although this practice has gradually fallen out of favor.
In the late 1930s the Latinization campaign was canceled and all newly romanized languages were converted to Cyrillic.
Exactly what Caps Lock does depends on the keyboard hardware, the operating system, the device driver, and the keyboard layout.
At this time Psycharis was assistant to the professor of Greek at the École spéciale des Langues orientales in Paris, and My Journey described an 1886 visit he had made to Constantinople, Chios and Athens.
Shuang tai Shuang tai (Chinese: 雙抬, literally "double shift") as above, but two characters above a normal line.
In the official version of the Even script in 1947, the digraph нг was officially canceled, but in 1954 it was restored again.
The lack of word parsing forced the reader to distinguish elements of the script without a visual aid, but it also presented the reader with more freedom to interpret the text.
Roman square capitals, also called capitalis monumentalis, inscriptional capitals, elegant capitals and capitalis quadrata, are an ancient Roman form of writing, and the basis for modern capital letters.
Typing "DIR/W" gave the "wide" option to the "DIR" command, so some other method was needed if one actually wanted to run a program called W inside a directory called DIR).
In all cases, the Enter key may vary between this L-shaped key on two rows, and the horizontal key on the third row only (moving the key assigned to letter Ǝ to the end of the second row).
Arabic speaking Christians belonging to the Byzantine rite from the Levant (Lebanon, Palestine, and Syria) produced many liturgical items in this medium.
Historically, it represented either a pharyngealized /sˤ/ or an affricate such as the Modern Hebrew pronunciation or Geʽez [t͡sʼ]; which became [t͡s] in Ashkenazi Hebrew.
Since dictionaries adopted the new spellings early on, there is no currently in-print, standard reference work available for traditional spellings.
Traditionally, English-speaking countries (except South Africa) employed commas as the delimiter—10,000—and other European countries employed periods (full stops) or spaces: 10.000 or 10 000.
Some of these words have a Hebrew word equivalent, and that equivalent had totally lost the beginning aleph.
As political parties are often named after philosophies or ideologies, a capital letter is used to differentiate between a supporter of the philosophy, and a supporter of the party, for instance Liberal, a supporter of any Liberal Party, and liberal, a supporter of the philosophy of liberalism.
Some versions of the Apple Messages app are unable to properly handle Zalgo text, and will crash if they try to render a message that contains such text.
Morphophonology (also morphophonemics or morphonology) is the branch of linguistics that studies the interaction between morphological and phonological or phonetic processes.
An ideogram or ideograph (from Greek idéa 'idea' + gráphō 'to write') is a symbol that is used within a given writing system to represent an idea or concept in a given language.
Charles Butler (1571 – 29 March 1647), sometimes called the Father of English Beekeeping, was a logician, grammarian, author, priest (Vicar of Wootton St Lawrence, near Basingstoke, England), and an influential beekeeper.
Sentence 2 is compound because "so" is considered a coordinating conjunction in English, and sentence 3 is complex.
Daytshmerish (Yiddish: דײַטשמעריש) is a Yiddish derogatory term for Germanized variety of Yiddish orthography, style of speaking, and vocabulary.
For example, the letter O and the figure 0 have similar shape but have different meanings; the three letters A, Α and А look identical but are characters from three different scripts (Latin, Greek and Cyrillic).
See also Annotation – Item of metadata attached to a document Aristarchian symbols – Marks to annotate ancient Greek texts Dagger (mark) – Typographical symbol (†).
Other writers have noted that eye dialect has sometimes been used in derisive fashion toward ethnic or regional pronunciation, in particular by contrasting standard spelling with non-standard spelling to emphasize differences.
Among the Italian consonants, both /s/ and /z/ are written ⟨s⟩, and both /t͡s/ and /d͡z/ are written ⟨z⟩; stress and hiatus are also not reliably distinguished.
In languages such as Quenya, which do not contain any voiced fricatives other than "v", the raised stem + doubled bow row is used for the common nasal+stop sequences (nt, mp, nk, nqu).
The asterisk was one of several symbols developed by scholars of Homeric poetry at the Library of Alexandria over 2,000 years ago.
Balanced literacy Balanced literacy is not well defined; however, it is intended as a method that combines elements of both phonics and whole language.
In order to avoid it being confused with the equals sign =, the double hyphen is often shown as a double oblique hyphen in modern typography.
In such circumstances, the spelling pronunciation may well become more comprehensible than the other.
The resulting glyphs may look quite different in shape and style from the reference character or each other, but nevertheless their meaning remains the same.
This set of letters is known acronymically as אותיות מנצפ"ך‎ (otiyot menetzepekh, 'MNTzPK letters').
The Arabic letters ﺙ, ﺫ, ﻅ, representing the Arabic interdentals /θ, ð, ð̣/ may be used in etymological spellings of loanwords, but they are often replaced by ﺕ, ﺩ, ﺽ, in accordance with Shilha pronunciation, e.g.
See also Dagger (typography) Comma Textual criticism Annotation Marginalia Proofreading marks == References ==
Spelling reform Charles Butler published The English grammar (1633) with proposals to improve spelling to a phonetic alphabet.
Garg, the merchants of India used special scripts and each region had its own particular name for their script, such as Mundi, Modi, Mudiya, Mahajani, and Sarafi.
In his book, Butler condemned the vagaries of traditional English spelling and proposed the adoption of a system whereby 'men should write altogeđer according to đe sound now generally received'.
The system is not completely standardized, and, given the differences between dialects and speakers, many words have more than one “correct” spelling and pronunciation.
A phonemic orthography is an orthography in which the graphemes correspond consistently to the language's phonemes, or more generally to the language's diaphonemes.
There are surviving examples of blockprinted amulets containing Arabic words in the Coptic alphabet, probably intended to be sold to Coptic Christians.
Many nouns have irregular plurals, such as jù (person, plural jú), and the plural form of a noun is not predictable.
Code reference See also Dash#Swung dash Tilde#Unicode and Shift JIS encoding of wave dash Japanese punctuation#Wave dash == References ==
However, only one book was published in this alphabet - a translation of the textbook of arithmetic (Арифметика.
Use The character is used in many Polynesian languages as ʻokina, a unicameral consonant letter used within the Latin script to mark the phonemic glottal stop.
For example, the Mandarin Chinese name for the capital of the People's Republic of China is Beijing using the commonly used contemporary system Hànyǔ Pīnyīn, but in the historically significant Wade–Giles system, it is written Pei-Ching.
{\displaystyle {\underline {v}}=\mathbf {v} =\left[v_{1}\;v_{2}\right]^{\mathbf {T} }.} complex numbers.
Other languages (for instance, some assembly languages and LISP dialects, CONFIG.SYS and INI files) use semicolons to mark the beginning of comments.
In the theory of writing systems, homophony (from the Greek: ὁμός, homós, "same" and Greek: φωνή, phōnē, "sound") refers to the presence or use of different signs (phonograms) for the same syllabic value, i.e.
Comparison Some features include: Using the letter o to represent a final [ɔ] or [o], where Classical Occitan uses a.
They come in four main pairs of shapes, as given in the box to the right, which also gives their names, that vary between British and American English.
This often occurs in the course of transcription; thus a transposition error is a special case of a transcription error.
Breviographs were used frequently by stenographers, law clerks and scriveners, and they were also found in early printed books and tracts.
Masonry (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word masonry (wall building) – are omitted.
In order to avoid a complete re-typesetting of the entire text for this discrepancy, the publishers commonly shifted 神 so that it also took two spaces and the rest of the text could be typeset identically with 上帝.) Ping tai Ping tai (Chinese: 平抬, literally "level shift") is another form.
He served in Indian Army Pioneer Corps during World War II and was promoted from a private soldier to 2nd lieutenant in January 1941.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
The characters were often depicted bleeding from their eyes, and forum members interpreted Zalgo as an unimaginable, eldritch apocalyptic figure.
While Arabic is dominant in the Arabian Peninsula today, some modern South Arabian languages, though endangered, survive, with several hundred thousand speakers across Yemen (including Socotra) and Oman.
The son-in-law of Maurice Grevisse, he took over editing and updating Grevisse's last book, Le Bon Usage.
History On 3 September 1939, Neville Chamberlain, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, reconstructed his existing government so as to be suited for the Second World War.
His Chancellor of the Exchequer, Benjamin Disraeli, was instrumental in passing the Second Reform Act in 1867.
James Stewart Forbes and Lady Angela Forbes, on 9 April 1923, and was divorced from her in June 1928, on the grounds of her adultery with Captain James Roy Notter Garton.
Zetland played an important role in the protracted negotiations which led to the Government of India Act 1935, which began, subject to the implacable opposition of Winston Churchill and the "diehards" to anything that might imperil direct British rule over India, to implement those ideals.
Having won the largest number of seats in the 2007 general election (26 out of 60) the Labour Party sought to form a coalition with a smaller party.
As part of wide criticism of policies, the resignation of many members and in response to the Brexit negotiations, Sturgeon conducted a major cabinet reshuffle in 2018.
Philip Snowden, the evangelical ex-member of the Independent Labour Party (ILP) became a rigidly orthodox Chancellor of the Exchequer, while the next two prominent members of the party, J.
History The first wholly Whig government since 1783 came to power after the Duke of Wellington's Tory government lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.
The Rason Ministry was the 8th Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Ministerialist Premier Hector Rason.
The first Salmond government, which was sworn in on 17 May 2007 at the start of the 3rd Scottish Parliament, was an SNP minority government.
Douglas Alexander enters the Cabinet as Secretary of State for Transport and Secretary of State for Scotland.
23): Although the nominal leadership of the regency lay with John, Duke of Bedford (Gloucester's older brother), he spent most of his time ruling the English territories in France.
Whilst in parliament, he became an assistant government whip in 1931, served as a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury from 1932 to 1935, Vice-Chamberlain of the Household 1935–37 and Comptroller of the Household 1937–38.
The Grenville ministry was a British Government headed by George Grenville which served between 16 April 1763 and 13 July 1765.
After the war, Gwynne Jones remained in the Army, receiving a substantive lieutenant's commission in the South Wales Borderers on 24 August 1946 (with seniority from 5 June 1942), and was promoted to captain on 5 December.
Rockingham was noted for his ignorance of foreign affairs, and his ministry failed to reverse the growing isolation of Britain within Europe (Simms 2008, p.
The following ministers were then appointed to the positions, and served until the reconstitution of the Ministry on 30 June 1909.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
McLeish initially supported the war on terror, however, twenty years on he regrets that the war ultimately turned out as a "war on Islam".
The Liberal government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in 1859 and ended in 1866 consisted of two ministries: the second Palmerston ministry and the second Russell ministry.
This majority continued until Peter Law left Labour in 2005 to sit as an independent on the opposition benches, giving the government 29 and the opposition (excluding the Presiding Officer and Deputy) 29.
Notably for the first time in the assembly's history, parties entitled to seats on the executive could instead opt to go into formal opposition.
On 29 January 1944 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Westwood, of Gosforth in the County of Northumberland.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
He was replaced by Grant Shapps, who was Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero prior to being appointed as Defence Secretary.
Sir Robert Peel's first government succeeded the caretaker ministry of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington.
Given that it was not considered appropriate for a prime minister to be a member of the House of Lords, Alec Douglas-Home and Lord Hailsham both disclaimed their peerages under the Peerage Act 1963, and became known respectively as Sir Alec Douglas-Home and Quintin Hogg.
In the early 1920s, he spoke in the House of Commons about socialism, the League of Nations, unemployment and Ireland.
Henry Goulburn was Chancellor of the Exchequer, the future Prime Minister Lord Aberdeen Foreign Secretary and Sir James Graham Home Secretary.
It was also Swinney's final attendance to a Scottish Cabinet, having announced his retirement from government after serving under First Minister Alex Salmond and Sturgeon from 2007 until 2023.
Non-ministerial appointments Parliamentary Private Secretaries Prime Minister's Office Second Church Estates Commissioner Notes == References ==
Additionally, there were two Earls of Nottingham: the elder Nottingham served as Lord Chancellor, and his successor to the earldom served as First Lord of the Admiralty.
The administration was led by three young ministers, collectively known as the chits: Laurence Hyde (Earl of Rochester, 1682), Sidney Godolphin (Lord Godolphin, 1684) and the Robert Spencer, 2nd Earl of Sunderland.
2012 to 2013 In September 2012, Salmond made a snap reshuffle in light of the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.
Due to having to rely on the Protectionists to retain office, half of the ministry was forced to accommodate conservative Protectionists - leading to the government to sometimes be referred to as the Reid-McLean Ministry.
This minority government also managed to stay in power with unofficial deals with the Ulster Unionist Party and Scottish National Party.
His successor in the office is not a Cabinet member Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
Following the 5 May 2011 elections to the fourth Northern Ireland Assembly the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
Sir Lionel Frederick Heald, (7 August 1897 – 8 November 1981) was a British barrister and Conservative Party politician.
Andrea Leadsom, previously a junior energy minister, and also the final opponent of Theresa May in the 2016 Conservative leadership election, was made environment secretary.
Heath had been elected Leader of the Conservative Party in 1965 – succeeding Alec Douglas-Home – within a few months of the party's election defeat after 13 years in government.
Angus Robertson and Mairi Gourgeon remained in their respective roles as the constitution secretary and rural affairs secretary.
He could not continue as Leader of the House of Lords, having ceased to be a member of it, but was made Minister for Education in April 1964.
The Whig Party held a majority in the House of Commons after the election in 1695, although not all Whig MPs were unswervingly loyal to the Junto.
Simon's Walthamstow constituency was split up at the "Coupon Election" in 1918 and he was defeated at the new Walthamstow East division by a margin of more than 4,000 votes.
The government resigned in early 1855 after a large parliamentary majority voted for a select committee to enquire into the incompetent management of the Crimean War.
Death and succession Fortescue died on his 70th birthday in June 1958, four days after the death of his wife, whose funeral he was too ill to attend.
She was nominated for the post of first minister by a vote of the Scottish Parliament on 18 May, defeating Scottish Conservative leader Douglas Ross and Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie by 64 votes to 31 and 4 respectively.
It is led by Michelle O'Neill of Sinn Féin as First Minister and Emma Little-Pengelly of the DUP as deputy First Minister.
Peace treaty The ministry vigorously pushed for a peace to end the War of the Spanish Succession, leading to the Treaty of Utrecht.
Prior was dismissed as premier by Lieutenant Governor Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière over a conflict of interest scandal that implicated several ministers, including Prior.
Ministries of the Welsh Government See also List of British governments List of Northern Ireland Executives List of Scottish governments
Gwyneth's daughter Tamsin Dunwoody was also a politician, as a Member of the National Assembly for Wales from 2003 to 2007.
Lord Buckinghamshire (Lord Hobart before November 1804) succeeds Mulgrave at the Duchy of Lancaster.
Ben Wallace resigned as Secretary of State for Defence and was replaced by Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero Grant Shapps.
Two weeks later, on October 4, Brown resigned from cabinet, and Prentice regained the portfolios while also remaining minister of finance and agriculture.
He was a Senator of the College of Justice from 1974 to 1990, and later served as a Justice of Appeal in the Republic of Botswana from 1994 to 1996.
The government was replaced by the Drakeford government on 13 December 2018, following the resignation of Carwyn Jones as First Minister the previous day.
Adding to the charge against Simon was the claim that the administration of Herbert Hoover wanted to have the United States act against Japan and that Simon spurred the American offer.
James Drake, who died in 1941, was the last surviving member of the Reid ministry; Drake was also the last surviving minister of the Barton government and the First Deakin ministry.
The second Drakeford government was the Labour-led government formed after the 2021 Senedd Election on 6 May 2021, with Mark Drakeford re-appointed as First Minister without opposition on 12 May 2021.
Arthur Woodburn (25 October 1890 – 1 June 1978) was a Scottish Labour Party politician who was Secretary of State for Scotland from 1947 to 1950.
The Home Secretary Lord Shelburne was appointed to succeed him, but several members of the government refused to serve under him and resigned.
The last holdover from Blair's government was Lord Grocott, who stayed on as Chief Whip in the Lords and Captain of the Gentlemen at Arms.
The ministry was replaced by the Reid ministry on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
Loss of majority and ministerial resignations Johnson lost his working majority on 3 September 2019, when Phillip Lee crossed the floor to join the Liberal Democrats.
Gwilym Lloyd George, younger son of former Liberal Party leader and Prime Minister David Lloyd George, replaced Sir David Maxwell Fyfe as Home Secretary in 1954.
History Upon the fall of the North ministry in March 1782, Whig Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham became prime minister for a second time.
Cabinet Deputy ministers See also Shadow Cabinet (Wales) Members of the 6th Senedd 2021 Senedd election 2021 Welsh Labour–Plaid Cymru agreement == References ==
Benn said that he would "stay off the buses, even if I have to find a bike", and Labour leader Harold Wilson also told an anti-apartheid rally in London he was "glad that so many Bristolians are supporting the [boycott] campaign", adding that he "wish[ed] them every success".
She was also appointed Minister of State in the Cabinet Office (Minister without Portfolio), but did not initially attend Cabinet.
Estate In 1946 the Duke transferred most of his assets to his only surviving son in an attempt to avoid a repeat of the heavy death duties which the 9th Duke had had to pay in 1908.
Five more of the original Alliance Government MPs have announced they would not be seeking reelection.
Personal life In 1930 Phillips married fellow Labour Party activist Morgan Phillips, a Welsh former miner and later the General Secretary of the Labour Party 1944–1961.
One of the major problems was that it included no figure capable of taking the lead in the House of Commons.
Formation The change of leader from Margaret Thatcher to John Major saw a dramatic turnaround in Conservative support, with the double-digit lead in the opinion polls for the Labour Party being replaced by a narrow Conservative one by the turn of 1991.
Palmerston thereafter successfully devoted his energies to bringing down Russell's government, leading to the formation of a minority Conservative government under Lord Derby in February 1852.
It was formed after the previous Prime Minister, the Earl of Bute, had resigned following fierce criticism of his signing of the Treaty of Paris with its perceived lenient terms for France and Spain despite Britain's successes in the Seven Years War.
The nominal head of the ministry was Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, until his death in 1743.
Sylvia Foot, Emergency Exit (Chatto & Windus, 1960) - memoir by his wife External links Entry in Encyclopædia Britannica
Having signed the Munich Agreement with Hitler in 1938, Chamberlain became alarmed by the dictator's continuing aggression and, in March 1939, signed the Anglo-Polish military alliance which supposedly guaranteed British support for Poland if attacked.
Former prime minister William Pitt the Younger reassumed the premiership of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1804, succeeding Henry Addington as First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Early life and education Darling's grandfather, Thomas Darling, was agent for James Tomkinson, Liberal MP for Crewe from 1900 to 1910.
It succeeded the Second Leake Ministry on 1 July 1902 following the death of the previous Premier, George Leake, on 24 June 1902.
Charles II's illegitimate son James Scott, 1st Duke of Monmouth was included in the new government because he was popular with the public.
Career After Cambridge Darling chose to enter journalism, before becoming the head of research and information at the Co-operative Wholesale Society from 1930 to 1937.
Benn's absence from the contest was reported by The Glasgow Herald to leave Neil Kinnock as "the favourite Left-wing candidate".
After the death of the previous prime minister, his brother Henry Pelham, Newcastle had formed a new administration of Whigs.
The original idea was that the National Government would be free to draw upon the talents of members of all parties, so that it would represent the nation as a whole rather than being a coalition of parties like those which had existed between 1915 and 1922.
It succeeded the James Ministry on 10 August 1904 after the 1904 election boosted Labor's seat count from 8 to 22 in the 50-seat Legislative Assembly.
Lord Palmerston, of the Whigs, first formed a government by popular demand in 1855, after the resignation of the Aberdeen Coalition.
Following Rhodri Morgan's decision to retire, a leadership contest was held for the position of Welsh Labour Leader.
Leake advised the Governor to dissolve Parliament, but the request was declined and on 12 November, Leake advised the Legislative Assembly that as soon as the Supply Bill had passed a third reading, his government would resign.
Until 1717, he held the position of Northern Secretary and was the de facto leader of the Whig administration.
Norah Mary Phillips, Baroness Phillips, JP (née Lusher; 12 August 1910 – 14 August 1992) was an English educator, Labour Party politician, magistrate and the founder of consumer and women's groups.
It is the first federal government in Australian history to be elected with a majority in the House of Representatives, as well as the first majority national Labor government in the world.
Edward William Spencer Cavendish, 10th Duke of Devonshire (6 May 1895 – 26 November 1950), known as the Marquess of Hartington from 1908 to 1938, was a British politician.
The Broad Bottom ministry was the factional coalition government of Great Britain between 1744 and 1754.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt was appointed to replace Johnson, whilst Hunt's former post was filled by Culture Secretary Matthew Hancock.
February 2022 – 5 July 2022 Changes Oliver Dowden resigned as Co-Chairman of the Conservative Party and Minister without Portfolio on 24 June 2022 following the Conservative defeats at the Tiverton and Honiton by-election and Wakefield by-election.
Heald was junior counsel to the Board of Trade from 1931 to 1937, when he was appointed King's Counsel.
Alex Salmond formed the second Salmond government on 19 May 2011 following his Scottish National Party's landslide victory in the 2011 election to the 4th Scottish Parliament.
The tax liability led to the transfer of Hardwick Hall to the National Trust, and the sale of many of the Devonshires' accumulated assets, including tens of thousands of acres of land, and many works of art and rare books.
He was promoted lieutenant colonel in command in 1924 and colonel in 1930 and in 1935 he became Colonel Commandant of the Honourable Artillery Company.
The most influential member of the government was Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle, a former prime minister, who served as Lord Privy Seal.
Devonshire was left to lead a ministry that was manifestly far too weak to survive long—particularly in wartime.
This reform assisted women by linking pensions to the 'twenty best years' of earnings, and those who worked at home caring for children or others were counted as contributors.
Palmerston was heavily criticised by Parliament in 1857 over the conduct of the Second Opium War and called a dissolution, but the nation voiced its support in the resulting general election and he returned with a Whig majority.
Between 1757 and 1762, at the height of the Seven Years' War, the Pitt–Newcastle ministry governed the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Supporting these peers were two unofficial whips in the House of Lords: the earls of Sunderland and Portland.
In Committee however, as one study noted, "it was soon made evident that if all the provisions of the Bill were adhered to, it would never get through," so in the end the bill was limited to the female voting age provision.
Notes References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities
Macmillan chose Dundee minister without portfolio from 1958 to 1961 owing to a wealth of experiences at home and abroad.
The second Broad Bottom administration lasted from Pelham's resumption of power until his death in 1754.
Rajoy himself was facing increased pressure for independence from Spain in Catalonia, and as such, said that "an independent Scotland could only apply to join the EU from outside the organisation as a new state".
The Rule of Democracy, 1905–1914 (vol 6 of "History of the English People, 1905–1914") (1934); online Hay, James Roy.
The Conservative Government of the United Kingdom that began in 1922 and ended in 1924 consisted of two ministries: the Law ministry (from 1922 to 1923) and then the first Baldwin ministry (from 1923 onwards).
List of ministers See also Executive Council of Alberta List of Alberta provincial ministers References Works cited Further reading Alberta.
It was a very unsure period as no one knew if James would come back, or if the people would accept a new king.
Jayne Bryant, the previous Mental Health and Early Years Minister, was made Cabinet Secretary for Local Government and Housing, replacing Julie James.
His father was an Anglo-Irish businessman and politician who graduated with a law degree from Cambridge University before entering politics as a member of the London County Council and then, in 1910, as a member of the British House of Commons, later serving as Governor General of Canada.
As the name suggests, the ministry was a coalition of the groups supporting Charles James Fox and Lord North.
Ministry Principal ministers of the Crown were as follows: See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
She was the first Roman Catholic life peeress and was the first female government whip in the House of Lords, as Baroness-in-Waiting 1965–70.
It was this government which would conduct the Second Boer War from 1899–1902, which helped them to win a landslide victory at the 1900 general election.
Defeat The government lost its majority at the 1911 general election, but managed to stay in office with the support of independent MPs until the following year.
The second McConnell government (20 May 2003 – 16 May 2007) was formed following the 2003 general election to the 2nd Scottish Parliament.
Improvements were made in conditions for nursing staff following the publication of a report by the NBPI in 1968 on the pay of nurses.
In the latter post, he served for nine years during which he oversaw crises such as the Abdication Crisis of Edward VIII.
At first, Leader of the Opposition Frederick Henry Piesse was asked to form a Ministry, but on 18 November he advised that he had been unable to form an acceptable Ministry, and Alf Morgans was sent for.
July 1988 – Department of Health and Social Security broken up into component parts: John Moore continues on as Secretary of State for Social Security.
This is a list of the principal Ministers of the Crown of the Kingdom of England, and then of the Kingdom of Great Britain, from May 1702, at the beginning of the reign of Queen Anne.
Cabinet December 1868 – February 1874 Notes † The Earl de Grey was created the Marquess of Ripon in 1871.
Lord Clarendon was impeached by the House of Commons and forced to flee; the Duke of Albemarle sold his position to George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham; and Sir George Carteret simply left his position, eventually being forced out of the House two years later.
He was the first Tory prime minister since the Harley ministry during 1710–1714 though his ministry was largely made up of Whigs.
May 1940 – Sir Terence O'Connor dies and no new Solicitor General is appointed before the government falls.
On 20 October 2022, amid growing disapproval of her leadership from within the Conservative Party, Truss announced her resignation, making her tenure the shortest in the history of the United Kingdom.
After several scandals including allegations of the sale of honours, the Conservatives withdrew their support after a meeting at the Carlton Club in 1922, and Bonar Law formed a government.
Both had been political advisers to her at the Home Office, then worked outside government for a brief period before coming back to work on her leadership campaign.
*** Indicates that the individual was either sacked or quit and held no ministerial role in the next government.
Defeated by the Conservative incumbent in Sunderland South in the 1955 and 1959 General Elections, Armstrong was Member of Parliament (MP) for North West Durham from 1964 until his retirement in 1987.
He contributed an article on The Strategic Defence Initiative to the Conservative Monday Club's October 1985 Conservative Party Conference issue of their newspaper, Right Ahead.
In a break from the previous non-partisan governments, it was the first to be composed on party lines, and consisted of members of the Conservative Party.
The Impact of Hitler: British Politics and British Policy, 1933–1940 (Cambridge University Press, 1975).
With inflation firmly under control and union reforms contributing towards the lowest level of strikes since the early 1950s, the Conservatives were now faced with the challenge of reducing unemployment from a record high of 3,200,000.
Following his resignation, the environment portfolio was combined with that of rural development, planning was added to the transport portfolio, and the sport and culture portfolio was given Deputy Minister Allan Wilson without a promotion to minister.
Stimson calling for a joint Anglo-American declaration stating that they would never establish diplomatic relations with the sham state of Manchukuo, which was viewed in Japan as a pro-Japanese gesture that reflected a quiet sympathy for Japan's actions.
In 2014, Lib Dem minister Norman Lamb warned that "it could be enormously damaging for [the Lib Dems]" if the party went into coalition with Miliband's Labour.
It succeeded the Morgans Ministry on 23 December 1901 after a series of ministerial by-elections to confirm that ministry resulted in half of the ministry being defeated by Opposition and Labour candidates.
He was educated at elementary school in Crewe, and started work at 14 in the railway sheds of the town.
However, no clear winner emerged from the April 1901 state election, and rather than test his support in the Assembly, Throssell and the Ministry he led resigned on 27 May 1901, allowing the Leake Ministry led by Opposition Leader George Leake to take office.
May 2003 – Clare Short resigns and is succeeded by Baroness Amos as International Development Secretary.
Yousaf offered Kate Forbes, who he had beaten in the leadership race, a demotion as rural affairs secretary, but she turned down this offer and left government.
In the 2003 Scottish Parliament election, the Labour–Liberal Democrat coalition was renewed and Jack McConnell returned to a second term as first minister and formed a second administration.
The ministry, a Conservative majority government, succeeded the second Cameron ministry which had been formed following the 2015 general election.
It ended on 20 May 2003 following the 2003 election to the 2nd Scottish parliament, which saw McConnell returning to office as first minister to form a second government.
Lord Bessborough died in December 1993, aged 80, when the earldom of Bessborough created in the Peerage of the United Kingdom for his father in 1937 became extinct.
Chalfont was the author of several military history books on subjects including the Napoleonic Wars.
This deadline was later extended to 29 June after Prime Minister, Theresa May's decision to call a snap general election for 8 June 2017.
He was Secretary of the Scottish Council of the Labour Party from 1932 to 1939, and President of the National Council of Labour Colleges from 1937 to 1965.
Gilruth was succeeded by Neil Gray who was appointed Minister for Culture, Europe and International Development and Minister with special responsibility for Refugees from Ukraine.
Prime Minister, the Cabinet Office and non-Departmental ministers Departments of state Law officers Parliament Whips References General Ministers in the Labour Governments: 1997–2010 – Parliamentary Information List, House of Commons Library, 3 July 2012 D.
Military career The then Marquess of Hartington began service with the Territorial Army as a second lieutenant in the Derbyshire Yeomanry in 1913.
He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for war services in 1942 and Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1946 Birthday Honours.
Fate The Conservative Party, with the support of the Liberal Unionists, gained a decisive victory in the July 1886 general election, and Lord Salisbury once again became prime minister.
The Michael administration was formed by Alun Michael following the 1999 National Assembly for Wales election and was a Labour minority administration.
He died on 2 January 1986, aged 84, and was succeeded in the barony by his son Robin Evelyn Leo Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone.
The National Government of 1935–1937 was formed by Stanley Baldwin on his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by King George V, following the resignation of Ramsay MacDonald in June 1935.
She was made a life peer on 21 December 1964 as Baroness Phillips, of Fulham in the County of London.
Parliamentary career At the 1950 general election, Heald was elected as member of parliament for the Chertsey constituency in Surrey, having been previously defeated in St Pancras South West in the 1945 general election.
Butler (ed.), Twentieth Century British Political Facts 1900–2000 Notes External links "Ministerial Departures since 1997 – Parliamentary Information List" (PDF).
In addition, a new post of Deputy Minister for Transport and Planning in line with the expanded transport portfolio.
Shortly after 1879 her grandfather Hugh Fortescue, 4th Earl Fortescue (1854–1932), Master of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds 1880/81–87, had acquired the reversion of the whole of the former Royal Forest of Exmoor after the death of Frederick Winn Knight.
Cabinets June 1866 – February 1868 Notes This Cabinet of Derby's is the first for which a complete collection of photographs exists of its members.
Leading members See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1757 in Great Britain Notes References Works cited == Further reading ==
It succeeded the Rason Ministry on 7 May 1906 after Rason resigned to accept an appointment as Agent-General for Western Australia in London.
Derby's health, however, had been in decline for some time, and he finally resigned in February and advised Queen Victoria to send for Disraeli.
Halifax wanted to sue for peace by asking Benito Mussolini to broker a treaty between the British government and Hitler.
Woodburn was an unsuccessful candidate for Edinburgh South in 1929 and Edinburgh Leith in 1931; he was Member of Parliament (MP) for Clackmannan and East Stirlingshire from 1939 until 1970.
June 1939 – Herwald Ramsbotham succeeds Sir Philip Sassoon (deceased) as First Commissioner of Works and is succeeded as Minister of Pensions by Sir Walter Womersley.
Cabinet Junior ministers See also List of Welsh Assembly Governments 2003 National Assembly for Wales election Members of the 2nd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
Dewar was re-elected in the 1978 Glasgow Garscadden by-election and served as the MP until his death in 2000.
History Eluned Morgan was nominated and appointed to succeed Vaughan Gething as first minister of Wales on 6 August 2024.
However, Goderich's government never even met in a session of Parliament, and was replaced by a High Tory government under the Duke of Wellington on 22 January 1828.
References Leigh Rayment's Peerage Pages Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Albert Murray
Castle Hill is now the home of her daughter Eleanor, Countess of Arran (née van Cutsem) and her husband Arthur Gore, 9th Earl of Arran.
This government did not long survive the hostility of King George III, and many of Shelburne's ministers returned to office under the leadership of William Pitt the Younger in December 1783, though Shelburne himself was consoled with the title Marquess of Lansdowne.
He remained in power until 1756 when his government collapsed following the fall of Minorca and the fierce criticism that he had come under for his handling of the Seven Years' War that was engulfing Europe.
A new coalition government (officially referred to as the Coalition Partnership) was officially announced on 5 October 2000 with policy details emerging the day later.
Butler continued to serve under him for another two years, but devotes only a single paragraph to this period in his memoirs.
Cabinet Changes November 2005 – David Blunkett resigns his post as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.
Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 4 May 1979 to 28 November 1990, during which time she led a Conservative majority government.
Fate The Duke oversaw the introduction of Catholic Emancipation, but remained resolutely opposed to parliamentary reform, and as a result lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.
Harold Macmillan, formerly Foreign Secretary and Chancellor of the Exchequer, was chosen over Rab Butler as the new party leader and consequently as prime minister.
Upon Lord Stanhope's death, Robert Walpole, widely considered the first true Prime Minister of Great Britain, returned to head the government.
He was Conservative Member of Parliament for Flintshire from 1945 to 1950 and for West Flintshire from 1950 to 1970.
The government oversaw the establishment of Crown rule in India, but was still not strong enough to retain power, falling in June 1859.
Sam Galbraith and Angus MacKay stood down and Jackie Baillie, Sarah Boyack and Tom McCabe reshuffled out of government, while Susan Deacon was offered the post of social justice minister but refused the offer and moved to the backbenches.
Following the eruption of a scandal involving the improper granting of land, Prior fired the two ministers implicated, David McEwen Eberts and Wilmer Cleveland Wells.
2 The responsibility for Education lay with the Colonial Secretary in the Forrest Ministry except during the period 19 December 1894 – 28 April 1898.
Author Nancy Kilpatrick, after reading Death Moon in preparation for writing the following Jason X novel, called it "pretty damned weird." Nat Brehmer of Bloody Disgusting opined that author Alex S.
They then moved to their own women-only island, where, in the absence of male oppression, they grew progressively stronger and lived a longer life.
Stargate SG-1 was also nominated for two VES Awards in 2003 and 2005 and for two Hugo Awards in 2005 and 2007.
The Nestene Consciousness did not appear on-screen again until 2005's "Rose", the first episode of the series' revival.
He ended up becoming an outlaw, mentored as a graffiti artist by the insane "tagger" Kroll; he left messages and occasionally took out police officers to eventually provoke an uprising.
See also List of Sonic the Hedgehog characters Notes References External links Doctor Eggman at Sonic-City (archived) Doctor Eggman at Sonic Channel (in Japanese)
Heroes of the City (Swedish: Stadens Hjältar) is a Swedish computer-animated television series for preschool children, with stories about friendship, sharing and caring.
Plot The New American Republic commandeers a space freighter to track down Jason Voorhees, an undead cyborg last sighted on a research station orbiting Planet #666.
Master Hidar Fen Ajidica heads Project Amal, an early attempt by the Bene Tleilax to create synthetic melange in order to eliminate dependence upon the planet Arrakis, intending an eventual Tleilaxu takeover of the universe, Ajidica sends "improved" Face Dancers off to unexplored systems.
These classes can be further customized with a number of descriptors (such as "Tough" or "Mystical") and foci, which allow the character to excel in a certain role or combat style.
A crowd funding platform, on the other hand, would allow the developers to present their vision directly to potential buyers and determine its viability early on, making it a better choice for a mid-sized or smaller developer studio, like inXile.
There have been some claims that Frontier Enterprises produced an English dub Mazinger Z at some point in the 1970s, stating it was one of the serial works that his company Frontier Enterprises had been in charge of translating but failed to sell to a network and thus never aired or was released.
Robotnik also served as the main antagonist of the 1999 series Sonic Underground, in which he was voiced by Garry Chalk.
13–14, ISBN 9780842028592{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Pettigrew, Neil (1999), The Stop-motion Filmography –A Critical Guide to 297 Features Using Puppet Animation, McFarland, pp.
The one recruited by Iron Man presented the idea that, to try something new and break his pattern, Ultron should try to help the heroes and humanity.
Concept The stasis field concept is a variation on the related science-fictional concept of the force field.
From salvaged internal metal identification plates, two varieties are identified: I-V, a wounded soldier, and III-V, David.
Background No well-controlled scientific studies have ever been published suggesting the possibility of pheromones causing rapid behavioral changes in humans.
In July 2019, Franky Zapata flew the newer Flyboard Air "jet-powered personal aerial vehicle", referred to as the EZ-Fly, during Bastille Day celebrations in France.
The two books show at least one solution to the Fermi paradox, with electromagnetically noisy civilizations being snuffed out by the arrival of self-replicating machines designed to destroy any potential threat to their (possibly long-dead) creators.
Captain Miklo Braca (David Franklin) – Captain Miklo Braca usually serves as a subordinate to most of the series' villains, acting as second-in-command for Crais, Scorpius, and Grayza at various times.
Marsden, Ilya Prigogine (Nobel Prize in Chemistry, 1977), Robert Wald, John Archibald Wheeler, Maurice Allais (Nobel Prize in Economics, 1988), and Frank Wilczek (Nobel Prize in Physics, 2004).
In the sequel, Ghost in the Shell 2: Man/Machine Interface, a person known as Motoko Aramaki appears.
He is sent to infiltrate the Canelli crime family by using the cover identity "Angelo Mortalli." While living as Mortalli, Garrison begins a romantic relationship with Gina DeCarlo.
Boilerplate is featured on the cover of Canadian indie pop band Stars's 2008 EP Sad Robots, as well as on merchandise for their 2008–9 tour.
The plot has been called “fast-paced and eventful” and “the kind of book that felt much shorter than the 500-odd pages in spans” but also frustrating as “the love story holds very few surprises" being based on the Hans Christian Andersen story.
Now, Tiphares is mainly a source of living human brains that are integrated into Ketheres' quantum computing network known as Melchizedek.
Cait Sith to her had a "memorable, distinctive and comical look, something that was needed to offset the darker, rather po-faced appearance of the rest of the cast", and his humorous appearance helped offset how the rest of the party was shown as "brooding and containing their androgynous rage".
Only in the late 20th century did advances in biology reveal that vampires were once humans who had been infected with the V-virus.
Two multi-purpose rooms were frequently redecorated into the infirmary, Daniel's lab, the cafeteria or the gym.
He is the first person whose body was cryopreserved after legal death, and remains preserved at the Alcor Life Extension Foundation.
radio waves), so signals sent from a great distance can be expected to reach their destination at a predictable time and with little relative degradation (barring any random subspace interference or spatial anomalies).
Hadden faked his death, secretly launching himself into space using cryogenics, but this remains unknown to the characters.
At the first checkpoint, Hamilton orders Annie, who is revealed to be her spy, to kill Frankenstein.
He searches her lodgings, finding busts carved of him and of Number Two, and smashes a lifelike effigy representing the sleeping Professor.
The spin-off manga Crazy Diamond's Demonic Heartbreak reveals that Kakyoin was born in Morioh and ended up under Dio's control during his family's vacation to Egypt when the villain uses his younger cousin as a hostage.
As other Geldarians arrive on Earth to investigate the death of their comrade and find the missing Tech Jacket, they initially suspect Zack of foul play, believing he stole the Tech Jacket.
Contrary to Next Generation, GamePro concluded that while Jet Moto 2 is flawed, it has enough novel features over its predecessor to be worth buying.
As "Lieutenant Cole", Nanette finds herself aboard the USS Callister, where "Lieutenant" Lowry explains that they are digital clones of Callister Inc.
TMA-2 thus converted Jupiter into a new star (dubbed "Lucifer", meaning "light-bringer") to warm Europa into more habitable conditions – at the cost of exterminating the Jovians, ocean-like creatures who swam through the upper atmosphere of Jupiter.
The plots revolve around the emergency vehicles Paulie Police Car and Fiona Fire Engine who tackle a new mission in each episode.
In the Alien Force pilot episode "Ben 10 Returns", Labrid is killed in battle with the Forever Knights.
This also means that everything in the moment from then on changes, providing a completely different and alternate future.
See also References External links IXS Enterprise (IXS-110), images by Mark Rademaker (on Flickr) Warp Field Physics (PDF) Video (58:59) - Faster-Than-Light - SpaceVision 2013 on YouTube Video (03:57) - NASA unveils IXS Enterprise on YouTube
The magazine had a in-depth material, including interviews with the cast and crew, behind the scenes information on many episodes, original fiction (by O'Bannon, DeCandido, Greg Cox, John Kenneth Muir, and others), and a regular column by David Kemper.
The final version of Rover was inspired by a weather balloon seen above Portmeirion by production manager Bernard Williams.
However, Apollo remembers that he'd thought the same thing about Helios whom he had recently encountered in the Labyrinth after Medea had resurrected the Titan.
Zack Thompson appears in the “Viltrumite War” storyline, collaborating with characters like Invincible, Omni Man, and Allen the Alien.
While Ivo is furious at this development, Morrow reveals he deliberately made Tomorrow Woman's brain advanced enough to develop her own personality and ethics, and so her act of free will is a demonstration of his genius.
Lee noted in an interview with PlayStation Museum that rain particles "actually streak in 3D according to your camera speed", noting that other games used a 2D effect on the game's HUD to produce the effect of rain.
This connection to Rai does not exist in the Acclaim Entertainment reboot canon or in the 2012 relaunched Valiant Universe.
The Switch version performs better than the Wii U release when docked to a television, although when undocked, both run at the same resolution.
Initially, Kotori was disliked by the manga readers as Clamp pointed out she did not any major appeal other that being cute.
In particular, it is an imaginary experiment to demonstrate that evolution may not necessarily lead to dominance by intellectually superior life forms.
Overdrive is later sent to steal the Sonic Pulse Generator from a laboratory, but is thwarted by Spider-Man.
Although the connections to its predecessor will not be relatively overt, due to licensing issues, it was noted that certain traditional RPG elements are relatively hard to copyright, and some elements of Planescape: Torment may make a reappearance.
Charles Stross also makes epub, mobi, aportis and rtf versions of Accelerando available for download from his blog.
Der Audio Verlag audio book on 3 times 2 CDs (total playing time 460 minutes), read by Stefan Kaminski in 2006.
In his book A Vision of the Future, author Stephan Edward Poe wrote the holonovel was intended to provide: "new ways for crew members to learn ...
Lacking contemporary astronauts, it gives the command to Wilson Kime, one of the members of the original Mars mission.
This wasn't helped by the fact that Nagai was in the middle of a court battle with Toei, suing them for not properly crediting him and not paying him royalties over the creation of Gaiking in 1976.
Donquixote Doflamingo Donquixote Doflamingo (ドンキホーテ・ドフラミンゴ, Donkihōte Dofuramingo) is the captain of the Donquixote Pirates, the usurper king of the island Dressrosa, and formerly one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.[ch.
Princess Oona Princess Oona is a character created by Stefan Printz-Påhlson and his wife Unn Printz-Påhlson in the story "Princess Oona" (Anders And & Co.
Motoko is also more prone to mischief when punishing others for what she feels to be slights, using her hacking skills to make Batou punch himself, for example, or appearing nude during their meeting in cyberspace.
According to series co-creator Matt Groening, the suicide booth concept was inspired by a 1937 Donald Duck cartoon, Modern Inventions, in which Donald Duck visits a Museum of the Future and is nearly killed by various push button gadgets.
In practice, the term functions primarily as a specific named variant within the broader and historically diverse category of ji polearms.
Location filming took place in July 1961 around London, including at IBM's offices on Wigmore Street, and in the vicinity of Tenby in Pembrokeshire, Wales where the Manorbier Army Base stood in for the Thorness research centre.
The following day, the robots have now evolved into incorporeal energy beings of transcendent higher consciousness that are no longer concerned with corporeal beings including Farnsworth, and send the crew home.
Other media Video games The Carmageddon video game series borrows heavily from the plot, characters and car designs from the film Death Race 2000.
Characters are split into teams, and bikes are adorned with logos of products such as Mountain Dew and Doritos, similar to real-life sponsored racing.
More potent versions of this spell include resurrection, which needs only a fragment of the body, and true resurrection, which doesn't need the body at all and can be performed many years after the character's death.
Smythe's continued efforts to perfect his machines lead to him contracting fatal radiation poisoning from the building materials of his creations.
Although the technology is still in development, it has enabled some legally blind individuals to distinguish letters again.
Acclaim Comics continuity The Acclaim Entertainment reboot version of Bloodshot, named Raymond Garrison, possesses the same powers but has the appearance of chalk-white skin and red eyes at all times.
The stories were drawn by a number of artists and Dave Gibbons has fond memories of his work on Ro-Busters: I used to love doing Ro-Busters.
This later led the writers to develop a full story arc for GLaDOS where she would come to recall her past, learn from it to solve the dilemma, and then subsequently delete it and reset herself.
When the Eleventh Doctor travels to the time of the Romans to find a prison named the Pandorica, an alliance of his enemies arrive to stop him, including the Consciousness.
The Metamorphoses also includes a story in which Athena transforms Arachne into a spider such that "her whole body became tiny." According to Porphyry, the love god Eros grows when he is near his brother Anteros, but shrinks back down to his previous small form when they are apart.
When crossed before her, the bracelets are able to generate a remnant of the Aegis, allowing Diana to deflect attacks far larger than the surface area of her bracelets.
Movie and 2026's The Super Mario Galaxy Movie, in which he is shown to be a Brooklyn native for the first time since before Yoshi's Island.
At the time, "the advance was the largest ever made for a book that had not yet been written." The first printing was 265,000 copies.
He brought the head of his father back to Mariejois in hopes of receiving his Celestial title back again.
Using E=mc2, −700 kilograms of mass is equivalent to ~−63 exajoules of energy (this number is not definitive and can be further reduced).
Sorikondar (ソリコンダー) (voice: Minoru Inaba) Name derived from sorikomi (剃り込み), again referring to his hairstyle.
Devil Satan 6 (played by Kenichi Ono) Six monstrous robots that can combine into the giant Devil Satan 6 robot.
Feldrance (フェルドランス, Feldlance) (CODE: 227) Voiced by: Misato Sakamoto (Japanese); Mona Marshall (English) A cold-hearted android in the form of a youth who was created by and works under the Management's robotics scientist Professor Mephlis during his scheme to take Mahoro for himself.
A Judge appears in Nemesis the Warlock Book V: The Vengeance of Thoth, which also features Hammerstein, Ro-Jaws and Mek-Quake.
Animals This section contains animal characters who act like animals, unlike the majority of characters in this article, who are highly anthropomorphized animals that act like humans.
Gypsy played a key role in the series' overall plot in episode #512, Mitchell, when she overheard the Mads discussing killing Mike Nelson, who was currently working at Gizmonic Institute as a temp, and mistakenly believed they were plotting to kill Joel.
He conceived its movement as "unanimal"-like as if it was constantly about to fall over before catching itself.
Gideon is armed with a wide variety of weaponry to destroy anything it finds trying to escape the dimension known as "The Edge".
Comedian Chris Elliott, while realising that Boilerplate was fictional, thought that the spoof dated back to the 19th century and included the character in one of his books (see below).
Film Technovore appears in Iron Man: Rise of Technovore, voiced by Miyu Irino in the Japanese version and Eric Bauza in the English dub.
Battleworld and Ultron-12 Ultron-9 and Ultron-10 brainwash heroes into recreating the robot, before turning and being defeated.
At the July 2005 annual conference of the Society for Cryobiology, 21st Century Medicine announced the vitrification of a rabbit kidney to −135 °C with their vitrification mixture.
Emerging from their ship, they find themselves caught up in the struggle between the Gurendos forces and the Algo Republic, eventually joining forces with the rough-and-tumble bunch of Machine Robo known as the Battle Hackers team to help save B-1 and eventually find a way back to Earth.
The name "subspace" has also been adopted and used in other fictional settings, such as the Stargate franchise, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, the Bobiverse series, and Descent: Freespace.
Arctiguana's Ultimate form (also voiced by Eric Bauza), used by Albedo, is larger and possesses shoulder-mounted ice cannons.
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave it 4 out of 4, describing Tarantino as "effortlessly and brilliantly in command of his technique".
Such is the crisis that after only a few days cuts his human allies loose to devote all of his resources defending a narrow corridor through Chu to the Rim and to the wider world.
They tended to unsettle viewers, due to their non-human yet non-toy nor cartoon appearance, and the series of commercials was abandoned.
Placing it on a balance scale with the tube's positive electrode facing up, the tube's mass seemed to decrease when the power was on.
After the Satellite of Love crashed into the Earth in the final episode of the original run of MST3K (#1013: Diabolik), GPC is not present with Mike and the Bots in their shared apartment.
On 1 June 2013, a campaign launched featuring a robot named Brian, depicted as being on a mission to help people to "save pounds".
The subsequent hijack and disappearance of flight JL50 and Bihu along with it in 1984 means that Shantanu grows up an orphan and goes on to join the CBI.
This is all part of a successful plan to conquer the Earth and the Calculator is left a groveling witness to various Libra-headed executions.
In the 2014 film Interstellar, directed by Christopher Nolan, two robots named TARS and CASE accompany four NASA astronauts on their journey in the search of a new home for humanity.
Characters The twelve children are divided into three teams according to their particular field of rescue.
Tollan Stargate In "Pretense", the advanced Tollan civilization is shown to have a new Stargate, built with the assistance of the Nox.
When the X-Men learn about the existence of OZT some months before the operation becomes public, Jean Grey and Gambit sneak into an OZT meeting being held at the Pentagon to learn more about the program and its leader Bastion, but do not come out with much information.
She had discovered that she was a Prime Sentinel; humans transformed into Sentinels and set up as 'sleeper' agents, unaware of their programming until a nearby mutant activated them (as in Neal's usage of his mutant powers).
The fictional Brand X "other battery" depicted in the ad was made to look like rival Energizer batteries, much in the same way that Energizer's fictional rival "Supervolt" was made to resemble Duracell batteries.
Rotational simulated gravity has been proposed as a solution in human spaceflight to the adverse health effects caused by prolonged weightlessness.
Toby Loobenfield (DJ Qualls), a scientist at Caltech whom Sheldon hires to play his fictional drug-addicted cousin Leo Dr.
Lightning Trap - Leina & Laika Taking place in the middle of the Wolf Sword Legend feature, this story centers on Leina Haruka, whose plane has been hijacked by a group of thugs led by the supernatural wizard Zarik.
Weller was immediately frustrated because the costume was too cumbersome for him to move as he had practiced.
There is another alien faction at work, however, represented on Earth by small spider-like robots that recruit human agents through some form of mind control.
The character Major Charles Kawalsky describes Stargate travel as worse than "pulling out of a simulated bombing run in an F-16 at eight-plus g", with Major Louis Ferretti adding that on the other side one is "frozen stiff like having just been through a blizzard naked".
Additionally, Wiklem requested that all of the original Jet Moto tracks be unlocked at the start of the game.
Vehicles in films Cars and trucks Other road vehicles Miscellaneous land vehicles Military land vehicles Trains Aircraft Marine vehicles Spacecraft and space weapons Vehicles in books This list includes all types of vehicles.
He is equally disdainful of a friend who keeps asking him to join his Club, expecting that also to be just a ruse to get at his money.
David Carradine stars as "Frankenstein", the leading champion of the race, who is targeted by an underground rebel movement seeking to abolish the race.
The two later briefly returned in Passing of the Torch, in which Tommy, Adam, Kat, and Tanya retired from their Ranger duties.
Curry took special care to merge the blue-screen effects with Kolbe's footage seamlessly to achieve the effect of the manor transforming back into the holodeck.
Virtually undetectable to all but the Bene Gesserit, these Face Dancers begin to replace leaders in the Imperium as a means for the Tleilaxu to seize control.
Kubrick used a near homophone of "CRM 114", "Serum 114", for the name of a drug injected into Alex to help his reformation in A Clockwork Orange (1971).
Most of his effective plans have come from Karen, including "Plan Z"—the only scheme to result in Plankton successfully stealing the formula and using it to his advantage—in The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie.
Plot Cybergirl is a Blue superheroine Human Prototype 6000 living under the secret identity of ordinary teenage girl Ashley Campbell.
Q puts together a makeshift one to fool Blofield, remarking that he made one for "the kids last Christmas." Water ball Used by Bond to "walk" on water when he is parachuted near Blofield's platform.
Lego Batman: The Video Game features batarangs (in two different colors), which can be used by four characters; Batman, Batgirl, Robin, and Nightwing.
His outfit consists of a pair of boots, white gloves, a red cape, and a crown atop his head, while his eyes are always in a closed state.
According to del Toro, Gottlieb is a "tweed-wearing, English, phlegmatic introvert that never leaves the lab".
In addition, the Foundation trilogy was consistently high in the Locus polls of all-time best novels, climbing to be voted the 3rd best 20th century science fiction novel in the 2012 poll, behind only Frank Herbert's Dune and Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game.
In the Kidsongs 1991 video: "Very Silly Songs", the Kidsongs Kids and their silly adult friends, Willy and Jilly, say the magic words "One and a two and a bop bam boom" to teleport themselves from one place of Silly-Dillyville to another.
Casting choices Tom Cruise, Johnny Depp, Brad Pitt, Nicolas Cage, and Leonardo DiCaprio were approached for the role.
Appears to be a Chinese fan, but when opened, several metal spikes with strings attached are thrown.
He is an inventor, whose various inventions frequently get out of hand and get him and the family into trouble.
"Gay bomb" is an informal term referring to a proposed non-lethal psychochemical weapon that was speculated by the United States Air Force in the 1990s.
Not that that tells us very much of course - the computer industry didn't even foresee that the century was going to end.
Anti-gravity research In 1921, while experimenting in the lab his parents had set up for him while he was still in high school, Brown discovered an unusual effect while experimenting with a Coolidge tube (hot cathode tube), a type of X-ray vacuum tube with two asymmetrical electrodes.
It is also the band's highest-charting song in the United States, climbing to number 26 on the Billboard Hot 100, and in Canada, where it peaked at number 10.
Some works feature magic that is performed through the use of certain words or incantations to cast spells.
Exactly 100 years earlier (in 1920) and in the same building, then a mansion, the upper-class girl Rakel Colt is getting ready to be photographed with her family.
After this, she visited a now paralyzed Hideo Kuze in hospital and eventually convinced him to undergo the cyberization procedure himself.
Bates' ambitions generally extend to finding menial work some distance behind the front lines, keeping his head down until the war is over and trying to get out of wearing regulation footwear.
In late 2008, season five and eventually all five seasons were made available through iTunes TV Shows store.
The game allows the player to transform at any time into three different robot forms: Cyborg, Dino, and Tank.
The winner of the competition was Final Frontier Medical Devices, which is now known as Basil Leaf Technologies.
The album cover for Just Push Play by Aerosmith (2001) features a "curvy female robot in a Marilyn Monroe-like pose.".
In the end, Apocalypse's horsemen are lost, Ozymandias betrays him, and he is forced to retreat by a combined assault of the X-Men and the Avengers.
Peabody ("Sherman, set the Wayback machine to..."), Sherman would set the Wayback controls to a time and place of historical importance, and by walking through a door in the Wayback machine, they would be instantly transported there.
Sterling further emphasized that while Cait Sith was Reeve's puppet, he was a puppet himself through the game for Shinra's higher ups and their own ambitions, until he rebels and earned his redemption by standing up to them.
Ohkawa specifically chose the idea of seven characters from two groups because she was influenced by religious groups but wanted to avoid Christian references.
Walt Simonson's Fantastic Four #350 controversially revealed that the Doom seen during Englehart's arc was a robotic imposter, with the real Doom returning in new armor to reclaim Latveria.
Cybergirl is an Australian-French children's television series that was first broadcast on Network Ten in Australia.
The assassin defeats Subaru in battle when they meet for the very first time since the events in Tokyo Babylon, but leaves the younger man alive.
While still alive, they enter the Pavulean Hell on a mission to reveal the existence and details of this Hell to the general population.
The ship has two thick outer rings (to reduce required energy) that generate the warp field—a contraction of space ahead, and expansion of space behind it.
Due to such an action being forbidden, he inserted the universe into Ice King's mind as it was the only thing just insane enough to retain such information.
In other media In the Star Trek episode "A Taste of Armageddon", people who were deemed war casualties by the government of Eminiar VII were required to enter suicide booths.
Naga is much more graceful than Lina and has an outrageously loud boisterous 'noblewoman' (ojousama) laugh (which Kanzaka said is similar to the laughter of Naga's mother) that most people in the Slayers world find unbearably obnoxious (to the point of rendering them physically powerless).
Caiera uses her Old Power to protect her womb, saving Skaar and Hiro-Kala from the blast, but landing them in fire.
He and the crew are rescued by the hovercraft Mjolnir (also known as the Hammer) whose crew is dealing with a mystery in the form of Bane, a crew member from another ship who is the only survivor of an ill-fated attack by the Zion fleet.
Mira and Rakel both stumble upon the black hole and are involuntarily pulled in by it, switching bodies and time periods.
(A similar theme is explored in Fred Saberhagen's Berserker novels.) Cultural reference It features a character, Lawrence Van Cott, that is modelled on science fiction author Larry Niven, whose full name is "Laurence van Cott Niven".
He differs from the previous incarnation by the fact that he died and was resurrected by nanite technology to become Bloodshot.
The plot concerns contact between humanity and a more technologically advanced extraterrestrial life form.
It is a variation on the related science-fictional concept of the force field and also related to the concept of suspended animation.
Samuel Butler's 1863 article Darwin among the Machines is a non-fiction essay which discussed the potential risks and possibility of the human race being superseded by thinking machines.
The next surrounding Dyson sphere would absorb this waste heat and use it for its computational purposes, all while giving off waste heat of its own.
While Superman frees the cities of Metropolis and Kandor, the villain launches a missile to the Kent farm in an act of spite.
It grossed a total of $70 million in the United States and Canada and $110.9 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $180.9 million.
Evelyn Necker Evelyn Clarice Sarah Necker is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
The kidney was successfully transplanted upon rewarming to a rabbit, the rabbit being euthanized on the 48th day for histological follow-up.
Fusion Home Energy Reactor converts household waste to power for the time machine's flux capacitor and time circuits using nuclear fusion, presumably cold fusion.
The ship's medical variant employs a detachable "sensor probe" stored in the bottom compartment when not in use.
GLaDOS also acts as the primary antagonist in a bonus level bridging the events of Portal 2 with Lego Dimensions, wherein Chell and Wheatley (returned from space redeemed with anti-gravity abilities) defeat her by performing a core transfer using the Space Core.
Instead of being imprisoned, Sykes is subjected to a treatment that ages him sixty years, the penalty for murder on Valeron.
Tarantino saved most of the Bride's character development for the second film, saying he wanted to make her scary rather than sympathetic for Volume 1.
merchandise would "cause devastating damage to Luxo and dilute the goodwill which Luxo has built up." Disney settled with Luxo ASA and agreed not to sell Luxo Jr.
Sometimes acting like a Kabuki performer, he is specially designed to drill through the earth and performs extreme rescue situations.
Given the fact the Revenge of Cronos robotic characters appear here in new human forms, the Blue Jet and the Rod Drill appearing with the usual robotic forms in Battle Hackers may be all-different robots.
After restoring her memory, which was lost due to the imprisonment, Gambit invites Danger to join the new X-Factor team.
The draft was accepted, and Sakamoto published Tank Tankuro's stories in the magazine for four years.
The episode's prologue depicts Benjamin Sisko (Avery Brooks) as First Officer on the USS Saratoga, in the Starfleet armada dispatched to confront the Borg at Wolf 359.
In the epilogue, it is revealed that Numataka was Ensei Tankado's father who left Tankado the day he was born due to Tankado's deformity.
Variants The use of the batarang has been in a state of constant development since its early appearances.
The armor is equipped with a prototype triple pulse generator, a laser net and a pair of retractable blasters mounted on the back.
Ultron made his live-action debut in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Avengers: Age of Ultron, portrayed by James Spader, who will reprise the role in the Disney+ series VisionQuest.
US military planned 'gay bomb' Air force looked at spray to turn enemy gay Air Force Considered Gay 'Love Bomb' Against Enemies US Military "Gay Bomb" Video (Republican National Convention blog)
See also Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter References External links Dark Horse Comic's product page Archived 2012-11-06 at the Wayback Machine The Amazing Screw-On Head at IMDb Complete pilot on Youtube
Tank Tankuro is considered one of the first robot and science fiction manga, inspiring characters like Osamu Tezuka's Astro Boy and Fujiko Fujio's Doraemon; however it was preceded by the 1929 comic story Jinzō ningen (Artificial human) by Suihō Tagawa.
Neo tells Morpheus that the prophecy was merely another system of control and that Zion's destruction is imminent.
Macy takes after her mother in terms of both appearance and fighting ability, and the queen is just as handy with a mace as her daughter.
This led her father to report her, and she was eventually imprisoned by the IMDF (Indian Mutant Defense Force).
Interviews with the following people are featured (in order of appearance): Tanya Jones, Chief Operating Officer, Alcor Michael Riskin, Ph.D., Alcor Board of Directors and Member Anita Riskin, Alcor Member Dr Arthur W.
Like the film's other character costumes, the Alpha 5 suit Rixon donned was specifically designed for the movie.
In Godplayers (2005), Damien Broderick surmises that a matrioshka brain would allow simulating entire alternate universes.
A good portion of the story's humour comes from Mahoro chasing after Suguru's secret stash of pornographic magazines which, given her training, she is easily able to find.
Through the code breaking in Project A, Mitra had discovered the coordinates of a wormhole which were in the sky.
The Souls of Pe and Nekhen, mentioned first in the Pyramid Texts, refer to the ancestors of the ancient Egyptian kings.
The term sant is a Sanskrit word "which differs significantly from the false cognate, 'saint'..." Traditionally, "sant" referred to devotional Bhakti poet-saints of two groups: Vaishnava and a group that is referred to as "Saguna Bhakti".
An event is a miracle only in the sense that it does not agree with our understanding of nature, or fit our picture of nature, or that it thwarts our expectations as to how the world should behave.
Religious law, such as canon law, includes both divine law and additional interpretations, logical extensions, and traditions.
See also Cambridge Ritualists Kalpa (ritual) Right conduct Notes References Abu-Zahra, JNadia (200).
Examples and Perspectives Neo-orthodox theologian Karl Barth defined dogmatic theology as the scientific exposition of the entire theoretical doctrine concerning God and God's external activity.
Jamaican Maroon Spirit Possession Language, spoken by Jamaican Maroons, the descendants of runaway slaves in the mountains of Jamaica, during their "Kromanti Play", a ceremony in which the participants are said to be possessed by their ancestors and to speak as their ancestors did centuries ago.
Early followers commonly referred to the manuscripts as "ancient records of the muddy waters" (泥海古記 doroumi kōki), though there were other contemporaneous interpretations such as "later record" (後記), "radiant story" (光輝), and "meritorious record" (功記).
This form also allows for a multiplicity of gods, as there is no contradiction in achieving omniscience by multiple entities.
Beliefs Yegor Kholmogorov outlined the principles of Nuclear Orthodoxy in a June 2007 lecture at the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics, where he stressed the Christian and eschatological nature of the ideology.
These were developed and transmitted verbally, from one generation to the next, for nearly two millenniums.
In his own inscription on the Ka'ba-ye Zartosht, Kartir states (KKZ 8–9) that he persecuted "Jews, Buddhists, Brahmins, Nasoreans (Judeo-Christians), Christians, 'Maktaks' (Mandaeans, Manichaeans?) and zandiks." Kartir's inscription is the earliest epigraphic evidence of the word zandik.
Abd al-Aziz Ibn Baz, the grand mufti of Saudi Arabia, supported the accords, while Yusuf al-Qaradawi opposed them.
Theological noncognitivism is the non-theist position that religious language, particularly theological terminology such as 'God', is not intelligible or meaningful, and thus sentences like 'God exists' are cognitively meaningless.
When one contrasts it to the popular heroic poem, such as Beowulf, one finds that they share certain common features.
For Joseph Glanvill rational fideism is the view that "Faith, and faith alone, is the basis for our belief in our reason.
The book is regarded as a pioneering critique of Christianity and Christian ethics by a modern Muslim scholar.
In other words, a person's good intent and good deed contribute to good karma and future happiness, while bad intent and bad deed contribute to bad karma and future suffering.
Traditional Jewish and evangelical scholars such as Collins explain this as a single author's variation in style in order to, for example, emphasize the unity and transcendence of God, who created the heavens and Earth by himself in the first narrative.
The cause of Copper's victory is that Copper has been demonstrated to be useful for all sorts of purposes, whereas Silver is merely for show or decoration.
Dating the Rede King Pausole, a character in Pierre Louÿs' Les aventures du roi Pausole (The Adventures of King Pausole, published in 1901), issued a similar pair of edicts: I.
The Epic of Gilgamesh in Sumerian literature features its hero Gilgamesh establishing his credibility as a leader after wrestling Enkidu.
Rule of Three Many Wiccans also promote the Law of Threefold Return, a belief that anything that one does will be returned to them threefold.
The location has recently rotated in a three-year cycle between sites in North America, Europe, and the rest of the world.
Concepts later associated with the Tree of Life draw in part on ideas found in Sefer Yetzirah, one of the earliest Jewish mystical texts, which presents creation as structured through sefirot and Hebrew letters functioning as organizing principles of cosmic order.
Lewis describes it, is one filled with awe, in which you "feel wonder and a certain shrinking" or "a sense of inadequacy to cope with such a visitant and our prostration before it".
Its line "Keep pure your highest ideal, strive ever towards it; let naught stop you or turn you aside, for mine is the secret door which opens upon the door of youth" is used as a maxim for ethical dilemmas.
Through séances, trances, and other forms of mediumship, these worlds can consciously communicate with each other.
Spiritualism influenced art, having an influence on artistic consciousness, with spiritual art having a huge impact on what became modernism and therefore art today.
The hadith below emphasizes that aniconism depends not only on what, but also on how things are depicted.
However, they are encouraged to not display them in private homes or in public, and to treat them with a special degree of reverence and respect.
These are, on the one hand, the giants and, on the other, the dwarfs who live in the shadows of the forests, umbragines...
In popular culture An invocation of Choronzon forms the basis for a 1980 episode of Hammer House of Horror entitled "Guardian of the Abyss", in which a cult called The Choronzon Society uses John Dee's scrying mirror to conjure Choronzon.
1 John 4:7: let us love one another: for love is of God; 1 John 4:12: No man hath beheld God at any time: if we love one another, God abideth in us, and his love is perfected in us.
Afterwards, captains were appointed over the soldiers to conduct the war, and to take-up positions at the fore of the battle, as well as at the rearward of military operations.
However, the deification of Ramesses II did incorporation an equation of himself as Amun, unlike in Tutankhamun's deification, but rather Ramesses II identified himself as a distinct person in Amun's likeness.
The "free soul" is said to leave the body and journey to the spirit world during sleep, trance-like states, delirium, insanity, and at death.
For example, the code of ethics of the American Institute of Certified Planners provides inadequate support for forecasters to avert this practice.
Jews who believed him to be the Messiah were originally called Nazarenes and later they were known as Jewish Christians (the first Christians).
There is also the expectation that Selassie will return for a day of judgment and bring home the "lost children of Israel", which in Rastafari refers to those taken from Africa through the slave trade.
Such incidences have resulted in legal repercussions, with notable cases occurring in 2007, 2011, 2012, and in 2018.
2011: Lahore On April 8, 2011, factory worker Mohammad Akhtar tore up a copy of the Bible at the gate of Sacred Heart Cathedral, Lahore.
Commonly it is found that the fleshly mind and impulse is quicker response than the response of forbearance.
Samuel Krauss wrote in 1901: As late as ten years ago it would have been absurd to speak about a Jewish art.
She also notes that one of her Thelemic informants questions the gendering of Nuit, calling it "merely a convenient metaphor".
However, they are all "subservient to the abstract, but active positive 'force of truth' [Ṛta]...which pervades the universe and all actions of the gods and humans." This force is sometimes mediated or represented by moral gods (the Āditya, e.g.
King Arthur's messianic return is a mythological motif in the legend of King Arthur, which claims that he will one day return in the role of a messiah to save his people.
Within the same work, Strabo compares Corinth to the city of Comana, confirming the belief that temple prostitution was a notable characteristic of Corinth.
University of California, Berkeley, "Messianity Makes the Person Useful: Describing Differences in a Japanese Religion in Brazil", presented at the Summer 2000 Asian Studies Conference Japan.
Theological determinism can also be seen as a form of causal determinism, in which the antecedent conditions are the nature and will of God.
Tukaram is believed to have been taken to Vaikuntha on Garuda, an event that is reported to have been witnessed by villagers.
Beliefs and practices There are three pillars of the religion, of which the key concept is Johrei, claimed to be a method of channeling divine light into the body of another for the purposes of healing.
Every paradigmatic system, whether one considers rationalism or empiricism, is based on axioms that are neither self-founding nor self-evident (see the Münchhausen trilemma), so it appeals to assumptions accepted as belief (in reason or experience respectively).
The word order is variable because Latin syntactical relationships are indicated by the inflexional endings, not by word order.
The common interpretation is that Lot offered his virgin daughters to the crowd as a means to sexually appease the crowd and protect his visitors from being raped.
Examples In terms of the attitude wherein an individual sees themselves as having to save another or a group of poor people, there is the notion that the action inflates their own sense of importance and discounts the skills and abilities of the people they are helping to improve their own lives.
Atonement "is closely associated to forgiveness, reconciliation, sorrow, remorse, repentance, reparation, and guilt".
These Amerindian temples were often placed on top of caves or subterranean springs, which were thought to be openings to the underworld.
Reception and influence This work became a model for similar works produced afterward, such as al-Farq bayna al-Firaq by 'Abd al-Qahir al-Baghdadi (d.
The manuscript was not cited by Tiendelenburg, Torstrik, Biehl, Apelt, and Ross in his critical editions of the treatise On the Soul.
There he gave his celebrated speech, the Gettysburg Address, wherein he hoped that the nation shall, "under God", have a new birth of freedom.
A meta-analysis of 60 studies on religion and crime concluded, "religious behaviors and beliefs exert a moderate deterrent effect on individuals' criminal behavior".
Table of Contents Themes The book contributes to interfaith dialogue by offering a critical examination of Christianity from a Muslim perspective.
This refusal stems from the belief that receiving from the created would engender gratitude aimed at the giver rather than God.
Multidimensional Is similar to a formalist approach, only differing in that it is more perceiving of how knowledge and disciplines were made among the specific labels given by the formalist aspect of this approach.
Judaism In the Hebrew Bible, God established the Mosaic covenant with the Israelites after he saved them from slavery in Egypt in the book of Exodus.
In law and society In the legal systems, the concept of atonement plays an important role with respect to criminal justice, where it is considered one of the primary goals of criminal rehabilitation.
On July 23, newly appointed Army chief General Sir Roland Walker said in a speech that the UK faced danger from an "axis of upheaval" with threats from an angered Russia, that China was intent on retaking Taiwan, and that Iran was likely to pursue nuclear weapons.
However, yoga guru Sadhguru, was overall critical about textbooks and other sources giving credit to figures like Madonna, and not Shiva (Adiyogi).
Other 20th century acts of apotheosis that Subin covers include that of Prince Philip and General Douglas MacArthur.
The reason was books were too removed from actual reality as these were written by people, interpreted by others, rewritten by people, obscured by others, etc.
Bhaduri Mahasaya – Maharshi Nagendranath pursued intense spiritual practices in solitude, especially Hathayoga and Pranayam, in a lonely cave in Monghyr and attained salvation there.
It serves as a handbook of theological views that might aid the reader in knowing what particular sects and individuals thought, and then what range of opinions was offered on the various questions debated within theology.
By the 1850s, advances in decipherment of ancient Egyptian scripts made it possible to fully translate ancient Egyptian texts.
See also Al Basty Hag in folklore Mare (folklore) Mora (mythology) Moroi (folklore) References External links Türk Mitoloji Sözlüğü, Pınar Karaca (Bastırık)
Triratna symbol The Triratna (Pali: ti-ratana or ratana-ttaya; Sanskrit: tri-ratna or ratna-traya) is a Buddhist symbol, thought to visually represent the Three Jewels of Buddhism (the Buddha, the Dhamma, the Sangha).
However, reciprocally, the relative sin or merit of a living individual could also affect that of past ancestors.
Desika insisted that the notion of divine perfection could only make sense in a framework that upholds a single god as the highest principle.
The Spiritualism religious movement in the nineteenth century espoused a belief in an afterlife where an individual's awareness persists beyond death.
Codex Ambrosianus 435 Codex Ambrosianus 435 is one of the most important manuscripts of the treatise.
See also 144,000 Christ of Europe Exceptionalism One true church Religiocentrism The Chosen One (trope) Theocracy White nationalism References Further reading Dave Dean Capucao (2010).
These texts are classified in five systems mentioned in one manuscript of Thikanesara (now at Khurai temple).
The God Worshipping Society of the Taiping Rebellion, which fused Anglo-American Protestant Christian and Chinese elements into a movement that focused the resentment of Han Chinese against the ruling Manchu Qing dynasty.
His categories are: igneous spirits, aerial spirits, terrestrial spirits, aquatic spirits, subterranean spirits, and tenebrous spirits.
These individuals come from diverse backgrounds, including artists, writers, occultists, scientists, musicians, and more, hailing from countries such as the United States, England, Canada, Germany, Australia, and Brazil.
Some evolve to a higher state, some regress asserts the Jaina theory, a movement that is driven by the karma.
Likewise, if the accused, unable to bear such tortures, admits to crimes which he has not committed, who, I ask you, has the responsibility for such an impiety?
To venerate a saint is to honour a person who has been identified as having a high degree of sanctity or holiness.
An etymological meaning of sophrosyne as "preservation of thoughtfulness" is proposed in Cratylus 411e.
The worst kind is desecration of the Blessed Sacrament, as it is the most important and most sacred item in Catholicism (far more than any relic or historical artifact whatsoever).
John 19:20 states that this was written in three languages – Hebrew, Latin, and Greek – and was put on the cross of Jesus.
This value, true love, is the aspiration and hope of all human beings and the manifestation of the best in human nature.
Bṛhatphala बृहत्फल or Vehapphala वेहप्फल (Vietnamese: Trời Quảng Quả; Chinese: 广果天; Tibetan: འབྲས་བུ་ཆེ་, Wylie: 'bras bu che; Thai: เวหัปปผลา or พรฺหตฺผลา – Devas "having great fruit".
In a bitheistic system, by contrast, where the two deities are not in conflict or opposition, one could be male and the other female (cf.
Śrutis has been variously described as a revelation through anubhava (direct experience), or of primordial origins realized by ancient Rishis.
35 Then he got up again and walked once back and forth in the house, and went up and stretched himself upon him.
Smith uses vervain to protect humans from vampires, in an extension of vervain's fabled magic-suppression powers against witches.
The Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius's Meditations details a philosophy of service and duty, describing how to find and preserve equanimity in the midst of conflict by following nature as a source of guidance and inspiration.
There is no formal canonization process in Hinduism, but over time many men and women have reached the status of saints among their followers and among Hindus in general.
It is a fundamental aspect of Islamic theology, and different Islamic schools (e.g., Ashʿarī, Māturīdī, and Salafī) have varying interpretations of ʿAqīda while agreeing on its foundational principles.
I do so with the burning desire that the message of God’s merciful love, proclaimed here through Saint Faustina, may be made known to all the peoples of the earth and fill their hearts with hope.
Ancient Greece Ancient Greek religion and its Roman equivalent have many figures who were born as humans but became gods, for example Hercules.
On the other hand, they are not to take the task of inspiring faith to the extent of hypocrisy or inappropriateness, for example, by taking on other professions apart from being a monastic, or by courting favours by giving items to the laypeople.
Nevertheless, there is no clear mention of legal punishments in the Quranic text regarding the apostasy.
Some prostitutes also viewed the action of sexual service and sexual pleasure as an act of devotion to the goddess of love, worshipping Aphrodite through an act rather than a physical dedication.
In that framework, adhikāra is seen as necessary so that a practitioner can obtain the prerequisite knowledge and states of mind necessary to properly absorb the more 'advanced' texts and gain the spiritual benefit thereof.
Brett Shults proposes that Pali texts may employ the Brahmanical motif of a group of three refuges, as found in Rig Veda 9.97.47, Rig Veda 6.46.9 and Chandogya Upanishad 2.22.3-4.
Pe (Greek Buto) was a Lower Egyptian town, not known for its Horus worship, but Ra had awarded the town to Horus after his eye was injured in the struggle for the throne of Egypt.
Within Jewish mysticism and folklore, particularly in Kabbalistic traditions, protective practices were also used to ward off these malevolent spirits.
(Conditions for formation of uniate orthodox groups.) Authority of the Ecumenical Councils for faith and life.
Some of these, notably at Naaran in the West Bank, have had the living figures removed, leaving inanimate symbols such as the Temple menorah intact.
But he proposes an ingenious method to tackle the question: Just as we can come to know the properties and operations of something through scientific demonstration, i.e.
Reception The impact of Hartley's concept was analysed for English literature, and influences can be found above all in Samuel Coleridge and William Wordsworth, e.g.
When the Krotonians, spurred by Madame Blavatsky, found Hollywood suffocating their peace-filled theosophies, they decided to move to Ojai California and that is where they have been ever since.
While his more traditional work was well received, two of his works from the campaign generated considerable controversy.
History Nuclear Orthodoxy was first formulated in the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union among Eurasianist political circles.
They sometimes hurl stones at women who do not dress according to their strict dress code and have even broken into a woman's house and beat her up, because they did not approve of her behavior.
Moral goodness is a necessary condition of holiness, even though moral goodness alone does not suffice to make a person holy.
The belt dates from circa 1530 and is made of cotton, white and red snail shells, black seeds, pearls, glass, and obsidian.
The genre of lives of the saints was introduced in the Slavic world in the Bulgarian Empire in the late 9th and early 10th century, where the first original hagiographies were produced on Cyril and Methodius, Clement of Ohrid and Naum of Preslav.
The Fates, primary antagonists of season five of the superhero television series Legends of Tomorrow The Fates/Moirai, referenced in Edward P.
Lincoln's maxim and philosophy were, 'What is to be, will be, and no prayers of ours can arrest the decree.' He never joined any church.
The term is used in the Indonesian and Malaysian languages with very similar meanings and spellings, i.e.
They cite the billions of dollars in arms sales to Venezuela and the construction of Iranian nuclear facilities as well as the rejection of added sanctions on Iran.
Polkinghorne argues that an apparently simple event like boiling water, where a small quantity of liquid changes into a large quantity of steam (a phase transition) would seem miraculous to someone who had not seen it every day.
His suggested explanation, however, did not deal with the question of why such a belief became central to the religion.
In the twentieth century, theologians such as Paul Tillich described God as the "ground of being" rather than a being among others, influencing post-theistic and existential theology.
The fourth section sets forth the Pope as the supreme judge in matters of faith and morals, though making the concessions that the Pope may err in questions of fact known by ordinary human knowledge and when he speaks as a mere unofficial theologian.
Sacred mysteries may be either: Religious beliefs, rituals or practices which are kept secret from the uninitiated.
Names Atonement and atoning both derive from the verb atone, from the Middle English attone or atoon (meaning "agreed" or "at one").
Okada's teaching is represented by a number of his works, such as Foundation of Paradise and Johrei: Divine Light of Salvation, which has been edited and translated by the Society of Johrei, an offshoot of COWM.
"The Commonitory of Vincent of Lérins, for the antiquity and universality of the catholic faith against the profane novelties of all heresies".
Judaism The first mention of the fear of God in the Hebrew Bible is in Genesis 22:12, where Abraham is commended for putting his trust in God.
In rejecting Kamwana, his former followers referred to Chilembwe as American, and an African minister at Blantyre Mission regarded his views on race as American, not a description with millennial significance.
The modern formulation was popularized by Thomas à Kempis' devotional book The Imitation of Christ written in early 15th century.
Etymology The term orthopraxy comes from the Greek orthos, meaning "straight", and praxis, meaning "action".
Almost in the Index In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, of his own initiative, placed the first volume on a new edition of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying that the pope had direct temporal authority over the whole world.
Divine law is any body of law that is perceived as deriving from a transcendent source, such as the will of God or gods – in contrast to man-made law or to secular law.
The phoenix, identified as a controller of winds, was called "Messenger of Di" (史風) and received its own sacrifices.
In parapsychology and Spiritualism, an apport is the alleged paranormal transference of an article from one place to another, or an appearance of an article from an unknown source that is often associated with poltergeist activity or séances.
Content The Cave of Treasures belongs to the genre of "rewritten Bible" that recounts biblical history from the creation of the world to the life of Christ within a different framework; in this case, a Syriac one.
This consequently works in a manner that promotes future loyalty of the vassal since the suzerain had previously done favors for them.
In 2021, the Wauwatosa building was listed as among the five most haunted places in Wisconsin by Milwaukee Magazine.
The Je Khenpo is also responsible for many important liturgical and religious duties across the country.
As spiritual and mystic traditions developed, the Jewish concept of the soul underwent a number of changes.
He believed that the "thousand-year kingdom" began with the birth of Christ, but that the thousand years should not be understood literally.
Gallery Biblical scenes INRI examples See also Christ the King Ichthys Names and titles of Jesus in the New Testament Titulus Crucis References Notes Citations === Sources ===
The most important site is located in Malhargadh village in Guna district where Taran Svami spent his final years and where his last rites were performed.
Imperial Rome and Christian Triumph: Oxford History of Early Non-Pauline Christianity 1998 ISBN 0-19-284201-3 Gaus, Andy.
The council did, however, retain the prohibitions on eating blood or meat containing blood, and meat of animals that were strangled, and on fornication and idolatry, sometimes referred to as the Apostolic Decree.
When the rime and the blowing heat met, the liquid melted and dropped, and this mixture formed the primordial being Ymir, the ancestor of all jötnar.
The recurrence of the nundinae was also considered a dies festus and as such nefas by some Roman scholars as Julius Caesar and Cornelius Labeo, because on it the flaminica dialis offered the sacrifice of a goat to Jupiter in the Regia.
Since we agree in rejecting without reservation the teaching of Eutyches as well as of Nestorius, the acceptance or non-acceptance of the Council of Chalcedon does not entail the acceptance of either heresy.
Extraordinary means are those "which cannot be obtained or used without excessive expense, pain, or other inconvenience, or which, if used, would not offer a reasonable hope of benefit." They involve a disproportionately great burden on the patient or community.
According to Hayyim ben Joseph Vital, women could not become dybbuks because their souls did not participate in gilgul.
The conversation begins when two British students ask Neuburg about a version of the story in which Crowley turned him into a zebra and sold him to a zoo.
Rizal meant by "blind faith" was, since it was impossible to comprehend God as He was plus supra, he could have only hinged his belief on the fact that "God was God." As such, he did not deny nor did he accept the religious explanations of the mortals around him.
Bede's commentary (written around 705) was the most important commentary since Ticonius and played a leading role until the time of Joachim of Fiore (d.
In Introvigne's opinion, the most significant portraits of the mahatmas "in Theosophical history" were painted by Schmiechen.
For these reasons the scarab was seen as a symbol of this heavenly cycle and of the idea of rebirth or regeneration.
This development from the relative or habitual to the absolute is evident in the terms ethics and morality as well, both being derived from terms for "regional custom", Greek ἦθος and Latin mores, respectively (see also siðr).
The identification of the Roman Catholic Church with the Whore of Babylon is kept in the Scofield Reference Bible (whose 1917 edition identified "ecclesiastical Babylon" with "apostate Christendom headed by the Papacy").
Museum no.: CBS 08322 Archived 2011-09-28 at the Wayback Machine Barton, George Aaron., Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, Yale University Press, 1918.
Other uses The term 'body of light' is also used in Tibetan Buddhism, particularly in the Dzogchen and Mahamudra traditions.
People from neighbouring villages were invited to help celebrate this ritual, in which men in the village then take shots at the cub with blunted ceremonial arrows, until the time came for it to be slaughtered.
At the time of its establishment, it was the first school dedicated to the teaching of Spiritualism, and as of 2025, it remains the only such institution in the world.
A cake of light contains flour, honey, Abramelin oil, olive oil, beeswing, and bodily fluids such as semen, menstrual blood, vaginal fluids, or a mix thereof.
Hence Pope Paul VI's papal encyclical of 3 September 1965 on the Eucharist was titled, from its opening words, Mysterium fidei.
Each sephira and path is assigned various ideas, such as gods, cards of the Tarot, astrological planets and signs, elements, and so forth.
Yantra In esoteric traditions such as tantra, particularly the Sri Chakra tradition, the main icon (yantra) has nine interlocking triangles.
Other contextual meanings of the term include "race, caste, family, fertility symbol, grain or seed".
One study found that praying for a friend or thinking positive thoughts about that person every day for four weeks increases the chances of forgiving that friend or partner, which leads to a better relationship.
Burke's religious thought was grounded in his belief that religion is the foundation of civil society.
Noll writes, "At least early on, Lincoln was probably also a Universalist who believed in the eventual salvation of all people." Lincoln was often perplexed by the attacks on his character by way of his religious choices.
Critics argue that forgiveness interventions may increase negative affect because they try to inhibit the person's feelings towards the offender.
Canonization The Orthodox belief is that God reveals saints through answered prayers and other miracles.
Similarly to many religions, the Ainu also gave prayers and offerings to their ancestors in the spirit world or afterlife.
Though kangaroo meat was once unpopular with modern Australians, it has become a lot more popular in recent years due to its reputation as a low-fat and low-emission meat, and can be found in most supermarkets.
In an interview conducted in September 1980, three months before his death, Lennon told Playboy journalist David Sheff: "People always got the image I was an anti-Christ or antireligion.
They argue that the conditional promise of 1 Kings 9:4–7 seems to undercut this unconditional covenant.
§ Placenta origins) that the concept of the supernatural fylgja cannot be completely dissociated from this secondary meaning; in fact, there may well be a connection to the hamr, referring to the skin used by shapeshifters (hamramr, cf.
In contrast to supersessionism, Latter Day Saints do not dispute the "chosen" status of the Jewish people.
In contrast, Calvin believes that the practice of praying to saints is a demonstration of "distrust, because they are either not contented with Christ as an intercessor or have altogether robbed him of this honour".
'Systematic theology', on the other hand, is broader in compass than dogmatics, if the latter is taken to be concerned with teaching which has acquired ecclesial definition and approval, since systematic theology occupies itself more generally with Christian claims about reality.
Earlier excavation reports predominantly referenced magnetic north, according to current Hokkaido data.
Nagendranath Bhaduri – Bhaduri Mahasaya served as an Acharya of the Baluhati branch of the Adi Brahmo Samaj.
Ahmad al-Tayyib, the Grand Imam of al-Azhar, highly praised the book by saying that it has several words that deserve to be written in gold water.
Within Thelema, Ra-Hoor-Khuit is called 'Lord of the Aeon' (which began in 1904 according to Thelemic doctrine), and 'The Crowned and Conquering Child'.
Hart continues to say that, in other funerary papyri, the pelican can predict safe travel for a dead person in the Underworld.
Randhir Singh, founder of the AKJ, stated: Without fully knowing the Rehat [practice] of a Gursikh, another Gursikh should not accept food from their hands.
Nyelvrokonaink kultúrája és hagyományai [The book title means: “Uralic peoples / Culture and traditions of our linguistic relatives”; the chapter title means “The belief system of Uralic peoples and the shamanism”] (in Hungarian).
Other examples include Makoto Yukimura's Vinland Saga, a manga featuring the Viking invasion and rule of England, where the character Askeladd, a Norwegian-Welsh half-blood, recounts the tale of his ancestor King Artorius and his glorious return from Avalon to save Britannia.
The English translations below are from Gelbert (2011), while the Mandaic transliterations are derived from Gelbert (2011, 2021).
Participants were led to believe they were assisting in an unrelated experiment in which they had to inflict electric shocks on another person.
On the other hand, Sun Ho, a Singaporean Christian pastor and former singer, praised Madonna's music contribution in the field of dance music in 2006.
Mendenhall, covenants were originally established as legal customs and then later were replicated in the field of religion.
Rabbi Pini Dunner discusses that humility is to place others first; it is to appreciate others' worth as important.
It has been pointed out that "The laws governing such matters as hospitality, the rights of the heads of households, marriage, blood-feuds and payment of damages find precise echoes in Vedic India and ancient Greece and Rome".
Biblical and rabbinic sources tend to emphasize covenantal and ethical interpretations of the holiness of the People of Israel.
In times past, cruel practices were commonly used by legitimate governments to maintain law and order, often without protest from the Pastors of the Church, who themselves adopted in their own tribunals the prescriptions of Roman law concerning torture.
This was the third time during Inslee's tenure the state's budget was passed in the last week of the legislative session.
Education and career Nordhaus was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the son of Virginia (Riggs) and Robert J.
Eventually, this cost grew so great that any new challenges such as invasions and crop failures could not be solved by the acquisition of more territory.
He "does not intend to have a cell phone ever." Smil is known for being "intensely private", shunning the press while letting his books speak for themselves.
His speeches and networking with world leaders at international meetings such as the United Nations Climate Change Conferences have also been influential.
The Energy Gang Shah was a founding co-host of The Energy Gang, a podcast dedicated to exploring the technological, political, and market forces driving energy and environmental issues.
Yohe also worked with the Core Writing Team to prepare the overall Synthesis Report for the entire Assessment.
Lynch said LaRouche members began to impersonate her and her researchers in telephone calls, and called her "Fat Lynch" in their publications.
Copenhagen Consensus Bjørn Lomborg chose Tol to participate in his "Copenhagen Consensus" project in 2008.
I will defend myself." In 1987, a number of LaRouche entities, including the Fusion Energy Foundation, were taken over through an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding.
Jaccard has been a professor at Simon Fraser University since 1986, where he teaches courses in environment and resource economics, sustainable energy and materials, and energy and materials economic and policy modeling.
On July 2, 2013, Zucchet (an avid bridge and card player at Duke University), finished in 4th place for $143,642 in Event #54, $1,000 No-Limit Hold'em, at the World Series of Poker.
Shihab-Eldin currently serves as an adjunct professor at the Executive Academy of the Vienna University of Economics and Business (WU), teaching in the MBA Energy Management program and sitting on its advisory board.
He taught two graduate courses: Ec2680 Environmental and Natural Resource Economics and Ec2690, Environmental Economics and Policy Seminar.
Selected publications Books Auctions: Theory and Practice, Princeton University Press, Princeton, US, 2004.
Three years later, Weitzman was promoted to associate professor, and he remained in this position until 1972 when he joined the faculty at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an associate professor.
Prior to the Loan Programs Office, Shah gained prominence as an American clean energy entrepreneur, author and podcast host.
Consisting of academics drawn from across Africa, the United States of America, and the United Kingdom, the board assisted in the development and broadening of technical workforce skills across Africa.
Honors Scientific and engineering academies Among many honors, he is a Member of the United States National Academy of Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and an Elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
In April 2004, Currie warned of the 'revenge of the old economy' after decades of a lack of investment in the old economy, claiming that higher commodity prices were likely needed to attracted capital.
His research considers the degree to which US companies avoid pollution regulations by importing dirty products; an explanation of why pollution is worse for middle-income countries; and how to use self-reported happiness measures to put a dollar value on air quality.
Education and qualifications Tertzakian has an undergraduate degree in Geophysics from the University of Alberta, and a graduate degree in Econometrics from the University of Southampton, U.K.
A founding co-director of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program (2017–2019) he joined the faculty of New York University in 2019, moving to Columbia University in 2022.
Jigar Shah (born August 30, 1974) is an American entrepreneur who served as the director of the Loan Programs Office (LPO) in the U.S.
The CNN article article was subsequently shared by Questlove and others; Wagner recounted the episode in a conversation with Holly Buck.
His analysis on this subject has featured prominently in the Financial Times, which described it as "thought provoking": [Newell] argued that "there has never been an energy transition" because, as each new technology has emerged, it has merely added to older sources, rather than replacing them.
Those books include, Managing the Global Commons: The Economics of Climate Change (1994), which won the 2006 award for "Publication of Enduring Quality" from the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists.
Among books promoted as serious intellectual statements by important thinkers, I don't think I have ever read a shoddier work.
He taught courses in micro- and macro-economics, econometrics, industrial organization, and economic strategy.
In 2009, Tol published a controversial paper that combined data from several earlier studies, concluding that at least some amount of global warming could lead to economic gains.
Johnson wrote in 1983 that both the Fusion Energy Foundation and the National Democratic Policy Committee had attracted some 20,000 members, as well as 300,000 magazine subscribers.
His father returned from military service in World War II and, considering himself unable to care for his son, placed him in an orphanage.
He also led the negotiations of the foreign investment provisions of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
Awards In 1996 he was awarded the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and in 2007 he was presented with the Leontief Prize for Advancing the Frontiers of Economic Thought by the Global Development and Environment Institute.
The Mayan and Chacoan regions had no powerful complex neighbors and so could collapse for centuries or millennia, as could the Western Roman Empire.
Sophie Brochu (born 1963) is a Canadian economist and manager from Quebec who worked for 22 years at Gaz Métro/Énergir.
Climate and energy policy Wagner was an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund from 2008 to 2014 and lead senior economist from 2014 to 2016.
See also Andy Stirling David Elliott Energy Fair Gordon Walker World Nuclear Industry Status Report == References ==
Since the sun will continue to shine for billions of years to come, the earth's mineral stock is the scarcer one of these two main sources of low entropy.
2, Brill, Leiden Staff "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" (1984) Contemporary Authors: A bio-bibliographical guide to current writers in fiction, general nonfiction, poetry, journalism, drama, motion pictures, television, and other fields Vol.
Albert Julius Meyer (14 May 1919 – 31 October 1983) was an American economist who taught at Harvard University for 28 years.
Early life Broadman was born in New York City, attended The Loomis Chaffee School, and graduated from Brown University in 1977 with an A.B.
Gary Yohe later accused Lomborg of "deliberate distortion of our conclusions", adding that "as one of the authors of the Copenhagen Consensus Project's principal climate paper, I can say with certainty that Lomborg is misrepresenting our findings thanks to a highly selective memory".
Instead of putting goods and their prices directly into the index we should reduce all goods to their constituent characteristics.
In 2012, Keohane returned to the Environmental Defense Fund as vice president for Global Climate, and later served as Senior Vice President for Climate.
Education After completing his Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree in Environmental Sciences and his M.A.
Education Ph.D.: University of Grenoble, Department of Economics / Institute of Energy Economics and Policy, 1987.
During the 2008 financial crisis, he advised the UK and US governments and developed a new form of auction (the Product Mix auction) to help the Bank of England alleviate the liquidity crisis.
He would reprise the role as band leader with an ad hoc jazz group, Lee Schipper and the Mitigators, who performed primarily in conjunction with energy-related conferences.
He specialises in the economics and policy of nuclear power (of which he is a critic), liberalisation and privatisation of the electricity and gas industries, and trade policy on network energy industries.
From that point on, he predicts, ever deepening scarcities will cause widespread misery, aggravate social conflict throughout the globe, and intensify man's economic struggle to work and earn a livelihood.
He stood for Lothian East at the 2024 general election, where he finished in seventh place out of seven candidates, winning 577 votes and a 1.2% share.
Instead of a peak, Yergin predicted that future oil production would plateau as increasing prices moderate demand and stimulate production.
His best-known work, The Collapse of Complex Societies (1988), examines the collapse of Maya and Chacoan civilizations, and of the Western Roman Empire, in terms of network theory, energy economics and complexity theory.
Spatial Ecological-Economic Analysis for Wetland Management: Modelling and Scenario Evaluation of Land Use, Cambridge University Press.
He also holds a Master of Science in Management of Technology from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Intense, authoritarian efforts to maintain cohesion by Domitian and Constantine the Great only led to ever greater strain on the population.
Later in his life, Georgescu-Roegen would regret having turned down Schumpeter's generous offer at this point in his career.
Currie was a key speaker alongside other leading private, public and Governmental figures at the Future Minerals Forum 2024, where he contributed to the conference's key focus on the mineral sector across Africa, Western and Central Asia.
While on leave from Georgetown in 2010–11, he served as a Senior Economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
EPA's highest honor for working with a team of economists that completed "complex and rigorous analysis of greenhouse gas mitigation options, leading to President Clinton's announcement of an aggressive climate change policy." March 1998.
He is a professor in the management department at Western Washington University, where from 2016 to 2023 he served as Wilder Distinguished Professor of Business and Sustainability, an endowed professorship.
Wagner's latest academic work on this topic, joint with Kent Daniel of Columbia University and Bob Litterman of Kepos Capital further emphasizes the importance of pricing climate risk and uncertainty.
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
Tainter points out that it can be seen as a rational preference of individuals, many of whom were better off.
Shortly thereafter, two Hollywood environmental organizations, Earth Communications Office (ECO) and the Environmental Media Association, were formed.
He was elected a fellow of the Econometric Society in 1994, a fellow of the British Academy in 1999, and a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2005.
Georgescu-Roegen found that two of his other main sources of inspiration, namely Karl Pearson and Albert Einstein, also had a largely Machian outlook.
oil import policy, regulatory reform of the natural gas industry, and oil exploration and development in non-OPEC developing countries.
References External links Jigar Shah – Department of Energy Creating Climate Wealth // Amazon Plumer, Brad; Friedman, Lisa (May 11, 2023).
where he did his undergraduate work, majoring in physics and electrical engineering, and received his bachelor's degree in 1966.
He has been a senior fellow of SIEPR since 1998 and a senior fellow by courtesy at the Hoover Institution from 2001 until his retirement.
Economist Filip Palda summarizes the importance of Nordhaus's insight when he writes, The practical lesson to be drawn from this fascinating study of lighting is that the way we measure the consumer price index is severely flawed.
Broadcaster Since 19 October 2019, Milov has been broadcasting a weekly program about international politics, Hugs With Dictators, on his YouTube channel.
Richels has served on a number of national and international advisory panels, including committees of the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the National Research Council.
In many cases, buyers used the rebate to buy something bigger and more high-powered than they would have otherwise.
He was also a member of the United Nations Environment Programme Economic Options Panel, which reviewed the economic aspects of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
Birol's work at the IEA has led to a number of his international honours and recognitions (see table below).
Career In the 1990s and early 2000s, Newell was a senior associate at the global advisory and digital services provider ICF International, a teaching fellow at Harvard University, and a senior fellow at Resources for the Future.
From 1981 to 1984, he worked at Phillips Petroleum Co., where he was Director for International Affairs.
He was the Scottish National Party Member of Parliament (MP) for East Lothian from 2015, until he lost his seat to Martin Whitfield of the Labour Party at the 2017 general election.
In the heated controversies that followed the report, Georgescu-Roegen found himself largely on the same side as the club, and opposed to the mainstream economists.
While at Harvard he co-authored an article arguing for placing a $10.00 tariff on imported oil to curb U.S.
Though trailing in early polls, he won election with 52% of the vote, a three-point margin over his Republican opponent, state attorney general Rob McKenna.
On September 18, 1996, a full-page advertisement appeared in the New Federalist, a LaRouche publication, as well as The Washington Post and Roll Call.
He obtained a master's degree in Electrical Engineering (Technology and Policy Program) in 1993 and a doctorate in Management Science in 1998, both at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
His doctorate thesis, An Econometric Model of Tourism Demand and a Computable General Equilibrium Analysis of the Impact of Tourism: The Case of Fiji Islands was assessed to be the most outstanding work, earning him the Mollie Hollman Medal in 2004 at Monash University.
Sweeney is an American economist and engineer specializing in energy economics, environmental policy, and natural resource economics.
President Prodi remarked that the EU hydrogen R&D initiative would be as significant for the future of Europe as the space program was for the U.S.
"Skip" Laitner, in People-Centered Initiatives for Increasing Energy Savings, Karen Ehrhardt-Martinez and John A.
He pointed out that the study "stops short of the most that can be supported on a cost benefit basis" and stated that "it does not seem reasonable" to rely solely on Tol's own FUND model when alternatives "reported in the peer-reviewed literature are also credible".
When LaRouche's "heavily fortified" estate was surrounded, he at first warned law-enforcement officials not to arrest him, saying that any attempt to do so would be an attempt to kill him.
From 2001 to 2007, he was an Assistant Professor and then associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management.
A 98-year-old farmer accused Weitzman of multiple manure thefts from the farm, while Weitzman argued he had permission from the farmer's son to take the manure.
According to his ICREA profile page as of March 2015, his research is on "the intersection of economics, environmental science and innovation studies.
See also Societal collapse Collapsology State collapse Wicked problem References Further reading Kohr, Leopold: The Breakdown of Nations, 1957.
He is a winner of the Spinozapremie (1996), the European Prize in Regional Science, and Founder's Medal of the Regional Science Association International.
Currie earned a Master of Arts Economics at the University of Chicago in December 1990, and a PhD in economics from the university in June 1996.
Following the demise of the IMG, Kerevan joined the Labour Party and served as a councillor for the party in Edinburgh from 1984 to 1996.
Stephen DeCanio (born 1942) is a Professor of economics, emeritus, at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Employment History On completion of his doctoral studies, Narayan was appointed a lecturer at the Griffith Business School, on the Gold Coast, Australia, and was promoted to senior lecturer in 2005.
at Queens University, Leach was appointed as an assistant professor at HEC Montreal, a post he held for three years.
Jaccard, 2014, "A comparative assessment of economic-incentive and command-and-control instruments for air pollution and CO2 control in *China’s iron and steel sector," Journal of Environmental Management.
With Tadeusz Patzek, he is author of Drilling Down: The Gulf Oil Debacle and Our Energy Dilemma, published in 2011.
Evidence for this was publishing 15 letters to the editor in the New York Times on energy efficiency.
One activist said he attended meetings where members were writhing on the floor saying they needed de-programming.
(convening lead author) et al., 2012, "Energy Policies: Objectives and Instruments," Chapter 22 in Johansson, T., Patwardhan, A., Nakicenovic, N.
In 2007-12 he served as convening lead author for energy policy in the production of the Global Energy Assessment.
The aim of the NCLC was to win control of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) branch – the university's main activist group – and build a political alliance between students, local residents, organized labor, and the Columbia faculty.
He has played a significant role in various EU policy projects and has taught extensively on topics related to sustainable development and energy policy across various international platforms.
He was a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second, Third and Fourth Assessment Reports (the IPCC shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore) and served on the Synthesis Team for the US National Assessment of Climate Change Impacts on the United States.
The theme of the presentation was that security assistance in Central America would be enhanced through economic growth and prosperity.
The student involved was allowed to adapt the thesis and the graduation ceremony took place in 2014.
William Martin served for ten years (from 2000 to 2010) as Chairman of the Nuclear Energy Advisory Committee during the administrations of George W.
The process has already begun." His 1998 book, The Biotech Century, addresses issues accompanying the new era of genetic commerce.
His grandfather Olney Flynn was mayor of Tulsa and the Republican nominee for Governor of Oklahoma in 1948.
In addition, Parker is a Research Fellow and Visiting Scholar at the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy, where he leads platform industry research studies and co-chairs the annual MIT Platform Strategy Summit.
His published research includes a 2001 study in the Journal of Public Economics showing how the environmental Kuznets curve can be explained by a one-person, two-good model without market failures.
Jaccard, 2013, "A tale of two climate policies: Political-economy of British Columbia’s carbon tax and clean electricity standard." Canadian Public Policy.
Testimony, Analysis, and Commentary Newell has testified on multiple occasions in front of the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, most recently on global climate emissions trends and clean energy advancements.
Climate Shock details how what we know about global warming is bad and what we do not know is potentially much worse.
He is also a research associate with the National Bureau of Economic Research and a Fellow of the Econometric Society.
In October 2023, Currie was appointed as Director of the Company by the Board of international drilling contractor, Borr Drilling.
He holds an AB and a PhD in political economy and government from Harvard University, as well as an MA in economics from Stanford University.
Memberships and directorships Yergin is the current vice chairman of S&P Global, appointed during the company's merger with IHS Markit.
5 Behn, Wolfgang (2006) "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" Concise Biographical Companion to Index Islamicus Vol.
Rifkin delivered a keynote address on transforming the European Union into a smart third industrial revolution paradigm.
Securing Nebraska’s Energy and Economic Future: Creating Jobs, New Economic Opportunities and Health Benefits through Productive Investments in Wind Energy and Energy Efficiency, by John A.
He was also one of the world's experts on Wilhelm Furtwangler, a 20th-century symphonic and operatic conductor, and collected one of the most complete sets of his recordings.
Public policy He was principal auction-theorist designing the UK '3G' mobile-phone license auction that raised £22½ billion in spring 2000 and was far more successful than several parallel exercises on the European continent.
One of his early works is the wildly popular introductory textbook, Economics, co-authored with Paul Samuelson.
According to Reuters, "since then he has given advice to every administration." 1980s–1990s He founded Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) with Jamey Rosenfield in 1982 with the purchase of a $2 file cabinet from The Salvation Army.
However, in most analyses, the damages that would stem from dramatic climate change are not taken into consideration.
He is also a senior economic research fellow for the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA).
Another article he co-wrote, “Pipelines, Platforms, and the New Rules of Strategy,” was cited in Harvard Business Review’s 2025 “Definitive HBR Strategy Glossary” under the category of Platform Strategy.
Additionally, degrowth is unlikely to gain significant social or political support, making it an ineffective strategy for achieving environmental sustainability.
In 2021, he completed a book on climate change, titled Climate Future: Averting and Adapting to Climate Change (Oxford University Press).
He said ‘‘Lee was one of the first people to point out that people don’t want to consume energy, but they want to consume energy services, like transportation, comfortable rooms, cold beer and so forth.
He previously served as an associate editor for the journal Management Science and was President of the Industry Studies Association.
He acknowledges that this level of taxation is too low to significantly discourage fossil fuel use but argues it would help to stimulate the development of fuel-saving technology and improve the competitiveness of renewable energy sources.
Milov co-authored with the late Boris Nemtsov in 2008 a report on the Putin administration's failures, which was suppressed.
Nicholas Stern argued that the damage function does not capture many of the most important risks to society.
Pachauri, chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, for having "contributed substantially to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)," thus contributing to the IPCC's award of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize.
As a UC Berkeley student and vibraphonist, he led his jazz group to victory at the Notre Dame Jazz Festival in 1967.
Trip to the United States, meeting Schumpeter In autumn 1934, Georgescu-Roegen went to the United States.
Leach says that carbon pricing is not necessarily and unconditionally going to "achieve a better outcome" than with regulation or cap and trade.
In Energy Efficiency: Building a Clean, Secure Economy (2016), he argued that improvements in energy efficiency have played a central role in U.S.
After teaching at Tufts University (1970–72) and Yale University (1972–78), he joined the faculty at UCSB in 1978.
References External links Arik Levinson publications indexed by Google Scholar Arik Levinson home page.
Another branch, represented by Robert Pindyck, holds that integrated assessment models cannot capture the complexity of the climate-economy nexus.
The book explains what we know and don't know about climate change, argues that despite our best intentions and efforts temperatures are likely to rise substantially over the coming decades, and shows how forms of adaptation can be used to reduce the impact of warming.
See also List of Yale University people List of American non-fiction environmental writers List of economic advisors to Donald Trump List of University of Cambridge people Predicting the timing of peak oil References External links Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Daniel Yergin at IMDb
External links Utah State University Archived 2021-09-18 at the Wayback Machine, Joseph Tainter official faculty page How Do You Know When Society Is About to Fall Apart?
Reception Included among Smil's admirers is Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who has said: "I wait for new Smil books the way some people wait for the next Star Wars movie." "He's a slayer of bullshit," says David Keith, an energy and climate scientist at Harvard University.
Gomez-Echeverri (eds.) The Global Energy Assessment: Towards a Sustainable Future, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
His testimony included two appearances before the Energy and Commerce Committee, Subcommittee on Energy and Environment.
The investigation committee under Jaap Zwemmer concluded in March 2015 that Nijkamp had re-used earlier publications in new papers on a certain scale, without proper referencing and the committee qualified this as "questionable research practice".
He later went on to work with others on a specific element of this process: the diminishing marginal returns on innovation.
He lives in a house with unusually thick insulation, grows some of his own food, and eats meat roughly once a week.
Under his leadership, association agreements increased with major producers of energy, especially with countries outside the OECD in the Global South, such as India and China.
Olmstead (Island Press, 5 January 2016) References External links Nat Keohane, Center for Climate and Energy Solutions
Ein Reiseführer für überzeugte Daheimbleiber, Wien, Ueberreuter-Verlag 2003, ISBN 3-8000-3957-5 2011: But Will The Planet Notice?.
1MDB controversy In 2009 Morse provided a valuation for the Malaysian state fund 1MDB for petroleum exploration and production assets associated with PetroSaudi International Ltd.
His father Irving Yergin worked at Warner Brothers and was editor of The Hollywood Reporter and a former journalist in Chicago.
That model changed the status quo, allowing organizations to purchase solar energy services under long-term predictably priced contracts and avoid the significant capital costs of ownership and operation of solar energy systems.
doi:10.1086/704493 References External links In memorium article by Gernot Wagner and Robert Stavins Home page
The court ruling was credited with beginning the process of regulating the release of genetically engineered organisms into the environment in the United States and around the world.
Career 2012 to Present: Founder of Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates, based in Tucson, Arizona, where he leads a team of consultants.
Fatih Birol (born 22 March 1958) is a Turkish economist and energy expert, who has served as the executive director of the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) since 1 September 2015.
Corruption allegations Three days after becoming acting Mayor, Zucchet resigned from the City Council after he was convicted in U.S.
1983: Move from New York to Loudoun County The Washington Post wrote that LaRouche and his wife moved in August 1983 from New York to a 13-room Georgian mansion on a 250-acre section of the Woodburn Estate, near Leesburg, Loudoun County, Virginia.
The National Program was established to ensure continuity of the United States government in the event of a nuclear attack.
Dunn also serves on the faculty of the Institute for Energy Studies, on the Graduate Faculty Governance Council, and on the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Advocacy Council.
Weitzman also derived the Gittins index – a celebrated result in the applied probability literature – independently from (and in parallel to) John C.
Jaccard), 2011, "Policy, Financing and Implementation," In Edenhofer et al., IPCC Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
A "perspective paper" by Anil Markandya of the University of Bath on the Yohe/Tol study stated that "a short time period analysis is misleading" when all the costs are incurred during the period examined but benefits continue to accrue after its conclusion.
Representative Sid Morrison chose not to run for reelection representing Washington's 4th congressional district, instead mounting a campaign for governor.
Professional career Kerevan held academic posts at Napier College, including Senior Lecturer in Economics, from 1975 to 2000, specialising in energy economics.
Reporting on the growing controversy over automation and technology displacement in 2011, The Economist pointed out that Rifkin drew attention to the trend back in 1996 with the publication of his book, The End of Work.
He has served as Editor of the Energy, Environment and National Resources area of the Operations Research Journal.
Economics has been called a "canonical textbook", and the development of mainstream economic thought has been traced by comparing the nineteen editions over the 1948–2010 period.
He studied mathematics as an undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley and received his Ph.D.
Williamson writing for The Regulatory Review, a publication of the Penn Program on Regulation, notes how "changes in the composition of goods manufactured in the U.S.
New York, Hill & Wang/Farrar Straus & Giroux, ISBN 0-8090-5207-5 2015: Climate Shock, joint with Martin Weitzman, Princeton University Press 2015, ISBN 978-0-691-15947-8 (Financial Times-McKinsey Top 15 Business Book of the Year 2015.
Jeff Currie is an economist and currently Chief Strategy Officer of Energy Pathways at The Carlyle Group.
Physicist Edward Teller, a proponent of SDI and X-ray lasers, told reporters in 1984 that he had been courted by LaRouche but had kept his distance.
He obtained his PhD from UC Berkeley in management science in 1976 and has been at Stanford since 1977.
Nordhaus' model is now widely spread and is used to simulate how the economy and the climate co-evolve." Many of the news outlets that reported on Nordhaus's prize noted that he was in the early wave of economists who embraced a carbon tax as a preferred method of carbon pricing.
After graduating from Collège de Lévis, where she performed on stage under the supervision of Denis Bernard and Robert Lepage, Brochu was admitted to the Conservatoire d'art dramatique de Québec.
Yergin has been a member of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board under presidents Bill Clinton, George W.
IEA leadership While at the International Energy Agency, Birol has overseen several major changes in the approach of the organization.
The End of Energy Obesity: Breaking Today's Energy Addiction for a Prosperous and Secure Tomorrow (2009).
In 2013, Nordhaus chaired a committee of the National Research Council that produced a report discounting the impact of fossil fuel subsidies on greenhouse gas emissions.
From 1979 to 1981, Morse served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy.
In Rifkin's 1989 revised edition of Entropy:..., entitled Entropy: Into the Greenhouse World, its "afterword" was written by Georgescu-Roegen.
Gorbachev also hated my guts and called for my assassination and imprisonment and so forth." He asserted that he had survived these threats, because he had been protected by unnamed U.S.
In 2014, Narayan received the Scopus Young Researcher award for the best three authors in Australia in the Social Science category under the age of forty.
After graduation he refused to join the Communist party, undermining his job prospects, though he found employment at a regional planning office.
He previously worked as a senior fellow at the organization from 1997 to 2006 and has served on its board of directors since 2011.
Measuring the Energy Reduction Impact of Selected Broadband-Enabled Activities within Households Archived 2016-03-22 at the Wayback Machine, by John A.
Vickers retained machine guns and other restricted weapons in his personal collection, knowing the filed forms were fraudulent, and transferred other machine guns and restricted weapons to other FFLs and third parties.
His work has received both support and criticism, particularly from some conservative evangelical communities who disagree with his interpretations.
Early life and education Tomines attended the University of Waterloo, where he received his undergraduate degree in Biomedical Science.
The Order of the Good Death is Doughty's way of creating a community while teaching individuals to accept death.
The product was ultimately never released, with security concerns noted in a Kickstarter post ending the project, with Xyla returning to finish her university degree and subsequently published a description for how to build a do it yourself Parihug.
The article revealed details of her personal life, which drew criticism from Wu and from others because according to her agreement with Vice, such details should have been left out of the article, out of fear of retaliation by the Chinese government and also to protect her own private life.
YouTube channel health related podcast In September 2022, Varshavski launched a health related podcast on his YouTube channel named "The Checkup Podcast with Doctor Mike", which was renamed to "The Checkup with Doctor Mike".
Science communication While searching for a better work-life balance than that provided in research and academia, Macdonald found opportunities to still teach through a combination of conducting introductory courses and speaking at science fiction conventions.
Awards and nominations Notes References External links Official website NileRed's channel on YouTube
Kurzgesagt acknowledged they had presented one argument as fact, and had not considered other theories on the matter.
His family life is closely connected to his career, and he occasionally brings his children aboard his boat to share the experience.
In 2016 the Czech edition of Forbes featured Rubeš in their 30 under 30 list: 30 of the most talented Czechs under 30 years old.
During his early days as a YouTuber, he often recorded videos while walking through neighborhoods, or hiking, discussing general topics with a scientific and educational perspective.
Career One of the first sightings of the Mediterranean red bug in North America was recorded by Peltz, who was then working as a middle school science teacher.
Learning Processing : A Beginner's Guide to Programming Images, Animation, and Interaction (2nd ed.).
As detailed in his plea agreement, from June 2018 to March 2021 Vickers, allegedly with cooperation from Sean Reidpath Sullivan and Matthew Jeremy Hall imported machine guns and other restricted firearms under ATF Form 6 by falsely representing them as items for police department demonstration use.
The podcast covers subjects related to sexual health, mental health, physical health, and social health.
In January 2015, she defended her thesis in Earth sciences, entitled "Prediction of terrestrial convective structures", before training in scientific communication at the Institut de la communication et des médias [Fr] in Grenoble.
He has expressed a desire to pass on his knowledge and tradition to his children, while leaving the choice of pursuing lobstering to them.
They made their relationship public online in 2014, two years after starting their channel, in response to derogatory comments and in order to be visible role models for young gay people interested in science.
In 2014, he won the prize of "Person of the Year" in the 7th edition of Maroc Web Awards, Creativity category.
Vsauce3 has collaborated with YouTubers Joe Hanson from It's Okay to be Smart and Vanessa Hill from BrainCraft.
Huang is known for his "Song Challenge" series, an extension of the idea behind Songs to Wear Pants To, in which Huang takes on musical challenges submitted by viewers via social media.
Huang's channel is known for a wide variety of musical genres, influences, and projects, often thematically focused.
It is very, very hard, as any teacher will tell you, to unlearn something that makes you comfortable and makes you feel smart, but Mr.
Educational career Until 2021, Beat was a high school social studies teacher, teaching at Blue Valley High School in Overland Park, Kansas and eventually Tonganoxie High School in Tonganoxie, Kansas.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, he started "Week Week" in the Kirkland House with his friends, promoting creative methods to bring residents together.
Scott has also collaborated with other YouTubers, including his Tom Scott plus channel, several comedy series with The Technical Difficulties, and the brain-teaser podcast Lateral.
In 2025 she founded Physical Phones to manufacture and sell retro-style Bluetooth desk phones modeled on her own setup.
The most viewed video of the channel as of September 2024 is Do You Hear "Yanny" or "Laurel"?, which has 66 million views.
The episodes are released on Nebula one week earlier than YouTube, which has caused large spikes to Nebula's usage traffic in the past.
Products in the line include acne cleanser and lotion, clarifying treatment with retinol, and daily moisturizer.
On his self-titled YouTube channel, active since 2014, Scott creates educational videos across a range of topics including history, geography, linguistics, science, and technology.
His older brother, Marek Hoffman, is also a youtuber, operating the channel AdBuster, where he posts videos about brand management, product reviews, and vlogs.
She also started a joint podcast with YouTube medical popularizer Sandra Ortonobes (La Hiperactina), titled Tú de ciencias y yo de letras.
He later worked for four years at Apple as a product designer in their Special Projects Group, where he authored patents involving virtual reality in self-driving cars.
Foreman's family is Jewish, and in a statement written for the London Jewish News in 2018, he described his fondness for his family's Jewish traditions, even though Foreman himself is an atheist.
Early life Mason received a BSc (2:1) (1993) and PhD (1997) in chemistry from the University of Birmingham.
To think it does lends itself to a hyper-adaptive view of life." References External links Reich, Henry.
Vickers has an affinity for Rhodesia, and in 2017 posted a photo of a Rhodesian FAL with the caption "It's time to slot floppies.
Various media outlets have highlighted her significant following on YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok, where she has received attention for her posts aiming to educate young people about sexual health.
In mid 2024, the Awesome Coffee Club rebranded to "Keats and Co." as they began selling tea as well as coffee with a similar philosophy.
I am so proud and pleased that The Brain Scoop and Emily have found what is absolutely their best possible home." Another educational channel, Mental Floss, based on the magazine of the same name, was launched in February 2013.
In an interview with The New York Times, he said that each video takes him four to five hours to make, writing a full script and searching Google Scholar for academic papers to include as screenshots.
Vizel struggled from a young age to fit in in the community, noting in 2022 that "the female space was very suffocating" to her.
The show's format has since been modified into short documentaries exclusive to the streaming service Nebula with the same concept.
Following his studies Bonnet worked as an executive in the field of research and development at the company Sika-Trocal.
Stevens realized that his most popular content tended to incorporate more serious real-world concepts, often exhibiting interdisciplinarity.
On 23 October 2015, Furze released a video showing off the start of a new multi-part build, in which he would construct a Hidden Blade to promote the new Ubisoft game, Assassin's Creed: Syndicate.
Daniel Shiffman (born July 29, 1973) is a computer programmer, a member of the Board of Directors of the Processing Foundation, and an Associate Arts Professor at the Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) at New York University Tisch School of the Arts.
On the topic, Hank has stated, "There are problems with the institutions of dreams, [but] I am in favor of them.
The educational segments became more popular, and since September 9, 2012, only the educational segment (known as DOT.) has been presented.
She was awarded an Aurora Astronomy Scholarship that enabled her to take an overseas trip to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Caltech, Carnegie Observatory, UCLA, Macdonald Observatory Texas, University of British Columbia, NRC Observatory Victoria and CHFT Hawaii.
Foxlin was awarded the Aviation Inspiration Award from the Living Legends of Aviation in January 2026.
Petermann, "Anwenderseminar Dynamisch-Mechanische Analyse und Rheologie", ecomed Verlag, Landsberg 2000, 69–78, Hg.: H.
Every episode contains one or more experiments, in which either volunteers or Stevens himself participates, that relates to the topic of the episode.
Some of her projects are useful, while others are funny or absurd; her useful projects are usually more popular.
The paper described the podcast as having "in-depth debates and banter that is actually amusing." Grey reported a podcast listenership of approximately "a quarter million" downloads per episode as of September 2015.
Despite being raised in a Christian home, he was not openly Christian until some time before he began his musical career.
In 2021, Aleksic created an online petition to change the flag of Albany, saying that the flag was poorly designed by vexillology standards and was also linked to the Dutch Nazi Party and other white supremacist organizations.
Jet Lag: The Game Denby's YouTube channel Jet Lag: The Game hosts a travel competition show created by Denby and Half as Interesting's writers, Ben Doyle (son of writer Larry Doyle) and Adam Chase.
Reeder first gained considerable media attention in 2016, after posting a video of himself drinking water containing a small, diluted amount of cyanide.
Kampf's television career began with co-hosting the competition series Schrott or Not on KiKa in 2017, and she has hosted a segment on Die Sendung mit der Maus called Lauras Machgeschichten since 2018.
The Polish Investment and Trade Agency exhibited her works in Berlin, Hamburg, Helsinki, Geneva, and Madrid to promote Polish design.
In 2021 he was nominated for the Estonian Science Communication Award as the best communicator of science and technology.
Typical topics include technology etiquette; movie and TV show reviews; plane accidents; vexillology; futurology; and the differences between Grey's and Haran's personalities and lifestyles.
Her tours focus on "the Hasidic lifestyle and the reasons behind the community’s insular nature", and she purposefully tries to avoid critique or judgment of Hasidic culture.
He won the Wiki Science Competition 2017 in the category of non-photographic media with a video of a frozen drop of water in a frigid environment.
In January 2014, Amy Wallace, another science journalist, wrote an article about how science journalists can find themselves the target of ugly personal attacks, and the attacks on female journalists include criticisms of their sexual attractiveness, and their sexual morality.
She was originally photographed "in a pressed collared shirt, slacks and matching jewelry", but felt she was misrepresenting herself; Doe returned to the shoot hours later, stripped to her underwear, and slathered herself in homemade mud to retake the photos.
The contestants are led to believe that they are competing in a social deduction game, in which one of the group has become a secret saboteur among them (much like The Mole or The Traitors), with the rest of them working collaboratively in challenges they are tasked to complete during their trip.
The live performances returned in March 2020 with a planned three-city tour including stops in Columbus, Ohio, and Carmel, Indiana, with a third performance set for Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Education Baxter completed bachelor's and master's degrees in biology at Buffalo State College in 2014 and 2016, respectively.
Foreman has no plans to bring the series back, stating that "with everything that’s going on, I now find it impossible, irresponsible even, to maintain the cheery, neutral tone that the series used to have." Map Men Map Men is an edutainment mini-series which premiered in 2016.
sanctions against JSC Kalashnikov Concern between July 2014 and March 2021, in the Southern District of Florida.
In 2017, he appeared on MythBusters: The Search as a contestant and in 2020, Pan built a gun that shoots masks onto people's faces to protect them from COVID-19.
Later, on October 29, 2021, Rober and Donaldson created #TeamSeas, another fundraiser which had a goal of $30 million.
He has discussed the physical demands and risks of lobstering, including the dangers of being caught in ropes and the challenges posed by Maine’s limited-entry licensing system.
Notable collaborations Santoro has been a special guest narrator on CinemaSins' Everything Wrong With...
In 2019, she teamed up with Sébastien Carassou for the international science film festival, and their script on paleoclimatology won the Science & Live TV – Science "shorts" prize.
In 2023, Hendy appeared on season 5 of the travel competition show Jet Lag: The Game, which was filmed in New Zealand.
"Populism, Technology and Interactivity: Review." New York Times, Lateition (East Coast) ed.: NJ.13.
He now helps students communicate mathematics to other people, speaks at schools, does media work, and occasionally writes about maths.
He received letters of encouragement from President Joe Biden and NASA administrator and former Florida Senator Bill Nelson.
He competed on the same team as Sam Denby against Adam Chase and Ben Doyle in racing to claim the most countries in the Schengen Area within six days.
In another video, Foxlin went on a cross country road trip through the southern and western United States, collecting a piece of wood from trees grown in each of the states, which she machined into wooden puzzle pieces of a map of the country.
After leaving Kiryas Joel, Vizel joined another Orthodox community, but has since left Orthodox Judaism altogether.
Several videos on the channel feature Savage donning cosplay that conceals his identity and walking across comic convention floors.
Stevens' online content attracted the interest of Ben Relles, who invited him to become a member of the online comedy group then known as Barely Political.
Turntable Health In 2012, Tony Hsieh invited Damania to visit Las Vegas, where Hsieh was in the process of investing $350 million of his own money in a project he hoped would revitalize Downtown Las Vegas (The Downtown Project).
Some of their videos are also available in French, Hindi, Arabic, Brazilian Portuguese, Japanese and Korean.
Similar experiments however, such as him drinking heavy water, "hydric acid" (tongue-in-cheek), and breathing in all the noble gases, remain available as of January 2021.
Following her graduation from UCLA, she received Suborbital Citizen Scientist Astronaut Training with Project PoSSUM.
On September 20, 2018, Roper announced he would host the YouTube Original special Could You Survive the Movies.
Career In early 2012, Varshavski joined Instagram to document his life as a medical student and combat the notion that "you can't have a life in medical school".
Business ventures Education In 2019, Huang partnered with Studio (formerly Monthly) to create a 30-day music production course called Complete Music Production.
A new branding scheme designed by Natasha Jen was adopted in December 2014 to bring a "grown-up" feel to the channels.
In April 2021, Rober and Jimmy Kimmel hosted a live stream, raising $3 million in support of NEXT for AUTISM.
Popular culture The Comedy Central game show @midnight mentioned her growing Instagram popularity during an opening segment.
He designed and delivered hardware on several JPL missions, including AMT, GRAIL, SMAP, and Mars Science Laboratory.
In 2009, the record label caught the attention of YouTube, who praised the label on its official blog.
His channel initially released video game-related content until the popularity of his educational series DOT saw discussions of general interest become the focus of Vsauce, encompassing explanations of science, philosophy, culture, and illusion.
The goal was to raise $20,000,000 for the Arbor Day Foundation by 2020, while the Arbor Day Foundation would plant one tree for each dollar raised.
It has been awarded grants by Bill Gates' bgC3, and has struck a partnership with PBS Digital Studios to continue developing more series, although the majority of its funding comes from viewer support via Patreon.
Early career In 2012, Scott was a presenter in the Sky 1 series Gadget Geeks alongside Colin Furze and Creative Technologist Charles Yarnold, where he was responsible for the creation of software solutions.
Following ten years of Cortex, CGP Grey announced a break from Cortex, with the podcast temporarily switching to an interview format.
In December 2023, Wu was named as the new maintainer of The Essential Guide to Electronics in Shenzhen, a print book that provides guidance for electronics industry business in Shenzhen and especially Huaqiangbei.
Vizel has offered tours of Williamsburg professionally since 2013, and began giving tours full time in 2017.
A fifth-generation lobsterman, he documents his work and sustainable fishing practices through videos shared on platforms like TikTok, Instagram, and YouTube, where he has amassed a following.
Nidhal Guessoum (Arabic: نضال قسوم, romanised: Niḍāl Qassūm; born September 6, 1960) is an Algerian astrophysicist.
Myers' blog were "among the two most popular secularist hubs online." Mason has used his online persona to critically examine a range of topics, including proposals to build roads surfaced with glass solar panels.
Vickers faces a maximum sentence of five years in federal prison for conspiracy to violate federal law regulating automatic firearms and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for conspiracy to violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The costumes were widely featured on news channels such as CBS News, CNN, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Fox, Yahoo!
This was the fifth crewed flight operated by Blue Origin, and their 21st flight overall to reach space.
He also participated in Birthright Israel, a free ten-day trip to Israel for Jewish adults between the ages of 18 and 26.
In September 2015, Scott created a full-size emoji keyboard out of fourteen standard keyboards to type every standard Unicode emoji.
Larry Vickers is the author of the "Vickers Guide", a series of reference books that launched in 2015, detailing firearms such as the Colt AR-15, M1911, and MP 40.
Mason is a British chemist and YouTuber with the online pseudonym Thunderf00t (also VoiceOfThunder).
The modifications were performed by her, Kampf, mechanic Marcos Ramirez, and YouTuber Rich Benoit, whose channel Rich Rebuilds often featured the modification of Teslas; several other friends were informally involved.
The agents, equipped with geiger counters, did not find anything of concern, and Reeder himself said that they were only trying to help him not get in trouble in the future.
Early life and career William Henry Green II was born on May 5, 1980, to Mike and Sydney Green in Birmingham, Alabama, but his family soon moved to Orlando, Florida, where he was raised.
In 2017, Echazarreta was a research assistant at UCLA for the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science, where she experimented with various materials to serve as both the PCB and body of the robot while maintaining electrically isolated portions.
The semimagic square Parker created uses some numbers more than once, and the diagonal 232 + 372 + 472 sums to 4107, not 3051 as for all the other rows, columns, or diagonal.
Collaborations Some people or channels Michael Stevens of Vsauce1 has collaborated with include Bill Nye, BrainCraft, Derek Muller, Good Mythical Morning, The Filthy Frank Show, and others.
Her dissertation was titled "Culturally responsive Science Communication: The messengers, messages, and voices in communicating science through Hip-Hop".
Parker has also toured the UK solo and as part of comedy group Festival of the Spoken Nerd, along with Helen Arney and Steve Mould.
In 2021, Muller hosted Pindrop, a YouTube Original series exploring unusual places around the world, as seen from Google Earth.
Usui gained attention in February 2023 for her detailed explanation of the aborted first launch attempt of the first H3 test rocket, and in March 2023 for her call to support JAXA after the failed second launch attempt.
Channel BrainCraft videos are about science, with many episodes discussing phenomena related to sleep, memory, and the science of food.
In December of that year, she created a Patreon account to receive money directly from viewers while announcing a deal with GoldieBlox to release child-appropriate edits of her videos.
The channels feature videos on scientific, psychological, mathematical, and philosophical topics, as well as gaming, technology, popular culture, and other general interest subjects.
He also held visiting professorships at the German-Jordanian University in Jordan and the Beijing University of Chemical Technology in China.
The film was scheduled to be released on May 8, 2020, after having been initially scheduled in November 2019, but was later postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in India.
The game is often themed, and consists of five rounds of two statements each, relating to the theme, with one statement being true, and the other being false.
Crawford is a public educator on his YouTube channel where he lectures on Old Norse language and discusses literature and mythology.
The production company behind these is Pemberley Digital, which according to Hank Green's Reddit userpage, he helped co-create.
On April 8, 2024, Denby's production company, Wendover Productions, announced production on The Getaway, a reality game show which premiered exclusively on Nebula in July 2024.
In a Q&A video, he clarified that the last place he lived in before moving to the United States was the city of Donetsk in Ukraine.
Echazarreta transferred to UCLA in 2016, completing her Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 2019.
On International Women's Day 2017 she was listed as one of the 43 most influential women in 3D printing, a male-dominated field, by 3D Printer & 3D Printing News.
They upload videos twice a week, having “normal” episodes about a certain topic, and “field notes” episodes in which they answer viewers' questions and share things they own or have found.
Nonetheless, Green's novels have been successful, leading him to be included on Time's 2014 "100 Most Influential People" list.
Beat posts various videos on the channel relating to United States government and history - especially regarding United States presidents.
At Christmas time in 2021, along with Joe Barnard, she launched a seven foot tall Christmas tree 300 feet into the air, with a "rocket stuffed up its ...
Since 2012 Bonnet is a visiting professor at the institute for Biomechanics and Orthopaedics at German Sports University Cologne.
Prehistoric Road Trip In May 2019, Graslie announced that she would be producing and hosting a 3-hour series, on paleontology in the American Midwest, for PBS and WTTW; filming took place throughout 2019.
While at Tonganoxie High School, Beat and his students petitioned United States President Barack Obama to visit the school in 2015, but the effort was unsuccessful.
He is managing director of the Institute for Applied Materials at the Cologne University of Applied Sciences where he also teaches materials science.
in Classics and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics from Texas Tech University; an M.A.
While at university, Parker wrote comedy for Pelican, the students' magazine, and produced comedy sketches.
Foxlin's appeal to the FAA was successful in 2025 and she was issued a special medical certificate, and she subsequently flew across the continential United States in her Cessna 140.
Club and Newsweek reported on a video of him dissolving a hot dog in piranha solution, which went viral.
Awards 2022 Woman of Distinction Award from the American Association of University Women Ebony Magazine Power 100 Trailblazer in STEM 2022 Named to Forbes Magazine's 30 Under 30 in Science 2020 Named to Fortune Magazine's 40 Under 40 in Health 2018 Arthur A.
Pac Tom project In 2006, Murphy started a project of running every mile of every street in the city of Pittsburgh: over 1,500 miles in total.
He is also the co-founder of merchandise company DFTBA Records, crowdfunding platform Subbable (acquired by Patreon), game company DFTBA Games, and online video production company Pemberley Digital, which produces video blog adaptations of classic novels in the public domain.
In October 2020, Peltz joined Discovery Education as Mystery Science became a wholly owned subsidiary; Mystery Science was acquired for $140 million.
Cath in College was a vlog and blog that presented her Stanford experience in a diary-like style, showing scenes such as studying, parties and dorm life alongside reader Q&As.
His 2014 "Evolution vs Natural Selection" video on the MinutePhysics channel received criticism from the NCSE.
“It was definitely an obstacle for me to learn about a brand new culture and to learn a brand new language.
"Wipe It Down," Baxter's parody of Lil Boosie's "Wipe Me Down," contained information and safety tips related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
She transitioned to a full-time engineer at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory as part of the Europa Clipper Ground Support Equipment group.
In April 2022, The Anthropocene Reviewed was chosen to be the 2022 common read at the University of Mississippi.
Echazarreta has spoken to Mexico's congresses Senate of the Republic and Chamber of Deputies in support of increasing STEM education for women and expanding Mexico's spaceflight program.
As revealed in a behind-the-scenes video, Moffit voices and composes the background music for the videos, while Brown is the primary illustrator.
market and fill the gap left by the sanctions against Kalashnikov Concern" named "American Kalashnikov." Vickers had met with Kalashnikov Concern executives in North Carolina and started to receive consulting fees from American Kalashnikov starting from 2014.
Early life Vizel's paternal grandfather became Satmar following the Holocaust, and her father grew up in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
He was also nominated to awards Tech Awards 2017, Popularyzator Nauki 2018, and Grand Video Awards 2022.
Early life and education Graslie earned her bachelor's degree in Studio Art from the University of Montana in 2011.
Peter Hadfield (born 1 July 1954) is a British freelance journalist, author, and geologist, who runs the YouTube channel Potholer54, which has over 200,000 subscribers.
In 2017, Muller began uploading videos on his newest channel, Sciencium, which is dedicated to videos on recent and historical discoveries in science.
His Instagram account went viral after he was featured in BuzzFeed and People magazine named him The Sexiest Doctor Alive in 2015.
Muller presented in the film Vitamania: The Sense and Nonsense of Vitamins, a documentary by Genepool Productions, released in August 2018.
He also funded 100 abortions for Ukrainian women in Poland, who were raped by Russian soldiers, citing and criticising laws which make it difficult for them to get treatment.
Her November 27, 2013, video, which addressed the situation of women in STEM fields and inappropriate comments she received on her own postings, received a high level of media attention.
Beauty and the Bolt With a classmate, she launched a 501-c(3) non-profit called Beauty and the Bolt to empower women and minorities to excel in engineering.
He later earned a Master of Science in mechanical engineering from the University of Southern California (USC) in 2014.
In November 2023, Green joined a lawsuit by Penguin Random House, the Iowa State Education Association, and fellow authors Laurie Halse Anderson, Malinda Lo, and Jodi Picoult, against the state of Iowa over a new law that banned books that depict sex acts from schools.
in curriculum, instruction, and the science of learning from the University at Buffalo, and was awarded the SUNY Chancellor's Award for Student Excellence.
AsapScience, stylized as AsapSCIENCE, is a YouTube channel created by Canadian YouTubers Mitchell Moffit and Gregory Brown.
He went to college in upstate New York, earning two degrees: one in physics and another in sociology.
Keller stated that these efforts were intended to pressure Mason to change what she considered sexist and islamophobic content on his channel.
She received a Bachelors of Science in Psychology from Texas A&M University before pursuing postgraduate medical studies at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, where she received her Doctorate of Medicine.
Kurzgesagt made this statement in response to a December 2022 video which accused them of having been "basically bought off by billionaires".
In 2014, her channel "The Brain Scoop" was listed on New Media Rockstars Top 100 Channels, ranked at #96.
In December 2018, Rober posted a video showing how he tricked parcel thieves with an engineered contraption that sprayed glitter on the thieves, emitted a foul odor, and captured video of the thieves.
He completed all coursework towards a Master of Music at Indiana University Bloomington, but did not graduate.
The official response stated it would be too costly to replace the current signs; however, Parker said he only asked for a "precedent for the new signs".
Shiffman received a BA in Mathematics and Philosophy from Yale University and a master's degree from the ITP.
Parker has made videos about unboxing calculators, including the Little Professor; he presents these videos as a member of a fictional "Calculator Appreciation Society".
Adam Viktor Aleksic ( ə-LEK-sik; born January 3, 2001), known online as Etymology Nerd, is an American linguist and content creator who produces videos exploring the origins of words.
Hill's videos use stop motion and paper craft animation to explain neuroscience, psychology and human behavior.
Career Prior to working on YouTube, Roper used his film degree for various jobs in television and advertising.
In 2011 Mould and Parker together started MathsGear.co.uk, a website aimed at selling stuff they prepare for their mathematics shows.
Ragusea announced that he would drop from his usual 2 videos a week along with the podcast to only 1 video a week plus the podcast on December 19, 2022, in a video titled "The next phase of our relationship".
The channel was created in May 2012 and had acquired more than 7 million subscribers by March 2018, and 10 million by 2025.
Together with his brother, Marek Hoffmann, he also hosts YouTube channel Tube Raiders, where they publish travel and urban exploration vlogs, which in January 2026, had 345,000 subscribers.
BrainCraft is an educational video series on YouTube created by Australian science communicator Vanessa Hill.
He has four degrees, in law, economics, business, and sociology, including from the University of Southampton, London School of Economics, and Warwick Business School.
Stevens, in the video "A Defense of Comic Sans", notes that the text font Alsina was used by the Vsauce channels because of its close resemblance to the handwriting of Nik Guinta, the creator of the original Vsauce logo.
Since then, videos on topics such as the greenhouse effect, the age of the universe, and several on black holes have been released.
The origins of many recently adapted genes have now been traced to this period, creating effects such as regional differences in skin colour and skeletal gracility.
He argues that the event was an exceedingly improbable one and questions the likelihood of it having happened elsewhere in the Universe.
The book was described as having significant, "broad" coverage, but not as much "depth", making it a potential resource for students and researchers looking to find more-detailed references.
Only A Theory: Evolution and the Battle for America's Soul is a 2008 book by the American cell biologist and Roman Catholic Kenneth R.
Despite this, the review recognised the book's call for altruistic education and reform as sincere, though doubted its practical impact.
"You did it yourself in nine months" discusses developmental biology, especially the work of Lewis Wolpert.
Oppenheimer writes that there was only one migration out of Africa that contributed to the peopling of the rest of the world.
rex and the Crater of Doom is a nonfiction book by UC Berkeley professor Walter Alvarez that was published by Princeton University Press in 1997.
Originally, the pamphlet was prepared as a lecture delivered by Pannekoek within the circles of the social-democratic parties of the Netherlands and Germany.
The book received positive blurbs from linguists Noam Chomsky and Norbert Hornstein, professor of evolutionary genetics Gabriel Dover, and professor of cell biology and anatomy Stuart Newman.
Around 1959 or 1960, as more and larger invertebrate groups were being addressed, the incompleteness of the then-current state of affairs became apparent.
In December 2004 the National Academy of Sciences held a colloquium in honour of Mayr's 100th birthday at the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Center of the National Academies of Science and Engineering in Irvine, California.
For decades the most enlightened writers in the fields of science and religion had accepted that much of the Old Testament, and Genesis in particular, had to be read in a metaphorical sense...
Much of the book is devoted to his research team's efforts at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology towards mapping the Neanderthal genome as part of the Neanderthal genome project.
Systematics and the Origin of Species from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist contains a reassessment of previous evidence regarding the mechanisms of biological evolution.
“Over evolutionary time, predators get better at catching prey, which prompts prey animals to get better at evading capture.” He examines cruelty in nature, such as Ichneumonidae, wasps that lay their larva in live caterpillars, which they consume from the inside out.
The devastation precipitates a war with Earth's colonies on the outer planets, with whom a struggle for control of the solar system existed.
Work on the book proved difficult at times, according to illustrator Borin Van Loon, as the schedule of the author Jonathan Miller was, "always taken up with lighting Rigoletto at the Royal Opera House or making a television series on the human body.
Fisher, and Julian Huxley, all touching on the biological basis of human society, followed by Konrad Lorenz, Desmond Morris and Robert Ardrey in the 1960s, and Richard Dawkins and David Barash in the 1970s.
This would be an ESS if any one cowardly frog that does not fight to the death always fares worse (in terms of evolutionary survival fitness).
A glass of water at 20 degrees Celsius will have the same amount of energy as a glass divided in half with the top fluid at 30 degrees and the bottom at 10, but only in the second glass will the top half have the capacity to do work upon the bottom.
Now, Treatise Online publishes sections of upcoming Treatise volumes as individual articles when they are ready, rather than waiting for an entire volume to be completed.
Further, he charged that prevailing theories did not mesh with Native American oral traditions, which he contended contain no accounts of inter-continental migration.
It went through three editions (1933, 1945, 1966) and for many years constituted a very authoritative work and the definitive coverage of the subject.
He touches upon his personal life, reflecting on his father, the chemist Sune Bergström, with whom he had a relatively distant relationship, and on his own marriage and son.
In addition, the boundary prevents the first reaction from completely consuming all of the available substrate in the environment.
He introduces sexual selection, “selective breeding by females of males.” This leads to natural selection, in which “nature is the selecting agent.” "Silence and slow time" examines the age of the Earth and geologic time.
See also Charles Darwin Evolutionary psychology Sociobiology The Territorial Imperative, 1966 book by Robert Ardrey The Moral Animal, 1994 book by Robert Wright Notes and references Notes References External links The Naked Ape 1973 at IMDb , and review
It has been cited over 200 times and has a major influence on extended evolutionary synthesis research.
His book was written whilst he was Secretary to the Zoological Society of London, and made use of his remarkable collection of reprints covering the first part of the century.
Two court cases in the 1980s related to evolution vs creationism codified scientific principle into law.
Yule stating that "Oceans of Kansas offers a well researched and often engaging account of the paleobiology of the Western Interior Seaway...".
The British paleontologist Darren Naish praised the artwork, particularly that the book included depictions of several dinosaurs only rarely (and in some cases never) illustrated prior, though he also found the illustrations to be "shrink-wrapped" (reconstructed with too little soft tissue).
Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History is a 1989 book on the evolution of Cambrian fauna by Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould.
Wesson argues that reductionism is inadequate and looks for chaos theory as an example of a different approach that is needed to explain evolution.
Levitin identifies six fundamental song functions or types (friendship, joy, comfort, religion, knowledge, and love) then shows how each in its own way has enabled the social bonding necessary for human culture and society to evolve.
The bottom line seemed to be - was there a meaning or intention behind how life changed?' Selected works Darwin: A Companion.
The hole itself is not a physical thing, but rather a source of constraint that helps to restrict the conformational possibilities of the wheel's components, such that, on a global scale, the property of rolling emerges.
Meaning and Purpose, written by Kenneth Walker, was first published in September 1944 by Jonathan Cape, London, and republished by Pelican Books in 1950.
Illustrated by Karen Lewis, the book explains Charles Darwin's theory of common descent with a target audience of 3–5-year-olds.
The collection of essays, written between 1973–1977, became a best-seller and propelled Gould to national prominence.
When selective constraint is reached at a locus negative selection becomes so small that it is effectively neutral.
Background Edward Payson Evans (1831–1917) was an American scholar with interests in literature, languages, and moral philosophy.
Allen Orr wrote in The New York Review of Books that "Wade's survey of human population genomics is lively and generally serviceable.
The mites believe Darwin to be a god, one of their creation myths handed down from generation to generation, and he has to set them straight about that and other mite fables.
Wilkes also praised the "striking" illustrations by Philip Hood, particularly that of the "vacuumorph", though noted that some of his artwork was somewhat anatomically questionable and that some aspects of the book's science and technology "raised questions too involved to introduce here".
Wrangham argues that humans have domesticated themselves by a process of self-selection similar to the selective breeding of foxes described by Dmitry Belyayev, a theory first proposed by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach in the early 1800s.
Darwinian Fairytales is a 1995 book by the philosopher David Stove, in which the author criticizes application of the theory of evolution as an explanation for sociobiological behavior such as altruism.
The major transitions generally involve the formation of new levels of units of selection, consisting of ensembles of pre-existing entities.
The Phenomenon of Man (French: Le phénomène humain) is an essay by the French geologist, paleontologist, philosopher, and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.
This chapter and its addendum contained most of the controversial material, and is still important today.
The cumulative process is directed by non-random survival." Dawkins illustrates the difference between the potential for the development of complexity as a result of pure randomness, as opposed to that of randomness coupled with cumulative selection.
Paulin stated that "Darwin's conception of the cruelty of nature to her sentient offspring is wholly mistaken." He argued that the struggle for existence emphasized by Darwin was immoral.
The Future is Wild, a 2002 miniseries, features future animals evolving over the course of several million years.
Another example is that the 2025 The New Dinosaurs has tyrannosaurs go completely extinct in the mid-Cenozoic, and presents the scavenging "gourmand" in South America as an abelisaur rather than a tyrannosaur.
Will leave you awestruck." The Times wrote "Levitin is such an enthusiastic anthropologist, such an exuberant song and dance man, such a natural-born associative thinker, that you gotta love the guy." It was named one of the best books of 2008 by the Boston Herald and by Seed Magazine.
The second is a convection system, where the low density fluid on the bottom mixes with the high density fluid on the top until the density becomes evenly distributed.
"One anticipates that Benton's Vertebrate Palaeontology will become the 'industry standard', and as such it should occupy space on the shelves of all involved in undergraduate teaching".
Rubin, Carl-Johan; Zody, MC; Eriksson, J; Meadows, JR; Sherwood, E; Webster, MT; Jiang, L; Ingman, M; et al.
Shapiro, among others, to have been poorly edited and contain errors such as misspellings of relevant names.
See also On the Origin of Species References External links Official website (in French) Darwin and the science of evolution at the Internet Archive Charles Darwin : the scholar who changed human history at the Internet Archive Darwin et la science de l'évolution at IMDb
In 2008, a group of scientists led by Anthony Herrel found that the lizards had evolved stronger jaws to adapt to a vegetarian diet, and have started to evolve a cecum.
Some of the issues discussed in the book are sexuality, telepathic communication between people, physical prowess or frailty, division of humans by caste or ability, and the preservation of ancient wisdom, among other things.
It should be pronounced to rhyme with ‘cream’.” Reception The Selfish Gene was extremely popular when published and it remains widely read.
Fisher's work also contributed to the development of many genetical studies, as his influence was great among scientists, making him a key figure in modern evolutionary biology.
Figure 8 of Osborn's paper, redrawn from the fossil, shows what was later proven to be an oviraptorid wishbone between the animal's arms, interpreted by Osborn as the interclavicle ("Ic." in Figure 8).
It posits that the Harappans were a mixture of Zagros agriculturists (from the modern-day Iran area) and First Indians, a wave of migrants who came from Africa into Arabia and then reached India around 65,000 years ago.
Summary The book is an expansion of the Jacob Bronowski Memorial Lecture in Natural Philosophy which Sagan gave at the University of Toronto.
Miller says that "Zimmer’s book is to be recommended for the broad scope that it gives to the influence of evolutionary ideas in modern biology.
He describes frozen plasticity as being more general, and maintains that it better explains the origin of adaptive traits in genetically heterogeneous populations of sexual reproducing organisms.
Chapters It contains the following chapters: Introduction Variation within a Species The Genetical Analysis of Interspecific Differences Natural Selection What is Fitness?
A co-production between La Sept-Arte and Trans Europe Film, with the collaboration of Éditions Gallimard and CNRS Images Média, the film was directed by Valérie Winckler, with voice-over narration by the French actor Claude Aufaure and the director.
Elaborating on the nature of selection, he writes that it only works on the basis of whether alleles are better or worse than others in the population, in terms of their immediate fitness effects.
Reception Criticism of the book has come from the biologist Michael Ghiselin: "Much of what he says is completely wrong.
First published in 1992 as The Creationists: The Evolution of Scientific Creationism, a revised and expanded edition was published under the current title in 2006.
Who Asked the First Question?: The Origins of Human Choral Singing, Intelligence, Language and Speech.
Sources Some sources for the book include The Song of the Dodo by David Quammen, The Ghost With Trembling Wings by Scott Weidensaul, and reports from Edward O.
He also suggests that the necessity for genetic compatibility between mitochondrial and nuclear DNA lies behind the differentiation of sex, ensuring that only one sexual partner contributes mitochondrial DNA to offspring.
Bennett (1983) reviewed the book in the European Journal of Operational Research as did Mart Gross (1984) in The Quarterly Review of Biology.
We often hear that when the Origin of Species was published there was a great outcry and an historic clash of science and religion.
Depending on how much CO2 is emitted, the Earth could very well be heading towards Eocene-temperature levels far faster than any underlying long term paleontology-cycle would suggest.
Here the Hawk-Dove model is introduced its assumptions reviewed and then an extended model, playing the field, is outlined.
Hand waving about the creative power of the organism makes a nice-sounding philosophical position but a poor scientific theory".
Boltzmann entropy Shannon's information based conception of entropy should be distinguished from the more classic thermodynamic conception of entropy developed by Ludwig Boltzmann and others at the end of the nineteenth century.
According to Ford, Fisher's work was occasionally misinterpreted by his peers, but his depth and range of thought won him lasting respect.
Johnson has since added an epilogue to the book titled "The Book and Its Critics", in the latest edition of Darwin On Trial.
An article by Fern Elsdon-Baker in New Scientist of 19 July 2009 entitled the "Dawkins Dogma" contains parts of the arguments put forward within the book.
Critical reception Tom Allen, in The Journal of the Civil War Era, wrote that Lincoln and Darwin "is not always completely convincing" with regard to the "shared vision" Lander identifies, but concluded that the book "is well worth reading.
The Folly of Fools: The Logic of Deceit and Self-Deception in Human Life (2011, Basic Books, ISBN 0465027555) by Robert Trivers is a book that examines the evolutionary explanations for deceit and self-deception.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
The book received generally positive reviews upon release and garnered the nickname "The Dinosaur Bible".
Buss attributes this to instinctual adaptations which he argues are universal across cultures and rooted in ancestral selection pressures.
In 1971, a population of Podarcis sicula from the island of Pod Kopiste was transported to the island of Pod Mrcaru.
The novel appears in the computer game Deus Ex as a reference when a corporation in the game allegedly tries to develop the Second Men in the series, but also in a much broader aspect as the game deals with genetic engineering, the next phase of evolution and human augmentations.
The authors focus on physical factors (structuralism) other than changes in an organism's genome that may have caused multicellular life to form new structures.
"dinosauroids") in The New Dinosaurs due to intelligence not having "[proven] itself as a feature that has any evolutionary advantage at all".
Imagining what they were like is hard—with our limited lifespan, deep time eludes us by its very nature.
The Journal of Mental Science found his mixture of science and theology untenable but praised Clair for his sincerity in accepting the evidence for evolution.
The Growth of Biological Thought: Diversity, Evolution, and Inheritance is a book written by Ernst Mayr, first published in 1982 by Belknap Press and is as much a book of philosophy and history as it is of biology.
It requires only that individuals of a species vary genetically in their ability to survive and reproduce in their environment.
The project began with work on a few, mostly slim volumes in which a single senior specialist in a distinct field of invertebrate paleozoology would summarize one particular group.
OneZoom, an interactive fractal explorer of the tree of life, used to make the visualizations in The Ancestor's Tale.
One of the principal themes of the book is the continual evolution of humans, especially since their migration out of Africa around 50,000 years ago.
Donald Symons also finds it inappropriate to use anthropomorphism in conveying scientific meaning in general, and particularly in this instance.
Darwin emphasises the social value of expression, especially the emotional communication between mother and child.
They present evidence that most dominant human civilizations have always been likewise behaviorally patriarchal, and that male humans share male chimpanzees' innate propensity for dominance, gratuitous violence, war, rape, and murder.
He concentrated on mathematics while attending Cambridge, but eventually discovered that biology and statistics sparked his interest.
The book's title refers to the argument made by the authors that evolution by natural selection, rather than only acting on DNA sequence variation, acts on four different systems or "dimensions": genetic, epigenetic, behavioral, and symbolic.
Contents The books argues that different species of living things are exactly the same today as they were hundreds of millions of years ago, that having been created by God, life forms on Earth have never undergone even the slightest change/evolution.
The Atlas of Creation (or, in Turkish, Yaratılış Atlası) is a series of creationist books written by Adnan Oktar under the pen name Harun Yahya.
A biographical sketch of Darwin follows, covering his youth, his naturalistic studies on the voyage of the Beagle and subsequent life, focusing on his scientific researches and writings.
Similarly, Amerindians, Aboriginals, and Polynesians, for example, had experienced very little infectious disease.
Edited and with appendix and notes by his granddaughter Nora Barlow, London: Collins, retrieved November 5, 2019 Darwin, Charles (2006), "Journal", in van Wyhe, John (ed.), [Darwin's personal 'Journal' (1809-1881)], Darwin Online, CUL-DAR158.1-76, retrieved 2008-12-20 External links Barlow, Nora ed.
This they argue demonstrates the substantial influence that he has had on the field (Traulsen and Glynatsi, 2023, page 2.
Part biography, part history of science and social documentary, this book takes readers on Darwin's journey of discovery.
Darwin wrote the text, which he entitled Recollections of the Development of my Mind and Character, for his family.
The work was quickly translated into several languages: German (1909), Estonian, English (1912), Ukrainian (1920), and Chinese (1922).
It is considered to have bound together a wide array of ideas in a way that advanced the understanding of professionals in several fields.
Freeman: Bibliography with links to text and images of all editions of The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication, including translations into French, German, Italian, and Polish.
Evans critiques the traditional anthropocentric worldview that places humans inherently above all other forms of life, arguing that this perspective is both scientifically outdated and morally inadequate.
Wagner and Chi-hua Chiu Epigenesis and Evolution of Brains: From Embryonic Divisions to Functional Systems, Georg F.
Dennett acknowledges this and admits he is offering a philosophical idea rather than a scientific formulation.
During the course of his research Ottaviani found the then-unpublished autobiography of Charles Knight.
Overview The book includes additional reading aids: An illustration of the evolutionary tree of life.
The book, which is written in the style of Alfred Sherwood Romer's Vertebrate Paleontology, presented more recent overall coverage of the subject.
Whitcomb, Jr.'s publication of The Genesis Flood (1961) and the forming of the Creation Research Society, which created the creation science movement.
Chapters eight and nine cover agency, while chapters ten and eleven cover efficacy, and twelve covers scope.
Whitcomb had earlier studied geology and paleontology at Princeton University, but by the 1950s, he was teaching the Bible at Grace Theological Seminary.
After the Postscript are 11 Appendices dealing with some more technical background and illustrative material.
ergaster, Homo erectus and Homo heidelbergensis, migrated out of Africa and to Asia (around 1 to 1.66 million years ago) and Europe (around 500,000 years ago), respectively.
The entry of each dinosaur species includes information on its size, age, distribution and anatomical characteristics.
It contains a selection of 87 letters from the correspondence of Charles Darwin, an autobiographical chapter written by Charles Darwin for his family, and an essay by Thomas Huxley "On the reception of the 'Origin of Species'".
While the dinosaur-bird connection (or lack thereof) was being pursued in paleontology, the problem of the evolution of flight was under scrutiny as well.
Gould describes the recapitulationists in the 19th century, from the German Lorenz Oken and Johann Friedrich Meckel to the French Étienne Serres.
In fact, few of us go back to the original, instead taking for granted what other people say he said.
Research For the Darwin bicentenary year of 2009, van Wyhe published four books on Darwin: Darwin's Shorter Publications; Darwin's Notebooks from the Voyage of the Beagle; Darwin in Cambridge; and an accessible biography: Darwin.
There is an internet version of the test called the Moral Sense Test which is aimed at a worldwide public.
Starting from the premise that society can, on a simplistic level, be represented as a variant of the prisoner's dilemma, Ridley examines how it has been possible for a society to arise in which people choose to cooperate with others, rather than "defect" and act purely in their own self-interest.
The Globe and Mail said of the book, "Here's an elegantly illustrated directory of ancient animals, from a tiny marine creature of Canada called a pkaia through a dim-witted, 21-metre dinosaur named after the Alamo, to mankind's departed brethren, the Cro-Magnon." == References ==
He accepted a Senior Research Fellowship at the National University of Singapore in 2002 where he both founded the Darwin Online project and edited the Science section of the Victorian Web.
Citing recent DNA evidence, the book traces the subsequent large migrations of anatomically modern humans into India—of agriculturalists from Iran between 7000 and 3000 BCE and Indo-European-speaking pastoralists from the Central Asian Steppe (Aryans) between 2000 and 1000 BCE, among others.
It does not goes much in-depth about the evolution of melanism in other species as the title might suggest.
Haldane and Sewall Wright expanded on Fisher's framework to describe gene frequencies, genetic drift and mutation.
It is considered one of three scholarly biographies of Darwin, along with Charles Darwin: The Man and His Influence (1996) by Peter J.
The Theory of Evolution is a book by English evolutionary biologist and geneticist John Maynard Smith, originally published in 1958 in time for 150th anniversary of the birth of Charles Darwin and the centenary of the publication of The Origin of Species the following year.
He presents here several figures and illustrations of the cleavage of the blastoderm in reptiles and birds.
In 2006, an independent film was made, based loosely on the book, written and directed by Daniel Mellitz, starring Josh Wise, Chelse Swain, Sean Shanks, Amanda MacDonald, Tony LaThanh, Corbin Bernsen.
She also describes specific species extinguished by humans, as well as the ecologies surrounding prehistoric and near-present extinction events.
Ridley examines the history of different attempts to explain the fact that humans in society do not defect, looking at various computer generated models that have been used to explain how such behaviour could arise.
This edition was published in London by Collins under the title of The Autobiography of Charles Darwin 1809-1882.
Description Through a series of short fictional stories and discussion following them, Baker proposes evolutionary functions for sexual habits, mostly on the principle of competition between sperm of different men for a prized egg.
Thus, "The Galápagos Finch's Tale" is about natural selection, "The Peacock's Tale" is about sexual selection, "The Salamander's Tale" is about speciation, and "The Barnacle's Tale" is about how appearances can be deceiving.
Scott further states that Johnson lacks familiarity with the specifics and nuances of the field necessary to match the critiques of Darwinism offered by evolutionary biologists, and instead parrots the criticisms made by suspect sources (scientific creationists).
There is also criticism about the emphasis on cladistic relationships described, while sections are organized following Linnaean taxonomy that can conflict or misrepresent cladistic groups.
Resonance example: A good example of morphodynamic work is the induced resonance that can be observed by singing or playing a flute next to a string instrument like a harp or guitar.
Proactive aggression, by contrast, is so highly developed in humans that we must put elaborate security measures in place to prevent others from carrying out plans to bring the plane down.
Johnson said in an interview in California Monthly that he fully expected to be labeled a "kook" by the academy, but he was "pleasantly surprised" by its reception at Berkeley.
Eugenie Scott has pointed out that the book repeats many arguments by creationists that were previously discredited.
The book provides an overview of the historical and philosophical debates that have continued throughout the history of evolutionary theory, and carry on to this day in debates surrounding the merits of gene-centric selection and group selection models.
A companion book, Walking with Cavemen: Stand Eye-to-Eye with your Ancestors, was also released in 2003 and received positive reviews.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
For example, a typewritten page can bear as many different messages as there are different combinations of characters that can be arranged on the page.
Alan Kazlev wrote, "This is a very good non-technical introduction to prehistoric vertebrates" and "it is the sheer number and diversity of creatures covered here, that makes this book so interesting".
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
Awards New York Times 10 Best Books of the Year: Winner, 2017 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction: Finalist, 2018 == References ==
See also The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves References External links Matt Ridley on Sex and Evolution at PBS
Pannekoek, who was also a prominent astronomer, sought to apply the Marxist approach to the analysis of the natural sciences.
Contents After opening with the declaration that "the Bible is the infallible Word of God", Whitcomb's section provides biblical arguments for a universal flood as well as attempting to refute non-geological difficulties with the biblical account.
Reception Contemporaneous Reviewing the book for American Scientist in 1943, the geologist Kirtley Mather wrote that the book provided "an admirable digest" of decades of work by many scientists.
The Eve in the title refers to Mitochondrial Eve, a name used for the most recent common ancestor of all humans in the matrilineal (mother to daughter) line of descent.
References External links Science, Evolution, and Creationism full text online from the National Academies Press
It topped The Sunday Times' Bestseller list, with more than twice the sales of its nearest competitor.
Laden concludes that "A Troublesome Inheritance is itself troubling, not for its politics but for its science.
Description of the book The book explores the multiple factors that may have been responsible for the origination of biological form in multicellular life.
The book contains a very useful summary of Majerus' work on melanism in ladybirds and a review of the peppered moth story, including observations on moth behavior which sparked controversy.
But the extraordinary complexity and difficulty of exact measurement may mean that that is never the case.
But, as with all successful encyclopedic renderings, its value resides in its detailed, beautifully illustrated, and lucidly organized descriptions.
The People's Press endorsed the book and published statements of support from Henry Demarest Lloyd, Robert G.
John Horgan in the New York Times was mostly positive in his evaluation of the ideas and evidence that Trivers put forward but said of Trivers' writing style: Trivers is not an elegant stylist like Dawkins, Wilson or Pinker.
Reception David Dobbs indicates that Prum's view is controversial but that he makes his case with clarity, grace, and charm, namely that aesthetic courtship gives females sexual choice, autonomy and safety.
References External links Google Books - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs Macmillan Publishers - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs
However, the pseudo-scientific method he uses in his work The Atlas of Creation cannot in any way be considered scientific.
Darwin and the Beagle gives a brief history of Darwin and his predecessors, like the geologists James Hutton and Charles Lyell.
Vincent's University Hospital reviewed the book favorably as well, describing it as "engagingly well-written" and praising the cartoon illustrations.
The Simon & Schuster Encyclopedia of Dinosaurs and Prehistoric Creatures: A Visual Who's Who of Prehistoric Life is an encyclopedia that was published in 1999 by Simon & Schuster.
It was highly important in asserting his dominance of comparative anatomy, and in the long run more influential in establishing evolution amongst biologists than was the debate with Samuel Wilberforce.
Despite all this, the oceanic wildlife remains untethered by most of these impacts, specifically the commercial farmed fish.
The book is a detailed study of the history of Indian paleoanthropology and of the fossil record of prehistoric people of the Indian Subcontinent.
Essentially, Singer claims that although humans possess selfish, competitive tendencies naturally, they have a substantial capacity for cooperation that has also been selected for during human evolution.
The Universal Kinship was one of several works by Moore, including Why I Am a Vegetarian (1895), Better-World Philosophy (1899) and The New Ethics (1907).
The human eye is built upside down and backwards, so that light has to travel through blood vessels and various cells before reaching the light receptors.
Supposing, for instance, that in a population of frogs, males fight to the death over breeding ponds.
Overview The first and second editions (1955 and 1969) provide an overview of the entire range of vertebrate evolution, and are illustrated by the distinctive drawings of Lois Darling.
In the first example, Gould explains that the decline of the top batting average does not imply that there has been a decline in the skill of baseball players.
She began it with a fable of a "small community of modest scholars called natural historians" who all practised their own sciences, until one day a man who "had been called Entomologist, Ecologist, and even Biochemist" arose among them and pronounced "there shall be a new science".
Contents The book opens with an introduction by the authors reflecting on the making of the TV series.
that circumnutation (the process that creates the circular or elliptical movement of the stem and tips of plants) was central in the development of multitudes of adaptations to the environment and thus resulting in an immense variety of plants.
Conditioning by reinforcement, occurs when an event following a response causes an increase in the probability of that response occurring in the future.
Neanderthals, Bandits and Farmers: How Agriculture Really Began is a book on prehistoric agriculture and anthropology by the British science writer Colin Tudge.
By biologists The theoretical biologist Mary Jane West-Eberhard reviewed the book in detail for The Quarterly Review of Biology as a work "of special significance".
The case was brought to the European Court by several members of the Estamirov family together with the British solicitor Gareth Peirce and the organization Russian Justice Initiative.
The pilot headed away from the attack but took care that he was not over the sea before ordering the crew to bale out.
Situated in a plaza, this modest memorial pays tribute to the victims who were held at this facility.
Between 31 May and 8 June 1978, the Argentine government kidnapped a score of RL militants, the most important being Rafael Tello, Pablo Tello, Elsa Martínez, Hernán Ramírez Achinelli, "Melena" Edison Oscar Cantero Freire and "el Pata" Fernando Díaz Cárdenas.
On November 20, 2005, roughly 20,000 protesters attended the vigil, "remembering those who have been silenced by SOA violence".
Further, he believed the training served to "increase respect for United States foreign policy goals and the United States concept of military-civilian relationships at the national level".
On 7 May he was killed along with Olim Zarobekov at the government-run Radio House in Dushanbe, according to the Union of Journalists of Tajikistan.
It was recently applied by the Chilean Supreme Court in December 2007." While Pinochet was detained under house arrest on October 30, 2006, over "charges including murder, torture, and kidnapping in the years following his 1973 coup, he was never formally convicted.
Origins Warsaw was considered by the Germans to be the centre of Polish resistance against the Nazi "New Order".
Russia was a European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of the February 5, 2000, Novye Aldi massacre in Chechnya, which unanimously held Russia responsible for violations of Articles 2 (right to life) and 13 (right to effective remedy) of the European Convention of Human Rights.
A special commando team from Argentina worked in conjunction with Somoza's OSN (Office of National Security) and its Argentine advisors with the objective of capturing exiled squadrons from the ERP and the Montoneros.
Although he was already older, he joined the group and performed in the institute's orchestra, where he played the violin and prepared talks for various ceremonies.
Early life Al-Gashey was a former student of nursing in University of Tripoli, Libya and had won a scholarship to study chemistry at the American University of Beirut.
Prisoner of war Flying operationally with No.72 Squadron, Birkland was pilot of Spitfire Mark Vb serial W3367 on the afternoon of 7 November 1941 on a Rodeo mission over the coast of occupied Europe.
He was last seen on 14 April 1944 in the Danzig area and was probably seized by the Gestapo, disappearing in captivity.
It appeared that the suspects were on a reconnaissance-mission and had parked their car to save a space for the actual car containing the explosives.
According to the police, Fahim was killed while in custody after a group of militants opened fire on them.
Later in 1811, Rodríguez was elected parliamentary representative for Talca on 4 September, appointed Secretary of War on 15 November and conscripted into the army on 2 December with the rank of captain.
In the 20 July plot, once the Nazis had been routed, Koch was slated to become the presiding judge of the Reichsgericht, the highest court in the German Reich.
While the term "jungle justice" is used across West and Central Africa to describe mob-led extrajudicial punishment, it is commonly studied and documented in Nigeria and Cameroon.
He is notable for the part he took in the 'Great Escape' from Stalag Luft III in March 1944 and as one of the men recaptured and subsequently shot by the Gestapo.
At Stalag Luft I Bull met Roger Bushell during various tunnelling escape attempts, Bushell later masterminded the Great Escape.
The Murder of Fred Hampton at IMDb (A 1971 documentary film directed by Howard Alk) FBI files on Fred Hampton From COINTELPRO to the Shadow Government: As Fred Hampton Jr.
In January 2016, actor Steven Schub played the part of Avraham 'Yair' Stern in the world premiere of historian Zev Golan's play The Ghosts of Mizrachi Bet Street, based on the life of Avraham Stern directed by Leah Stoller and S.
Military jurisdiction Prisoners of war Major treaties such as the Geneva Conventions and Hague Conventions, and customary international law protect the rights of captured regular or irregular enemy soldiers and civilians.
The two surviving soldiers were summarily executed by FMLN forces in one of the most infamous incidents during El Salvador's civil war.
Willy Williams and Rusty Kierath headed off and later joined up with Johnny Bull and Jerzy Mondschein to trek through the Reisengebirge mountains where they were arrested by a mountain patrol trying to cross into occupied Czechoslovakia and taken to Reichenberg prison.
On 19 November 1941 he became a pilot for the 1st Photographic Reconnaissance Unit (PRU) flying out of RAF Benson South Oxfordshire, England.
During the National Reorganization Process, prisoners were shot during "transfers", to later claim that the transport had been attacked and that they had died in the ensuing confrontation.
Impact The killings of seven journalists within the span of a year has spurred some media outlets to stop reporting on government actions and has caused others to go so far as to stop reporting entirely.
In the past, summary execution of pirates, spies, and francs-tireurs have been performed and considered legal under existing international law.
He was amongst the early groups of arrivals in late spring 1942 and he immediately began preparing to escape.
Stationed in French Indochina in 1945, he was beheaded by the Japanese during their March coup d'état.
38 Squadron RAF In August 1941 Cross succeeded in his aim to return to operational flying and was posted to No.
Over the target area they received two serious hits by anti-aircraft fire and began to limp homewards but had to ditch in the English Channel.
See also Anarchism in Argentina María Esther Biscayart de Tello, mother of Rafael and Pablo Tello References Bibliography Diz, Verónica; Trujillo, Fernando López (2007).
Erwin von Lahousen and Hans Bernd Gisevius, two of Canaris's main subordinates, survived the war and testified during the Nuremberg trials about Canaris's courage in opposing Hitler.
Power was killed almost a year later in September when the party he was with, led by Colonel Stewart, were attempting to break through a blockade.
Lemonnier was subsequently taken prisoner himself and ordered by a Japanese general to sign a document formally surrendering the forces under his command.
Because giving this assistance would expose the husband to liability, the Director of Public Prosecutions was asked to agree not to prosecute her husband.
His brother Captain Greg Kierath was serving with an Australian Anti-Tank company and was killed at Tobruk on 14 April 1941 on about the date when Kierath gained his pilot's aircrew brevet.
However, the convictions which were given to six former DINA members and two former prominent army officers in August 2023 would be described as the "final conviction" the Supreme Court of Chile would hand down for the Soria assassination.
At some point Staverman and Pattiwal separated from the others to undertake further exploration of the countryside, and were ambushed by a group of natives.
This led radicalized youth that would then form the Montoneros to embrace more radical beliefs of Camilo Torres and García Elorrio instead, with Torres arguing that "The duty of every Catholic is to be a revolutionary" and that "The Catholic who is not a revolutionary is living in mortal sin".
Five German POWs, whose uniforms were found to still have blood on them, were court-martialed for Kunze's murder.
Many Christians took shelter in the local French school; Osman's brigands abducted and raped the women and girls, killed the men and boys, and later burned the school.
Literally only needing to cross the river to Basel in neutral Switzerland he was hand-cuffed and taken to a local police station.
The fate of Paul Maitla was uncertain for number of decades, until some information was discovered in 2005 in the city archives of the Czech town of Nymburk.
On 30 September 2014 the Court denied the request to apply an interim measure against but requested the State of Azerbaijan to provide explanations and reasons for the delay.
Early life Stern was born in Suwałki, present-day Poland (then the part of Poland that was under Russian Partition).
Memorial In 2016, several former inmates in associations such as the Colectivo de Mujeres Sobrevivientes Siempre Resistentes ("Collective of surviving women always resisting") and the Sobrevivientes de Venda Sexy ("Survivors of Venda Sexy") asked the former facility to be made a national monument.
Painful Easter The repression continued and in the next days the police would imprison hundreds of agrarian workers.
A group of Jews and Belarusians, members and sympathizers of the delegalized Communist Party, all citizens of Poland, took control of the town of Skidel and some nearby locations, acquired firearms, often from skirmishes with Polish Army units and police.
Resistencia Libertaria (initially known as the Resistencia Anticapitalista Libertaria) was an Argentine anarchist urban guerrilla group that emerged in 1974 via a network of workers and university militants from La Plata and Córdoba.
Azerbaijan on 4 November 2021, pronouncing the State of Azerbaijani guilty of the breach of articles 2 and 3 (violations of the right to life and the prohibition of torture, incomplete investigation and delayed return of the body.
Originally his remains were buried at Sagan, but he is now buried in part of the Poznań Old Garrison Cemetery beside his fellow escapers.
Early life Gerald MacIntosh Johnston was born on October 1, 1904, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada to James Macintosh Johnston and Clare Maud Mckay Johnston.
Even though he escaped the disastrous Battle of Edgcote, he was lynched by a mob at Bridgwater on 17 August 1469.
He began his primary studies in his hometown, and later continued them at the Colegio San José in Buenos Aires, run by Bayonne parents, where prominent figures from the Argentine political and business scene also studied, including former President Hipólito Yrigoyen.
Arriving at the general Cemetery along the Avenida de la Paz, the funeral became an impressive popular protest, the first since September 11 ...
Career Joining the United States Foreign Service in 1955, White served in a variety of positions at the State Department and in US delegations, primarily in Latin America.
On the morning of 29 March 1944 Jim Wernham and Nick Skantzikas were removed from the cell and then during the afternoon Doug Poynter and Pop Green.
forces prepared to depart from the staging area, a helicopter collided with a transport plane, causing a fire that killed eight servicemen.
Pinochet was at the centre of this illegal arms trade, receiving money through various offshore and front companies, including Banco Coutts International in Miami.
The brigade was also involved, with the assistance of false TTG paperwork, in the acquisition of large quantities of small arms and other martial equipment for use by the Haganah in Palestine.
Nearing the border suspicious policemen insisted on carefully examining their papers, checking their briefcases which contained newspapers and escape rations.
Richardson School of Law Library at the University of Hawaiʻi places the number of the victims of enforced disappearances under the rule of Ferdinand Marcos at 783.
Known as Guatón Romo ("Fatso Romo") or Comandante Raúl, he was one of DINA's key torturers, operating in centers such as Villa Grimaldi.
On 25 November 1975, General Augusto Pinochet's 60th birthday, leaders of the military intelligence services of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay met with Manuel Contreras, chief of DINA (the Chilean secret police), in Santiago de Chile, officially creating the Plan Condor.
On July 18 Requejo was with his wife and son in Madridejos, reportedly preparing to travel to Puebla de Sanabria to commence summer holidays.
War service On 19 April 1940 Long commenced his service with the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve with service number 922353 and by 24 December 1940 had been promoted to Leading Aircraftman and awarded his pilot brevet (wings).
For example, Al-Jazeera's bureau chief in Islamabad, Ahmad Zaidan, was wrongly identified as the most probable member of al-Qaeda and the Muslim Brotherhood on their records.
49 Squadron RAF at Scampton flying Handley Page Hampdens but was severely wounded on 16 October 1940 by anti-aircraft fire over Bordeaux harbour flying Hampden L4129 on a mine laying mission.
He took control of the camp then toured the camp with a group of reporters (including war correspondent Marguerite Higgins).
The coalition HQ let the Jordanian Air Forces perform most of the air strike sorties planned for that day.
On 3 June 1996, the French criminal court found the doctor innocent as the foetus was not considered viable, and thus was not a "human person" under the French Criminal Code (then Article 319, now Articles 221—226).
He enlisted in the Polish Army before 1930 later transferring to the Polish Air Force and rising through the ranks to become a commissioned officer.
Oleksandr Kovalenko – editor-in-chief of the newspaper Social Politics (Kyiv), on 8 February was found shot dead in a forest near Zhytomyr.
As of 10 March, Oleksandr Ihorovych Matsievskyi (Ukrainian: Олександр Ігорович Мацієвський), a 42-year-old Ukrainian soldier deployed to Bakhmut in November 2022 and who also disappeared, remained a credible alternative due to contextual and visual similarities.
Casey was a member of the group of "bad lads" with Bushell who were sent to the reputedly escape proof Stalag Luft III in the province of Lower Silesia near the town of Sagan (now Żagań in Poland).
Honours Wisła Kraków Ekstraklasa: 1927, 1928 Polish Cup: 1925–26 References External links Władysław Kowalski at 90minut.pl (in Polish)
References External links Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Center for International Policy Appearances on C-SPAN
Later the Armenian authorities started investigating the possibility of his kidnapping from the Armenian territory by the Azerbaijani forces.
He was taken prisoner by the Yugoslav Partisans and shot on 5 June 1945 in Ljubljana, together with generals Gustav Fehn (XV Mountain Corps), Werner von Erdmannsdorff (LXXXXI Corps) and Heinz Kattner (Feldkommandant of Sarajevo).
From then on, the Marines returned every Saturday, forcing male villagers to take them to the women, after which the Marines would take them into the nearby hills and rape them.
Biography Mohsen Hojaji was an officer in the IRGC operating in Syria as part of an advisory team to the Syrian government forces during the Syrian Civil War.
At some point – definitely after 21 June 1450 – he married Isabel, daughter of Sir John Barre of Herefordshire.
Background On September 11, 2010 a 20-years-old resident of the Armenian village of Ttujur bordering with Azerbaijan, Manvel Saribekyan, was captured by the Azerbaijani military near the Azerbaijani village of Zamanli.
He was posthumously mentioned in despatches in June 1944, recognizing his conspicuous bravery as a prisoner because none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously.
During the Second Chechen War, he did not take an active part in hostilities and instead sought a negotiated end to the war on behalf of Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov.
Obama defended the use of drones as just because America "is at war with al Qaeda, the Taliban and their associated forces".
After his medical internship, Rascher worked with his now divorced father in Basel, Switzerland, and continued his medical studies there, joining the Swiss Voluntary Work Forces.
intelligence would provide the Argentine government with intelligence and logistics support for an arms interdiction program to stem the flow of military supplies to the FMLN from Cuba and Nicaragua.
In particular, the Telegram channel of the neo-Nazi Rusich Group posted a message saying: "You will be surprised how many of these videos will gradually pop up", accompanying the message with a smiley emoji.
On 23 October 1942, Koenen parachuted behind German lines at Osterode in East Prussia and made his way to Berlin to his contact, Ilse Stöbe.
After recovering, Wicker completed courses for SS leadership applicants at the SS-Junker Schools in Bad Tölz from August to November 1943.
On 19 August 1915, U-24 sank the White Star Liner SS Arabic with the loss of 44 lives – this included three Americans and resulted in a diplomatic incident between Germany and the United States.
A woman who identified herself as the soldier's sister said that her brother could "definitely stand up to the Russians like that" and that "he never hid the truth in his life, and he definitely wouldn't hide it in front of the enemy".
Herbig, Munich 2003, ISBN 3-7766-2317-9, p.242 ff Ulrich Sahm: Ilse Stöbe Die Rote Kapelle im Widerstand gegen den Nationalsozialismus.
Anunciação was set free and then dragged from his bed at night by a mob of forty people who beat him to death with bricks and clubs.
Killings by both official and unofficial security forces would climax in the late 1970s and early 1980s under the presidencies of Fernando Romeo Lucas García and Efraín Ríos Montt, with over 18,000 documented killings in 1982 alone.
But on May 30, 1944, Adams P-51B was attacked and shot down by 4 Bf-109s near Celle Air Base: he parachuted out of his aircraft and landed on the ground.
A nationwide, self-imposed media blackout also took place after the killing of Peter Moi that lasted from 8/21/15 through 11AM on 8/22/15.
The original band of ten resisters who marched onto Fort Benning and splashed blood upon the School of Americas to commemorate the first anniversary of the UCA massacre has grown in recent years to a community of 10,000.
Killing of counter admiral Quijada A few days before the inauguration of elected president Héctor Cámpora, the ERP-22 decided to launch a new action: the "Operation Mercury", whose objective was to kill Counter-admiral Hermes Quijada.
The Task Force will eventually give way to a permanent parliamentary Human Rights Commission, which will have the capacity to investigate allegations over a longer period.
On completion of basic initial training at Somers and Narrandera Catanach was posted to Canada where he learned to fly and received his pilot's wings in June 1941 being commissioned pilot officer.
However, President Jimmy Carter, who took office in January 1977, highlighted issues of human rights in Latin America, including in Argentina.
After Saribekyan's body was repatriated to Armenia on November 4, 2010 the Press Service of the Prosecutor General of Armenia informed that the forensic examination had revealed signs of torture on the body and opened a criminal investigation.
St Paul's Cathedral A ceremony was held 10 June 1888 at St Paul's Cathedral to commemorate the journalists killed during the 3 years of campaigns in Sudan and the dedication of a brass tablet, designed by Herbert Johnson listing seven journalists.
Examples United States March 20 to April 15, 1882: Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday tracked and killed 4 cowboys said to be responsible for Morgan Earp's death, which would later become known as the Earp Vendetta Ride.
In the General elections of 1965 he was an independent candidate for Diyarbakir but was not elected.
During his high school studies, the Dersim rebellion led by Seyid Riza was going on, which lead to some frictions with his Turkish classmates following which he was shortly detained.
The next day, the communist People's Guard carried out an attack on the Bar Podlaski restaurant at 15 Nowogrodzka Street, corner of Krucza Street (a place designated Nur für Deutsche and intended for SS and police officers).
The first applicant, Mulkiye Osman, was the widow of Ali Osman, who was shot dead by Paul Paget-Lewis on 7 March 1988.
A Shalinsky District's prosecutor's office said it opened a case for kidnapping, but "the steps taken to identify the individuals responsible for this crime have been unsuccessful" and the investigation was suspended on 12 December 2000.
This is a list of journalists killed in India See also List of journalists killed in Bangladesh Attacks on RTI activists in India References External links CPJ
In September, the two informed local police, who did not report the killings to higher authorities and left the remains in their place for several months to ensure that the male villager remained anonymous.
Valech Report is the report from the second truth commission in Chile, considered to have continued Rettig's work.
His aircraft was shot down by anti-aircraft fire and the crew had to bale out, all six being taken prisoner.
Makaratzis v Greece pushes these obligations further, so that the state must have mechanisms to deter offences against people.
See also Death threat Notes References CA Gearty, 'Unravelling Osman' (2001) 64(2) Modern Law Review 159 External links ECHR judgment
Politically he evolved from centre-left to extreme right: initially Requejo supported the Romanonista dynastic Liberalism, then he turned towards accidentalist Acción Católica, and finally he joined Carlism.
Hopp and other alleged accomplices in Schäfer's crimes who were charged and awaiting trial took refuge in Ewald Frank's church in Germany, where they were protected from extradition.
After that, the video of torture and mutilation of a woman captured by Azerbaijani soldiers was first released on Telegram and after a while it was found that the woman is the Armenian soldier Anush Apetyan.
His death highlights the imperative need to improve the security of media professionals in all circumstances.
The same year he also won a notable tournament in Munich (+4 –0 =1) ahead of Rudolf Spielmann and Efim Bogoljubov.
Unlike his later more sophisticated escapes Grimson simply kicked his German guard in the backside and ran, but he was quickly recaptured.
Pre-war life Gouws was born in Bultfontein, South Africa the eldest son of an Afrikaans speaking farming family of Boer tradition.
Originally cremated and buried at Sagan, he is now buried in part of the Poznan Old Garrison Cemetery.
Following his training, he was shipped overseas where he served as a Halifax tail gunner with 405 Squadron RCAF.
Frank La Rue, the UNESCO assistant director-general for communication and information said, “On average, one journalist is murdered every four days.” The journalists and media persons who were killed or murdered in 2017 References Rashid, Omar (13 February 2016).
Meanwhile, on 8 June, Sir John Fastolf finally left Paris with a reinforcing army of several thousand, headed for the Loire River valley.
By January 1936 he was a leading aircraftman posted to Basra in Iraqas an engine fitter but in November 1936 he was appointed driver with the British Embassy in Baghdad.
113 (1973) Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 Sheila Hodgers Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland Abortion in the Republic of Ireland Death of Savita Halappanavar Attorney General v.
Prisoner of war On the evening of 13–14 October 1942, Kidder took off in a Wellington Mark III bomber (serial number BJ775) from RAF Warboys to bomb targets in the German port town of Kiel.
The order required guards to shoot prisoners who engaged in resistance or escape attempts, without warning; failing to do so would result in dismissal or arrest.
After the October Revolution, Kirpichnikov planned to join the newly formed Russian White Army fighting against Bolsheviks.
Death In February 1977, Oryema, together with Archbishop Janani Luwum and Interior Minister Charles Oboth Ofumbi were arrested for an alleged coup attempt and died shortly after.
2007-2010 trial In May 2007, Chilean judge Víctor Montiglio indicted 74 former DINA agents, most of whom were previously unknown to the public, as part of the largest investigation into the operations of this secret police force.
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt during the Great Depression, was well received and became known as Plan Chardón.
Post-war investigations saw a number of those guilty of the murders tracked down, arrested and tried for their crimes.
Afghanistan See also War in Afghanistan (2001–present) Human rights in Afghanistan References External links The Journalists Memorial
The permanent staff's duty was to help newly captured Allied aircrew to adjust to life as prisoners of war.
It abruptly resurfaced and only two crew escaped (a wounded Leutnant and the helmsman) from a hatch before it sank again.
In May 1933, the Munich prosecutor's office, not yet assimilated to Nazi policy in the Gleichschaltung process, began investigating the murder of several prisoners at Dachau, prompted by the formal complaint of Sophie Handschuh, who wanted to know the true cause of her son's death at the camp.
In the Court's view, the astonishing ineffectiveness of the prosecuting authorities in this case could only be qualified as acquiescence in the events.
In the documentary film One Day in September (2000), it is stated that Israeli Mossad assassination squads killed both him and Mohammad Safady.
Jamal Al-Gashey can be seen seated in the middle of the three, between his cousin Adnan (believed to be the guerilla who shot and killed five of the hostages who were tied up in one of the helicopters) and Mohammed Safady.
The military, however, intercepted the convoy at Masaje, close to Yandev in Gboko local government where Gana was killed.
On the other hand, the doctrine was defined by its creator, General Perón, as deeply national, humanist and Christian, respectful of the human person above all things.
All the top leaders of the paramilitaries in Miami were there." Carriles and Bosch were both present at the meeting in Bonao, at which CORU was formed, along with Gaspar Jiménez.
Further, the school leveraged instructors returning from service in Vietnam to "insure currency of the instruction".
The Glasgow Herald of 19 May 1944 published an early list naming several officers, including Casey Awards His conspicuous bravery as a prisoner was recognised by a mention in despatches as none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously.
Pre-war life McGarr was born in Johannesburg, South Africa and moved with his family to Durban, in 1923.
Execution On 8 December 1922, along with three other republicans Liam Mellows, Richard Barrett and Joe McKelvey captured with the fall of the Four Courts, Rory O'Connor was executed by firing squad in reprisal for the anti-treaty IRA's killing of Free State TD Seán Hales.
In March 2009, the magazine CartaCapital published previously unreleased documents of the National Information Service created by an undercover agent who was present at Goulart's properties in Uruguay.
They had a private exchange that made a strong impression on Charles; Jean Pasquerel, Joan's confessor, later testified that Joan told him she had reassured the Dauphin that he was Charles VI's son and the legitimate king.
He completed his F-16 training in the Royal Jordanian Air Force, and by 2012, had qualified as an operational F-16 pilot and was assigned to No.
Unable to receive a direct course of action from Carter, the mixed messages that the Shah received from Vance and Brzezinski contributed to his confusion and indecision as he fled Iran in January 1979 and his regime collapsed.
The guerrillas reduced the staff and came to Garcia, who slept next to his partner, singer and actress Marina Dorel, and reassured him, while a female militant wore the uniform of one of the maids in case of the arrival of some unforeseen guest.
Extrajudicial punishment is a punishment for an alleged crime or offense which is carried out without legal process or supervision by a court or tribunal through a legal proceeding.
According to The New York Times, his father's experiences in Nazi Germany made the elder Reich "immediately suspicious of [Fidel] Castro, prompting him to flee with his family to North Carolina in 1960, when Otto was 15." In 1966, Reich received a B.A.
Between 1962 and 1966, nearly 400 Paraguayan military personnel were trained by the United States in the Panama Canal Zone and on US soil.
Gisela Seewald, who admitted the use of electroshock therapy and sedatives that her boss had claimed were placebos.
Al-Qaeda operations after 9/11 After 9/11, Interpol issued a warrant for Ayman al-Zawahiri's arrest, over his involvement in the attacks.
Located in the Floresta neighborhood of Buenos Aires, it operated during the military dictatorship of 1976–1983.
After the shootout at Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base, he was captured along with his nephew Jamal Al-Gashey, and Mohammed Safady.
Canaris was arrested on 23 July 1944 on the basis of the interrogation of his successor at Military Intelligence, Georg Hansen.
Early life Terwase, literally meaning 'God help,' was born a native of Gbishe, Kpav District, Katsina-Ala local government area of Benue State.
An autopsy of Luluyeva showed that she died from a multiple strong blows to the head with a solid blunt object at least three months before the discovery of the corpse-dumping site.
The chapel was dedicated in 1940 and was large enough to accommodate the school's entire student body, which was then 1,200.
Two weeks later, he wrote a letter to Newton's mother in which he described her son's courage and expressed the hope that he might yet be found alive.
Mehmed Reshid was appointed as the new Vali of Diyarbekir and arrived with a small private death squad composed of Circassian volunteers.
This included the fictional group's requisition and use of civilian and military vehicles, gasoline, rations, medical supplies, and other such materiel.
This document, which John Dinges received in 1979, two years after its declassification, was cited in a book, written by Dinges and Saul Landau, about the assassination of Letelier.
Sweden Cats Falck, 1984 Turkey United Kingdom Ross McWhirter, 1975 Bulgarian dissident writer and BBC journalist Georgi Markov died on 11 September 1978 after having been poisoned with a Bulgarian umbrella.
Facts Diane Pretty was suffering from motor neurone disease and was paralysed from the neck down, had little decipherable speech and was fed by a tube.
Most prominent among the victims is Hrant Dink, killed in 2007, but the death of Metin Göktepe also raised great concern, since police officers beat him to death.
Portrayal in film Al-Gashey is portrayed by French Moroccan actor Karim Saidi in the 2005 film Munich.
During World War II, he developed contacts with the 20 July plot conspirators, including Hans von Dohnanyi and Hans Oster from the military-intelligence.
Where appropriate, the United States seeks assurances that transferred persons will not be tortured.
In 1980, Adolfo Pérez Esquivel, leader of the Peace and Justice Service, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for reporting many of Argentina's human rights violations to the world at large.
Stroessner also fired the interior minister Ynsfrán in 1966, but his replacement, Sabino Augusto Montanaro (a member of the "Cuatrinomio de Oro", a group of politicians intimately connected to Stroessner) continued the same violent policies.
Crossfire is a form of staged extrajudicial killings in Bangladesh, often used to refer to the death of a person by gunshot while under the custody of a law enforcement agency.
A local policeman, trying to stop them, got into a heated argument and was fired on before the APC drove away with the detainees.
Hampton and the Panthers also used Clements's parish, Holy Angels Catholic Church in Chicago (now the parish of Our Lady of Africa), as a refuge in times of particular surveillance or pursuit from the police.
Nura Luluyeva (Chechen: Нура Лулуева; 1960 – 2000) was a Chechen woman who was kidnapped and murdered by a Russian death squad in 2000.
Da Costa began making contact with some of the student"s leaders that were anxious to return to Paraguay to make the revolution through the means of violence due to the lack of political rights and the apathy of the traditional parties of the opposition.
After the dictatorship, President Tabaré Vázquez appointed Cores political secretary of the Broad Front.
Duff enlisted into Captain John Williams' Company in Cahokia and rose to the rank of sergeant in the Illinois Regiment.
Manhunt and amnesty First amnesty Gana lived in the jungle cohabiting with wild animals until Monday, 31 August 2015 when he first appeared in public to embrace the amnesty granted by Samuel Ortom, Governor of Benue State for criminals in the state.
During World War I, Kirpichnikov fought on the Austrian front, was wounded in the hand and after a hospital stay ended up in Petrograd.
The applicants' complaints were directed at the failure of the authorities to appreciate and act on what they claim was a series of clear warning signs that Paget-Lewis represented a serious threat to the physical safety of Ahmet Osman and his family.
Exiled as a critic of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, he was targeted for assassination by Operation Condor.
At 9 o´clock, part of the twelve combatants who would be involved in the operation gathered at the Carupá station.
Twenty-one prisoners were taken from the kiosk, placed against the wall, and shot without trial on the orders of the French Capitaine Marcel Dingeon, who was Abbeville's deputy commander.
This chapel was considered the most beautiful in the Philippines and had few rivals in the District, although the Brothers would regret about the chapel's limited size.
Some time later in 1940 there was a show trial in Skidel of 15 individuals including three women, two Tartars and two Polish Russians, who aided the Polish Army which briefly retook Skidel on 19 September.
On 20 July 1920, Canaris became admiral's staff officer at the Marinestation der Ostsee (Baltic Naval Station) command.
Prized for its colourful foliage, which provides both summer and winter interest, it is widely available commercially.
The 10–16 cm white flowers that emerge from early to late spring, while beautiful and thick with a citrus-lemon fragrance, are prone to browning if subjected to frost.
Sunthorn Phu, Thailand’s eminent bard of the Early Bangkok Era, mentioned the plant in many of his poems.
It has been introduced and naturalized in some parts of Europe, including the Czech Republic and former Yugoslavia.
Endemic to Brazil, it is an evergreen shrub that becomes semi-deciduous in cooler areas and grows up to 1.8 meters (6 feet) in height.
The tree produces a fleshy, light green toxic fruit; once the fruit splits, the seeds are consumed by birds and other wildlife.
It is propagated by dividing the roots or cutting off a top and placing it upside down in a glass of water.
External links Russian website with several images of the iris Photo album Archived 2016-10-22 at the Wayback Machine Media related to Iris camillae at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Iris camillae at Wikispecies
There is a prominent, dark brown gland below the lowest pinna and sometimes a gland at the base of the uppermost pinnae.
Description The Weeping Higan Cherry grows to a height 20 to 30 feet (6 to 9 m) with a spread of 15 to 25 feet (5 to 8 m).
Spiraea salicifolia, the bridewort, willow-leaved meadowsweet, spice hardhack, or Aaron's beard, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
Very moist fields will have increased rates of infection as the amount of moisture makes it easy for the zoospores to move through the soil and infect tubers.
This chorological shift may possibly be due to climatic change and the migration of mountain flora by way of river courses.
"Blue-green" mealybugs are a group of related mealybug genera whose insides, during adulthood, are usually of the color which gives them their collective name.
Cultivation When grown in a garden it may require light pruning right after blooming, but otherwise plants can be left alone in fall and early spring.
The leaves stay glossy green throughout the summer and into the fall when they turn a vivid yellow before leaving the tree bare in winter.
External links Encyclopædia Britannica Clemson Home & Garden Medline Plus: Dieffenbachia Botanical Online: Dieffenbachia Speedup Video – Dieffenbachia growth
In the middle of the falls, is a dense, row of short hairs called the 'beard', which is dark yellow, or bright yellow with purple red tips.
Description The plant has aromatic glossy, green, round leaves, which show a deep purple color in the center sometimes and tend to trail, reaching a height of between 10 and 30 cm and extends around 60 cm.
Juveniles take 5–7 years to flower and set seed, whereafter the populations are ready to burn again.
A feature of the whekī is the spreading underground rhizomes which can create dense groves, making it one of the most common tree ferns in New Zealand forests.
The flowers display in a sequence from the lowest point, those following are in a progression of development.
The species has long falcate (sickle-shaped) or ensiform (sword-shaped) leaves, a long thick stem and large fragrant flowers that come in shades of purple brown, reddish-black, black-brown, dark brown, dark lilac or dark purple.
Distribution The species is found in coastal areas of Spain, Italy, Croatia and Albania In Italy it is found on the coast of Tuscany and western Sicily and on the islands of Capri and Li Galli.
The deciduous, elegant and compact multi-stemmed small flowering tree or large shrub, slowly attaining a height of 20 ft (6.1 m) and somewhat wider at maturity, is hardy to USDA Zone 4.
They are added to spreads such as butter or fruit preserves, as well as to vinegar, marinades, and dressings.
'White Rose' was an open pollinated seedling of ‘Ballerina.' Magnolia × loebneri is susceptible to magnolia scale, just like other saucer, star, and lily magnolias.
Violet species occupy a diverse array of habitats, from bogs (Viola lanceolata) to dry hill prairies (V.
More than ten subpopulations have been observed, and the species' estimated extent of occurrence is 2,750 to 3,000 km2.
integrifolia, but differs in having longer, narrower leaves, and follicles that are more deeply embedded in the old flower spike.
Etymology The species was originally called Nasturtium indicum ("Indian nasturtium") but the plant is not related to the true Nasturtium genus.
The pruning preserves the flower-bearing shoots of the preceding year, while keeping the tree low enough to allow the easy gathering of the fruit.
Some individuals have leaves with a surface that is scabrous (rough) or papillate (bearing minute, nipple-shaped protuberances).
Conservation It is range and habitat is a small region, and the plant was listed by the IUCN as 'rare'.
The flowers are fragrant, cup-shaped, 15–25 cm broad, with nine thick, creamy white to pink tepals; stamens ca.
Human use The whekī is quite hardy and tolerant to sun and some wind, but is best suited to a site with partial shade and minimal wind.
If more than half of the crown is defoliated, most hardwoods will produce a second flush of foliage by midsummer.
Ligularia przewalskii, also called Przewalski's leopardplant and Przewalski's golden ray, is a species of perennial herbaceous plant in the genus Ligularia and the family Asteraceae, native to damp places in Mongolia and Northern China.
In 1977, 47 species of the irises in the Oncocyclus section were analysed, and it was found to have a chromosome count of 2n=20.
Port Melbourne: Elsevier Australia - Inkata Imprint, copyright Forestry Commission of New South Wales (published 1989-12-01).
Growth Philodendron adamantinum is a shrub that grows up to 5 feet (1.5 m) tall, and its adventitious roots can spread 33 feet (10 m) in all directions.
sibiricus which were found in the most eastern part of the Western Sayan and in the upper Naryn River.
The tip of the leaf is usually blunt, often slightly notched at the tip, but can be pointed, particularly on strong-growing shoots on young trees.
Growing to about 6–12 inches (15–30 centimetres) tall, it makes a mass of pink, purple and white fragrant four petalled (cruciform) flowers.
Once valued because of its long, straight trunk, its current rarity and vulnerable status mean its wood is now rarely used; it is also sacred to some indigenous Mapuche.
These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips.
It is noted for its centre turning red when it's about to flower, from where the common name (blushing) is derived.
These have been given similar common names, portmanteaus that combine the '-quat' ending of kumquat with an indication of the other parent citrus.
"Bromeliaceae da Mata Atlântica Brasileira: lista de espécies, distribuição e conservação" [Bromeliaceae of the brazilian Atlantic Forest: checklist, distribution and conservation].
It has also invaded the Kurulukele Forest Reserve in Kegalla, Sri Lanka, and other places where it has been planted as a decorative plant, or to hold steep banks along roads.
"Phylogenetic Analysis of Mealybugs (Hemiptera: Coccoidae: Pseudococcidae) Based on DNA sequences from Three Nuclear Genes, and a Review of the Higher Classification".
Distribution and habitat Coronidium newcastlianum is found along the Great Dividing Range in the Einasleigh Uplands bioregions of Queensland where it grows in eucalypt woodlands on rocky hills.
The palm's trunk grows to 9 m (30 ft) tall, or more sometimes, and is 20–25 cm (8–10 in) in diameter, when free of the leaf base fibers that tend to remain for a good while.
Malathion, methoxychlor, phosmet, trichlorfon, and synthetic pyrethroids (permethrin) are also registered with the EPA, but are used infrequently.
Distribution The species occurs naturally in parts of southern and central Africa, including South Africa, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Angola.
Convolvulus cneorum, the silverbush or shrubby bindweed, is a species of flowering plant in the family Convolvulaceae, which contains many plants described as "bindweed".
It has remained in comparative obscurity until recently, when its qualities as a garden plant were at last realized.
The rose was awarded the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit in 1993 and inducted into the Rose Hall of Fame in 2009 as "World's Favourite Rose".
Haworthia zantneriana is a species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, subfamily Asphodeloideae, endemic to the southern parts of the Western Cape and Eastern Cape Provinces in South Africa.
Yellow Bells have a similar nutrient profile to a potato but have 50 percent more protein, six times as much calcium, and nearly 30 times more iron.
The flowers are solitary yellow cups formed from four overlapping petals, 5–7 cm across, vaguely resembling the unrelated tulip; the two sepals underneath typically fall away as the flower opens.
Lilium speciosum contains phenolic glycosides, such as 6′-O-feruloylsucrose and (25R,26R)-26-methoxyspirost-5-en-3β-ol 3-O-α-l-rhamnopyranosyl-(1→2)-β-d-glucopyranoside, and steroidal saponins.
In the wild, plants are often half-buried, leaving only the tips of the leaves visible above the soil.
The flowers are grouped in panicles (with many branching stems), hence the specific epithet paniculata.
The taste and color of nectar widely vary between different species of flower; consequently, honey may vary in color and taste depending on the species of flower.
Virus taxonomy : classification and nomenclature of viruses : ninth report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.
During his historic journey, Meriwether Lewis collected a specimen while passing through Idaho in 1806.
A deciduous tuberous geophyte reaching 0.5 m (20 in), it is typically found in scrublands and forests at elevations from 1,300 to 2,400 m (4,300 to 7,900 ft).
It is also a popular ornamental tree in parks and large gardens, and along with the cultivar 'Golden Spreader' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The cultivar 'The Rocket' is a recipient of the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Description Jasmine can be either deciduous or evergreen, and can be erect, spreading, or climbing shrubs and vines.
It has inflated, green spathes (leaves of the flower bud), that are 10 cm (4 in) long, and the perianth tube is about 3 centimetres (1.2 in) in length.
Erythronium dens-canis, the dog's-tooth-violet is a bulbous herbaceous perennial flowering plant in the family Liliaceae.
The species was first described by Carl Linnaeus in his landmark 1758 10th edition of Systema Naturae.
Haworthia retusa, Haworthia bayeri, Haworthia springbokvlakensis, Haworthia mirabilis, Haworthia emelyae and Haworthia magnifica).
This species is variable and has multiple different regional forms: Flowers appear in September and October.
Distribution and habitat Euonymus alatus′s native distribution extends from northeastern Asia to central China.
Calathea louisae) is a species of plant belonging to the genus Goeppertia, native to Rio de Janeiro state of southeast Brazil but cultivated in other places as an ornamental.
Hybrids and cultivars In 1897, an illustration in The Garden magazine of 31 July, showed a border in Mr Van Tubergen's nursery with 400 flowers, which are the results of 3 seasons of cultivation of the irises.
These flowering trees are beautifully colored and are often planted both privately and commercially as ornamentals.
Host plants Buddleja – Buddleia, butterfly bush Himantoglossum hircinum – lizard orchid Scrophularia – figworts Verbascum – mulleins References Bibliography Heath, John; A.
Its leaves are usually 10–50 mm long and 5–30 mm wide, and may vary in size, texture, colour and margin.
Zoospores are motile asexual spores that can move through soil water through the use of their flagella.
The conventional way this fruit is eaten is when the outer casing is still unripe while the seeds are eaten as the fruit.
These hybrids combine some of the edibility properties of the more typical Citrus species with the cold hardiness of the kumquats, often being referred to as cold hardy citrus.
Taxonomy The species was first described by a Scottish botanist David Don in 1834 from the type specimen: This singularly beautiful species of Anigozanthos was raised in the garden at Whitmore Lodge, Berks., the seat of Robert Mangles, Esq.
The leaves resemble those of the closely related Eschscholzia, being finely divided into many gray-green linear lobes.
This type of grassland has been reduced to a fraction of its pristine range by forces such as overgrazing and the channelization of water.
For example, TNV has a high level of resistance to heat and chemical agents, as well as to degradation due to aging.
The origin of the popular English language name "monkey puzzle" lies in its early cultivation in Britain c.
Taxonomy For a general description of the taxonomic and nomenclature confusion, see Paghat's Garden, especially for the relationship between T.
The trees are dioecious, and the fruit is a hard-shelled bean in heavy, woody, thick-walled pods filled with sweet, thick, gooey pulp.
Many sources claim that roasting the seeds for a certain length of time can reduce or eliminate the cytisine thought to be in them, but this is not based on scientific evidence.
Another common (but somewhat ambiguous) name is "yellow bells", since it has a bell-shaped yellow flower.
The leaves that it produces in the spring are large, up to 16" (40 cm) long, among the largest of all colchicum species.
They are part of the necklace that a plant deity wears in a vase found in the Templo Mayor, although it could also be T.
The heavily clustered figs suggest fecundity, and some trees in East Africa have been venerated as sacred shrines in animist practices.
yamasakura, and cultivars of Sato-zakura group such as 'Fugenzo' and 'Mikurumakaishi' began to appear.
Wilt disease caused by a particular nucleopolyhedrovirus (LdNPV) that is specific to the gypsy moth is its most devastating natural disease, causing a dramatic collapse of outbreak populations by killing both the larvae and pupae.
However officially according to the World Checklist and The Plant List it is considered Narcissus cernuus.
Ecology Ruffed lemurs are a known pollinator of this plant and given the size and structure of the inflorescences, as well as the lemur's selectivity, method of feeding, and long muzzle, this relationship is thought to have coevolved.
The specific epithet divaricata is from Latin and refers to the wide-spreading branchlets of the flower panicle.
Codiaeum variegatum, commonly known as croton or variegated croton amongst many other names, is a species of plant in the Euphorbiaceae family.
In Japanese, fugen refers to Samantabhadra and zo refers to an elephant, and the origin of the name comes from the fact that the two pistils, which look like leaves, were likened to the tusks of a white elephant on which Samantabhadra rides.
Olive growing in the United States is primarily concentrated in warmer regions like California, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Georgia, and Florida.
Leaflets are 5 to 15 cm long, 1.5 to 6 cm wide, hairy and leathery, and usually not with a sharp point.
Boea is a genus of plants in the family Gesneriaceae, with species originating from Australia, China, India, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Polynesia, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, Nepal, Bhutan, Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos.
In 1969, Albert Smith transferred the species to Tasmannia based on its chromosome number of 13, compared to 43 in most others in Drimys.
Amberboa moschata (common name sweetsultan) is a Southwest Asian species of plants in the family Asteraceae.
In the temperate zones of Europe many of the hybrid large flowering sorts of gladiolus can be pollinated by small well-known wasps.
amazonica has longer leaf blades ((20–)30–40(–50) cm × (10–)12–18 cm), subulate free filaments (2.8–3.4 mm wide at the base), and staminal cups (11.2–13.8 mm long to the apex of teeth) longer than free filaments (6.5–8(–10) mm long).
The cultivars 'Compactus' and 'Fire Ball' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The leaves are dark green, elliptic toothed and 2–4 cm long, with irregularly lobed margins, and turn to yellow and reddish tones in autumn.
The glossy, evergreen foliage forms a billowing mound, with many fragrant, pure white flowers in tight clusters for several weeks during spring and early summer.
Description Magnolia campbellii is a medium-sized to large deciduous tree growing to 30 m, rarely to 45 m, tall, with smooth grey bark.
These flowers are variously coloured, ranging from pink to reddish or light purple with white, contrasting markings, or white to cream or orange to red.
It varies little except in northern New South Wales and southern Queensland, where some populations appear to be intermediate with B.
Ecology Pests and diseases The tree has considerable variability in resistance to Dutch elm disease; for example, trees from north-western and north-eastern China exhibit significantly higher tolerance than those from central and southern China.
Though Swingle had speculated that the Meiwa kumquat was a hybrid of oval and round kumquats, the genomic analysis suggested instead that the round kumquat was an oval/Meiwa hybrid.
The fruit is a dehiscent, two-chambered capsule, black/brown, densely hairy and about 35 mm (1.4 in) wide and long.
quadrans Hopper Distribution of the subspecies is as far north as Shark Bay, variation in habit and structure of the subspecies is otherwise discrete.
Cultivation A number of geranium species are cultivated for horticultural use and for pharmaceutical products.
In cultivation, it is preferable to keep a cold temperature, but more than 2 °C (36 °F) This plant has won the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Magnolia 'Butterflies' is a hybrid Magnolia that is the offspring of a cross between the cucumbertree Magnolia acuminata (seed parent) and the Yulan magnolia Magnolia denudata (pollen parent).
The hindwing of the male is whitish, with dark veins and cellspot, becoming diffusely fuscous along the termen; in the female it is darker throughout.
It occurs on various wild and garden forms of anemone, and has particular commercial importance on Anemone coronaria grown for cut flowers, for example in France and Italy.
Some have been assigned separate species names, though there is no agreement on the validity of these names.
Achillea is a reference to the Greek hero Achilles, who was trained to use herbs by his mentor, the centaur Chiron.
The species is reportedly naturalised in Florida, Chiapas, Central America, Queensland, and much of the West Indies.
Some studies indicate the effectiveness of the latter in the prevention of coronary artery disease, heart attacks, immune response, old age and cancer.
Meissner divided Brown's Banksia verae, which had been renamed Eubanksia by Stephan Endlicher in 1847, into four series based on leaf properties.
References External links Viburnum leaf beetle on the UF / IFAS Featured Creatures Web site [1] PEST ALERT: Viburnum Leaf Beetle [2] Penn State College of Agriculture Gardeners' World Bugguide.net.
Miscanthus nepalensis, Himalayan fairy grass, is a species of flowering plant in the grass family Poaceae, native to mountain slopes in China (Sichuan, Xizang, Yunnan), Bhutan, India, Myanmar and Nepal, and introduced in Malaysia.
Their salmon-colored, broadly egg-shaped to almost circular corolla lobes are narrowed or rounded at their tip and have a length of 2 to 4 millimeters and are 1.5 to 3 millimeters wide.
They are slightly succulent, fleshy with a waxy glossy surface, 3–5 centimetres (1.2–2.0 in) wide and 3.5–13 centimetres (1.4–5.1 in) long, with a petiole of about 1–1.5 centimetres (0.39–0.59 in).
The long-lasting, capitate-pyramidal inflorescences, branched at the base and simple at the apex, are composed of spike-like inflorescences.
Phytochemistry The seeds are very poisonous, containing erythroidine, a powerful muscle relaxant; erythroresin, an emetic; coralin; and erythric acid.
Iceland poppies are amongst the best poppies for cutting, as they last for several days in the vase.
In the mid-seventh-century Lombard laws, a composition of one solidi is set for felling a chestnut tree (or, also, hazel, pear or apple) belonging to another person (Edictum Rothari, No.
A western form, inhabiting shale rocks near Oudtshoorn, is sometimes considered a separate species, Haworthia truteriorum.
Native to central and southern Chile and western Argentina, it is the hardiest species in the conifer genus Araucaria.
It is a native of Eastern Cape Province, South Africa, and found in arid shrublands, most commonly on ridges and slopes with shallow soils.
Toxicity Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), and if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting.
Sap Obtaining the sap traditionally involves tapping the top shoots and collecting the dripping juice in hanging earthen pots (in some regions a plastic or bamboo bottle).
Description This species has a fast growth rate of up to 10 to 80 cm (4 to 31 in) a year, growing to about 6 m (20 ft) tall.
Trollius asiaticus, the Asian globeflower, is a species of ornamental plant in the family Ranunculaceae, which is native to Asia and Europe.
Gallery References ANU Forestry Illawarra plum - Podocarpus elatus Bruneteau, Jean-Paul, Tukka, Real Australian Food, ISBN 0-207-18966-8.
The type specimen was collected by Edward Palmer, one of the main US plant collectors of his time, in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas (possibly near Ciudad Victoria) in 1907.
Though perennial, the species is often cultivated as a biennial or annual plant, particularly in colder areas where it may not survive the winter.
Cultivars Several cultivars have been named, including 'Alba' (white flowers), 'Charles Raffil' (bright purple-pink flowers; starts flowering on younger trees), and 'Strybing White' (white flowers).
Botanist Karl Moritz Schumann named it after Wilhelm Lenninghaus (1845-1918), a native of North Rhine-Westphalia who, in the 1880s, left his hometown of Ennepetal and emigrated to Porto Alegre, Brazil, where he became Guillermo Lenninghaus, and collected cacti for the German grower Haage.
A spreading perennial, it is recommended as a pollinator-attracting ground cover, for rock and gravel gardens, and for planting beneath roses.
Primula is found in mountainous or higher latitude zones of North America, Europe, and Asia, with extension into South America, Africa (mountains of Ethiopia) and tropical Asia (islands of Java and Sumatra).
It is not hardy, and requires protection when temperatures fall below 5 °C (41 °F) (USDA Zones: 9a–11b).
See also Tristaniopsis collina, hill water gum Syzygium francisii, giant water gum Syzygium crebrinerve, black water gum == References ==
Hoya carnosa, the porcelain flower or wax plant, is a species of flowering plant in the family Apocynaceae, native to East Asia.
Occurrence The lenga beech can be found in the Torres del Paine National Park, Tierra del Fuego National Park, Los Alerces National Park and Nahuel Huapi National Park among other places.
When mature, 'Stargazers' can grow to a height of 36 inches with a spread of 10 to 14 inches with 2 to 8 flowers per stem.
It is found in eastern South Africa in the provinces of KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Limpopo, Namibia, Angola and Botswana and in eastern tropical Africa into Ethiopia.
Rubrums were a predecessor commercial lily to the 'Stargazers' whose flowers pointed down to the ground.
It prefers sunshine and moist (but drained) soil, and is tolerant of severe winter cold, but not heat.
Its rosette of succulent leaves are turned back ("retuse") so as to provide a flat and level face, on the surface of the ground.
The stimulus is transmitted as an action potential from a stimulated leaflet to the leaflet's swollen base (pulvinus), and from there to the pulvini of the other leaflets, which run along the length of the leaf's rachis.
It is native in Greece and Albania and may be naturalized elsewhere in Mediterranean Europe where it occurs in maritime sandy habitats and in waste places.
Evidence of large amount of macro-charcoals in the top layers of soil suggest that Alsophila tricolor establishes itself in areas where anthropogenic fires occur.
Pure stands usually indicate sites unfavorable to conifer growth or recurring disturbance such as fire or logging activities.
Haworthia retusa, Haworthia bayeri, Haworthia springbokvlakensis, Haworthia pygmaea, Haworthia mirabilis and Haworthia magnifica).
It is a banyan of the genus Ficus which contains around 750 species worldwide in warm climates, including the edible fig (Ficus carica).
The cypselas are about 1.3 mm (0.051 in) long and the pappus has thread-like bristles joined at the base.
In spite of its scientific and common names, it is native to the western Mediterranean region, and it has been introduced to the British Isles, and to Tasmania.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, then updated on 18 January 2006.
In the face of urban development, inappropriate fire management, and invasive alien trees such as pines and gums, silvertrees have been driven from about 74% of their natural range.
Root rot can be a problem in potted indoor plants, if the soil is too moist or does not contain enough inert drainage material.
Use in horticulture A cultivar known as Kennedia nigricans 'Minstrel' was registered with the Australian Cultivar Registration Authority by Goldup Nursery of Mount Evelyn, Victoria in September 1985.
Its leaves can be up to 25 cm (10 in) long, with a mix of purplish, green, and silvery green blotches.
It is native to tropical and Southern Africa but has become naturalized in other parts of the world, including Western Australia and Bangladesh.
The common names comes from that of Cornus sanguinea, the hard wood of which Northern Europeans used to make nails ("dags") during the medieval era.
External links Erythrina coralloides photos International Legume Database & Information Service: Erythrina coralloides
Hoya carnosa has been in cultivation for more than 200 years and has given rise to many cultivars that vary in foliage form or flower color.
Podocarpus elatus, known as the plum pine, the brown pine, the Illawarra plum or the Queensland Christmas tree, is a species of Podocarpus endemic to the east coast of Australia, in eastern New South Wales and eastern Queensland.
The species has been collected in a tropical deciduous forest, among roadside limestone rocks, and on limestone outcrops.
The gravel along railroad beds provides ideal conditions for its growth - well-drained, nutrient-poor soil, and high light conditions; these beds provide corridors that facilitate its spread.
Since the 2000s, bara has been used by non-Japanese audience as an umbrella term to describe a wide variety of Japanese and non-Japanese gay media featuring love and sex between masculine men.
Description Pelargonium radens is an evergreen perennial plant, growing to up to 1.5 m (4 ft 11 in) high.
Interns, aides, and other White House workers are often granted clippings of the famous plant which they grow and further distribute to friends and family.
The stem has pale green spathes, (leaves of the flower bud), that are between 10–12.5 cm (4–5 in) long.
It can usually be distinguished from these however, by the tip of the free portion of each drupe of its fruit-head, which usually does not have an areole.
In spring (November to December) it bears 15 cm (6 in) long stems of green-white, tubular flowers in racemes.
It is adapted to a wide variety of fire regimes, with intervals ranging from just one year on dry sites, to 500 years or more in moist, riparian zones.
The flowers are star-shaped, with at least 12 thin, delicate petal-like tepals, some cultivars having more than 30.
The flowers are 2.5–6 cm in diameter, mildly scented, with five petals, eight stamens, and a 2.5–3-cm-long nectar spur at the rear.
Cultivars of French origin include Bouche de Betizac, Maraval, Marigoule, Marsol, and Precoce Migoule.
Although Alan Meerow and Bijan Dehgan in 1984 corrected this mistake, the long-time confusion between the two species has persisted and U.
The species is cultivated as an ornamental and has become naturalized in many areas, including Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, and in southern and western parts of the United States.
Soil moisture levels that are close to field capacity, whether the water comes from rainfall or irrigation, have been shown to increase the likelihood of soil-borne diseases.
See also List of Philodendron species References Media related to Philodendron erubescens at Wikimedia Commons
The pollen production of P.rhoeas, on a per flower basis, was very high in comparison with the other plants tested, at almost triple the amount of the top-ranked perennial (a mallow).
Cultivars References Martinelli, Gustavo; Vieira, Cláudia Magalhães; Gonzalez, Marcos; Leitman, Paula; Piratininga, Andréa; Costa, Andrea Ferreira da; Forzza, Rafaela Campostrini (January 2008).
External links The dictionary definition of kumquat at Wiktionary Data related to Fortunella at Wikispecies Kumquat at the Wikibooks Cookbook subproject
Arytera divaricata, known as the gap axe, coogara, coogera or rose tamarind is a forest tree of eastern Australia.
When Mengniu had financial trouble as the result of business following its role in the 2008 Chinese milk scandal, in July 2009, Mengniu sold a 20% stake to a consortium led by the state-owned COFCO Group, China's largest importer and exporter of food.
Black tar heroin is often produced in Latin America, and is most commonly found in the western and southern parts of the United States, while also being occasionally found in Western Africa.
Contaminated syrups The outbreak in Madhya Pradesh was primarily linked to Coldrif, produced by Sresan Pharmaceuticals, which contained approximately 48.6% diethylene glycol (DEG), far exceeding permissible limits and causing multiple child fatalities.
Health concerns Because of the woody core of the cobs of corn, the alcohol produced contains high levels of methanol, which is toxic.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev called for a ban on non-traditional alcoholic liquids like bath oils, saying "it's an outrage, and we need to put an end to this".
Justice Woodward noted that the scale of the operation could not be properly assessed due to attempts to cover it up, but said that the types of meat used as substitutes would be easily obtained in the eastern states of Australia.
The company supplies 2,300 institutions within the UK, including schools, old-age people homes, prisons and branches of the armed forces.
Excessive intake of NPN can have adverse effects on animal health and productivity, as well as environmental implications.
See also Antioxidant Photolysis (photodegradation) Radical (chemistry) References External links "Weird chemical used in plastics has erupted as latest fentanyl adulterant".
Despite his requests, the Army was dedicated to supporting the Chicago meatpacking industry, which eventually shipped hundreds of tons of refrigerated and canned beef to the Army from the mainland.
Police found photos of contaminated baby food on his laptop with jars identical to those found in Rochdale.
Counterfeit cannabis buds: Hemp buds (or low-potency cannabis buds) laced with synthetic cannabinoids.
The municipal pharmaceutical inspector, María Elisa Álvarez Obaya, started to think about possibility of poisoning, when she noticed four victims had been in the same party.
However, according to the internationally harmonized guideline, ICH Q7, API manufacturers are fully responsible for qualifying their suppliers through on-site audits, testing, and regular communications.
The bribery allegation indicates that Maiden Pharmaceuticals had foreknowledge that their cough syrup was tainted.
Miles made reference to "embalmed beef." Miles, a Civil War Union Army veteran, had many years of experience with army provisions.
Preparation Due to the pungent smell of the distilling process, Tharra is often prepared in remote fields, away from human settlements.
The first factory was established in the Volta Region, taking advantage of the area's supply of sugar cane plantations.
TOCP was originally thought to be non-toxic; however, it was later determined to be a neurotoxin that causes axonal damage to the nerve cells in the nervous system of mammals, especially those located in the spinal cord.
Investigation, arrests and court case On the Sunday morning the local police were informed of the deaths of a man named Elijah Wright and two boys, aged 9 and 14, the sons of John Scott; it was thought that the cause of the deaths was cholera.
The 2011 Turkish Riviera mass alcohol poisoning was an event that occurred on May 26–27, 2011, during a party on a yacht voyage of mostly female Russian tourists on the way from Bodrum to Antalya, southwestern Turkey.
On 9 January 2020, a police report indicated quantities of diethylene glycol in one brand of beer from the small upscale brewery Backer that could have poisoned 18 people in Belo Horizonte and other cities in Minas Gerais state.
At the time, concerns arose that the scandal would affect the beef-exporting industry, as the United States was the largest importer of Australian beef.
Cocaine is prohibited in competition for athletes by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), which lists it as a stimulant on its International Standard for the Prohibited List.
The eggs contained 4.7 ppm (part per million) of melamine, compared to the government imposed legal limit of 2.5 ppm for melamine in food.
2008 16 July: Gansu Province reports to the Ministry of Health that local hospitals had identified an increase in the incidence of kidney ailments among babies in the months earlier, and that most victims had consumed Sanlu's baby formula.
Adverse effects People who intravenously inject black tar heroin are at higher risk of venous sclerosis than those injecting powder heroin.
Alger from the Chicago "big three" meatpacking corporations, Morris & Co, Swift & Co, and Armour & Co.
Background Alcohol poisoning incidents are common in India, where poor people often cannot afford licensed liquor.
[was] apparently preserved by injected chemicals to aid deficient refrigeration," the medical officer wrote.
It is not clear whether the FDA checked samples of the same brands of food in which acetaminophen was allegedly found because the initial laboratory could not initiate contact with the FDA or publicly identify the manufacturer because of client confidentiality.
Most of the victims were foreign workers from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Myanmar, and Nepal, as well as several Malaysians.
Background Deaths from illicit liquor are common in India, where illegally manufactured alcohol is often consumed for reasons including poverty and geographic isolation.
It is prepared by boiling barley grains or rice and some local herb known as Phab in water and then fermenting the material.
Before modern microbiology, foodborne illness was not understood, and, from the mid 1800s to early-mid 1900s, was perceived as ptomaine poisoning, caused by a fundamental flaw in understanding how it worked.
Until October, 45 people from the total of 98 cases have been reported dead by the Malaysian Health Ministry.
The scandal As a result, most of the meat arriving in Cuba was found to be so poorly preserved, chemically adulterated, or spoiled so that it was toxic and dangerous to consume.
The Tammany Hall politician Alderman Michael Tuomey, known as "Butcher Mike", defended the distillers vigorously throughout the scandal—in fact, he was put in charge of the Board of Health investigation.
In its natural state, nitrogen exists primarily as a gas (N2) in the atmosphere, making up about 78% of the air we breathe.
The four products were Promethazine Oral Solution, Kofexmalin Baby Cough Syrup, Makoff Baby Cough Syrup, and Magrip N Cold Syrup.
The original Xuzhou Anying wheat gluten was "human grade," as opposed to "feed grade," meaning that it could have been used to make food for humans such as bread or pasta.
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the first schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1958 (6 & 7 Eliz.
One month after the initial recall, contaminated rice protein from a different source in China was also identified as being associated with kidney failure in pets in the United States, while contaminated corn gluten was associated with kidney failure with pets in South Africa.
Laboratory grade is suitable for use in educational settings, but is not acceptable for food or drug use.
However, Clemenceau judged that the law must show strength and appealed to the army to restore order.
Planning In 1981, several thousand of Rajneesh's followers had moved onto the "Big Muddy Ranch" in rural Wasco County, Oregon, where they later incorporated as an intentional community called "Rajneeshpuram".
Black tar heroin's unique appearance and texture are due to its acetylation without the benefit of the usual reflux apparatus.
History Issue Chicken eggs were found to contain fipronil and distributed to 15 European Union countries, Switzerland, and Hong Kong.
The poisoning was precipitated by drinking counterfeit surrogate alcohol—actually scented bath lotion that was marked as not safe for consumption.
The two Australian victims, both 19 years old, initially fell ill on 13 November, after a night of drinking with a group of others.
United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, Arla is distributed by Volac, which also distributes Nestle, First Milk and Wilmar.
We found out that my nephew was poisoned by that drug through the results of medical examinations in Karshi.
Therefore, keeping cows stabled near distilleries and feeding them with swill was an economic advantage.
She added that even though she felt the alcohol tasted unusually strong, she did not realise anything.
Additional features can include cough, fever, fatigue, joint pain, edema, and numbness or tingling, usually in the limbs, hands and feet.
Some of the commonly used grades of purity include: ACS grade is the highest level of purity, and meets the standards set by the American Chemical Society (ACS).
After the negotiation and the agreement to move to avoid collective punishment, the mutineers of the 17th were assigned to Gafsa in Tunisia.
Outbreaks caused by infectious agents Outbreaks caused by chemical contamination See also List of epidemics List of food contamination incidents == References ==
In November 2024, six people died from suspected methanol poisoning at a bar in Vang Vieng, Laos, as a result of consuming contaminated alcohol.
You were carrying on your life normally while hoping to make yourself rich by threatening Tesco in this way while endangering the life of others in the process.".
2006 – China Wang Guiping discovered how easy it was to enter China's pharmaceutical supply business and earn extra money.
The Gambia cough syrup scandal refers to the deaths of 70 children in The Gambia from the consumption of four cough syrups manufactured in India.
"Arege mogo" which first originated in Lira district in northern Uganda made and sold all over the country .
The United States Army beef scandal was an American political scandal caused by the widespread distribution of extremely low-quality, heavily adulterated beef products to U.S Army soldiers fighting in the Spanish–American War.
It is engaged in processing and manufacturing of milk products, including ice cream, milk tea powder, sterilized milk and fresh milk under "Yili" brand, powdered milk under "Pro-Kido" brand, and organic milk under "Satine" brand.
Brown-brown, or brown cocaine, is a purported form of cocaine or amphetamine insufflation mixed with smokeless gunpowder.
Methamphetamine MSM is sometimes used as a cutting agent for illicitly manufactured methamphetamine.
Uses In many countries, sales of alcoholic beverages are heavily taxed for revenue and public health policy purposes (see Pigovian tax).
Video games In the video game Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty (2001), Raiden divulges his experience as a child soldier and references the use of brown-brown.
"The new standard requires Fonterra to purchase on segregated supply palm oil by 2018, and to work with suppliers of palm products to ensure that plans are in place for full traceability to plantation by 2018", said Fonterra's director of social responsibility, Carolyn Mortland.
Impact Tesco was forced to issue a product recall of 42,000 jars after the contaminated jars were found in Lockerbie and Rochdale.
A scandal involving 240 tons of gutter oil in Taiwan affecting hundreds of companies and thousands of restaurants, some of which may have been exported overseas, broke in September 2014.
According to legend, locals rushed in boats to save him or preserve his body from being eaten by the fish.
Since 2008, Chang Guann had imported 56 batches of lard oil weighing 2,385.1 tons from Hong Kong, about 300 tons of which were purchased from Globalway Corp between 2011 and 2014.
It is made from yeast fermentation of sugarcane, or wheat husk, especially in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana.
10 illegal liquor shops in the Diamond Harbour subdivision, one of the affected communities, were shut down by the police as well.
13 September: Production halted at Sanlu; nineteen people are arrested; Baidu denies ever agreeing to bury Sanlu negative news 15 September: Beijing confirms two babies dead.
Indian authorities, however, did not find any toxins but did identify labeling issues with Maiden Pharmaceuticals' cough syrup.
Food and Drug Administration was quoted as stating that at least 81 deaths were believed to be linked to a raw heparin ingredient imported from the People's Republic of China, and that they had also received 785 reports of serious injuries associated with the drug's use.
Weight cutting agents: Binding substances: Sometimes cannabis is adulterated with other binding substances including industrial glues such as neoprene, tar, ammonia, bitumen, petroleum-derived hydrocarbons, dog food or even human or animal excrement.
Cause According to police, the victims suffered methanol poisoning from methanol that had been added to the liquor to increase its potency.
References External links Guangdong Yashili Group Co Ltd Archived 2021-05-02 at the Wayback Machine Yashili International Holdings Ltd
Ltd teamed up with Arla Foods, the largest producer of dairy products in Scandinavia, to produce and distribute solid milk products in China, including Hong Kong and Macau.
Gray death is a slang term which refers to potent mixtures of synthetic opioids, for example benzimidazole opioids or fentanyl analogues, which were often sold on the street misleadingly as "heroin".
Harry Gross and his part-owner of Boston-Hub Products, Max Reisman, were ultimately fined $1,000 each and given a two-year suspended jail sentence.
He ate some of the sweets and by 5:30 pm he became ill; he went home and left his assistant to look after the stall until it closed at 11:30 pm, by which point about a thousand sweets had been sold.
Bangalore police arrested a kingpin of the illicit liquor network, but the prime supplier committed suicide.
Health risks Although practiced for many centuries, the drinking of realgar wine and the painting of children with realgar have come under scrutiny in modern times.
Tests revealed that they were horse meat, not beef, and further testing elsewhere in the United States revealed that some Australian "beef" contained kangaroo meat.
Halifax 1902 beer poisoning Such contamination was tied to an outbreak in the borough of Halifax in January and February 1902 where 13 to 14 cases of arsenic poisoning were noted, three deadly.
As of 1998, US Customs regulations on "country of origin" have stated that if a non-origin nation is shown on the label, then the real origin must be shown on the same side of the label and in comparable size letters so as not to mislead the consumer.
Around 30 people in connection with the distribution have been arrested despite little response and insufficient enforcement of the black market in the country from the authorities has attracted criticism.
Other studies have highlighted numerous major flaws in many of the epidemiological studies on the association of tryptophan with EMS, which cast serious doubt on the validity of their results.
See also Human subject research legislation in the United States List of medicine contamination incidents 1985 Austrian diethylene glycol wine scandal == References ==
Behzod Musayev, the minister of the health department of Republic of Uzbekistan, sent a video message of condolence to the parents and relatives of 18 children who died after taking the Dok-1 Max drug.
In the United States, the cookies are primarily found in Asian specialty stores and some Hispanic specialty stores.
Government actions The Tamil Nadu state drug control department cancelled all manufacturing licenses of Sresan Pharma.
It should no longer be issued." Miles also made public statements, reported in the newspapers, claiming that the canned meat was the after-product of the process for making beef extract.
The WHO has urged countries to enhance surveillance and offer support to countries lacking testing resources.
His successor, Yeh Ching-chuan, announced a return to the original zero-tolerance policy to melamine.
This means that 50% of street heroin in the UK in 1995 had worked its way from producer to user without being cut at any stage, although other adulterants may have been present.
Although the first case of a fatality from the related ethylene glycol occurred in 1930 and studies had been published in medical journals stating DEG could cause kidney damage or failure, its toxicity was not widely known prior to the incident.
Both sites were kept under 24-hour video surveillance for several months, but the killer did not surface.
This would have followed the Army's traditional practice of procuring fresh beef from local sources.
In 2005, AQSIQ established a sui generis system to cover the use of geographical indication products through the 2005 Provisions on the Protection of GI Products.
"Industry, government and enforcement agencies should, as a precautionary principle, always put the needs of consumers above all other considerations, and this means giving food safety and food crime prevention—i.e.
On 7 July 1981, about 300 people (Official figures 229) around the Tannery Road area died as a result of consuming this spurious alcohol.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also monitored hospitals and poison control centers during this period, and reported on 2 May 2007 that there had been no increase in reports of kidney disease.
Sales of Yashily branded infant formula increased by 27.3% while sales of the firm's Scient brand declined 0.8%.
While ya dong may legally be prescribed as a tincture by traditional medicine practitioners, in modern times, with legal restriction on alcohol production, it has become associated with illegal spirit production and is often described in English as moonshine.
At least 58 people died from consumption of tainted liquor and more than 200 people were admitted to hospitals.
According to Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), a minimum of 2,601 people died in Russia as a result of methanol poisoning between 2015 and 2025.
Incident On 18 May 2008, some people from the Bangalore Urban, Bangalore Rural and Kolar district in the state of Karnataka and neighbouring Krishnagiri district in the state of Tamil Nadu, consumed moonshine (illicit liquor) made with camphor and tobacco.
On 16 September, the AQSIQ tests on baby milk powder produced by 109 companies showed 69 batches from 22 companies to be melamine-contaminated; the State Council attempted to reassure that formula produced by most companies in China was safe.
An investigation found that most of the victims had bought a cheap liquor from hole in the wall stores in bid to evade the tax rates on Malaysian alcohols that range from 150–560%.
It is consumed in many district of Himachal Pradesh, such as kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba, Kullu and Kangra.
However, other substances such as cocaine have also been laced with opioids that resulted in illness and death.
The 2001 publication of Judith Miller's Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War, which contained an analysis and detailed description of the events, also brought discussion of the incident back into the news.
Since May 2018, methanol has been banned in the European Union for use in windscreen washing or defrosting due to the risk of human consumption.
Ehrlich reagent can only detect drugs with an indole moiety, but this is useful because drugs from the NBOMe class do not have an indole and are often sold as LSD which does.
Arak or araq (Arabic: عرق, Hebrew: ערק), is a distilled Levantine spirit of the anise drinks family.
The 2018 Malaysia methanol poisonings occurred in September 2018 in three states and two federal territories in Malaysia comprising Selangor (64 cases), Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya (18 cases), Perak (13 cases) and Negeri Sembilan (3 cases).
Maiden Pharmaceuticals produced the cough syrup in question, and it has been implicated in child deaths in Gambia.
History and etymology The substance first appeared in America and was thought to be a unique chemical compound before being identified as a mixture of drugs.
In June 2008, the company acquired the yoghurt and dairy dessert business of Nestlé Australia, which it on-sold to Parmalat Australia in December 2015.
The first four Unabomber crimes happened in Chicago and its suburbs from 1978 to 1980, and Kaczynski's parents had a suburban Chicago home in Lombard, Illinois, in 1982, where he stayed occasionally.
The official descriptions of the ACS levels of purity is documented in the Reagent Chemicals publication, issued by the ACS.
The crisis escalated in February 2013 when some Findus products were found to contain as much as 100% horsemeat instead of beef.
The "fridge test" for adulteration was evaluated by scientists at the Olive Center at the University of California, Davis.
charcoal), to interfere with color-based drug tests (mixing thiocyanates and iron salts or cobalt salts forms deep red complexes in solution), to make the mixture undetectable by drug sniffing dogs (activated carbon may sufficiently absorb trace odors).
In Israel During the age of austerity in the early years of the State of Israel, arak (in Hebrew, ערק) was locally made, with few imports.
In 2012, a study in India across 29 states and union territories found that milk was adulterated with detergent, fat, and even urea, and diluted with water.
Reagent testing is one of the processes used to identify substances contained within a pill, usually illicit substances.
Causes of this damage are associated with iodine, phosphorus and other toxic substances that are present after synthesis.
While at the time of the scare the company's market share collapsed from 35 percent to 8 percent, it rebounded in less than a year, a move credited to the company's prompt and aggressive reaction.
Research According to researchers, food adulteration has existed from historical times and is still prevalent.
Desi daru (Hindi: देसी दारू), also known as country liquor or Indian-made Indian liquor (IMIL), is a local category of liquor produced on the Indian subcontinent, as opposed to Indian-made foreign liquor.
Hooch is brewed from industrial alcohol, by separating methyl alcohol and adding water – a risky process which can leave traces of poisonous methyl alcohol.
Indian authorities started investigating an April 2023 allegation that a pharmaceutical regulator in Haryana state, who holds a senior position in the state health department, accepted a bribe and switched samples of contaminated cough syrup before the state government laboratory tested them.
These incidents are often – but not exclusively – associated with methanol poisoning of the victims, where toxic methyl alcohol is used as a cheap way, as compared to the proper use of ethanol, to increase the alcohol content of moonshine.
Several governments, including Australia, updated their travel advisories, warning citizens about the dangers of unregulated local alcohol in Southeast Asia.
Greenpeace campaign director Chris Harris said only 4 per cent of palm oil came from sustainable sites.
Shortly after that, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetaldehyde (C4H8O3) is metabolized by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) to the weak acid 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA), chemical formula C4H8O4.
From 2015, however, several upscale bars have developed their own versions, and the drink has also been introduced to the United States.
Twenty-two-year-old Viktoria Nikolaeva (Russian: Виктория Николаева), who was being treated in the intensive station of Akdeniz University's hospital in Antalya, died due to brain damage in the evening hours of June 20, 2011.
This included a surge of victims within a 72-hour period in January 2025, during which at least 30 people died.
While the medical establishment ditched ptomaine theory by the 1930s, it remained in the public consciousness until the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Similarly, a WHO investigation attributed dozens of child deaths in the Gambia to four Indian cough syrups contaminated with ethylene glycol or diethylene glycol.
This is a list of foodborne illness outbreaks by death toll, caused by infectious disease, heavy metals, chemical contamination, or from natural toxins, such as those found in poisonous mushrooms.
Pharmaceutical company Baxter International subcontracted the creation of precursor chemicals of heparin to Scientific Protein Laboratories, an American company with production facilities located in China.
Tharra (Hindi: ठर्रा, Urdu: ٹھرا) is a type of Desi daru which is locally, and often illegally, brewed alcoholic drink in the Indian subcontinent, mainly India and Pakistan.
The rise in bootleg alcohol production has been attributed to increased government taxes on legal alcoholic beverages.
Following the tragedy, the police conducted more than 8,000 raids in the state, booking 6,713 persons for violation of prohibition On 14 July, the police announced that Vinod Chauhan, the prime accused had managed to slip out of Gujarat.
It is usually made during the summer season, as the weather and environment help the fermentation process.
The L-tryptophan was produced by a bacterium grown in open vats in a Showa Denko fertilizer factory.
The WHO has since then tried to re-create the poisoning in laboratory animals with less-than-satisfactory results.
The 2008 Chinese milk scandal is among the few known events about the harm caused by the addition of melamine in milk.
For example, the presence of foreign elements may have important effects on the mechanical and magnetic properties of metal alloys.
Financial results For the six months ended 30 June 2012, Yashili group's revenue amounted to RMB1,689.1 million, a 17.0% increase compared to the same period of the preceding year.
In 2012 the UK's leading dairy farmer co-operative Milk Link joined Arla Foods Amba, to become one of the largest and most successful European Dairy Co-operatives.
Diagnosis of this illness is usually based on clinical findings and no single laboratory test is available.
In 2021, 860 kg (1,900 lb) of black cocaine disguised as charcoal, in 30 sacks among 1,364 sacks of charcoal, were seized in Spain, one of the biggest cocaine seizures recorded in Castilla y León.
The Gujarat alcohol poisonings occurred in July 2009 in Gujarat, resulting in the death of 136 people from consumption of bootleg liquor.
Results of the scandal Although there were no official findings of large-scale trouble with meat supplies, the newspapers stirred up public opinion on the subject.
Marihuana prensada or cannabis prensado (pressed cannabis or marijuana), also known as ladrillo (brick weed) or, colloquially, paragua or paraguayo is a compressed cannabis cut into blocks that facilitate transport.
Pure beryl will appear colorless but this rarely occurs and the presence of trace elements change its color.
Galician journalist and writer Fernando Rodríguez Méndez investigated this case for five years and published several books that have returned this story of money, poison and death to the present.
Mostly, the poisoning incidents have been reported from rural areas, where denatured spirit's use has proliferated due to illegal manufacturing facilities.
Use Although cannabis can be found in foods, beverages, cosmetics, etc., marihuana prensada is exclusively smoked in the form of a cigarette (joint).
Reported fipronil concentrations The maximum residue limit (MRL) of fipronil in eggs is set at the detection limit of 0.005 mg/kg within the European Union, as is outlined in Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2005.
Semiconductors that are p-doped contains a small amount of elements that have less valence electrons then the other elements in the crystal.
Clandestine and fraudulent production Clandestine liquor production is still prevalent, but it is seen more as a tradition than a business as it would be difficult to compete with the nationally produced guaro.
An invoice dated September 25, 1984, from the American Type Culture Collection of microbes was discovered, showing an order received by the Rajneeshpuram laboratory for Salmonella typhi, the bacterium that causes the life-threatening illness typhoid fever.
Department of Agriculture announced that the meat of 345 hogs that had eaten contaminated feed had entered the U.S.
International criticisms Since 1992, an average of around 1,000 people have died from drinking alcohol illegally, which has caused much international concern.
It also mentions in passing the product makes use of "NPN" which is an acronym for non-protein nitrogen.
The court of inquiry In the months following the 1898 Spanish–American War, during a court of inquiry held to investigate problems in the U.S.
Wu Heping, secretary general of the Heilongjiang Dairy Industry Association noted that between 75% and 90% of raw milk in some provinces had failed to reach the old protein level standard (in place since 1986) in 2007 and 2008.
The Czech government established a central emergency response council and banned the sale of liquors with more than 30% alcohol by volume at food stands on 12 September 2012.
Similar incidents A similar incident, the Pärnu methanol poisoning incident, occurred in Pärnu county, Estonia, in September 2001, when 68 people died and 43 were left disabled after contents of stolen methanol canisters were used in production of bootleg liquor.
Since yellow fever frequently causes symptoms similar to bacterial food poisoning (fever, vomiting, severe or bloody diarrhea), little connection was made at the time between illness and consumption of the Chicago beef.
Alger Francis Buzzacott, army scout and writer who testified in support of Miles Further reading Laurie Winn Carlson, Cattle: An Informal Social History, Ivan R.
Most of those who died were economically and socially backward Dalits from Kallakurichi, and nearby villages.
The colonial government had banned the sale of local liquor (Pelele) and so the women carrying milk also carried Pelele disguised as milk.
Background In April 2016, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar enacted legislation banning the sale and consumption of alcohol in the Bihar.
In December 2023, Yili Group established an internal militia unit reporting to the People's Liberation Army within the company.
Zone refining, another purification method, is an economically important method for the purification of semiconductors.
Since over-sulfated chondroitin is not a naturally occurring molecule, costs a fraction of true heparin starting material, and mimics the in-vitro properties of heparin, the counterfeit was almost certainly intentional as opposed to an accidental lapse in manufacturing.
Local economy It is often consumed by poor or landless tillers, typically distilled with the connivance of officials and police officers, generating large profits.
The drinks contained methanol, a toxic chemical that, when ingested, can lead to blindness or death from nervous system paralysis.
This approach is intended to accommodate the use of geographical indications in handicrafts like embroidery or ceramics.
It is consumed on festive occasions, religious festivals and other social gatherings.Jhol یا Jhol (هندی: Jhol) یک نوشیدنی الکلی است که در ایالت هیماچال پرادش در شمال هند تولید می شود .
In the United States and other countries, the use of denatured alcohol unsuitable for beverages avoids excise taxes on alcohol.
Cases of mass methanol poisoning have occurred in Thailand from the production and distribution of ya dong.
Arrests By 22 June 2015, seven people had been arrested, and eight police officers were suspended for negligence, in connection with the incident.
Reactions After the incident, there had been demands for repealing the prohibition of alcohol in the state.
The water used to make the drink in illegal breweries is also often below acceptable health standards and sometimes contaminated with sewage.
Health concerns The brew is often doctored in unsafe and poisonous ways, and its regular abuse frequently has resulted in alcohol poisoning related hospitalizations, blindness, and death.
In the month of May there were large gatherings in the prefectures and sub-prefectures of Languedoc-Roussillon.
The term desi daru usually refers to legal alcohol while other types of country liquor (arrack and palm toddy) may be categorised as moonshine alcohol.
Writing systems When a constructed language has multiple writing systems, the following BCP 47 tags can be used to differentiate between them.
Matija Majar, also spelled Majer (7 February 1809 – 31 July 1892), pseudonym Ziljski, was a Carinthian Slovene Roman Catholic priest and political activist, best known as the creator of the idea of a United Slovenia.
In the 2007 animated film Ratatouille, the character chef Auguste Gusteau's first name and last name are verlans of each other.
Blissymbols differ from most of the world's major writing systems in that the characters do not correspond at all to the sounds of any spoken language.
28 October] 1885 – 28 June 1922), was a Russian poet and playwright, a central part of the Russian Futurist movement, but his work and influence stretch far beyond it.
In this vein, Parkinson wrote: Leibniz's views about the systematic character of all knowledge are linked with his plans for a universal symbolism, a Characteristica Universalis.
History According to Tobias Churton in his text The Golden Builders, the concept of an Angelic or antediluvian language was common during Dee's time.
Some common clusters are: Vowel Absence The absence of vowel phonemes in consonant clusters or after word-end consonants is marked by the absence of vowel letters.
Schleyer himself never agreed with this essential limitation of his copyright, and when Kerckhoffs offered to block reform of Volapük, Schleyer dismissed in its entirety the whole Academy.
Lidia, in particular, took a keen interest in Esperanto, and as an adult became a teacher of the language, travelling through Europe and to America to teach classes in it.
When the mountains are hit by a thunderstorm, Dominic rushes to her rescue and finds Veronica chanting in Sanskrit.
In 2016, he was awarded the Neil and Saras Smith Medal for Linguistics by the British Academy "for his outstanding lifetime contribution to the field of linguistics".
Rules Example : 食饭 → 手习花散 [sit fan] → [siu jit fa san]; eat (rice) → hand + learn + flower + separation.
The language is used for the second time in song in Enya's 2015 album Dark Sky Island, on two tracks which follow the 'intergalactic' theme of the title - "The Forge of The Angels" and "The Loxian Gates".
The characteristic has also been claimed as an ancestor of the pictographic Energy Systems Language and associated Emergy Synthesis of Odum's Systems Ecology (Cevolatti and Maud, 2004).
La ricerca della lingua perfetta nella cultura europea (The Search for the Perfect Language (the Making of Europe); trans.
A palatalized consonant is marked with a hacek, a nasalized vowel with a tilde: ã (among other things, nasalization marks the accusative case; a long vowel by a circumflex: â If stress is not marked, it falls on the last non-schwa vowel preceding the last consonant of the word.
Structures of this sort may with some adroitness be made to stand; but their equilibrium is unstable, and sooner or later they will inevitably tumble over.
For example, words beginning with 'sol', which include no repeating syllables, have meanings related to arts or sciences (e.g.
Based in Amsterdam, Netherlands, its main functions are the propagation of the language, arranging the yearly conferences in which Ido speakers gather, and the publishing of the magazine Progreso (Progress), begun in 1908 by Louis Couturat, one of the founders of the movement who died in 1914.
As a historian, Baumann published work on the history of Bavaria and Bavarian culture, publishing a book Bavarian trade in the 18th Century, especially under Elector Maximilian III Joseph: Cultural-historical Studies from Archive Sources (German: Das bayerische Handelswesen im 18.
Background "Sanomi" was written in an imaginary language by Yves Barbieux, a member of the Belgian folk music band Urban Trad, of which he was a part along with Verónica Codesal, Marie-Sophie Talbot, Didier Laloy, Dirk Naessens, Cédric Waterschoot, Soetkin Collier, Philip Masure, and Michel Morvan.
In 2010, back slang was reported to have been adopted for the sake of privacy on foreign tennis courts by the young English players Laura Robson and Heather Watson.
"Centre de documentation et d'étude sur la langue internationale (CDELI)" [Esperanto Studies] (in Esperanto and French).
He (as he/she then is) is caged in "The Mask Factory", and his captors fear him much more than any of their other creations.
BCI is an international group of people who act as an authority regarding the standardization of the Blissymbolics language.
Early life Childhood Claude Vivier is believed to have been born on 14 April 1948 in the vicinity of Montréal, Québec, and was voluntarily placed in the orphanage of La Crèche Saint-Michel (no longer in operation) that same day by his mother.
When Dawn tries to pay for the lesson, Don stops her and reveals his intention: to con people out of their money by teaching them a fraudulent language.
Dalgarno was also interested in constructing what he called a 'philosophical language', now more usually referred to as universal language.
In an interview, Sotomayor stated that she aimed for Kēlen to be naturalistic apart from its verblessness, and that to achieve this she employs the principle "change one thing and keep everything else the same".
In addition to the above eight official members, Ralph Midgley, former governor (guvan) of Volapük, was also on the board of the Academy as a deputy prior to his death in 2024.
Languages of Almea described on the website include: Most words in those languages have etymologies, being derived from proto-languages (like Proto-Eastern above) by means of sound changes, and are given historical backgrounds, resulting in the presence of loan-words.
Higley in her book Hildegard of Bingen's Unknown Language: An edition, translation and discussion (Palgrave Macmillan 2007), The New Middle Ages ISBN 1-4039-7673-2, ISBN 978-1-4039-7673-4) where she discusses Lingua Ignota in the context of constructed languages up to the present day.
References Further reading "Provisional notes on cataloging in the A-ka-u-ku (Bamum) script, in the Shümom and Bamum languages | Yale University Library".
She has also written numerous short stories, about equally divided between fantasy and science fiction, which have appeared in various anthologies and collections over the last twenty years.
References External links Proposal for Encoding the Mwangwego Script, Unicode Article on designing a font for the script, Endangered Alphabets
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
To a far lesser, though still significant extent, Sorang Sompeng is learned, taught, read, and written for secular educational and literary purposes in Sora communities, primarily in the Indian states of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.
The features were based on 40 tokens of misunderstanding between speakers from Japan and Switzerland, and were intended as subject to further empirical testing and fine-tuning.
It has a small number of phonemes, so that regional "accents" are less likely to produce unintelligible speech.
meni "meni bibel" my books) tu (you, singular), te (you, singular/object), ten (your(s) singular; pl.
Sananmuunnos ("Word transformation"), sometimes kääntösana, is a sort of verbal play in the Finnish language, similar to spoonerisms in English.
Hupé suggests that synaesthetic colour experience lies not in the brain's colour system, but instead results from "a complex construction of meaning in the brain, involving not only perception, but language, memory and emotion".
This is similar to the traditional Chinese practice of representing sounds by two characters known as fanqie.
He was commissioned into the Royal Army Service Corps and was selected for the Airborne Company, where he worked as a brigade liaison.
The first drafts were published online in 2001, while the complete form was published in the 2014 book Toki Pona: The Language of Good (referred to as lipu pu in Toki Pona).
In 2011, Phillips launched the BiteyCastle Effects Academy (BCA FX), a subscription-based series of video tutorials teaching how to do 2D animated visual effects.
The circumstances of what exactly happened that night and early the following morning are still a matter of speculation, but Dolzan would later say that he accepted Vivier's invitation with the intention of robbing and killing him.
Then each of the fore-parents goes forth and brings back another ler of the appropriate gender, the "after-parents".
This effort brought him into contact with members of the Oxford Philosophical Club, one of the precursors of the Royal Society.
The untranslated texts of the Liber Loagaeth manuscript recall the patterns of glossolalia rather than true language.
Background and release "Heaven" was written by Andreas Schuller, Leroy Clampitt, Sebastian Barac, Marcel Botezan, Laila Samulesen, Trey Campbell and Theea Eliza Miculescu, while production was handled by Barac and Botezan.
Near the end of his life, Leibniz wrote that combining metaphysics with mathematics and science through a universal character would require creating what he called: ...
It uses 24 of the 26 letters of the ISO basic Latin alphabet, "w" and "y" are not used, and has three additional letters "œ", "ü" and "σ" which comes from the Greek alphabet.
For his US book tour, Tammet appeared on several television and radio talk shows and specials, including 60 Minutes and the Late Show with David Letterman.
Translation "Visiting by chance the 2nd World Congress of Esperanto in Geneva (in 1906), I became an Esperantist and took part there in the founding of the International Scientific Esperantist Association, of which I was elected secretary.
BSO failed to attract investment for a further development phase after 1990, and DLT was abandoned unfinished.
Jacobs and Hergé became close collaborators and greatly influenced each other, while together they developed the plot for the next Adventure of Tintin, The Seven Crystal Balls, which began serialisation in Le Soir in December 1943.
Dum mia laboro por la reformo de Esperanto mi ekzamenis ne nur la projekton Ido, sed ankaŭ la interlingvojn el la skolo "naturalisma" (Occidental, Latino sine flexione, ktp.).
Union for the International Language Ido (Ido: Uniono por la Linguo Internaciona Ido, ULI) is the official union of the Ido-language movement from 1910.
Esperanto II was one of several languages investigated by the International Auxiliary Language Association, the linguistic research body that eventually standardized and presented Interlingua de IALA.
Proposed subdivisions Historically, the term "North Slav" has been used in academia since at least the first half of the 19th century.
This is the variant most used in Brazilian Portuguese, while the others are more common in European Portuguese.
Additionally, Change involves a forced decrease in age of 10 to 20 years, limiting the number of Changes possible in a short period of time.
Appropriately, the very term sananmuunnos is one; it becomes munansaannos, which can be understood as "receiving/providing of sex".
Personal life Overview Vivier was best known among his friends and acquaintances for his extroverted personality, effeminate mannerisms, and distinctive laugh, described by some as being similar to the cackle of a hyena; or, "very loud and a bit creepy".
Yuantang is a subdialect spoken by Hakka speakers at Yuantang (Chinese: 苑塘), a village in southern China.
She vigorously denied the claims, and after an investigation later that year it was concluded that the accusations were exaggerated and based on outdated information.
for the West Slavic and East Slavic languages considered as a combined unit, particularly when contrasted to South Slavic languages.
It was designed to be an intuitive language: Karky said he used hard consonants and soft consonants depending on the nature of the words' meanings.
Background and history In its concultural setting, Kēlen is spoken by an alien species called the Kēleñi, for whom the language was created.
Pasigraphies are purely written languages without a spoken form, or with a spoken form left at the discretion of the reader; many of the 17th–18th century philosophical languages and auxlangs were pasigraphies.
Emphasizing that the quest for a perfect language has never been devoid of ideological motivation, Eco outlines some objections to the idea and suggests that an International Auxiliary Language, such as Esperanto, is a more realistic project.
“English as a global language – What do future teachers have to say?” In *Gnutzmann, Claus; Intemann, Frauke (eds.).
The term "Enochian" comes from Dee's assertion that the Biblical patriarch Enoch had been the last human (before Dee and Kelley) to know the language.
English has Pig Latin, with a similar morphological construction, moving the first consonant to the end of the word and following in with the suffix -ay.
This progresses to multiplication, division, variables, and constants, then propositional logic, set theory, and first-order logic.
The use of Lapine words is often (although not exclusively) used to indicate concepts unique to rabbits, such as silflay (aboveground grazing) or tharn (freezing behavior).
Léopold Leau (1868-1943) was a French mathematician, primarily known for his ties to international auxiliary languages.
As with Leibniz's calculus ratiocinator two different schools of philosophical thought have come to emphasise two different aspects that can be found in Leibniz's writing.
Books in this series so far are: The Levin-Gad (2018) The Landlady (2019) The Librarian (TBA) Star Trek Duane has also written a number of Star Trek novels: Original Series The Wounded Sky.
Gibson of the United States Army Coastal Artillery, which replaces words with numbers using the digits 0-9.
Lingua Franca Nova Boeree was also the inventor of the auxiliary language Lingua Franca Nova (ISO 639-3: lfn), which first appeared in 1998 on the Internet.
The Delegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary Language was founded on 7 January 1901 on Leau's initiative.
Some verlan words, which are now well incorporated in common French language, have taken on their own significance, or at least certain connotations that have changed their meaning.
The Zompist Bulletin Board The website has a corresponding bulletin board, formerly hosted with SpinnWebe but now with its own domain at www.verduria.org.
In 1921, he was able to travel to Persia; excited at his arrival, he wrote poems chronicling exciting events and the sights around him.
Esperanto has become "the most outlandishly successful invented language ever" and the most widely spoken constructed international auxiliary language.
ESF also sponsored the creation of the documentary film The Universal Language, and produced the video course Esperanto—Pasporto al la Tuta Mondo (available on YouTube).
Symbols representing a single adjective may be written inside or above the symbol for the preceding word that they modify.
The Pali alphabet, including the Ariyaka script, consists of 41 letters: 6 vowels 2 diphthongs 32 consonants 1 accessory nasal sound (niggahīta) Consonants are further classified into 25 mutes, 6 semivowels, 1 sibilant, and 1 aspirant, with vowels divided into long and short forms.
Other variations send the text through several languages before translating it back into the original or continue translating the text back and forth until it reaches equilibrium (i.e., the result of the back translation is identical to the text used for the forward translation).
Works on psychology Boeree was the author of the first online psychology texts, which he made available at no cost to students and other interested parties starting in 1997.
Modern statistic-based and context-based translation programs are able to produce a better translation.
By advocating a constructed international language, constructed along logical principles and with a vocabulary taken from existing European languages, Couturat was paralleling Peano's advocacy of Interlingua.
Such an origin is credited to two children — Ed "Squirrel" Clement and Lank McGimsey — who started making up words in the summer of 1890.
Names Names are written by enclosing multiple characters in a cartouche shaped like a rounded rectangle.
This promising hypothesis came to nothing because the system was too vulnerable to wind and weather.
Podaná (Greek: ποδανά) is a Greek argot based on rearranging syllables, similar to Verlan and Vesre.
As noted by Boleslas Gajewski: "one should take great care to pause after every word; this slight pause is necessary to separate the words, so that the listener does not become confused".
The fictional language Kiliki (also referred to as Kilikili) spoken by the Kalakeyas, a ferocious warrior tribe, was created by Madhan Karky for the film.
ELF and GEs, describing what people actually do when communicating [simple or not]; and "World Englishes", generally accounting for language features and commonalities by region/group, vs.
Prepositions, conjunctions and interjections are also formed from noun roots by appending appropriate suffixes.
In the year 1976 Weferling even published his autobiography Ek le vive de un oldi interlinguistiker (From the life of an old Interlinguist) in Intal.
sanan muunnos [sa-nan mu-ːnnos] → [mu-nan sa-ːnnos] → munan saannos If necessary, stilted diphthongs are converted into allowed diphthongs as per phonotactics.
Others Breckon, Colin Joseph, "Symbolism as a Written Language", pp.74–83 in Breckon, C.J., Graphic Symbolism, McGraw-Hill, Sydney), 1975.
Vocabulary Example words Numbers Numbers with values in both tens and ones are formed by combining ones number with tens number, and joining them with affix -un-.
Rosario has its "Rosarigasino" method for obfuscating words, and Córdoba has an entirely different set of colloquial conventions.
Martin's description of the language, as well as from such languages as Estonian, Inuktitut, Turkish, Russian, and Swahili.
𞓕 (/a/) + ◌𞓬 → 𞓕𞓬 (/ã/) Example 1: Mundari: 𞓝𞓟𞓕𞓬, IPA: /t̪uãː/ , Translation: Milk/Breast Example 2: Mundari: 𞓧𞓟𞓬 , IPA: /mũː/ , Translation: Nose Vowels preceding or following nasal phonemes like /ŋ/, /ɲ/, /ṇ/, /ɳ/ and /m/ are also nasalised.
Other languages Other languages have similar coded forms but reversing the order of syllables rather than phonemes.
McIntyre) Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Magazine (1988–2000) Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Worlds (1998) Spells of Wonder (1989) Sword and Sorceress series (1984–2013) (edited by Marion Zimmer Bradley, after her death by Elisabeth Waters and Diana L.
Because the resulting text can often differ substantially from the original, RTT can also be a source of entertainment.
Background Although Zamenhof's stated preference was to avoid any discussion of changes, he was put under considerable pressure, including financial, to respond to the diverse reforms proposed by others.
This set historically tends to overlap with taxonomic languages, though there is no inherent reason a pasigraphy needs to be taxonomic.
Mute English in South Korea From elementary school to high school, South Korean students spend about 730 hours on English classes at school alongside private tutoring and cram schools, online English classes and even going abroad to improve their English.
Publishing history Long poems 1910: “Snake Train” 1913: Prologue to the Futurist opera Victory over the Sun Plays 1912: The Little Devil Books 1912: Teacher and Student.
This was on the basis that the victorious powers of the war would better favour Bavaria in a new union state, rather than in a Prussian-dominated Germany.
The family was forced to flee to Vienna after the Imperial Russian Army occupied Czernowitz in 1916.
Zamenhof initially called his language "Lingvo internacia" (international language), but those who learned it began to call it Esperanto after his pseudonym, and this soon became the official name for the language.
was calling himself the Budetlyanin (a Russian pun, meaning 'a Future Living Being'), not a Futurist, and not accidentally that term was not held' ('...не случайно...
He is best known for his ideas surrounding Bavarian separatism, and for his series of Universal German languages, Wede.
He moved with his parents and brother to the United States in 1956 and grew up on Long Island, New York.
Life and career After doing his national service in the navy for two years, studying Russian as a coder (special), and commissioned as a midshipman, he returned to Cambridge as a PhD student in 1956.
It has been translated into Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, and German by fans, and came out in book form in March 2010.
Once Gary Gygax's attention had been drawn to Barker's work, it was decided that TSR would publish a revised version of the game mechanics along with a condensed version of his campaign setting.
The IANA Language Subtag Registry (for IETF's language tags defined in BCP 47) was updated on 29 July 2009 to include all ISO 639-3 and ISO 639-5 identifiers in use at that time.
Jean-François Sudre, also written Sudré (15 August 1787 – 3 October 1862), was a violinist, composer and music teacher who invented a musical language called la Langue musicale universelle or Solrésol.
For example, the city of Udine is called Udin in Friulian, the town of Tolmezzo is called Tumieç, the town of Aviano is called both Avian and Pleif.
Distributed Language Translation (Esperanto: Distribuita Lingvo-Tradukado, DLT) was a project to develop an interlingual machine translation system for twelve European languages.
The author concluded that RTT was a poor method of predicting the quality of machine translation software.
Latin and Greek (or Koine Greek) were the intermediary language of all areas of the Mediterranean; Akkadian, and then Aramaic, remained the common languages of a large part of Western Asia through several earlier empires.
N’Ko literacy was thus instrumental in shaping Maninka cultural identity in Guinea, and strengthened Manding identity in wider West Africa.
In April 2004, the basic version of the plan was announced as service streamed over the internet, that would broadcast a four-hour block in order to reach out to a wide international audience.
Rest and recuperation Orwell returned to England in June 1937, and stayed at the O'Shaughnessy home at Greenwich.
Leau studied at the École normal supérieure in Paris and received his doctorate there in April 1897.
She is best known for being the creator of Encantadia in 2005 and the succeeding related television series including the Encantadia 2016 reboot.
List of notable pidgins Many of these languages are commonly referred to by their speakers as "Pidgin".
Famous Grammelot also include Charlie Chaplin's faux-German in The Great Dictator and Monty Python's Knights Who Say Ni.
He was initially educated at St Ann's RC School, Stretford, before he won a scholarship to St Bede's College, Manchester, joining in September 1943.
The contemporary project for a politically and culturally unified Europe provides the perspective for a more serious consideration of the theme.
An inverted speech form similar to Totoiana also exists in the French language and is known as verlan (from l'envers, "the inverse", but inverted).
International Sign, though a pidgin language, is present at most significant international gatherings, from which interpretations of national sign languages are given, such as in LSF, ASL, BSL, Libras, or Auslan.
He has continued to do outside work as a freelance animator, writer and special effects designer for clients such as Kellogg's, BioWare San Francisco and Wizards of the Coast (Dungeons and Dragons).
Peano's language was sometimes called Interlingua, not to be confused with the better-known Interlingua presented in 1951 by the International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA).
As the Living Tongues Institute for Endangered languages tells us – roughly every two weeks a language dies”.
The Talossan language, also created by Madison in 1980, claims a vocabulary of 35 000 root words and 121 000 derived words – including fieschada ([fjeˈʃaðə]), meaning "love at first sight".
tai or ta, and similarly with formal vi, av(i), va(i); li "s/he", ali or al "he" and the masculine prefix, lai or la "she" and the feminine prefix, etc.
It has a phonology based on elementary melodic distinctions, and a simple lexicon and grammar inspired by pidgins.
Wikipedia There is also a Nko version of Wikipedia in existence since 26 November 2019, it contains 1,588 articles, with 12,799 edits and 5,831 users.
He was often considered to be not only one of the greatest science fiction authors, but one of the best American writers regardless of genre.
It was used mainly by market sellers, such as butchers and greengrocers, for private conversations behind their customers' backs and to pass off lower-quality goods to less-observant customers.
The Zompist Bulletin Board (often abbreviated ZBB) is an online forum created for the purpose of discussing conlangs, conworlds, and Mark Rosenfelder's own constructed world, Almea.
The Lingua Franca Core (LFC) is a selection of pronunciation features of the English language recommended as a basis in teaching of English as a lingua franca.
This led to schism, with much of the Academy abandoning Schleyer's Volapük in favor of Idiom Neutral and other new constructed language projects.
Khlebnikov died while a guest in the house of his friend Pyotr Miturich near Kresttsy, in June 1922.
Brown intended Loglan to be as culturally neutral as possible and metaphysically parsimonious, which means that obligatory categories are kept to a minimum.
In 1893, he was relocated to Bonthain (now Bantaeng in South Sulawesi); in 1896, to Padang and also to Aceh; in 1898, to Sintang, where he married for the second time, to Elise Marie Wilhelmine Gerardine Chavannes.
Furthermore, students in China are more used to a prescriptivist approach to their education and as a result may not be too receptive to the teaching methodology of native English speakers in explaining rules.
In his dissertation, Leau examined, among other things, the iteration behavior of holomorphic functions in the environment of a rationally indifferent fixed point.
The English grammar may hide the fact that the "beautiful" adjective translates the concept of "enjoying", a true verb, so a simpler Kalaba-X sentence would be better "Enjoy a lot, picture this, me." But the analysis does not stop there, because Kalaba-X features no pronouns, i.e.
Unamunda Unamunda itself is based on words in the English language, as well as German, Russian, and the Romance languages.
During his trial, he persisted in using Miller's language in his documents and oral arguments, despite being repeatedly ordered by the court to communicate in a comprehensible fashion.
Schleyer first published a sketch of Volapük in May 1879 in Sionsharfe, a Catholic poetry magazine of which he was editor.
However, French words that end in a ⟨e⟩ muet (such as femme [fam]) and words that end in a pronounced consonant (such as flic [flik]) gain the sound [œ] once reversed.
c is pronounced /ʃ/ (like English sh), g always hard (as in German), j as in French, and y and z as in English.
These first five systems are closely related: All were progressively simplified pictographic protowriting with logographic elements.
Under Israeli law, the organization that officially directs the development of Modern Hebrew is the Academy of the Hebrew Language, headquartered at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
As Finnish is a mora-divided language, it is morae that are exchanged, not syllables (often a mora is also a syllable in a Finnish word, but not always).
External links Desatir, or, Sacred writings of the ancient Persian prophets : in the original tongue ...
Nineteen days later, Arie reached the city of Batavia alone, and on the 25th, he decided to depart to his workshop in Makassar.
For example, names of people and places are used as modifiers of the common word for "person" and "place", e.g.
Língua dos Pês (Portuguese, P Language) is a language game spoken in Brazil and Portugal with Portuguese.
He also developed a strong interest in linguistics and historical literature, studying the mechanics of ancient Greek and Latin, which would later prove influential for his langue inventées.
Mwangwego continues to hold public lectures and exhibitions in academic institutions and teach the script.
It is most commonly employed in situations such as trade, or where both groups speak languages different from the language of the country in which they reside (but where there is no common language between the groups).
is a 'peer-reviewed international and multilingual journal devoted to the study of multilingualism and language policy', which has regularly items on Interlinguistics, like "Table of contents".
In addition, verlan often drops the final vowel sound after the word is inverted, so femme and flic become meuf ([mœf] – meufa in full form) and keuf ([kœf] – keufli in full form), respectively.
Development and dissemination The idea for a Malawian script came on November 10, 1977, in Paris, when Mwangwego discovered that there are various writing systems in the world, and thought that words meaning "to write" in Malawian languages were evidence that they once had a script of their own.
Some cultural critics praised the play, while others said (such as Sergey Yutkevich, who would later become a well-known Soviet screenwriter) it was very badly staged.
For example, the word darba (strike), of Arabic origin, is close to Russian "удар" (udar; strike), Chinese "打" (dǎ; to strike), and even marginally to English "strike" and Hindi "प्रहार" (prāhar).
These languages were created for chauvinistic purposes, specifically for the aim of implementing German as a lingua franca in post-World War One Europe.
The macron is a 'killer stroke' that deletes the vowel from a syllable and so forms consonants and NC clusters (/nd, ŋɡ/) that can be used for syllable codas.
Thus for Jespersen, progress towards communicative efficiency is anyway inevitable, but can also be assisted by language engineering.
An omnibus of the first four Rihannsu novels, containing minor tweaks for consistency and re-editing Swordhunt and Honor Blade into the originally-intended single novel.
𞓖 (/ɟ/) + 𞓕 (/a/) → 𞓖𞓕 (/ɟã/) Dipthongs Mundari frequently uses sequences where two or three vowels follow each other without an intervening consonant.
In addition to the various atlases and languages, there is also a wiki called the Almeopedia, which works as an encyclopedic reference.
The Standards Council of Canada then sponsored, on January 21, 1993, the registration of an encoded character set for use in ISO/IEC 2022, in the ISO-IR international registry of coded character sets.
El la 12 membroj de la komitato nur du estis lingvistoj, kaj nur 4 partoprenis; oni aldonis nomojn de anstataŭantoj aŭ novaj membroj sen rajtigo.
The main association to foster the use and development of Friulian is the Societât filologjiche furlane, founded in Gorizia in 1919.
Cornelis George Boeree (January 15, 1952 – January 5, 2021) was an American psychologist at Shippensburg University, who specialized in personality theory and the history of psychology.
For example, the English sentence "This picture is very beautiful." would be structured in Kalaba-X as if it were written "Beautiful very, picture this, me." where the subject (me) is explicitly given in Kalaba-X rather than being subjectively implied by the context.
Antonymic roots such as tarde for malfrue "late" and poke for malmulte "few" are used today in Esperanto poetry, though they resemble Ido and Esperanto may have acquired them from that language.
When speaking to other animals, the rabbits adopt a lingua franca known as "Hedgerow." However, in both examples given in the book (i.e.
Mishnaic attributive patterns are often used to create nouns, and Classical patterns are often used to create adjectives.
After her stint at Balintataw TV, she tried to write romantic novels and with the help of Lualhati Bautista, her work entitled Ako si Alex, Babae (I'm Alex, a Woman) was published by Anvil Publishing.
Active participle: amant loving Passive participle: amed loved The passive voice is formed with the verb esar to be and the passive participle: mi es amed I am loved, mi averio esed amed I would have been loved, etc.
The work of the preposition de "of, by, from" is divided up into several more specific prepositions.
The first published reference to it was in 1851, in Henry Mayhew's London Labour and the London Poor.
The script was created by the self-taught scholar and Sora activist Mangei Gomango in 1936 and is used primarily in religious contexts, akin to a liturgical language, in the rites of the Matar Banom (or Matharvanam) neo-animist religious movement of the Sora.
A joint committee of the House of Lords and House of Commons considered the petition, and rejected it in 1935.
Comprising the council is a mayor and 13 elected members, who are supported by a chief executive, as well as four general managers and approximately 175 field and inside staff.
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 95 votes to 91, with Liberal Party member John Gorton absent.
He was given the additional command responsibilities of the 12th Division and the Northern Territory Lines of Communications Area in December.
In 2018, the SA state government reduced the levy by an average of $150 per household, costing approximately $360 million.
Military commission On 24 July 1804 he was commissioned into the army as an ensign in the 64th Regiment of Foot, which was at that time stationed in the West Indies.
It was created by the Legislation Act 2003 incorporating the functions and responsibilities of the now-defunct ComLaw and Federal Register of Legislative Instruments.
But the Commonwealth government directly nominating and recommending a Governor-General occasioned a controversy, both in the press at home and in Buckingham Palace.
This list of Australian Government entities includes ministerial departments, principal entities, secondary entities, and other entities, which are grouped into a number of areas of portfolio responsibility.
It was the first time anyone had ever been called to the Bar of the lower house, and it was the only time the Parliament has ever jailed anyone.
The next day the Australians of 3 RAR took the lead in the advance, and C Company was the leading company.
In May 1879, she became a great-grandmother (on the birth of Princess Feodora of Saxe-Meiningen) and passed her "poor old 60th birthday".
Following a derailment event in December 2011, Oz Minerals elected to use the line to export to the south via Port Adelaide.
History The title refers to Sir Rupert Cross, who originally wrote the textbook in the United Kingdom in 1958.
The Royalist view interpreted the phrase as "King, in Parliament"; that is, the King acting with the consent of the Lords and Commons, but ultimately exercising his own sovereign authority.
History Under the Additional Members Act 1864, the seats of Clermont, Kennedy, Maryborough, Mitchell, Rockhampton and Warrego were created.
Anticipating a US withdrawal, the McMahon government announced an 'accelerated withdrawal' of Australian troops in Vietnam in July 1971.
In 2010, the APLC together with the states identified the potential for a significant infestation of the Australian plague locust.
Louis John Wienholt (1918–1973) was a senior Australian public servant, including as Secretary of the Department of Social Security in 1973.
Policy-making functions of the Commission were assumed by the Queensland Department of Energy and Water Supply and its planning and regulatory functions became the responsibility of Seqwater.
She has been a Labor member of the Western Australian Legislative Assembly since the 2021 state election, representing Mirrabooka from 2021 to 2025 and Girrawheen from 2025.
Another similar portrait of Philip by Dargie, which has been described as "a draft or copy of the City of Melbourne portrait", is part of the collection of Melbourne Legacy, a charitable organisation whose collection is part of the broader Victorian Collections.
Opponents of the move to make Australia a republic claim in response that Australia already has an Australian as head of state in the governor-general, who, since 1965, has invariably been an Australian citizen.
The Department of Family and Community Services (also known as FaCS) was an Australian government department that existed between October 1998 and January 2006.
McVeigh resigned after he was preselected as the LNP candidate for the federal division of Groom at the 2016 federal election.
He says that extremists misinterpret Islamic teachings such as the Quranic injunction, 'whoever kills an innocent person, it's as if he has killed all of mankind'.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, the Department's annual reports and on the Department's website.
The agency was responsible for setting water restriction policy and coordinating water infrastructure projects in the state.
From 1 July 2025, the corporation achieved the milestone of being powered by 100% renewable electricity and is on track to report net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the 2025-26 financial year, four years ahead of its government obligations.
On refusing Privatisation and Administrative Affairs she says that she was not willing to put up with a junior portfolio of "limited interest." This portfolio now renamed Privatisation and Administrative Services went instead to David Connolly.
The Taronga Conservation Society is a Government of New South Wales agency responsible for Taronga Zoo Sydney and the Taronga Western Plains Zoo in New South Wales, Australia.
It replaced the Department of National Development and inherited domestic resources and energy matters from the Department of Trade and Resources.
The seat of the consulate-general is located on Level 3 of ESA Sampoerna Center, Sukolilo, Surabaya, East Java.
On 28 September 2010, Wyatt attended the opening of the 43rd Australian Parliament to take up his seat as member for Hasluck.
He was further honoured with appointment as a Lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order in January 2014, for his services as Deputy Official Secretary to the Governor-General of Australia since 2009.
Arthur Herbert Evelyn Mattingley (1870–1950), noted Australian bird photographer and ornithologist, was a founding member of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union (RAOU) in 1901.
Upon arrival in Melbourne after the cessation of hostilities he was discharged from the Australian Imperial Force on 28 October 1919.
Defence minister Malcolm Fraser developed an uneasy relationship with Gorton and in early 1971, Fraser accused Gorton of being disloyal to him in a conflict with Army officials over progress in South Vietnam.
In 1822, Governor Macquarie returned from Australia and, after securing seven weeks' leave from his returned regiment, Watts went to visit the Macquaries, meeting them in Glasgow on 2 September 1822.
Awards Hayes was made an Officer of the Order of Australia in June 1992 for service to international organisations, and for his public service.
On 4 February 2004 the first passenger train arrived in Darwin from Adelaide, travelling 2979 km (1851 mi) in 47 hours.
See also Robodebt scheme List of Australian Commonwealth Government entities References External links Department of Social Services website
His next role was as Secretary of the Department of Industry, Tourism and Resources (later Department of Innovation, Industry, Science and Research), to which he was appointed by Prime Minister John Howard, who praised his knowledge and experience.
To South Korea Following the Korean War, South Korea was welcomed under the US "nuclear umbrella" after signing the ROK-US mutual security treaty on October 1, 1953.
For example, there was a specialist accreditation exam for Immigration law in 2018, you'll be expecting the next exam in 2020.
He was transferred to the 5th Divisional Signal Company in February 1917 and was promoted to lieutenant in April.
Life and career Hayes was appointed to the position of Secretary of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs starting in March 1982.
When the Australian Customs Service was established in 1985, splitting out from the Department of Industry, Technology and Commerce, Hayes was appointed its Comptroller-General.
These included the hours of sittings, a 20-minute limit on speeches, and a requirement that there be at least 4 hours of debate (or 12 speakers) before debate on any bill could be ended.
During his time as head of social security, Wienholt organized for his desk clerks to attend two-week courses in the slums of Melbourne and Sydney to "sensitise" them to the problems of departmental clients.
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was an Australian government department that existed between May 1982 and July 1987.
History Prior to July 2015, Norfolk Island was self-governed by the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly.
Structure The Department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Defence Production.
History In 1935 Para Wirra amalgamated with the District Council of Talunga to form the new and District Council of Gumeracha.
The announcement coincided with the revelation that the ADF was tracking a People's Liberation Army Navy flotilla in the Philippine Sea.
These meetings are chaired by the monarch or, if he is ill or abroad, crown prince (the monarch's heir).
The District Council of Para Wirra was a local government area of South Australia from 1854 to 1935, seated at Maidstone (later called Kersbrook).
It was based in the eastern suburbs of Launceston, Tasmania's second city, and the surrounding rural area.
In 2012, a new award for poetry was announced and the Prize for Australian History was incorporated.
From the late 1830s to 1945, the area surrounding Port Adelaide was subdivided into many small district areas as owners bought, subdivided and sold areas of land.
Hammat graduated from the University of Western Australia with a BA in politics and industrial relations and a MA in labor and industrial relations.
While both Europe and the US believe that data should flow freely, China has taken an opposing stance and has adopted data localization, but with stricter regulations.
Galvin joined the Australian Public Service in 1950, with a personnel cadetship that enabled him to obtain an arts degree from the University of Adelaide.
The 1865 Warrego colonial by-election was a by-election held on 25 March 1865 in the electoral district of Warrego for the Queensland Legislative Assembly.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual budget statements and in the department's annual reports.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the Department's annual report.
The policy of multiculturalism has tended to be implicitly anti-British, despite Australia's British colonial heritage and the large number of British immigrants to Australia after World War II.
Among other things, the department was tasked with developing price stabilization and marketing plans for many agricultural commodities, including wheat.
See also Henry Tax Review List of Australian Commonwealth Government entities References External links Official website
He was awarded the Centenary Medal in 2001 for service to Australian society through public service leadership.
The Department of Education and Science was an Australian government department that existed between December 1966 and December 1972.
The Act was repealed in 1908 by the Seat of Government Act 1908, which selected Canberra as the new site for the territory.
The chamber itself is designed to seat up to 172 members, with room to accommodate a total of 240 with temporary seating.
Engineering heritage award Both the old and new Parliament House received an Engineering Heritage National Marker from Engineers Australia as part of its Engineering Heritage Recognition Program.
She competed at the World Championships and Games for the Disabled in Assen, Netherlands winning a bronze medal in Women's 100m T1 and fourth in Women's 400m T4.
In his report, Walsh found that there was a lack of coordination in the government over the establishment of cryptography policy.
This page details numerous records and characteristics of individuals who have held the office of Prime Minister of Australia.
The Consulate-General of Australia in Surabaya was established in February 2017, and is the fourth diplomatic mission of Australia in Indonesia after Jakarta (1935), Denpasar (1981), and Makassar (2016).
A corridor of oak trees has been planted at this place by each Prime Minister of Australia since Federation or a close family member.
Nominations The six candidates in ballot paper order are as follows: Result References External links Electoral Commission Queensland: 2016 Toowoomba South By-Election ABC Elections: 2016 Toowoomba South by-election
A three-part docu-drama series, The People vs Robodebt, commissioned by the SBS TV network, was first broadcast in September 2025.
The Department of Northern Australia was an Australian government department that existed between June and December 1975.
Only after the release of her diary and letters did the extent of her political influence become known to the wider public.
He was one of six chief investigators on an Australian Research Council Linkage project studying the history of ANZAC Day.
The Department of Transport was an Australian government department that existed between December 1972 and May 1982.
In 2001, the Constitution of Queensland was amended to restore the office of lieutenant-governor in that state.
He moved to the Investment Banking Group in Macquarie in 2005 where he was Principal Adviser, Regulatory involved with Macquarie Group interests globally in regulated utilities and infrastructure.
Personal Deahnne Mary McIntyre was born with spina bifida on 9 June 1971 in Canberra as a twin into a family of six children.
The Forum brings the world’s leading experts together with the “practitioners” of government: elected officials, civil servants, and political operatives from many countries.
She went on to question humans' contribution to the warming of the planet, suggesting that "climate changes continually, and if we have got to do something about it we have got to learn to adapt".
She was the first person to win a gold medal for the Australian Capital Territory at the Pacific School Games, in which she participated in 1984 and 1988.
Demographic projections released by the Queensland Centre for Population Research in 2011 found that there is a 50 per cent likelihood of Australia's population being larger than 35 million by 2050.
In February 2011 he responded to Cardinal George Pell's scepticism and ignorance about climate change during a Senate Estimates hearing.
Battle of Kapyong PVA forces of the 118th Division attacked the Kapyong Valley, and pushed ROK and New Zealand troops into retreat.
The Royal Majesty was the commonly used term to refer to the supreme executive authority under the 1809 Instrument of Government, under which the monarch made all decisions of state in the presence of his Cabinet ministers.
Beveridge, who had commissioned the Wattle Queen portrait of Elizabeth II, donated this portrait of Philip to the City of Melbourne.
The District Council of Munno Mara West was a local government area of South Australia on the central Adelaide Plains from 1854 to 1933.
Margaret and Alastair Macfarlane, "John Watts: Australia's Forgotten Architect 1814–1819 and South Australia's Postmaster General 1841–1861." Bonnells Bay, NSW.
The Australian Honour Flag is a special Australian flag that was created by the Commonwealth Government in 1918, as a result of World War I.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Defence.
Hunter is an atheist, and contributed a chapter to the 2010 Australian Book of Atheism on the topic of "Parliament and Prayer".
Term in office William "Bill" McMahon became Prime Minister of Australia on 10 March 1971, at the age of 63.
Stuart Francis Harris (born 14 March 1931) is a retired Australian senior public servant and academic.
Release of the complete report was also covered by Hobart's Mercury, Melbourne's Sun-Herald, The Sydney Morning Herald, many Internet news sites and radio stations in Perth and Sydney.
As counsel who was refused leave to appear, my sense of outrage over Parliament's denial of due process and natural justice remains undimmed after a lapse of 40 years".
The painting is part of the Royal Collection but has been on permanent loan to the Parliament of Australia since 1957.
Together with new dams and desalination plants the Commission aimed to counter the worst effects of drought in Australia.
According to political historian Brian Carroll: [Gorton's] style was Presidential rather than Prime Ministerial.
In 1988, Hayes left his position at the Australian Customs Service to take up the post of Secretary-General of the Customs Cooperation Council in Brussels (now known as the World Customs Organization).
Originally titled Defence Linguist Magazine, the name was changed to its current name after running a competition in the first edition.
The electoral district of Cumberland was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
In 1989, Harris was one of the three chairs appointed to lead the Ecologically Sustainable Development Process, commissioned by the Hawke Government.
Status The rules are a template only; the actual laws are those legislated by each state and territory.
The Secretary of the Department was David Rosalky, until 2001 and then subsequently Mark Sullivan, until 2004 and then Jeff Harmer.
Synopsis In All for Australia, Blainey argues: For the sake of national unity, the typical nation practises discrimination against migrants on the basis of ethnicity.
At the department's creation the department was responsible for the administration of Commonwealth policy on agricultural production, including responsibility for export inspection services, fisheries development and whaling.
The Treasury provides advice and assists in the formulation and implementation of government taxation and retirement income policies and legislation as well as providing information on material changes to taxation revenue forecasts and projections.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1903 state election, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
As of December 2023, there are 1,334 government entities reportable to the Australian Government Organisations Register.
The Department of National Development and Energy was an Australian government department that existed between December 1979 and March 1983.
Ronaldson served as the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Centenary of ANZAC, and the Special Minister of State in the Abbott government from 2013 to 2015.
A member of the Cabinet is appointed to hold the position of Vice-President of the Executive Council to act as presiding officer of the Executive Council in the absence of the Governor-General, at no additional salary or allowance.
Orders-in-council may be used to implement secondary legislation, such as British statutory instruments.
Generally, an official of sub-cabinet rank, an administrator is appointed by the President of the United States with the consent of the United States Senate and assigned to run a specific US government agency.
The National Security Adviser was disbanded by Prime Minister Tony Abbott in 2013 and with their roles integrated into the Deputy Secretary of the National Security and International Policy Group within the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Posters containing the photos and the 'white badge of cruelty' were produced for hanging in museums and schools.
Ultimately, Petrov was accused by the Soviet Ambassador of several lapses in judgement that would have led to his imprisonment and probable execution upon his return to the Soviet Union.
Prior to ACT Self-Government in 1989, what is now the Jervis Bay Territory constituted part of the Australian Capital Territory.
In March 1996 the City of Port Adelaide merged with the City of Enfield to form the new City of Port Adelaide Enfield.
Consequently, legislation passed after UDI was "enacted by His Excellency the Officer Administering the Government, as the representative of the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Parliament of Rhodesia".
In practice, meetings will only be attended by a small number of Councillors rather than the full Cabinet.
The Criminal Justice Commission was responsible for significant research into the Queensland Police Service.
An example is the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which included language that prohibited data localization restrictions among participants, which was carried over to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership.
The longest service as an MP of a prime minister was Billy Hughes, who served from March 1901 until his death in October 1952, a total of 51 years.
In May 2016 the government handed down the 2016/17 federal budget which confirmed the final round of Australian aid cuts, $224 million or 7.4% of the Australian aid program.
Instead, immigration can be used to complement policy tools and urban design while reducing strain on infrastructure.
The Commissioner also has oversight of ASQA’s course accreditation process which accredits new courses to be nationally recognised, and ASQA’s regulatory reporting functions.
If the Governor-General is not in attendance, quorum is the vice-president and two serving ministers or assistant ministers.
Journalism Soutphommasane was a regular writer for The Australian newspaper, to which he contributed feature articles and the Ask the Philosopher column each Saturday.
The Register provides copies of all in force and superseded federal legislation, as well as legislative instruments, Regulations, Determinations, Notifiable Instruments and Administrative Arrangement Orders from 1901 onwards.
Some controversy existed over the 1893 election result, as a redistribution still awaiting royal assent had not been carried out due to the snap election and the sitting member and Speaker of the House, Nicholas John Brown, lost the seat to Don Urquhart, a Zeehan solicitor.
The Administrator of the British Indian Ocean Territory is the junior to a commissioner (Chagos Archipelago, notably Diego Garcia.
A paper that he read to the North Melbourne branch of the association on ‘The Discontent of the Working Classes’ came in for ‘severe criticism’ from radical members of the branch.
In 1981, Turner became a liaison officer for the Commonwealth heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) held in Melbourne, and in 1985 was appointed as director of the Alice Springs office of the DAA.
The Department of Primary Industry was an Australian government department that existed between January 1956 and June 1974.
The tallest prime minister is believed to be Gough Whitlam, who stood at around 6 feet 4 inches (194 cm) in height.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the department's annual reports.
He left the post in August 2018, and for his services was advanced to Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in the 2019 New Year Honours.
Other countries and stakeholders have protested against this Chinese strategy of restricting the free flow of data.
This and other criticisms of senators in the same article led Hughes and four of his colleagues to be banned from Parliament House for several months.
The agency's role was outlined in the Zoological Parks Board Act 1973 and Amendment Act 1992 and fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister for the Environment.
The donation happened around the time of the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, which was declared open by Philip.
On April 1, 1998, the CES was dissolved, and its remaining employment services were vested with ESRA.
During his time in the role, he accompanied Minister for Supply Allen Fairhall overseas visiting the United Kingdom and the United States on departmental business.
List of departmental secretaries The Secretary of the Department of Defence (SECDEF) is a senior public service officer and historically the appointees have not come from military service.
During his time in the House of Representatives, Ronaldson served as the Shadow Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation, Shadow Parliamentary Secretary to the Leader of the Opposition and Shadow Minister for Schools, Vocational Education and Training.
He was involved in a variety of campaigns in the LGBTQ community, including a successful move to have sexuality included as a grounds for discrimination in 1986.
Hunter co-sponsored the 2011 Marriage Equality Bill with Greens MLC Tammy Franks also supported by the Australian Marriage Equality under its then national convenor Alex Greenwich who became the first same-sex married parliamentarian in Australia and the NSW Legislative Assembly.
This facility is designed to divert approximately 55,000 tonnes of food waste from landfill annually and is expected to generate up to 39,000 kWh of electricity per day, enough to power more than 2,200 households.
In February 1997, before the Walsh Report was publicly released, the Australian Attorney-General's Department embargoed it and withheld the report from commercial sale.
The Statute of Westminster required the Dominion governments be consulted on matters relating to the succession.
Under Fahour's leadership, in 2015 Australia Post recorded its first full-year loss in over 30 years, with half-year profits down some 56 percent.
By-elections to fill the new seats were held on 1 February 1865 (Maryborough and Rockhampton), on 18 March 1865 (Clermont and Kennedy) and on 25 March 1865 (Mitchell and Warrego).
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh is an Australian portrait of Prince Philip, consort to Elizabeth II who reigned as Queen of Australia from 1952 to 2022.
At its creation, the department was responsible for the following: National energy policy, including planning and research into coal, oil and gas, uranium, solar energy and other forms of energy Radioactive waste management.
The National Security Adviser was tasked with Chairing the National Intelligence Coordination Committee alongside a raft of other national security leadership and advice functions.
Alice Springs to Darwin In 1983, the federal government announced its intention to extend the standard gauge line from Alice Springs to Darwin to complete the Adelaide–Darwin rail corridor.
At the time of the 2007–08 budget, the Government announced total aid of $3.2 billion and an expectation "to continue increasing development assistance, to $3.5 billion in 2008-09, $3.8 billion in 2009–10 and $4.3 billion in 2010–11".
He donated the land on which Jackson Park sits to the people of the Blue Mountains in 1933 for use as a public park.
Career In 1902, Broinowski joined the Commonwealth Public Service in Melbourne as a clerk with the Department of Defence, a position obtained via Prime Minister Edmund Barton who was a friend of his father.
The Parliament House Art Collection of over 6,000 works includes commissioned (and purchased) portraits of every prime minister, governor-general, president of the senate and speaker of the house, as well as other works of art significant to Australia.
The first edition of the rules was published on 19 October 1999 and was available for formal adoption by states and territories from December 1999.
The original wards at its inception had been East Adelaide and Hackney, Stepney and Maylands, Torrens, Payneham, Trinity, Norwood/Kent Town and Kensington.
SASES Rescue Challenges The biennial challenge is publicised on the news, and social media, where SES units within the state compete in a series of mock emergency rescues.
In his memoirs he wrote that he was so disillusioned by the outcome that he "saw myself as a failure and Parliament as something meaningless, just a 'front' for the dead democracy".
According to research conducted by the Development Policy Centre at ANU, Australia's declining aid expenditure puts it at odds with the aid budget trajectories that many other OECD countries are following.
These government agencies are classified by the Australian Government Organisations Register as either a non-corporate Commonwealth entity, a corporate Commonwealth entity, or a Commonwealth company.
To be led by a National Armaments Director, the organisation will be originally formed on 1 July 2026, later evolving to an independent autonomous agency a year thereafter.
Caucus Executive 1935-1937 The following were members of the ALP Caucus Executive from October 1, 1935 to October 29, 1937: John Curtin - Leader of the Opposition and Leader of the Labor Party Hon.
Under UN Supreme Commander, General Douglas MacArthur, UN forces were conducting a successful amphibious assault at Inchon and a breakout from the Pusan Perimeter on the southern tip of the Korean peninsula.
The City of Norwood Payneham & St Peters is a metropolitan local government area of South Australia.
The permanent head of the department was Allan O'Brien, initially based in Darwin and later based in Canberra.
In January 1999, the Australian Transport Council (comprising each of Australia's transport ministers) voted to approve the final draft Rules submitted by the National Road Transport Commission, the Commonwealth and all states and territories except Western Australia approved the rules.
His older brothers included Methodist missionary Rodger Page and Australian prime minister Sir Earle Page.
In addition, the three governments contributed about $26 million each, a total of $79 million in further funding to support the APTC directly, by way of mezzanine debt financing (subordinated debt), equity, and contingent equity.
In 1975, Harris moved to the Australian National University where he was appointed to the Chair of Resource Economics in the Centre for Resource and Environmental Studies (later renamed the Fenner School of Environment and Society).
The Department of Defence Production was an Australian government department that existed between May 1951 and April 1958.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for National Development and Energy, John Carrick.
He was then a Commonwealth Scholar and Jowett Senior Scholar at Balliol College of the University of Oxford where he completed a Master of Philosophy with distinction and a Doctor of Philosophy in political theory.
The site turned out to be unacceptable to the Government of New South Wales, due partly to its distance from Sydney and proximity to Victoria.
A departmental reshuffle in December 1984 saw him transitioning to become Secretary of the Department of Arts, Heritage and Environment.
The Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (also called DEWR) is an Australian government department formed on 1 July 2022.
He was a Queenslander who went into practice with his wife, Hilda Wienholt, in Red Hill, Queensland.
Andrew Peter Thomson (born 7 January 1961) is an Australian former politician who served as Minister for Sport and Tourism in the Howard government.
Notable contributors to the magazine have included Australian award-winning actor, Jack Thompson, AM, and the Australian Chief of the Defence Force, General Angus Campbell, AO, DSC.
He was appointed Secretary of the Department in July 1984, having acted in the role since February that year.
It had a single member during its existence, John Hope, who had previously represented the seat of Devonport and went on to represent the new Wilmot division.
He has previously been a political staffer for Bob Carr, a columnist with The Age and The Australian newspapers, a lecturer at Sydney and Monash Universities, and a research fellow with the Per Capita think tank.
Admitted to the Bar, Ronaldson practised as a barrister and solicitor in Ballarat before entering politics.
Yarning: The language and culture magazine, (formerly Defence Linguist Magazine) is an international quarterly magazine, published by the Australian Department of Defence.
On that episode, they called it "Correction Time." The first time it was known as "Listener Mail" was on January 8, 2009, an episode that was inspired by a listener's email.
The podcast covered a range of topics ranging from information overload and digital clutter, to sexting, and the eavesdropping capabilities of our gadgets.
Guest appearances The show has regularly interviewed and has guest appearances of business executives, founders, and celebrities.
After the change of format in 2022, with the exception of Apodaca's welcome the catchphrases have mostly been dropped, with Campbell deciding to save "Welcome Back Bucket" for special occasions.
In another video segment, Internet Roundup, Chuck and Josh highlighted a couple of posts found deep in the web that they found interesting, entreating or amusing.
In January 2022, the podcast changed formats to shift away from intentionally playing bad games, in part to improve the experience for guests and the hosts.
Around the same time, the people responsible for filming the shows, the Pixel Corps and their leader, Alex Lindsay became more involved with the show, with many also contributing.
A sponsorship deal with America Online was announced on July 4, 2005, following the server demand that resulted from the release of iTunes 4.9's built-in podcasting directory.
Her television acting credits include guest appearances on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Criminal Minds, The Bold and the Beautiful and The Vampire Diaries.
Designing with Web Standards reiterates many of the arguments made by the Web Standards Project to highlight the benefits of standards-compliant web design.
Leo Laporte (; born November 29, 1956) is the former host of The Tech Guy weekly radio show and founder of TWiT.tv, an Internet podcast network focusing on technology.
Career Jeffrey Zeldman briefly worked as a reporter for The Washington Post and ten years as an advertising copywriter before turning to web design in 1995.
As of January 2024, TED Radio Hour has earned 4 wins and 2 nominations, which includes: The Webby Awards 2018 Winner for Best Science and Education Podcasts (General Series).
Both Goldman and Dzotsi left the show in 2022 with the final episode released on June 23 of that year.
Aggregators have all three of the following characteristics: direct relationship with users; zero marginal costs for serving users; and demand-driven multi-sided networks with decreasing acquisition costs.
The talks (all of which have been previously recorded and released by TED) are supplemented by follow-up interviews with the speaker, original reporting and other segments that bring the ideas to life.
Windows Metafile controversy In January 2006, Steve Gibson accused Microsoft of intentionally putting a backdoor into the Windows Metafile processing code in Windows 2000 and Windows XP.
In later episodes the question would be posed by the merchant from Resident Evil 4, voiced by Campbell.
Speakers, in addition to offering informative content, must have made major contributions to web design or development in order to qualify to speak at the event.
Format Episodes generally consist of one-on-one interviews conducted by Bret Kugelmass, Jadwiga Najder, Olubunmi Olajide, or Naomi Senehi with guests who are experts in nuclear energy.
In May 2019, Recode was integrated into Vox Media's flagship website, Vox, becoming the column Recode by Vox.
Co-hosts include frequent collaborators Brian Ibbott from Coverville, Brian Dunaway from Comics Coast to Coast, and Randy Jordan (formerly of The Instance).
They began producing episodes for Wow in the World together and the podcast debuted on May 15, 2017.
The logo design originated from a traditional logic gate symbol of an "AND gate" turned on its side.
Bibliography Laporte has written technology-oriented books including: He has published a yearly series of technology almanacs: Laporte announced in October 2006 that he would not renew his contract with Que Publishing, and had retired from publishing books.
Endless Thread is a podcast from Boston-based WBUR, in partnership with Reddit, that focuses on stories relating to Reddit posts.
The full set is available via YouTube and the Internet Archive References External links Official website Ubuntu Podcast's channel on YouTube Archive of all episodes
In 2016, Zeldman's business association with Happy Cog ended, and he launched an independent design consultancy called Studio Zeldman.
Topics covered ranged from racism on Facebook, to a neuroscientist's view on information overload, to a piece by performance artist Marina Abramović which involved an audience sitting in total silence wearing noise-canceling headphones for 30 minutes before a live performance of J.S.
As the hosts encourage their audience to watch the material prior to the episode, they attempt to focus on items available via streaming media, primarily Netflix.
Most releases of the show were licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No-Derivatives licence, but shows released after December 2007 are under the Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported licence.
On March 6, 2023, Vox media announced that in order to make the various Vox sub brands less confusing to its readers, it was retiring Recode brand but would continue its mission to explain complex issues around technology to its readers under the unified Vox brand.
Julian Feeld has told Wired that QAnon is "a colorful expression of a broader and more worrying global trend towards 'information warfare' in the service of those seeking to consolidate capital and power".
Starting in November 2021, Thompson began hosting a weekly headline podcast entitled Plain English, part of The Ringer Podcast Network.
Ethics of XR Bye is an advocate for discourse around the ethics and moral dilemmas presented by VR and AR.
When Ezarik first moved to Los Angeles, she was managed by Richard Frias who also manages YouTube celebrities HappySlip and KevJumba, but according to a post on Ezarik's alternate Twitter account she was unmanaged and earned money by appearing at conferences and in online promotional spots.
Production For the first 40 episodes, Rhysider was responsible for all of the research, writing, narrating, editing, sound design, publishing, marketing, and logistics.
In a post explaining the move, he cited a desire for more editorial freedom and to write for himself after almost two decades at a single publication.
Later on, due to a passionate cult following, Rhysider was able to enlist the help of additional writers, researchers, editors, and graphic designers.
This includes science, intellectual property, venture capital, bioenterprise finance, bioenterprise law, strategic market insights, regulatory expertise, biostrategic media relations, bioethics, bioenterprise information systems, social policy and multinational expertise.
Tech News Today was the recipient of the 2012 International Academy of Web Television award for Best News Web Series.
In January 2014, Zeis was also named Editor-in-Chief of Smartwatch Fans, a fan site that was focused purely on smartwatches and wearable devices.
When Sites asked her to turn off her lifecasting equipment later in the interview, he noted that "at once the conversation seemed more relaxed and natural," and she discussed the difficulty of having people watching and publicly judging her all day.
In 2016, she was an advisor to Arnold Schwarzenegger on the reality competition series The New Celebrity Apprentice.
Meanwhile, Current Geek Weekly is a weekly discussion of geek culture stories and the companion podcast to the Current Geek podcasts still produced by Frogpants Studios.
Early life Jeffrey Zeldman was born on January 12, 1955, in Queens, New York, to the robotics engineer Maurice Zeldman and his wife Phyllis Sylvia Zeldman.
Sponsors of the network include Ford, Audible, Lantronix, Squarespace, Hulu, Rackspace, Hover, Carbonite, Stamps.com and more.
By June 2009, she had 590,000 Twitter followers, 94,000 subscribers to the iJustine YouTube channel, and 25,000 Facebook fans.
Launched in October 2017, episodes average around 30 minutes to an hour, each covering a single topic through original interviews, audio footage, and Rhysider's narration.
LugRadio was a British podcast on the topic of Linux and events in the free and open source software communities, as well as coverage of technology, digital rights and politics.
Photocastnetwork The podcast is also the flagship show of the Photocast Network, a community of podcasters producing content related to photography.
In 2008, Laporte did a voice narration of Andrew Lang's fable The True History of Little Golden-hood from Audible (Amazon), a sponsor.
In a variation on this segment called "Sports, Sports, Sports", Blumberg instead explains sports-related tweets to Vogt and Goldman.
During the first few years TWiT episodes were made available in a variety of file formats for individual download or RSS subscription.
In September 2008, Revision3 started Revision3 Beta, a "talent-farming" sub-network of unofficial shows headed by Martin Sargent.
Format and distribution Waveform episodes are typically released on a weekly schedule and range from approximately 45 to 130 minutes in length, with monthly bonus episodes.
Wow in the World is a children's podcast hosted by children's media and audio veterans Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas.
Thomas Andrew Merritt (born June 28, 1970) is an American technology journalist, writer, and broadcaster best known as the host of several podcasts.
The change was marked by the omission of NPR's name in the show's opening audio sequence after the tagline, "You're listening to Radiolab...from WNYC." Horne left RadioLab in 2015, and Krulwich retired as co-host in February 2020.
Production Linux Outlaws was recorded simultaneously by the presenters in their respective homes – Hanover and Merseyside, England – and published in both the Ogg Vorbis and MP3 formats.
The show was based in the United Kingdom, and had a community forum as well as multiple social network accounts dedicated to fostering inter-communication among fans.
The podcast initially launched as an audio-only show distributed on platforms including Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.
On April 21, 2008, on the 47th episode of Systm, it was announced that Chief Engineer and co-host David Randolph had left for another job outside of Revision3.
TED Radio Hour is a weekly, hour-long radio program and podcast, produced as a co-production between TED (conference) and National Public Radio.
Producers In addition to Nora Young, producers included Michelle Parise, Adam Killick, Kent Hoffman Dan Misener, Elizabeth Bowie and Carma Jolly.
I've been converted." In 1985, following Steve Jobs leaving Apple, Dvorak wrote, "Maybe when the smoke clears, we will have heard the last of Steve Jobs as guru, seer, visionary and hapless victim too ...
Though the audio production company Defacto Sound, which is owned by Taylor, is the production headquarters for Twenty Thousand Hertz, he has said that the podcast is not intended as content marketing.
Episodes typically include discussion of recent technology news, analysis of consumer electronics products, and recurring segments such as trivia games or typing challenges at the end of episodes.
The name was inspired by the audience communicating to Zomorodi that they listen to the show because they are interested in the "purposeful use of technology." Zomorodi released a book entitled "Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self" with St.
Radio and television From December 1977 to May 1998, Laporte hosted newstalk and interview shows on KGO, KSFO, and KNBR in San Francisco.
Following the August 6, 2009, Twitter Denial-of-service attack Ezarik was featured in The Wall Street Journal describing her coping mechanisms, such as repeatedly tapping the F5 function key (the refresh button), for Twitter outages.
An annual segment, Email Debt Forgiveness Day, created an annual holiday on April 30 inviting listeners to send responses to old emails no matter how overdue.
LugRadio Live LugRadio Live was an annual event organised by the LugRadio team and held in Wolverhampton.
On Tech Nation, Gunn's focus has always been on the societal impact of technology and science, understanding the nature of innovation, and giving everyday listeners a sense of how to deal with the technological tsunami around them.
Annie Kelly acts as the podcast's United Kingdom correspondent and joined the podcast as the conspiracy theory spread from the United States to other countries, such as when it was accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Diggnation (rebooted) has also featured special guests: Episode 3: Glenn McElhose Episode 11: Jason Calacanis, Chris Sacca, Tim Ferriss, and Alexis Ohanian Episode 13: Doctor Tiki and Lala of Tiki Bar TV Episode 14: Digg Advisor Jayci Hayes Awards 2006: Podcast Award for best technology podcast.
On May 18, 2022, it was announced that hosts Dzotsi and Goldman were leaving the show and the current iteration of Reply All would end on June 23, 2022.
A number of episodes of the parallel BBC radio documentary series 30 Animals That Made Us Smarter were included as bonuses in the podcast feed of early episodes of series 2.
The Atlantic included the episode "Shine on, You Crazy Goldman" on their list of "The 50 Best Podcast Episodes of 2015".
Guests have included professors, business executives, politicians, diplomats, scientists, and others.
The series has Ezarik and Nguyen getting lost in various locales and solving their problems using AT&T equipment.
Usually there were three in-depth stories, each of which was separated by a clip of Creative Commons licensed music.
History The program began when Laporte recorded a one-off round-table discussion between himself, Patrick Norton, Sarah Norton, Kevin Rose, David Prager, and Roger Chang at the 2005 Macworld Expo in San Francisco.
Previous regular presenters were Matthew Revell (Seasons 1 – 4), Adrian Bradshaw (Seasons 2 – 4) and Stephen Parkes (Season 1, and the first few shows of Season 2).
In 2006, LugRadio won the award for Best Marketing Campaign at the UK Linux and Open Source Awards in London and won the award for Best Linux Podcast in the Christmas 2007 edition of Linux Format magazine.
Background In 2014, Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas had a Twitter exchanged that led to some collaborations.
It airs on the National Public Radio "NPR Now" channel at SiriusXM 122, public radio stations both nationally and internationally, and the Internet in a number of podcast syndication outlets podcast.
Throughout high school, Denson was a member of the marching band, and participated on the swim team, track, cross country, and golf.
Harford explained in a BBC interview in 2017 that his motivation for creating the show was "to paint a picture of economic change by telling the stories of the ideas, people, and tools that had far-reaching consequences".
Its books are designed to be quick reads and treat advanced topics in web design with a strong point of view.
The nomination cited its unusual social media presence, including an event where the hosts accepted phone calls from listeners for 48 hours straight.
The process of starting their company is documented in the podcast ZigZag, which is also their first production.
References External links Official website Leo Laporte at IMDb Leo Laporte in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
The scopes of the two sites were not expected to overlap with Recode's emphasis on technology industry business and The Verge's on "being a new kind of culture publication".
In 2007, Mevio hired Dvorak as vice president and Managing Editor for a new Mevio TECH channel, where he manages content from existing Mevio tech programming.
In 2019, the podcast was named the best podcast of the year by Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant and the sixth best podcast of the year by The New Yorker.
It was picked up by Business Insider, The Huffington Post, CNN, Heise, and a televised CNBC discussion segment, among others.
He appeared on Marketwatch TV and This Week in Tech, a podcast audio and now video program hosted by Leo Laporte and featuring other former TechTV personalities such as Patrick Norton, Kevin Rose, and Robert Heron.
More recently, he has hosted two podcasts: Neutral and the Accidental Tech Podcast, with John Siracusa and Casey Liss.
As of January 2023, Radiolab has earned 13 podcast industry award nominations, including 7 wins, including the 2013 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Science and Medicine Podcast and the 2015 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Produced Podcast.
The one-on-one discussions typically revolve around nuclear energy and related topics including political policy, climate change, and nuclear medicine.
Gunn was awarded the Public Service Award to the Individual by the National Science Board, for her contributions to the public understanding of science and engineering.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Boiling Point, which he later narrated as an audiobook, describes a near future United States civil war.
In July 2014 he returned to The Verge as editor-in-chief, after Joshua Topolsky left the position to work at Bloomberg.
In July 2021, Friedberg announced that The Production Board raised $300 million from Alphabet, Baillie Gifford, Allen & Co., BlackRock, Koch Disruptive Technologies and Morgan Stanley's Counterpoint Global.
Additionally, upwards of 80 percent of listeners reported that the program's pace was exciting, and over 80 percent reported that the layering of interviews was engaging.
Vox Media acquired the website in May 2015 in a move that The New York Times described as a reflection of tumult in online technology journalism.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
At the Berkman Center for Internet & Society he leads ProjectVRM, which guides independent software development communities working on Vendor Relationship Management (VRM).
The program was formerly known as Call for Help when it was recorded in the US and Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Originally started on July 7, 2009, Fourcast had Merritt and Johnson inviting guests to discuss the future and what it might contain in a so-called virtual fireside setting.
Other early guests in 2018 included eventual Assistant Secretary of Energy for Nuclear Energy and head of the Office of Nuclear Energy, Rita Baranwal, and individuals associated with both the Idaho National Laboratory and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
As of May 22, 2017, she was working for Microsoft as a Senior Cloud Developer Advocate where she, among other things, hosted This Week in Channel 9.
Each episode was originally broadcast on BBC World Service, with a subsequent broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and distribution as a BBC podcast.
The show attracted about five hundred Linux enthusiasts from many countries around the world with several travelling from as far as Europe and Australia.
Journalism Zeis graduated West Morris Mendham High School in 1997 and attended Fairleigh Dickinson University with a major in Computer Science.
Reception Charlotte Hilton Andersen wrote in Reader's Digest that the hosts "have a knack for picking science stories that kids will find fascinating".
As part of the Mobile Nations network, Smartwatch Fans was the first non-mobile site under the Mobile Nations name.
Christina Warren (born November 12, 1982), is an American developer advocate, podcaster, and writer.
Lawyers from TWiT believed this violated a spoken agreement between Leo Laporte and Twitter co-founder Evan Williams made in 2009, and infringed on TWiT's trademark.
Design agency In 1999, Zeldman founded Happy Cog, a web and interaction design studio specializing in user-and content-focused, standards-compliant design.
Rich DeMuro later appeared on the show to announce that he would take over in January with a weekly show, recorded on Saturdays, called "Rich On Tech." Laporte appeared on Friday mornings on KFI with Bill Handel, and previously on such shows as Showbiz Tonight, Live with Kelly, and World News Now.
Podcasting Zeis is best known for his hosting role on the CrackBerry.com podcast alongside Kevin Michaluk and Chris (Bla1ze) Parsons.
Discussions revolve around nuclear power as an alternative and potentially carbon-negative energy source.
The Book (Prentice Hall PTR, October, 2003) with co-authors Wendy Taylor and Chris Pirillo and his latest e-book is Inside Track 2013.
Vogt and Alex Goldman, who were the show's original hosts; they had previously hosted the technology and culture podcast TLDR for WNYC.
Episodes of Twenty Thousand Hertz have also been featured on the Radiotopia productions 99% Invisible and The Allusionist.
The podcast and its guests are broadly proponents of the proliferation of nuclear energy, but some guests have taken an opposing position.
Ezarik signed with the William Morris Endeavor in July 2017, and she was named one of the top 10 Top Tech/Business Influencers by Forbes for 2017.
On February 23, 2014, before recording TWiT 446, Laporte stated that episode bandwidth for the entire network is around 950 terabytes per month.
His byline has also appeared in many other publications, including OMNI, Wired, PC Magazine, The Standard, The Sun Magazine, Upside, Release 1.0 and The Globe and Mail.
The third, "The Anti-Social Century," published in the magazine's February 2025 issue, points out that Americans are spending more time alone than ever before.
Laporte hosted the daily television show The Lab with Leo Laporte, recorded in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
After their initial funding fell through, Zomorodi and Poyant partnered with Civil, a marketplace that used blockchain technology to distribute news but Civil shut down in 2020.
It is co-hosted by Travis View (real name: Logan Strain), Julian Feeld, and Jake Rockatansky, alongside Annie Kelly (British correspondent), Liv Agar (Canadian correspondent), Brad Abrahams (Inner Earth correspondent), and Allie Mezei (QAA Legal Analyst).
Laporte had been a midday, general-interest radio host until the increasing popularity of Rush Limbaugh, after which he created and co-hosted the tech talk radio show On Computers from January 1991 to July 1994.
Among Searls' contributions to the Manifesto was its first thesis, "Markets are conversations"—also the title of the Cluetrain chapter he co-wrote with David Weinberger.
Crossovers and appearances Rhysider has made appearances on a variety of other programs, the most notable being Snap Judgment and the Lit Hub/Podglomerate Storybound.
People's Choice Podcast Awards 2018 People's Voice Award Winner for Best Science and Education Podcast.
Instead, I looked back at what I wrote with regret, guilt, and embarrassment." Arment expressed remorse for adding to the fear of imminent doom that regularly surrounds Apple instead of the more gradual decline in quality and constructive criticism he intended.
The first book in the series was titled Wow in the World: The How and Wow of The Human Body and the second was titled Wow in the Wild: The Amazing World of Animals.
Early life Justine Ezarik was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the oldest daughter of Michelle Ezarik, a physical education teacher, and Steve Ezarik, a coal miner of Slovak descent.
Note to Self was a podcast hosted by Manoush Zomorodi that focused on the impacts of technology on everyday life.
which debuted on May 17, 2017 and produced by Tinkercast, LLC, a company established by Thomas and Raz to produce children's audio., and distributed by Wondery.
Innovation Crush podcast In 2013, Denson launched Innovation Crush, an interview series focused on the lives and projects of some of the world's most influential innovators.
Denson attended Michigan State University, where he earned a degree in packaging engineering and was a member of the school's martial arts team.
In September 2025, TBPN hired former Postmates and HQ Trivia executive Dylan Abruscato as President.
On September 16, 2015, Arment released Peace, a Safari content blocker for iOS 9 using the Ghostery database.
Career After a brief stint as an engineer at Daimler-Chrysler, Denson moved to Los Angeles to pursue the entertainment industry full-time.
LugRadio Live UK 2008 took place on the weekend of 19 July 2008 at the Light House Media Centre in Wolverhampton.
Nilay Patel () is an American editor and blogger who has been editor-in-chief of technology news website The Verge since 2014.
In high school he led the environmental club "Students H.O.P.E." (Students Healing Our Planet Earth).
Both Dan and Fabian are described as "down to earth, normal, everyday people" by listeners and reviewers alike.
Early life Denson was born in Detroit, Michigan to Christine Denson, a school teacher, and John Denson, a theologian.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
In 2015, a virtual reality blog called Road to VR started to syndicate all future episodes of the Voices of VR podcast on their website.
Episode 27 ("Chartbreakers") was highlighted for its investigation into the manipulation of the Apple Podcasts Top Charts through a vast industry termed as "dark podcast marketing".
Patel coined the term "Google Zero" to criticize the direction of search engines like Google Search integrating LLM tools like AI Overviews, which scrape media outlets for content and reduce click-through web traffic.
Awards and recognition Zomorodi has won numerous journalism awards including the New York Press Club Award for Journalism.
She stated that she did not intend to broadcast what she considers private moments, noting "That shouldn't be a problem.
Education In 2003, Patel earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from the University of Chicago.
The new deal also allowed Laporte to solicit his traditional TWiT advertisers to sponsor the podcast feeds, while retaining his advertisers for the radio version.
He also hosts Top Four with his wife Tiffany Arment and Under the Radar with David Smith, both on Relay FM.
Adam Zeis is an American writer and podcaster born in Morristown, New Jersey, on November 14, 1978, who currently serves as the Managing Editor of The Streamable.
The show current only has a modest live general viewership though it's is reported to be influential with Technology and Venture capital insiders.
The show was financed by its hosts and is recorded in Thomas's basement studio in Fairfax, Virginia.
Tips from the Top Floor is a podcast which presents tips and tricks about photography, mainly digital photography, in episodes normally ranging from 5 to 15 minutes in length and covering topics from image composition to post processing.
These consist of humorous 60 second videos where Clark and Bryant converse about subjects they covered on previous podcasts while doing a variety of random activities (playing checkers, getting fitted for a suit, going to a doctor, driving through a car wash).
Davies of The Guardian called it "perhaps the best-ever episode of any podcast" and "an incredibly emotive piece of storytelling." See also Internet culture List of technology podcasts References External links Official website
The Amazon-owned podcast network Wondery agreed to distribute the Tinkercast assets in September the same year.
In 2011, This Week in Tech was named "Best Technology Podcast", and TWiT Photo was named "Best New Technology Podcast" by iTunes Rewind.
Guest presenters on the show include Andy Piper, Anton Piatek, Dan Kermac, Emma Marshall, Joe Ressington, Joey Sneddon, Jon Spriggs, Laura Czajkowski, Paul Tansom and Stuart Langridge.
In addition to these regular shows, Merritt hosted live breaking news coverage of major technology events on TWiT's live stream such as WWDC, Google I/O and the resignation and death of Steve Jobs.
She is perhaps best known as the host of the public radio program Tech Nation, its regular segment BioTech Nation, as well as the weekly tech-sci commentary, Five Minutes.
2009: Streamy Award for Best Hosted Web Series (nomination) 2010: Streamy Award for Best Hosted Web Series (won) Other shows A spin-off show, The Digg Reel ran from January 2008 to September 2010, and was originally hosted by Jessica Corbin, followed by Andrew Bancroft.
aggregators such as Google and Facebook) come to dominate the industries in which they compete in a systematic and predictable way.
The content of the podcast was a combination of facts and research as well as real life experiences and personal stories.
The Production Board In 2016 Friedberg began speaking with Larry Page about building and financing startups focused on food, agriculture, decarbonization, and life sciences.
A longtime advocate for open-source software, he has been involved with the Linux Journal since it began publishing in 1994.
In December 2020, Titans of Nuclear conducted a miniseries of interviews with individuals from the United States Department of Energy's Gateway for Accelerated Innovation in Nuclear (GAIN) program.
Jordi Hays founded Branded Native, a YouTube advertising company, as well as a fintech company called Capital (formerly called Party Round) with his wife, Sarah Chase Hays and led the company to its acquisition by Rho Technologies in August 2023.
Thompson contends that this surge in solitude is fundamentally reshaping personalities, politics, and culture, noting that people are increasingly opting for solitude even when it doesn't make them happier.
Format Each episode varies in format, with some recurring segments, including "Yes, Yes, No" which debuted in episode 10, in which Vogt and Goldman explain internet trivia to Alex Blumberg, co-founder of Gimlet Media, with occasional help from outside guests.
These included a standard 64 kbit/s MP3, a low-bandwidth 16 kbit/s MP3, Advanced Audio Coding (AAC), and open source Ogg Vorbis.
The podcast covers their attempts to obtain funding for their company, ideas for new projects, and discussions by both co-founders about the financial risk they were taking, and the effect of running the startup on their personal lives.
Aggregation theory Thompson is a proponent of aggregation theory, which describes how platforms (i.e.
(The MicroTimes column ran under the banner Dvorak's Last Column.) He has written for The New York Times, Los Angeles Times, MacMania Networks, International Herald Tribune, The San Francisco Examiner and The Philadelphia Inquirer, among numerous other publications.
Friedberg joined Monsanto's Executive Team after the acquisition and in 2016 shifted to an advisory role.
Each episode of the TED Radio Hour is one hour long, and explores a theme — such as happiness, crowd-sourcing innovation or power shifts — through three to four related TED Talks.
She later co-hosted the Buzz Out Loud podcast, "The Buzz Report", a web-based news show, and Always On, a talk show.
The book was published in November 2020 and covers a wide range of topics including history, psychology, pop culture, and science.
The pair met at Wolverhampton Linux User Group and it was agreed that Stuart Langridge and Stephen Parkes would complete the line-up.
The podcast won the 2015 Academy of Podcasters Awards in the category "Technology." In 2017, it was announced that director Richard Linklater would direct a movie about American quack physician John R.
The podcast focuses on consumer electronics news, industry trends, and discussions related to videos published on Brownlee's YouTube channel.
It is produced in English and hosted by Chris Marquardt, a photographer, sound professional, musician and media producer.
The series aired on G4 Canada, on the HOW TO Channel in Australia, on several of Canada's Citytv affiliates, and on Google Video.
On November 22, 2021, the show did a special episode discussing the importance of the COVID-19 vaccine.
Reception Waveform has ranked among the top technology podcasts on platforms such as Apple Podcasts.
In several episodes, Laporte has noted that the distributed nature of BitTorrent makes it impossible to accurately gauge the popularity of the show, decreasing the likelihood of attracting advertisers.
Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic enshrines freedom of worship, thereby making any discrimination based on religion punishable by law, and obligating the government to ensure the protection of this freedom.
Formal limitations Belgium has prohibited the wearing of niqab and other face-covering garments in public, officially due to the state’s claim of the importance of “living together”.
Restrictions on religious freedom Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
During a hearing on 12 August 2004, in the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal, Watts said that after the press release, she suffered vandalism to her property and an assault at her home, in addition to general "hatred, contempt and revulsion".
See also Act of Uniformity 1549 Religious persecution Christian debate on persecution and toleration Theocracy == References ==
In 305, Diocletian abdicated and was replaced by Galerius, his successor, who continued persecution in the East until 311, when he granted Christians forgiveness, freedom of worship and (implicitly) the status of religio licita.
See also References Bibliography Benn, Tony; Hood, Andrew (1993), Winstone, Ruth (ed.), Common Sense, Hutchinson, ISBN 0-09-177308-3 Goodwin, Stephen (12 December 1992).
She also complained of breach of her right to a family life under Art.8, because she was bound to work some Sundays, and her husband did not.
14307/88) is a landmark case of the European Court of Human Rights, decided in 1993 and concerning compatibility of certain sanctions for proselytism with Articles 7 and 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Opposition Bishop Rudigier of Linz became known for his memorable struggle against the laws, which were hostile to the Church and against to the marriage and school laws.
European Court of Human Rights Lautsi then appealed to the European Court of Human Rights on 27 July 2006.
The Bill was passed during the premiership of The Duke of Wellington six years later for the Catholics of Ireland and Britain — without a veto.
The law ensured that citizens could use their tax dollars to support the church of their choice, not just the one officially sponsored by their community.
The Interconfessional laws were a series of 19th-century laws in Austria that were meant to install a government based on separation of church and state and passed on 25 May 1868.
All religious groups must obtain permits from the national Ministry of Guidance and Social Endowments, the state Ministry of Construction and Planning, and the local planning office before constructing new houses of worship.
Attitude towards Jews and Judaism Rhetoric by Palestinian militant groups include expressions of anti-Semitism.
Juridical personality allows a religious group to apply for all tax benefits available to nonprofit organizations.
The Shouwang Church (守望教会) is a Protestant house church in Beijing, China, and almost the biggest of about 3,000 of such congregations in the city.
The agreement between representatives of both sides, reached after meeting from 13 March to 20 March, declared the agreement from the Basel Council the basic law of the land.
In Sarajevo, Tuzla, Travnik, Zepce, Banja Luka, Bihac, and Zenica, students may attend Catholic school centers.
Other politicians in the Lok Sabha at New Delhi, and the Minister of State for Law condemned the Petition.
Every individual has the right to freely profess his/her religion and to disseminate it individually or collectively.
In September 2022, a 26-year-old man was arrested and charged under Uttar Pradesh's anti-conversion law.
The First Amendment to the United States Constitution was one of the first legal protections for freedom of religion without reference to any specific religion.
The Uttar Pradesh district court convicted him, sentenced him to five years of imprisonment and gave him a ₹40,000 fine.
Followers of other faiths shall be free within the bounds of law in the exercise and performance of their religious rights.
In 2007, the United States Department of State released a study of the state of religious freedom in the Palestinian territories as part of its annual international study.
Office of Public Policy The Office of Public Policy (OPP) is the Washington, D.C., political arm of the Center for Inquiry.
The Government imposed no formal restrictions on religious groups, and all religious communities were free to conduct public services and to open and operate social and charitable institutions.
Following months of debate a last-minute concession was offered—the Muslim and Jewish communities would have a year to provide evidence that animals slaughtered by traditional methods do not experience greater pain than those that are stunned before they are killed.
Members of minority religious groups are concentrated in the largest cities, including Asunción, Ciudad del Este, and Encarnación.
Swastikas and other Nazi symbols were painted on monuments, and many tombstones were damaged beyond repair.
For instance, the Taiwan Council for Religion and Peace, the China Religious Believers Association, and the Taiwan Religious Association are private organizations that promote greater understanding and tolerance among adherents of different religions.
During the wait, the following is forbidden: public worship services, distribution of literature and materials, the hiring of foreign clergy.
Religious freedom The Constitution of Uruguay provides for the freedom of religion and states that "the State supports no religion".
Recognized religious communities also continued to receive in-kind assistance, such as property on which to build houses of worship, from other government ministries and from local governments.
After the decentralization of the post-Carolingian period, this became the slogan of the Catholic Church in light of disapproval over lay warlords installing themselves as abbots and other high-profile churchmen.
In the 1850s, moves to increased religious toleration included the Liberty of Religious Worship Act 1855 and the Jews Relief Act 1858.
They requested permission from the Captains Regent to take the oath required by the Elections Act without reference to any religious text.
The National Assembly, the Council of States, and the Cabinet feature both Muslims and Christians in prominent roles.
In February 2007 the SPC filed a lawsuit in the Supreme Court over excessively lengthy legal procedures, largely because its earlier lawsuit against the alleged wrongful privatization of the cinema property had been pending before the Administrative Court for 3 years.
Additionally, similar practices (such as having citizens identify their religious preference to the government or on identification cards) can have different consequences depending on other sociopolitical circumstances specific to the countries in question.
Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides a right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework Freedom of religion is significantly restricted.
Roman Catholic and non-denominational Christian churches have been established in Nouakchott, Atar, Zouerate, Nouadhibou, and Rosso.
Various other reforms were proposed along liberal lines, such as a single age of consent, abolition of blasphemy laws, and equal rights in law for homosexuals.
The Jewish community responded to these objections by assuring the public that the method was in fact humane.
A collection of the public general statutes passed in the 22nd year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria.
The registration issue has political as well as religious overtones, since it raises the question of whether the Orthodox Church should be oriented toward the Moscow Patriarchate or the Bucharest Patriarchate.
This agreement finished a long series of religious conflicts in the Czech lands and constituted a definitive end to the Hussite Wars.
Constitutional scholar George Williams, writing in 1994, criticised the court's literal interpretation of the provision and others in the Constitution, saying the court has "transformed the Constitution into a wasteland of civil liberties".
During the ongoing conflict over the anticlerical articles of the 1917 constitution, they systematically destroyed church buildings.
To register, religious associations must submit to the government their members’ personal data (e.g., names, addresses, personal identification numbers, and signatures), which the law says may not be shared with other public institutions or used in any other way.
Some Muslim religious leaders preach sermons on the official PA television station that included expressions of anti-Semitism.
The Hungarian government has been criticized for passing legislation based on religious ideas and outsourcing government duties and public services to churches.
Hinduism Hinduism is a minority faith in Bosnia-Herzegovina, represented mainly by the ISKCON movement.
The Chinese Communist crackdown on Christianity had paused in 2020 due to the 2019-2020 coronavirus pandemic.
The group, created to carry out the governor's orders, takes its name from its uniform of red shirts, black pants, and black and red military caps.
In 2007, the 'Religious Affairs Bureau' of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in South Korea took the lead in organizing groups such as the Korean Religious Council and the Council for Peaceful Religions to promote interfaith dialogue and understanding.
The move threatens the site’s egalitarian prayer section and could strain the relationship with the Reform Judaism, the largest branch of Judaism in the United States.
It describes itself as "protecting the equal rights of nonreligious Americans." The Secular Coalition has chapters in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, composed of lobbyists trained by the organization.
Common Sense, subtitled A New Constitution for Britain is a book written by the British Labour politician Tony Benn and Andrew Hood.
Eight states continue to have a religious test in their constitutions, but the clause is inoperable and unenforceable because of the 1961 Supreme Court decision.
Despite tensions between religious groups during the Bosnian War, Montenegro remained fairly stable, mainly due its population having a historic perspective on religious tolerance and faith diversity.
Religious demography Cape Verde is an archipelago consisting of 10 islands, 9 of which are inhabited.
The government requires Greek Orthodox religious instruction in public schools; non-Greek Orthodox pupils may be excused.
Christians are the third largest religious group, traditionally concentrated in the south and the Nuba Mountains.
Transnistrian authorities believe the attacks were propagated by the same people and claim they are investigating the incidents.
The case The case stemmed from a request of Soile Lautsi, a Finnish-born Italian national, against the School Council of a school in Abano Terme (province of Padua).
The nuns stated they possessed all necessary documents, including parental consent forms and identification for the women.
In September 2007 police arrested Jehovah's Witnesses José Ortega and Asunción Bernarda Ortega Gaona for refusing to allow doctors to give their daughter blood transfusions.
After the fall of Communism, Gorbachev had given much-needed breathing room to the practice of religion in Russia, whose culture's heart is Eastern Orthodoxy, but had also opened the door indiscriminately and generally to the practice of religion.
Concerning Article 6 (access to court), the Commission reaffirmed that the right of an individual to protect his reputation can be regarded as a civil right protected by Article 6, but did not extend this protection to a group, when the national legislation didn't foresee that.
Garrido also invited the First Congress of Socialist Students to meet in the state of Tabasco and created a form of socialist education which he termed "Rationalist".
If the parents are not married when the child is born, the baby is registered with the same affiliation as the parent who has custody of the child.
Forced religious conversion There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
The Faculty of Theology spoke out against it, and Parliament's Church Committee therefore did not promote the proposal before Parliament.
The Coalition's member organizations, as of 2023, are: American Atheists American Ethical Union American Humanist Association Atheist Alliance of America Association of Secular Elected Officials Black Nonbelievers, Inc.
Former prisoners have reported that Falun Gong practitioners consistently received "the longest sentences and worst treatment" in labor camps, and in some facilities Falun Gong practitioners formed the substantial majority of detainees.
In May 2007 the Supreme Court ruled that the government's expropriation in 2005 of approximately 319,000 acres (1,290 km2) of land in Puerto Casado owned by Reverend Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church was unconstitutional.
Unconfirmed reports suggest that the Tajikistan government has attempted to restrict the influence of two popular Islamic scholars by stopping Muslims from outside the scholar's districts from coming to their mosques to worship, barring them from becoming members of the IRPT .
Pro studied in Mexico until 1914 when a massive wave of governmental anti-Catholicism forced the novitiate to dissolve and the Jesuits to flee to Los Gatos, California, in the United States.
As part of their public relations work, State agencies characterised these associations as a "sect", "youth sect", "youth religion" and "psycho-sect".
In March 1874 the Trier bishop Matthias Eberhard was put under arrest and died shortly after he was released from nine months of custody in 1876.
Federal Governments have twice proposed the amendment of Section 116, principally to apply its provisions to laws made by the states.
Religious peace and tolerance helped for development of the land, but it contributed to the future conflicts of interests between middle-class and nobility.
See also Religion in Croatia Human rights in Croatia Holy See-Yugoslavia relations References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
Gladstone's decision came against strained relations with France and manoeuvring by "men on the spot" in Egypt.
After interrogating the two magistrates and after the two of them and Hart had submitted apologies for their actions, the governor and councilors settled on the schout as mainly responsible.
One cause of this was that Spanish colonial missions sent priests to convert indigenous people, who had always been a very small population in Uruguay.
The Sunzhuang Church was a church which was destroyed on June 12, 2020, when more than 200 Chinese Communist Party officials from different departments including the Zhengzhou High-Tech District's Ethnic and Religious Affairs Bureau brought cranes and heavy-duty machinery to the area.
Aaron Rhodes then acknowledged that the Moscow office of the IHFHR had received funding from the Church of Scientology to print a leaflet about religious freedom in Russia, and voiced his astonishment at the charge.
A compulsory curriculum requires the study of Christianity for Christian students and Islam for Muslim students in grades one through six.
Baptist view The basic concept of individual soul liberty, is that in matters of religion, each person has the liberty to choose what conscience or soul dictates is right, and is responsible to no one but God for the decision that is made.
It ruled by a vote of six-to-three that a Jehovah's Witness man's freedom to manifest his religion, protected by Article 9, had been violated by the Greek government.
Switzerland (permitted to require children to participate in mixed swimming lessons and enforce this through fines) Executief van de Moslims van België and Others v.
Satheesan called it a "police witch-hunt" and a "mob trial," accusing the Sangh Parivar of hypocrisy.
Finally when our law had been promulgated to the effect that they should conform to the institutes of antiquity, many were subdued by the fear of danger, many even suffered death.
According to the organization, keeping such religious symbols violates the separation of church and state as established by the Constitution of Brazil.
Persecution and tolerance are both the result of alterity, the state of otherness, and the question of how to properly deal with those who are 'outside' the defined identity.
The Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations (Russian: «Закон О свободе совести и о религиозных объединениях»), also known as the 1997 Law (Russian: «Закон 1997 года») is a Russian law passed and signed by President Boris Yeltsin on September 26, 1997.
The Serbian Orthodox Church accused the new legislation of being discriminatory, specifically raising concerns that it would allow the government to confiscate church property.
In 2023, the country was scored zero out of 4 for religious freedom; it was also noted that non-Muslim foreigners are only permitted to observe their religions privately.
In 2003 the government approved a Shia request to establish a court of cassation to oversee Shia personal status issues.
The attack on absolutism, the defence of the rule of law and the emphasis on the importance of the covenant made Lex, Rex a precursor to the social contract idea, and helped pave the way for the political theory of John Locke.
In May 2022, the Committee on Religion, Regulation of Traditions, Celebrations, and Ceremonies (CRA) announced that they will no longer register any new Christian churches.
It has an area of 1,557 square miles (4,030 km2) and a population of 458,000, according to the National Statistics Institute.
Epega (president of the Non-Governmental Organization Respeito Brasil Yourubá), Baptist priest Djalma Rosa Torres, Vaishnava Hindu priest Jagannatha Dhama Dasa and Milton R.
Reports in the Greek Cypriot press about an earlier incident at the same school, which reported that an 11-year-old male Turkish Cypriot student verbally insulted a Greek Cypriot student wearing a Christian cross, were blamed for inciting the latter event.
Orthodox Jewish law strictly prohibits women reading from the Torah, and to a lesser degree women wearing tallit and kippahs.
By an Act of Parliament – The Church of Scotland Act 1921 – the Articles Declaratory were held to be lawful, thus recognising the Church of Scotland as the national church in Scotland but independent from the state in matters spiritual.
Since God in his power is infinitely superior to any [secular] authority, the right of God is also infinitely superior to the right of any authority.
In March 2015, a 27-year-old Afghan woman was murdered by a mob in Kabul over false allegations of burning a copy of the Qur'an.
Sources often attribute the signing of the Tokyo peace treaty to this phenomenon, as it reduced the sense of national emergency that had previously fueled the militant patriotic activism.
Repeal of the Conventicle Act By 1818 there was a proposal to give the Quakers limited rights to organize.
For example, on October 13, 2006, authorities fined Polish citizen and Catholic priest Antoni Koczko $29 (62,000 rubles) for conducting an "unauthorized" religious service in Minsk, since he had been assigned to a church in Slutsk.
The bishops, and many of the clergy, were fined or imprisoned — notably, two archbishops, Ledóchowski of Gnesen-Posen and Melchers of Cologne; four bishops, Brinkman of Munster, Blum of Limburg, Forster of Breslau, Martin of Paderborn; one auxiliary bishop, Janiszewski of Posen.
However at the same time the 62nd article states that the Evangelical Lutheran Church shall be the national church (þjóðkirkja) and the national curriculum places emphasis on Christian studies.
Groups who do not register with the government are not allowed to set up bank accounts and may face being banned; group founders and board members can face up to one year in prison and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 CFA francs.
The first three limbs prohibit the Commonwealth from making certain laws: laws "for establishing any religion"; laws "for imposing any religious observance"; and laws "for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion".
Overview of bill Under the provisions of the bill: The monarchy would be abolished and the constitutional status of the Crown ended.
Chakraborty wrote to the Secretary, Department of Home Government of West Bengal, demanding the ban of the Quran.
Shia worshipers gathered peacefully in public spaces to attend sermons and eulogies during Ashura and the government provided security to Shia neighborhoods.
The law redefined the state's relationship with religion, as the USSR president Mikhail Gorbachev had defined in on the Law of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic on Freedom of Worship passed on October 25, 1990, commonly known as the 1990 Law.
Although they singled out Feake for punishment, the ordinance they passed subsequent to the release from imprisonment and pardoning of the Hart and the magistrates maintains that all four of the town's officials were jointly at fault.
The French understand "freedom of religion" primarily as the freedom of the individual to believe or not to believe what any religion teaches.
The incident also drew commentary from national organizations focused on civil liberties and religious freedom, which argued that the assembly raised constitutional concerns.
Venugopal and other United Democratic Front (UDF) MPs from Kerala staged protests outside Parliament, demanding immediate release of the nuns and accountability for the injustice.
While non-Muslim expatriates are generally permitted to worship privately, public religious pluralism, proselytization, and activities perceived as contradicting Islamic principles are prohibited or tightly controlled.
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
Title V: Regulation of religious associations Article 25 declared all worship services open to the people.
20th century In 1965, the Second Vatican Council issued the Dignitatis Humanae, which stated the church's support for protecting religious liberty.
The Warsaw Confederation of 1573 was a groundbreaking document that established religious tolerance in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.
The Stefanus Prize is a human rights prize awarded to individuals for their outstanding contributions to defending freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
On April 28, 2025, the Supreme Court declined to entertain a fresh plea filed by petitioner Syed Alo Akbar challenging the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025.
The case was also significant, since the Commission recognised in its decision the right of a church to petition on behalf of its members, changing the previous practice.
Declining a blindfold, he faced his executioners with a crucifix in one hand and a rosary in the other and held his arms out in imitation of the crucified Christ and shouted out, "May God have mercy on you!
Mongolia: The Emblem of Mongolia has multiple Tibetan Buddhist symbols, including a Wheel of Dharma, a lotus, and the Three Jewels.
According to government sources, none of the criteria listed in related government documents on sects discuss theology; they only focus on the actions and the methods of the groups.
Request by the Church of Scientology to start proceedings against the publisher was rejected by the Supreme Court.
He also worked in the Klamath Basin on drug and alcohol recovery issues, where he was able to reconnect with his heritage and culture.
Most bishops and popes were trained lawyers rather than theologians, and much of the Christian thought of this period became little more than an extension of law.
The book claims that these Quran verses embody one of the main themes of the book: "Nor have these passages been culled at random from different chapters of the Quran with a view to making the book sound sinister.
Despite having historical roots as a Christian missions organization, Stefanus Alliance International in awarding the Stefanus Prize has recognized the efforts of individuals across different faiths.
Full text Promulgated in the name of the other official members of the Tetrarchy, the edict marked the end of persecutions against the Christians.
48pp Challenges to Shechita and its Protection by Government and Legislation in Late 20th Century Britain Neville Kesselman Kenneth Collins Abstract: A Community on Trial: The Aberdeen Shechita Case, 1893 Anti-Semitism without Hatred?
All associations must have a religious purpose, including: a creed, regular worship services, the conducting of religious education.
The opposition to the laws led to judicial proceedings against the bishop and to a fine, which was, however, at once remitted by the Emperor.
While the Taiwanese authorities do not collect or independently verify statistics on religious affiliation, they maintain registration statistics voluntarily reported by religious organizations.
According to the German weekly Die Zeit, Beijing police use around 4,500 officers to provide surveillance of Zhongguancun Square and of the homes of about 500 church members, to prevent the church from congregating.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government has generally respected this right in practice.
Virtually all members of the Protestant Reformed and Unitarian Churches of Transylvania are ethnic Hungarians.
Whereas the 1858 petitions had related only to observances in the English Book of Common Prayer, the 1859 bill additionally deleted the 23 October prayer from the Irish Book of Common Prayer.
The Court unanimously held that there was a violation of Article 9 of the ECHR (freedom of conscience).
In 2020, 97.45% of the population were Muslim (Mainly Sunni), 1.67% had no religion and 0.69% were Christian; the largest non-Muslim groups include Russian Orthodox, Baptists, Roman Catholics, Seventh-day Adventists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Lutherans, Baha'is, Zoroastrians and Jews.
See also Religion in Colombia Christianity in Colombia Islam in Colombia Hinduism in Colombia Baháʼí Faith in Colombia History of the Jews in Colombia External links International Religious Freedom Report 2004 on Colombia, U.S.
The cultural mandates supported by Phibunsongkhram's government promoted patriotic behavior, dress, and speech, and as such, Khana Lueat Thai's calls for vigilance against foreign influences were often tolerated by local officials, as they aligned with the widely accepted state nationalism.
Homosexuality Homosexual activity is legal in Burkina Faso, and the country has neither passed a law prohibiting such activity nor has ever criminalized it.
Religious uniformity occurs when government is used to promote one state religion, denomination, or philosophy to the exclusion of all other religious beliefs.
On April 19, 2007, officials in the Ministry of Education announced that the Ministry, in conjunction with the MOJIA, was developing a new religious education curriculum to be taught in all public schools, beginning the next academic year.
On birth certificates issued to Muslims, the government does not differentiate between Sunnis and Shia.
They were accompanied by Sukaman Mandavi, and three adult tribal women, all above 18 years of age, from Narayanpur district.
Undersecretary Mustafa Lakadamyalı claimed that the move was to prevent the "abuse" of the permission to hold masses, also citing difficulties with the policing of more than one mass a day or frequent masses.
Their oath was considered invalid, and the applicants took the oath on the Gospels, maintaining their protest.
Religious peace of Kutná Hora (Czech: Kutnohorský náboženský mír) was concluded in March 1485 by the Czech lands Diet in Kutná Hora between Utraquist Hussites and Roman Catholics.
However, in 2013 the Sunzhuang Village Committee issued a demolition notice, citing a failure to follow procedures for building the church.
As the meeting opened, one of the City Council members made a motion to stop the delivery of the invocation by an atheist.
The bill proposed establishing the United Kingdom as a secular state and thus disestablishing the Church of England, removing the British Crown as an element of government, but continuing government with democratically elected members from constituencies, each seat electing a male and a female.
The Constitution recognizes Catholicism as "the religion of the majority" of citizens but does not designate it as the official state religion.
Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 The necessity of receiving the sacrament as a qualification for office was abolished under George IV, and all acts requiring the taking of oaths and declarations against transubstantiation etc.
See also Annexation of the Metropolis of Kyiv by the Moscow Patriarchate References External links Assembly debate on 17 April 2024 (11th sitting) (see Doc.
In 1945, in the Yan'an Soviet, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) implemented a campaign to eliminate shamanic practices, especially those that it deemed unhygienic.
The Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses) Regulation, 2011 provides more precise stipulations surrounding the welfare of animals during the slaughter process, including that 'Animals are slaughtered by being first stunned and then exsanguinated (bled out).
The Jewish community, like most other small religious groups in Bosnia, including Protestants, has its strongest membership in Sarajevo.
On 14 December 2006, the defendants took their case to the Victorian Court of Appeal, which overturned the VCAT decision.
External links Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland at the official website of the Church of Scotland The full text of Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland at Wikisource
The Chinese government states that Uyghurs are being sent to vocational training centers in order to prevent the spread of extremism and to increase their employability.
In general, the subjects on the Karakax list all have relatives living abroad, a category that reportedly leads to "almost certain internment".
On December 27, 2022, the Constitutional Court recognized as constitutional the law "On Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations", which renamed of the UOC-MP.
The Utraquist and the Catholic faiths were declared equal in front of the law, and the religious peace (Landfried) was declared for the following 31 years.
Revival Contemporary discussions of integralism were renewed in 2014, focusing on criticism of liberalism and capitalism.
He then said that the change, to make him work Sundays breached his fundamental human right to freedom of religion, as a Christian.
The most notable example restriction was in Metz, whose Parlement's actions explicitly excluded certain rights for Jews within its domain, such as drafting of lists of grievances, unlike in the rest of France.
What resulted was the plunder of movable wealth (of which the monasteries had become the keepers during the period of Viking invasion) and the parcelling out of land and office as the temporal powers saw fit.
See also Dictatus papae (statements by Pope Gregory VII) Freedom of Religion References Papal primacy: from its origins to the present by Klaus Schatz.
Any funds inherited by the organization became the private property of the O'Hair family, never accounted for within the organization.
A person may then choose to be a Baptist, a member of another Christian denomination, an adherent to another world religion, or to choose no religious belief system, and the church, the government, family and friends may not make the decision or compel the person to choose otherwise.
21st century In the 21st century, some secular authorities around the world continue to exercise restrictions of religious expression, for example, Afghanistan and North Korea.
During the Supreme Court hearing on the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, assured the court that no waqf property would be denotified and no appointments would be made to the Central Waqf Council or State Waqf Boards until 5 May.
Confiscated land The defence of the rights of the Church with regard to the Christian schools had another negative result.
Under the law, parents of students under 18 years of age are required to request their children’s participation in religion classes, while students 18 and older may themselves ask to attend religion classes.
Parents have the right to decide their child's religion before age 15, but they must take into consideration the views of children once they reach the age of 7 and give their views priority once they reach the age of 12.
1363/1938 shows that the relevant criteria adopted by the Greek legislature are reconcilable with the foregoing if and in so far as they are designed only to punish improper proselytism, which the Court does not have to define in the abstract in the present case.
However, Islam is also established as the state religion of the country in article 3, and article 11 provides for legal restrictions on proselytizing to Muslims.
See also Religion in Belgium Human rights in Belgium References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
The Theravada Buddhist tradition is widespread and strong in all provinces, with an estimated more 4,100 pagodas throughout the country.
In 1961, legislation gave Muslim Shari'a courts exclusive jurisdiction in matters of personal status.
'Party/Group of Thai Blood'; also known as Khana Luad/Lu'at Thai) Was an ultra-nationalist Thai movement active in the early 1940s.
However, kings generally tolerated Jewish merchants, investors, and bankers whose contributions benefited the economy of the Danish-Norwegian realm, while also seeking to restrict their movements, residence, and presence in public life.
Minority religious groups report that there is a good degree of tolerance in society for minority religious beliefs and traditions; there is no tolerance for conversion away from Islam.
IHP+ mobilizes national governments, development agencies, civil society, and others to support a single, country-led national health strategy in a well-coordinated way.
I hope people who don't like the little film will still think about the big issue and try to do something about it." Withdrawal of sponsors Several sponsors withdrew their support of 10:10 as a result of the No Pressure film.
This, the report explained, could be solved by optimizing usage of these sources by switching from coal to gas, by preventing methane leakages, and by stopping routine flaring.
He was previously involved in deals to sell Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine at a premium during the COVID 19 pandemic.
Stark resigned after three months to take up a role in government and was replaced by COO Michael Rea.
In July 2021, permits were being handed out for free rather than auctioned, and the market price per tonne of CO2e was around RMB 50, roughly half of the EU ETS and the UK ETS but better compared to the US, which has no formal cap-and-trade program.
Internal prices also typically rise with national GDP, company size (number of employees), and quality of corporate governance (number of independent board members and percentage of female board members).
History South Pole was founded in 2006 by graduates of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) including Patrick Bürgi, Thomas Camerata, Renat Heuberger, Ingo Puhl, and Christoph Sutter, and joined by Christoph Grobbel, Marco Hirsbrunner, and Christian Dannecker as equal partners.
“Embodied carbon refers to the carbon footprint associated with building materials, from cradle to grave," and can be quantified as a part of environmental impact using life-cycle assessment (LCA).
Addressing the growing demand for reliable and detailed information on emissions trading worldwide, ICAP developed an interactive ICAP ETS Map, which offers an up-to-date overview of existing ETSs.
Credit-level integrity: development of threshold standards intended to raise credit quality, including through the proposed Core Carbon Principles.
Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund A third option would be for companies to pay $15 for every tonne over their reduction target.
This enabled the company to develop over 700 CDM projects located in 45 countries and using 50 technologies.
Secretary of State, personally called officials in different countries to threaten financial penalties and other penalties.
The Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (ICVCM) is an independent governance body that publishes the Core Carbon Principles (CCPs) and related guidance intended to define high-level integrity criteria for carbon credits used in the voluntary carbon market.
taxiformis in vertical, near-shore land-based tanks, using seawater to provide the proper temperature and nutrients.
Ontario Following the election of a Progressive Conservative Party government under Doug Ford in the 2018 Ontario general election, Ontario cancelled its participation in the Western Climate Initiative cap-and-trade system.
In March 2019, Chancellor Merkel formed a "climate cabinet" to find a consensus on new emissions reduction measures to meet 2030 targets.
As of 2025 a law has been passed but allowances not yet decided, and it has not yet clear whether the country will join the Cooperative Mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement.
Benefits The carbon market in India seeks the following benefits: Improves agricultural practices and social communities through emission reductions to improve their source of income through the voluntary credit market.
Pan, Y.; Birdsey, R.; Fang, J.; Hougton, R.; Kauppi, P.; Kurz, W.; Phillips, O.; Shvidenko, A.; Canadell, J.; Ciais, P.; Jackson, R.; Lewis, S.; McGuire, D.; Pacala, S.; Piao, S.; Rautiainen, A.; Sitch, S.; Hayes, D.
ART is governed by an independent advisory board, while daily operations are managed by the ART Secretariat, hosted by Winrock International.
Media coverage The launch of the PopOffsets project on 3 December 2009 received international media coverage from both print and broadcast media outlets, including in The Guardian, The Times, The Sunday Express, The Telegraph, Reuters, BBC and Channel 4.
For example, under Premier Blaine Higgs, the New Brunswick Attorney General submitted his intention to intervene in Saskatchewan's court challenge of the federal government's carbon pricing plan.
REPs are incentives for homeowners, farmers, businesses, etc., to become producers of renewable energy, or to increase their production of renewable energy.
Developing countries did take on obligations under the Protocol, but these were unquantified and allowed climate change to be addressed as part of wider national policies on sustainable development.
The Program of Activities (PoA) under the Clean Development Mechanism is regarded a precedor of a future NAMA mechanism and already operational.
Despite their contribution to the construction industry and the generation of jobs, artisanal brick producers largely operate informally and are generally excluded from social, environmental and economic public policies.
In it, Stern discusses the effect of global warming on the world economy, and states that climate change is the greatest and widest-ranging market failure ever seen, presenting a unique challenge for economics.
Presidential decree N° 7.390 of 2010 The decree specifies how Brazil quantifies greenhouse emissions, how it will achieve the reduction, and a legal requirement for estimating annual emissions.
History Ember was originally founded in 2008 as Sandbag, focussing on the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme, allowing its members to campaign to reduce the number of permits in circulation and to purchase permits and cancel them.
VAT fraud In 2009 Europol informed that 90% market volume of emissions trading in some countries could be the result of tax fraud, more specifically missing trader fraud, costing governments more than 5 billion euros.
A comprehensive study, published in Energy Policy in 2013, reported that Germany's nuclear power phase-out, to be complete by 2022, is contradictory to the goal of the climate portion of the program.
The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 (asp 12) is an act of the Scottish Parliament concerning the setting of emissions reductions targets and certain other matters.
sanfordiana, is a species of red algae, with cosmopolitan distribution in tropical to warm temperate waters.
Jeff Huang is assistant chairman of Tianjin Climate Exchange and vice-president of Chicago Climate Exchange.
It has also supported results-based payments: a pilot programme for REDD+ results-based payments ran from 2017 to 2022, and in October 2024 the GCF Board adopted a policy establishing REDD+ results-based payments as a permanent funding window within the Fund.
The annual cost of compliance is estimated to be $177 million - or less than one-tenth of one per cent of Alberta's nominal GDP ($242 billion in 2006).
Among the regulations outlined in the plan were initiatives to increase natural disaster preparedness, create and improve existing hospitals, and modernize infrastructure to withstand better extreme weather.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSJTKyDuI6I Explanatory Film - The Climate Action Plan: Successful climate action has to be a cooperative undertaking.
In the first scene, a bright and chirpy schoolteacher, played by Lyndsey Marshal, tells her class about the 10:10 campaign, and asks what they are doing to reduce their carbon footprint.
This included a joint FCPF/UN-REDD template for Readiness Preparation Proposals (R-PPs) and joint guidance on stakeholder engagement in REDD+ readiness.
An emissions reduction currency, by contrast, is purely an incentive for behaviour change by individuals or groups.
The third phase of CERT (previously known as Energy Efficiency Commitment 3) originally ran from 2008 to 2011 and increased the previous targets to 154 MtC.
Examples Venice The city of Venice serves as an example of how a modern city can function without cars.
It provides a platform for governments to share their practical experiences and the latest knowledge on ETS.
Simpson Grierson considered that the key findings of the review were that: the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report represents a consensus on scientific evidence, and should underpin New Zealand's policy.
There have been efforts in the past to organize subnational governments to address climate change most notably through the Cities for Climate Protection Program - an effort associated with the International Union of Local Authorities and the United Nations Environment Programme.
Voluntary Emission Reductions or Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are a type of carbon offset exchanged in the voluntary or over-the-counter market for carbon credits.
In 2005, EcoSecurities Group Plc was listed in the London Stock Exchange, raising capital for an expansion drive that resulted in offices in 33 countries run by over 350 employees.
Such cuts will require "a significant contribution by the electrification of new cars and should have priority".
It described this as a shared data layer linking registry identifiers and transaction status so credits could be traced consistently as they move between accounts and intermediaries.
Incentivize the sustainable use of degraded land and ecosystems, and remove incentives that encourage forest destruction.
The programme now operates in the United Kingdom, Australia, Chile, United Arab Emirates as well as New Zealand.
In the 2015 Autumn Statement, the Chancellor, George Osborne, announced that an additional £225 million budget for automotive research and development would be facilitated by the APC.
Goods leaving the US for sale in a country without a carbon price would be reimbursed that fee at the border.
Examples of each category are as follows: Forest Management Rotation extensions: Allowing trees to grow for longer periods to increase carbon absorption.
Assigned amount units were issued up to the level of initial "assigned amount" of an Annex 1 Party to the Kyoto Protocol.
During Trump's second term in office, the office was re-established under the name "Office of Coal".
Such emissions should be reduced as far as possible by developing new processes and replacing old ones – or through the use of carbon capture and utilization (CCU) or carbon capture and storage (CCS).
Other names included Liberian peace activist and advocate for women's rights, Leymah Gbowee, and Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian playwright, novelist and poet.
The Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) is a non-profit organisation that facilitates funding to UK-based research and development projects developing net-zero emission technologies.
The Open Coalition on Compliance Carbon Markets also known as Climate Coalition, was created during the United Nations Climate Conference 2025 COP30 in Belém, Brazil.
It believes that the crisis of climate change requires a national economic effort on the scale of the American mobilization of the home front during World War II, in order to transform the USA economy speedily.
The emissions from 2,500 hours of driving one standard diesel vehicle produces about 150 litres of ink.
Results As of November 2014, 28 schools had raised enough money for solar panels, and 27 schools had installed them through the scheme.
Members noted that the experiences in Panama provided valuable lessons for other REDD+ countries and highlighted the importance of strong stakeholder engagement processes.
In the second phase of the Energy Efficiency Commitment (2005–2008) scheme, energy saving targets were raised to 130 TWh suppliers, and here suppliers with at least 50,000 domestic customers (including affiliated licenses) were eligible for an obligation.
Emissions figures from the 2010–11 financial year suggest the electricity generation sector may be due to pay around A$3.9 billion.
By April 2014, Willauer's team had not yet made fuel to the standard required by military jets, but they were able in September 2013 to use the fuel to fly a radio-controlled model airplane powered by a common two-stroke internal combustion engine.
A 1995 report compared converting vehicle fleets for the use of carbon-neutral methanol with the further synthesis of gasoline.
The fall of the Soviet Union led to massive restructuring and deindustrialization of many of the former Soviet Bloc.
In the United States, most carbon dioxide (98 percent) is emitted as a result of the combustion of fossil fuels; consequently, carbon dioxide emissions and energy use are highly correlated.
The rationale behind a meta registry is to maintain transparency and prevent double counting and double issuance.
The first four companies to receive the Water Standard were Sainsbury's, Coca-Cola, Sunlight Services Group and Branston.
In March 2017, Trump signed an executive order to officially nullify Obama's Clean Power Plan in an effort, it said, of reviving the coal industry.
See also Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit Removal Units Voluntary Emissions Reduction Flexible mechanisms List of Kyoto Protocol signatories == References ==
Observers of the accord are Indiana, Ohio, and South Dakota, as well as the Canadian Province of Ontario.
The term commonly encompasses two broad categories: large-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation modification (SRM).
Proponents of Renewable Energy Payments argue that this policy has proven to stimulate local economies, innovation and small business growth because in its truest form REP's put everyone, whether small business, individual, or farmers on an equal footing with large commercial titans of industry.
The purpose of GCC methodology is to make them user friendly, and simple where possible, without compromising with their environmental integrity.
History The Alliance was launched by Canada and the UK at the COP23 climate summit in November 2017.
The report consisted of minority reports from the New Zealand Labour Party, the Green Party, the Māori Party and the ACT Party.
Before its release, The Guardian described it as "attention-grabbing" and "pretty edgy." The film was withdrawn from public circulation by 10:10, on the same day it was released, due to negative publicity.
Main methods Alkaline Electrolyzers (AE): A mature and cost-effective technology used primarily for large-scale, steady hydrogen production.
See also CEB VER Verified Carbon Standard CDM Gold Standard Certified Emission Reduction == References ==
In 2013, the Fluid Interfaces research group, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology demonstrated the process of converting carbon residue into ink for use in an inkjet cartridge.
Then-Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, expressed at ICAP's founding ceremony: "This first-of-its-kind partnership will provide more incentives for clean-tech investment and economic growth while not letting polluters off the hook.
President Bill Clinton signed the agreement in November 1998, but the US Senate refused to ratify it, citing potential damage to the US economy required by compliance.
Verified Emission Reductions are usually created by projects which have been verified outside of the Kyoto Protocol.
Main findings Renewable energy can contribute to "social and economic development, energy access, secure energy supply, climate change mitigation, and the reduction of negative environmental and health impacts".
Hydrogen power In 2009, Japan fitted over 100,000 homes with hydrogen powered fuel cells, improving its hydrogen powered infrastructure.
The Carbon Trust also initiated work on new and emerging low carbon technologies using a range of programmes and measures including traditional research, development, and demonstration support to supporting early stage companies developing new technologies and practices.
However, if a country was not able to meet their obligation, their target would get added to their next commitment period.
Critical climate change experts decry these credits as a way for countries to buy their way out of taking action to address climate change.
At the 2009 Copenhagen climate conference, a Bangladeshi delegate told reporters that Bangladesh might let the World Bank manage the funds, if that was set as a condition by funders.
CO2balance adheres to a profit for purpose approach, whereby revenue from the sale of carbon credits is used to maintain projects over the long term and reinvested into new project development.
Samuele Landi, an Italian businessman convicted of fraudulent bankruptcy who lived as a fugitive until his death at sea in 2024, was listed as an advisor to Blue Carbon.
REDD (2005–2007) REDD was first discussed in 2005 under the UNFCCC at its 11th session of the Conference of the Parties after Papua New Guinea and Costa Rica, on behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, submitted the proposal on reducing emissions from deforestation in developing countries.
The association manages exclosures (land protected from grazing) with the intent of improving the ecosystem and sequestering carbon.
Features The carbon market in India includes multiple features: A system of trading to buy and sell credits permitting an industrial unit to emit a specific amount of greenhouse gas.
The aim is to create a "durable institutional architecture—aligning climate ambition with economic competitiveness." == References ==
Course 50 is encouraging innovation in technology towards more effective CO2 capturing polymers, as well as temperature reduction and improved efficiency of blast furnaces in the steel industrious.
As of June 2019, five provinces and two territories are under the federal pricing system for one or both aspects of pollution pricing.
Alberta-based credits A facility can purchase credits from large emitters that have reduced their emissions intensity beyond their 12 per cent target.
2015 Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project study The Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project (DDPP) aims to demonstrate how countries can transform their energy systems by 2050 in order to achieve a low-carbon economy.
Clients get to use a specific CEMARS certification logo and are certified against ISO 14064-1 for organisation or PAS 2050 for product or service carboNZero certification is for organisations, products, services or events to make a carbon neutrality claim.
The Clean Air Act (1990) or Clean Air Act amendments of 1990 authorized the use of market-based approaches such as emission trading to assist states in attaining and maintaining air quality for all criteria pollutants.
Other French cities with a LEZ in operation include Grenoble, Lyon and Strasbourg Germany In Germany, an LEZ is called an environmental zone (Umweltzone).
A comprehensive, upstream, auctioned cap-and-trade system is very similar to a comprehensive, upstream carbon tax.
Working in coordination with public bodies to incorporate the artisanal brick production sector within the national climate change mitigation agenda.
Google violations On 22 April 2008, Ecocho was informed by Google that they would be denied the use of Google's search technologies for multiple past violations of Google's policies.
It is normally mined underground before being transported to power stations, or export shipping terminals.
The revenue that would be collected would be 100% returned as a monthly or annual payment to every American household.
This strategy focuses on the availability and use of alternative modes of transportation to driving as well as reducing the emissions associated with driving.
The application is designed to meet the new requirements of the EU ETS resulting from the 2008/101/CE Directive.
This comprised nearly €76 billion for initiatives related to power grids, energy efficiency, and renewable energy throughout Europe and other parts of the world.
Sandbag was re-branded as Ember in 2020 with a focus on the global power sector, while a separate Brussels-based organisation was established to continue work on the ETS.
Market role ART has been closely associated with the LEAF Coalition, which uses TREES-certified credits in its purchase arrangements and became a major buyer of jurisdictional TREES credits.
The negative market response was concentrated among EU companies subject to the CBAM with low profit margins.
A Clean Air Task Force (CATF) study investigated public health benefits arising from the RGGI states' shift to cleaner power generation.
Funding The funds gathered from online donations were distributed between rights-based family planning schemes, contraceptive services and supplies, sex and relationship education and health programs.
Climate Defiance is a climate movement organization in the United States which uses direct action protests to demand stronger climate change mitigation policies.
In the Uniform Price scenario with a price of 50 dollars per ton of CO2, for 5 countries the revenue can represent more than 1% of the overall governmental revenue.
The bill aimed to make the use of non-fossil fuel sources mandatory for energy and encourage feedstocks like green ammonia, green hydrogen, ethanol and biomass.
Negotiations The IMO Net-Zero Framework (NZF) was drafted by Marine Environment Protection Committee Meeting 83 (MEPC83) and was initially scheduled for adoption by the IMO at an extraordinary meeting in October 2025.
The report also proposed shared data fields and protocols intended to be broadly accessible, framing common data infrastructure as a way to increase transparency and oversight as trading volumes grew.
Among those emitters to which it applied, emissions were significantly lower after introduction of the tax.
The refund is paid in biannual installments for residential customers and monthly for small businesses.
The Stern Report shows that the overall cost of strong early action is much less than the cost of inaction.
There is no legal requirement for organisations to act on or implement any of the recommendations made in the report.
In January 2018, Yasa, an electric motor manufacturer based in Oxford, England, opened a new factory to produce 100,000 motors per year, using APC funding.
The program reduced expenditures on medicine by about 1.5% ($800 million annually) and reduced the mortality rate by up to 0.5% (2,200 fewer premature deaths, mainly among individuals 75 and older).
The Initial IMO GHG Strategy lists criteria to assess impacts on States, and MEPC 74 approved a procedure for assessing impacts on States of candidate measures.
The scheme required entities which emit over 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent greenhouse gases per year, and which were not in the transport or agriculture sectors, to obtain emissions permits, called carbon units.
The mixed reactions from users can be seen in the blog comments, some taking further action by complaining to Google, and others agreeing with Google.
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
On 14 September 2009, the National Government announced that it had reached an agreement with the Māori Party about revisions to the NZ ETS.
It is also supported by companies including Microsoft, Pepsico, First Solar, American Wind Energy Association, Exxon Mobil, BP, and General Motors.
On 9 February 2007 CAF declared: Premiers and Chief Ministers expressed their expectation that the Prime Minister would make a commitment to the introduction of a national emissions trading scheme following receipt of the Task Group report in May 2007.
All funds collected under the federal system are returned to the province or territory where they are collected.
In 2021, a 10% stake in the South Pole was bought by Lightrock, a leading global impact investor backed by LGT and the Princely House of Liechtenstein.
It has been suggested that mandatory carbon allowances could be included in future so that it would become a carbon market similar to the Chinese and EU ETS.
Department of Energy (DOE) conducted projects called the Clean Coal Technology & Clean Coal Power Initiative (CCPI).
Context For many years, there has been severe land degradation and desertification in Tigray and the area became also impoverished; however, a lot of efforts are done to rehabilitate these semi-arid mountain landscapes.
They can also purchase credits from facilities whose emissions are below the 100,000-tonne threshold but are voluntarily reducing their emissions.
Campaigners have expressed concern about the 10–15% management fees to be charged by World Bank consultants and the lack of democratic access to adaptation funding.
Examples of program assessments ICVCM's assessment status information lists major programs including Gold Standard and Verra's Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) as CCP-Eligible programs.
In 2025 experts said that the lack of clarity on allowances (caps) was hindering future decarbonization.
It started as a memorandum of understanding, which was signed by twelve founding jurisdictions on May 19, 2015 in Sacramento, California.
The experience gained in the pilot areas will serve as a basis to expand EELA’s intervention at a national level.
The plan also promotes strategies to reduce emissions from transportation, which account for over 20 percent of local greenhouse gas sources.
Building upon the achievements of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan, it became increasingly difficult to encourage smaller enterprises—many of which already operated efficiently—to adopt stricter targets.
Withdrawal Although originally planned to be shown in cinema and television advertisements, 10:10 removed the film from their website and YouTube later on 1 October 2010.
In assessing Australia’s further contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, these advantages must be preserved.
Climate Defiance disrupted the 2023 White House Correspondents Dinner, an event for Exxon CEO Darren Woods, and the speaking events of several powerful Democratic officials, including Tommy Beaudreau, Pete Buttigieg, Jennifer Granholm, Amy Klobuchar, Joe Manchin, Jerome Powell, and Ali Zaidi.
PAS 2060 is a specification detailing how to demonstrate carbon neutrality produced and published by the British Standards Institution.
On February 15, 2009, the Bangladeshi government refused to accept a £60 million climate funding offer from the United Kingdom at if it was channeled through the World Bank, at first, then the government has accepted the terms and the money.
It also emphasizes financial assistance from developed countries to developing countries to reduce emissions.
This led to a subsequent criticism of Energiewende's strategy, and how this impacted different countries in Europe.
Oram concluded that the review had 'failed to make any serious contribution towards improving the working of the ETS'.
(2a) Next, the company projects how much methane it expects to emit into the air, with the new technology.
The report also stated that the "net financial impact of the program on households in different income brackets would depend in large part on how many allowances were sold (versus given away), how the free allowances were allocated, and how any proceeds from selling allowances were used.
Subsequent inspections must be conducted by an accredited energy assessor within five years of the previous inspection.
Command-and-control regulation Command and control is a system of regulation that prescribes emission limits and compliance methods for each facility or source.
Recyclebank is also funded by municipal governments that purchase and operate the required equipment, allowing RecycleBank to operate as a private for profit company.
The term recognizes that different countries may take different nationally appropriate action on the basis of equity and in accordance with common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
Current priorities include financing for climate action and responding to global crises like the COVID-19 pandemic.
Before the Under2 MOU was conceived many subnational governments had taken the initiative to create a climate action plan.
EBEX21 was established to assist landowners to retire or set aside marginally productive land and allow it to regenerate to create new areas of native forest.
GCC program framework GCC Program has developed the governance structure, systems, carbon registry and the documentation framework to facilitate the building of low-carbon economies.
Canada In 2014 SaskPower a provincial-owned electric utility finished renovations on Boundary Dam's boiler number 3 making it the world's first post-combustion carbon capture storage facility.
In total, Blue Carbon has secured forested area equivalent to the land area of the entire United Kingdom.
There is also concern regarding the biased ranking that occurs if some included options have negative costs.
The final accepted compromise became stronger in CO2 emission reduction than the proposal from the European Commission.
According to the treaty, in 2012, Annex I Parties who have ratified the treaty must have fulfilled their obligations of greenhouse gas emissions limitations established for the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period (2008–2012).
In the United States RGGI (Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative) has set a precedent in that it will initially allow only up to 3.3% compliance occur by means of offset projects (carbon projects).
Corporate social responsibility CO2balance offers a corporate social responsibility service to corporate clients, to complement the environmental and social benefits of their climate protection projects.
The funding for the refund comes from the utility providers who pay a carbon tax for polluting the air, and the refund is the dividend portion of the carbon fee and dividend program created by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006.
On the 27th October 2023, South Pole cut all ties with the project, confirming that the project had failed to meet standards.
Sharma and his team spent close to three years researching how to purify and repurpose carbon soot from auto and factory emissions, a major contributor to air pollution and global carbon footprint.
History The British Standards Institution announced the development of the PAS 2060 Standard for Carbon Neutrality in October 2009 with the objective of increasing transparency of carbon neutrality claims by providing a common definition and recognized method of achieving carbon neutral status.
These initiatives taken together may create a series of partly linked markets, rather than a single carbon market.
Economic development projects for community and gender and conservation of biodiversity through voluntary credit markets using premium pricing.
In June 2020 6 global finance organisations joined including Desjardins Group, the first major North American financial institution to join.
The system has been the subject of a UK government funded feasibility study in 2008, an All Party Parliamentary Group report in 2011, and a European Commission debate in 2018.
Exporters have to pay the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism from 1 January 2026 until the Turkish ETS starts.
Simon Upton, a former National Party MP and Minister for the Environment, was appointed as a special envoy to liaise with other countries on the issue.
In 2010, World Bank commented that introducing border tariffs could lead to a proliferation of trade measures where the competitive playing field is viewed as being uneven.
References Japan Denies Buying ‘Hot Air’ to Meet Kyoto Target Russia and carbon trading, New York Times, 28 Dec 2005
The Council started discussions including representatives of all 27 member states on the legislative proposals in working parties on an expert level.
The peak of this curve is known as peak oil, and by changing the shape of the curve, the timing of the peak in oil production is affected.
When the Kyoto Protocol was negotiated, there were several mechanisms that allowed for trading of emissions credits.
The Net-Zero framework is in principle, designed to deliver on the 2023 GHG strategy, not only in terms of climate ambition but also addressing concerns relating to the just and equitable energy transition.
Although historically grouped together, these approaches differ substantially in mechanisms, timelines, and risk profiles, and are now typically discussed separately.
Progress As of 2025, the US has closed, or planned closure of, 65% of coal plants, Europe has planned the retirement of 50% of its coal fleet, and Canada has reduced its coal capacity by 83%.
10% in 2010 Possible's original campaign encouraged and supported individuals and organisations to cut their carbon emissions by 10% in 2010, and gave the group its name, 10:10 Climate Action.
Founded in 2009, the organisation began by campaigning for a 10% reduction in carbon emissions in 2010, and has since broadened its approach to include a range of projects focused on carbon reduction and renewable energy.
In a broad stroke, Renewable Energy Payments, sometimes known as a Feed-in Tariff place obligations on utility companies to buy electricity from renewable energy sources, often small, local companies, for a fixed period of time.
They found that the effects of RGGI's first three years are generating in $1.6 billion in net economic benefit and 16,000 job-years, and RGGI's second three years are generating $1.3 billion in net economic benefit and 14,700 job-years.
He lectured on aviation operations and management for Golden Gate University, and on aeronautics at Sierra Academy of Aeronautics, a school for professional pilots.
James Card (October 25, 1915 – January 16, 2000) was an American film preservationist who established the motion picture collection at George Eastman House, one of the major moving image archives in the United States.
Günther Theischinger (born 21 February 1940) is an Austrian entomologist who has specialized in dragonflies (Odonata) and other aquatic insects.
The exhibition used performance, photography, collage, video and sound installation to explore biomythography and non-traditional archiving.
In 2016 the English-language portal "The Culture Trip" included her in the list of "8 most influential women in Central Asian and Caucasian art".
He became a father figure to Marceline, protecting her from mutants and gifting her the stuffed animal Hambo, which became her most prized possession.
In 2019, Kholeif co-curated the 14th Sharjah Biennial: Leaving the Echo Chamber with curators, Zoe Butt and Claire Tancons.
After leaving junior high school in 1944, Karwemera enrolled at Nyakasura Vernacular Teacher Training College qualifying as a teacher of vernacular.
Malraux eventually reinstated Langlois after intense debate on 22 April, while reducing museum funding.
Art Gallery of Ontario Nanibush began work at the Art Gallery of Ontario in 2016 as an assistant curator of Canadian and Indigenous Art in the department of Canadian art.
The suppression and attempted erasure of many Indigenous languages is tied to settler colonial practices of assimilation of Indigenous peoples.
In 2011, Uranchimeg curated Modern Mongolia: From Steppe to Urban Dynamics, an exhibition of more than twenty, contemporary Mongolian artists at Hanart TZ Gallery in Hong Kong.
He was the former editor-in-chief of A Magazine Curated By and has served as a features editor of SSAW and Arena Homme + and has contributed to publications such Another, Architectural Digest, The Business of Fashion, Interview, New York Magazine The Cut, L'Uomo Vogue, Vogue, and Wallpaper.
Ongoing funding is uncertain as CSHD must compete with larger demining NGOs such as Mines Advisory Group and Halo Trust.
Awards and honors Ledoux received the Erasmus Prize, a Dutch award for contributions to art in 1988.
Edgardo Cozarinsky's 1994 documentary Citizen Langlois is an essayistic biography showing Langlois' progress from amateur collector to nouvelle vague hero and friend of the stars.
Her latest work, Piniartorsuit kinguaavi, was also nominated for the Nordic Council prize in 2013, though she lost to the Danish-Norwegian author Kim Leine.
In addition to selecting works, the curator is often responsible for writing labels, catalog essays, and other content supporting exhibitions.
The family settled in Yokohama when she was 12 and she entered the Ferris Girls' School, to study the English language.
He studied at Universidad Central de Venezuela, New School University, and holds a Master's in Interactive Telecommunications from New York University.
Njabala Foundation Kazungu founded the Njabala Foundation, a nonprofit organization that promotes the visibility of women artists through exhibitions, research initiatives, residencies, and mentorship programmes.
Hogue was recognized for her curatorial work in 2019 with an Award for Emerging Curator of Contemporary Canadian Art by the Hnatyshyn Foundation.
Countess Anna Sarah Maria Brigitte Elisabeth Lily Henckel von Donnersmarck (born 6 March 1973), known professionally as Anna Henckel-Donnersmarck, is a German filmmaker and film curator.
He received first prize for the "largest and best collection of stuffed birds and quadrupeds of Nova Scotia, with popular and scientific names".
Kashiko Kawakita introduced him to Yasujirō Ozu and was his sponsor when he applied for permanent residency in Japan.
from the University of Chicago, and attended the Whitney Museum Independent Study Program from 2002 to 2003.
In 2023, upon seeing his work on view in the National Gallery of Canada due to his Governor General's Award, he said that Métis art was lacking in the building and asked that the Métis should have more representation.
One of his artistic creations is the Black Box, a time capsule in the form of a book which documents over 25 years of "Plexus International" artistic activity.
Titles in the series follow the player character as they live in a village populated by anthropomorphic animals, with gameplay that proceeds in a nonlinear fashion and in-game events that occur in real-time.
you see him suffering as a consequence of the murders he has committed and that is when [his] humanity comes through.
Since 1994, he has been the curator of the Dead Sea Scrolls collection and the director of the Shrine of the Book at the Israel Museum, where he promoted the platform that displays the scrolls online for the world.
Early life and education Isaac is of Ojibway and British descent and is a member of Sagkeeng First Nation.
Silversword attacks Superboy and Green Lantern, and before they can react, seemingly pushes them to their deaths into a volcano.
Biography Garneau was born in Edmonton, Alberta and having a mother who was an artist, always made art.
The Alexandrian Project aimed to build a new main library building using computers and electronic resources more than books.
She co-curated the exhibition Making Doha 1950-2030 at the National Museum of Qatar, which used archival material, oral history and photographs to explore the architectural history of the city.
In 2013 she published a book titled The Legacies of Jean-Luc Godard (WLU Press) along with Douglas Morrey and Nicole Cote.
John Eni-Ibukun (born 13 June 1997), also known as June Sometimes, is a Nigerian artist, writer, and the Head of Curation for Afrobeats and African Gospel at Audiomack.
While Archives 2.0 may refer to implementing new technologies, it is also a way of engaging with archives in an effort to promote openness and flexibility of archival materials.
Works Among his published books, A Day At Qumran: The Dead Sea Sect and Its Scrolls, published by The Israel Museum, Jerusalem (1998), stands out.
He served as the Asia bureau chief for THR until August 2013, when Clifford Coonan took over the role, and became a senior film reviewer for THR.
Significant works of translation include Vinterbørn by Dea Trier Mørch and Århundradets kärlekssaga by Märta Tikkanen.
The work of Stojanova is mainly focused on Canadian multicultural cinema, Eastern European cinema and German cinema during the war.
Some of these include Móvil, an exhibition and performance by Guatemalan artist Regina José Galindo at the Museo de Arte Contemporáneo (MUAC) and UNAM’s independence bi-centenary celebration project: The Ghost of Liberty, México 2010.
Graduates with PhDs usually become teaching faculty in schools of library and information science, or sometimes occupy the directorship or deanship of university libraries.
She has curated several art exhibitions in Bangalore, India and has worked with pioneering artists like S.G.Vasudev , Yusuf Arakkal and Balan Nambiar [2].
Barakat's artwork is found in museum collections, including at the British Museum in London; Umm al-Fahm Art Gallery in Umm al-Fahm, Israel; and the Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts in Amman.
Hagemeyer also constructed a manual of resources for Deaf people and those associated with them called The Red Notebook, which is now online at the website of the Friends of Libraries for Deaf Action.
Yefimovich co-founded "The Archive Magazine," an Israeli platform dedicated to promoting and showcasing documentary photography.
Paramesh Krishnan Nair (6 April 1933 – 4 March 2016) was an Indian film archivist and film scholar, who was the founder and director of the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) in 1964.
She is thus closest to Terry Smith’s contemporaneous insistence on the intellectual seriousness of art criticism, requiring attention to structure, temporality, and contexts of meaning in modern and postmodern art, though she is less theoretical, meta-critical or programmatic than Smith.
Givanni has served on film juries at African film festivals such as FESPACO (from 1985), Zanzibar Festival of the Dhow Countries, the All Africa Film Awards in South Africa, the JCCarthage and others.
Education Redler-Hawes has a degree in Fine art Painting from Norwich University of the Arts 1989 - 1991 and a second degree in Curating from the Royal College of Art 1994 - 1996.
The inaugural award was bestowed on Margaret Myers, Director, Office of Library Personnel Resources of the American Library Association in 1984.
As Barry spent the war years going to the cinema, when she wrote her book Let's go to the pictures (1926), she explicitly stated: "Going to the pictures is nothing to be ashamed of" (p.
She has been working with new media, performance, and interdisciplinary arts for more than 30 years.
Crandall and his team rode out a storm for six days before they were rescued, and he arrived back in New York after a 44-day voyage, having not lost a single specimen.
DE librarians also assist faculty with designing course-specific web-pages and provide copyright advisement.
Dixon left Carnegie Museum of Art in 1975, and William Judson, a film professor at the University of Pittsburgh, succeeded her as curator.
Career Artwork Rafiee embarked on her career as an artist in 2001, when she participated in a group exhibition in Tehran.
He appears in the video game Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine (1999) in the secret level "Return to Peru", where Indiana returns to the same temple and finds the second idol.
His paleontological research led to his work on the fossil birds Palaeochenoides mioceanus and Nesotrochis debooyi.
While editor of The American Archivist she emphasized technical rather than scholarly issues, believing that archival records were useful in ways other than scholarly research.
Black Radical Imagination Black Radical Imagination is an international film program founded by Erin Christovale and Amir George.
Dennis Lim is a New York-based film curator and critic who has served as the artistic director of the New York Film Festival, since 2020.
Early life and education Âhasiw Maskêgon-Iskwêw (Donald Ghostkeeper) was born in 1958 in McLennan, Alberta.
Biography Born in Portsmouth, in Saint John Parish, Dominica, Lennox Honychurch can trace his lineage in the Caribbean back to the 1790s.
Adrian Stimson: Maanipokaa'iini at Remai Modern (April 2 to September 4, 2022) was the first survey exhibition of this Siksika Nation artist, and was accompanied by a monograph publication.
On Gadot's casting as Wonder Woman, Snyder said "Wonder Woman is arguably one of the most powerful female characters of all time and a fan favorite in the DC Universe.
In 2002, she co-founded the Master's Program in Curatorial Practice at the California College of the Arts (CCA) in San Francisco, the first program of its kind on the West Coast.
Pele's attack devastates much of the countryside and brings harm to many Hawaiians, making Silversword realize how evil the goddess is.
Between 2019 and 2023, she was an associate professor of Indigenous art history at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, where she held the University Research Chair in Indigenous Circumpolar Arts.
He has written a book about the work of South Korean filmmaker Hong Sang-soo, which was published in 2022, and a book on David Lynch, published in 2015.
He attended school in Willowmore until the age of 13, completed his primary education at Wesbank Primary School in Oudtshoorn, and later moved with his family to Uniondale, where he attended Uniondale High School from 2000 onward.
Doctor O's inner world was left to bare in a collaboration with Turner-prize nominated artist, Heather Phillipson, entitled, My Life in the Metaverse.
Her work also extends to festival direction, workshops, and conferences speaking on Ugandan arts and heritage.
In November 1948, Card joined the staff of the newly created George Eastman House with the initial title of "assistant to the curator", who was Beaumont Newhall.
Curatorial and arts administration Maskêgon-Iskwêw maintained an active curatorial practice across Canada.
The exhibition received an Award for Excellence from the Association of Art Museum Curators in 2023.
Biography Daina graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from Emily Carr Institute of Art and Design (ECUAD) in 2003 and gained an MA Critical and Curatorial Studies from the University of British Columbia in 2012.
Archivists process the records physically by placing them in acid-free folders and boxes to ensure their long-term survival.
1959 The Wonderful World of the Air (Garden City Books) 1960 Nature: Earth, Plants, Animals (Macdonald) with Julian Huxley.
In 2018, Igloliorte was also appointed curatorial lead for the inaugural exhibition at the Inuit Art Centre at the Winnipeg Art Gallery.
In June 2017, he was awarded an honorary doctorate in literature by Kabale University for promoting culture.
Elvira Espejo Ayca (born 1981) is an Indigenous Bolivian artist, poet, and the director of the National Museum of Ethnography and Folklore in La Paz until 2020.
In 1955, Card discovered Louise Brooks living as a recluse in New York City and persuaded her to move to Rochester, New York, to be near the George Eastman House.
Wetmore is commemorated in the scientific names of one species and two subspecies of reptiles: Pholidoscelis wetmorei, Uromacer frenatus wetmorei, and Anolis brevirostris wetmorei.
This stewardship is usually outside the acceptance of authority figures, hence the guerrilla or underground nature of the action taken.
Selected curatorial projects Located in the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver, British Columbia, Hogue co-founded Gam Gallery in 2009, an exhibition space and artist studio that operated until 2019.
In the 2022 New Year Honours, Māhina-Tuai was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to cultures and the arts.
The Collector re-appeared when the Avengers fought Thane Ector and the Brethren, who were noted to have escaped from the Collector's collection.
This prestigious grande école (literally, "grand schools") offers a diploma in "Archivist-Paleography", created in 1849, after a three-year curriculum.
References External links ArCHIAM: Decoration and Construction of Omani Traditional Architecture National Museum (Oman): Our Staff YouTube: Magan and Copper - National Museum of Oman
During this period Barakat began to work with materials such as local clay (and he added hay for consistency), wood and fire.
He appears in the second half of the episode Young Indiana Jones and the Curse of the Jackal (later edited into the second half of the film Spring Break Adventure), where he encounters a 16-year-old Indiana Jones in Mexico.
As a result, the following year, he was appointed a professor at the new Princely Academy of Saint Sava in Bucharest.
In 2024, she was a speaker for the exhibition GAUGUIN’S WORLD: Tōna Iho, Tōna Ao at the National Gallery of Australia (Canberra), in connection with the Savage Klub and its founder Rosanna Raymond, and supported the participation of Tahitian artist Tahe Drollet.
"The Latin American Spirit: Art and Artists in the United States" (Co-written), English, also available in Spanish, Bronx Museum of the Arts/Harry Abrams, New York, U.S.A., 1989.
The same year, Christensen also developed a short film series to tell the stories of small rural communities across southern Alberta and Saskatchewan, The Grasslands Project.
In 2015, Christensen produced Guy Maddin and Evan Johnson's feature, The Forbidden Room, and the feature documentary Hadwin's Judgement, based in part on John Vaillant's book The Golden Spruce about Grant Hadwin.
Stirbei donated two paintings from his own collection to start the gallery; one by Gheorghe Tattarescu, who was studying in Rome, and one by Petre Alexandrescu.
She previously studied for a BA degree in Heritage and Cultural Studies from Curtin University (formally known as Western Australian Institute of Technology) in Perth.
Here, Kholeif was "charged with overseeing the foundation's acquisition strategy, developing exhibitions and other programming, and securing international partnerships".
The first consecutive screenings took place in 2013 in Los Angeles, New York, and Chicago between Feb-May.
He noted the need for Wikipedia to strengthen partnerships with museums to create the most up-to-date and accurate information, saying "we are doing the same thing for the same reason, for the same people, in the same medium.
Paradoxically, these final works are bolder, more confident, broader, than anything Klee had done before.
Several taxa of birds have been named in his honor, including the Cretaceous genus Alexornis and the tanagers Wetmorethraupis sterrhopteron and Buthraupis wetmorei.
Designed as a playspace for children, its design was inspired by modernist buildings in the country, including Qatar Post, Qatar University, the Sheraton Grand Doha Resort & Convention Hotel, Qatar National Theatre and the Qatar Ministry of Information building.
He later attended Joseph Ayo Babalola University, Osun State, where he completed his tertiary education, graduating in November 2024.
Silversword joins Superboy and Green Lantern and attacks Pele, but is badly damaged by her lava attacks.
In this way, Martín created a process where Mexican artistic production gradually began to be intertwined with the international art scene.
His father, Arturo Angel Vallejo, was manager of the Pan American Life Insurance Company in Medellin, Colombia.
As an art curator and impresario, he is the founder of Plexus International, an international cooperative arts organizations whose participants have included Butch Morris, Lorenzo Pace, Miguel Algarin, William Parker, Shalom Neuman, and Stephen DiLauro.
After receiving an Aboriginal Curatorial Collective Residency to work with grunt gallery in Vancouver, British Columbia in 2000, Daina remained at the gallery as associate curator and administrator until 2009.
References External links David Christensen at IMDb War Hospital at the National Film Board of Canada
Sandro Dernini (born 1949 in Cagliari, Sardinia, Italy) is an Italian visual artist, curator, and biochemist.
Nanibush has been an active community organizer participating in demonstrations against the Iraq War and uranium processing, and raising awareness about the relationship between racism and lack of education.
From 2016 to 2018 he was the director of The Palestinian Museum in Birzeit (25 km north of Jerusalem), which was officially inaugurated in May 2016.
Career Throughout 2003 Ooi worked on a number of regional projects in various capacities with institutions and galleries in Southeast Asia focusing mainly on Malaysian, Indonesian and Filipino contemporary art.
As part of the role, Nanibush created a new Indigenous Curator position and co heads the department with Georgiana Uhlyarik, the curator of Canadian Art.
However, some concerns have always intrigued me, and those are related to man's behavior, socio-culturally speaking...I think people can see that as a constant in my work throughout the many—and sometimes different stages...
During her tenure, as a consequence of the Sudanese Civil War, objects from the collections of the National Museum of Sudan were stolen, and some were found being sold on at the border with, and within, South Sudan.
He wrote, among others, for The Village Voice, Vice, Variety, Vanity Fair, LA Weekly, Indiewire, Filmmaker Magazine, GreenCine Daily (editor from 2009 to 2013), and Spin.
In other media Television The Collector appears in Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H., voiced by Jeff Bennett.
Li was among the Hong Kong film critics who signed Edward Yang's Taiwan Film Manifesto, which marked the beginning of the Taiwan New Cinema.
The exhibition, co-sponsored by the Metropolitan Museum and the City Center of Music and Drama in New York, showed seventy films dating from the medium's first seventy-five years on thirty-five consecutive evenings from July 29 to September 3, 1970.
He was approached by the princess of the Tengu world Nyotengu, proving his might as a man who ended Bankotsubo’s crime, sparring her and tells her to leave human world, satisfying her as well.
Baduarius (Greek: Βαδουάριος) is a figure of 6th century Constantinople, known only from a single inscription in an epitaph.
In 2001, he translated American film theorist David Bordwell's Planet Hong Kong: Popular Cinema and the Art of Entertainment into Chinese, after the two had befriended each other in 1995 during Bordwell's visit to the HKIFF.
Their editorial suggested that physicians should be delegating their information needs to informationists, just as they currently order CT scans from radiologists or cardiac catheterizations from cardiologists.
In 2017, Nanibush and Georgiana Uhlyarik renamed the department of Canadian Art, the department of Indigenous and Canadian Art, and developed a new nation to nation model of sharing power.
A public appeal allowed the seabird island of Copinsay, Orkney, to be purchased as a permanent nature reserve dedicated to his name.
Together with Hammer Museum senior curator Anne Ellegood, Christovale curated the museum's fourth Made in L.A.
From the museum's inception until his retirement in 1977, Card built the collection and gave it an international identity.
Because she experienced for herself how women were disadvantaged in the archive profession, she encouraged women through publications in De Hollandsche Lelie not to be inferior to men in terms of education, because she had noticed that in cases of equal suitability men were often given preference.
Pharmaceutical/Neutraceutical Industry In 2001, Subramanian co-founded DESA India, a Supply Chain Management company in Pharmaceutical Chemicals in Bangalore, India.
Notes References "James Card; Telluride Film Festival Co-Founder", Los Angeles Times, January 21, 2000.
In 2022 he worked as an A&R and creative contributor on Yamen Yamen, a collective music album released by Drummr Africa, which involved artists from multiple African countries.
Hogue co-organized the touring exhibition, #callresponse with Maria Hupfield and Tania Willard, which was first held at grunt gallery in 2016.
Her work frequently explores themes of identity, gender representation, social transformation, and cultural memory.
A chance conversation with his class president, the nephew of the Treasurer of the New York Zoological Society (now the Wildlife Conservation Society), led to an interview with Director of the New York Zoological Park (now the Bronx Zoo), William T.
Legacy Karwemera founded the Bakiga Cultural Museum in Kabale (sometimes referred to as The Home of Edirisa Museum or locally Akehongo Kabaana Ba Karwemera (Karwemera's Children's Hiding Place)).
2016 – Unceded Territories: Lawrence Paul Yuxweluptun, the Museum of Anthropology at UBC (as a co-curator) 2016 – Nanitch: Early Photographs of British Columbia from the Langmann Collection (as co-curator), Presentation House Gallery, renamed The Polygon Gallery, North Vancouver, Canada.
With Leach Decter, "(official denial) trade value in progress: Unsettling Narratives" in Reconcile This!
At the age of fourteen, she wanted to be a chef and as she grew up her interests shifted to designing furniture.
She is a member of the House of Henckel von Donnersmarck, an Austro-German noble family that once owned large estates in Silesia.
Jepchumba graduated with a degree in Critical Social Thinking, and later completed a Masters in Digital Media at the London Metropolitan University.
Prior to that, she served as Director of the City of New York Department of Cultural Affairs Percent for Art Program (2008–2014) and Associate Dean of the School of Art, The Cooper Union.
From 2007 to 2019, Henckel-Donnersmarck served as a member of the Berlin International Film Festival's Berlinale Shorts selection committee.
After working for two decades in private industry, he joined CSIRO to oversee aquatic insect collections and later assisted the NSW Environmental Protection Authority with invertebrate identification.
In 2016, he curated a documentary screening series on the People's Socialist Republic of Albania for the Cinéma du Réel at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, France.
King Charles V of France began his own library, and he kept his collection as a bibliophile, an attribute that is closely connected to librarians of this time.
Her maternal grandmother is from Derry, while her Palestinian father was born in the village of Delhamiya.
Research and publications Books Koon is best known for her monograph on Japanese artist Yoshitomo Nara, published by Phaidon Press in 2020.
During her time there, she significantly expanded the organization's international reach and founded the Curatorial Intensive, the first short-term professional training program for curators.
His recent productions also include Everything Will Be, a 2014 documentary film about the fate of Vancouver's Chinatown, for which he approached Vancouver filmmaker Julia Kwan to direct her first non-fiction film.
She presents the Whitney as both a powerful institutional arbiter and a focus of ritualised criticism, comparable in role, if not magnitude, to the Sydney Biennale.
MoMA PS1 and Hearthland Foundation (2019–present) In 2019, Fowle succeeded Klaus Biesenbach as the director of MoMA PS1 in Queens, New York.
She designs short film video installations for exhibitions and concerts and worked as a lecturer on film theory and video practice.
(Film Threat) gave a similarly positive review, calling it "a wistful, thought-provoking rumination on the cost of progress." Hillis is one of the programmers at Cucalorus Film Festival (in Wilmington, North Carolina), where he curates the "Convulsions" genre program since 2013.
The Travel Sheet made it possible for filmmakers to book additional screenings and in-person presentations, which became primary sources of income, exposure, and dialogue for artists during this early period of new media's institutionalization.
Career Māhina-Tuai's research focuses on the history of Tongan crafts, in particular textiles, and her research is based on the primary importance of Tongan indigenous knowledge.
His paintings have been used in many books about the Titanic, most notably his depictions of the sinking, of which no photographs that could be used were taken.
He was curator of Canadian art at the Art Gallery of Ontario from 2004 until 2012, when he was succeeded by Andrew Hunter.
To prepare for the embedded informationist role, librarians are undertaking education as needed to supplement their backgrounds.
Holloway does insist on the politically and culturally radical properties of particular postmodern artistic practices, but these remain, not coincidentally, the practices of an engaged feminist art.
"Ron was the one who was crucial to allow the project to start, and the rest is history," said Lorraine Slater, executive director of the "Gorilla Foundation of Woodside" and http://www.koko.org.
Artwork McMaster draws and paints with humour and an ironic juxtaposition of traditional and contemporary pop culture elements.
Nanibush has a long-standing relationship with Anishinaabe multimedia artist Rebecca Belmore and has curated a series of shows featuring her work including KWE: Photography, Sculpture, Video and Performance by Rebecca Belmore (2014) at the Justina M.
Protesters in Paris included the student activist Daniel Cohn-Bendit from University of Nanterre-Paris.
Moira Zeta Enetama is a Niuean curator and cultural activist, who, as of 2021, was acting director of the Ministry of Social Services in Niue.
She also worked for many years as a curator at the Greenland National Museum, serving as director from 1982 until her retirement in 2004.
In recognition of her work, she was invited to participate in the project 9 Curators, organized by Gerardo Mosquera and the Spanish Cultural Centers in Argentina and Chile.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Tsui introduced a remastered classics screening program at the Cinematheque.
Before becoming Director Asia for Art Basel, Ooi worked as Art Basel's VIP Relations Manager for Southeast Asia, covering Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam for two years.
In 2012, Celluloid Man, an award-winning documentary was made on his life and works, by Shivendra Singh Dungarpur.
Her Amerasinghe Ganendra Collection of Modern and Contemporary Art includes extensive holdings of Sri Lankan and Malaysian works, including one of the largest private collections of artworks by the Sri Lankan Group of '43 (Modernists).
The ABA also requires a library's collection to meet the academic needs of the students and research and teaching needs of the faculty.
When Felix was 16, his father allowed him to take art courses at the Institute of Fine Arts of Medellin, which he paid for (during this time, Felix was still in High School).
Between December 2008 and March 2010, the Migraciones: Mirando al Sur exhibit traveled through Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Mexico, United States of America, and Costa Rica—showing at the Spanish Cultural Centers of each country.
References External links Official website Ken Marschall at IMDb Artist Biography Archived 2016-06-12 at the Wayback Machine
External links ALIA: Careers in Library and Information Management Archived 2021-11-22 at the Wayback Machine U.S.
Beginning in the 1960s, he collaborated with Tony Watson on the taxonomy and ecology of Australian dragonflies, particularly their value as environmental indicators.
Conservation work Conradie has participated in several projects under the EDGE of Existence Programme of the Zoological Society of London.
In the film, Short Round is frequently heard speaking Cantonese (despite being born in Wu-speaking Shanghai), as well as English.
In 2009 the United States Department of State, Office of Weapons Removal and Abatement granted the Landmine Relief Fund US$100,000 to help CSHD in their work to clear ERW (explosive remnants of war) in "low priority villages" in Cambodia.
The sculptural installation consists of a ceremonial cape, photographs, and materials such as Lauhala, coconut hull fiber, seagrass, red cedar bark, wool, abalone shell, and mother of pearl buttons that are used by makers from the Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish) and Hawaiian territories.
Career Henckel-Donnersmarck worked as a film programmer and presenter at Stuttgarter Filmwinter, Kasseler Dokfest, Zebra Poetry Film Festival, Pictoplasma, Internationales Animationfilm-Festival Stuttgart, the Szpilman Award, and Filmfest Dresden.
2006 - “About feminist art and socially, politically engaged art,” seminar at the Institute of Human Rights and Democracy (IHRD), Yerevan.
Kolokesa Uafā Māhina-Tuai is a Tongan curator and writer, whose work explores the role of craft in Tongan society.
Wasson elaborates on MoMA's Film Library's effort to create modern audience for art cinema by employing overt disciplinary strategies.
She was the curator of the 15th Sharjah Biennial in 2023, titled "Thinking Historically in the Present" which was originally to be curated by the late Okwui Enwezor.
Ken Marschall (born October 28, 1950) is an American painter and illustrator notable for his paintings of famous ocean liners, such as the RMS Titanic, RMS Lusitania, and HMHS Britannic, and other transportation vessels including the Bismarck, LZ 127 Graf Zeppelin and LZ 129 Hindenburg.
He obtained his PhD from the School of Education of New York University and his doctorate in biology from the University of Cagliari in Italy.
She is the author of numerous monographs and critical texts for publications, catalogs, and art books.
Art career Merhi has produced a variety of works that engage electronic circuits, computers, video game systems, touch screens, and other devices in the presentation of his written words.
Casa Wabi Foundation In 2014, Martín conceived the program under which Fundación Casa Wabi operates.
The Collector makes a cameo appearance in the mid-credits scene of Thor: The Dark World (2013), in which Sif and Volstagg give the Aether to him for safekeeping as they feel it is too dangerous to have it near the Tesseract since both contain Infinity Stones.
Al Qasimi was named the most influential person in the contemporary art world in 2024, according to ArtReview’s Power 100 list.
Also an artist and a curator, he was largely responsible for compiling the exhibit information for The Dominica Museum in Roseau.
Variable coloration by chromatophores Chromatophores are special pigment-containing cells that may change their size, but more often retain their original size but allow the pigment within them to become redistributed, thus varying the colour and pattern of the animal.
However some of these species undergo morphological color change over their lifetimes, growing to be a gold or white color pattern as an adult.
It concludes by urging readers to compare the book with Darwin's Descent of Man and with Wallace's Darwinism.
Evidently, alarm signals promote survival by allowing the receivers of the alarm to escape from the source of peril; this can evolve by kin selection, assuming the receivers are related to the signaller.
Some studies suggest that the northern shrike (Lanius excubitor) sings in winter often imitating small passerines that may be preyed upon when lured within reach.
The fungus obtains nutrition from carbohydrates on the egg's surface, without harming the egg itself.
The potential host (or prey) drives away its parasite (or predator) by mimicking it, the reverse of host–parasite aggressive mimicry.
These genes are the transcription factor Distalless (Dll) and the ligand (a signalling substance that binds a cell surface receptor) Hedgehog (Hh).
At least six species of horned lizards are able to squirt an aimed stream of blood from the corners of their eyes, up to 5 feet (1.5 m).
The insects have historically been eaten by Native Americans, who fried them or roasted them in hot ovens, stirring them until they were well browned.
They found that if larvae from an existing population of black mutants were raised at 20˚C, then all the final instar larvae were black; but if the larvae were instead raised at 28˚C, the final instar larvae ranged in color from black to green.
In many chromodorid nudibranchs, they take in distasteful and toxic chemicals emitted from sponges and store them in their repugnatorial glands (located around the mantle edge).
Researchers found that frequencies of Tf alleles of the Siberian reindeer differed from all the others.
Not all amphibians which display unkenreflexes possess aposematic coloring, nor do all amphibians display unkenreflex to the same degree.
He noted a case in the European nightjar, when a bird led him around the nest several times but made no attempt to lure him away.
This species, and others in its genus, have been extensively studied for understanding the genetic basis for polymorphism and Batesian mimicry.
"The palatability of the eggs of birds: illustrated by three seasons' experiments (1947, 1948 and 1950) on the food preferences of the Rat (Rattus norvegicus); and with special reference to the protective adaptations of eggs considered in relation to vulnerability".
Two different species of milkweed bug in the family Hemiptera, Lygaeus kalmii and large milkweed bug (Oncopeltus fasciatus), are colored with bright orange and black, and are said to be aposematically colored, in that they "advertise" their distastefulness by being brightly colored.
The ghillie suit was developed by Scottish gamekeepers for hunting deer, and adapted initially by a Scottish Highland regiment, the Lovat Scouts, for military use.
European grass snake (Natrix natrix), which secretes blood from the lining of the mouth while playing dead.
Volvation (from Latin volvere "roll", and the suffix -(a)tion; sometimes called enrolment or conglobation) is a defensive behavior of certain animals in which the animal rolls its body into a ball, presenting only the hardest parts of its integument (the animal's "armor") or its spines to predators.
In 2015–2016 studies, genome sequencing revealed a 240 kilobase haplotype encompassing the ALX1 gene that encodes a transcription factor affecting craniofacial development is strongly associated with beak shape diversity.
Such animals, like the tawny dragon lizard, may resemble rocks, sand, twigs, leaves, and even bird droppings (mimesis).
Nutritional rewards As long as natural enemies have some potential to be omnivorous, plants can provide food resources to encourage their retention and increase the impact they have on herbivore populations.
Intensity of display has been shown to decrease as the distance of the predator from the nest increases, perhaps representing the balancing of risk to the displaying parent and to the vulnerable young.
Animals may also use gaping as part of a courtship display, or to otherwise communicate with each other.
He continued to work from time to time after his retirement, for instance conducting a survey of crocodile nests on the Victoria Nile for the Uganda National Parks in 1972.
Alternatively, prey animals might be sufficiently gregarious to form clusters tight enough to enhance the warning signal.
A number of other aquatic molluscs have similar responses to attack, including the gastropod clade known as sea hares.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
It was Sheppard who found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
In his wartime lectures at Farnham Castle, he described nine categories of visual deception: merging, e.g.
There is also statistical evidence of change with time, based both on comparisons between sub-fossil and modern shells, and on resampling the same sites some decades apart, although the latter has more often found little change over the period (stasis).
Some species of caterpillar, such as those of hawkmoths (Sphingidae), have eyespots on their anterior abdominal segments.
Ultrasound avoidance in moths The idea that moths were able to hear the cries of echolocating bats dates back to the late 19th century.
Their calls differ based on signaller sex, threat type, habitat, and caller ontogenetic or lifetime predator experience.
Different pigmentation patterns provide appropriate camouflage throughout the seasons, as well as alter heat retention as temperatures change.
During the American Civil War, rifle units such as the Union army's 1st United States Sharpshooters wore green jackets while most Union units wore more conspicuous blue uniforms.
However, it currently remains unclear if any of the antitumor activity of squid ink can be obtained from oral consumption, and this is indicated as an area for future investigation.
Also, not only is polymorphism absent from these mimics, it is absent in the wasps also: these facts are presumably connected.
The females that change sex are often those who attain and preserve an initial size advantage early in life.
Assuming equal viability of the genotypes 1,209 heterozygotes would be expected, so the field results do not suggest any heterozygous advantage.
Species 1 therefore gains n-⁠a1n/a1+a2⁠ = ⁠a2n/a1+a2⁠ and species 2 similarly gains ⁠a1n/a1+a2⁠ in absolute numbers of individuals not killed.
While admiring of Poulton's detailed observations, Cope was critical of his support for Darwin, arguing that Poulton failed to explain how the variability that natural selection needs to work on actually arises.
Military prototypes Active camouflage in the form of counter-illumination has rarely been used for military purposes, but it has been prototyped in ship and aircraft camouflage from the Second World War onwards.
The offspring can inherit a dominant allele from one parent and a recessive allele from the other parent, making them heterozygous with a genotype of Bb.
Many tarantula species eject bristles from their abdomens, directing them toward potential attackers.
There are numerous possible mechanisms, of which the best known are: Batesian mimicry, where an edible species resembles a distasteful or dangerous species.
Hugh Bamford Cott (6 July 1900 – 18 April 1987) was a British zoologist, an authority on both natural and military camouflage, and a scientific illustrator and photographer.
The bamboo stem was found among fossil plant remains in the deposits of the Chirang River and was noted for its unusual surface markings and intact structure.
However, since polymorphisms may occur at low allele frequency, this is not a reliable way to tell new mutations from polymorphisms.
show that to establish adaptive self-deception, biologists must quantify the cost and benefit of ignoring one's true competitive ability.
Implemented most often in the face of an imminent attack by a predator, unkenreflex is characterized by the subject’s contortion or arching of its body to reveal previously hidden bright colors of the ventral side, tail, or inner limb; the subject remains immobile while in unkenreflex.
Besides experimental research, the comparative method can also be employed to investigate hypotheses such as those given by Curio above.
For ships Diffused lighting camouflage, in which visible light is projected on to the sides of ships to match the faint glow of the night sky, was trialled by Canada's National Research Council from 1941 onwards, and then by the Royal Navy, during the Second World War.
Hedgehog The Hedgehog (Hh) gene is the other element that has been functionally tested in the formation of eyespots.
In Müllerian mimicry, inedible species, usually within a taxonomic order, find it advantageous to resemble each other so as to reduce the sampling rate by predators who need to learn about the insects' inedibility.
Like Abbott Thayer, he used his artistry in his scientific work, including in Adaptive Coloration in Animals, to help argue the case he was making.
Since each parent must have a copy of the recessive allele in order to have an affected offspring, the parents are referred to as carriers of the condition.
Some termites (such as the soldiers of Globitermes sulphureus) release a sticky secretion by rupturing a gland near the skin of their neck, producing a tar effect in defense against ants.
Distraction displays Distraction displays, also known as deflection displays and diversionary displays, are behaviours that draw the attention of a predator away from an object, typically the nest or young.
Inspired by the evolution from genotype to genome to pan-genome, a concept of eventually exploring the relationship among pan-phenome, pan-genome, and pan-envirome was proposed in 2023.
He recorded that the Arctic fox, Arctic hare, ermine and ptarmigan change their colour seasonally, and gave "the obvious explanation", that it was for concealment.
If it resembled its surroundings like the members of the other class, it would be liable to a great deal of accidental or experimental tasting, and there would be nothing about it to impress the memory of an enemy, and thus to prevent the continual destruction of individuals.
There is currently not enough empirical data on the subject for there to be a consensus among experts.
Fossil description The bamboo stem shows rare preservation of structural features, including nodes, buds, and scars left by thorns.
Classification The family Dinidoridae is subdivided into two subfamilies: the Dinidorinae, and the Megymeninae, with the genus Megymenum in the latter.
One type produces sounds as acoustic aposematism, warning the bats that the moths are unpalatable, or at least performing as acoustic mimics of unpalatable moths.
Olfactory Some animals, in both terrestrial and aquatic environments, appear to camouflage their odor, which might otherwise attract predators.
Behavior around eggs Octopuses have also been observed squirting ink at snails or crabs approaching their eggs.
In reptiles and mammals Some reptiles, such as the sand lizard of Europe, have eyespots; in the sand lizard's case, there is a row of spots along the back, and a row on each side.
Later research has discovered that the viceroy is, in fact more toxic than the monarch and this resemblance should be considered as a case of Müllerian mimicry.
Cytochrome P450 oxidases (or P-450), a specific class of MFO, have been specifically connected to detoxification of plant secondary metabolic products.
In Europe, there are three morphs: the typical white morph (betularia or typica), and carbonaria, the melanic black morph.
Self-decoration is seen in some insects such as caddis fly larvae, the nymphs of the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
(2006), Population Genetics and Microevolutionary Theory, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., ISBN 9-780-47140951-9
Some species of frogs are blinded by the quick changes in light, while nocturnal migratory birds may be disoriented, causing them to lose direction, tire out, or be captured by predators.
The adults of the various species now resemble each other so well that the species cannot be distinguished without close morphological observation and, in some cases, dissection or genetic analysis.
A good example is the Indian white admiral (Limenitis procris) which has five forms, each geographically separated from the other by large mountain ranges.
Camouflage Snow camouflage In his 1889 book Darwinism, the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace considered the white coloration of Arctic animals.
Disrupting perception of motion Disrupting the attacker's perception of the target's motion was one of the intended purposes of dazzle camouflage as used on ships in the First World War, though its effectiveness is disputed.
A study in 2020 found that the frequency and duration of tonic immobility was affected by the sex of the wasp and the temperature of the environment, but not the color of the background the wasp was on.
essentially the same as one widely practised during the Great War for the concealment, not of caterpillars, but of caterpillar-tractors, [gun] battery positions, observation posts and so forth." == References ==
The relationship with some of these animals, such as sea anemones is mutualistic; in the case of aposematic animals like stinging sea anemones, the crabs are making use of the warning coloration of these partners to ward off predators.
The heterozygote has a permanent advantage (a higher fitness) so long as malaria exists; and it has existed as a human parasite for a long time.
Morphogenesis Butterfly eyespots are formed during embryogenesis as a result of a morphogenetic signalling centre or organizer, called the focus.
These ants use autothysis as a self-destructive defense to protect their territory, but they use it differently from termites, in that their primary uses for autothysis do not include blocking the tunnels of their territory from attackers, but more so for combat purposes during territorial battles.
First, there is their characteristic haplodiploid sex determination system, whereby all males are haploid, and all females diploid.
The ambiguous uses of camouflage—drawing attention when a fashionable look and doing the opposite in military use—fascinated Warhol.
Kerr was accompanied by John Samuel Budgett, who studied the frogs of the area and discovered a new genus.
However, some birds (inexperienced starlings and domestic chicks) also innately avoid conspicuously coloured objects, as demonstrated using mealworms painted yellow and black to resemble wasps, with dull green controls.
Where the background is brighter than is possible even with white pigment, counter-illumination in marine animals, such as squid, can use light to match the background.
Properties and chemistry Cephalopod ink contains a number of chemicals in a variety of different concentrations, depending on the species.
Aggressive mimicry Chrysopidae lacewing larvae decorate themselves with a mixture of materials including moulted cuticle and their own droppings, which appears to serve both to camouflage the larvae and to repel predators.
Direct production occurs through the presence of visible coloured cells known as pigment which are particles of coloured material such as freckles.
Ecology Beetle larvae of the chrysomelid subfamilies Criocerinae and Galerucinae retain their feces in piles on their backs, regularly adding material as feces slips off.
In the deep waters that the hatchetfish lives in, only blue light with a wavelength of 500 nanometres percolates down and needs to be reflected, so mirrors 125 nanometres apart provide good camouflage.
"Advanced camouflage system and method, Patent application 11/159,911, Publication US 2005/0276955 A1".
He noted that "[t]he whole proceeding is most human and purposeful", and that if a Stenorhynchus crab is cleaned, it will "immediately begin to clothe itself again with the same care and precision as before".
Females tend to convert more food into fat, while males convert more into muscle and expendable circulating energy reserves.
Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats.
They can completely regenerate the autotomically released or otherwise damaged skin tissue — regrowing hair follicles, skin, sweat glands, fur and cartilage with little or no scarring.
Mimicry Batesian Batesian mimicry, named for the 19th century naturalist Henry Walter Bates who first noted the effect in 1861, "provides numerous excellent examples of natural selection" at work.
In one study he found that of 123 species of bird, the kittiwake eggs scored highly with 8.2 out of 10.
It was classified as "adventitious protection" by Edward Bagnall Poulton in 1890, and as "adventitious concealing coloration" or "adventitious resemblance" by Hugh Bamford Cott in 1940, who compared it to the way Australian aborigines stalked waterfowl, covering their faces with water lily leaves.
Phylogeny A number of phylogenies, both molecular and morphological, have been produced for Darwin's finches.
The ants use this self-sacrifice to kill one or more enemies which entangle themselves in this sticky substance.
americanorum (now more commonly known as Bombus pensylvanicus), which is noxious to predators due to its sting.
The ink and opaline has been demonstrated to stimulate appetitive and ingestive behaviours, though opaline differs in the sense in that it inhibits ingestion.
Autotomy Some animals are capable of autotomy (self-amputation), shedding one of their own appendages in a last-ditch attempt to elude a predator's grasp or to distract the predator and thereby allow escape.
Some owlfly larvae, which are ambush predators, similarly self-decorate, hiding until prey comes within range.
Notch The Notch (N) gene expression precedes an upregulation of Dll in the cells that will become the center of the focus.
Up to five bands (very rarely more) run spirally around the shell, numbered 1 to 5 with the larger numbers further from the shell apex.
The decorator crabs attach plants, animals, small stones, or shell fragments to their carapaces to provide camouflage that matches the local environment.
The determining gene (or super-gene) for the inheritance of egg colour is believed to be carried on the W chromosome, which is directly transmitted in the female line.
The second question is more difficult, and can also be rephrased as being about the mechanisms that keep warning signals honest.
Other types of genetic marker, such as microsatellites, can have more than two alleles, and thus many different genotypes.
Over many generations, native species may evolve to be able to tolerate ingesting higher concentrations of toad toxins, or develop an innate ability to avoid consuming cane toad toxins.
Under crowded or "gregarious" conditions, the larvae have black bodies and yellow stripes along their bodies.
They are built on paired caudal processes (also called urogomphi) to the posterior end of the body; these processes move the shield over the body like an umbrella.
A genetic switch active in the cells of the embryo that will become the belly skin causes the Agouti gene to become active there, creating the countershading seen in adult mammals.
The body is short and does not extend as far as the supposed head, so that the insect is uninjured when it is seized.
Comparison of the observed paths with simulations of different pursuit strategies showed that these predatory birds used a motion camouflage path consistent with CATD.
Beetles Meloidae (blister beetles) – their haemolymph contains cantharidin that they sequester from plants on which they feed.
Eyespot markings may play a role in intraspecies communication or courtship; a well-known example is the eyespots on a peacock's display feathers.
Underwater camouflage is the set of methods of achieving crypsis—avoidance of observation—that allows otherwise visible aquatic organisms to remain unnoticed by other organisms such as predators or prey.
Outline obliteration from above Rowland (2009) identified an additional mechanism of countershading not previously analysed, namely that a round body such as a cylinder illuminated and seen from above appears to have dark sides.
Centipedes' last segments often mimic their heads by having a similar coloration and having the ultimate legs mimicking the antennae; this is thought to prevent predators from telling apart their heads, which have forcipules, from their arguably defenseless last trunk segments.
One example are trees growing in the woods developing long straight trunks, with branching crowns high in the canopy, while the same species growing alone in the open develops a spreading form, branching much lower to the ground.
In some cases, the variation in larval type is a 'plastic' trait in that it is environmentally mediated.
Kerr again influenced British camouflage in the Second World War, this time through his pupil Hugh B.
Another example is harbor seals eating juvenile salmon that moved down a river lit by nearby artificial lighting.
The active strategy was described as a "phantom echo" that might therefore represent "auditory crypsis" with alternative theories about interfering with the bats' echolocation ("jamming").
The results were intensely controversial, and from 2001 Michael Majerus carefully repeated the experiment.
When light falls from above on a uniformly coloured three-dimensional object such as a sphere, it makes the upper side appear lighter and the underside darker, grading from one to the other.
Evolutionary function Signalling One way that fish coloration can be categorized is into "static" or "dynamic" coloration/displays.
If predators switch between host plants that provide toxins and plants that do not, depending on the abundance of larvae on each type, then automimicry of toxic larvae by non-toxic larvae may be maintained in a balanced polymorphism.
Fourth level deception involves recognition of the other animal's beliefs, as when a chimpanzee tactically misleads other chimpanzees to prevent their discovering a food source.
Applications An example of the usage of SSLPs (microsatellites) is seen in a study by Rosenberg et al., where SSLPs were used to cluster different continental populations of human beings.
Another example of physiological color change is in the body and the eyes of guppy juveniles and Nile tilapia.
dardanus population on Pemba Island, Tanzania functions to avoid detection from a mate-searching male.
Significance The fossil represents the first known evidence that thorny bamboo existed in Asia during the Ice Age.
It is caused by a contraction of muscles around a large gland that leads to the breaking of the gland wall.
However, once model and mimic have become closely similar, some degree of mutual protection becomes likely.
In Lepidoptera, sexual dimorphism is widespread and almost completely determined by genetic determination.
Once amplified, polymorphisms and mutations in the sequence can be detected by DNA sequencing, either directly or after screening for variation with a method such as single strand conformation polymorphism analysis.
In the study on 2061 cattle in 14 herds over 4 years, 683 were given eye markings, 543 were painted with crosses, and 835 were unpainted.
Spectacular examples occur in the hairstreak butterflies; when perching on a twig or flower, they commonly do so upside down and shift their rear wings repeatedly, causing antenna-like movements of the "tails" on their wings.
Acoustic sensory receptors in noctuid moths are mechanoreceptors located in a chamber formed by the wall of the abdomen and the tympanic membrane, and they are most sensitive to lower frequencies of ultrasound (between 20 and 30 kHz.).
Besides the directional selection favouring camouflaged individuals, visually searching predators might cause apostatic selection.
Hiding strategy The spotty bobtail squid releases ropes of ink longer than itself and hides among them, possibly to be confused with floating seagrass leaves.
Legacy The Zoology Building of the University of Glasgow was renamed the Graham Kerr Building in his name.
Pouyannian In Pouyannian mimicry, named after the French lawyer and amateur botanist Maurice-Alexandre Pouyanne, flowers mimic a male pollinator's potential female mate, visually or with other stimuli.
False head Many insects have filamentous "tails" at the ends of their wings and patterns of markings on the wings themselves.
Further, it grades into other means of protection including "the borrowing of protection from aposematic partners" and the use of "fortified hiding-places" and burrows.
Domatia Certain tropical plants host colonies of ants in their hollow domatia and provide the ants with nutrition delivered from nectaries or food bodies.
When the mimics continue to outnumber the model there is also a stronger selective advantage for the predator to distinguish mimic from model.
Zoology Kerr interrupted his medical studies to join an Argentinian expedition to study the natural history of the Pilcomayo River.
Heterophylly Heterophylly is the presence of two or more different forms of leaves within an individual.
Cott compares the way Australian aborigines once used water lily leaves over their faces to swim towards waterfowl until they were close enough to catch them by the legs.
A classic example is the ABO blood group system in humans, where both the A and B alleles are expressed when they are present.
The first is the release of large amounts of ink into the water by the cephalopod in order to create a dark, diffuse cloud (much like a smoke screen) that can obscure the predator's view, allowing the cephalopod to make a rapid retreat by jetting away.
Whatever the mechanism, palatability may vary with age, sex, or how recently they used their supply of toxin.
Peppered moth The peppered moth, Biston betularia, is justly famous as an example of a population responding in a heritable way to a significant change in their ecological circumstances.
Eventually all the males will have the characteristics that the females are sexually selecting for, as only those males can reproduce.
It is unclear why these amputations occur, as oarfish have no documented natural predators, so it is unlikely to be a predation response.
In this second type of autotomy the lizard contracts a muscle to fracture a vertebra, rather than break the tail between two vertebrae.
Variation in PTC perception may reflect variation in dietary preferences throughout human evolution, and might correlate with susceptibility to diet-related diseases in modern populations.
Sheppard found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
He presented results showing that in a polluted urban wood with dark tree trunks, dark moths survived better than pale ones, causing industrial melanism, whereas in a clean rural wood with paler trunks, pale moths survived better than dark ones.
Cane toads are especially susceptible to native arthropods, which do not appear to experience any adverse effects from ingesting cane toad toxins.
Numerous arthropods, both insects and spiders, mimic ants, whether to avoid predation, to hunt ants, or (as in the large blue butterfly caterpillar) to trick the ants into feeding them.
For example, when he crossed a tall plant with a short plant, all the resulting plants would be tall.
Other researchers, generally those who support the selfish gene theory, question the authenticity of this "altruistic" behaviour.
This may be a form of deimatic behaviour, colloquially known as a startle display or threat display, as it enlarges the appearance of the animal, and for those with teeth it shows the threat that these represent.
For instance, genomic variations such as drought and heat resistance can be identified through phenomics to create more durable GMOs.
These SSLPs were extremely useful to the experiment because they do not affect the phenotypes of the individuals, thus being unaffected by natural selection.
Another beetle with a distinct horn-related sexual dimorphism is Allomyrina dichotoma, also known as the Japanese rhinoceros beetle.
One case is the golden orb weaver (Nephila clavipes), which spins a conspicuous golden coloured web in well-lit areas.
Both male and female puffins use gaping as a prominent part of their threat display, with "a range of intensities" based on the situation, and with puffins engaging in territorial gape contests, where they mirror each other until one gives up and leaves, or an actual fight occurs.
Attack protection Inking has been shown to protect species of squids against predatory fish attacks, as well during the capture phase as during the consummatory phase, due to visual and chemical effects of the ink released.
Cott used the example of the larva of the blotched emerald moth, which fixes a screen of fragments of leaves to its specially hooked bristles, to argue that military camouflage had used the same method, pointing out that the "device is ...
Natural enemies that make use of domatia are often said to serve as "bodyguards" for the plant on or in which they live.
In the latter type of moth, detailed analyses failed to support a "phantom echo" mechanism underlying sonar jamming, but instead pointed towards echo interference.
Subsequent research has provided evidence for only two functions of moth sounds, neither of which involve "auditory crypsis".
See also Animal suicide Anti-predator adaptation Apoptosis Autohaemorrhaging Exploding animal Self-destruct == References ==
However, a low rodent population in a given year may result in lower birth rates among foxes for that year, thereby resulting in a higher proportion of older, more experienced foxes in the population in the following year.
It was found that the moths' responses vary according to ultrasound intensity, diving towards the ground if the pulse was of a high amplitude or flying directly away from the sound source if the sound amplitude was low (if the sound was softer).
His proposers were Sir Isaac Bayley Balfour, James Cossar Ewart, Frederick Orpen Bower, and James Geikie.
SSLPs are repeated sequences over varying base lengths in intergenic regions of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).
Male harbour seals show specific vocalization and diving behaviours while demonstrating such behaviours for possible mates.
The term poecilogony was coined by Alfred Mathieu Giard to describe a polymorphism in larval development in marine invertebrates.
Modern use of cephalopod ink is generally limited to cooking, primarily in Japan and the Mediterranean, where it is used as a food colouring and flavouring, for example in pasta and sauces, and calamares en su tinta.
This research also demonstrated that the brain is necessary for the response, since decapitated crickets will fly but show no avoidance response behaviors.
Some species preferentially select stinging animals such as sea anemones or noxious plants, benefiting from aposematism as well as or instead of crypsis.
Wilkinson successfully promoted the false idea that Kerr's camouflage sought invisibility rather than image disruption.
Countershading, the use of different colors on upper and lower surfaces in graduating tones from a light belly to a darker back, is common in the sea and on land.
This stands out and distracts the observer's attention from the true form and contour of the body and appendages on which it is superimposed".
This pattern implies that the rattling "could serve as a general attention-getting device", which "is designed as a deimatic or startle display".
Anthocyanins (literally "flower blue") are water-soluble flavonoid pigments that appear red to blue, according to pH.
"Targeting the Anuak: Human Rights Violations and Crimes Against Humanity in Ethiopia's Gambella Region" (PDF).
There has been an approximately decade long cycle of recurrent droughts in this part of east Africa since earlier in the 20th century and by the late 1970s signs of intensifying drought began to appear.
Some authors, like the Bosnian political theoretician Jasmin Hasanović, connect the emergence of ochlocracy in democratic societies with the decadence of democracy in neo-liberal Western societies, in which "the democratic role of the people has been reduced mainly to the electoral process".
Under the Transit treaty between Afghanistan and Pakistan a massive network for smuggling developed.
Party factionalism, corruption, personal rivalries, scandals, and political instability characterized the Sadiq regime.
The Molotov–Kuusinen agreement mentioned leasing the Hanko Peninsula, and determining the number of troops to be appointed in a separate agreement.
The propagandistic glorification of Mussolini also accompanied the party's transformation from 1926 onward.
Resolution 1989 dealt with sanctions relating to Al-Qaeda, while Resolution 1988 (2011) addressed sanctions against the Taliban.
Taliban The Taliban denied that the bounty program exists, with Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid saying that "our target killings and assassinations were ongoing in years before, and we did it on our own resources" without assistance from intelligence agencies.
China provided economic support to Mongolia by building factories and apartment blocks, and thousands of Chinese laborers were involved in the projects until they were withdrawn in 1962 in an unsuccessful bid to pressure Mongolia to break with the USSR during the Sino-Soviet split.
In a narrower sense, jihadism refers to the belief that armed struggle with political rivals is an efficient and theologically legitimate method of socio-political change.
Zemaryalai Tarzi, who was Afghanistan's chief archeologist in the 1970s, called it an "unacceptable decision".
This figure was updated, adding those counted by the South Asia Terrorism Portal but only concerning FATA and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and not the whole regions of the country.
Kayan Valley had functioned as a center for Ismaili political and military activities during the Soviet–Afghan War and subsequent civil conflict.
On 7 November 2014, Ehsan claimed responsibility for twin blasts that killed at least six people in Mohmand agency.
In October 2023, he launched a new social media account, Xenocosmography, marking a shift toward religious and numerological themes.
Similar proposals to those of the Prague Declaration received support in the European Parliament, which adopted a 2009 resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism.
Each Member State has its own approach to this issue but, in the interests of reconciliation, the memory of those crimes must be a collective memory, shared and promoted, where possible, by us all.
Timeline 2017 February 2017 On 13 February 2017, a suicide bombing took place on the Mall in Lahore, where a group of chemists and pharmaceutical personnel were demonstrating at the Charing Cross.
The assassin of former President Abdirashid Shermarke Ismail was tried, tortured, and executed by the Supreme Revolutionary Council.
Reason Wafawarova argued in 2008 that rigid approaches to democracy may undermine the ability for a developing country to achieve long-term stability and democracy.
In contrast, the Iron Guard in the Kingdom of Romania utilized a hardline form of mysticism-driven religion to encourage determination among the nation's ultranationalists.
However, Italy's conquests were always heavily contested, both by various insurgencies (most prominently the Greek resistance and Yugoslav partisans) and Allied military forces, which waged the Battle of the Mediterranean throughout and beyond Italy's participation.
The militants deliberately targeted civilians socializing outdoors, such as by executing an elderly florist serving religious travelers.
He also said that the agreed-upon period of reduction in violence was over and that operations against Afghan government forces could resume.
They confront the reader with the weight of past loss and the fear of an unknown future," adding that "despite their challenging nature, the pieces were deeply therapeutic." Karla Strand of Ms.
The Japanese had also assisted the formation of the Burma Independence Army (BIA), which aided the Japanese during their invasion.
Special Operations forces, among others the 7th Special Forces Group, 160th SOAR, Navy SEALs, and MARSOC Marines.
Although the Duke of Monmouth's rising of 1685 was the last rebellion, there was scarcely a year in which London or the provincial towns did not see aggrieved people breaking out into riots.
See also Presidential Commission of the Russian Federation to Counter Attempts to Falsify History to the Detriment of Russia's Interests Propaganda in the Russian Federation Russian web brigades == References ==
The Territory of the Al-Qaeda in Iraq or also Islamic Republic of Qaim during the occupation of Al-Qa'im in 2005, refers to the areas controlled by the Al-Qaeda in Iraq.
Doe's favoritism towards the Krahn people increased tensions by encouraging boundaries and status differences among native Liberian ethnic groups.
Among the founders of Lutte du Peuple were some dissident left-wing nationalists of the Ordre Nouveau and European socialists of the Pour une Jeune-Europe (not to be confused with Jeune-Europe headed by Thiriart), directed by Yves Batille.
Under Allende they were reorganised under the rubric National Confederation of Mothers' Centres (Confederación Nacional de Centros de Madres, COCEMA) and leadership of his wife, Hortensia Bussi, to encourage community initiatives and implement their policies directed at women.
When Bokassa declared that he was going to be hosting a coronation for himself as the emperor of the new Central African Empire, many of the novelties that attributed to the luxurious event came from France.
In 1985, Israel began to withdraw from Lebanon, as a result of domestic opposition in Israel and international pressure.
Miller would executive produce alongside fellow Handmaid's Tale executive producer Warren Littlefield of The Littlefield Company, with MGM Television as the studio.
All estates over 0.5 km2 in pre-war Polish territories and all over 1 km2 in former German territories were nationalised without compensation.
On 11 December 2020 Ziaulhaq Amarkhil the Governor of Nangarhar Province claimed on his Twitter account that Abdul Wali was killed by National Directorate of Security in the Chaparhar District although his death was not confirmed by the United States.
Land views capitalism as the driver of modernity and deterritorialization, advocating its use to dissolve existing social systems and reach a technological singularity.
Race Neoreactionaries endorse scientific racism, a pseudoscientific view which they refer to as "human biodiversity".
Hitler later dramatised an episode from this period when his father took him to visit a customs office, depicting it as an event that gave rise to an unforgiving antagonism between father and son, who were both strong-willed.
The Security Council reaffirmed Resolution 1373 (2001) and its determination to facilitate the implementation of counterterrorism obligations.
On 27 January 2003, during Operation Mongoose (War in Afghanistan), a band of fighters were assaulted by US forces at the Adi Ghar cave complex 25 km (15 mi) north of Spin Boldak.
The Agence France-Presse reported that Ansar Dine claimed to occupy the towns of Tinzaouaten, Tessalit, and Aguelhok, all close to the Algerian border, and that they had captured at least 110 civilian and military prisoners.
The term Talibanization (or Talibanisation) refers to a type of Islamist practice that emerged following the rise of the Taliban movement in Afghanistan, where other religious groups or movements come to follow or imitate the strict practices of the Taliban.
Boys' education emphasized discipline and physical training, while girls were taught to become supportive wives and caring mothers to breed a stronger, healthier new generation.
One criticism is that interests, both social and economic, are so diverse that a state cannot possibly define or organize them effectively by incorporating them.
Bush described his objectives for post-Cold War global governance in cooperation with post-Soviet states.
In theory members of the Regional Command were responsible to the party congress, but in practice they controlled the congress, and the leadership often decided results beforehand.
As the government broke into several factions, the issue was how to carry out a transfer of power to a new government.
Methods of electing the parliament can not be considered democratic, because the masses become completely disconnected from the Members of Parliament.
France accused the group of summarily executing 82 soldiers and civilians in capturing Aguelhok, describing the group's tactics as "Al-Qaeda-style".
The Derg was established on 21 June 1974 as the Coordinating Committee of the Armed Forces, Police and Territorial Army, by junior and mid level officers of the Imperial Ethiopian Army and members of the police.
The structure was destroyed by Taliban forces in September 1998, shortly after they captured the Kayan Valley.
A Burma Independence Preparatory Committee, chaired by Ba Maw, was formed on 8 May 1943 with a wide variety of respected members.
Pöttering brought up the classic study on totalitarianism by Hannah Arendt, which developed "the scientific basis criteria to describe totalitarianism," concluding that "both totalitarian systems (Stalinism and Nazism) are comparable and terrible," Pöttering said.
Due to a lack of information and secret annexes in the agreement, that had not been shared even with the then Afghan government, the Taliban were able to spread propaganda and disinformation about the agreement, including convincing local police and military units that the U.S.
It is one of the most important intersections in Mingora, and there are numerous shops and establishments located around this square.
These are elaborate and colorful hand-knotted carpets, which help indicate the distinctions among the various Turkmen clans.
The Kokuhonsha published a monthly newspaper called Kokuhon, and acted as Hiranuma's political support group.
Nazi-Maoism is mostly believed to have faded away after the Lotta di Popolo group dissolved itself in 1973.
However, this was opposed by the British, who, considering the timing to be unfavorable, had considerable reservations about supporting the BNA.
Norway was still under occupation in May 1945, but Vidkun Quisling and most of his ministers surrendered at Møllergata 19 police station on 9 May, one day after Germany's surrender.
Three days after establishing the National Assembly, its inaugural session was held at the pre-war Legislative Building and it elected by majority Benigno S.
See also Territory of the Islamic State of Iraq Territory of the Islamic State Territory of Boko Haram Territory of Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin Islamic Emirate of Somalia == References ==
This is supposed to allow a safe passage after the 31 August deadline for withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan.
Vincent Tong as Fuzz, an insect living in the Land of Monsters, who accompanied Kai and Daidan through the former realm until it was later revealed that he is the son of the Queen of the Monsters and was actually only luring Kai to her so he could be eaten.
On 8 September, Akhundzada issued a statement addressed to the interim government, telling it to uphold Sharia in Afghanistan.
It copies the "fashwave" aesthetic used initially by online supporters of figures like Donald Trump or Ron DeSantis.
Often, they took names such as Communist Party (Marxist–Leninist) or Revolutionary Communist Party to distinguish themselves from the traditional pro-Soviet communist parties.
However, members of the KPRA were never elected, as the Central Committee of the CPK appointed the chairman and other high officials both to it and to the State Praesidium.
Measures included a checklist in order for states to fulfill their obligations to the committee, and for states forwarding names to the list to use a "statement of case" describing the reasoning behind the request.
The Taliban were very reluctant to share power, and since their ranks were overwhelmingly Pashtun they ruled as overlords over the 60% of Afghans from other ethnic groups.
Reginald Slitterbottom, Frak's father and an archaeologist who is a member of the Explorers' Club, being its first Serpentine member.
From the Stalin era to the early Brezhnev era, the Soviet economy grew faster than the United States and maintained itself as the second largest economy in both nominal and purchasing power parity values for much of the Cold War until 1988, when Japan took the second place.
Assad's victory also marked the supersedure of the military over the Ba'ath party structures; making the armed forces a central centre of political power.
Life expectancy in the North was 72 before the famine which was only marginally lower than in the South.
Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg argued that the denial of the crimes of communism is analogous to denying the crimes of Nazism, which in many EU countries is a criminal offence, arguing that "there is a fundamental concern here that totalitarian systems be measured by the same standard.".
The popularity of the conquest meant that newspapers such as the Asahi Shimbun that had initially opposed the war swiftly pivoted to support the war as the best way of improving sales.
Saddam reacted by threatening to invade Kuwait if it continued to increase its oil output (which Kuwait did nevertheless).
France In 1964, a Maoist circle formed at École Normale among students who studied with Louis Althusser.
Corporatist systems were most prevalent during the mid-20th century in Europe and later elsewhere in developing countries.
Goryeo was never conquered by the Mongols, but exhausted after three decades of fighting, the Korean court sent its crown prince to the Yuan capital to swear allegiance to Kublai Khan, who accepted and married one of his daughters to the Korean crown prince.
As a result, he decided not to use the term "Maoism" and instead favoured characterising these ideological contributions as Mao Zedong Thought (Mao Zedong sixiang).
The creation of extremely large industrial complexes, farms, engineering efforts, buildings and statues was to prove the superiority of the socialist system over capitalism.
Yarvin told Vanity Fair: "The fundamental premise of liberalism is that there is this inexorable march toward progress.
By April 1969 the "popular revolutionary" uprising had been crushed, and al-Haji recanted his beliefs publicly.
Sam Jaeger as Mark Tuello (seasons 4–6, recurring season 3, guest season 2), an operative of the U.S.
Under Karmal, the Khalqist's were purged and replaced by the Parcham majority in the Council of Ministers.
Women's associations were eventually brought under the control of the party, as was the press, and in December 1971 Mobutu proceeded to emasculate the power of the churches.
Other Nazi collaborators, as well as Germans accused of war crimes, were also arrested and tried during this legal purge.
On 15 November 1990 after the elections the People's Republic of Bulgaria was officially renamed to the Republic of Bulgaria.
It may also be applied unfairly by those who do not understand Islamic culture and the basis of sharia law, or who fail to distinguish between moderate Islamic and extremist Islamist states, or misapplied to perceived threats which are not true or have yet to be proven.
titled "The Trump Administration and the Media", which mentioned that Trump's verbal attacks included the term "the enemy of the people".
Terijoki Government See also Finnish Socialist Workers' Republic, an earlier, independent socialist state which existed for several months in 1918.
In September 2024, the New York Society Library listed Tell Me What You See as one of the "Best Books of the 21st Century (So Far)," alongside titles by Neil Gaiman, Alice Hoffman, Colm Tóibín, and others.
The Protocols incorporate many of the core conspiracist themes outlined in the Robison and Barruel attacks on the Freemasons and overlay them with antisemitic allegations about anti-Tsarist movements in Russia.
Gigantomania (from Ancient Greek γίγας gigas, "giant" and μανία mania, "madness") is the production of unusually and superfluously large works.
Eventually, Japanese became the official language in addition to the Chinese taught in Manchukuo schools.
Critics said that the Afghan withdrawal would undermine the fragile security situation in the region and that the troop reductions would hamper the ongoing peace talks between Taliban fighters and the government of Afghanistan.
The operation aimed at indiscriminately eliminating residual threat of terrorism and consolidating gains of operations made so far.
In 1997, the country's name was restored to the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Mobutu died less than four months later while in exile in Morocco.
These organizations were a mix of Thiriart's theses with a Maoism adapted to the European scene but there was a fundamental difference because while for Thiriart Maoism was a secondary element, for Nazi-Maoist organizations it was a fundamental element.
Though human rights violations were committed by all sides, the great majority of abuses against civilians as well as actions leading to devastating famine were committed by the government.
Nazi Germany German dictator Adolf Hitler was extremely interested in architecture, and desired works of monumental scale to be built to represent the values and achievements of the Nazi regime, and to impress foreigners and later generations.
Tsolakoglou, Rallis and Logothetopoulos (in Germany, where he had escaped to) were all arrested, along with hundreds of other collaborationists.
Far more than the Chinese communists, the Khmer Rouge pursued the ideal of economic self-sufficiency, specifically the version that Khieu Samphan had outlined in his 1959 doctoral dissertation.
The Velebit Publishing House (Nakladna knjižara "Velebit"), named for the Velebit uprising, published pro-Axis works, including Japanac o Japanu [A Japanese on Japan] by the Japanese chargé d'affaires, Kazuichi Miura.
There is additional speculation that the destruction may have been influenced by al-Qaeda in order to further isolate the Taliban from the international community, thus tightening relations between the two; however, the evidence is circumstantial.
The Romanian Hearth Union (UVR), which had around 4 million supporters in 1992, has been described as neofascist.
The term was used in a Boston Globe editorial published on November 6, 1999, warning of the emerging threat of the Taliban regime almost two years before the attacks of September 11, 2001.
This appears to me to be a true new frontier; to a certain extent the religious experience can now be scientifically studied...
According to accounts of refugees who were recruited to mass gymnastics, the collectivist principle is nurtured by physical punishment such as beatings and more importantly the organization of recruits into small units, whose performances were held accountable by larger units.
Aside from the Office of the Minister President, the local Czech government in the Protectorate consisted of the Ministries of Education, Finance, Justice, Trade, the Interior, Agriculture, and Public Labour.
In 1954, Hoxha condemned the American and British liberation of Albania calling them "enemies of the people".
This authority was used to suppress and spy on the activities of civil rights workers, along with others suspected of sentiments contrary to white supremacy.
The Council urged all states to implement Resolution 1373 and reaffirmed the need to combat terrorism.
The Taliban movement first emerged on the military scene in August 1994, with the stated goal of liberating Afghanistan from its present corrupt leadership of warlords and establishing a pure Islamic society.
The National Foundation Society (国本社, Kokuhonsha) was a nationalist political society in late 1920s and early 1930s Japan.
On 2 March 1962, less than two years after returning to civilian rule, Ne Win launched a second military-backed coup d'état, this time without U Nu's blessing.
Albania, Ljubljana, coastal Dalmatia (for the presence of Dalmatian Italians), and Montenegro had been directly annexed by the Italian state.
Colossal architecture was to render the individual impotent by its sheer scale, and then mold him according to the values of National Socialism.
However, due to censorship, some films were not screened in cinemas until 1989, when communism ended in Central and Eastern Europe.
The United States agreed to an initial reduction of its force level from 13,000 to 8,600 by July 2020, followed by a full withdrawal within 14 months if the Taliban kept its commitments.
In Libya The Government of National Unity would instate a Taliban-like morality police to crack-down on "weird haircuts" and western practices.
Taliban spokesmen denied any relationship with the Front, and claimed that the group was a creation of the National Directorate of Security.
This includes diverting aid supplies, imposing heavy taxes on aid shipments, and restricting the movements of humanitarian workers.
Nazi-Maoism was a political movement and an ideology that emerged in Italy around 1968, with the formation of a group known as Struggle of the People (Lotta di Popolo).
After Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union, preparations were made for establishing Norwegian colonies in Northern Russia.
Alexander Zaitchik from the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote a report titled "'Patriot' Paranoia: A Look at the Top Ten Conspiracy Theories", in which he personally condemns such conspiracies as an effort of the radical right to undermine society.
Arolda Elbasani, in her review of Democracy Incorporated, finds Wolin's description of the US having some tendencies towards inverted totalitarianism as compelling but "rather exaggerated" and using some historical choices she calls "bewildering".
The Burmese Way to Socialism (Burmese: မြန်မာ့နည်းမြန်မာ့ဟန် ဆိုရှယ်လစ်စနစ်), also known as the Burmese Road to Socialism, was the state ideology of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma, the socialist state governed by the Burma Socialist Programme Party (BSPP) from 1962 to 1988.
Party squabbles are occasionally on public display, and there is a frantic and continuous politics among factions of the party, interest groups, competing corporate powers, and rival media concerns.
Yumjaagiin Tsedenbal, MPRP general secretary and second to Choibalsan, rose to prominence, inspecting aid deliveries and touring the Eastern Front as a Mongolian People's Army (MPA) lieutenant general.
Keys of This Blood: Pope John Paul II Versus Russia and the West for Control of the New World Order.
All OIC states—including Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, three countries that officially recognised the Taliban government—joined the protest to spare the monuments.
Italy readied to fight against the British Empire in Africa and the Middle East, known as the "parallel war", while expecting a similar collapse of British forces in the European theatre.
Secret police organizations are characteristic of police states governed by authoritarian and totalitarian regimes.
After the end of World War I, Ahimier enrolled the University of Kiev in the Russian Empire, then traveled to Liege and Vienna to complete his academic studies.
White House report and subsequent congressional actions On April 6, 2023, the Biden White House put out its report on the August 2021 withdrawal of U.S.
Tsolakoglou's main qualification for the position was that he surrendered to the Wehrmacht the week before, on April 20, against the express orders of his commanding officer Alexandros Papagos.
Some teachers and students were Gestapo informers, which spread a climate of mistrust and paranoia across the school system as both teachers and students never knew whom to trust.
In 1990/91 an adult literacy rate of just over 60 percent was still being reported in government as well as in some international reports.
At the same time, it decided that the provision not to freeze accounts on humanitarian grounds no longer applied.
It is loosely based on the JSOC task forces such as Task Force 121, Task Force 145, Task Force 20, Task Force 6-26, and Task Force 88.
Mussolini asserted there was a "natural law" for stronger peoples to subject and dominate "inferior" peoples such as the "barbaric" Slavic peoples of Yugoslavia.
Despite this, upon declaring independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, the Republic of Croatia rehabilitated the Croatian Home Guard, whose veterans have since received state pensions.
One scholar noted how Marcos retained "all martial law decrees, orders, and law-making powers", including powers that allowed him to jail political opponents.
See also Bakhtar News Agency Mass media in Afghanistan Imams Online Islam Online References External links "Official website".
Jamaat-ul-Ahrar (Arabic: جماعة الأحرار, romanized: Jamā‘at ul-Āḥrār, "Assembly of the Free," abbreviated as JuA) is a militant group that split from Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan in August 2014.
21 November 2014, Jamaat-ul-Ahrar claimed responsibility for a grenade attack on the membership camp of Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) in Orangi Town area of Karachi.
Constructed in the mid-1990s and inaugurated on December 10, 1996, the eagle-shaped structure served as both a cultural landmark and meeting space for the local Ismaili community.
Joseph Stalin was well aware of the domestic political situation in Finland based on Soviet intelligence information, and thus did not anticipate that the establishment of the Democratic Republic would cause any revolutionary action or popular uprisings against the existing Finnish Government.
Pakistan's military said it had foiled an attempted suicide attack on a paramilitary training centre in Shabqadar, in the northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, two suicide bombers and a soldier were killed in the attempted attack, while another soldier was wounded.
Withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact In October 1964, Hoxha hailed Khrushchev's fall from power, and the Soviet Union's new leaders made overtures to Tirana.
Voice of Jihad (Arabic: صوت الجهاد, romanized: Ṣawt al-Jihād) was the title of a website, which claims to be one of the official websites of the Taliban.
There was also an environmental toll to the country, heavy deforestation from the illegal trade in timber with hundreds of acres of pine and cedar forests in Kunar Province and Paktya being cleared.
freeones of India) was a militant Islamist group in Pakistan that split from the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) in February 2014.
The name “kokuhon” was selected as an antithesis to the word “minpon”, from minpon shugi, the commonly used translation for the word “democracy”, and the society was openly supportive of totalitarian ideology.
In 1983 Hoxha relinquished many of his duties due to poor health, and Alia assumed responsibility for Albania's administration.
When a street vendor gives Tung an illegal anti-hallucinogen, he discovers that the Party leader has a horrible secret.
Sayed Rahmatullah Hashemi, a senior representative of the Taliban designated as the roving Ambassador, visited the US in March, 2001.
Quisling himself viewed the creation of his government as a "decisive step on the road towards the complete independence of Norway".
Territory The control of Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad was limited to Fallujah and Tal Afar but also for a very short time over Samarra.
Barre blamed the coup attempt on the Eastern Bloc, namely the Soviet Union and Cuba, countries that supported Ethiopia in the Ogaden War, he labeled them "new imperialists".
Origin Polybius appears to have coined the term ochlocracy in his 2nd century BC work Histories (6.4.6).
Increased negotiations Humanitarian organizations often engage in increased negotiations with all parties to a conflict, including government forces, rebel groups, and entities like Hamas.
In effect, North Korea's familial nationalism has supplanted the "rather abstract, class-oriented language of socialism with a more easily understandable and identifiable language of familial connections, love and obligations".
On 18 May 2024, the Afghanistan Freedom Front (AFF) insurgency group released a statement claiming that they carried out an assassination attempt against Azhundzada near the Shah-Do Shamshira Mosque in Kabul while he was visiting the city.
Yvonne Strahovski as Serena Joy Waterford, Fred's wife, and a former conservative cultural activist and author.
However, on the same day, Ghani also signed a decree for the release of 1,500 Taliban prisoners on March 14, but only if they agreed to sign pledges guaranteeing they will not return to battle.
In May 1978, a law was passed, whereby renting residential premises was prohibited, and tenants became owners of their rental apartments and houses.
Defenders among the American establishment saw the Taliban as Saudi Arabia-esque conservative Islamists who could act as a counterweight to revolutionary Iran.
David Dacko remained president until he was overthrown on 1 September 1981, by General André Kolingba.
Voice of Jihad was also the title of an online journal published by the Saudi branch of al-Qaeda between 2004 and 2007.
In the 1990s, Land was closely affiliated with the Cybernetic Culture Research Unit (CCRU), a "theory-fiction" collective co-founded by Land and cyberfeminist philosopher Sadie Plant at the University of Warwick.
In practice, the Arab Socialist Union then merged with the apparatus of the General People's Congress.
In addition, Italian leader Benito Mussolini's grandiose schemes to build a new Roman Empire in the Mediterranean directly clashed with Greek pretensions to control the Aegean Sea and the Dodecanese islands (then under Italian control) and to exert stronger influence in Albania.
The militants fatality reports are the official reports and battle logs gathered and published by the Ministry of Defence on the accounts of the rate of human casualties suffered by the Taliban in the frontier war since 2005.
Despre reconsiderarea critică a trecutului, Ion Gavrilă Ogoranu și rezistența armată anticomunistă din România [Between myth and trivialization.
Gaddafi and his companions intended to achieve this through "social justice, high levels of production, the elimination of all forms of exploitation and the equitable distribution of national wealth".
This contrasts with the liberal conception of constitutionalism that "law, rather than men, is supreme." Unlike the relatively constant (and, in some instances, permanently fixed) nature of democratic constitutions, a Marxist–Leninist constitution is ever-changing.
Another suit was filed by Koutoulas and the Let'sGoBrandon.com Foundation against NASCAR in September 2025, seeking $76 million in damages for the sponsorship being rejected.
In October 2021 then-Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan expressed his view that "...if TTP surrender and accept Pakistan's law, then they will be free from charges." However, TTP denied the state of prime minister.
The judicial branch of the Sudanese government consists of a Constitutional Court of nine justices, the National Supreme Court, the Court of Cassation, and other national courts; the National Judicial Service Commission provides overall management for the judiciary.
A separate Wall Street Journal report said that the NSA has "strongly dissented" from the CIA and Defense Intelligence Agency assessments that the bounty plot is credible and real.
The Alliance for the Union of Romanians has also been associated with this current, although its leaders have denied any such connection, and so has been the United Romania Party by Vice.
Food shortages Prioritizing the shortages of food, he organized an agency to distribute rice, even though most of the rice was confiscated by Japanese soldiers.
Background Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad was founded in Jordan in 1999, between 1999 and 2004 the organization did various terrorist attacks in both Jordan and Iraq, however besides that the organization didn't controlled any territory until circa.
Wells-Barnett EtymologyOnLine External links Quotations related to Mob rule at Wikiquote The dictionary definition of mob rule at Wiktionary
Kim Il Sung believed that excessive foreign aid threatened a country's ability to develop socialism, which only a state with a strong, independent economy could build.
He attributed the popularity of the phrase to frustration with Biden's "disastrous policies", including his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and the southern border.
After the rise of anti-Jewish violence in the British Mandate of Palestine one year prior, support for the Brit HaBirionim faction of the ZRM soared, Brit HaBirionim quickly became the largest faction within the ZRM in 1930.
The Taliban had heralded their ascendency in the area by killing the famous Pakistani dancer Shabana in the square.
As soon as he announced his willingness, on March 18, to resign in order to make way for a neutral interim government, Najibullah immediately lost control.
In the first half of 1976, about 400 people were sent there; in the second half of the year that number was nearer to 1,000.
Dennis Ray Morgan adds that in addition to the concentration of raw military power, technology is helping to lead the world towards the type of inverted totalitarianism seen in 1984 and Brave New World.
See also Jamaat-ul-Ahrar Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan Fazlullah Operation Zarb-e-Azb References External links "Taliban's former spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan surrenders: Pakistan Army".
Circulation of the tögrög was strictly controlled by the MPR government with Soviet backing, and its foreign exchange rate was artificially fixed.
In Ohio, the Ohio Revised Code section 1545 provides for general park districts, often known as "metro parks", in addition to "township park districts" allowed under ORC section 511.18.
However they urge the government to ensure the national park is set up in a way that allows it to emphasise tackling climate change, promoting species recovery, maintaining community resilience, modern governance, and that its boundaries consider the biodiversity of the area's species and habitats.
Geometry and interrelations First and foremost, the use of classical order structures, such as perspective, proportion, symmetry, circles, quadrilaterals, and triangles, was a reflection of the strong connection and admiration for the aesthetics of antiquity during the Renaissance.
Boom and decline At the beginning of the 20th century, the clock industry initially prospered but then collapsed as the First World War broke out and, subsequently, the Russian and American markets broke away.
The first (in 2004) to identify periurban parks and list their functions (environmental, social, economic).
Kirschwasser is colourless because it is either not aged in wood or was aged in barrels made of ash.
A free 27-minute SOPLAY/SOPARC Introduction, Practice, and Assessment Training DVD is available from Active Living Research.
The new methods meant many workers became redundant and brought higher competition from the newly industrialized countries.
along national parkways such as the Blue Ridge Parkway, which has numerous individually named overlooks for viewing the Blue Ridge Mountains and their valleys.
Development Background The plan was first announced in August 2016 at a presentation to the news media in the CityPlace neighbourhood, south of the Railway Lands near Bathurst Street.
In 1850, the Duchy of Baden founded the first school for clockmakers in Furtwangen in order to improve the standard of production and make it more efficient.
350 new species and sakheskhvaobis saplings were added to the garden nursery, which will soon be moved to permanent areas in the park.
Transportation The park is accessible within walking distance south from Weiwuying Station of Kaohsiung Metro.
Finn and Jake live in the post-apocalyptic Land of Ooo, where they interact with the other main characters of the show: Princess Bubblegum, The Ice King, Marceline the Vampire Queen, Lumpy Space Princess, and BMO.
To estimate how much physical activity a park generates, it is possible to aggregate the total METs across park users.
The basic requirements advocated for the mental and physical well being of children were good food, air, sunshine and exercise.
The belief—sometimes called "keyhole tenure", and which persisted as recently as the early 20th century—was actually a fallacy, but to stop landless peasants unlawfully squatting on commons, the Erection of Cottages Act 1588 (31 Eliz.
The island has hosted many business retreats and events such as the Norwegian Chess Tournament in 2015.
This was either done to wield power, or protect the sanctity of the knowledge from getting diluted or misused.
The result is a beautiful shared space for these residents, who enjoy a heightened sense of security and increased property values.
By the early 1900s, the front yard had become an accepted, "buffer between the private home and the public street".
Park systems are included, but not ranked because park systems are networks that contain multiple parks.
The two meanings of the term, as the ornamental parts of a garden, and as a commercial place of entertainment, coexisted in English from at least the 17th century.
People in the German-speaking region where it originated usually serve it after dinner, as a digestif.
Desire paths typically emerge as convenient shortcuts where more deliberately constructed paths take a longer or more circuitous route, have gaps, or are non-existent.
Industrial production The heart core of Black forest clock production was an area that extended from Triberg via Furtwangen to St.
The island is currently run by Aasmund's son, Olav Bryn, who plants and redesigns the garden every year.
There is also an extensive trail system running around the lake that is able to be hiked year-round.
Features Key features in the gardens include: Fountains: The Fountain of Venus and the Bee (1933, attributed to Prof.
Comprehensive greenway systems or networks, usually based on natural landforms such as valleys or ridges but sometimes simply an opportunistic assemblage of greenways and open spaces of various kinds to create an alternative municipal or regional green infrastructure.
Similar to dressage, teams of four riders were qualified at either the World Equestrian Games (WEG) or through a regional competition.
In 1927, the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission was formed to plan and acquire parklands along stream valley corridors in the then-rural northern and eastern suburbs of Washington, D.C.
The frescoed walls of the rooms of the house belong to this phase, with red and yellow panels and small figures in an architectural framework.
The gardens take their name from the Bajulo, a magistrate who represented the sovereign authority following the Norman conquest of southern Italy.
Great Britain was the most successful nation, topping the medal table with three golds and five medals in total.
Planning approval and proposed route In January 2023, the project was given planning approval for the first section between Camden Gardens and Royal College Street.
Legal status and ownership "A Vision for Little Marlow Lakes Country Park" in 2002 set out local authority supplementary planning guidance which states that "Land ownership of the Gravel Pits is predominantly private and fragmented" and "has a complex distribution of land ownership.
These game preserves evolved into landscaped parks set around mansions and country houses from the sixteenth century onwards.
References Sources This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
The subsequent expansion of the city outside the walls of the castrum followed these routes, giving a disorderly appearance to the urban plan.
Types of neighborhood parks include mini-parks, or pocket parks, and may be further described by their predominant recreational offering.
Viewing points may also be found on hill or mountain tops or on rocky spurs overlooking a valley and reached via a hiking trail.
Tree cover is dominated by species such as holm oak (Quercus ilex) and pines, with undergrowth including ivy (Hedera helix), while hedges are formed by box (Buxus sempervirens), laurel (Laurus nobilis), and myrtle (Myrtus communis).
Part of the foundation for this project consisted of reclaiming 22 miles (35 km) of unused rail trails.
A typical kirsch chocolate consists of no more than one milliliter of kirsch, surrounded by milk or (more usually) dark chocolate with a film of hard sugar between the two parts, which acts as an impermeable casing for the liquid content and compensates for the lack of sweetness typical of kirsch.
A marine park is a designated park consisting of an area of sea (or lake) set aside to achieve ecological sustainability, promote marine awareness and understanding, enable marine recreational activities, and provide benefits for Indigenous peoples and coastal communities.
Hammen sponsored House Bill 1533 to amend the Baltimore City Charter, allowing the city to close alleyways and lease them to interested parties.
These are found in the early architecture of most cultures, from Eurasia to Pre-Columbian architecture.
The registration authorities are the county councils, and when there is no ownership, a local council, such as a parish council is normally given guardianship by vesting the property under section 8 the act.
Access to cheaper apartments on the upper floors was almost always via separate stairs entered from the outside.
A mandala vatika (Sanskrit: मण्डलवाटिका, romanized: maṇḍalavāṭikā) is a garden with architecture that is designed per Vedic geometry.
A park system, also known as an open space system, is a network of parks and other green spaces that are connected by public walkways, bridleways or cycleways.
After touring the gardens, guests eat at the restaurant on the island with a rotating buffet prepared by their chef, Andre Mulder.
''Upper Circum-Bug Lands'') is a planned national park in Ukraine, located in Khmelnytskyi Oblast, in the western part of the country.
A recreation center is a facility that supports myriad park activities, including sports and other recreational activities appropriate to the population or community that uses the park.
The cities of Urbandale, Clive, and West Des Moines all are mostly in Polk County, but have parks located in other counties which are not counted towards parks in Polk County.
IUCNcategory PRO (proposed) In 1998 Karimpuzha was listed by the first World Heritage Forest meeting in Berastagi, Indonesia, as being of potential interest as a World Heritage Forest.
After the handover of Taiwan from Japan to the Republic of China in 1945, the Kuomintang government continued the military purpose of the camp until 1979, when the camp was deemed no longer suitable for military purposes.
The Vauxhall arranged masquerades, fire works, and performances by actors, athletes, circus artists and all sorts of artists passing through town.
They include: Memoirs of the Court of England during the Reign of the Stuarts (1840) Memoirs of the Court of England from the Revolution of 1688 to the Death of George II (1843) George Selwyn and his Contemporaries (1843, new ed.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
Many of these early playgrounds were designed by important landscape architect, Frederick Law Olmsted who was earlier involved with the highly influential design of Central Park, New York.
These are used during worship and meditation, and sanctified with specific rituals and offerings to bring in blessings and auspiciousness.
State statutes often have a general law to provide for park districts' creation, dissolution, geographic borders, and annexation; the selection of governing boards, often referred to as park boards; and the criteria for levying property taxes on behalf of the district.
Community Greens, sometimes referred to as backyard commons, urban commons, or pocket neighborhoods, are shared open green spaces on the inside of city blocks, created either when residents merge backyard space or reclaim underutilized urban land such as vacant lots and alleyways.
In 321 BC the Partition of Triparadisus was signed at Triparidisus in Syria, a vast pleasure grounds complex in Syria.
They have also shaped the outdoor educational profession in other ways: in 1983, at a meeting of the Association of Experiential Education, women educators met around a picnic table at midnight to discuss the problems facing women in the field of outdoor education.
The Forge: Lemont Quarries Adventure Park is an adventure park that opened July 17, 2020 in Lemont, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago.
Control of the garden changed hands a few times, before it fell in Zugdidi City Council, who turned it into a culture and leisure park hosting a varieties of events, entertainment, and attractions, but the care and development of the plant collection was neglected.
Entrants included Adjaye Associates, AL_A, AHMM, Asif Khan, Coffey Architects, Cullinan Studio, CZWG, David Kohn, Grant Associates, Hawkins\Brown, Jamie Fobert Architects, LDA, Lifschutz Davidson Sandilands, Migrants Bureau, Weston Williamson, and Zaha Hadid Architects.
The Société des établissements de plein air du Québec (French pronunciation: [sɔsjete dez‿etablismɑ̃ də plɛn‿ɛʁ dy kebɛk], Quebec Outdoor Establishments Company), also known as Sépaq, is the agency of the Government of Quebec that manages parks and wildlife reserves.
Greenprinting often involves use of state-of-the-art maps and models created with Geographic Information System (GIS) software that combines layers of spatial and demographic information to guide growth management efforts.
Flower gardens combine plants of different heights, colors, textures, and fragrances to create interest and delight the senses.
Fort Nelson Park stands in the vicinity today, a pocket park housing a granite monument commemorating the fort.
In the second half of the 18th century, technical progress led to winding wheels being produced in yellow brass.
Development and design Pocket parks typically develop on small, solitary, irregularly shaped, and physically damaged lots.
Such sites are often used for experimental archaeology, and as shooting locations for documentaries and historical-fiction films and television.
High-quality kirschwasser should be served around 16 °C (61 °F), warmed by the hands as with brandy.
In digital environments where natural wear does not exist, designers use "artificial" desire lines to study behavior, such as: Website heat maps to track cursor movement and clicks.
In response to continuing attacks from Native Americans and the threat of British attacks during the Revolutionary War, Fort Nelson was constructed between what is currently Main Street and the river, with its main gate near Seventh Street.
Recreation Sports facilities and activities in the area include an athletics track, angling for members of the Marlow Angling Club, open water swimming, paddleboarding and water skiing.
It is a popular destination for all those who wish to have an outdoor picnic, enjoy some outdoor activities and games or even just to have a relaxing day out with friends and family.
Corbelling supporting upper stories and particularly supporting projecting corner turrets subsequently became a characteristic of the Scottish baronial style.
History The Balio Gardens were created in 1872 by Count Agostino Sieri Pepoli who leased the Balio Towers and grazing land from the city in exchange for restoring the towers and developing a public garden.
Its purpose is to honor all veterans from Cayuga County that have served in the United States military from the Revolutionary war through current deployments.
Robert was sentenced to seven years in prison, and claimed his brother knew nothing of the cannabis operation.
It was composed of an earth terrace, or tai, which served as an observation platform in the center of a large square park.
After a 2007 Complete Streets redesign in parts of New York City, there was a nearly 50% increase in retail sales on 9th Avenue in Manhattan and a nearly 50% decrease in commercial vacancies in Union Square.
In the Middle Ages, the garden also played a very important role, but in another sense: it was walled, protected from the outside.
produced one of the earliest products of mass-produced cast-iron seating in America, an example of which is held by the Smithsonian Institution as inv.
Mandla Plant Fossils National Park Indroda Dinosaur and Fossil Park, Gandhinagar, Gujarat National Fossil Wood Park, Tiruvakkarai National Fossil Wood Park, Sathanur Akal Wood Fossil Park, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Amkhoi Fossil Park, West Bengal.
Mount Phillips is a mountain located on the border of Jasper National Park (Alberta) and Mount Robson Provincial Park (British Columbia).
Between directly after the signage was posted and several months after, the usage increased four times.
On 1 July 1870, the name reverted to Camden Town, only to be resited in December of that year further west.
On June 26, 2009 King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX) named the park "Nagaraphirom", meaning "delightful park for the townspeople".
Often, schools have a taller, more advanced playground for older schoolchildren and a lower playground with a lower risk of falling for younger children.
Dressage Teams are made up of three riders, all of whom are also competing concurrently for individual medals.
Therefore, those competing for individual berths completed one dressage test and cross-country round, and two jumping rounds.
The European Union sets a minimum of 37.5% ABV (75 proof) for products of this kind; kirschwasser typically has an alcohol content of 40%–50% ABV (80–100 proof).
Beautiful settings such as the Golden Age, the gardens of the Hesperides, the Nymphs and the Muses, or the Elysian fields of Homer and Virgil were depicted in the literary works studied for designing these spaces.
Other common species include double-crested cormorant, great black-backed gull, herring gull, little penguin, black guillemot, Leach's storm petrel, black guillemot and black-legged kittiwake.
Additionally, community outreach that is promoted and achieved through educational opportunities of Complete Streets principles helps establish community social connectivity and encourages participation in active transportation modes.
This attack caused such panic in Rome that Pompey the Great arranged for the tribune Aulus Gabinius to pass a law, the lex Gabinia, to allow Pompey to raise an army and destroy the pirates.
Black Forest clockmakers The German Clock Museum (German: Deutsches Uhrenmuseum) also has in its collection some early Black Forest clocks with wooden cogwheels as well as a number of industrially produced Black Forest clocks.
In May 2018, the NDP government announced that Alberta was going to "create the largest protected area of boreal forest in the world by setting aside four new provincial parks and expanding another along its northeastern borders".
Structure Structurally, they consist of dry-stone lava stone enclosures, almost always circular in shape.
Outlooks: Viewpoints over Trapani, the Aegadian Islands, the Stagnone Lagoon, Monte Cofano, and the surrounding landscape.
Littke observed that "The High Line is undoubtedly loved, and it is a successful place in many ways", and that its success proves that "elevated parks can bring 'new' nature into cities without occupying ground-floor space".
The Donnafugata Garden On 12 September 2008, the Fondo Ambiente Italiano (Italian Environment Fund) received a donation of a Pantellerian garden from the Sicilian winery Donnafugata.
And there's a lot of that in the show, I think." Executive producer Fred Seibert compared the show's animation style to that of Felix the Cat and various Max Fleischer cartoons, but said that its world is also equally inspired by Dungeons & Dragons and video games.
Shilparatna, a text from the sixteenth century, states that flower gardens or public parks should be located in the northern portion of a town.
Fishing and recreation In addition to water supply purposes, Cedar Lake is managed for bass (largemouth and striped) and crappie fishing.
Events Medals were awarded in the following competitions: Individual dressage Team dressage Individual jumping Team jumping Individual eventing Team eventing Qualification Each event has its own qualification rules, but generally rely on FEI rankings.
A proposed boundary map was released in mid-2024, with another public consultation taking place in late 2024, and another final one in late 2025.
The Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR), also known as Board of Parks and Recreation or Park Board, is used by many government bodies to describe the parts of their organizations that oversee public parks and recreational public works.
Many of them serve as principal arterials and some (like Storrow Drive, Memorial Drive, the Alewife Brook Parkway and the VFW Parkway) have evolved into regional commuter routes.
Land tenure of a single ecological area can be complex, with multiple public and private entities owning adjacent properties.
For the next few decades, the park grew in its statuary and amenities and, by 1851, the park became completely illuminated.
In Richmond Park's Pembroke Lodge gardens, there is a memorial to the poet James Thomson, who died at Richmond in 1748.
His poem on Mary, Queen of Scots was published about 1831, and was followed by a collection of poems entitled Tales of the Dead.
The former quarry is of particular aesthetic interest as a bold, natural form visibly contrasting with its immediate surrounds and visually linked to the large outcrops on St Paul's Terrace.
According to a January 7, 2019 article in The Globe and Mail, some residents of Rocky Mountain House, a town of 7,000, led by United Conservative Party (UCP) Member of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta (MLA) for Rimbey-Rocky Mountain House-Sundre, Jason Nixon, oppose the creation of the park.
The site previously hosted the Pulzor neighborhood, whose residents were primarily engaged in floriculture, producing rosewater and various herbal infusions from flowers and plant roots.
Réserves fauniques (Wildlife reserves) - manages 15 wildlife reserves in forested and wilderness areas.
Plants of the Garden Introduced Plants Wetlands Plants Arid Plants References External links Media related to Zugdidi botanical garden at Wikimedia Commons
Since 2020, the Lorain Public Library System operates a converted shipping container as a "Little Library on the Lake" which lends beach and sports equipment to library card holders.
Origin and production Because morellos were originally grown in the Black Forest regions of Germany, kirschwasser is believed to have originated there.
On 11 February 2025, Buckinghamshire Council adopted its Buckinghamshire Local Cycling and Walking Infrastructure Plan, and approved prioritisation of the Haddenham-Thame Greenway.
In the 1820s, the park was destroyed and divided into residential areas, and in 1906, the Vauxhall building was torn down.
Western gardens are almost universally based on plants, with garden, which etymologically implies enclosure, often signifying a shortened form of botanical garden.
All DVD releases can be purchased on the Cartoon Network Shop, and the individual episodes can be downloaded from both the iTunes Store and Amazon.com.
The MRC recommended that the city of Sept-Îles should not accept any new commercial projects on the islands.
These small urban spaces served as low-cost interventions to improve the quantity and quality of community gathering spaces and recreational facilities in dense urban areas.
History Alberta's system of provincial parks began with the striking of a committee on parks by then Premier J.
A special authority can be set up, under the joint jurisdiction of two or more government bodies or as an independent park district to administer parks.
In 1835, the most noteworthy reformulation of the park was initiated by Malaquias Ferreira Leal, architect for the Municipality of Lisbon.
Features The entire park is spread over 200 acres (0.81 km2) of land located in the neighbourhood of Sakchi.
It is one of the five largest urban parks of India along with Cubbon Park (Bangalore), Shivaji Park (Mumbai), Chandrashekhar Azad Park or Alfred Park (Allahabad) and Maidan (Kolkata).
One such entrance, at Royal College Street, will be through the former building of the first Camden Road station which is now a Grade II listed building.
See also Park rangers List of protective service agencies List of law enforcement agencies in the United Kingdom, Crown Dependencies and British Overseas Territories#Parks police Category:Park police departments of the United States == References ==
In instances where a parklet is not intended to accommodate people, it may provide greenery, art, or some other visual amenity.
It began as part of the Iloilo River Rehabilitation Project in Iloilo City, later evolving into a popular venue for jogging and leisure, and is now lined with mangroves and other forms of riverine biodiversity.
On 11 December 2019, a Supreme Court decision put the future of some village greens at risk in England and Wales.
Analysis A Report produced by the Nous Group found that the establishment of the Great Forest National Park with three different investment scenarios could generate as much as 379,000 additional visitors to the region.
Russia In Russia, central square (Russian: центра́льная пло́щадь, romanised: tsentráĺnaya plóshchad́) is a common term for an open area in the heart of the town.
As the university expanded the botanical garden was replaced by Universitetsplatsen in the 1880s and the new university building, located just north of Kungshuset.
Civic group which advocated environmental protection and arts began to lobby for an ecological metropolitan park.
Males of the Steller's Jay in particular seek out territory near picnic tables because of the superior feeding opportunities.
Applications Monitoring of park environment and park uses Considering its multiple benefits to society and nature, an urban park is a crucial place for promoting physical activity.
Numerous cities worldwide have looked into or started construction of elevated parks, including London, Washington, DC, Jersey City, Chicago, Philadelphia, San Francisco, São Paulo, and Rotterdam.
Operating in secret for 2 years, the operation was undertaken by Robert DeRosa, brother of landowner Vince DeRosa, claiming to run two companies called Ontario Pallet and Barrie Fish.
The popularity of clocks from Black Forest grew, and plates and clock faces became more sophisticated.
The Saint Lawrence Global Observatory (OGSL) and the Institute of Ocean Sciences (ISMER) of the Université du Québec à Rimouski participated.
It has been proposed since 2002 to be established in the Tenasserim Hills over an area of 680 mi2 (1,800 km2) and extended by 540 mi2 (1,400 km2) in 2004.
Then in the modern times, the beloved gardens of Gertrude Jekyll (Munstead Wood), Vita Sackville-West (Sissinghurst Castle Garden) and Major Lawrence Johnston (Hidcote Manor Garden).
25) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to open spaces in England and Wales and Ireland.
Inclusive playgrounds Universally designed playgrounds are created to be accessible to all children.
The Parkway West (I-376) runs through the Fort Pitt Tunnel and links Downtown to Pittsburgh International Airport, southbound I-79, Imperial, Pennsylvania, and westbound US 22/US 30.
It was originally scheduled to open on May 25, with a grand opening scheduled for June 27, 2020, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic this was pushed back to July 2020.
I look forward to seeing it develop." The project started fundraising the construction costs in August 2019.
Responses were received from across the UK, with the highest numbers from Denbighshire, Gwynedd, Flintshire, and Powys.
The word mandala literally means a circular, symmetrical pattern that is used in Hindu and Buddhist symbolism.
In the vicinity of Jubilee other parks —Tata Steel Zoological Park and Nicco Water Jubilee Park are located.
In 1997 United Nations Environment Programme's World Conservation Monitoring Centre listed Karimpuza as a Protected area that overlaps with the South Western Ghats montane rain forests Ecoregion.
Given that this valley is inhabited by forest-dependent tribes, sanctuary rather than national park status is more appropriate in the short-term.
(Kentucky was part of Virginia at the time.) The fort was used as a courthouse and jail until one was built.
References in the act to charity law have been updated on several occasions, including by the Charities Act 1960, the Charities Act 1993, the Charities Act 2006, and the Charities Act 2011.
Greenprinting is the creation of conservation scenarios that help communities make informed conservation decisions.
In some cases this will also feature sweeping lawns and scattered trees; the basic difference between a country house's park and its garden is that the park is grazed by animals, but they are excluded from the garden.
The City of Barrie had opposed NAA's rezoning application on the basis that it would use a large portion of the city's scarce industrial lands, yet only contribute low-wage retail jobs to the local economy.
Restoration The gardens were restored and enhanced between 2019 and 2024, following the allocation of €1.6 million in funding secured by the municipality of Erice.
The WEG awarded five berths, the regions six (America: two, Europe: two, Asia: two), and the hosts (Great Britain).
Proposal The project was envisioned by a geographer, Oliver O'Brien, in 2015 and promoted by Camden Town Unlimited.
In the 1870s, lawn ornaments became a popular front yard feature, with wrought iron sculpture, bird baths and gazebos being particularly popular.
Through this community organization, the development of pocket parks promotes grassroots planning and strengthens relationships between residents and local authorities.
Text of the Open Spaces Act 1906 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
A park district is a form of local special-purpose district for providing public parks and recreation in or near its geographic boundaries.
Only one portion of this subdivision was sold, that on the corner of Water and Love Streets to a Mrs Kate Downey.
John Heneage Jesse (1809 – 7 July 1874), English historian, son of Edward Jesse, was educated at Eton and became a clerk in the secretary's department of the Admiralty.
Following this, in 2009, Buckinghamshire County Council referred to local “overwhelming support for a route between the two settlements.” Thame’s dependence on Parkway station has meant that a path to Haddenham has been a regular aspiration of Thame Town Council's annual Neighbourhood Plans.
All riders compete in the Grand Prix, which serves as the first round of both the individual and team medals.
It runs concurrently with the individual competition (riders running over the same course) so team riders are also competing for individual medals.
Present Today, the island is visited by over 30,000 guests each year and functions as a popular tourist site, complete with a garden tour and lunch/dinner in the on-island restaurant.
Like the Playground Association, the Crèche and Kindergarten Association were successful in achieving local and Queensland Government sponsorship and funding as well as funding from various national philanthropic trust funds.
This system of linear parks was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted to connect the Boston Common and Public Garden (1837) to Franklin Park (Boston), also known as the "crown jewel" of Olmstead's work in Boston.
While the original and most common material for picnic tables is wooden boards, they may be made of anything from split logs to concrete to recycled HDPE plastic.
The appearance of safety encourages unreasonable risk-taking in children, who might take more reasonable risks if they correctly understood that it is possible to break a bone on the soft surfaces under most modern equipment.
Norman Collie after Donald "Curly" Phillips, a Jasper area outfitter and guide who made the disputed first ascent of Mount Robson in 1909.
Typically, urban wilds are home to native vegetation and animal life as well as some introduced species.
Other uses Residential There are residences in the parish of Little Marlow, as well as Westhorpe House and the Westhorpe Park Mobile Home Park.
When part of the ground floor was occupied by more prestigious apartments or workshops, entrances to the private internal areas were often flanked by tabernae.
The urban wilds prioritized by municipalities tend to be partial wetlands that perform a range of ecological services while contributing to the biological diversity of the region.
George Rogers Clark had directed Linn to move the militia post to the mainland from its original off-shore location at Corn Island.
See also Greenway (landscape) Landscape architecture Landscape planning National Park Service#National Park System of the United States Principles of intelligent urbanism == References ==
Flora and ecology The gardens host a mixture of cultivated and spontaneous vegetation, including both ornamental species and native flora characteristic of Monte Erice.
Flor og Fjære is a collection of man-made tropical gardens on the island of Sør-Hidle outside of Stavanger, Norway.
Fort-on-Shore Fort-on-Shore (38°15.560′N 85°46.148′W), built in 1778 by William Linn, was the first on-shore fort on the Ohio River in the area of what is now downtown Louisville.
Bobur Park ( full name: Zahiriddin Muhammad Bobur Culture and Recreation Park) is a park located in Namangan, Uzbekistan.
Whereas "corbel" is rarely used outside architecture, "console" is widely used for furniture, as in console table, and other decorative arts where the motif appears.
Formal, extravagant pleasure gardens came to Roman Britain in the 1st century AD, such as can now be seen at Fishbourne Roman Palace.
Monitoring for the presence of brain lesions may be required following a large or repeated exposure.
Effects on human health Mycotoxins not only have a substantial impact on the safety of food products and the health of animals, but they can poison those who consume them and cause a wide range of symptoms and diseases in humans.
A high-resolution technique was developed to detect F-actin at the light and electron microscopic levels by using phalloidin conjugated to the fluorophore eosin which acts as the fluorescent tag.
It causes profound activation of the peripheral parasympathetic nervous system that may end in circulatory collapse and death.
In the end the following symptoms might occur: a high fever, petechial haemorrhage, necrosis of muscles and skin, bacterial infections of the necrotic tissue, enlarged lymph nodes.
Studies have shown that it can cause diseases such as equine leukoencephalomalacia in horses, hydrothorax and porcine pulmonary edema in swine, and it can negatively affect the immune system.
Consequently, immunofluorescence microscopy along with microinjection of phalloidin can be used to evaluate the direct and indirect functions of cytoplasmic actin in its different stages of polymer formation.
The disease has also been reported in cattle, goats, donkeys, horses, and pigs, and has been experimentally induced in various other species, including rabbits, guinea pigs, mice, rats, dogs, ducklings, and chickens.
Other animals are susceptible as well, and can experience growth retardation, reproductive disorders, and vomiting if the substance is consumed.
Zearalanone can be extracted from foodstuffs along with aflatoxins in the same time by a specific immunoaffinity column.
Metabolism While there is no specific study on the metabolism of roridin E, there have been studies on the metabolism of structurally related trichothecenes.
This core ring structure contains an epoxide bridging carbons 12 and 13, as well as a double bond between carbons 9 and 10.
In February–March 2013 several European countries, including Romania, Serbia, Croatia reported nationwide contamination of milk for human consumption (and possibly of derivative products) with aflatoxins.
Moniliformin is formed in many cereals by a number of Fusarium species that include Fusarium moniliforme, Fusarium avenaceum, Fusarium subglutinans, Fusarium proliferatum, Fusarium fujikuroi and others.
Regulation of Biosynthesis Some gliotoxin molecules are not secreted by GliA and remain in the cell.
Although no significant systemic effects are expected after dermal contact in normal agricultural or residential environments, local skin effects can not be excluded.
Properties Satratoxin-H is almost completely insoluble in water, but is easily soluble in lower alcohols and polar solvents such as ethanol, methanol, 2-propanol, acetone and chloroform.
It is a potent suicidal inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase, an enyzme in the citric acid cycle and mitochondrial energy chain.
Further metabolism leads to the formation of several smaller organic molecules such as amines (M), carbon dioxide (N) and acetic acid (O).
Lupinosis, also known as phomopsin toxicosis or mycotoxinic lupinosis, is a mycotoxicosis primarily affecting sheep, caused by ingestion of phomopsins—mycotoxins produced by the fungus Diaporthe toxica (formerly identified as Phomopsis leptostromiformis).
The 2-2’linked secalonic acid A isomerizes in DMSO at room temperature to the 2-4’linked secalonic acid A and 4-4’linked secalonic acid A during 13hr, to reach an equilibrium of 3.2 : 2 : 1.
This procedure requires eight steps, and uses Suzuki–Miyaura coupling and oxidation of methylene acetal.
Nevertheless, Russia announced it would ban imports from the German farms that received contaminated feed.
It was shown to be a 2,2’- biaryl linked dimer in 1963 and the structure confirmed that year by single-crystal X-ray analysis.
It has been shown to be an intermediate in the biosynthesis of allantofuranone, a gamma-lactone antibiotic from the fungus Allantophomopsis lycopodina.
albicans is associated with damage to host epithelial cells; during this process Candidalysin is released and intercalates in host membranes.
Bolesatine causes gastroenteritis in humans and, at high enough concentrations, inhibits protein synthesis.
Orellanine displays tautomerism, with the more stable tautomer being the pyridine N-oxide form.The chemical structure of synthetically produced orellanine has been confirmed by X-ray crystallography.
FB4 is similar to fumonisin B2 and fumonisin B3 but it is lacking a hydroxy group located gamma- to the amino substituent while lacking two hydroxy groups compared to fumonisin B1.
As mentioned by Fox et al, this class of ‘unusually stable’ derivatives are dienophiles when involved in a Diels-Alder reaction.
The nucleus then moves to the outside of the membrane, but stays connected to the cell by a thread-like cytoplasmic bridge.
More than one study has shown that detectable levels of zearalenone and its metabolite alpha-zearalanol in girls are associated with significantly shorter heights at menarche.
The mechanisms underlying its toxicity and metabolism have been investigated by studying its interaction with mammalian cytochrome P450 enzymes.
Satratoxin-H, a trichothecene mycotoxin, is a naturally occurring toxin produced by the ascomycetes Stachybotrys chartarum and Trichoderma cornu-damae which is highly toxic and potentially fatal to humans and other animals.
Diagnosis and treatment Generally, diagnosis of slaframine toxicity is done by observation of clinical signs (salivation) in animals consuming legume forage, particularly red clover hay.
Candidalysin promotes damage of oral epithelial cells and induces lactate dehydrogenase release and calcium ion influx.
It is the β epimer of zeranol (α-zearalanol) and is a major metabolite of zeranol but with less biological activity.
Ustalic acid is a naturally occurring chemical compound found in the poisonous mushroom Tricholoma ustale.
The researchers found the desulfurized phalloidin was still circular, which demonstrated that the structure of phalloidin is normally bicyclic.
Slaframine poisoning or slobbers usually occur in a cooler and wetter spring or fall because these seasons are ideal for the growth of the fungus Rhizoctonia leguminicola.
If a larger dose is consumed, symptoms of a hemorrhagic fever will occur, as well as mental impairment.
Orellanine has been found to inhibit the synthesis of biomolecules such as proteins, RNA, and DNA, and promote non-competitive inhibition of several enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase, γ-glutamyltransferase, and leucyl aminopeptidase.
The mechanism is that 3-nitroprionionic induces reactive oxygen species and oxidizes dopamine generating dopamine-quinones which can reduce the activity of MAO-A.
Its first practical synthesis was reported in 1947 by Ralph Raphael, who had worked on penicillin during World War II.
The outer leaflet of cancer cell membranes appears to be enriched with negatively charged phospholipids, which seems to explain the antitumor properties of ribotoxins.
Aeruginascin, also known as 4-phosphoryloxy-N,N,N-trimethyltryptamine (4-PO-TMT), is an indoleamine derivative which occurs naturally within the mushrooms Inocybe aeruginascens, Pholiotina cyanopus, and Psilocybe cubensis.
Reproduction Zearalenone structure is similar to estrogens and α-zearalenol binds with an even greater affinity estrogen receptors, while β-zearalenol's affinity is lower than both the parent compound's and α-Zel's binding affinity.
In mice (given 20 mg nivalenol /kg bw orally or 3.7 mg /kg bw ip) the DNA of kidney, bone marrow, stomach, jejunum and colon was damaged.
Factors that will probably induce this reversibility are reduction of cellular FB1-concentration and increasing of cellular concentrations of the substrates for ceramide synthase.
Use and effects Pharmacology Like psilocin, 4-HO-TMT shows affinity for the serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2B receptors.
Tenuazonic acid has been a compound of interest in drug development research for Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Prenyltransferase catalyzes the formation of a dimethyl-cyclopentane and a cyclobutane using the intermediate's aromatic ring-alcohol group.
Uses Patulin was originally used as an antibiotic against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, but after several toxicity reports, it is no longer used for that purpose.
It has also been isolated from Myrothecium roridum, a pathogen leaf spot that affects mulberry, though it is unknown if it is used as a pathotoxin.
Beauvericin is a depsipeptide with antibiotic and insecticidal effects belonging to the enniatin family.
The slobber symptoms pass slowly when the contaminated hay is removed, however clinical signs may persist for 1–2 days following removal of the toxic forage.
Its role as an upstream precursor has relevance towards food safety, natural product chemistry, and pharmaceutical development.
Contact with the solution through ingestion, inhalation, or even prolonged physical contact produces symptoms similar to those listed below.
Acute toxicity The oral LD50 range of aflatoxin B1 is estimated to be 0.3–17.9 mg/kg body weight for most animal species.
As chemical agents, the fumonisins are distinct from the large family of Fusarium trichothecene (T-2-type) mycotoxins, and from the Fusarium estrogenic metabolite, zearalenone, an F-2-type mycotoxin.
However, its affinities for these receptors are lower than those of psilocin (by 8-, 6-, and 26-fold, respectively).
Legume hays contaminated with slaframine cause slobber syndrome and various animals are sensitive to its effects.
Synthesis The first synthesis of orellanine was reported in 1985 by Dehmlow and Schulz, and required ten steps starting from 3-aminopyridine.
It functions by binding and stabilizing filamentous actin (F-actin) and effectively prevents the depolymerization of actin fibers.
This was caused by a shipment of high-quality second-cutting red clover-orchard grass hay from a usual supplier in West Virginia.
In mice, the oral LD50 of this molecule is 2.5 mg/kg and poisoning is indicated by an increase in serum creatine phosphokinase activity.
Moisture availability, particularly high humidity and water activity, is a critical determinant of fungal colonization and toxin synthesis both in the field and during storage.
Another mycotoxin, ochratoxin, has carcinogenic and immunosuppressive effects, and can facilitate urinary tract development difficulties.
If rice, corn, cereals or meat products are contaminated with Penicillin citreoviridin, citreoviridin can be produced if the food is stored in a damp place.
It also proved to be an effective antimicrobial agent against the Gram-positive bacteria (Bacillus megaterium) and the Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia coli) and was found to be antifungal against (Microbotryum violaceum) and antialgal against (Chlorella fusca).
Teratogenic manifestations included anomalous extremities development, macrocephaly, abnormal head-to-body size ratio and absence of the head.
As the effect of T-2 toxin, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were observed in several mammalian species.
The affinity for the hippocampus could be relevant to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and subchronic administration to rodents induces hippocampal neurodegeneration.
Beauvericin is active against Gram-positive bacteria and mycobacteria, and is also capable of inducing programmed cell death in mammals.
Administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 to rats for six consecutive days, before acid dosage, exerted preventive effects on all alterations elicited by the toxin, like mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid peroxidation, by activation of the CB1 receptor.
Cytochalasin E, however, was noted to decrease glucose absorption in mice around the intestinal tissues by increasing the Km needed for glucose to reach the Vmax, which meant that a higher concentration of glucose was required in its presence to attain Vmax.
Synthesis of penitrem A involves six oxidative-transformation enzymes (four cytochrome P450 monooxygenases and two flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent monooxygenases), two acetyltransferases, one oxidoreductase, and one prenyltransferase.
Alpha-zearalanol is also produced semisynthetically, for veterinary use; such use is prohibited in the European Union.
Vioxanthin is a mycotoxin that was first isolated from the pathogenic fungus Trichophyton violaceum and characterized in 1966.
Use in medical research Recent studies have found that because 3-nitropropionic acid is a mitochondrial toxin, it can produce striatal alterations in rats similar to those observed in the brain of Huntington's disease (HD) patients.
Mechanism of action Multiple experiments have shown the different effects of PR toxin: it can cause damage to the liver and kidney, can induce carcinogenicity, and can in vivo inhibit DNA replication, protein synthesis, and transcription.
Several studies have shown that optimal conditions for fungal growth are not necessarily optimum for toxin production.
Reports of phalloidin in the edible (and sought after) Blusher (Amanita rubescens) have not been confirmed by later researchers Chemical structures == References ==
Levels of IL-8 and cell viability were also reduced to 80% and 20% when exposed to respectively 25 and 50 μg/mL CTN for 72 hours.
They differ from the closely related amatoxins by being one residue smaller, both in the final product and the precursor protein.
The possible presence of the toxin renders these species "suspected, dangerous, or not recommended" for consumption.
Its ion-complexing capability allows beauvericin to transport alkaline earth metal and alkali metal ions across cell membranes.
In the European Union, the limit is also set at 50 micrograms per kilogram (μg/kg) in apple juice and cider, at 25 μg/kg in solid apple products, and at 10 μg/kg in products for infants and young children.
The European Space Agency (ESA) has attempted to seek new options in terms of bipropellant rocket combinations to avoid using toxic chemicals such as MMH and its relatives.
Activated charcoal is often used to remove other types of toxins or poisoning that have been ingested.
In 2015, a unique supposed class of non-aminated fumonisins was reported on grapes infected with Aspergillus welwitschiae, where toxicities have not yet been established.
Mycotoxins are secondary metabolites produced by filamentous fungi, commonly detected as contaminants in agricultural commodities globally.
Together with some earlier experiments it has been proved that the PR toxin was indeed active on the cell metabolism.
It was tested on Swiss mice and found to be very toxic, though not the most toxic of the three toxins that were tested at that time.
Additionally, in another study, the EC50Tooltip half-maximal effective concentration value of 4-HO-TMT in activating the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor was 324-fold lower than that of psilocin (6,800 nM and 21 nM, respectively).
The structural arrangement is very similar to that of other extracellular fungal RNases, which are not toxic, and constitute a family whose best known representative is the RNase T1 of Aspergillus oryzae.
Cytochalasin E, a member of the cytochalasin group, is an inhibitor of actin polymerization in blood platelets.
In animal studies, consumption of polyporic acid caused reduced locomotor activity, depressed visual placing response, hepatorenal failure, metabolic acidosis, hypokalaemia, and hypocalcaemia.
Related compounds Aristolochene Aflatoxin Patulin References External links Roquefortine C on https://www.scbt.com
Although zeranol may increase cancer cell proliferation in already existing breast cancer, dietary exposure from the use of zeranol-containing implants in cattle is insignificant.
Fumonisin B2 is a fumonisin mycotoxin produced by the fungi Fusarium verticillioides (formerly Fusarium moniliforme) and Aspergillus niger.
Dietary intake of patulin from apple juice has been estimated at between 0.03 and 0.26 μg per kg body weight per day in various age groups and populations.
The nephrotoxic effects of ochratoxin A and citrinin, for example, are increased synergistic when exposure to both takes place.
Interactions occur between sulfur molecules that make up the disulfide bridge and thiol groups contained in cysteine residues.
The excess Ca2+ results in the enhancement of the mitochondrial electron transport system which will further increase the number of reactive oxygen species.
It is closely related to the frog skin toxin bufotenidine (5-HTQ), a potent serotonin 5-HT3 receptor agonist, but the aeruginascin metabolite 4-HO-TMT (thought to be its active form) shows strong binding at the serotonin 5-HT2 receptors similar to psilocin.
It also demonstrates new concepts in organic chemistry (reagents, reaction types) and opens the way to molecular derivatives not found in nature.
See also Substituted tryptamine References External links Aeruginascin - Isomer Design Aeruginascin - Trout's Notes
Occurrence Dimethylaziridine carboxylic acid occurs in enantiopure 2S form in the mushroom Pleurocybella porrigens.
After this stereoselective cyclization, a series of hydride shifts along with a single 1,2-rearrangement forms the stable enantioselective (+)-aristolochene product.
Subacute toxicity Subacute toxicity studies of aflatoxin B1 in animals showed moderate to severe liver damage.
Chronic symptoms include induction of hepatomas in rats, pulmonary tumours in mice, renal lesions and alterations in the liver and kidneys of African Green monkeys.
Currently Fumonisin B4's toxicity compared to Fumonisin B1 or B2 is unknown as further research is actively ongoing, however in nature its concentration is significantly lower.
Penicillic acid is a mycotoxin that is produced by Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus ostianus and Penicillium roqueforti mold.
Chemically speaking, it is the sodium salt of deoxysquaric acid (the other name of that acid is semisquaric acid).
As with other chemical compound targets in organic chemistry, the organic synthesis of aflatoxins serves various purposes.
In greenhouse experiments the fungus killed 100 percent of the kudzu seeds, and, in outdoor trials, 90-100 percent of older plants.
Cyclopiazonic acid is an incredibly common mycotoxin, appearing all over the globe and in food items and crops belonging to many cultures.
It is thought that GliA, GtmA, and GliT provide mechanisms for self-protection against gliotoxin toxicity for the fungi that produce and excrete gliotoxin.
Additionally, ergot alkaloids can cause symptoms like indigestion, hallucinations, kidney failure, heart failure and limb numbness in humans.
2), which occurs in higher concentrations in endophyte-infected grass plants, has greater insect toxicity than some other lolines, which occur at lower concentrations in the grass plant.
Herbicide use Trichothecenes have been found to cause growth retardation, wilting, chlorosis, and necrosis in some plants.
Additional effects include reproductive issues like abortions in late pregnancy, embryonic deaths, reduced lambing percentages, decreased wool production and quality, nutritional myopathy, and starvation ketosis in cattle.
The (+)-enantiomer was later identified and experimentally confirmed in Penicillium roqueforti through studies centered around aristolochene synthase activity and the ari1 locus which encodes the enzyme.
In particular, solid-phase correction and immunoaffinity chromatography cartridges offer good possibilities for efficient clean up.
Satratoxin-H has little effect on bare skin, and does not blister it in the way many chemical weapons do.
Along with β-zearalenol, it is a major metabolite of zearalenone formed mainly in the liver but also to a lesser extent in the intestines during first-pass metabolism.
The first step in most exposure cases is to remove potentially contaminated clothing and to flush the sites of exposure thoroughly with water.
Across 23 analyzed cases of accidental hallucinogenic mushroom poisonings, people who had ingested the mushroom Inocybe aeruginascens reported only euphoric experiences.
In contrast, it targets glutamate-gated chloride channels in invertebrates, causing increased chloride permeability without affecting their excitatory glutamate receptors.
The de-epoxinated nivalenol gained is therefore much less toxic, same as every de-epoxinated trichodiene, and can be segregated into the urine without having much toxic effects anymore (nearly non-toxic).
bisporus, also known as the portobello or common button mushroom, is of particular socio-economic importance in developed countries.
In 2001, it was demonstrated that the endophyte Neotyphodium uncinatum produces lolines in some chemically defined growth media, which suggests that the endophyte is also the producer of the lolines in the grass plant.
It is a secondary metabolite product of fungi of the genus Fusarium and may cause toxicosis in farm animals.
See also List of deadly fungi (for lethal species only) List of poisonous fungi (including non-deadly species that are nevertheless harmful) Pathogenic fungus References External links Poisonous mushrooms: microscopic identification in cooked specimens from medical mycologist R.C.
When force-fed to mice, ustalic acid causes them to sit still in a crouched position, hesitant to move, and induces tremors and abdominal contractions.
As shown in the example in the figure (of fumonisin B1), members of the family are composed of a central "chai[n] of about 20 carbons", and bear an "acidic ester, acetylamino and sometimes other substituents".
A NAD(P)+ dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase (CitD) is encoded by mrl4 and another dehydrogenase (CitE) is encoded by mrl6.
"Poisonous mushrooms taste bad." – People who have eaten the deadly Amanitas and survived have reported that the mushrooms tasted quite good.
Beauvericin has in vitro fungicidal effects on Candida parapsilosis when used in combination with the antifungal drug ketoconazole at dosages of 0.1 μg/ml.
This reduces production of the neurotransmitter GABA via decreased activity of glutamic acid decarboxylase, which gives rise to the neurological symptoms.
Fusarins are a class of mycotoxins produced mainly by fungi of the genus Fusarium, which can infect agriculturally important crops such as wheat, barley, oats, rye, and corn.
Identification When foraging for mushrooms in the wild, it is important to be cautious of ones that may not be safe to eat.
Zeranol is approved for use as a growth promoter in livestock, including beef cattle, under the brand name Ralgro (by Merck Animal Health) in the United States.
Individuals taking immunosuppressive medications or with previous or current exposure to chemotherapy radiation are at higher risk for the development of these tumors.
The symptoms of coprine poisoning and alcohol consumption are similar to those induced by disulfiram (marketed as Antabuse), a drug utilized to treat chronic alcoholism by inducing severe side-effects to alcohol consumption.
When observing fusaproliferin, and its analogues, a high binding affinity with TLR4 was detected, influencing inflammatory immune responses.
However, upon contact with sensitive surfaces (eyes, interior of mouth or nose), inflammation will occur.
In humans, it was tested as an antiviral intranasally for use against the common cold with few significant adverse effects, yet also had negligible or no beneficial effect.
Potential for toxicity Although recognized as an experimental carcinogen when used in high laboratory doses, there is inadequate evidence to classify Agaritine as carcinogenic to humans in amounts ingested from consuming mushrooms.
The hydroxyl group of the ring opened compound is then oxidized to a carboxylic acid using a mix of TEMPO, sodium chlorite, and PIDA dissolved in acetonitrile.
Treatment of isocyanatocyclopropane with hydrochloric acid leads to the hydrochloride of 1-aminocyclopropanol.
Secalonic acid A has antitumor properties and also reduces colchicines toxicity in rat cortical neurons.
Sterpuric acid is a phytotoxic metabolite derived from the fungus Stereum purpureum, from which it derives its name.
The biosynthesis of α-CPA is dependent on other pathways, specifically the mevalonate pathway, which serves to form DMAPP.
A larger group is the partially hydrolysed form, denoted as PHFB4, which has been detected using HPLC-ITMS.
Biosynthesis Viriditoxin is a secondary metabolite, a polyketide produced from multiple acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA units which are combined by a polyketide synthase (PKS) enzyme complex.
The lolines have also been reported from some plants in several plant families, suggesting a more widespread occurrence of these compounds in nature.
While most phomoxanthones were discovered in fungi of the genus Phomopsis, most notably in the species Phomopsis longicolla, some have also been found in Penicillium sp.
The structure of all phomoxanthones is derived from a dimer of two covalently linked tetrahydroxanthones, and they differ mainly in the position of this link as well as in the acetylation status of their hydroxy groups.
It is a structural analog of fumonisin B3, while it is lacking one hydroxy group compared to fumonisin B1.
The phomoxanthones are named after the fungus Phomopsis, from which they were first isolated, and after their xanthonoid structure.
The detection of vioxanthin in food products has been used as evidence of contamination with these fungi.
History Lupinosis was first recognized as a disease in Germany in 1872, when numerous sheep deaths were associated with ingesting lupin plants.
Society and culture Legal status Muscimol is not a controlled substance and is unregulated in most of the world.
Mycotoxin prevention Studies on mycotoxins show that there are three ways to preventing them from contaminating feed.
2 HON(CH(CH3)CO2H)2 + VO2+ → [V{NO[CH(CH3)CO2]2}2]2− + H2O + 4 H+ Biological function The biological function of amavadin is unknown.
Taleranol (INN, USAN) (developmental code name P-1560), or teranol, also known as β-zearalanol, is a synthetic, nonsteroidal estrogen of the resorcylic acid lactone group related to mycoestrogens found in Fusarium spp which was never marketed.
The first indication for this theory came from finding high levels of pollen in the collected samples, giving the substance its yellow color.
Another interesting finding is the decreased activity of respiratory control and oxidative phosphorylation in the (isolated) mitochondria of the liver .
Monomethylhydrazine is a possible occupational carcinogen, and the occupational exposure limits to MMH are set at protective levels to account for the possible carcinogenicity.
Toxic effects The risks of fumonisin B1 have been evaluated by The World Health Organization's International Programme on Chemical Safety and the Scientific Committee on Food of the European Commission.
The dose of muscimol that is thought to be potentially fatal in humans is 90 mg, which is 15 times its threshold active dose of 6 mg.
α-Zearalenol is a nonsteroidal estrogen of the resorcylic acid lactone group related to mycoestrogens found in Fusarium spp.
History Orellanine first came to people's attention in 1952 when a mass poisoning of 102 people in Konin, Poland resulted in 11 deaths.
Cancer cells thus favor autophagy due to its role in countering metabolic stresses induced by anti-cancer drugs such as bortezomib in order to regenerate healthier cancer cells for continued proliferation and growth.
Roquefortine C has been commonly detected in documented cases of penitrem A poisoning, making it a possible biomarker for diagnoses.
AFLP-based studies using crosses between strains of the endophyte, Epichloë festucae, that differ in the capacity to produce lolines, show that loline production and protection of the grass, Lolium giganteum, from feeding by the aphid, Rhopalosiphum padi, segregate in a Mendelian fashion.
Cytochalasin E was also found to inhibit autophagy, a process vital in recycling dysfunctional cells and cellular components.
Paxillus involutus (brown roll-rim) – once thought edible, but now found to destroy red blood cells with regular or long-term consumption.
Effects of bolesatine poisoning Other than the accumulation of toxins in human liver and organs, Bolesatine poisoning causes agglutination in human red blood cells and platelets at threshold concentrations.
Structure Natural viriditoxin exists as a single atropisomer owing to restricted rotation about the C-C bond which joins the two naphthol rings.
Fumonisin B2 and other fumonisins frequently contaminate maize and other crops, while recently it has been shown using LC–MS/MS that FB2 can contaminate coffee beans as well.
Gliotoxin is also the only toxin that has been isolated from the sera of patients with invasive aspergillosis.
Pharmacology Pharmacodynamics Muscarine mimics the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine by agonising muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.
Aflatoxins in particular add another dimension because it is suspected that they have been mass-produced in the past from biological sources as part of a biological weapons program.
However isoroquefortine C is not a fungal product and in contrast to roquefortine C does not bind iron.
A very large prospective cohort in Sweden explores correlations between RCC occurrence, diets rich in vegetables and poultry (so-called "healthy diets"), and diets rich in meat (especially processed meat: salami, black pudding).
The IC50 for human breast cancer cells was determined to be 0.002 mg/L showing significant cytotoxic effects.
On faulty advice from a friend who was also a doctor, the composer Johann Schobert insisted that certain poisonous mushrooms he had gathered were edible despite the express warning of cooks at two separate restaurants to which he had taken the mushrooms.
In the 1960s, about 100,000 turkey poults died in southeastern England due to peanut meal that was contaminated by mycotoxins produced by Aspergillus flavus.
Symptoms usually resolve within a few hours of ingestion but can last for days following significant exposures.
Genotoxicity In mammalian cells in vitro, citrinin did not induce DNA single-strand breaks, oxidative DNA damage or sister chromatids exchanges but induced micronuclei, aneuploidy and chromosomal aberrations.
Physiologically, inhibition of the sodium-potassium pump generally causes diarrhea, as it prevents water reabsorption from the intestines.
Natural occurrence appears to be infrequent although only a limited number of surveys have been carried out.
Efficacy In vitro studies showed that a concentration of 30 μM of cytochalasin B significantly reduces the relative viscosity of a 20 μM normal actin filament solution as well as it has decreased in a 20 μMm glutathionyl-actin filament solution.
However, in some cases, CPA acts to enable store-operated calcium entry(SOCE), a process in which calcium-permeable channels are activated due to inhibition of the standard SERCA pump.
Further outbreaks of leukoencephalomalacia and people in certain regions with high incidence of esophageal cancer led to more research on F.
Efficacy As muscarine works on the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor, the best comparison can be made with acetylcholine, which normally works on this receptor.
Today it is known that ribotoxins constitute a broad family, produced by many types of fungi, with common characteristics that make them optimal candidates to be used for biotechnological purposes, such as pest control, and for the development of anti-cancer drugs in the form of immunotoxins.
Each of these disciplines (rhetoric, sociolinguistics, discourse analysis, conversation analysis, etc.) is based on a specific interest.
noun, verb, pronoun, preposition) in formal, written sentences in a restricted number of "valued" varieties of English.
MDA has a concrete link to the social practice theory developed by Bourdieu, in that Scollon (2001a, p.
In systemic functional grammar, a thematic equative is a thematic resource in which two or more separate elements in a clause are grouped together to form a single constituent of the theme-plus-rheme structure.
For example, two notably distinct discourses can be used about various guerrilla movements, describing them either as "freedom fighters" or "terrorists".
The essential difference between discourse analysis and text linguistics is that discourse analysis aims at revealing socio-psychological characteristics of a person/persons rather than text structure.
Halliday's seminal Introduction to Functional Grammar (first edition, 1985) spawned a new research discipline and related pedagogical approaches.
Ulrike Hanna Meinhof is an Emeritus Professor in the Department of Modern Languages at the University of Southampton in Hampshire.
L2 (English) Corpora Cambridge Learner Corpus Corpus of Academic Written and Spoken English (CAWSE), a collection of Chinese students’ English language samples in academic settings.
Since the beginning of her academic career, she has studied humour, irony, impoliteness and deception from both theoretical and empirical angles, based on film discourse and social media data.
As a functional linguistic theory, it claims that both the emergence of grammar and the particular forms that grammars take should be explained "in terms of the functions that language evolved to serve".
The term was first coined by the American applied linguist Robert Kaplan in 1966 to denote eclecticism and subsequent growth of collective knowledge in certain languages.
So, here's a carefully packaged sentence that shows me in my best light The Guardian Oliver James 26 Jul 2013
Halliday argues that the meanings we make in such processes are most closely related to the experiential function.
And in February 2016, BYU Law School hosted the inaugural conference on LCL, with over two dozen legal and linguistic scholars from around the country discussing and debating the next steps forward for the growing academic movement.
The company has been repeatedly criticized by linguists for promoting misinformation about language.
Trainees listened through headphones to recordings containing expressions such as 'Bakugeki junbi taikei tsukure' (Take up formation for bombing).
The graph in the re-formulation by Mizutani is more easily interpreted, and shows a scatter plot of nouns versus other word classes.
Papers from the 29th International Conference on English Language Research on Computerized Corpora (ICAME 29).
The archaeological method focused on discursive statements and archives (épistémès), whereas the genealogical approach re-centres the problem of the production of knowledge around questions of power and is grounded in an institutional analysis (dispositifs).
The most salient difference is that a translation memory loses the original context, while a bitext retains the original sentence order.
Contextualist accounts of knowledge became increasingly popular toward the end of the 20th century, particularly as responses to the problem of skepticism.
A single text may belong to several regional subcorpora (if the author or translator was born, studied, or lived for a long time in different regions).
Matthiessen has suggested that the approach could be used with other global semiotic dimensions, specifying: the cline of instantiation the spectrum of metafunction the hierarchy of rank the hierarchy of axis See also Trinocular vision == References ==
For example, the meaning of the phrase "the Queen" may be determined by the country in which it is spoken.
The corpus of an ancient city, (for example the "Kültepe Texts" of Turkey), may go through a series of corpora, determined by their find site dates.
There is one more referential device, which cannot create cohesion: Exophoric reference is used to describe generics or abstracts without ever identifying them (in contrast to anaphora and cataphora, which do identify the entity and thus are forms of endophora): e.g.
Poynton was a pioneer in the description of tenor and interpersonal meaning, which later became foundational to the development of the appraisal framework.
Utilizing Gumperz's framework this way that showed that this type of therapy is perhaps creating a bigger divide between patients and staff.
Contextualization does not only ease everyday understand of language and language interactions, but it also aids in language learning and comprehension in an academic setting.
Examples of dangling "so": "Yeah, it's pretty exciting, though we're not really sure whether it will work out, so..." Speaker 1: "How was your date?" Speaker 2: "Well, he didn't show up, so..." Intensifying adverb "So" may close a sentence as an intensifying adverb, such as in "I love her so".
Text corpora are used by both AI developers to train large language models and corpus linguists and within other branches of linguistics for statistical analysis, hypothesis testing, finding patterns of language use, investigating language change and variation, and teaching language proficiency.
The corpus covers the period from 1816 to 2025, and as of 29 November 2025 it contains more than 812,000 texts by about 35,000 authors.
During translation, sentences can be split, merged, deleted, inserted or reordered by the translator.
Linguistic analysis, methods such as examining linguistic structures and the roles they play within conversational discourse, play a large role in using discourse analysis to establish relational frameworks.
Thus, various types of comparative studies and applications in information technology as well as development of often related innovative applications have been possible.
At one end of the spectrum would lie CDA and its focus on how wider discourses in the social realm affect language used by actors: whilst at the other end of this spectrum would feature conversation analysis, with its highly detailed focus on linguistic construction.
Modernism further gave rise to the liberal discourses of rights, equality, freedom, and justice; however, this rhetoric masked substantive inequality and failed to account for differences, according to Regnier.
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 2.074, ranking it 17th out of 58 journals in the category "Educational Psychology (social science)" and 39th out of 84 journals in the category "Experimental Psychology (social science)".
Results from the extensive and accumulative data analysis contained in LIVAC have enabled the cultivation of textual databases of proper names, place names, organization names, new words, and bi-weekly and annual rosters of media figures.
Some words are often found together because they make up a compound noun, for example 'riding boots' or 'motor cyclist' or ‘collocation extraction’ its very self.
Berger and Thomas Luckmann who in the 1960s studied the processes involved in the social construction of generally accessible everyday knowledge in their defining work, The Social Construction of Reality.
Treebanks also provide evidence of coverage and support the discovery of new, unanticipated, grammatical phenomena.
The field brought attention to cultural and associated linguistic habits in expression of English language.
Career Marta Dynel received her PhD (2006) from the University of Łódź, followed by habilitation (dr Litt.) in 2012 and a full professor degree in 2022.
The analysis of appraisal has also become influential outside Systemic Functional Linguistics, in various types of discourse analysis.
To wit, the énoncés (statements) constitute a network of rules that establish which expressions are discursively meaningful; the rules are the preconditions for signifying propositions, utterances, and acts of speech to have discursive meaning.
The interviewer, an African-American graduate student in educational psychology, has been sent to interview a woman at her home in a low-income neighborhood.
Formulaic language pause fillers include "Like", "Er" and "Um", and paralinguistic expressive respiratory pauses include the sigh and gasp.
Since this is a competition of ideas, a particular imaginary is 'successful' when people, the more the better, consider that imaginary common sense, i.e.
John Arnold Bateman (born 1957) is a British linguist and semiotician known for his research on natural language generation and multimodality.
When examined by itself, "me too" does not convey Speaker B's stance nor what they are talking about.
He invests his entire self in discourse, and this discourse enters into the dialogic fabric of human life, into the world symposium." Bakhtin's understanding of dialogue Dialogue is usually analyzed as some kind of interaction between two monads on the basis of a pre-conceived model.
In the phrasing of this response, the speaker is either warning John not join the group, or is giving him orientation so that he can understand the context of the discussion and participate.
Speaking is one among other symbolic resources which are allocated and distributed in social situations according to distinctive culture patterns." Hymes also used EOC to argue against the strong view of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, the idea that one's language determines one's cognitive ability.
Interactional stances In Conversation analysis, stance is used to express various nuances of action or an overlay to an action.
Furthermore, the illocutionary act is implicitly describing what the speaker is doing even though the utterance is lacking a performative verb.
A unique feature of the thematic equative is its conveying of a meaning of exclusiveness in the rheme.
In a society there are competing discourses (or narratives) regarding anything and everything such as feminism, racism, casteism, communalism, regionalism, economic development, democracy, governance, etc.
From 1998 onwards he has worked at the Universities of Essex and Nottingham and at the Postgraduate Programme of the Department of Political Science and History of Panteion University.
It was first created in the English language and the English WordNet database and software tools have been released under a BSD style license and are freely available for download.
The Google Books Ngram Viewer was developed in the hope of opening a new window to quantitative research in the humanities field, and the database contained 500 billion words from 5.2 million books publicly available from the very beginning.
According to Scahill, an individual arguing "for the children" makes it extremely difficult for an opponent to hold a "not for the children" position.
Each sample is 2,000 or more words (ending at the first sentence-end after 2,000 words, so that the corpus contains only complete sentences).
Whorf "showed how it is that human beings do not all mean alike, and how their unconscious ways of meaning are among the most significant manifestations of their culture".
Her main areas of research involve ethnographic research in European border communities and a comparative media-project about the 20th century on television.
Modern etymologists link it to the north-African Arab term tafaya/attatfíha, which refers to a stew of onion and coriander.
In the latter area he has written various handbooks: Initiation aux méthodes de l’analyse du discours (1976), Nouvelles tendances en analyse du discours (1987), Analyser les textes de communication (1998), Discours et analyse du discours (2014).
In Practice In terms of research methods, interactional sociolinguists analyze audio or video recordings of conversations or other interactions.
As a lexical ontology WordNet is sometimes called an ontology, a persistent claim that its creators do not make.
These conditions are called felicity conditions and are divided into three different categories: the essential condition, the sincerity condition, and the preparatory condition.
The data collection involved in MDA is relatively straightforward, with perhaps the exception of the desirability to record events at the site of engagement, which might result in access issues in some cases.
However, it should be obvious that only by a process of correcting and completing a corpus by hand is it possible then to identify rules absent from the parser knowledge base.
In the case of 'affect', for instance, these more delicate choices relate to different types of emotion.
Address and the semiotics of social relations: A systemic-functional account of address forms and practices in Australian English.
In the Science paper, Lieberman and his collaborators called the method of high-volume data analysis in digitized texts "culturomics".
Wallis (2008) discusses the principles of searching treebanks in detail and reviews the state of the art around that time.
"Grammar, language and the social: Poststructuralism and systemic-functional linguistics." Social Semiotics 3.1.
This "literally", according to Hugh Kenner, means what Lily herself would say, and not the classical literary narrator.
The JRC-Acquis Multilingual Parallel Corpus of the total body of European Union (EU) law: Acquis Communautaire with 231 language pairs.
With rates Y 0 , y , Y 1 {\displaystyle Y_{0},y,Y_{1}} for usage of another word class of the same 3 literatures, respectively, then 3 points, ( X 0 , Y 0 ) , ( x , y ) , ( X 1 , Y 1 ) {\displaystyle (X_{0},Y_{0}),(x,y),(X_{1},Y_{1})} will approximately be located on a line.
Bitexts are generated by a piece of software called an alignment tool, or a bitext tool, which automatically aligns the original and translated versions of the same text.
an approach to linguistic analysis based on the view that language patterns cannot be accounted for in terms of a single system of analytic principles and categories ...
The International Computer Archive of Modern and Medieval English (ICAME) is an international group of linguists and data scientists working in corpus linguistics to digitise English texts.
Satellite discourse in a changing Europe (with Kay Richardson), London & New York: Routledge, 1999 English in a Changing World (with David Graddol) (1999) Intertextuality and the Media: from Genre to Everyday life (with Jonathan M.
Consistency of textual location refers not to any gross notion of location, such as every other paragraph or every five lines.
History Early use of the term There is ongoing discussion about whether Austria-born Leo Spitzer's Stilstudien (Style Studies) of 1928 is the earliest example of discourse analysis (DA).
While other corpus projects of Russian are focused on fiction and edited texts, General Internet Corpus provides linguists timely opportunity to learn the language as it is, with all the slang and regional peculiarities.
Damon Mayaffre (born 1970) is a French academic, historian and linguist, specializing in the analysis of political discourse.
She then took up a part-time post of Professor in Psychology at the University of Auckland, New Zealand.
See also Collocational restriction Collostructional analysis Compound noun, adjective and verb Phrasal verb Siamese twins (English language) Terminology extraction n-gram analysis External links What is collocation == References ==
Examples of this work include Philipsen's study, which examined the ways in which blue-collar men living near Chicago spoke or did not speak based on communication context and personal identity relationship status (i.e.
Inclusiveness of politeness strategies Some claim that a few of these techniques may be used in more than one type of situation or more than one at a time.
Some contextualization cues include: intonation, accents, body language, type of language, and facial expressions (Andersen and Risør 2014).
In his study Joyce's Voices, Kenner analyzes in depth the use of this technique throughout the novel Ulysses.
Wörterbuch der Kriegstüchtigkeit (German pronunciation: [ˈvœʁtɐbʊx deːɐ̯ ˈkʁiːkstuːχtɪçkaɪt]; the title can be translated in various ways, such as “Dictionary of War Readiness”, “Dictionary of War Capability” or “Lexicon of Combat Capability”) is a German-language dictionary in the making.
Reception The philosopher Gilles Deleuze describes The Archaeology of Knowledge as, "the most decisive step yet taken in the theory-practice of multiplicities." See also Foucauldian discourse analysis References Further reading Deleuze, Gilles.
In addition, some other researchers focused on the acquaintance of politeness strategies and knowledge about politeness difference in foreign language education.
Sketch Engine: Open corpora with free access TS Corpus – A Turkish Corpus freely available for academic research.
An additional pitch-related variation is pitch range; speakers are capable of speaking with a wide range of pitch (this is usually associated with excitement), while at other times with a narrow range.
If the clerk had proceeded to explain what chocolate filbert is, then it is possible that the customer would have asked for some.
Part of the motivation was to support the benchmark-oriented methodology of DARPA's Human Language Technology program.
Payack, the GLM describes its role as "a media analytics company that documents, analyzes and tracks cultural trends in language the world over, with a particular emphasis upon International and Global English".
She is affiliated with the University of Łódź and Vilnius Gediminas Technical University, holding two research fellow positions.
ISBN 978-90-420-2127-3 / ISBN 90-420-2127-6 References External links Language and Computers on the publisher's website
Key publications Books Text generation and systemic-functional linguistics: experiences from English and Japanese (with Christian M.
This tenet of systemic functional linguistics is based on the claim that a speaker not only talks about something, but is always talking to and with others.
Democracy is the policy of government that tries to bring morality and politics closer to one another until they coincide.
The Global Wordnet project attempts to coordinate the production and linking of "wordnets" for all languages.
Teun Adrianus van Dijk (born 7 May 1943 in Naaldwijk, German-occupied Netherlands) is a scholar in the fields of text linguistics, discourse analysis and Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA).
Democracy is the form of government which gives, or tries to give, the people the illusion of their own sovereignty.
He received his MA and PhD degrees from the 'Ideology and Discourse Analysis' programme at the University of Essex.
Although related to breathing, pauses may contain contrastive linguistic content, as in the periods between individual words in English advertising voice-over copy sometimes placed to denote high information content, e.g.
This imaginary is particularly concerned with the role of power and politics, seeing data as situated within "a complex assemblage that actively shapes their constitution" according to Rob Kitchin, a leading scholar in the field.
He identifies that Léon Blum made limited use of the vocabulary pertaining to class struggle in the 1930s, in favor of language more palatable to the public.
Turkish National Corpus – A general-purpose corpus for contemporary Turkish Archived 2 April 2015 at the Wayback Machine Corpus of Political Speeches, Free access to political speeches by American and Chinese politicians, developed by Hong Kong Baptist University Library Russian National Corpus
For example, some terms generally considered context-sensitive are indexicals, such as 'I', 'here', and 'now'; while 'I' has a constant linguistic meaning in all contexts of use, whom it refers to varies with context.
Political discourse analysis is a field of discourse analysis which focuses on discourse in political forums (such as debates, speeches, and hearings) as the phenomenon of interest.
In the treatment of illness, the intellectual and material structures of la clinique, the teaching hospital, made possible the inspection, examination, and analysis of the human body, yet the clinic was part of the socio-economic interests of power.
By the early decades of the sixteenth century, vernacular versions of Aristotle's Poetics appeared, culminating in Lodovico Castelvetro's Italian editions of 1570 and 1576.
It mostly consists of a rapid recording online service which allows the user to chain hundreds of recordings.
There followed an ever-expanding corpus of texts on poetics in the later fifteenth century and throughout the sixteenth, a phenomenon that began in Italy and spread to Spain, England, and France.
Stavrakakis has also been twice elected in the executive board of the Hellenic Political Science Association, where he has served as Vice-President.
Since the 1980s his work in CDA focused especially on the study of the discursive reproduction of racism by what he calls the 'symbolic elites' (politicians, journalists, scholars, writers), the study of news in the press, and on the theories of ideology, context and knowledge.
Firth is noted for drawing attention to the context-dependent nature of meaning with his notion of 'context of situation', and his work on collocational meaning is widely acknowledged in the field of distributional semantics.
Selected papers from the Sixth International Conference on Teaching and Language Corpora (TaLC 6), Edited by Encarnación Hidalgo, Luis Quereda and Juan Santana.
For example, many of the remaining undeciphered Mayan glyphs are hapax legomena, and Biblical (particularly Hebrew; see § Hebrew) hapax legomena sometimes pose problems in translation.
**Shows interest in H **Claims common ground with H **Seeks agreement **Gives sympathy Negative redressive action *S satisfies H's desires to be unimpeded—the want that is directly challenged by the face-threatening act.
It is published by Routledge on behalf of the Society for Text and Discourse, of which it is the official journal.
Positioning Speakers can use stance to define their relation to an object without having to assign it value.
The term metafunction originates in systemic functional linguistics and is considered to be a property of all languages.
In Book III Plato defines poetry as a type of narrative which takes one of three forms: the "simple," the "imitative" (mimetic), or any mix of the two.
By adopting the theatrical metaphor of scène d’énonciation, Maingueneau endeavors to enter discourse “from the inside.” • Ethos: he contributed to introducing the question of ethos into the field of discourse analysis.
In spring 2021, Lingua Libre was offline due to a fire in Strasbourg, but no audio recordings were lost.
A thematic equative allows for all possible parts of a clause to be shifted to the start, to be the theme, so that the message can be structured in whatever way the speaker or writer wants.
Systemic errors like the confusion of s and f in pre-19th century texts (due to the use of ſ, the long s, which is similar in appearance to f) can cause systemic bias.
Linking up contrastive and learner corpus research., Edited by Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Szilvia Papp and María Belén Díez-Bedmar.
collections of texts in machine-readable form, is the most accessible way to study both transcribed spoken language and various genres of written texts for modern scholars, including both "descriptive and more theoretically-minded linguists".
The Global Language Monitor (GLM) is a company based in Austin, Texas, that analyzes trends in the English language.
Popularization Film and television According to Kathryn Laity, early use of the phrase may have stemmed from its appearance in the 1964 Walt Disney Pictures film Mary Poppins.
Channel and signal of a communication event and register of communication together control discourse and therefore, determine the degree of social inclusion and social exclusion and, by extension, the relative efficiency of that communication event.
Child advocacy "Think of the children" has been used in its literal sense to advocate for the rights of children.
The alignment of MDA to the practice perspective, and the need for establishing mediational means partly via a thematic analysis, ensures linkages back to the literature.
Writing on Language Log, the linguist Ben Zimmer accused it of "hoodwink[ing] unsuspecting journalists on a range of pseudoscientific claims".
The Archaeology of Knowledge (French: L’archéologie du savoir) by Michel Foucault is a 1969 treatise about the methodology and historiography of the systems of thought (epistemes) and of knowledge (discursive formations).
Fawcett (born 1937) is a British linguist known as the main exponent of the Cardiff grammar in systemic functional linguistics.
The speaker of such a sentence may intend to exhibit a friendly attitude, but a listener might become irritated if they suppose the speaker's intention is snobbishly to impress them.
The analysis then deals with the organized dispersion of statements, discursive formations, and Foucault reiterates that the outlined archaeology of knowledge is one possible method of historical analysis.
Katz, Steven B., "GUEST EDITORIAL: A RESPONSE TO PATRICK MOORE'S "QUESTIONING THE MOTIVES OF TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION AND RHETORIC: STEVEN KATZ'S 'ETHIC OF EXPEDIENCY'"." Journal of Technical Writing & Communication, 2006, Vol.
The teaching hospital, la clinique, was established upon the new medical praxis of verifiable observation, which is scientifically more accurate than the old medical praxis based upon religious interpretations of disease.
Socially situated writing Second, in addition to the expansion of the genre, textual analysis has moved contrastive rhetoric to emphasize the social situation of writing.
Text corpora (singular: text corpus) are large and structured sets of texts, which have been systematically collected.
In Systemic Functional Linguistics (SFL), appraisal refers to the ways that writers or speakers express approval or disapproval for things, people, behaviour or ideas.
The term of semantic argument was introduced by Teresa Hołówka in 1990, and later developed by Jakub Prus and other logicians.
Under this perspective, data are treated as tools to achieve some form of justice rather than as a neutral resource.
For this reason, Kenner claims, Joyce seems to use a much less "objective" narrator than it seems at first glance.
In ethics, "contextualist" views are often closely associated with situational ethics, or with moral relativism.
Words can insinuate an action or an emotion in the listener, whether or not it was the speaker's intention.
The experiential function refers to the grammatical resources involved in construing the flux of experience through the unit of the clause.
The study of communicative distance involves looking at a text's cohesion—that is, how it hangs together, as well as any abstract language it uses.
Contextualism, also known as epistemic contextualism, is a family of views in philosophy which emphasize the context in which an action, utterance, or expression occurs.
Other levels of linguistic structured analysis are possible, including annotations for morphology, semantics and pragmatics.
For example: After eating sevenTEEN, PICKLES did not scare him After eating SEVENteen PICKLES, he was afraid Contrastive stress is another everyday English example of phrasal prosody that helps us determine what parts of the sentence are important.
Examples of perlocutionary acts include persuading, convincing, scaring, enlightening, inspiring, or otherwise affecting the interlocutor.
This one, in his masterful collection of stories El Llano en llamas, and Asturias, in Hombres de maíz, consciously or not, adapted the Joycean "Uncle Charles Principle", making their narrators transfigure linguistically in the peasant, the indigenous or in the indigenism they tried to portray.
Some fiction genres are highlighted separately: children’s literature, folklore, dramatic works, and scripts.
Although originally limited to the academic discourses of post-modernism and post-structuralism, the medical gaze term is used in graduate medicine and social work.
HMMs underlie the functioning of stochastic taggers and are used in various algorithms one of the most widely used being the bi-directional inference algorithm.
As an utterance, a locutionary act is considered a performative, in which both the audience and the speaker must trust certain conditions about the speech act.
Keys to determining whether a discourse is open or closed include access to information, equity of access, open access, quality of discourse and mechanisms and modalities of discourse control: overt, covert, implicit and incidental.
Multimodality: Foundations, research and analysis – A problem-oriented introduction (with Janina Wildfeuer and Tuomo Hiippala; de Gruyter, 2017).
He studied political science at Panteion University (Athens) and discourse analysis at Essex University.
"To Execute Capital Punishment: The Mortification and Scapegoating of Illinois Governor George Ryan".
The Rhetoric of Hitler's "Battle" is an influential essay written by Kenneth Burke in 1939 which offered a rhetorical analysis of Adolf Hitler's rise to power in Germany.
It creates, collects and distributes speech and text databases, lexicons, and other resources for linguistics research and development purposes.
Simplification is a particularly effective rhetorical device to deal with an uncritical population by permitting rhetoricians to rise to power through their persuasive abilities and frequently outmaneuvering those with expert knowledge who do not communicate well.
For example, in the Spanish translation of A Portrait, by Damaso Alonso, this expressive joycean nuance is lost, since Alonso proposed a simple "se encaminaba a" ("headed to") by "repaired".
Chilton is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Linguistics and English Language at the University of Lancaster.
So is an English word that, apart from its other uses, has become increasingly popular in recent years as a coordinating conjunctive opening word in a sentence.
It was the first monograph that explicitly took an ethnography of speaking perspective to the whole range of verbal practices among a group of people.
In this example, each speaker takes a stance with the words that they say, but only Speaker A explicitly demonstrates their stance.
For instance, an evidentialist account of knowledge can be an instance of contextualism if it's held that strength of justification is a contextually varying matter.
Ōno's lexical law, or simply Ōno's law, is a statistical law for the varying rate that four word classes that appear in the lexicon of classical Japanese literary works.
On this basis, the analysis of the emergence, diffusion and transformation of new words, and the publication of dictionaries of neologisms have been made possible.
Taylor explain, "Ethnography of communication conceptualizes communication as a continuous flow of information, rather than as a segmented exchange of messages." According to Deborah Cameron, EOC can be thought of as the application of ethnographic methods to the communication patterns of a group.
Many linguistic anthropologists have come to understand that language and culture are not separate entities, but are in fact processes that work hand in hand.
He founded five international journals: Poetics, Text (now called Text & Talk), Discourse & Society, Discourse Studies, Discourse & Communication, of which he still edits the last three.
a doctor has the epistemic authority to answer medical questions), while deontic stance is the expression of relative strength compared to another interactant to make decisions, such as requesting or requiring that someone performs a certain task.
Discourse Processes is a bimonthly peer-reviewed multidisciplinary academic journal covering the study of discourse from the perspective of sociology, psychology, and other disciplines.
Since its inception the area of study has had a significant impact on the exploration of intercultural discourse structures that extend beyond the target language's native forms of discourse organization.
History of Poetics Western Poetics Generally speaking, poetics in the Western tradition emerged out of Ancient Greece.
Guidelines for doing research with data from Google Ngram have been proposed that try to address some of the issues discussed above.
He credits Luo for giving him a diachronic perspective and insights into a non-Indo-European language family.
Discourse analysis There is more than one type of discourse analysis, and the definition of "discourse" shifts slightly between types.
If the surplus is actively entered into the other's world, or the view from outside oneself is likewise engaged, the potential for new understanding comes into existence.
So, for example, if you've just seen a noun followed by a verb, the next item may be very likely a preposition, article, or noun, but much less likely another verb.
See also Lexical Markup Framework Machine-readable dictionary Synonym Ring Taxonomy References External links Official website "Malayalam WordNet".
DARPA would propose specific quantifiable and testable score targets on benchmarks, and teams being funded would attempt to reach the score targets.
This convinced many in the field that part-of-speech tagging could usefully be separated from the other levels of processing; this, in turn, simplified the theory and practice of computerized language analysis and encouraged researchers to find ways to separate other pieces as well.
Obviously, the semantic modification is being introduced through persuasive definition in definition premise.
In 2019 it came to light that Canadian governments of the 21st century have been relative lightweights in the Alliance.
In the construct of constitutional monarchy and responsible government, the advice tendered is typically binding, meaning the monarch reigns but does not rule, with the Cabinet ruling "in trust" for the monarch.
Association of Parents, Justice Jean Beetz found that section 17 was so similar to section 133 of the Constitution Act, 1867 (section 17 was based on section 133) that section 17 would not represent any change in regard to rights that had belonged under section 133.
The position is a Governor in Council appointment made on the advice of the prime minister of Canada.
Regarding housing, nearly all sponsors reported having sufficient capacity in their homes to accommodate their partners.
However, the Superintendent's term can be renewed by the Governor in Council following those five years.
The person who is unable to pay his obligation is considered to be an insolvent person under the BIA.
Canada has been a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) since its inception in 1949.
Background John Hogan became Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador after winning the leadership election following the resignation of Andrew Furey.
The Assistant Deputy Attorney General may appoint a lawyer not employed by the Ministry of Attorney General as a special prosecutor, if he or she "considers it is in the public interest".
From 1980 to 1984 there was no cabinet title but under the authority of the minister of supply and services before reappearing in 1984.
Another relevant treaty is the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (1990), which, although not ratified by Canada, sets international standards on the protection of the rights of migrant workers and the importance of family reunification.
any person, other than an officer, who is enrolled in, or who pursuant to law is attached or seconded otherwise than as an officer to, the Canadian Forces..." Thus, an NCM is any member who is not a commissioned officer or officer cadet.
Following a fellowship in traumatology, in Basel, Switzerland, Oxford, and Los Angeles, he began practice at the Vancouver General Hospital.
These general principles and themes, insofar as they are relevant to the instant appeals, may be summarized as follows: "Canadian maritime law" as defined in s.
Bennett Receiver General of Canada 29 June 1926 – 25 September 1926: The Minister of Finance (Ex officio) 29 June 1926 – 13 July 1926: Sir Henry Lumley Drayton (acting) 13 July 1926 – 25 September 1926: R.
As of November 2020, Kingsley serves as the chairman of the Executive Advisory Committee for Dominion Voting Systems.
The Superintendent of Bankruptcy is a Canadian government official who heads the Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy, a regulatory agency operating under the Ministry of Innovation, Science and Economic Development, and exercices independent statutory and quasi‑judicial powers.
He was educated at the Académie De La Salle and went on to earn a BCom and a master's degree in Hospital Administration from the University of Ottawa.
Donahue, Alicia Elliott, Samra Habib, Catherine Hernandez, Shawn Hitchins, Ben Lewis, Téa Mutonji, Owen Pallett, Casey Plett, Heath V.
The office was established upon Confederation (1 July 1867) by Order-in-Council, and was given statutory basis later that year on December 21, through Statute 31 Victoria, c.
The EIA is owned by Transport Canada, leased by Edmonton Airports, and part of the National Airports System.
Mahon President of Athabasca University: Frits Pannekoek President of Mount Royal University: David Docherty President of Grant MacEwan University: David W.
The authority is governed by a 15-member board of directors appointed to represent the various municipalities and the Government of Canada (2 members).
used the Regime to manufacture and export two shipments of a patented antiretroviral medication to Rwanda.
The United Nations notes that funding under these two programs supported many initiatives, with those most likely to be supported by the Canada Fund for Africa being $220 million on polio and HIV, and $150 million on humanitarian food aid and water resources.
Instead, Borden learned of the creation of the Acting Sub-Militia Council via the press and in response Borden recalled Hughes back to Canada.
These municipalities include the cities of Edmonton (six members), Leduc (one member), Leduc County (one member), Parkland County (one member), Strathcona County (one member) and Sturgeon County (one member).
Dyane Adam, (born 1953 in Casselman, Ontario) was the Canadian Official Languages Commissioner from 1999 to 2006.
Many times, our nations have been involved in litigation that ends up at the Supreme Court." == References ==
It has no legal standing but is used to dictate ceremonial protocol at events of a provincial nature.
Pre-Confederation colonies of Lower Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Upper Canada and the Province of Canada each had this post.
The North Atlantic triangle is a theoretical construct for studying the history of Canadian foreign policy.
In 2020, the child poverty rate was 3% for those living in couple families, compared with 16.9% for those in female lone-parent families.
At a later date, the Court releases its opinion on the reference, in the form of a detailed written judgment.
The traditional languages of the people are Halq'eméylem, hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓, and Hul’q’umi’num.’ Yeqwyeqwí:ws is the proper Halq’eméylem spelling of Yakweakwioose.
Membership changes House of Commons Senate Party standings Members of the House of Commons Members of the Senate See also 2025 Speech from the Throne Official Opposition Shadow Cabinet of the 45th Parliament of Canada Women in the 45th Canadian Parliament Notes == References ==
Barlow chairs the board of Washington-based Food & Water Watch, serves on the Board of Advisors to the Global Alliance on the Rights of Nature, was a founding member of the San Francisco–based International Forum on Globalization, and was a Councillor with the Hamburg-based World Future Council.
Of the non-mandatory affiliates, CKWS-DT Kingston and CHEX-DT Peterborough, Ontario converted in 2013, while CFTK-TV Terrace and CJDC-TV Dawson Creek, British Columbia has yet to convert; these stations has since changed its affiliations to other networks.
December 11 – Conservative MP Michael Ma for Markham—Unionville crosses the floor to the Liberal Party.
The session was opened personally by Charles III, King of Canada, on May 27, 2025, during his first royal visit to Canada as King.
The Department of National Defence determined the facilities did not meet their needs but Corrections Canada, the Canada Revenue Agency and the Canada Border Services Agency were indicated as possible future tenants.
The conference delegates discussed the Arctic Ocean, climate change, the protection of the marine environment, maritime safety, and division of emergency responsibilities if new shipping routes are opened.
The position was first introduced in 1967 to help younger politicians gain experience for future ministerial roles.
In 2006, the Harper government announced several enhanced border security measures, including a plan to equip security personnel with weapons in order to be able to act effectively against suspects, including those carrying firearms, near the border (on either side).
This differs from the United States, where the executive branch is referred to as an administration and the federal government encompasses executive, legislative, and judicial powers, similar to the Canadian Crown.
Skowkale First Nation or Skowkale Band (Halkomelem: Sqʼewqéyl) is a band government of the Sto:lo people located in the Upper Fraser Valley region, near Sardis, part of Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada.
Measurement Canada (French: Mesures Canada) is a special operating agency of the Government of Canada's Innovation, Science and Economic Development portfolio, in the Small Business, Tourism and Marketplace Services sector.
On April 15, 2013, the Non-Public Property Board approved a second name change for the organization from CFPFSS to Canadian Forces Morale and Welfare Services.
History Prior to Unification of the Canadian Forces, virtually all Non-Public Property (NPP) activities were controlled and managed at the local level.
my experience has been that almost no one in the world will die this year because of the cost or the lack of availability of AIDS medicine.
When Canada became a Dominion in 1867, however, a separate Canadian Privy Council was established to advise the Canadian governor general on the exercise of the Crown prerogative in Canada, although constitutionally the viceroy remained an agent of the British government at Whitehall.
Broadbent had called for a resolution raising concern "for the more than one million Canadian children living in poverty." By 2000, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Finland had almost abolished child poverty.
Prior to the Committee's establishment, war financing was the responsibility of the Department of Finance.
The court addressed whether a requirement that all licensed drivers be photographed unconstitutionally violated the Hutterites' right to freedom of religion.
Prime Minister One of the main duties of the Crown is to ensure that a democratic government is always in place, which includes the appointment of a prime minister, who heads the Cabinet and directs the activities of the government.
It was formed after the 7th Canadian Parliament was dissolved, and lost the 8th Canadian federal election, so it never faced a parliament.
In June 2018, the Supreme Court of Canada found that the tribunal's determination that the Indian Act did not violate the Canadian Human Rights Act was reasonable due to judicial deference.
The completion of a new headquarters building on Ogilvie Road led the CSE to vacate the building by 2016.
At the federal level, the Australian constitution provides only for the appointment of "ministers of state".
It governed Canada from 10 October 1911 to 12 October 1917, including only the 12th Canadian Parliament.
2023 shuffle After a difficult parliamentary term, Trudeau announced the third major re-shuffle of his ministry and the first re-shuffle since the 2021 election, with the exception of ministers Tassi and Jaczek swapping roles in 2022.
In response to claims of such a bias at the similar Office of International Religious Freedom in the United States, Harper stated that Canada is "a very different country".
The intelligence commissioner heads the Office of the Intelligence Commissioner of Canada (French: Bureau du commissaire au renseignement), the agency which supports the work of the commissioner.
In September 2006, after her term had been extended by several months, it was announced that Graham Fraser would replace her.
While the speaker is an officer of the Senate, the speaker as a senator also remains a representative of the province or territory from which they were appointed.
As the King's representative, the governor general attends Parliament to deliver the speech from the throne, although this can and has been done by the sovereign themselves or another representative.
It was the official march of the Royal Canadian Air Force until the unification of the Canadian Armed Forces in 1968.
In British Columbia, appointments of special prosecutors are governed by Section 7 "Special prosecutors" of the Crown Counsel Act, Chapter 87.
The Fund was established by the Canada Fund for Africa Act in 2002 to fulfill Canada's obligations under the New Africa Initiative created be the Organization of African Unity.
CBC Arts (French: Radio-Canada Arts) is the division of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that creates and curates written articles, short documentaries, non-fiction series and interactive projects that represent the excellence of Canada's diverse artistic communities.
Since the Letters Patent, 1947, were signed by King George VI, the governor general of Canada—presently Mary Simon—executes most of the duties of the sovereign, including in their role as commander-in-chief.
The Conservative government's move was seen by many as motivated by a desire to destroy the Liberal party and cripple all other parties, not by concern over taxpayer dollars.
Overview Canada's federal political parties receive the most significant portion of public funding at election times that is based on what they have spent through electoral expense reimbursements.
In 2015, the federal rural riding of Churchill—Keewatinook Aski in Manitoba—which is home to many First Nations—had the highest child poverty rate in Canada in 2015 with about 64.2% living in poverty, according to the a Campaign2000 2018 riding-by- riding analysis.
"Finland, Sweden, Iceland left out: The Kingdom of Denmark stands by its decision to invite only five of the eight Arctic nations to an international meeting next week in Ilulissat, Greenland".
Fletcher Commanding Officer, HMCS Nonsuch Commanding Officer, 1 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 1 Area Support Group Commanding Officer, 41 Canadian Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 4 Wing Sources Government of Alberta: Order of Precedence == References ==
Reports Special Report on Foreign Interference in Canada's Democratic Processes and Institutions In 2024 NSCIOP released a report on foreign interference in Canada's elections and society from September 2018 to 2024.
Edmonton Airports, officially the Edmonton Regional Airports Authority, is an airport authority responsible for the management and operation of two airports in the Edmonton area.
Hughes after refusing to compromise subsequently berated Borden in a letter, after which point Hughes was forced to resign his ministerial post.
In 1990, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada for "his ability to work with political parties, candidates, the media and the general public helped to foster the atmosphere of confidence now associated with the entire Canadian electoral system".
CBC Arts has received considerable acclaim, winning multiple Canadian Screen Awards including for best talk show (The Filmmakers), non-fiction webseries (Canada's a Drag) and interactive production (Super Queeroes and The 2010s: The Decade Canadian Artists Stopped Saying Sorry).
Some other public sector workers, such as police officers and firefighters, had been declared exempt on the grounds that they were essential workers.
The reason given for the appointments of Emerson and Fortier was that the Conservatives were completely shut out of the three most populous cities in Canada – Montreal, Toronto, and Vancouver.
The need for legal uniformity is particularly pressing in the area of tortious liability for collisions and other accidents that occur in the course of navigation...
Info Source is a Government of Canada agency repository of information about or collected by the Canadian government.
The Group is currently chaired by Member of Parliament Ali Ehsassi and the vice-chairs are as follows: Garnett Genuis, MP (Conservative); Ruby Sahota, MP (Liberal); and Cheryl Hardcastle, MP (NDP).
List of Members of the Legislative Assembly References External links Election Results and Dates 1876 - 1905 from Saskatchewan Archives
Also, the Ontario Parole Board can also authorize the re-committal of parolees to custody, lift one's parole suspension, or cancel a temporary absence it has granted.
First proposed by the historian John Bartlet Brebner, it seeks to explain the importance of United Kingdom–United States relations to Canada's security, and even survival, during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
Analogues In the British Army, Royal Marines and Royal Air Force (and in the armies and air forces of many other Commonwealth countries), the equivalent term is "other rank" (OR); in the Royal Navy and other Commonwealth navies, the term is usually "rating" or "rate".
She instead decided to resign altogether from his Cabinet, saying that "to be effective, a Minister must speak on behalf of the Prime Minister and with his full confidence.
On February 23, 1990 the position was merged into that of Minister of Industry, Science and Technology.
It was inspired by the success of a similar parliamentary group in the United Kingdom and grew out of the Save Darfur Coalition initiated in 2006.
The Minister of Science and Sport was a position in the Canadian government occupied by Kirsty Duncan from July 19, 2018, to November 21, 2019.
Meanwhile, President Hu Jintao criticized Canada for making the Dalai Lama an honorary citizen and to make several meetings with him.
Shapiro was also criticized by former NDP leader Ed Broadbent for "extraordinarily serious credibility problems".
In an official white paper on China's Arctic Policy from 2018, China claimed to be a "Near-Arctic State", and thus has clear "economic interests" and maritime claims, stating that there is an incentive to build a so-called 'Polar Silk Road'.
Fundamental Freedoms: The Charter of Rights and Freedoms Archived 2012-08-09 at the Wayback Machine - Charter of Rights website with video, audio and the Charter in over 20 languages
Blue Covenant: The Global Water Crisis and the Fight for the Right to Water – McClelland & Stewart, Toronto (October 16, 2007) ISBN 978-0-7710-1072-9.
A bankrupt must also remit to the trustee the amount of his income that is determined to be surplus to his needs, for the benefit of the estate.
Period applicable until discharge The bankrupt may apply to court at any time for discharge from bankruptcy (provided he has fulfilled his duties), and the court may grant it, either fully or conditionally.
The speaker of the Senate holds no similar role, as the Senate's Standing Committee on Internal Economy, Budgets, and Administration is chaired by another senator.
Requests made under the Access to Information Act and the Privacy Act must be sent to the Access to Information and Privacy Coordinator at the institution which holds the information.
The group has recently been involved with the W2I Project run by the Montreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies.
A special operating agency (SOA) is a designation given to a government organization within a department or agency of the Government of Canada, or a provincial government, that has some management flexibility, independence, and separate accountability.
Humanist Canada and the Centre for Inquiry Canada (CFIC) noted that no secular organizations were consulted about the creation of the office, nor were they invited to the official announcement of the new ambassador.
The Federal Court can also issue and enforce decisions made by the tribunal if violations continue and imprison an offender for contempt of court if a decision continues to be disregarded.
In 1971, 6 former municipalities had their own parks & recreation boards or recreation commissions: East Kildonan, Fort Garry, St.
Given the small size of Canada's military, most contributions to NATO were political but, during NATO's 1999 Kosovo War, Canadian CF-18 jets were involved in the bombing of Yugoslavia.
LeBel blamed the COVID-19 pandemic for altering the government's timeline and could not commit to providing an alternate date for the referendum, effectively ending discussions about electoral reform in Quebec.
It governed Canada from 16 June 1891 to 24 November 1892, including only a year and a half in the middle of the 7th Canadian Parliament.
Yakweakwioose First Nation or Yakweakwioose Band (Halkomelem: Yeqwyeqwí꞉ws) is a band government of the Sto:lo people located in the Upper Fraser Valley region at Sardis, near Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada.
After she had led a campaign to preserve bilingualism at York University and Montfort Hospital, then-Prime Minister Jean Chrétien appointed her Official Languages Commissioner.
Chiefs of the Six Nations of the Grand River expressed to Queen Elizabeth II their concerns about Chief Justice Richard Wagner serving as administrator after Julie Payette resigned from the office of governor general in January 2021.
The commissioner is accountable to the Parliament of Canada through the prime minister, who receives an annual report from the commissioner and tables it in the House of Commons.
"Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergey Lavrov Attends the Arctic Ocean Conference, Ilulissat" (Press release).
CANALERT was one of the names for the Government of Canada's series of initiatives between 2003–2009 to develop an all-channel national public alerting system.
Thomas University and Université de Moncton Presidents of the universities in New Brunswick in the same order of precedence as the Chancellors External links Table of Precedence for New Brunswick
Guyana - Agro-processing, Forestry and Wood Products, Other Manufacturing and Tourism Jamaica - Tourism, Agriculture and Agro-Industry.
Smaller openings, called desk openings, do not require the removal of senators' desks, as guests are limited to the justices of the supreme court, invitees of the governor general and prime minister, and the deans of the diplomatic corps.
This triangle was invisible to Americans or Britons, for whom Canada was a side issue at best, but it was vital to Canada.
See also Emergency Public Warning System Alert Ready References External links Industry Canada's public alerting website http://alerts.pelmorex.com/en/ Archived 2011-06-02 at the Wayback Machine
Authority The OPB can grant, deny, revoke, and suspend parole under the Ministry of Correctional Services Act.
Trudeau carried out four major cabinet shuffles: one in 2018, one in 2021, one in 2023, and another in 2024.
In the absence or incapacity of the chief justice, the role of administrator falls on the senior puisne justice of the Supreme Court.
The Gill Deacon Show was cancelled after just seven months, and replaced with another talk show, Steven and Chris from 2008 to 2015 (Steven and Chris is also shown on the Live Well Network in the United States); Living was cancelled in August 2009.
Previously its Vice-Chairperson, Jennifer Khurana was the Tribunal's acting Chairperson from September 2, 2021 until March 24, 2022.
The Regime was established in 2004 by An Act to amend the Patent Act and the Food and Drugs Act, also known as the "Jean Chrétien Pledge to Africa Act", along with other regulations, in a bill introduced as C-9 in the third session of the 37th Canadian Parliament.
The Office of Religious Freedom was an agency of Global Affairs Canada that was established by the Government of Canada on 19 February 2013 to monitor religious persecution and protect freedom of religion internationally.
The viceroy will inspect the guard of honour in front of the legislature before entering the building via the ceremonial entrance.
The act purports to limit parliamentary privilege, however section 12 of the statute, which imposed this restriction, was struck down by the Ontario Superior Court for being unconstitutional in 2022.
Grand Chief Vernon Watchmaker and Chief Germaine Anderson stated, "the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada as a 'stand in' does not give us comfort.
However, since elections are monitored and organized by an independent provincial and territorial election commission, a province may legally change its electoral system should its parliament wish to do so.
Saskatchewan was the only jurisdiction to delay a general election by more than a year, due to World War II, but held an election in 1944, one week more than six years after the previous vote.
The Keeping Canada’s Economy & Jobs Growing Act, introduced in October 2011, triggered a phase-out of the per-vote subsidy from 2012-2015.
As such, the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act contemplates that inquiries and investigations “may be made or caused to be made” by persons the Superintendent appoints, and that those appointees have access to relevant books and electronic data.
Hughes vigorously opposed the creation of the new ministry and when it became clear the new ministry would be created Hughes sought to have Max Aitken appointed to the new post instead of Perley.
2026 January 9 – Liberal MP Chrystia Freeland for University—Rosedale resigns her seat to accept the post of an economic advisor for the Ukrainian government.
The cost of refurbishing the buildings to meet new standards, or Workplace 2.0, will cost about $400 million.
"The Harper government's messaging in the build-up to the Libyan Intervention: was Canada different than its NATO allies?".
In November 2011, he observed the elections in Saint Lucia, as part of a Commonwealth assessment team constituted by the Commonwealth secretary-general.
In the United States Army, Air Force and Marines, the equivalent term is "enlisted rank." In the United States Navy, the proper term is "rate" only; "rating" refers to a sailor's military occupational specialty.
Of even more serious concern were the repeated war scares between Britain and the northern, Union government in the American Civil War, which threatened Canada with another invasion over the Trent Affair, the Alabama Incident, and so on.
Monnin (1997) Deborah McCawley, (1997) Donald Little, (1998) Morris Kaufman (1998; supernumerary since 2010) Laurie Allen, (1998) Douglas Yard, (1998) Donald Bryk, (1999) Frank Aquila (2000) Robert B.
a tribunal has reached a final decision in respect to the matter that is before it in accordance with its enabling statute, that decision cannot be revisited because the tribunal has changed its mind, made an error within jurisdiction or because there has been a change of circumstances.
Subsequently, the Ford government announced that it would not appeal the case to the Supreme Court of Canada, would repeal the law, and introduce regulations in the meantime so non-unionized government workers could benefit as well.
The plaintiffs pointed out the constitutional challenge had been brought before the courts 3 years earlier.
The Pacific Pilotage Authority (French: Administration de pilotage du Pacifique) is a Crown corporation of the Government of Canada that is responsible for pilotage through coastal waters in British Columbia, including the Fraser River.
These include providing confidential advice to public office holders and elected members of Parliament about how to comply with the act and the members' code.
Established in 1990, following the Regional Airports Authorities Act passed by the Legislative Assembly of Alberta, It is a non-profit organisation and, as per the act, has no shareholders and does not pay dividends.
The Office of Religious Freedom was officially opened on 19 February 2013 and Harper announced that Andrew P.
Nova Scotia (1993), the stated application of section 17 is to "Parliament." This wording is an anomaly because technically Parliament is just an institution that enacts statutes.
The Manitoba order of precedence is a nominal and symbolic hierarchy of important positions within the province of Manitoba.
A non-commissioned member (NCM), in the Canadian Armed Forces, is defined in the Queen's Regulations and Orders as: "...
The following is a list of state and official visits made by Canada since the country's Confederation in 1867.
Parliamentary secretaries are formally ministers of state, however they are not responsible for any portfolios and act under the direction of a more senior minister.
List of speakers of the Senate Key: Hays, Housakos, and Furey are the only current living former speakers of the Senate.
It was established by the Pilotage Act in 1972 as a result of recommendations made by the Royal Commission on Pilotage in Canada.
On July 3, 2020, the commissioner announced an investigation into Justin Trudeau and the government's decision to have WE Charity administer the summer student grant program.
List of ministers By minister Note: This is in Order of Precedence, which is established by the chronological order of appointment to the Queen's Privy Council for Canada, then in order of election or appointment to parliament for ministers who joined the Privy Council on the same day.
As all executive power is legally reposed in the Crown, the role of commander-in-chief is the only constitutional means by which decisions are made over the deployment and disposition of the Canadian Armed Forces.
Since 2024, Dominic LeBlanc holds the border security portfolio without it being an official ministry.
Atkinson Police and military Commanding Officer, "K" Division, Royal Canadian Mounted Police: Curtis Zablocki Commander, 3rd Canadian Division: Brigadier-General W.H.
These prolonged separations are not only a bureaucratic problem but also have profound emotional and security implications for the family members left behind, often in risk situations.
Three justices dissented and would have not required the Hutterites to be photographed to be licensed.
She is a founding member and former board chair of The Council of Canadians, a citizens' advocacy organization with members and chapters across Canada.
If a court is permitted to continually revisit or reconsider final orders simply because it has changed its mind or wishes to continue exercising jurisdiction over a matter, there would never be finality to a proceeding, or, as G.
Cameron (2011) Shane Perlmutter (2011) Herbert Rempel (2011) Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly (Obby Khan, ) Archbishop of St.
A decision at this level would mean the outcome would be binding in all provinces and territories across the country.
This underscores an unequal allocation of resources within Immigration Canada, primarily affecting the family reunification processes of parents and grandparents.
Canada's foreign relations with NATO member states See also Foreign relations of Canada Foreign relations of NATO References Further reading Bercuson, David J.
Some assets are protected through bankruptcy exemptions that vary depending on which province or territory the person lives in.
Right to appeal The existence and scope of a right of appeal has often been made the focus of analytical attention in applying the functus officio doctrine.
Specific Public Morale and Welfare programs were delivered through the NPP organization administered by CFPSA, with the cost of implementation reimbursed by the Public to NPP.
Since the events of September 11, 2001, there has been a substantial expansion in the breadth and intensity of Canada's counter-terrorism efforts.
The communication between couples, often reduced to video chats or text messages filled with emoticons to express their love and longing, cannot replace the intimacy and emotional support of being physically together.
The Department of Regional Industrial Expansion (DRIE) was created when Industry, Trade and Commerce was combined with the Department of Regional Economic Expansion (DREE).
Functus officio refers to an officer or agency whose mandate has expired, due to either the arrival of an expiry date or an agency having accomplished the purpose for which it was created.
The Minister of Public Works was a position in the Cabinet of Canada who oversaw the public works portfolio of the federal government.
Hughes while overseas in England responded by establishing an Acting Sub-Militia Council which would provide him greater latitude outside of parliamentary overview.
Schools on reserves lack resources Macdonald and Wilson said that all levels of government were failing to provide Indigenous children with assistance and resources.
Overview The division specialized engineering and construction services to the City of Toronto's internal client divisions such as Toronto Water, Transportation Services and Solid Waste Management Services.
Summary The government of Ontario spent a budget of around CA$163.4 billion in the year 2019, with around CA$72 billion of that being used for salaries and worker compensation.
On 29 October 1997, the City of Winnipeg Act was again amended, providing for a 4-term of office for Mayors and City Councillors, as well as replacing the Board of Commissioners with a chief administrative officer model.
In Canada, a special prosecutor is a lawyer appointed in certain circumstances to ensure the fairness of a prosecution.
Role Certain activities carried out by CSIS and the CSE must be authorized by their ministers, the Minister of Public Safety and Minister of National Defence, respectively.
She was replaced by Dominic LeBlanc, who would temporarily retain his role as Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs, Infrastructure and Communities.
On November 30, 2010, the CBC's senior director of regulatory affairs issued a letter to the CRTC regarding CBC's plans for transitioning to digital.
While political contributions can only be made by Canadian citizens, there is no age restriction in place, which allows political contributions to be made in the name of children to bypass contribution limits.
The Trade Controls Bureau (TCB) authorizes, under the discretion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the import and export of goods restricted by quotas and/or tariffs.
Government records indicate that one million dollars of the fund was spent on public-private ventures for providing risk capital.
On top of this, however, an additional metropolitan level of government existed as well, holding responsibility for planning major roads, major parks, and major water and sewer systems.
Effective April 21, 2008, the Non-Public Property Board approved a name change for the organization from the Canadian Forces Personnel Support Agency (CFPSA) to the Canadian Forces Personnel and Family Support Services (CFPFSS).
Measurement Canada approves, inspects, and certifies measurement instruments, and investigates and resolves complaints regarding inaccurate measurement.
New Zealand The position titled Parliamentary Under-Secretary is established by the Constitution Act 1986.
The appointment of Bill Blair as the new Minister of Border Security and Organized Crime Reduction was praised by Opposition Immigration Critic Michelle Rempel, in response to an increase of illegal crossings of the Canada–United States border.
The Caribbean Regional Human Resource Development Program for Economic Competitiveness known as (CPEC) for short is a programme funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
Laws are formed by the passage of bills through Parliament, which are either sponsored by the government or individual members of Parliament.
The systems used included Block Voting, Single transferable voting, Limited voting and a system where each seat was filled through a separate contest.
In 2011, Trans Link Systems considered suing Webwereld because they sold RFID writers that could be used for free traveling in Dutch public transport.
In 2021, TechTarget announced the acquisition of Xtelligent Healthcare Media, a marketing services, media, and data company.
Founded in October 2005, and based in New York, ITerating was created by CEO Nicolas Vandenberghe, who saw that there was an industry need for a comprehensive resource to help evaluate software solutions.
Beyond continuous publication of the website, it is known for its overclocking championships and other contests.
The platform was founded with the aim to solve legal and ethical issues surrounding sampling and music clearances.
Karma points are calculated as the number of upvotes a given user's content has received minus the number of downvotes.
By marking up content in semantic (X)HTML, front-end developers make a site's content more available to search engines, more accessible to people with disabilities, and more available to the world beyond the desktop (e.g.
Format Application installers designed for use with the PortableApps.com menu follow the convention of using filenames ending in a paf.exe extension, include HTML documentation, and store data in the Data directory.
Journalists Brenno de Winter References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2017-03-01)
Its content includes searchable databases for looking up Windows start-up programs and uninstall entries, as well as a free Internet forum to receive computer help.
M3, together with tech magazines "Computer Sweden", "PC för alla" and "MacWorld", were owned by International Data Group until 2025 when they were sold to private equity firm Regent LP.
The first section, titled "zahabrennye" (in Russian, "захабренные"), broadcasts entries that have received high approval from users of the website.
History Webwereld was founded in 1995 by Oscar Kneppers, who got the idea after visiting Silicon Valley in the summer of that year.
See also Acid1 Acid2 Acid3 References External links Official website Third-party mirror html5test.co (doesn't support all features of the original) Third-party mirror html5test.opensuse.org
A few examples of X-Software include X-Firefox (counterpart to Mozilla Firefox), X-Thunderbird (Mozilla Thunderbird), X-Gimp (GIMP), and others.
Geekologie was updated multiple times a day with articles on gadgets, video games, consumer electronics and popular culture related to games and movies.
In June 2005, the Web Standards Project decided that an anti-Internet Explorer campaign did not fit with their mission, and they handed the site over to Matt Mullenweg.
Editorial expansion In 2011, Memeburn expanded to launch Gearburn.com, a sister site which is focused on gadget and game reviews and news and Motorburn.com, which focuses on car news.
Users were able to moderate or respond to each post, a template the editor admitted borrowing from Slashdot.
Related publications include Brandweek, Adweek Magazine's Technology Marketing (ISSN 1536-2272), and Marketing Week (ISSN 0892-8274).
For a virtual funeral it is used an online video conference platform, such as Zoom, Skype, Google Meet.
retailers' sales of surveillance equipment manufactured by companies linked to abuses of Uyghurs as well as with The Intercept to investigate the U.S.
User contributions since May 2, 2018 are licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International.
WinPenPack programs are distributed as free software, and can be downloaded individually or grouped into suites.
Media personality Ryan Seacrest first came to national prominence at CNET, as the host of The New Edge and doing various voice-over work for CNET.
Wired executives blamed Goldman for mismanaging their IPO and not closing the round which already had investors booked.
It was further developed by the same people who developed Acorn Arcade, the contents of which were incorporated in 2006.
Alcatel-Lucent was looking to integrate ProgrammableWeb’s API monitoring services and other API related technologies with its own Open API Service and Developer Platform to strengthen its relationship with developers.
The website's author, Denis Kryuchkov, was nominated for the Producer of the Year prize (Russian: Продюсер года).
AI-generated content (2023) In January 2023, Wikipedia editors began the process of downgrading CNET's reliability rating as a source following the revelation that CNET was publishing content generated by artificial intelligence.
GeekWire is regularly featured on the Techmeme leaderboard as one of the sources most frequently posted to that site.
A "Tech Update" section was created to serve as a directory of proprietary IT research (dubbed "IT Priorities"), and a new "Power Center" was implemented to prominently feature webcasts, white papers and case studies from partners.
Numerama (formerly Ratiatum) is a French language news website that focuses on digital and internet technology.
Due to the prominence of Stack Exchange profiles in web search results and the Stack Overflow Careers job board, users may have reason to game the system.
Background Founded by Shaherose Charania, Angie Chang, and Shivani Sopory, the group organizes workshops and events aimed at helping female entrepreneurs.
Up to the end of 2019, the platform reported 272,020 fixed vulnerabilities using coordinated disclosure program based on ISO 29147 guidelines.
Additional functionality is available, such as providing building guides, sharing build lists, photos, and instruction, alerts for price drops, forums, and filters for automatically adjusting pre-made lists of components.
The latest round brought the company's total funding to more than $150 million and estimated valuation to nearly $500 million.
The name comes from the so-called LAN (Local area network) parties, which were where the founders gathered to play videogames 20 years ago, and would translate to English as "LANners".
Softpedia, VR-Zone, TweakTown, and the Tom's Hardware Forum all credited SemiAccurate for leaking these specifications.
Slyck covered other news topics such as rollout of broadband Internet, new and emerging technologies, device hardware, and advances in computer networking.
Stan's Lounge is crowded with MacCentral and MacMinute faithful in honor of Stan Flack and all that he did for the Macintosh community.
The project re-launched in June 2002 with new members, a redesigned website, new site features, and a redefined mission focused on developer education and standards compliance in authoring tools as well as browsers.
The magazine was published monthly until 2024, when it switched to a bi-monthly schedule with six issues per year.
A comprehensive list of advice and recommendations are available in the "Reduce" section of the site.
In 2017, The Next Web's Amsterdam conference came under fire for making misleading statements, and having a lack of transparency about paying presenters for speaking appearances, and for having a gender gap in the number of its male and female presenters, and a gender pay gap in their compensation.
TechRepublic was a part of the Red Ventures business portfolio alongside ZDNet, CNET, GameSpot, and Metacritic.
In 2025, TNW announced it would shut down its events and media operations, holding its last conference in June, while its coworking business continues to operate.
When Drobe closed as a news site in 2009, The Icon Bar was cited as a notable alternative and took over running the annual awards scheme for the RISC OS scene.
Events on behalf of the site were created, along with a podcast with Benjamin Gilbert and a webcomic.
Attrition is an information security-related website, created in October, 1998, which used to be updated at least weekly by an all-volunteer staff.
During this period it changed its motto to "the Independent Journal of Open Standards and Open Source".
It posted an announcement on July 20, 2016, that the site was down for an upgrade and would be restored in the shortest possible time.
Cangeloso, who had been promoted to Editor-in-Chief when Joel Evans left at the close of 2009 stayed on board in the same position.
In 2019, the sites underwent a redesign, with the Memeburn, Gearburn, and Motorburn sites operating under the Memeburn.com domain.
In 2022, IPVM partnered with the MIT Technology Review to examine an Israeli company's plan to develop DNA-based facial recognition and was cited in an ESPN exposé on Brooklyn Nets owner Joseph Tsai discussing Alibaba's, Megvii's and SenseTime's Uyghur-targeting software.
It functions as an online code editor and open-source learning environment, where developers can create code snippets, called "pens," and test them.
On August 9, 2021, a Nashville-based technology marketing company, TechnologyAdvice, announced the acquisition of TechRepublic.
It developed as a project of Graham's company Y Combinator, functioning as a real-world application of the Arc programming language which Graham co-developed.
In 2016, it was announced that Condé Nast had purchased Backchannel, though no terms of the deal were communicated, and only a transfer of the editorial team was planned.
In August, a complaint about Cryptome's identification of alleged Japanese terrorists led Network Solutions to briefly shut down the site.
Haller and includes contributions from over 100 people, including developers, designers, and translators.
Open-sourcing On August 7, 2020, Hunt announced on his blog his intention to open-source the Have I Been Pwned?
Its controversial opinions and perceived biases in its computer hardware rankings against AMD products have drawn criticism in the tech press.
An example of an online memorial is The COVID Memorial, which is a global memorial to commemorate all those who have lost their lives due to COVID-19.
The publication was subsequently acquired by TechMediaNetwork in 2013; in 2014, TechMediaNetwork changed its name to Purch, which was then acquired by Future in 2018.
The site's staff decorated the Trocadero Theatre for the screenings of Jennifer's Body in 2009 and Zombieland in 2010.
The website publishes a repository of web APIs, mashups, and applications, and has documented over 19,000 open web APIs and thousands of applications.
Philadelphia Geek Awards In 2011, Geekadelphia launched the Philadelphia Geek Awards, in conjunction with the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University, to honor and celebrate achievements within the Philadelphia community.
Its content is compiled through a combination of live company data, artificial intelligence, and market activity contributed by a user base of over 80 million.
It was also explained that Backchannel had migrated away from Medium because of the platform's shifting business model.
On February 3, 2023, Mulesoft announced that it had shut down Programmable Web after 17 years of operation.
The Next Web company was established in 2006 by co-founders Boris Veldhuijzen van Zanten and Patrick de Laive in Amsterdam, Netherlands, and a technology news website of the same name was started in 2009.
Three years later on April 13, 2013, MuleSoft announced the acquisition of ProgrammableWeb to "become the go-to destination for APIs and Integration”.
He has publicly denounced the writings from competitor Tom's Hardware, Gizmodo, HardOCP, The Inquirer and DigiTimes.
On October 23, 2019, Lacy announced that Pando had been sold to one of its partners, BuySellAds, and that she had retired from journalism to focus on her new venture Chairman Mom—a community for "working women".
Operations Informa is organized into five operating divisions: Informa Connect, Informa Festivals, Informa Markets, Informa TechTarget, and Taylor & Francis.
The site features coverage on CPUs, motherboards, RAM, PC cases, graphic cards, display technology, power supplies and displays, storage, smartphones, tablets, gaming, consoles, and computer peripherals.
The attack was able to extract 8% of the site's username/password pairs, which amounted to approximately 8,000 of the 9,000 active accounts and 90,000 old or inactive accounts created during the site's 10-year history.
In late April 2002, Butler announced a relaunch of the site that included a reduction in links to other sites and a further increase in original content.
At the end of 2016, the site hosted a five-hour Facebook "Gifted and Talented Show" made up of sketches and holiday gift suggestions.
In June 2024, Informa closed two UK-based titles: Digital TV Europe and Television Business International.
The software was soon thereafter discontinued and Ghacks turned from a development type blog to a software and online news oriented blog.
Kaspersky's software is available for Macs, PCs, Android, iOS, Windows Mobile, BlackBerry and Symbian.
Ultimate Frisbee Association Brownlee is a professional ultimate frisbee player for the New York Empire of the Ultimate Frisbee Association (UFA), who were the UFA champions in 2019, 2022 and 2023.
Some groups are concerned that the workers who do the actual recycling are exposed to toxins that can be harmful to their health.
Its reports have drawn the ire of Chinese video surveillance equipment company Hikvision, whom IPVM revealed to have been providing surveillance equipment and technology key in the mass internment of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang.
In January 2024, Informa announced that it would merge the digital business of Informa Tech with TechTarget.
TechRepublic is an online trade publication and social community for IT professionals, providing advice on best practices and tools for the needs of IT decision-makers.
In July 2007, the forum underwent major changes that site administrators stated as necessary for furthering userbase growth.
Some posts are designated as "community wiki", which have a lower reputation requirement for editing.
History "MacInTouch" began as an independent print journal in 1985, originally published by Ford-LePage Inc., to provide news and information about Macintosh computers.
Kaspersky linked the malware to a state-affiliated group but did not specify which country was behind the attack.
Uber controversy On October 22, 2014, an article by Lacy on PandoDaily was published where she sharply criticised the "asshole culture" of Uber and said she intended to delete the mobile app from her phone.
Gists' URLs use hexadecimal IDs, and edits to Gists are recorded in a revision history, which can show the text difference of thirty revisions per page with an option between a "split" and "unified" view.
8-Track Heaven aka Eight-Track Heaven was a website that was dedicated to the 8-track cartridge and the associated equipment.
The research consisted of two phases: Phase 1 tested over 3 billion drug-like molecules against 12 proteins which were known to be suitable targets for anti-cancer drugs.
Founded in 2007, the blog also co-hosted the Philadelphia Geek Awards with the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University.
Jiayuan fixed the issue and publicly thanked YW, but reported him for alleged theft of more than 900 rows of personal information in January 2016.
Although membership was free, the forum community allows for anonymous posting so the information or source in [anonymous] posts may be questionable as compared to posts made by actual frequent members of the site.
In 2016, TechTarget named Michael Cotoia as CEO and board member, and elected Greg Stakosch as executive chairman.
When the account is memorialized, Facebook removes sensitive information such as contact information and status updates, but still enables friends and family to leave posts on the profile wall in remembrance.
In December 2013, Informa acquired the assets of Elsevier Business Intelligence (EBI) from Reed Elsevier.
MacMinute was noted for its up to the minute digest of current breaking news about everything connected to the Macintosh and Apple products but one of its more important functions was to serve as a forum for the Macintosh community.
Products Crunchbase's core offerings include: Crunchbase Pro, a paid subscription service that offers advanced search filters, analysis tools, and alerts for monitoring private companies.
In August 2011, SemiAccurate published two stories, one covering the specifications of Nvidia's unreleased mobile graphics line up, and another covering the specifications of AMD's (one of Nvidia's direct competitors) unreleased mobile graphics line up.
Additional components Aside from the immediate functional uses, the site educates the public on how to "reduce" their energy usage and "rethink" the way they consume electronics products.
It gives consumers the opportunity to find an electronics recycler in their area using a zip-code search.
Since the CryptoLocker ransomware attack in September 2013, and a subsequent DDoS of the site due to its reporting on the new malware, Bleeping Computer has been reporting on new ransomware families as they are released.
PortableApps.com is a website that distributes free applications for Windows that have been packaged for portability.
An average of five posts are published each day of the week with topics ranging from Windows and Linux operating system news to web browser tips (focusing on Firefox, Google Chrome and Opera, online services like Gmail and Outlook.com, and general tech news and tips.
For example, in 2008 it appealed to site users to make videos arguing the case against the HADOPI law.
The site aims to be a reference guide for the IT industry and includes reviews, ratings, articles, and detailed product feature comparisons.
Had browser makers not been persuaded to do so, the Web would likely have fractured into pockets of incompatible content, with various websites available only to people who possessed the right browser.
Kaspersky is especially well-known for its work uncovering Stuxnet, Careto, and Flame." Stuxnet In 2010, Kaspersky Lab worked with Microsoft to counteract the Stuxnet worm, which had infected 14 industrial locations in Iran using four zero-day vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows.
Program Unlike commercial bug bounty programs, Open Bug Bounty is a non-profit project and does not require payment by either the researchers or the website operators.
TechRadar Pro TechRadar Pro, an arm of the main site, is a B2B-focused property with an emphasis on small business.
PCPartPicker is a comparison shopping website that allows users to compare prices and compatibility of computer components on different retailers online.
Eventually, the site came out of public beta with the name Ask Ubuntu, which was chosen through a community voting process, and was launched alongside Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat in October 2010.
History Beginnings: 1991–1995 ZDNET began as a subscription-based digital service called "ZiffNet" that offered computing information to users of CompuServe.
CodePen is a large community for web designers and developers to showcase their coding skills, with an estimated 330,000 registered users and 14.16 million monthly visitors.
Anand Lal Shimpi is frequently quoted and featured on DailyTech; however, the two publications compete against each other for readership.
In 2020 the event was fully online and for their 2021 event they held a hybrid and smaller event because of COVID-19 restrictions in the Netherlands.
An argument between attrition.org and MasterCard ensued, resulting in their communications and one final "Priceless" parody being posted online.
Launched to provide a web only product for increasingly internet-literate users, access was deliberately made free to compete with paid-for magazine subscriptions.
In April 2023, Brownlee collaborated with footwear brand Atoms to create the high-top Sneaker 251, named after the duration of his first YouTube video.
In February 2018, the platform had 100,000 fixed vulnerabilities using coordinated disclosure program based on ISO 29147 guidelines.
Popular memorial sites include one example of this is the collective memorial website Find a Grave, which at that time was focused on publishing memorial information about famous people.
Graham stated he hopes to avoid the Eternal September that results in the general decline of intelligent discourse within a community.
In July 2013, that company was acquired by TechMediaNetwork, Inc., which changed its name to Purch in April 2014.
GeekWire founders John Cook and Todd Bishop were former technology reporters at the Seattle Post-Intelligencer and the Puget Sound Business Journal.
AlternativeTo does not host software for download but it provides links to official websites to where you can download or buy them.
M3 was influential in Sweden during the 2000s, when its tests, reviews, and investigations were frequently cited as sources in mainstream media such as Dagens Industri, Svenska Dagbladet, Expressen, Dagens Nyheter, Aftonbladet and others.
Availability of inexpensive or free online space allows grievers to include extensive content such as stories and discussions.
In April 2022, the website went inactive, save for a black main page with the message "Geekologie has shut down.
It allowed users to download, get support for, contribute to, and report issues about the open source Globus Toolkit based products offered by Univa.
[it's] not just bad code, [it's] believable bad code." In addition to "a High-Resolution JPEG of an Official Olympiad of Misguided Geeks at Worse Than Failure First Prize Trophy," the winner received a 15-inch MacBook Pro.
MacInTouch's moderated forums provide technical analysis, problem-solving and news from the community.
It was founded in 2012 by full-stack developers Alex Vazquez and Tim Sabat and front-end designer Chris Coyier.
It publishes news focusing heavily on cybersecurity, but also covers other topics including computer software, computer hardware, operating system and general technology.
In May 2009 the company announced that it would restructure its business to be incorporated in Jersey but tax resident in Switzerland.
The site currently hosts various projects created and suggested by forum members, and is also used for bug reporting and suggestions.
GitHub Marketplace service GitHub also provides some software as a service (SaaS) integrations for adding extra features to projects.
The project was operated from January 22, 2002, until February 14, 2002, and ended after a total of 3.57 billion molecules had finished screening.
History BleepingComputer was founded in 2004 after Abrams could not find existing technical support sites that could offer easy-to-understand instructions for his friends and family.
External links MacMinute as served on MacTech servers References (1) "Opening Day at MacMinute", "MacMinute News", May 9, 2001.
The subbrand "acts as a complementary source of information targeted specifically at businesses and decision makers," the company says.
Originally edited by Tim Gallagher, the column was taken over by Derrick Pallas (now the sole editor of CodeSOD) as well as Devin Moore and Mike Nuss on 2 January 2007.
From 2008 to 2011, the site held an annual Christmas Giveaway, with commercial software given away to readers.
This merge brought many changes, foremost of which would be a new user interface and the renaming of CNET TV as CNET Video.
Bishop and Cook joined the Puget Sound Business Journal to create TechFlash in September 2008, leaving to start GeekWire on March 7, 2011.
On July 4, 2002, Open for Business, LinuxandMain.com, KernelTrap and Device Forge's LinuxDevices and DesktopLinux.com formed LinuxDailyNews (LDN), an aggregation site that was intended to help increase the publicity of independent open source news sites.
On 9 January 2024, Leenheer announced a problem with the app's server and added that he has no incentives to work on it anymore.
There is also an annual business plan competition that culminates in a Pitch Night, where finalists present their plan before a panel of judges.
Phandroid has evolved to cover news from Google in general, as well as Android TV, Android Wear, Google Glass, Chromecast, and Android Auto.
The MacInTouch Home Page website, created by Ric Ford in 1994, was serving daily Mac news and information to more than a million people by 1998.
Wired is a bimonthly American magazine that examines the impact of emerging technologies on culture, the economy, and politics.
Following an almost $400 million loss at CNET as a result of the dot-com crash, the company ended the Gamecenter Alliance network in January 2001.
By 1996, it had launched a book publishing division (HardWired), licensed a Japanese edition with Dohosha Publishing, created a British edition (Wired UK) in a joint venture with the Guardian newspaper, and had signed with Gruner and Jahr to do a German edition to be headquartered in Berlin.
The idea for SDNCentral came in 2012 after a Twitter feed focusing on technology news run by Palmer and Chua in 2011 grew popular, and the company changed its focus to market analytics and technology journalism, as a way to educate industry drivers on developments in the field.
It is particularly interested in the BRICS, as well as digital innovation, viral online marketing campaigns and general tech trends.
On June 5, 2008 it is announced on the Macminute news site that MacTech's Community News Scan and Macsimum News will act as caretakers to the archives of MacMinute News and Forums.
Cole – "Middle Child" (6× platinum) ¥$ (Kanye West and Ty Dolla Sign) – "Burn" DJ Khaled – "Holy Mountain" Brockhampton – "Dearly Departed" Lil Wayne – "Harden" Fred Again – "Leavemealone" Nas – "WTF SMH" Drake – "Stories About My Brother" Nicki Minaj – "Super Freaky Girl" Mary J.
Prior to Meredith purchasing Time Inc., Trusted Reviews was regularly featured as a contributor to Time Magazine.
Dean Garfield, then head of the MPAA's legal team, was interviewed by Nicholas Parr about the MPAA's legal campaign against movie piracy.
The core of the site was a collection of testimonials by people who had switched from Internet Explorer to alternative web browsers.
Users with 2,000 reputation points or more can edit the questions and answers directly, without having their edits go through a similar peer review process.
Gmail, Google's webmail service, as well as many other RSS readers, has included Geekologie as a default RSS feed, pulling the latest articles which appear at the top of all user's mailboxes.
Each application has an RSS feed for notifying users of newly listed alternatives to that application.
Users can browse and hear all music before downloading it in WAV-format to use in a digital audio workstation (DAW) such as Ableton, Reason, or FL Studio.
Posts get there from users who have not yet received access to commenting and creating posts without pre-moderation.
An album Links Outta Here which is dedicated to her was released on the Generator Sound Art that year.
InfraXmedia acquired SDxCentral in April 2025, with executive editor Dan Meyer staying with the brand post-purchase.
In general, content that can be submitted is defined as "anything that gratifies one's intellectual curiosity." The word hacker in "Hacker News" is used in its original meaning and refers to the hacker culture which consists of people who enjoy tinkering with technology.
ITerating was a Wiki-based software guide, where users could find, compare and give reviews to software products.
It was founded in 1997 in Louisville, Kentucky, by Tom Cottingham and Kim Spalding, and debuted as a website in May 1999.
The website received more than 400,000 visitors per day as of January 2017, and as of June 2019 has an Alexa traffic rank of 9,537 worldwide and 4,269 in the United States.
However, the publication would begin to gain notoriety more broadly following its investigations into Chinese surveillance firms.
History The company, under the name SDNCentral (named for software-defined networking, which was the original intent for the company) was co-founded by Matthew Palmer and Roy Chua in 2012.
It does not evaluate a browser's conformance to other web standards, such as Cascading Style Sheets, ECMAScript, or the Document Object Model.
The platform was acquired by InfraXmedia, the parent company of DatacenterDynamics, in April 2025, with its headquarters moved from Denver, Colorado, to London.
The GitHub Archive Program is also working with partners on Project Silica, in an attempt to store all public repositories for 10,000 years.
M3 is a Swedish technology news website, established in 2001 through the merger of two technology magazines, Maxidata and Mobile World.
The company had an initial public offering in May 2007, being listed on the NASDAQ exchange with the symbol TTGT.
In his last issue in February, he ushered in a complete redesign of the magazine, the first since its start.
iThome.com.tw speculated that the most likely reason for the shutdown of WooYun was that hackers on the platform exposed a vulnerability in the system of China's United Front Work Department, which had leaked Chinese state secrets and stepped on the bottom line of the Chinese government.
The app drew widespread criticism from the tech community, mainly for its implementation of a subscription model ($12/month or $50/year) that was deemed overpriced.
Wiki Matrix Iterating announced the addition of a Feature Matrix in June 2007, which allows users to dynamically create customized, side-by-side feature comparisons of software solutions.
Notable guest appearances In addition to the mostly anonymous stories, several prominent figures have written stories they’ve encountered in their professional experience, such as Blake Ross who wrote of the failure of Netscape 7.
In fall 2015 it had 466,000 unique visitors per month; in February 2019, Humanoid reported that the site had 2 million unique visitors per month; by December 2021, 7–10 million.
The troubled Geeknet sold Geek.com to Ziff Davis at the beginning of January 2011 for an undisclosed amount.
In each different winPenPack suite, the main menu is pre-configured to list all programs available (including programs belonging to other suites), and can be edited at any time.
Despite its place as the oldest operating Android site, it has declined in recent years and is no longer actively maintained.
To test with the open free slots, non-subscribers must finish "a 3D captcha minigame" with the objective of shooting 13 ships to the ground.
It was founded in April 1997 by then-14-year-old Anand Lal Shimpi, who was CEO and editor-in-chief until August 2014, with Ryan Smith replacing him as editor-in-chief.
All resumes and vacancies divided by sector ("consulting, outsourcing," "Optimizing sites (SEO)», «Media", etc.).
In February 2024, he joined everyday accessories company Ridge as a board member and chief creative partner.
On November 6, 2007, Wired.com published an article titled "Android Already Has Phandroids." Due to the Wired article and growing interest in Android, the site saw massive growth overnight.
The repository has an emphasis on extreme programming, and is hosted by Cunningham & Cunningham (C2) of Portland, Oregon.
The site covers news released by researchers and companies, but also performs in-house investigative reporting and analysis of ransomware and malware.
It ridicules secular and religious credulity, and lampoons the exaggerated religious "enthusiasm" (excessive emotion, not keenness) of the Methodist movement.
A transhumanist must safeguard value in the universe—so long as one's actions do not conflict with the First and Second Laws.
5, Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling paintings, etc., as a separate and central artistic contribution.
In a final ironic flourish, Swift warns that if Christianity were abolished, the stock market would fall, costing Great Britain more than the country had ever spent for Christianity's preservation, and that there would be no reason to lose that much money merely for the sake of destroying the faith.
The page was subsequently unblocked, with a Facebook spokesperson saying in an email to the Observer that "the pages were removed in error and restored as soon as we were able to investigate." References External links Official website
Features The FAQs and FRAs (Frequently Rebutted Assertions) on the TalkOrigins Archive cover a wide range of topics associated with evolutionary biology and creationism.
Boghossian was Chairman of the Prison Advisory Committee for the Columbia River Correctional Institution.
Newspapers in England and elsewhere accepted the timeline of events offered by the Second Spanish Republic at face value.
The content of the Traité has been traced primarily to Spinoza, but with subsequent additions drawn from the ideas of Pierre Charron, Thomas Hobbes, François de La Mothe Le Vayer, Gabriel Naudé and Lucilio Vanini.
World Three, Popper argued, was the product of individual human beings in exactly the same sense that an animal path in the jungle is the creation of many individual animals but not planned or intended by any of them.
Bibliography Ackerman, Galia, with Anna Hutsol, Oksana Shachko, Alexandra 'Sasha' Shevchenko, & Inna Shevchenko, FEMEN, Published by Calmann-Lévy (Paris 2013), 280 pages.
The British Centre for Science Education (BCSE) is a volunteer-run organization in the United Kingdom that has the goal of "countering creationism within the UK" and was formed to campaign against the teaching of creationism in schools.
It allowed me to realize my decades-old dream of making a film about the Thirty Years' War and its endless atrocities without needing a budget of millions of dollars to depict the war's bloody significance.
With sections on evolution, creationism, geology, astronomy and hominid evolution, the web site provides broad coverage of evolutionary biology and the socio-political antievolution movement.
The Chandogya Upanishad (3.16) states that the Purushamedha is actually a metaphor for life itself, and it compares the various stages of life to the oblations that are offered.
"There Is Power in a Union" was first published in the Little Red Songbook in 1913, and has been recorded several times.
In support of this he has quoted hers article: "Whence, then, the Gospels, the life of Jesus of Nazareth?
In November 2021, the South Korean NIS reported that the North Korean government has begun using the term Kimjongunism, in an effort to establish an independent ideological system centered on Kim.
According to a February 2020 poll, 53% of people in France support Mila and half of them are in favor of a right of blasphemy (half being against), which was seen as surprisingly low.
After his sailing trip, Knights suffers a devastating personal tragedy at the hands of Christian fundamentalists.
While Christianity is currently the predominant religion in North America, Latin America, and Europe, the religion is declining in many of these areas, particularly in Western Europe, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand.
Promotion On September 9, 2009, Strange Music released a video on its YouTube account showing Yates regarding to his upcoming music video for "Show Me a God", stating that it would be a very serious video dedicated to his mother.
Since 2014, the band has been following a quarterly release schedule, producing a new studio album about every three months by releasing double singles bi-weekly.
The first one, who threatened her to "do her a Samuel Paty" if she tells him where she lives, received a suspended prison sentence of two years.
Throughout the occupation, it was German policy to plunder France, and food shortages were always a major problem as the majority of food from the French countryside went to Germany.
The song ends with a plea to protect children from the crusade-waging "bigots and bully boys / Slugging it out in the yard." "Leaving Beirut" The second track of the single runs at 12 minutes and 29 seconds.
The furore came to be known as the "'More popular than Jesus' controversy" or the "Jesus controversy".
Personal life Edwin Kagin was born in Greenville, South Carolina, to a Presbyterian minister father who had been born in Kentucky and a Daughters of the American Revolution mother who had been born in South Carolina.
However, he stood against the persecution of homosexuals by Castro's government, which he compared to Nazi persecution of the Jews, and said: "In Cuba there are no Jews, but there are homosexuals".
To the right, the "scale of vociferation" measures his oratory, rising from "natural tone" to "bull roar".
The newspaper was notable for its anti-religious view, regarding Christian beliefs with harsh skepticism.
Gavin scolds Lucetti for focusing too much on the pain of his wife's betrayal instead of the love that motivated her.
The song purports to be a response to the Second Vatican Council, a meeting that proposed reforms to the Catholic Church.
A spoken introduction describes the song as a response to the "Vatican II" council—which, among other things, broadened the range of music that could be used in services—and humorously proposes this rag as a more accessible alternative to traditional liturgical music.
At the age of seven, Goldman moved with her family to the Prussian city of Königsberg (then part of the German Empire), and she was enrolled in a Realschule.
Gavin points out that a Chinese child who dies in a traffic accident might never even know about Jesus, and therefore has no chance to be born again.
This would also imply that sentences like the negation of 'God exists' or 'God does not exist' are likewise meaningless, i.e., neither true nor false.
However, Theodore Drange distinguishes noncognitivism and agnosticism, describing the latter as accepting that theological language is meaningful but being noncommittal about its truth or falsity on the grounds of insufficient evidence.
Personal life Sandstedt married Charlotta ("Lotten") Sofia Wilhelmina Widell (6 April 1861, Rasbokil parish, Uppsala County – 25 October 1943) on 9 July 1881.
Internet phenomenon As word of Henderson's challenge to the board spread, his website and cause received more attention and support.
The Dude De Ching is a reinterpretation of Peter Merel's translation of the Tao Te Ching using dialogue and story elements from The Big Lebowski.
The lyrics open with the image of a child sleeping "in the glow of [a] Donald Duck light", a reference to Waters' prior song "The Tide Is Turning." Waters goes on to ask why a culture whose primary concerns are luxury, consumption and petty values would "kill the child".
Only A Game, Saturday, July 11, 2009 - Discussion of Dudeism and brief audio interview with Oliver Benjamin on NPR's Only A Game - at 46:11 Dude Awakening - Sunday Herald article featuring Dudeism
Falk (16 August 2009 – January 2013) Deborah Haarsma (January 2013 – March 2025) Kristine Torjesen (March 2025 – present) During the COVID-19 pandemic, BioLogos sponsored livestream events featuring the NIH director and BioLogos founder Francis Collins.
Lastly, the Quote Mine Project examines the use of Quote mining – taking quotes out of context – by creationists.
In 1995, Vickers, then a computer science graduate student at the University of California at Irvine, created the TalkOrigins Archive web site.
Philipse's Atheïstisch manifest got him into a fierce argument with several theologians, including Eginhard Meijering, Vincent Brümmer and Harry Kuitert, who replied to him disapprovingly, and eventually faced him in a debate on "the tenability of atheism" in the spring of 1996.
The Roman Catholic Church has witnessed the highest retention rate among all Christian denominations.
However, if one wished to define the word 'God' as something unknowable, God cannot have any descriptive contents and therefore not exist.
Falun Gong On July 20, 1999, the Chinese government, led by Jiang Zemin from 1989 to 2002, commenced the persecution of Falun Gong.
It was originally released as a free download on iTunes but was subsequently released as a promotional 7" vinyl and as a B-side to "First Day of My Life".
A poor Jew suddenly appeared who convinced an ignorant following that he was the Son of God, and who was eventually executed by other Jews.
The man continuously gorges on food until finally his belly explodes, his innards splattering all over the room.
The Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse revealed that between January 1950 and February 2015, 4,445 people alleged incidents of child sexual abuse in 4,765 claims.
History The channel was founded in Cyprus in 2003 by Al Hayat Ministries, an evangelical organization.
Director James McTeigue first met Natalie Portman during the filming of Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, on which he worked as assistant director.
In The Moral Landscape, he argues that science can in principle answer moral questions and help maximize well-being.
doll heads dripping blood and crying to orbiting paper roses, flashes of heat lightning, close ups of lion fur and mane, carousels spinning, lots of eyeballs crying and blinking, and crucifixes".
The Wesleyan Methodist Connection was organized in 1843, largely by those coming out of the Methodist Episcopal Church; grew to some 15,000 members.
And thus the modern spirit has been torn loose from the deepest and strongest supports of its life, from its foundation in the Absolute, in the self-existent Being, in the Value of all values...
The Industrial Workers of the World (commonly known as the Wobblies) concentrated much of its labor trying to organize migrant workers in lumber and construction camps.
He told his boss it was "the most moral record ever made." KMPC in Los Angeles played the record, but some advertisers required that their ads be scheduled more than fifteen minutes away from it.
"Hitchens," noted The Progressive, published his usual stack of important books during the course of 2001.
Corey Taylor sings from the perspective of a man who was sexually abused by a priest when he was a child and now confronts his abuser.
In 2010, two Tibetan laypeople were killed while trying to stop a mass arrest of approximately 300 monks at Kirti Monastery.
He emphasizes the need for a rational framework in religious thought, advocating for doctrines that align with reason and moral clarity.
Ron Hubbard Exposed (1990) by Jon Atack A Queer and Pleasant Danger: A Memoir (2012) by Kate Bornstein ISBN 9780807001653,OL 25139468M Religion Inc.
On 31 October 2011, they demonstrated dressed as French maids in Paris against Dominique Strauss-Kahn, on 5 November 2011, they protested against Silvio Berlusconi in Rome, the following day, they protested against Pope Benedict XVI outside St.
Critique of philosophy and religion In a series of historical works written in the 1830s, Feuerbach developed his own philosophical positions through a critique of other philosophers, a method he called "genetic analysis".
Rather, it is recommended as an essential principle of methodology that, if enacted by a system or community, will lead to slow but steady progress of a sort (relative to how well the system or community enacts the method).
She was vilified in the press as the "high priestess of anarchy", while many newspapers declared the anarchist movement responsible for the murder.
Talk Reason provides a forum for the publication of papers against creationism and intelligent design.
Since Euthyphro seems so assured of himself, and Socrates is facing a trial for impiety, Socrates asks Euthyphro to help him with a definition of "piety" that he can use in his defence.
"Sinner" is a song by American rock band Drowning Pool, released in August 2002 as the third and final single from their debut album of the same name.
The film received generally positive reviews from critics, and grossed $57.3 million on a $13–18 million budget.
Ousby wrote: "But, in however humble a fashion, everyone still had to decide how they were going to cope with life in a fragmenting society ...
In his first religiously critical work, Holbach points out aspects of the Christian faith that he considers contradictory, and particularly criticizes the moral and political influence of the Christian religion and its clergy in harsh terms.
Among Lennon's many possessions, Cleave found a full-sized crucifix, a gorilla costume, a medieval suit of armour, and a well-organised library containing works by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Jonathan Swift, Oscar Wilde, George Orwell, and Aldous Huxley.
In November 2000, a modern version of Purushamedha was organised by All World Gayatri Pariwar at Shantikunja Haridvara, marking the completion of 12 year Yugsandhi Mahapurascharana.
Christian polemical writing at the time took an "unusually severe attitude" toward Islam, condemning whatever Muslims believed, even when it was partially correct according to Christian teaching.
Ian Dury's version It was recorded by Ian Dury, originally on the soundtrack album Apples (1989) and later on The Bus Driver's Prayer & Other Stories (1992).
Ian Cohen of Pitchfork described the song as "a staggering duality of childish innocence and poetic confidence" and an "impossibly catchy song that skips along while carrying the weight of the universe" and awarded it Best New Track.
The American Baptist Anti-Slavery Convention in 1840 brought the issue to the fore, defining a split among Baptists.
The full fifteen-minute pitch demo remained lost until it was uploaded to the internet by Robert Paulson on his personal website in 2022.
External links Media related to Intolerance at Wikimedia Commons The full text of Intolerance at Wikisource Intolerance at IMDb Intolerance is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive Intolerance on YouTube Intolerance at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
The music video was filmed for the single "Leave Me Alone" which it was exclusively premiered on mtvU.com on October 27, 2009, in which was the album's original release date.
Jews believe the Messiah will be a direct (blood) descendant of King David through Solomon on his father's side and will be born naturally to a husband and wife (Genesis 49:10, Isaiah 11:1, Jeremiah 23:5, 33:17; Ezekiel 34:23–24).
Finch asks who V was, and Evey replies, "He was all of us." Cast Hugo Weaving as V, a masked, charismatic and skilled anarchist terrorist who had been the unwilling subject of experimentation by Norsefire.
The Sydney Morning Herald named Family Guy the "Show of the Week" on April 21, 2009, hailing it a "pop culture-heavy masterpiece".
The same study found a retention rate among American Christians closer to 67%, with one-third of those who were Christian in childhood leaving the religion by age 30.
James McDonald is a British mathematician, etymologist, historian, theologian and non-fiction writer.
On January 27, 1994, Huang Fangxin was arrested and labeled a "ringleader of an illegal religious organization" due to his involvement in "illegal religious" activities, which included organizing a gospel team.
This is a plausible reason to include it in the list of Kali-varjyas, even if it was a purely symbolic ceremony during the period of the composition of the Śatapatha Brāhmaṇa.
[...] Anyone concerned with film history has to see Intolerance, and pass on." The film has been widely reported to have been a box office bomb, but this is a myth attributed to its misreported budget.
Socrates is awaiting a preliminary hearing for his trial for impiety, which is being prosecuted by Meletus.
A shoeblack vomits nails and pins – according to John Ireland possibly a reference to the boy of Bilson, who ate metal items and spat them out to be considered bewitched.
In Protagoras, Socrates argues for the unity of virtues using the example of courage: if someone knows what the relevant danger is, they can undertake a risk.
The Village Voice's Joy Press, reviewing the book alongside Martin Amis's The War Against Cliché also tendered tempered praise: Letters shows Hitchens's best and worst sides.
"Ya Hey" is a song by American indie pop band Vampire Weekend, taken from their third studio album Modern Vampires of the City.
"Swimming in Your Ocean" is a song by Canadian folk-rock group Crash Test Dummies and was the second single from their 1993 album God Shuffled His Feet.
When Goldman was released after ten months, a raucous crowd of nearly 3,000 people greeted her at the Thalia Theater in New York City.
They initially protested about issues affecting female students, but rapidly moved on to demonstrating against the sexual exploitation of Ukrainian women.
Regarding the making of music video, Dave Williams said "They rained on us for four hours straight and it was cold, man.
In 2007, Collins founded the BioLogos Foundation to "contribute to the public voice that represents the harmony of science and faith." He served as the foundation's president until he was confirmed as director of the NIH.
The Talmud indicates that Rabbi Gamaliel II directed Samuel ha-Katan to write another paragraph for the central Amidah-prayer, inveighing against (early Christian) informers and heretics, which was inserted as the twelfth paragraph in modern sequence (Birkat haMinim).
Studies of this kind may be regarded a special kind of reception history (how Watson's paper was received).
In 1956, the organization sued to attempt to remove the "under god" from the Pledge of Allegiance, which had been added the year before.
Atheïstisch manifest: drie wijsgerige opstellen over godsdienst en moraal ("Atheist Manifesto: Three Philosophical Essays on Religion and Morality") is an essay bundle by the Dutch philosopher Herman Philipse.
Against David's advice, bagger Norm starts to go outside to fix the store's emergency generator, but he is grabbed by a tentacled creature and dragged into the mist.
While Christianity remains the dominant religion, the region has experienced a significant decline in the proportion of Catholics, a surge in Evangelical and Pentecostal movements, and a notable rise in the non-religious population.
According to his publishers his book Beyond Belief took over 20 years of research, including an overland expedition from Europe to South and Central Asia, retracing the journeys of Alexander the Great, Robert Byron and Eric Newby.
Trying to solve it by changing or managing these industries better might fail, since it essentially acknowledges this imaginary as real, thus perpetuating the problem.
In Vedanta and the Puranas Human sacrifice and cannibalism are explicitly condemned in the Bhagavata Purana (5.26.31).
Garrison's newspaper, The Liberator, served to spread his view of abolition and anti-institutionalism.
Family On 25 July 2012, North Korean state media reported for the first time that Kim Jong Un was married to Ri Sol Ju.
In 2008, Henderson interpreted the growing pirate activities at the Gulf of Aden as additional support, pointing out that Somalia has "the highest number of pirates and the lowest carbon emissions of any country".
This chapter covers Jesus' approach to politics, social issues, family, personal conduct, and cosmic concerns.
Billy Bragg reused the title for his 1986 song "There Is Power in a Union" on the Talking with the Taxman About Poetry album, which is set to the tune of "Battle Cry of Freedom".
He said that it was "no coincidence" that Paul Williams, then a seventeen-year-old Swarthmore College student, launched Crawdaddy!
The Catholic biblical critique asserts that the Sola scriptura principle of Lutheran and Reformed churches is inaccurate according to the Catholic doctrine.
He is the châtelain of the Château Saint-Ferriol, a late medieval - early Renaissance castle, in the village and commune of Saint-Ferriol, in the Aude département in the South of France which is listed as a Monument Historique by the French Government.
In the debate, both sides and even courts in their decisions have invoked Popper's criterion of falsifiability (see Daubert standard).
Come-outer is a phrase coined in the 1830s which denotes a person who withdraws from an established organization or who advocates political reform.
EXMNA provides emergency support and grants to ex-Muslims in dire times – from escaping abuse to finding shelter and professional assistance.
In the 2015 local elections, the DN lost the seat in Tardajos but gained a new town councillor in Cuenca de Campos, which it lost in 2019.
After an investigation, Portland State University restricted Boghossian's future work on the basis of research misconduct.
Lyrics and style In popular culture A version of the song (with altered lyrics) is used in the Wasteland 3 DLC The Battle of Steeltown (2021).
Grenzfurthner says that Razzennest forms a trilogy with Masking Threshold (2021) and Solvent (2024).
The party was a founding member of the far-right European political party, the Alliance for Peace and Freedom, which was founded in 2015 with other members including Forza Nuova and the National Democratic Party of Germany.
According to Silvia Berti, the book was originally published as La Vie et L'Esprit de Spinosa (The Life and Spirit of Spinoza), containing both a biography of Benedict Spinoza and the anti-religious essay, and was later republished under the title Traité sur les trois imposteurs.
The Boston Investigator was the first American newspaper dedicated to the philosophy of freethought.
Swift then addresses the argument that the Church, then supported by government funds, was a drain on resources that might be better spent elsewhere.
However, according to Jan Houben, the actual occurrence of human sacrifice would be difficult to prove since the relevant pieces of evidence would be small in number.
Has it not been repeatedly stated that no human, mortal brain could have invented the life of the Jewish Reformer, followed by the awful drama on Calvary?
In San Francisco, Christina has worked at the underground book publisher Last Gasp and the Lusty Lady peep show, and has performed in pornography.
The album entered at number 14 on the US Billboard 200 chart, selling 30,326 copies in its first week.
She was a speaker on the Diversity in Skepticism panel at The Amaz!ng Meeting in July 2011, the Reason Rally in 2012, and the 50th annual convention of American Atheists in 2013.
The song reached number six in Canada and topped the Canadian Adult Contemporary chart for three weeks.
Justin Chang of Variety also had mixed feelings, stating that The Mist worked as a "gross-out B-movie", falling short in its psychological depth due to "one-note characterizations" and an inconsistent tone.
Music video The music video features Crash Test Dummies as a lounge band performing to a group of old women.
It is modelled on the National Rally (RN) of France, and grew indirectly out of several defunct parties like the Spanish Circle of Friends of Europe (CEDADE) group and Juntas Españolas.
Chesney then recorded his own version of the song, and released it as the first single from his studio album Lucky Old Sun, his first project for his personal Blue Chair label (in association with BNA Records, the label to which he has been signed since 1995).
Vincent Millay, novelist Theodore Dreiser and art collector Peggy Guggenheim, who raised $4,000 for her.
Although Strait's version did not make the album's final cut, he nonetheless made his own rendition available as a digital download.
A given source may be forged or corrupted; strong indications of the originality of the source increases its reliability.
First, he responds to the argument that the abolition of Christianity would expand the liberty of conscience by arguing that if great wits could not denounce the Church, they might instead turn to the denunciation of the government, causing political unrest.
"I'm Not Jesus" is a song by the Finnish cello metal band Apocalyptica, featuring Corey Taylor from Slipknot and Stone Sour.
It was shot in and around an abandoned Los Angeles motel called the Pink Lady, was inspired by the David Fincher film Seven.
In this context, he advocates for applying value judgments in religious studies, drawing on a methodology similar to that of Ibn Hazm.
What do you know about the hundreds of suicide bombers who came here not to kill the occupation, but to kill Jews?
Riahi and Arman Riahi, Austria / Switzerland / Germany, 2013, world premiere at Copenhagen International Documentary Festival on 13 November 2013.
It was given a further digital restoration by Cohen Media Group (which currently serves as keeper of the Rohauer library, and is the copyright holder on this restored version), and was reissued to select theatres, as well as on DVD and Blu-ray, in 2013.
After a court order favored their suit in early 1926, later that year, the society instituted injunction proceedings against the Board of Education of White Plains, New York over the decision of Supreme Court Justice Ellis J.
Between 2017 and 2018, at least 4,820 Tibetan and Han Chinese monks and nuns were removed from Larung Gar, and over 7,000 dwellings and other structures were demolished, which began in 2001.
The hashtag #JenesuispasMila ("I am not Mila") was widely used, along with the #JesuisMila ("I am Mila") one.
The B-side, "Anyway You Look at It", is a ballad and appears on the compilation Rarities 1971–2003, released in 2005.
Legacy Feuerbach's critique of religion and Hegelianism had a profound and immediate impact on his contemporaries.
On October 7, 2009, a second version of this video has also appeared on the label's account, except this one is in high definition.
Harris (1979) provides a case study of how a famous experiment in psychology, Little Albert, has been distorted throughout the history of psychology, starting with the author (Watson) himself, general textbook authors, behavior therapists, and a prominent learning theorist.
This is a set of non-confrontational conversational techniques for discussing a strongly-held belief, designed to promote thoughtful reflection and open-mindedness in a participant regarding the belief.
represents a unique danger to all of us", arguing that the war on terror is really a war against Islam.
The Bus Driver's Prayer, also known as the Busman's Lord's Prayer, is a parody of the Lord's Prayer that takes the bus driver around Greater London (while avoiding further destinations).
An account based on the testimony of the brother of the publisher Caspar Fritsch, an associate of Marchand, has Levier in 1711 borrowing the original text from Benjamin Furly.
He has travelled in Central Asia and Southern Asia, researching Zoroastrianism and other ancient religions.
The video also includes various film shots of children in torn/old clothes, and behind fences or various other objects.
It reached number 26 in the UK and number 94 in the US, where it also reached number 13 on Billboard's Mainstream Rock Tracks.
Stereogum described it as "an instructional auto-tuning paean to Mama Nature", stating that it "offers some supreme springtime anthemics" and that "the vocal effects take a little getting used to, though almost immediately they do make it all the easier to dance".
Ron Zanski (two shows in 1993) and Allen Muckle (three shows in 2001) have also played with the band.
In territorial politics, it defends the unity of Spain, is staunchly nationalist and opposes Catalan independence.
Fabrications of the text eventually begin clandestine circulation, with a notable French underground edition Traité sur les trois imposteurs first appearing in 1719.
The writers noted that the site primarily highlights controversial aspects of Islamic texts and teachings and, while occasionally presenting differing traditional scholarly opinions, fails to adequately represent contemporary Muslim scholarship or progressive interpretations of controversial issues.
"I thought the message of anarchy got out in spite of Hollywood." However, Graeber went on to state: "Anarchy is about creating communities and democratic decision making.
However, the mail Freberg received from the public, including rabbis and Christian clergy, was overwhelmingly positive.
Similarly, Robert Wood, the station manager of KNXT-TV in Los Angeles (later president of CBS), cancelled a TV interview with Freberg because the record was "sacrilegious" and he did not need to hear it because he had read about it.
Its programs are much debated and sometimes the subject of angry criticism from Muslims who claim that Alhayat's content is biased and inaccurate.
In philosophy, skeptical theism is a defense of theistic or agnostic positions argued to undercut a crucial premise in atheological arguments from evil, a claim that God could have no good reasons for allowing certain types of evil.
When the project was greenlit, Nicotero, Burrell, and Darabont collaborated on the creature design at round-table meetings at CaféFX.
Murray Gordon characterizes Muhammad's approach to slavery as reformist rather than revolutionary that abolish slavery, but rather improved the conditions of slaves by urging his followers to treat their slaves humanely and free them as a way of expiating one's sins.
Simon Singh reviewing The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster for The Daily Telegraph described the Flying Spaghetti Monster as "a masterstroke, which underlined the absurdity of Intelligent Design", and applauded Henderson for "galvanis[ing] a defence of science and rationality".
Antony Clayton, "Credulity, Superstition and Fanaticism: who believed in ghosts in Hogarth’s England?" Satires of William Hogarth: EGL 310 "William Hogarth – The Medley", La Clé des Langues (en ligne), Lyon, June 2013
Judaism affirms that Jesus did not fulfill the messianic prophecies by ushering in an era of universal peace (Isaiah 2:4), building the Third Temple (Ezekiel 37:26–28), and gathering all Jews back to the Land of Israel (Isaiah 43:5–6).
Sources of criticism Historically, certain notable Catholic works were written as a criticism of a Protestant work.
The War Against Cliché is a motley heap of literary judgments that nevertheless offers us a peek at the evolution of Martin Amis.
Daniel emphasizes that for much of the medieval period, Christian understanding of Islam was based more on inherited stereotypes and polemical tradition than on direct engagement with Muslim sources.
Transhumania successfully defends itself, and Knights attempts to establish a transhuman-inspired civilization.
Reception In The New York Times Book Review, which compared Hitchens's efforts favourably with those of Alan Dershowitz (whose Letters to a Young Lawyer opened the series alongside them), Alexander Star offered a generally friendly critique.
Boghossian and Lindsay stated that they intended to demonstrate that "gender studies is crippled academically by an overriding almost-religious belief that maleness is the root of all evil", and also to highlight problems with the review processes of open-access journals.
Lyrically, the song mentions various people in history who had converted to Christianity, notably St.
The TalkOrigins Archive is a website that presents scientific perspectives on the antievolution claims of young-earth, old-earth, and "intelligent design" creationists.
It may be considered synonymous with ignosticism (also called igtheism), a term coined in 1964 by Sherwin Wine, a rabbi and a founding figure of Humanistic Judaism.
Блуждание во тьме: основные положения псевдотеософии Елены Блаватской, Генри Олькотта, Анни Безант и Чарльза Ледбитера [Wandering in the Dark: The Fundamentals of the Pseudo-theosophy by Helena Blavatsky, Henry Olcott, Annie Besant, and Charles Leadbeater] (in Russian).
Al-Azhar expressed concerns over the broadcasting of Alhayat TV, saying that the Coptic channel was offensive to Muslims and Islam.
Alhayat TV, also known as Life TV (Arabic: قناة الحياة), is an evangelical Christian Arabic-language television channel that airs in countries in North Africa, West Asia, the Middle East, America, Canada, Australia and some of Europe.
"To Kill the Child"/"Leaving Beirut" is a 2004 digital download and a Japan-only CD single written and performed by Roger Waters.
Collins has also spoken at the Veritas Forum on the relationship between science and religion and the existence of God.
He wrote that "the famous proponent of New Atheism is on a crusade against tribalism but seems oblivious to his own version of it".
On 16 November 2012 Hutsol was detained by the Federal Security Service (FSB) of the Russian Federation at Pulkovo Airport in Saint Petersburg as a person barred from entering Russia.
Winter Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Science (1952, 1957) by Martin Gardner Fair Game: The Incredible Untold Story of Scientology in Australia (2016) by Steve Cannane.
Arnold – vocals Nick Griffiths – producer, engineer See also List of anti-war songs == References ==
External links Euthyphro, in a collection of Plato's Dialogues at Standard Ebooks Euthyphro public domain audiobook at LibriVox Guides to the Socratic Dialogues, a beginner's guide
By January 2020, OPEC+ had cut oil production by 2.1 million barrels per day (bpd), with Saudi Arabia making the largest reductions in production.
dollar to make oil in Japan 4.10 times as expensive; In the same period, the Euro gained value over the U.S.
Putin stated that any country refusing to use the new payment mechanism would be in violation of their contracts and face "corresponding repercussions".
In opening developing countries to developed world food imports subsidised by Western governments, developing nations can become more dependent upon food imports if local agriculture does not improve.
In 2020, although China built some plants, globally more coal power was retired than built: the UN Secretary General has said that OECD countries should stop generating electricity from coal by 2030 and the rest of the world by 2040.
The opportunity segment can be scaled to any level depending on the specific interest of the analyst, whether at a global, country, basin, structural domain, play, license or reservoir level.
However, new extraction methods began reversing this trend beginning in the mid-2000s decade, with production reaching 10.07 million b/d in November 2017 – the highest monthly level of crude oil production in U.S.
the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Australia, and New Zealand) during the 1970s, putting an end to the overall post–World War II economic expansion.
crude inventories rose more than expected, and uncertainty about OPEC and COVID-19 lockdowns contributed to lower prices the next day.
In December 2025, Russian energy analyst Craig Kennedy said that new sanctions by the US, EU, and the UK are likely to substantially cut Russia's oil revenues in 2026, while intensifying what he described as the worst crisis in Russia's energy sector since the 1990s.
Initiating a mitigation crash program 10 years before world oil peaking helps considerably but still leaves a liquid fuels shortfall roughly a decade after the time that oil would have peaked.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
This move put immediate economic pressure on Slovakia, which relied on the pipeline for a significant portion of its gas supply and earned an estimated hundreds of millions of euros annually in transit fees from the gas flowing onward to other European destinations.
West Germany reached its production peak in 1966, Venezuela and the United States in 1970, and Iran in 1974.
Jacque Fresco posits that while certain energy resources are deemed scarce, there are other abundant sources, such as geothermal energy, which could remain virtually inexhaustible for thousands of years at current consumption rates.
The USA turned to unconventional reservoirs to achieve their goals, which had been known about for decades but had previously been too costly to be economically attractive.
Fico's government demanded the resumption of gas transit and suggested a mechanism where European, transnational entities would purchase the gas at the Russian-Ukrainian border and pay Ukraine for the transit, thereby sidestepping a direct contract renewal between Naftogaz and Gazprom.
Preexisting factors that may have contributed to the surge included housing shortages, climate impacts, and government budget deficits.
For example, electricity can be converted more efficiently than thermal energy into motion, due to electricity's lower entropy.
Gerard, then with the National Mining Association; Red Cavaney, president of the American Petroleum Institute; and Eli Bebout, an old friend of Cheney's from Wyoming who serves in the state Senate and owns an oil and drilling company.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
In the same year, results from a survey showed that 51% of EU enterprises polled invested in energy efficiency.
In 2023, approximately 32% of EU enterprises have invested in new, climate friendly business sectors and technology, to stay up to date with the green transition.
For example, if steel is being used to drill for oil or construct a nuclear power plant, should the energy input of the steel be taken into account?
On 27 August, Ukrainian media reported that the Ryazan refinery, one of the main fuel arteries to Moscow, had been struck by a powerful explosion.
The Electric Power Research Institute champions the use of smart grid features such as power control devices employing advanced sensors to coordinate the grid.
'Peak car' theory The 'peak car' hypothesis was proposed after declines in traffic during the morning peak period were observed from the mid 1990s in some places and at a national level in the United Kingdom since about 2008.
On 10 November 2024, the government began nationally implementing another round of the same type of blackout.
There are few clear examples of abiogenic methane-ethane-butane, as the same processes favor enrichment of light isotopes in all chemical reactions, whether organic or inorganic.
Impact In November 2025, Reuters reported that Russia's oil processing had fallen only 3% during the year despite the attacks, as refineries averted a steep decline by using spare capacity to offset the damage.
According to the French polling institute BVA, the approval rating for President Emmanuel Macron dropped to 36% in fall 2022 due to the energy crisis and galloping inflation in France.
The fuel crisis has had a widespread impact on Vietnamese society as people change habits and find new ways of production.
The Brunei Shell Petroleum (BSP), which is jointly owned by Shell and the Bruneian government, is the owner and operator of the offshore field.
Chile imports more than 90% of its natural gas from Argentina and depends heavily on it to generate electricity; it has shifted the focus from coal and oil towards gas, and had five gas pipelines built for the specific purpose of getting gas from Argentina.
Similarly, Prime Minister of Slovakia Robert Fico campaigned in the 2023 Slovak parliamentary election on an Eurosceptic platform, halting military aid to Ukraine and pushing for friendly relations with Russia, while criticizing NATO and the United States.
Evans; former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, and former Secretary General of OPEC Rilwanu Lukman.
He believed that if America was not adequately prepared for those demands then the foundations for the prosperity of the country would be threatened.
Central African Republic Fuel shortage and rising food prices exacerbated humanitarian assistance in the country, with some humanitarian flights having been either suspended or postponed due to high fuel price.
However, The New York Times warned the next week that the word "glut" was misleading, and that temporary surpluses had brought down prices somewhat, but prices were still well above pre-energy crisis levels.
Gernot Wagner argued that the benefits of the Act would likely not be felt before the 2024 election, but that the act is a great long-term strategy to decouple from volatile energy markets that drive inflation.
Amounts listed below, in billions of barrels, are the estimated ultimate recoverable petroleum resources (proved reserves plus cumulative production also abbreviated as URR), given historical production and current extraction technology.
This did not prove to be the case: the United States, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Pakistan, and West Germany all refused to make their technicians available to the nationalized Iranian industry.
This new dock worked alongside its larger sister dock, which could handle ships up to 1,200 tonnes, both moored in the Belait River.
The EIA estimates global coal-to-liquids production will climb to 600,000 bbl/d (95,000 m3/d) in 2015 and 2,400,000 bbl/d (380,000 m3/d) in 2030.
Implications to peak oil Peak Oil derives from the Hubbert peak theory, which theorizes that production of any finite resource over time will have roughly inverse curves before and after the peak of the resource's production (creating an approximately bell shaped curve).
President Obama made strict guidelines to standardize fuel economy in vehicles, especially passenger vehicles.
In January 1980, he issued the Carter Doctrine, declaring: "An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States".
All international transportation is grounded, including logistics, meaning resources such as steel, food, medical supplies, and trash are not being moved.
The Obama administration took steps to ensure that America's need for oil would also safeguard the protection of the environment as well.
References Argentina: crisis energética (26 March 2004) (in Spanish) Argentina teme crisis energética (9 May 2005) (in Spanish) Peligro...
After the withdrawal of the British workers in the autumn of 1951, the Iranians felt confident that they could easily hire non-British technicians to run the industry and then quickly train their own nationals to replace them.
According to the FAO, the average minimum daily energy requirement is about 1,800 kilocalories (7,500 kJ) per person.
Leaders are dismissive of system theories that conclude that blackouts are inevitable, but do agree that the basic operation of the grid must be changed.
Production started to increase again in 2009, spurred by high gold prices, and achieved record new highs each year in 2012, 2013, and 2014, when production reached 2,990 tonnes.
Bardi concluded that rapid collapse is not a flaw, or "bug" as he terms it, but a "varied and ubiquitous phenomena" with multiple causes and resultant pathways.
Oxygen levels shoot back up after the water molecules are split into hydrogen and oxygen due to the sun's increased ultraviolet radiation, and the lighter hydrogen escapes to space.
The "Seneca effect" model is related to the "World3" model from the 1972 report The Limits to Growth, issued by the Club of Rome.
Champion-1 Champion-7 (Main Complex Platform) Champion-11 Champion-41 Champion-37 Champion-38 Champion-39 Gallery == References ==
It was capable of handling vessels up to 100 feet (30 m) long and weighing 100 tonnes (98 long tons; 110 short tons).
production curve deviates from Hubbert's 1956 curve in significant ways: When oil surpluses created a glut on the market and low prices began causing demand and production curves to rise, regulatory agencies such as the Texas Railroad Commission stepped in to restrain production.
Many large economies, like the EU, US and China, were unable to support 2005 levels of growth, and China almost fell into its own financial crisis during its 2015 stock market bubble and crash.
On the following day, the organisation issued a statement stating that "The fuel is still not going to the pumps that need it most in London and the South East...
For example, one 24-year-old with a car moved to Washington, D.C., for work purposes but did not take her car, and she explained: I don't need (my car).
The authorities announced widespread closures of schools, universities, and government offices, and shopping centers in the capital Tehran and 17 Iranian provinces to save energy.
However, a lack of refining capacity would only seem to explain high gasoline prices, not high crude oil prices.
Federal Reserve policy helped prices fall the next week, though they rose to end the week due to positive U.S.
The United States imported 28 percent of its oil in 1982 and 1983, down from 46.5 percent in 1977, due to lower consumption.
The theory is disputed by the UK Department for Transport, which predicts that road traffic in the United Kingdom will grow by 50% by 2036, and Professor Stephen Glaister, Director of the RAC Foundation, who say traffic will start increasing again as the economy improves.
Saad al-Kaabi, Qatar's minister of state for energy affairs, described the price war as a "very big mistake" in a June 2020 interview.
Meanwhile, Simmons' Twilight in the Desert seemed to Tierney to be cut from the same doom-and-gloom cloth as Paul R.
The glut directed Algeria into an economic recession and directly influenced the politics: the authoritarian regime of Chadli Bendjedid had to compromise with Islamic opposition in 1984 and start economic reforms dismantling socialism in 1987.
Furthermore, "All twelve people were arrested for breaching the legal notice by driving at under 30 mph for a prolonged amount of time." was said.
The study says that "while violent events, such as global war or natural catastrophic events, are of immediate concern to everyone, a relatively slow consumption of the planetary resources may be not perceived as strongly as a mortal danger for the human civilization".
Another mitigation measure is the setup of a cache of secure fuel reserves like the United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve, in case of national emergency.
On 30 July, the Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Ministry expressed willingness to join talks with the European Commission in order to maintain cooperation with Hungary and Slovakia.
These announcements caused increases in world gas prices, which analysts said was a part of the Iranian Government's plan to apply pressure on the world to stop the war.
The war has also affected some exports, with ships taking longer to reach their destination, so the Kenya Ports Authority has prioritised the export of perishable products such as tea, flowers, and avocados.
The Hubbert curve is the first derivative of a logistic function, which has been used for modeling the depletion of crude oil in particular, the depletion of finite mineral resources in general and also population growth patterns.
Thus, furthering the spread of the transition movement while networking related organizations, projects, ideas and activities.
Prime Minister of Slovakia Robert Fico held a telephone conversation with Prime Minister of Ukraine Denys Shmyhal where he strongly asserted that Slovakia would not allow itself to become a "hostage" to Ukrainian-Russian relations.
The 2025 Slovakia–Ukraine gas dispute was a major diplomatic and energy security crisis that began on January 1, 2025, following the expiration of the five-year natural gas transit contract between the Russian state-owned energy company Gazprom and Ukraine's Naftogaz.
Economists state that for prices to return to pre-pandemic levels a deflationary period would be required, which is usually associated with recession.
He called the winter’s outcome “unacceptable” and vowed to “strive to move out of this situation next year” .
King Hubbert's 1956 presentation to the American Petroleum Institute, as an idealized symmetric curve, during his tenure at the Shell Oil Company.
While the possibility of restricting domestic usage was considered, it was deemed unnecessary and disruptive.
The list of former politicians who endorse this book (and, arguably, by extension, the Rimini Protocol) are as follows: Andrew McNamara, MP, Parliament of Queensland, Australia; Roscoe G.
This representation of 'technology' also prevails in standard mainstream economics textbooks on the subject.
Their final agreement was a commitment to tabulate every closing price-per-barrel of oil for each market day of 2010, then average out those prices for the entire year from January 1 through December 31, adjusted for inflation to 2005 prices.
The test is, when the need is there, whether we will use the capacity or not and I can assure you we will.
The record-high energy prices were driven by a global surge in demand as the world quit the economic recession caused by COVID-19 pandemic, particularly due to strong energy demand in Asia.
Though farmers were now incentivized to turn a profit on their crops, the markets they participated in were still heavily regulated and taxed.
after five up days, oil fell more than 4 percent on January 15 in response to a conflict with Iran being less likely, meaning no disruptions to oil.
By 2008, exports of everything but oil "collapsed" and, in 2012, the World Bank explained that Venezuela's economy is "extremely vulnerable" to changes in oil prices since in 2012.
He responded by calling a snap election on 28 February 1974 in what he saw as an opportunity for the electorate to show the miners that the government – and not the miners or the unions – were responsible for running the country.
Economic growth was re-established in 1975 as the recession's end was declared, but Britain's economy remained shaky.
The country already lived with a deficient and inefficient system and many business reported complaints about the lack of management and communication from the electrical companies.
Firzli, writing in a Saudi Arabian journal World Pensions Forum, warned that the escalating oversupply could have durably negative economic consequences for all Gulf Cooperation Council member states.
According to an analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, the largest European importers of Russian liquefied natural gas in July 2025 were France, Belgium and Spain.
For example, at a growth rate of 2% per year, oil consumption would double approximately every 34.65 years.
The BBC reported on 7 September 2005 that the group responsible for the blockades in September 2000 was threatening to stage protests at oil refineries from 0600 BST on 14 September 2005 unless reductions in fuel duty were made.
Iraq launches several conventional missiles at Kuwait, but this has no effect on Kuwaiti oil production.
Alternately, generating capacity may temporarily decrease below demand due to power station outages or loss of renewable capacity due to the wind dropping or the sun shining less.
The artificial transfer of heat and pressure require the use of large volumes of fresh water creating supply and disposal issues.
It would be some consolation for the feebleness of our selves and our works, if all things should perish as slowly as they come into being; but as it is, increases are of sluggish growth, but the way to ruin is rapid.
After peak oil, according to the Hubbert Peak Theory, the rate of oil production on Earth would enter a terminal decline.
The pipeline was shut down on September 16, and federal regulators began investigating the cause of the leak.
As a result, the next day, Serebrian accused Transnistria of having a "genocidal attitude" towards the civilians on the left bank of the Dniester, "whom they are holding captive".
For example, funding for research into inertial confinement fusion technology increased during the 1970s.
On January 26, 2008, Dushanbe cut power to places of entertainment (including restaurants, shops, pharmacies, markets, and public bathhouses), causing many to close until spring.
Popular alternatives are human-powered transport, public transport, electric vehicles, and biofuels.
Russian analyst Yuri Baranchik declared in his channel that it would be necessary to take Mykolaiv and Odesa from Ukraine to form a land corridor with Transnistria and "restore justice and legality" in Transnistria and Moldova.
This includes the assets of oil companies." Invitees included Egypt, Syria, Kuwait, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Bahrain, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar.
World Without Oil This episode hypothesizes a total oil depletion scenario, where almost all oil on Earth simply vanishes in one night, leaving behind only oil that has already been extracted, and products refined from oil, such as gasoline and diesel.
Current production is for 2025, except when the year is specifically provided along with the production figure.
Some deliveries commenced from the refineries and the police supplied escorts as required to ensure that tankers could move.
2000s-2010s In 2006, Brunei reached its peak of production with 220,000 b/d to become the third largest producer of oil and gas in Asia but the depletion of the fields generated the decline of production down to 141,000 b/d in 2012.
Conventional reservoir Oil and gas are generated naturally at depths of around 4 or 5 km below Earth’s surface.
Projections A number of industry petroleum geologists, scientists, and economists were listed with their global peak production projection.
Return to the use of coal as a primary source The theory proposes that due to the predominance of one nation the rest of the world will follow the same sequence in the implementation of a resource as a primary source.
Iran In November 1978, a strike by 37,000 workers at Iran's nationalized oil refineries reduced production from 6 million barrels (950,000 m3) per day to about 1.5 million barrels (240,000 m3).
Ultra low permeability reservoirs exhibit a half slope on a log-plot of flow-rates against time believed to be caused by drainage from matrix surfaces into adjoining fractures.
The Cuban government was also forced to contract out more lucrative economic and tourism deals with various Western European and South American nations in an attempt to earn the foreign currency necessary to replace the lost Soviet petroleum via the international markets.
An international appeal was made by the United Nations, NGOs, and the Red Cross and Red Crescent for around US$25 million to assist the government.
Emission output Like other non-combustion energy storage technologies, a liquid nitrogen vehicle displaces the emission source from the vehicle's tail pipe to the central electrical generating plant.
On 13 October, Asda reported not having had a shortage of fuel for a week, and by 22 October the BBC reported that stock levels in service station storage tanks were at their highest levels since May.
LN2 Vehicle 1 Archived 2007-02-05 at the Wayback Machine, a liquid nitrogen–powered car using a Cryogenic Heat Engine at the University of North Texas.
Ukrainian officials accused Fico of prioritizing ties with Moscow over European unity and the interests of the Slovak people.
Between February and May the cuts amounted to an average of 9.5 million m3 a day, about 13% of industrial demand, and by the end of May they grew to a maximum of 22 million m3.
Before the availability of computers, decline curve analysis was performed by hand on semi-log plot paper.
Natural gas is used simply because it is the cheapest currently available source of hydrogen; were that to change, other sources, such as electrolysis powered by solar energy, could be used to provide the hydrogen for creating fertilizer.
Because mitigation can reduce the use of traditional petroleum sources, it can also affect the timing of peak oil and the shape of the Hubbert curve.
Others advocate greater use of electronically controlled high-voltage direct current (HVDC) firebreaks to prevent disturbances from cascading across AC lines in a wide area grid.
In the following month, Brent prices fell approximately 22%, constituting the largest monthly loss in a decade, ending the month at $59.46 per barrel on 30 November.
This is mainly due to "energy invested" varying depending on technology, methodology, and system boundary assumptions, resulting in a range from a maximum of 2000 kWh/m2 of module area down to a minimum of 300 kWh/m2, with a median value of 585 kWh/m2 according to a meta-study from 2013.
The inflationary recession, combined with an expansionary government fiscal policy and a generous collective wage agreement among unions in 1974–1976, put Sweden on a highly inflationary path: the price index quintupled between 1972 and 1995.
This may be due to the availability of more data and/or the improved matching between predicted and actual production performance.
When conditions were right—a lack of oxygen for decomposition, and sufficient depth and temperature of burial—these organic remains were converted into petroleum compounds, while the sediment accompanying them was converted into sandstone, siltstone, and other porous sedimentary rock.
Russia warned that usage of the pipeline could be completely suspended because of problems with the repairment.
The United States welcomes the move, but says that it will maintain economic sanctions until it sees evidence of compliance.
Suppliers then focused on supply of standard grades, creating extended pressure on the supply of the premium grades which some vehicles require.
Liquid nitrogen is not available in public refueling stations; however, there are distribution systems in place at most welding gas suppliers and liquid nitrogen is an abundant by-product of liquid oxygen production.
The curve is the main component of Hubbert peak theory, which has led to the rise of peak oil concerns.
Releasing petrol station reserves - After the demand for petrol went high the Ministry of Petroleum ordered fuel stations to give put from their reserves without any hesitation.
Talks collapse after nations fail to decide whether agenda should focus on oil/energy issues or have a broader economic scope.
The following issues are considered below: The role of technology; resource decoupling and the rebound effect; a declining-state economy; the possibility of having capitalism without growth; and the possibility of pushing some of the terrestrial limits into outer space.
The consortium included Standard Oil of New Jersey, Standard Oil of California, SOCONY-Vacuum, the Texas Company, Gulf, Royal Dutch-Shell, the Compagnie Francaise de Petroles, and the AIOC.
Some Arab countries encouraged the oil companies to circumvent the embargo, as the Amir of Kuwait even proposed to the US ambassador that companies simply alter shipping manifests to ship oil to prohibited countries.
Some of those points include lifting development restrictions on federal lands and waters, ending permitting obstruction on natural gas projects, revising the National Environmental Policy Act process to reduce some of the "bureaucracy" placed on energy projects, among other suggestions.
Other stock markets were similarly affected, with the S&P 500 contracting by 7.6% and the NASDAQ Composite contracting by 7.2%.
Meteorites are believed to represent the major composition of material from which the Earth was formed.
villages (Kinsale), neighbourhoods of cities (Portobello, Edinburgh), through council districts (Penwith) to cities and city boroughs (Brixton).
By January 2016, the OPEC Reference Basket fell to US$22.48/bbl – less than one-sixth of its record from July 2008 ($140.73), and back below the April 2003 starting point ($23.27) of its historic run-up.
Production decline curve analysis is important in determining the value in oil and gas wells in oil and gas economics.
An amount of 8,500 barrels were purchased from the spot market whereas the price have been concealed from the public.
The report discusses some existing problems and potential risks and asks the Brazilian government for caution to avoid jeopardizing its environmental and social sustainability.
September 5: Conference of less developed countries approves forming "producers' associations," calls for withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied Arab lands.
Major initiatives and legislation China China has pledged to become carbon neutral by 2060, which would need a just transition for over 3 million workers in the coal-mining and power industry.
Influences Influences include permaculture concepts as described in Bill Mollison’s Permaculture, a Designers Manual (1988) and David Holmgren’s Permaculture: Principles and Pathways Beyond Sustainability (2003), as well as David Fleming's work on community, culture and resilience.
Egret oil field, also known as Egret Field, is a complex oil and gas field in the South China Sea and 45 km north-west of Seria, Belait District, Brunei.
See also Price of petroleum 2000s energy crisis References External links https://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/23/opinion/23tierney.html http://www.twilightinthedesert.com/ http://www.theoildrum.com/ – The Oil Drum
OAPEC countries cut production of oil and placed an embargo on oil exports to the United States after Richard Nixon requested $2.2 billion to support Israel in the war after learning that the Soviet Union, was aiding Syria and Egypt in the war.
Various curfews with the intention of increasing energy conservation may be initiated to reduce consumption.
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
Oil shale reserves (perhaps 3 trillion barrels (4.8×1011 m3)) and coal reserves, both of which can be converted to liquid petroleum, are not included in this chart.
So far a part of the changes ultimately requested by Hirsch for the US have been already implemented in Europe (and cum grano salis in Asia).
"Sustainable energy system with zero emissions of GHG for cities and countries." Energy and Buildings 98 (2015): 27-33.
Moreover, it was predicted that the oil field would produce an estimated of 30 million barrels for 15–20 years.
The South African Government has said that there was no shortage of fuel in the country, but prices have increased and some petrol stations have introduced their own rationing of diesel.
have these really outdated economic principles inherited from the Industrial Revolution, when the world was indeed large and the scope for Man’s activities were at that time more or less infinite.
In April 2008, Pradeep Mitra, World Bank chief economist for Europe and Central Asia, issued an uncharacteristic statement, urging the worse-hit countries to spend more on social assistance and "top up" their social programs.
It also reminded readers that "Investment can flood into the oil market without driving up prices because speculators are not buying any actual crude...
The two worst crises of this period were the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 oil crisis, when, respectively, the Yom Kippur War and the Iranian Revolution triggered interruptions in Middle Eastern oil exports.
Others have used similar but non-symmetrical equations which may provide better a fit to empirical production data.
See also Coal depletion Decline curve analysis Energy law Gas depletion Oil megaprojects Peak oil Peak water Further reading Kenneth S.
Most of the new continent is uninhabitable due to thin air, but the former ocean floor has sufficient air pressure for human life.
In Crimea, Russian occupation officials limited gasoline sales to 20 liters per customer and imposed price caps.
By September 17, the affected regions began experiencing gas shortages due to the leak and panic buying.
In general, the technical and commercial risk associated with discrete conventional reservoirs can be reduced using relatively inexpensive remote techniques such as reflection seismology and extracted with relatively few appraisal and development wells.
Gas was $4.16.Iran continued to limit traffic in the Strait of Hormuz, causing WTI to rise more than 3 percent to $97.87, while Brent finished at $95.92, up more than 1 percent.
The price as of the initial publishing of this article—May 10, 2008—was $125.96; the record high of $147 in July 2008 was attributed by some to a weak U.S.
The Aintree forecourt attendant Farhaan Mohammed, 21, said expected petrol to have run out by the end of trading and that there was no guarantee from Esso of more fuel.
Phosphorus supplies affect agricultural output which in turn limits alternative fuels such as biodiesel and ethanol.
The 1967 oil embargo was the main reason for the formation of OAPEC, which would provide a forum for the discussion of using oil politically.
FTC chair Lina Khan said "dominant firms used this moment to come out ahead at the expense of their competitors and the communities they serve." Although the pace of grocery price increases had abated since the 2022 surge, prices had not since fallen overall by 2024.
External links Robert Rapier: Does the Hubbert Linearization Ever Work?, The Oil Drum, 2007-03-22 David Rutledge: Energy Supplies and Climate, Caltech, 2019 - on curve fits to the production history (including excel data on historic coal production and logit fits) == References ==
In 1979, the amount of oil sold in the United States was only 3.5 percent less than the record set for oil sold in 1978.
market must report proved reserves under the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reporting requirements which shares many elements with PRMS.
After an embargo on Russian oil shipments and a price cap on Russian crude went into effect on December 6, 2022, crude prices climbed considerably as some commodity traders bet on reduced supply globally.
Detroit was not well prepared for the sudden rise in fuel prices, and imported brands, primarily the Asian models, which were mass-marketed and had a lower manufacturing cost as opposed to British and West German brands.
Dushanbe residents reported wearing several jackets and overcoats to sleep and all family members sleeping under a single blanket to share warmth.
However, many of the biofuels that are currently being supplied have been criticised for their adverse impacts on the natural environment, food security, and land use.
The inflation-adjusted real 2004 dollar value of oil fell from an average of $78.2 in 1981 to an average of $26.8 per barrel in 1986.
That day the country was placed on the first phase, watchful, with the public advised to use fuel cautiously.
The crisis was caused by a variety of economic factors, including the rapid post-pandemic economic rebound that outpaced energy supply, and escalated into a widespread global energy crisis.
The Advisory Board was critical in efficiently apportioning limited tanker resources and managing the distribution of the limited oil resources.
See also Fuel protests in the United Kingdom 2011 United Kingdom public sector strikes 2021 United Kingdom fuel supply crisis == References ==
News that the Royal Navy was intercepting tankers carrying Iranian oil scared off other tankers and effectively shut down oil exports from Iran.
Iran’s subsidized fuel, which is much cheaper than in neighboring countries, makes it highly attractive to smugglers.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
Extraction for conventional oil fields fell after 1970, but started to recover and reached a lower secondary peak in 1988.
He founded the Kyoto Moain (later Kyoto Prefectural School for the Blind and Kyoto Prefectural School for the Deaf) in 1878, and developed the origins of Japanese Sign Language.
At the time, Lexington used exclusively oral education, but the students used sign language when instructors were not present.
He was an active worker in connection with the local institutions of Doncaster, and was a member of the committee for the establishment of a public free library for the town.
In 1834, his parents sent him at eight years of age to Institutet för dövstumma och blinda, Manillaskolan ('the Institute for the deaf-mute and blind', 'the Manilla School') in Stockholm.
She received intensive hearing and speech instruction through a partnership between home and school.
Malm knew there must be more potential deaf students, so he placed an advertisement for the school in the newspaper Borgå Tidning and later requested the Diocese of Porvoo to determine the number of deaf people in the country: 1,466, with 602 under the age of 20.
Newman was awarded on honorary doctor of letters degree by Gallaudet University in 1978 in recognition of his extensive advocacy efforts as an educator and writer.
In the end, he was unsuccessful as Cygnaeus believed it would set back the plan for public schooling.
Social inclusion of people with hearing disabilities In 1918 she was assigned as principal of the National School for the Deaf-Mutes.
References External links Official website Гость программы Борис Михайлович Бим-Бад, академик Российской Академии образования, педагог.
A collection of the most remarkable definitions and answers of Massieu and Clerc, deaf and dumb, to the various questions put to them, at the public lectures of the Abbé Sicard, in London.
Interviewed in 2016, he said: "I've had many jobs working in removals, gyms, swimming pools, security, etc, but now I make my living off teaching and touring my poetry...
His concern for providing a better education would begin the foundations of the Central Institute for the Deaf (CID).
Greene was mentioned in the City of Belleville's Heritage walking guide in recognition of his work in Deaf Education.
Career Rosen started her career as a rehabilitation counselor at the Department of Vocational Rehabilitation, working there from 1964 to 1966.
Awards and honors Gallaudet Distinguished Professor of the Year (1996) Professor Emerita at Gallaudet University Edward Miner Gallaudet Award (1992) == References ==
Through this, he argued that people with hearing disabilities are not "handicapped." This was an idea that was widely applauded and set the precedent for his struggles for the deaf community.
Biography Early life and education Helene Jarmer became deaf at the age of two as the result of an auto accident.
He also began doing computer programming and set up his own bulletin board system, as well as building computers for other deafblind people, instructing them in how to use adaptive technology.
One of six deaf siblings, he was denied schooling until age thirteen when he met Abbé Sicard, who enrolled him in the Institute national des jeunes sourds de Bordeaux-Gradignan, the Bordeaux School for Deaf Children.
He then tried other employment, but his services were again sought by the committee of the institution, when in a difficulty on the failure of their Swiss-born master to control the pupils.
In support of this contention, he sent an essay by one of his students, Bernhard Brill, and said that he doubted whether any non-disabled person "could match his lucid and incisive style." Deutsch became director when the school was transferred to Vienna in 1852.
In 1929, the second school building was constructed on South Euclid Avenue where CID expanded into adult auditory rehabilitation.
At this time the training standards for teachers of the deaf were raised, requiring two years of pre-professional college education and a two-year professional curriculum, to ensure the highest quality education possible for their deaf students.
In negotiations to form a new government, it was agreed that Munyenyembe would take on the speakership.
Goldstein had many memories of his friendship with Keller, but was always "particularly pleased" to recount the story detailing how he taught her to Fox Trot at a ball in Boston.
He entered cabinet just a few years later, becoming Minister for Information and Broadcasting in the government of Hastings Banda.
This organisation founded the Mission Church in Oak Road, Southampton (now demolished), for the continuation of their work in 1891.
In 1912, she participated in a delegation to discuss these ideas with the Minister for Public Instruction, but they were unsuccessful.
She graduated from the Maryland School for the Deaf and also went on to teach in that school for three years.
Previously, he served as President of the National Technical Institute for the Deaf and Vice President and Dean of Rochester Institute of Technology.
She also started to teach literacy classes to help address the number of students coming to the centre who were illiterate.
She wrote the book Life and Education of Laura Dewey Bridgman, the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind Girl (1884) about her experiences teaching Bridgman.
The Abbé Sicard managed to escape any serious harm in the political troubles of 1792, and became a member of the Institute in 1795, but the value of his educational work was hardly recognized till shortly before his death at Paris.
They soon encouraged their friends, Miss Hellman and Miss Humble, to start a Sunday school in Vaasa.
He was superintendent at the Indiana School for the Deaf (1845–1852) and the Louisiana School for the Deaf (1853–1860).
Borg made a trip to Portugal in 1823–1828, where he founded a school for the deaf; thereby Portugal was given the same manual alphabet as Sweden.
The facial scar later provided the basis for his name sign, performed with the manual alphabet for "U" (thumb out), with the pads of the two fingers stroked twice downward on the right cheek.
Frederick John Rose (21 September 1831 – 1 December 1920) was the Headmaster-Superintendent of Victorian School for Deaf Children (formerly the Victorian Deaf and Dumb Institution) from 1860 to 1891.
She was the Coordinator of Minority Achievement and Multicultural Program for Pre-college Programs at Gallaudet University.
The Clarke School's policy was to teach lip reading rather than sign language, which Goodhue agreed was beneficial for the students as it allowed them to participate in society.
Peter Atke Castberg (3 August 1779 – 30 April 1823) was a Danish professor and medical doctor who founded modern deaf education in Denmark.
His parents read lessons to him in the evenings and he completed assignments with a portable typewriter.
Louis Laurent Marie Clerc (French: [lɔʁɑ̃ klɛʁ]; 26 December 1785 – 18 July 1869) was a French teacher called "The Apostle of the Deaf in America" and was regarded as the most renowned deaf person in American deaf history.
Solomon is an American academic and president of the National Technical Institute for the Deaf whose teaching focuses on bringing deaf and hard-of-hearing students into the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
His father, Ajay, wrote to Perkins School for the Blind, and with the financial help of a scholarship to the school, friends and relatives raised the money to send him to the United States.
Recognition In 2006, Vietnam Women's Union named Xậm "the woman who touched the heart of Vietnam" due to her efforts to get an education in light of her disability.
The relevant law was enacted by Christian IX on 17 April 1807, and the education of 10 students thus officially began at Det Kongelige Døvstumme-Institut i Kjøbenhavn ('the Royal Institute for the Deaf-Mute in Copenhagen').
Books Life at My Fingertips, (1958) Doubleday City of the Heart (poetry), (1966) Taplinger Shared Beauty (poetry), (1982) Portal Press References Helen Keller National Center - Robert Smithdas
Among those who gave positive reviews of The Perseverance, Kaveh Akbar said: "It's magic, the way this poet is able to bring together so much — deafness, race, masculinity, a mother's dementia, a father's demise — with such dexterity.
She attended a school for hard-of-hearing students after having been categorized by physicians as being hard of hearing.
Lessons for the Instruction of Deaf and Dumb Children in Speaking, Lip-Reading, Reading, and Writing.
In 2011 he published a history of the World Federation of the Deaf featuring achievements of the Deaf community and national organizations of the Deaf around the globe.
The general address of European schools was, American & Colonial Exchange, Carlton Street, Regent Street, S.
On 3 September 2012, Fianna Fáil and Sinn Féin tabled a motion of no confidence in Minister for Health James Reilly, after yet more cuts in the health service.
She was described as a tender mother to her students, as one of her goals with the school had been to see to their emotional needs as well.
Victor of Aveyron Itard is known as an educator of the deaf, and tried his educational theories in the celebrated case of Victor of Aveyron, dramatized in the 1970 motion picture The Wild Child directed by François Truffaut, who also played Itard.
He remained the institution's director until his death, training a generation of educators in the Oralist system.
It was not a textbook, but, in effect, an essay showing the importance of prompt attention in order that they may understand and make themselves understood in conversation.
He died at Doncaster 27 May 1874, and his old pupils erected a mural tablet to his memory in the institution where he had laboured so long.
He went on to teach at Gallaudet College, before moving to the Rochester Institute of Technology where he helped found the National Technical Institute for the Deaf (NTID).
Antonio Magarotto (30 June 1891 in Pojana Maggiore – 10 May 1966 in Rome) was an Italian educator, founder of the Ente Nazionale Sordi (ENS) and rector of the Padua Deaf institute.
Beatification process The cause for beatification commenced in 1960 under Pope John XXIII and Provolo became titled as a Servant of God; the informative process was launched in Verona to collect documentation and these were sent to the Congregation for Rites for further investigation.
His services to The Deaf Way conference also helped in shaping the deaf culture and setting the precedent for the emerging field of deaf studies.
In 2017, an Abenaki educator lobbied the Vermont Department of Libraries to pull Fisher's name from the children's literature award, which was created in the state over half a century ago.
"On Deaf-mutes, the Strange, and the Modern Deaf Self," in Culturally Affirming Psychotherapy with Deaf Persons, N.
From 1887 to 1891, she attended the local council school and then continued her education as a pupil-teacher at the Midland Deaf and Dumb Institution, later known as the Royal Institute for the Deaf and Dumb in her hometown.
Prior to the establishment of primary schooling in the late 1800s, Alopaeus' goal was to integrate deaf education with public education.
Life Early life Watson was educated in Hackney, London at the school of his uncle, Thomas Braidwood, and from 1784 he worked at the school.
He is remembered as one of the most ardent and visible advocates of American Sign Language (ASL) and was one of the first people to film ASL.
The award is an annual tribute to recognise a woman who has overcome challenges to accomplish extraordinary achievements that are both meaningful and beneficial to society.
Having grown up Deaf, I came to learn Sign Language relatively late, at the age of 23, while I was a graduate student at the University of Iowa.
Impressed with the manual method, Gallaudet studied teaching methodology under Sicard, learning sign language from Massieu and Clerc, who were both highly educated graduates of the school.
He married Benjamine Walgerda Heiberg (1845–1926) on 16 September 1869, the daughter of Caspar Cappelen Heiberg (1814–1855) and Emilie Christine Hansine Bjertnæs (1824–1865).
When opened on April 15, 1817, it was called the "Connecticut Asylum (at Hartford) for the Education and Instruction of Deaf and Dumb Persons", but it is now known as the American School for the Deaf.
This event launched Iosif's active and profound research into the particularities of the Russian Sign Language.
When Gorman returned to Australia, he took up a post at Monash University as a research fellow and lecturer in special education.
She continued to teach Sunday school even after later leaving the Baptist church for the Fria missionsförbundet.
His father was a skilled sailor and Gerry enjoyed boating with him from around 2 years old in Largs, Rhu and Inverkip.
In 1991, Zaitseva completed an internship in the United Kingdom at the University of Bristol's Centre for the Study of Deafness, where she studied bilingual approaches to Deaf education and participated in a project to teach Russian Sign Language to hearing people.
At age sixteen Peet passed the entrance exam for Harvard University but decided to travel with her father as his personal secretary.
Panara was very interested in the theater and developed some of the first plays for deaf actors and audiences.
After his return, Castberg sent a report to the government to draw attention to the need to establish an education establishment for the deaf.
Cesare Magarotto (1917–2006) was one of the founders of World Federation of the Deaf (WFD), its first General Secretary (1951–1987) and the son of Antonio Magarotto, the founder of the Italian National Agency for the Deaf (ENS).
In that role she was a frequent representative for the American Deaf community, including providing her expertise on the topic of cochlear implants for the show 60 Minutes in 1992.
Alan Hurwitz (born September 17, 1942) is an American educator who served as the tenth President of Gallaudet University from 2010 to 2015.
During World War II, she temporarily joined the military so she could help newly deafened soldiers injured in the war.
(with others) (1906) A Montessori Mother (1912) A Montessori Manual (1913) Mothers and Children (1914) Self-Reliance 1916 Life of Christ 1923 (by Giovanni Papini, freely trans.
Career Itard, without a university education and working at a Marseilles bank, was forced to enter the army during the French Revolution, but presented himself as a physician at that time.
His hearing began to fail at the end of high school and by his sophomore year in college he was completely deaf.
After that she taught for eleven years at the National Institute for the Deaf (Bundesinstitut für Gehörlosenbildung).
The next year, in 1885, he accepted a teaching position at the Colorado School for the Deaf, where he worked for seventeen years.
Bim-Bad, who had an EdD, was a professor and member of the International Philosophical and Cosmological Society.
Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet died in Hartford on September 10, 1851, aged 63, and was buried in Hartford's Cedar Hill Cemetery.
Seeing this, the Prior Provincial of the Discalced Carmelite friars permitted a postponement of her funeral for another 15 days.
(Paris: Charles Dounoil, 1873) Histoire et statistique de l’éducation des sourds-muets (Paris: chez l’auteur, 1836) Notice sur la vie et les ouvrages d’Auguste Bébian (Paris: J.
He was also the recipient of the Anne Sullivan Gold Medal Award, offered for outstanding service to the deafblind, and the Helen Keller Gold Medal for Literary Excellence.
Eventually following that call, on 1 September 1764, she formally submitted her request for admission to the assembled Discalced Carmelite nuns of the Monastery of St.
While attending graduate school, she learned American Sign Language (ASL) and became involved with the Deaf community.
Kanizsai, however, succeeded in keeping together his class of disabled children until the end of the war.
Goh has been a member of inclusive orchestra The Purple Symphony since 2015, wherein she plays the marimba.
He nevertheless gained a half-year stay at the school, impressing the authorities with his command of French orthography.
He is the second deaf Hispanic/Latino to receive a doctorate degree and the first to receive a doctorate from Gallaudet University.
Following her graduation, Xậm returned to the Ho Chi Minh City Vocational Centre for People with Disabilities and Orphans, where she started work as a librarian.
Tashiro Furukawa (古河太四郎, Furukawa Tashirō; March 27, 1845 – December 26, 1907) was a Japanese educator.
L'Épée died at the beginning of the French Revolution in 1789, and his tomb is in the Church of Saint Roch in Paris.
President Jordan became president of the university on March 13, 1988, after the Deaf President Now protest.
In 1942, she moved to New York, where she studied with the Viennese speech therapist and psychologist Emil Fröschels, and got to know the unisensory method.
In 1933, Fitzgerald moved to the Georgia School for the Deaf in Cave Spring and the following year took a post at the Texas School for the Deaf in Austin, where she remained for three years.
His parents were middle class and well educated, but struggled to find appropriate educational opportunities for their son.
From the age of two, he was coached in speech and lip reading by two specialised teachers: Dr Henriette Hoffer (from the Centre Médico-Pédagogique in Paris) and Doreen Hugo (of the Victorian Deaf and Dumb Institution), with whom he learnt to lip-read and speak in both English and French.
1909), was an American educator and writer best known as a teacher of Laura Bridgman, at the Perkins Institute for the Blind.
His efforts helped in increasing the employability of deaf teachers in deaf schools and promoting deaf leadership in both national and international educational organizations.
During her administration, a complete overhaul of the curriculum was made, shifting the emphasis from earlier elementary education to a focus on acquiring practical skills, especially speaking skills and learning a trade.
This made it possible for her to acquire a proper building for the school in 1866, and by 1872 the school was no longer in debt and reportedly filled a great need: in 1863, she had been forced to deny 75 students because of the costs.
Ammons became the 7th president of CISS in 2003, serving first as a stand-in President until 2005 following the death of the existing president, John Michael Lovett.
During her brief life of quiet service in the monastery, she came to be revered for her mystical gifts.
Malm fought for more support and his efforts were noted by Johan Vilhelm Snellman in the Swedish-language newspaper Saima.
Philipp Boltovsky, a husband and father of two, is a professional clarinetist and singer who performed with the Red Army Choir at the 2018 Olympics.
Following the example of l'Abbé de l'Épée founded by Charles-Michel de l'Épée in Paris, in 1809 he founded Allmänna institutet för döfstumma och blinda å Manilla (Public Institute of the Blind and Deaf at Manilla; Manillaskolan).
Both she and her brother were born deaf to deaf parents; they were raised learning American Sign Language and English.
The executive board at the deaf school in Trondheim was sceptical towards Balchen, apparently because of his lack of religious education.
He is a former president of the National Association of the Deaf (NAD), and has traveled and lectured extensively nationally and internationally.
The Memorial Cyclopedia of the Twentieth Century: Comprising Memoirs of Men and Women who Have Been Instrumental in the Progress of the Industries, Professions, Arts, Literature, Legislation, Society and Charities of the United States.
Throughout the memoir, it shows that Greene embraces the bilingual education philosophy and a big believer of connecting with his students to build trust first before he begins his teaching.
Exercises and Texts as an Aid in Dactylology and Facial Expression Based Translation: Textbook [2-nd edition, expanded and revised.] / I.F.
However, like Manually Coded Languages, L'Épée's system was cumbersome and unnatural to deaf signers.
For many years, he was the director of Services for the Deaf-Blind at the Industrial Home for the Blind in New York City.
In 1892, she opened her School of Articulation, not only for deaf children, but for all with defects of speech.
Quotes attributed to him "Let the Englishman have his coffee, and let me have my ham."—Jean Massieu "Gratitude is the memory of the heart", which has become a proverb in the French language.
A 2006 CBS News article featured his contributions to developing a Braille modified lap top phone, a tactile talking tablet, and a screen Braille communicator.
It was around this time that he first met Father Giovanni Frisoni who became his spiritual director and advised Provolo to begin his ecclesial studies.
See also Roch-Ambroise Auguste Bébian References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
In the year of 1923, he obtained from the Mussolini government a law that enabled the deaf and blind people to attend elementary schools.
In addition to teaching at UCSD, he has been developing an experimental curriculum for teaching deaf children by applying bilingual teaching practices.
In his time away from work, Iosif was an avid gardener, a talented poet and an accomplished chess player.
Itard described pneumothorax in 1803; Laennec would provide a fuller description of the condition in 1819.
He was a pioneer of education for visual and hearing-impaired people in modern Japan, and has been called "the De l'Épée and Gallaudet of Japan".
Elizabeth English Benson (1904–1972) was an American educator for deaf students who taught at Gallaudet College for two decades before being named Dean of Women there.
After his graduation in 1866, Greene enrolled into National Deaf-Mute College (now Gallaudet University) on September 12, 1866, to pursue a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree.
In the 1921 parliamentary election she was elected as a deputy member of the Storting for the term 1922–1924, representing the constituency of Christiania and an electoral list of the Free-minded Liberal Party and the Conservative Party.
On-campus, he was widely applauded for his successful efforts to increase funding, including funds for expanding and constructing two new large-scale centers for education research and support.
In 1840, she graduated with the first class of Lexington Normal School (now Framingham State University) and married Boston varnish gum importer Edwin Lamson (1811-1876) in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on June 22, 1846, her twenty-fourth birthday.
Mervin "Merv" Donald Garretson (July 25, 1923 – January 9, 2013) was an American educator, leader, and deaf community rights advocate.
The large bluestone was completed in 1867 and still stands on St Kilda Road, Melbourne, currently operated by Deaf Children Australia References Deaf Children Australia official website Victorian College for the Deaf official website
She was elected as a deputy member of the Storting in 1922, as one of the first women elected to the Norwegian parliament, and served as president of the Norwegian Association for Women's Rights from 1922 to 1926.
His uncle, Professor Max Isaakovich Bim-Bad (1914–1996), was the founder and first head of the Department of Economics of road facilities of the Moscow Automobile and Road Institute.
Retrieved 2007-12-25.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) See also References Further reading Denison, James.
Under his leadership, the association established the Normal School and Training College for Teachers in 1872.
She attended Worcester public schools before any state or federal laws required accommodations for deafness.
Likewise, she consulted the available material, and all of this allowed the production of this study plan and programs.
In 1932, on the day of Saint Anthony of Padua, together with his deaf friends, he founded the Italian National Agency for the Deaf where he was president from 1932 to 1950.
He was the chair of the World Council for the Welfare of the Blind Committee on Services to the Deaf-Blind.
Fisher Award from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), the Larry Stewart Award from the American Psychological Association, and the Distinguished Leadership Award from the National Association for Community Leadership.
In 1844, he became a teacher at the Allgemeine österreichische israelitische Taubstummen-Institut in Nikolsburg, a school for deaf Jewish children established that year by philanthropist Hirsch Kolisch at the suggestion of Catholic priest Dr.
Writing In 2003, Ramos published "Triumph of the Spirit: The DPN Chronicle", about the history of deaf students at Gallaudet University.
Together with Randi Blehr and Cecilie Thoresen Krog, she was a co-signatory of a letter to the national government which called for women being admitted to the civil service.
Although the deaf and dumb had been gathered together in various institutions for forty years, no attempt had been made to provide such a course as they required.
He was critical of residential schools for the deaf, emphasizing the importance of allowing deaf students to interact with non-deaf individuals outside of school hours.
Career McCaskill served as a counselor at the Model Secondary School for the Deaf, at the Houston Community College System, and as a career counselor at Gallaudet University.
Because of the difficulty in finding teachers who had the necessary training to work with their students, Bryan used the pupil-teacher method under which she had been trained.
This afforded her a better quality of education, since in those days the schools for the deaf in Austria were not in the best condition, because none of them allowed sign language to be used for instructional purposes .
While at the RNID, Gorman began working with the anthropologist Sir Richard Paget to refine and develop a manually coded sign system, which Paget had originated in the 1930s.
"On deaf-mutes, the strange, and the modern Deaf self" in Culturally Affirming Psychotherapy with Deaf Persons.
Personal life Through his mother's lineage, Antrobus is distantly related to the English poet Thomas Gray.
Death In June 2005, Munyenyembe had a severe stroke in the speaker's chair while officiating on a motion to impeach President Bingu wa Mutharika.
In February 2022 Shortall, as spokesperson for Health, introduced a bill in the Dáil to stop the practice of the HSE sending debt collectors to cancer patients in search of payment.
At age 22, he graduated from Missouri Medical College (now Washington University School of Medicine) then served a one-year internship at the St.
The school was opened in his father's house at Kankurinkuja 5 and was the first school for the deaf in Finland.
The group also raised funds and awareness for other social causes and organisations, including old folks' homes and the Bone Marrow Donor Programme.
Gerry was a research associate for the British Sign Language Research Project (BSL) at Moray House College of Education working with Mary Brennan and Martin Colville.
Hurwitz has been active in a variety of professional and deafness-related organizations and serves on a number of boards of organizations serving deaf persons, including the Rochester School for the Deaf and the National Captioning Institute.
In 1902, she was one of the founders of the Queensland Adult Deaf and Dumb Mission and successfully organized a support group for parents.
At just twelve years old and with the help of her mother, she ran for the position of principal at her local school and won by competitive examination.
They formed the country's first teetotalism association in Jakobstad in 1877, attended by exclusively Baptists, including a number of children; the association caused so much controversy in the town that some students were expelled and the two were forced to leave their teaching jobs.
Newman (March 23, 1925 – July 4, 2011) was a prominent deaf activist, educator and author who served two terms as President of the National Association of the Deaf from 1986 to 1990.
Coolidge regretted how little writing was left by previous first ladies, and she began writing poetry and descriptions of her time in Washington, publishing them in magazines.
In 1803 Sicard became a member of the Académie française, occupying Seat 3 as the successor to the François-Joachim de Pierre de Bernis, who was a diplomat.
Castberg Prize Døvefonden, the Danish Deaf Foundation, has since 1970 awarded the Castberg Prize to individuals who further the cause of the deaf.
Life Panara was born in 1920 in The Bronx of New York City, and lost his hearing as a child from spinal meningitis.
Seminars, workshops, and publications See http://www.nbda.org/spotlight/dr.-carolyn-mccaskill for a list of seminars co-author of "The Hidden Treasure of Black ASL" (2011) Personal Life McCaskill grew up in the projects in Mobile, Alabama.
Veneration The disease that had caused Teresa Margaret's death left her body very swollen and disfigured.
Peet grew up as a CODA (child of deaf adult), as her mother, poet Mary Toles Peet, was deaf and used American Sign Language (ASL) to communicate.
After graduating from Penncrest High School in 1962, he enlisted in the US Navy and served four years.
She took his methods back to her home in Jakobstad and founded the Jakobstad school for the deaf Swedish-speaking population together with her father at his own expense.
He was influenced by his teacher Roch-Ambroise Auguste Bébian, a hearing man who had learned French Sign Language and published the first systematic study and defense of the language.
Her writing helped increase understanding of the Montessori method of child-rearing in the U.S.; she presided over the country's first adult education program; and her service as a member of the Book of the Month Club selection committee from 1925 to 1951 helped shape literary tastes in the U.S.
The Elizabeth Peet Award is given annually to an outstanding graduate student in school psychology at Gallaudet.
He achieved this distinction at New York University where he specialized in vocational guidance and rehabilitation of disabled people.
Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb In 1792 John Townsend, Henry Thornton, Henry Cox Mason, rector of Bermondsey, and others founded The Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, financed by public subscription, making it the first charitable school for the deaf.
While a youth he was for a short time an assistant at the Deaf and Dumb Institution at Edgbaston, near Birmingham.
"Nearly all the survivors [among the deaf Hungarian Jews] had attended the Jewish school for deaf children on Mexico Square." After the war Kaniszai returned to academic and teaching duties and authored the definitive Hungarian-language textbooks on education for the deaf.
He was instrumental in founding the National Theater of the Deaf in connection with the American School for the Deaf.
During the summer sessions, she taught at normal schools in Kansas, Milwaukee and Virginia and in the summer of 1930, she taught in the summer faculty at Johns Hopkins University.
He also began a Dictionnaire général des signes, which was completed by his successor, Roch-Ambroise Cucurron Sicard.
Early life Humphries coined the term audism in an unpublished paper in 1975 and repeated the term in his doctoral PDE (Project Demonstrating Excellence) in 1977.
At the 2004 general election, at which Muluzi left office, Munyenyembe was re-elected to parliament, standing for the UDF in Chitipa North.
Hurwitz retired on December 31, 2015, with Roberta Cordano succeeding him as the eleventh president of Gallaudet University.
After her retirement in 2014, she continued to serve on multiple boards and wrote the children's book Deaf Culture Fairy Tales in 2017.
She also established a convalescent home for refugee French children from the invaded areas; continuing her relief work after the war, she earned citations of appreciation from Eleanor Roosevelt, Madame Chiang Kai-shek, and the government of Denmark.
During a snowball Earth, iridium would accumulate on the ice sheets, and when the ice melted the resulting layer of sediment would be rich in iridium.
Material shifted by subsequent earthquakes and the waves reached to what are now Texas and Florida, and may have disturbed sediments as far as 6,000 kilometers (3,700 mi) from the impact site.
The term "Elatina glaciation" is, however, still used today, for the period beginning around 640 Mya.
Two archaeologists who were featured in the first season, Katya Stroud, a senior curator at Heritage Malta, and Necmi Karul, the director of excavations at Göbekli Tepe, said that their interviews were manipulated and presented out of context.
Assuming an impact origin, other possible ways of dating the event include looking for evidence of ejecta material such as tektites, and deposits from the hypothesised tsunami, which might be found anywhere around the North Sea basin.
Gerrothorax, the last known plagiosaurid, has been found in rocks which are probably (but not certainly) Rhaetian, while a capitosaur humerus was found in Rhaetian-age deposits in 2018.
The spike has been predominantly observed in North America, with just one observance outside the continent in Japan.
Some major regressions of the past, however, seem unrelated to glaciation episodes, with the regression that accompanied the mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous being one example.
Scientists realized that hydrogen would escape into space through a process called methane photolysis, in which methane decomposes under the action of ultraviolet light in the upper atmosphere and releases its hydrogen.
The Caledonian Mountains were also growing across what is now the Scottish Highlands and Scandinavia, while the Appalachians rose over America.
The Cambrian–Ordovician extinction event ended the Cambrian period, and led into the subsequent Ordovician period.
They argue that these lakes are the remains of multiple-kilometer-high waves that penetrated deeply into continents as the result of oceanic strikes that they proposed occurred.
Second, the pathogen must have a high infection rate, such that it is able to infect virtually all individuals of all ages and sexes encountered.
References External links Planet in Peril Interview with Sanjay Gupta, Jeff Corwin and Anderson Cooper on Planet in Peril
In the Hirnantian stage the volcanism diminished, and the continued weathering caused a significant and rapid draw down of CO2 coincident with the rapid and short ice age.
According to the Shiva hypothesis, the Earth is subject to increased asteroid impacts about once every 27 million years because of the Sun's passage through the plane of the Milky Way galaxy, thus causing extinction events at 27 million year intervals.
Courrier International notes that Hancock's claims are never questioned on screen: in Ancient Apocalypse, he calls the archaeologists "pseudo-experts" and repeats that they treat him patronizingly, but he does not name them nor explains their arguments.
In Bartoszyce, benthic faunas did not experience an extinction synchronous with the graptolite crisis, and experienced a spike in abundance during the post-extinction period believed to be related to the decline in eutrophication.
Naming The term is derived from the town of Dresbach which is located in southeastern Minnesota on the Mississippi River.
Purported evidence and rebuttals The 2007 paper resulted in cross-disciplinary relevant scientific rebuttals, including from many geologists, astronomers, archaeologists, and paleoecologists.
Effects The Šilalė Event resulted in a decline in conodont diversity and a corresponding increase not just in the diversity of brachiopods but in their absolute abundance as well.
Coprolitic evidence indicates that freshwater food webs had recovered by the early Ladinian, with a lacustrine coprolite assemblage from the Ordos Basin of China providing evidence of a trophically multileveled ecosystem containing at least six different trophic levels.
This suggests that the absence of megafaunal methane emissions may have contributed to the abrupt climatic cooling at the onset of the Younger Dryas.
Under high greenhouse gas emissions, at most a few high-Arctic populations will remain by 2100: under more moderate scenario, the species will survive this century, but several major subpopulations will still be wiped out.
It comprises eight extinction "datum points"—the first four being regularly spaced, every 30,797 years, and linked to the Milankovic obliquity cycle.
sulcipeculiaris Oriozabala, Sterli & De La Fuente 2020 - Late Cretaceous La Colonia Formation, Argentina References Further reading Alarcón Muñoz, J., S.
The oxygen reacted with the methane to form carbon dioxide and water, both much weaker greenhouse gases than methane, greatly reducing the efficacy of the greenhouse effect, especially as water vapor readily precipitated out of the air with dropping temperature.
Soft tissue anatomy The soft part anatomy of Sunella was previously poorly known, but was thoroughly described for S.
As the ejecta cloud cleared and sunlight returned to the Earth, plants, especially ferns, began to flourish once more.
These patterns are explained by the theory of insular biogeography, a concept that explains how evolution progresses when populations are restricted into isolated pockets.
The end of the Devonian Period had extremely widespread trap magmatism and rifting in the Russian and Siberian platforms, which were situated above the hot mantle plumes and suggested as a cause of the Frasnian / Famennian and end-Devonian extinctions.
Loydell suggests many causes of the isotopic excursion, including increased carbon burial, increased carbonate weathering, changes in atmospheric and oceanic interactions, changes in primary production, and changes in humidity or aridity.
References Further reading io9.com: "Why did nearly all life on Earth die 250 million years ago ?" Vancouversun.com: "Canadian researchers spearhead fossil discovery of resilient prehistoric animal."
The end of the Šilalė Event corresponds to the beginning of the Delotaxis detorta conodont biozone, a conodont biozone once erroneously thought to have corresponded to the latest Přídolí.
The findings are that second-order predation is more consistent with extinction than is overkill (results graph at left).
In addition, the formation of salt lakes and salt flats is neither synchronous nor consistent with the hypothesized impacts having occurred about either 9,640 BP or 5,150 BP.
This is further evidence of a major blow to ecosystems of the time – such deposits can only form in conditions similar to those of the early Cambrian period, when life as we know it was only just becoming established.
Those later events involved flexure folding and the northward movement of the Northern Calcareous Alps resulting in it overlying areas of the molasse deposits of Miocene age.
Discovery The crater-like structure was discovered by petroleum geoscientists Simon Stewart and Philip Allen.
The fifth and sixth probably reflect maxima in the precessional cycles, with periods of around 16.5 and 19 ka.
Eutherocephalians radiated very rapidly after the extinction event and increased in both disparity and diversity, filling niches left vacant by scylacosaurids and lycosuchids.
In 2016, a scientific drilling project drilled deep into the peak ring of the impact crater, hundreds of meters below the current sea floor, to obtain rock core samples from the impact itself.
In the later case, he proposes that their purpose was to pass on the knowledge of these pre-cataclysm civilisations, with their builders being the book's titular "magicians of the gods".
The second, larger pulse, the Toarcian Oceanic Anoxic Event (TOAE), was a global oceanic anoxic event, representing possibly the most extreme case of widespread ocean deoxygenation in the entire Phanerozoic eon.
It has been suggested that this was caused by climate change associated with the earliest polar glaciations and a major fall in sea levels, or by competition with taxa dispersing from Asia.
Correspondingly, shallow-water reefs were barely affected, while pelagic and hemipelagic organisms such as the graptolites, conodonts and trilobites were hit hardest.
Effects The Aptian event is most readily detected among marine deposits rather than terrestrial fossil deposits.
Organisms from the lower Cambrian, such as Thaumaptilon, were once thought to be Ediacarans, but this hypothesis no longer has many adherents.
Leonardo DiCaprio and Nina Dobrev serve as executive producers, with Lionsgate, Pilgrim Media Group and Appian Way Productions producing and Discovery+ distributing.
Labyrinthodont amphibians were particularly devastated, while the amniotes (the first members of the sauropsid and synapsid groups) fared better, being physiologically better adapted to the drier conditions.
As the methane reached the atmosphere, the earth became even warmer, which led to the extinction of even more lifeforms on land.
Some writers have attempted to explain this event in terms of climate or sea level change – perhaps arising due to a build-up of glaciers; however, such factors alone do not appear to be sufficient to explain the events.
Dinosaurs: The Final Day with David Attenborough (titled Dinosaur Apocalypse in the U.S.) is a British documentary programme that aired on BBC One on 15 April 2022.
Higher resolution δ13C isotope analysis identifies differences in the organic and carbonate carbon isotope curves (Δ13C), allowing the inference of a sustained drop in CO2 levels coincident with the extinction once sedimentological data are taken into account.
Only the hardiest and most fortunate animals and plants can survive the relentless flames and smoke that enshroud the planet, giving rise to a nuclear winter; for small animals, one of the best methods to escape the horrendous aftereffects of the impact was to build burrows.
Early estimates indicated a loss of marine invertebrate genera between 35 and 47%, while an estimate published in 2016 suggested a loss of 33–35% of marine genera when corrected for background extinction, the Signor–Lipps effect and clustering of extinctions in certain taxa.
The proposals include both catastrophic and gradual processes (similar to those theorized for the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, but with much less current consensus).
He links this to the construction of various ancient monuments, including Göbekli Tepe, Baalbek, the Great Sphinx and the Pyramids of Giza, some of which Hancock claims to be much older than mainstream archaeologists determined.
The positive δ13C excursion found at the Cenomanian-Turonian boundary is one of the main carbon isotope events of the Mesozoic.
Similar fossils have been found at other formations in China but they are relatively uncommon and poorly studied and therefore cannot be confidently assigned to this genus or even Sunellidae.
It was the Phanerozoic Eon's largest extinction: 53% of marine families died, 84% of marine genera, about 81% of all marine species and an estimated 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species.
Immediately after the extinction event, geological records from Bartoszyce evidence a sharp slowdown of ocean mixing.
Although there are other glacial deposits recognized throughout the world at this time, the Huronian is restricted to the region north of Lake Huron, between Sault Ste.
The Julian-Tuvalian boundary experienced high extinction rates among many marine invertebrates, while an extinction among land vertebrates was suggested to occur in the late Carnian.
Arguments offered for this mechanism include the lack of extraterrestrial material at the event site, the lack of a credible impact structure, and the presence of shocked quartz in surface outcrops.
Their body consisted entirely of soft tissues, except for an assortment of phosphatic elements believed to be their feeding apparatus.
The book appeared on the New York Times Best Seller list in the category "Religion, Spirituality and Faith" in December 2015.
Moreover, a 2006 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, Livestock's Long Shadow, also found that the livestock sector is a "leading player" in biodiversity loss.
Possible first appearance of plate tectonic activity in the Earth's crust as plate structures may have begun appearing.
They found evidence for a signal showing an excess extinction rate with a 27-million-year periodicity, now going back 500 million years, and at a much higher statistical significance than in the older work.
Extinctions by severity Extinction events can be tracked by several methods, including geological change, ecological impact, extinction vs.
Nonetheless, despite increased origination intensities and decreased extinction intensities near the end of the "cat-gap" (20–16 Ma), there was still no substantial invasion of hypercarnivorous morphospace until the immigration of felids into North America.
A long-term local effect of the impact was the creation of the Yucatán sedimentary basin which "ultimately produced favorable conditions for human settlement in a region where surface water is scarce".
Casualties The mechanism responsible for the event originated in the deep oceans, and made its way into the shallower shelf seas.
He therefore supposes that they were constructed by theorized civilisations destroyed by the Younger Dryas impact event, or else the survivors of the event and their immediate descendants.
However, species of Hindeodus were among the least abundant fossils (less than 0.25 specimens per kilogram of sample).
The metaphor refers to the mythological Medea (representing the Earth), who kills her own children (multicellular life).
Perceived extinction in the conodont fauna, however, likely represent a change in the depositional environment of sedimentary sequences rather than a genuine biological extinction.
Because both these groups disappear abruptly at the end of the Ediacaran period, 538.8 ± 0.2 million years ago, their disappearance cannot simply represent the closure of a preservational window, as had previously been suspected.
Older hypotheses have proposed that gradual changes in climate and sea levels may have been the cause, or perhaps one or more asteroid strikes.
Finally, even the lower warming levels of 1.5–2 °C (2.7–3.6 °F) would "profoundly" reduce geographical ranges of the majority of the world's species, thus making them more vulnerable than they would have been otherwise.
A fern spike is characterized by a suddenly higher abundance of fern spores following a disaster, generally accompanied by a decrease in other plant species as indicated by their pollen.
The groups with the highest survival rates generally had active control of circulation, elaborate gas exchange mechanisms, and light calcification; more heavily calcified organisms with simpler breathing apparatuses suffered the greatest loss of species diversity.
750 Ma): first thought to be a major glaciation of Earth, however, the Kaigas formation was later determined to be non-glacial.
The effect of the ecological crisis on terrestrial plants has been concluded to have been inconsequential, in contrast to extinction events driven by terrestrial large igneous provinces.
In particular, the ages of some of the possibly related craters are only known to an accuracy of a few million years.
However, some tempered their skepticism as further evidence came out in support of the impact hypothesis.
neanderthalensis and Denisovans, survived the Toba eruption and subsequent MIS 4 ice age, as their latest presence is dated to ca.
The Medea hypothesis is a term coined by paleontologist Peter Ward for a hypothesis that contests the Gaian hypothesis and proposes that multicellular life, understood as a superorganism, may be self-destructive or suicidal.
During the Marinoan glaciation, characteristic glacial deposits indicate that Earth suffered one of the most severe ice ages in its history.
Attenborough revisits the East African Virunga Mountains, where he interacted with mountain gorillas for his documentary series Life on Earth (1979).
It follows Roth and a group of scientists, activists, and researchers who travel around the world exposing the extinction of sharks.
920–850 Ma) redefines Gascoyne Complex: consists of reactivation of earlier formed faults in the Gascoyne – folding and faulting of overlying Edmund and Collier basins c.
On the early Earth, there was visibly very little oxidative weathering of continents (e.g., a lack of red beds), and so the weathering sink on oxygen would have been negligible compared to that from reduced gases and dissolved iron in oceans.
During the proposed episode of snowball Earth, there are rapid and extreme negative excursions in the ratio of 13C to 12C.
Coal swamp recovery Coal swamps recovered in the early Carnian, about 15 million years after their demise in the Permian-Triassic mass extinction.
The extinction event had two main pulses, the first being the Pliensbachian-Toarcian boundary event (PTo-E).
"Conjuring Up a Lost Civilization: An Analysis of the Claims Made by Graham Hancock in Magicians of the Gods".
The Day the Earth Nearly Died is a British documentary produced by BBC to the science and philosophy series Horizon in 2002.
This mountain-building may have also enhanced biological sequestration through an increase in nutrient runoff.
Spore availability Fern spikes cannot occur without ferns already existing in the area, so spikes occur primarily in regions where ferns are already a prominent part of the ecosystem.
Post-discovery investigations Geophysical data Two seismic reflection datasets have been acquired over the offshore parts of the crater since its discovery.
For this reason, well-documented extinction events are confined to the Phanerozoic eon – with the sole exception of the Oxygen Catastrophe in the Proterozoic – since before the Phanerozoic, all living organisms were either microbial, or if multicellular then soft-bodied.
Though ephemeral ice sheets may have existed on the Antarctic continent during parts of the Middle and Late Eocene, this interval of severe global cooling marked the beginning of permanent ice sheet coverage of Antarctica, and thus the end of the greenhouse climate of the Early Palaeogene.
The theory that all Ediacarans became extinct at the start of the Cambrian is disproven if any post-Ediacaran survivors are found.
In this view, microbial-triggered mass extinctions result in returns to the microbial-dominated state Earth has been in for most of its history.
1–752, ISBN 978-1862392656 Weishampel, David B.; Dodson, Peter; Osmólska, Halszka (2004), The Dinosauria, 2nd edition, Berkeley: University of California Press, pp.
It was preceded by the less-documented (but probably more extensive) End-Botomian mass extinction around 517 million years ago, and the Dresbachian extinction event about 502 million years ago.
It makes the feature the second of the largest confirmed impact structures on Earth, and the only one whose peak ring is intact and directly accessible for scientific research.
The similarity between the geochemical data of Rajmahal volcanos and lavas of the Kerguelen Plateau confirms this.
The Toba eruption (also called the Toba supereruption and the Youngest Toba eruption) was a large eruption that occurred around 74,000 years ago, during the Late Pleistocene, at the site of present-day Lake Toba, in Sumatra, Indonesia.
The glacial diamictite deposits within the Huronian are on par in thickness with Quaternary analogs.
Recent research indicates that recovery did not begin until the start of the mid-Triassic, four to six million years after the extinction; and some writers estimate that the recovery was not complete until 30 million years after the P-T extinction, that is, in the late Triassic.
He speculates that it was destroyed around 12,000 years ago by sudden climate change during the Younger Dryas cool period, but that its few survivors taught agriculture, monumental architecture and astronomy to primitive hunter-gatherers around the world.
Furthermore, climate change may disrupt ecological partnerships among interacting species, via changes on behaviour and phenology, or via climate niche mismatch.
Hancock argues that this caused widespread destruction, with a short-term return to Ice Age conditions followed by massive flooding that altered the continental landscape.
The assemblage includes Cladophlebis indica, Dictyozamites indicus, Taeniopteris spatulata, and Brachyphyllum rhombium.
The programme focuses on the mystery of the Permian extinction, which scientists believe killed over 90% of all life on earth at the end of the Permian, some 250 million years ago.
According to data on extinction intensity (see below), both extinction events slashed approximately 40 percent of marine genera.
Norwegian shale and Japanese chert from the Ladinian-Carnian boundary show a marked change in the ratio of seawater osmium isotopes.
See also List of films featuring dinosaurs References External links Dinosaurs: The Final Day with David Attenborough at IMDb
Juvenile Madtsoia madagascariensis may have eaten a wide array of small vertebrates, while adults likely ate a narrower range of larger taxa.
During the Permian-Triassic extinction, the largest extinction event in the Earth's history, the global sea level fell 250 m (820 ft).
4,560–4,550 Ma – Proto-Earth forms at the outer (cooler) edge of the habitable zone of the Solar System.
A mated pair of Quetzalcoatlus try to fly away but are caught in the shower of debris, which burns holes in their wings.
The Dresbachian extinction event, about 502 million years ago, was followed by the Cambrian–Ordovician extinction event about 486.85 million years ago.
While the paper looked at both climate and land use change, it suggested the latter was only a significant negative factor for specialist butterfly species.
A sequel to Hancock's Fingerprints of the Gods (1995), the book builds on the premise that a highly advanced "lost civilisation" operated in prehistory but was destroyed in a global catastrophe.
The Dresbachian overlies the Middle Cambrian Albertan series, and is the lowest stage of the Upper Cambrian Croixian series, followed by the Franconian stage.
The OAE is associated with large igneous province volcanism and an extinction event of marine organisms driven by global warming, ocean acidification, and anoxia.
Fossil-based estimates 2021 research found that the "Big Five" mass extinctions were associated with a warming of around 5.2 °C (9.4 °F).
Synopsis The programme features palaeontologists and other scientists as they try to find clues to the great extinction.
Participating researcher Dave Goulson of Sussex University stated that their study suggested that humans are making large parts of the planet uninhabitable for wildlife.
Also, the largest acidity spikes found in Antarctica ice cores have been dated to 17,300 to 17,500 BP, which is significantly older than hypothetical Holocene impacts.
In 2014, WISE data ruled out a Saturn or larger-sized body in the Oort cloud out to ten thousand AU.
Before the Grande Coupure, European faunas were dominated by anoplotheriid, xiphodontid, choeropotamid, cebochoerid, dichobunid, and amphimerycid artiodactyls, palaeotheriid perissodactyls, pseudosciurid rodents, adapid and omomyid primates, and nyctitheriids.
Specifically, he claims that coastal civilisations in and around the Atlantic Ocean, Southeast Asia and the Pacific Ocean were destroyed by rising sea levels.
But all have been rejected, usually for one of the following reasons: they require events or processes for which there is no evidence; they assume mechanisms that are contrary to the available evidence; they are based on other theories that have been rejected or superseded.
Magicians of the Gods: The Forgotten Wisdom of Earth's Lost Civilisation is a 2015 book by British pseudoarchaeology writer Graham Hancock, published by Thomas Dunne Books in the United States and by Coronet in the United Kingdom.
Thus, the Manicouagan impact may have been partially responsible for the gradual decline in the latter two groups which culminated in their extinction at the Triassic–Jurassic boundary.
The Mulde event was an anoxic event, and marked the second of three1 relatively minor mass extinctions (the Ireviken, Mulde, and Lau events) during the Silurian period.
However, origination rates also rose, and so there does not appear to have been any substantial decrease in species richness.
The Ireviken event was the first of three relatively minor extinction events (the Ireviken, Mulde, and Lau events) during the Silurian period.
Leading hypotheses include changes in sea level and ocean anoxia, possibly triggered by global cooling or oceanic volcanism.
Last Day of the Dinosaurs is a 2010 Discovery Channel television documentary about the K-T extinction, which resulted in the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs.
The second peak’s start is close to the base of the ludensis-gerhardi graptolite biozone, during the recovery interval.
With <250 remaining adult individuals, the study showed high genetic diversity and low levels of inbreeding and genetic load in the studied Dryas monkey individuals.
The Aptian extinction event (AEE) was an extinction event that occurred during the Aptian stage of the early Cretaceous Period around 116 or 117 million years ago.
Nickel enrichments are also observed at the Triassic-Jurassic boundary coevally with light carbon enrichments, providing yet more evidence of massive volcanism.
in 2009 concluded the OAE 2 occurred approximately 91.5 ± 8.6 Ma, though estimates published by Leckie et al.
The term Huronian is used to describe a lithostratigraphic supergroup and should not be used to describe glacial cycles, according to The North American Stratigraphic Code, which defines the proper naming of geologic physical and chrono units.
Whole ecosystem disruptions will occur earlier under more intense climate change: under the high-emissions RCP8.5 scenario, ecosystems in the tropical oceans would be the first to experience abrupt disruption before 2030, with tropical forests and polar environments following by 2050.
Climatic changes to arid conditions that muted variation at about 25.8 Ma coincides with the first appearance of hoglike creodonts and of pocket gophers, and this also is the beginning of the "cat gap", as well as the "entelodont gap".
Individual layers vary in thickness from less than one metre (3 ft 3 in) to more than 70 metres (230 ft).
WISE can detect 150-kelvin brown dwarfs out to 10 light-years, and the closer a brown dwarf is, the easier it is to detect.
Experts say that countries are not on track to meet international targets such as the Paris Agreement, with a projection of three to four degrees of warming if human activity continues unchanged.
At 3 °C (5.4 °F), there are more highly vulnerable species (205) than moderately vulnerable species (140).
Phipps Morgan and others have suggested that subcircular Bouguer gravity anomalies recognized beneath the Deccan Traps may indicate the presence of verneshot pipes related to the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.
Even before the Eocene-Oligocene boundary itself, during the early Priabonian, extinction rates went up in connection with falling global temperatures.
Strong evidence exists that the extinction coincided with a large meteorite impact at the Chicxulub crater and the generally accepted scientific theory is that this impact triggered the extinction event.
Huge Azhdarchid pterosaurs congregate en masse to nest and raise their young, which are born fully capable of flight.
After the Capitanian mass extinction, disaster taxa such as Earlandia and Diplosphaerina became abundant in what is now South China.
The 2010 paper by Roy, Orr, Botting, and their collaborators that announced the discovery suggests that Cambrian species persisted into the mid-Paleozoic.
The composition of the salts and other evaporite minerals found in these lakes is consistent with their precipitation from dissolved material continually carried into the lakes by rivers and streams and subsequent concentration by evaporation, instead of evaporation of seawater.
Most early papers used families as the unit of taxonomy, based on compendiums of marine animal families by Sepkoski (1982, 1992).
Hancock seeks an explanation for his catastrophe in the controversial Younger Dryas impact hypothesis, suggesting that around 10,800 BC the fragments of a large comet struck the earth, causing widespread destruction, climate change, and sea-level rise.
Specific areas it deals with are the conflict in the Niger Delta (oil exploitation) and La Oroya, Peru (industrial pollution).
Genesis These volcanic rocks were formed from the eruptions over the Kerguelen hotspot in the early Cretaceous.
Causes Eutrophication and anoxia coeval with abrupt ecological changes have been implicated as extinction mechanisms bringing about the Lundgreni Event.
Thousands of paleoenvironmental records constructed from the study of lakes, bogs, mires, and river valleys all over the world by palynologists have not shown the existence of such a megatsunami.
The Šilalė Event was an extinction event affecting conodonts during the Přídolí, the final stage of the Silurian period.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are useful to examine the role of natural selection at the genome level, to identify the loci associated with fitness, local adaptation, inbreeding, depression or disease susceptibility.
Around the same time, Sepkoski began to devise a compendium of marine animal genera, which would allow researchers to explore extinction at a finer taxonomic resolution.
It coincided with a global low point in sea level caused by glacioeustasy and is closely followed by an excursion in geochemical isotopes in the ensuing late Ludfordian faunal stage and a change in depositional regime.
However, oceanic models argue that marine currents would recover too quickly for freshwater disruptions to have a meaningful effect on nutrient cycles.
The sequence is largely marine, but the Grünbach Formation represents a terrestrial deposit and to the south-west of Vienna coal deposits in the Gosau have been worked.
In May 2020, studies suggested that the causes of the mass extinction were global warming, related to volcanism, and anoxia, and not, as considered earlier, cooling and glaciation.
Literary reviewers found the book ludicrous but entertaining, whilst sceptic and mainstream academic reviewers criticised Hancock for a litany of factual errors, for selective use of evidence and for logical fallacies.
Most of the marine victims of the extinction were either endemic species of epicontinental seas around Pangaea that died when the seas closed, or were dominant species of the Paleotethys Ocean.
The La Garita Caldera is a large volcanic caldera located in the San Juan Mountains in southwestern Colorado, United States, and is one of a number of calderas that formed during a massive ignimbrite flare-up in Colorado, Utah, and Nevada during the Oligocene Epoch.
However, a more significant factor towards animal extinction is the amount of materials consumed by humans, much higher in the developed world.
In the Sarmiento Formation of Argentina, Madtsoia would have frequently eaten the more varied and abundant mammals of larger size.
Current status and future extinctions Peter Ward proposes that the current man-made climate change and mass extinction event may be considered to be the most recent Medean event.
In the programme, it is argued that the Permian extinction came in 3 stages; the first was caused by volcanic activity in the great Siberian Traps.
A second season, featuring actor Keanu Reeves alongside Hancock, is focused on the Americas and was released in October 2024.
The oldest well-constrained geological units with dinosaur fossils are the Santa Maria Formation of Brazil and the Ischigualasto Formation of Argentina.
The 2022 IPCC Sixth Assessment Report estimates that while at 2 °C (3.6 °F) of global warming, fewer than 3% of flowering plants would be at a very high risk of extinction, this increases to 10% at 3.2 °C (5.8 °F).
From a palaeobotanical perspective, the Aptian Extinction Event is an episode of importance, deserving a higher status among other minor events.
The opportunistic, oyster-like bivalve genus Chondrodonta thrived during OAE1a because of its ability to survive in stressed environments where its competitors could not, and its spike in abundance is often used as a biostratigraphic indicator of the onset of OAE1a.
Many of the units of the group are fossiliferous, typically providing marine fossils such as ammonites, though terrestrial remains including those of dinosaurs are known from the Grünbach Formation and Schönleiten Formation.
A 2019 study published in Nature Communications found that rapid biodiversity loss is impacting larger mammals and birds to a much greater extent than smaller ones, with the body mass of such animals expected to shrink by 25% over the next century.
Catastrophe is a five-part British documentary television series telling the story of the catastrophic events that shaped planet Earth.
These widespread eruptions would have injected large amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere causing warming of the climate and subsequent acidification and loss of oxygen in the oceans.
While this change was favorable to freshwater vertebrates, those that prefer marine environments, such as sharks, suffered.
Positive neodymium isotope excursions provide additional indications of pervasive volcanism as a cause of OAE2.
Plants The rise of rainforests in the Carboniferous greatly altered the landscapes by eroding low-energy, organic-rich anastomosing (braided) river systems with multiple channels and stable alluvial islands.
The end-Botomian mass extinction event, also known as the late early Cambrian extinctions, refer to two extinction intervals that occurred during Stages 4 and 5 of the Cambrian Period, approximately 513 to 509 million years ago.
Lacustrine sediments deposited as a result of this lake's existence are represented by the Da'anzhai Member of the Ziliujing Formation.
After the Triassic-Jurassic extinction event (201.3 Ma), ferns drastically increased in abundance while seed plants became scarce.
Other evidence cited in support of YDIH includes black mats, or strata of organic-rich soil (which contained the purported nanodiamonds), and magnetic spherules that have been identified at several archaeological sites across North America.
Any grandchildren the criminal may have, over a certain age (again with enslavement for the underaged) and—if married—their spouses.
The victims were so-called collaborators with the Korean People's Army during North Korean occupation.
Antisemitism among individuals involved with HUAC has also been noted, including antisemitic Congressional testimony from Martin Dies Jr.
Elected offices like the President of Ukraine and People's Deputies of Ukraine will not be subject to lustration checks.
Insofar as the various blacklists of McCarthyism were actual physical lists, they were created and maintained by these private organizations.
The report stated that he was executed for showing "disloyalty to First Chairman of the National Defense Commission Kim Jong-un".
By that time, Syria was already facing a growing shortage of consumer and producer goods, such as (in some areas) bread or building materials, and its production in the textile industry had declined.
Merchants, journalists, and even missionaries established themselves in China, especially in the Treaty Ports created by a series of treaties after the Opium Wars.
The New Order had begun with much popular support and high hopes that the troubles of Sukarno's era were over.
Criticism According to General Prosecutor of Ukraine Vitaly Yarema the lustration law adopted by the Ukrainian parliament complied neither with the Ukrainian Constitution nor international law, and he warned "its enactment will have negative consequences".
Indonesia was given the tacit support of the American Government, which saw FRETILIN as a Marxist organization.
Modern times Founded in 1926 the present company has been in the building since 1929, and it was named after Lesya Ukrainka in 1941.
Latvian leader Kārlis Ulmanis requested German Freikorps support for assistance against the Bolsheviks.
On 14 August 1944 SS Chief Himmler received the mandate to have former Social Democratic (SPD) and Communist Party (KPD) officials detained.
Estimates indicate that approximately 5,000 were arrested across Germany, and most were promptly delivered to the closest concentration camp.
Chŏng Ch'ŏl, head of the Western faction and a famous poet whose poems are still studied in Korean schools, was in charge of investigating the case and used the case to purge Easterners who had slightest connection with Chŏng Yŏrip.
Cast Hartoni Ubes as Self Sarjio Mintardjo as Self Gede Arka as Self Asahan Aidit as Self Release The film had its world premiere at the 17th Jogja-NETPAC Asian Film Festival during the JAFF Indonesian Screen Awards competition program on 27 November 2022, where it won for Best Film.
Cases of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in the Soviet Union were divulged by Amnesty International in 1975 and by The Committee for the Defense of Soviet Political Prisoners in 1975 and 1976.
14 December executions As the war neared its end and Pakistani surrender became apparent, the Pakistan Army made a final effort to eliminate the intelligentsia of the new nation of Bangladesh.
This list presents the names of the purged members, along with the names of those who died in prison and those who spent time in prison.
Many victims of the Aviators Affair were rehabilitated during the De-Stalinization period of the 1950s.
After the independence of Bangladesh, a list of Bengali intellectuals was discovered on a page of Major General Rao Farman Ali's diary left behind at the Governor's House.
Literacy was widespread, and many Salzburgers owned Protestant books that had been brought in by travelers.
National movements The national movements included the Russian national dissidents as well as dissident movements from Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Georgia, and Armenia.
Initially, the Freikorps captured the town of Straupe and continued their advance toward the town of Limbaži.
According to the Valech Commission, waterboarding was one of the torture methods most commonly recorded by victims of imprisonment and torture.
On 18 August, a convoy carrying about 600 detainees to Abu Zaabal Prison near Cairo resulted in at least 35 deaths.
Similarly Indonesian Professor George Aditjondro, formerly of Salatiga University in Java, concluded from his study of Indonesian Army data that in fact 300,000 Timorese had been killed in the early years of the occupation.
In many cases, simply being subpoenaed by HUAC or one of the other committees was sufficient cause to be fired.
Pattern variables Parsons asserted that there are not two dimensions to societies (instrumental and expressive) but that there are qualitative differences between kinds of social interaction.
The communiqué also strongly criticized the unsatisfactory performance of the state economic sector and promised a number of reforms as well as greater encouragement of foreign investment.
A 1977 booklet from the Indonesian Department of Foreign Affairs, entitled Decolonization in East Timor, paid tribute to the "sacred right of self-determination" and recognised APODETI as the true representatives of the East Timorese majority.
The German Freikorps forces then attempted to seize control of Latvia with the assistance of the local ethnic German population.
Purges of Nazi collaborators, sometimes called national cleansing, were widespread trials of people accused of collaborating with the Nazi occupiers in many European countries after World War II.
According to Yonhap, multiple sources reported he had been executed along with other members of Jang Song-thaek's family.
See also Kim Kyong-hui References External links List of people purged with Jang Song-thaek Archived 28 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine (in French)
Mithridates invaded with a large army and killed Ariarathes, installing his own son – Ariarathes IX – c.
Criticism of the ICJ judgement The Court's finding that Serbia was not directly involved in the Srebrenica genocide have been strongly criticized.
North America Enslaved Africans in the 16th to 19th centuries throughout North America, South America, and the Caribbean were forced to abandon their native languages, religions, and cultural practices.
Professor Isabel de Madariaga (1919–2014) expanded this idea to explain the oprichnina as Ivan's attempt to subordinate all independent social classes to the autocracy.
Each exhibit provides context about the book, including the reasons for its banning and the broader cultural and historical implications.
On 22 August 2016, with the removal of Soviet distinctions from the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Guards titles were removed from the names of the units.
In spite of this, by March 1951, many large cities implemented the campaign upon the urgings of Mao.
A host country may declare any member of a diplomatic staff persona non grata at any time without any explanation.
Alcaraz felt responsible for keeping his fellow POWs alive and make their lives better the best way he could.
The cultural revolution primarily involved the fight against illiteracy, which was necessary for the subsequent scientific and technological development.
Justice Harlan wrote: The evidence was insufficient to prove that the Communist Party presently advocated forcible overthrow of the Government not as an abstract doctrine, but by the use of language reasonably and ordinarily calculated to incite persons to action, immediately or in the future.
On 17 July 2008, the South Korean governmental Truth and Reconciliation Commission acknowledged the civilian massacre.
On 20 February 2006, the National Archives of Korea reported that files concerning the massacre had been found.
Passage Instrumental in drafting the laws were Ukrainian historian Volodymyr Viatrovych and politician Yuri Shukhevych.
Kupreškić, expressly disagreed with the wide interpretation of the 'intent to destroy' as adopted by the UN General Assembly and the German courts.
In his 1997 memoir East Timor's Unfinished Struggle: Inside the Timorese Resistance, Constâncio Pinto describes being tortured by Indonesian soldiers: "With each question, I would get two or three punches in the face.
Ukrainian politician and president of the Ukrainian parliament Volodymyr Groysman, who visited Poland shortly afterward, stated that the law is not intended to be anti-Polish, and was intended to be anti-Soviet and anti-Nazi instead.
This led to the creation of dedicated Helsinki Watch Groups in Moscow (Moscow Helsinki Group), Kiev (Ukrainian Helsinki Group), Vilnius (Lithuanian Helsinki Group), Tbilisi, and Erevan (1976–77).
All the new sources [in Perjury] were marshaled by Weinstein to show that Chambers was a "truthful man." The process of the lawsuit also more firmly established that Krieger had in fact been a member of the Communist Party.
Three mental health laws proposed in the California Assembly in 1955 (Assembly Bills 1158, 1159 and 3300) attracted the attention of the APRF, which regarded them as an attack on fundamental civil liberties.
Early in his career, Jang worked for the Kim Il Sung Youth League (KISYL), first, during the 1990s and early 2000s, as secretary and first secretary of the Pyongyang branch of KISYL.
He also admitted that he modified his reports in accordance with the wishes of the communists, to portray them as democratic socialist reformers.
During the Tang dynasty (618–907), the family punishment was not abolished, but it was only applied to those who plotted against the rule of the emperor.
He rose to the top of the NKVD during the Great Purge and is known to have taken part in brutal interrogations and forgeries involving Stalin's purported enemies.
The Aviators Affair was a 1946 purge of the Soviet air force and the Soviet aircraft industry following accusations that, during World War II, Soviet fighter planes had been of poor quality.
Aftermath Despite surrendering at Far West on November 1, Mormons (especially in outlying areas) continued to be subject to harassment by citizens and militia units.
See also Notes Citations Bibliography Further reading External links Media related to Palmer Raids at Wikimedia Commons
His formal appointment as general secretary of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia (CPY) was confirmed in October 1940, during the Fifth Land Conference of the CPY in Zagreb.
In the November 1950 election, he defeated Republican party candidate Prescott Sheldon Bush, father of U.S.
Justices Black and Douglas wrote concurring opinions that argued that the Court should have gone further and ruled that the membership clause of the Smith Act was unconstitutional.
Jang is likely the son of Jang Myong-hui and Jang Song-kil, which would make him the nephew of Jang Song-thaek.
McCarthyism both reached its peak and began its decline when he launched an investigation into possible espionage and subversive activities at the Army Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories in Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, culminating in 36 days of televised investigative hearings in 1954.
Defamation campaign De Viana was particularly susceptible to defamation due to a pseudonym he used on Wikipedia, which was closely linked to his real name.
Waterboarding caused detainees to asphyxiate, while their heads were submerged into the water several times in a row.
Other operations include Operation Colombo during which hundreds of left-wing activists were murdered and Operation Condor, carried out with the security services of other Latin American dictatorships.
During the assembly, which he ordered to be videotaped, he claimed to have uncovered a fifth column within the party.
He also made special mention of Francesco Castello Aleu, a 22 yr old layman, and German Gozalba, at age 23 just 2 months into the priesthood.
The Prussian government subsequently declared that the Salzburgers were bona fide Lutherans who were entitled to the protection of the Peace of Augsburg.
Wuhan Among the victims of the White Terror in Wuhan was Xiang Jingyu, one of the earliest female CCP leaders.
Kozelsk and Starobelsk were used mainly for military officers, while Ostashkov was used mainly for Polish Scouting, gendarmes, police officers, and prison officers.
Pyotr Vasilyevich Fedotov (Russian: Пётр Васильевич Федотов; 18 December 1900 – 29 September 1963) was a long time Soviet security and intelligence officer, the head of counterintelligence in NKVD/NKGB and head of foreign intelligence as the deputy chairman of the Committee of Information.
After many of the charges were rejected by a federal judge and one of the witnesses confessed to perjury, the case was dropped in 1955.
The article included the often quoted lines: A rioting mob is the one and only possible means for organizing a fight in these last open and decisive blood-battles between the capitalists and the working classes.
This series of events is related to a persecution that began after the blackout of 2019, intensifying towards the end of that year against Costero, De Viana, and Wikimedia Venezuela.
On 14 December 1971, over 200 Bengali intellectuals, including professors, journalists, doctors, artists, engineers, and writers, were abducted from their homes in Dhaka by the Al-Badr militia and the Pakistan Army.
Realizing from the interrogation that Marcos had been spying on him for years, he fled to the US as soon as he got out, through the intervention of his children who were American citizens.
The film premiered in the country, screened by the National Commission on Human Rights (Komnas HAM) throughout late 2012 for filmmakers, authors, advocates, educators, and organizations for the genocide survivors.
The Sancheong and Hamyang massacre (Korean: 산청・함양 양민학살 사건, Hanja: 山清・咸陽良民虐殺事件) was a massacre conducted by a unit of the South Korean Army 11th Division during the Korean War.
As much as 2–3 percent of the population of Europe was affected by these trials, which were often held under special laws.
History Bourgogne Theatre The building was originally designed in 1875 by Vladimir Nikolayev and sponsored by a French entrepreneur Augustin Bourgogne.
He calls up many well-known people -- Socrates, Thomas Jefferson, John Milton, ..., Abraham Lincoln, ...
The 233 Spanish Martyrs, also referred to as The Martyrs of Valencia or Jose Aparico Sanz and 232 Companions, were a group of martyrs from the Spanish Civil War, who were beatified in March 2001 by Pope John Paul II.
At a special lecture at Osaka on December 12, Parsons spoke, at the suggestion of Tominaga, on "Social System Theory and Organization Theory" to the Japan Sociological Society.
Purge According to a report distributed to overseas diplomatic missions of North Korea, the 16 closest associates of Jang were executed.
With the protection of mission staff from prosecution for violating civil and criminal laws, depending on rank, under Articles 41 and 42 of the Vienna Convention, they are bound to respect national laws and regulations.
Career Kim To-man was a faction member of the Kapsan faction, whose ringleader, Pak Kum-chol sought to introduce economic reforms, challenge Kim Il Sung's cult of personality, and appoint himself as Kim Il Sung's successor.
Patrick Hurley testified to Congress that the China Hands had subverted his mission and General Albert Wedemeyer blamed the State Department for failing to act.
Ukraine Mortal Kombat 11 is banned in Ukraine due to high-impact blood and gore and depictions of communist symbolism, which is banned per Ukrainian law.
The laws passed on April 9, 2015, in the Verkhovna Rada with overwhelming support and were enacted by president Petro Poroshenko on May 15 that year.
The Investigator is found wandering, out of his mind, at the base of the mountain at whose top the plane had crashed.
Minutes of the January 31, 1938 Politburo meeting list the following ethnicities against which NKVD operations were to be continued: Poles, Latvians, Germans, Estonians, Finns, Greeks, Iranians, Harbinites, Chinese, and Romanians.
In July 2022, due to the February 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine was renamed from Lesya Ukrainka National Academic Theater of Russian Drama to Lesya Ukrainka National Academic Theater.
The irregularities in the case accumulated, including the lack of information about specific charges and the rejection of a protection request filed in January 2023.
As a CPUSA member and allegedly of the secret apparatus known as the Silvermaster group, Taylor is believed to have supplied information orally and in document form to Soviet intelligence.
Meanwhile, the People's Council of Latvia proclaimed Latvia's independence from Russia on November 18, 1918.
Đurišić formed a Chetnik prison in Kolašin, in which some 2,000 opponents were incarcerated and/or tortured.
During a speech at a military parade, General Al-Sisi called for mass demonstrations on 26 July to grant his forces a "mandate" to crack down on "terrorism", an apparent reference to the bombing at Mansoura and to restive Islamists continuing to oppose the overthrow of Mohamed Morsi.
"The Power of the Atom" quest was edited to relieve concerns about atomic detonation in inhabited areas and the Fat Man weapon was renamed to the Nuka Launcher due to its relation to the real historic event.
During the Cambodian genocide, Cham Muslims were persecuted by the Khmer Rouge regime, first through forced assimilation, but later through direct violence (mass killing, raiding and destroying their villages).
All of these channels will be craft through partnerships and a group executive at the SABC mentioned that if they are able to get the sports channel running in SD then they may be able to get a ninth channel which is history.
During the early days of the Cold War, many prominent women were listed as communists or fellow travellers in the American anti-communist publication Red Channels: The Report of Communist Influence in Radio and Television in June 1950.
Sheil was "outspoken advocate of social justice in the underprivileged and marginalized sectors of the community." His pro-labor stance led him to endorse some controversial strikes.
In all, 113 members were removed that June, representing over two-thirds of the total membership at the beginning of the year.
It also showed that 41% of respondents supported the initiative to dismantle all monuments to Lenin in the country, whereas 48% were against it and 11% were undecided.
When news reached Rome, the senate decreed that both kings were to be restored and dispatched Manius Aquillius to lead a commission.
By region Montenegro In June 1941, the Regional Committee of the CPY for Montenegro, Boka and Sandžak issued a proclamation inviting people to join the "final liquidation of the capitalist system".
Apart from the interviews with the exiles, the stories are told through historical footage and animation recreations.
On the same day, the Court upheld a provision of the Internal Security Act of 1950 that required "Communist action" organizations to register with the government, which subjected their members to a variety of restrictions.
Taylor also was a member of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA), in violation of federal employment statutes barring membership in an organization seeking the violent overthrow of the United States Government.
Speaking bitterness, defined as "articulating one's history of being oppressed and exploited by class enemies and thus stimulating others' class hatred, and in the meantime consolidating one's own class standpoint", was employed to focus peasant resentment towards landlords.
Economic effects Although land reform is an important social revolution, it has come at a great cost, causing significant rifts and internal strife within rural communities.
After a screening for US Congress members, Oppenheimer demanded that the US acknowledge its role in the killings.
Coca-Cola was not produced domestically, but could be found in bars and Comturist shops, stores with a restricted clientele where Western goods could be purchased in hard currency.
For example, in the summer of 1923, a campaign to discuss "issues of life" was initiated by Leon Trotsky, who spoke in print with a series of articles published in the eponymous brochure (three editions were published).
This agreement was eventually halted in 1980 with the outbreak of the Iran–Iraq War, during which Assad overtly aligned with Iran, spurring Iraq to accuse him of betraying Pan-Arabism.
Edina Bećirević, Genocide on the Drina River, New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2014, ISBN 978-0-300-19258-2.
Beatification liturgy The beatification of the entire group was enacted at a solemn liturgy celebrated in Rome on 11 March 2001, presided over by Pope John Paul II.
Philosophically, Easterners tended to be followers of Yi Hwang and Jo Shik while the Westerners followed Yi I and Seong Hun.
Angkatan 66, or the "generation of 66", refers to hopes within Indonesia for a generation of young leaders and a new intellectual life following the Fall of Sukarno and the establishment of Suharto's New Order in the mid-1960s.
In response, the International Freedom of Expression Exchange issued an alert concerning the SABC's apparent trend toward self-censorship.
Chambers doubted whether Krieger's communist allegiance outlasted the demise of his party marriage with Carol: "I had always felt that there were limits to Krieger's Marxism.
Kim Yong-ju, having studied in Russia, supported a more classical view of Marxism and was not fond of the extensive personality cult built around his brother.
But after hearing these reports, Governor Boggs issued new orders directing Clark to commence direct military operations and issued Missouri Executive Order 44.
At this time, national alphabets of several nationalities (the Far North, Dagestan, Kyrgyz, Bashkir, Buryat, etc.) were created (first within the framework of Latinization, then within the framework of Cyrillization).
States, mostly based on the idea of nation, perceived the presence of ethnic or linguistic minorities as a danger for their own territorial integrity.
Judge Irving Kaufman, who ordered the execution of the Rosenbergs, was a member of the ADL's Civil Rights committee.
Kim, was a key supporter of Kim Yong-ju, the younger brother of Kim Il Sung, who fought with Kim Jong Il over being heir apparent.
This phase of the White Terror continued until the army re-established control and various ringleaders were arrested and brought before the criminal court of Isère.
See also List of massacres in South Korea Truth and Reconciliation Commission (South Korea) References External links (in Korean) 산청 시천면 양민학살, 어떤 사건인가?
However, the plans fell through and in 2015, the SABC stated that it would launch two new channels, SABC News and SABC Encore.
January 2014) was a North Korean Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea politician who was reportedly purged with Jang Song-thaek and his associates.
In 1937, he was moved to the NKVD Moscow Headquarters, known as Lubyanka, and was put in charge of one of the Secret Political Department Sections in the Main Directorate of State Security of the NKVD.
In 1954, Sheil vehemently attacked Joseph McCarthy, at a time when most Catholics supported this right-wing senator, provoking the withdrawal of some of the financial supporters of his projects.
The Mayor of Prague's sixth municipal district, Ondřej Kolář, announced on Prima televize that he would be under police protection after a Russian man made attempts on his life.
Crummey and Platonov have emphasized the social impact of the mass resettlements under the oprichnina.
Residents reported areas of the city looked like combat zones, with tires burning and thick black smoke rising over the streets.
One woman testified that she had been "raped and sexually assaulted with trained dogs and live rats" and was forced to engage in sexual acts with her father and brother, who were also detained.
The Eastern faction was further split between hardline Northerners and moderate Southerners over the question of punishing Chŏng Ch'ŏl and other Westerners.
The Han dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD), although it inherited the concept of family execution, was more moderate in inflicting such severe punishments.
Europe Azerbaijan Ethnic minorities in Azerbaijan, including Talyshis (see Talysh assimilation), Lezghins, Kurds, Tats and Georgian-Ingilois, are subjected to forced assimilation into Azerbaijani Turkic identity and ethnic discrimination by the Azerbaijani government since the Soviet era.
The Double-ten Directive stressed on the "educational" effects of the campaign, and cases of execution were publicized by the newspapers to inform the masses.
According to South Korean media he had held the post of Deputy Director of the Korean Workers' Party Administration Department.
Michael Anthony Sells, The Bridge Betrayed: Religion and Genocide in Bosnia, Berkeley: University of California Press, 1998, ISBN 978-0520206908.
This was an ironic occurrence as it was Shang Yang who formulated such a punishment into Qin law in the first place, being commonly recorded as a lawmaker who used excessive punishments.
Women with short hair and natural (unbound) feet were presumed to be radical and became a specific target of the White Terror; Nationalist forces would often mutilate and display their corpses in an effort to cow people.
Adler and Robert Hutchins to edit a set of great books to be published by Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.; the 52-volume set of Great Books of the Western World was published in 1952.
He personally signed a document of an interrogation on October 20, 1942, imposing a five-year gulag sentence on famous Polish actor Eugene Bodo (Eugeniusz Junod) who died in Kotlas in 1943, due to poor conditions (Russian red cross document from 1992).
In 1950, Michigan enacted life imprisonment for subversive propaganda; the following year, Tennessee enacted the death penalty for advocating the violent overthrow of the government.
He was hailed as a genius communist theoretician, glorified by the state media, and his image was ubiquitous in Romania.
The Yugoslav communists suspended the instructions not to proceed to the second stage (the revolution) given by the Comintern in June 1941.
John Service, they pointed out, had admitted that before he went to Yan'an he had not read the basic texts of Marxism, and the other China Hands were no better informed.
It won the Best Documentary Feature Film at the 2023 Indonesian Film Festival and Best Film during the Indonesian Screen Awards section at the 17th Jogja-NETPAC Asian Film Festival.
A doctor tells a friend of the Investigator how incredible his survival of a crash that had killed everyone else on the plane, and his reaching the bottom of the mountain during the night, are.
A total of 340,000 to 350,000 people were sentenced, of whom 140,000 were targeted in the Polish operation and about 55,000 in the German one.
In presenting the Haynes report in early October, The New York Times provided a context which his report did not mention.
His account says: An association of traitors has been organised at Lyon, banded together for the purpose of murder.
In 1990 and 1994, following the Romanian Revolution, 97 of the purged members were restored to the academy, post-mortem.
Mass operations of the People's Comissariate of Internal Affairs (NKVD) were carried out during the Great Purge and targeted specific categories of people.
He also made reference to Consuela and Maria Dolores Aguiar-Mella, two lay companions of Maria Baldilou Bullit, and the first people from Uruguay to be beatified.
On 10 December, coinciding Human Rights Day, screenings were held in at least 50 venues across 30 cities, with an estimated 30 to 600 audiences per theatre.
At the same time, the court's expansive reading of Article 1 of the Genocide Convention as potentially imposing on all states a duty to prevent genocide, even if committed outside their territory, has been noted for its remarkable boldness.
The Komsomol played a major role in fulfilling the tasks of the party in carrying out the cultural revolution.
For a long time in Korean history, Chŏng Yŏrip's rebellion has been accepted as a fact even by the Easterners, but some historians note that there was no evidence except confessions from tortured followers and letters and writings discovered in his house, which could have been forged.
Elected chairman of the Committee on Government Operations in 1952, he proceeded to use his position on the Investigations Subcommittee to conduct a wide-ranging smear campaign.
She is honored as a martyr of the Philippines' Martial Law era, having had her name etched on the wall of remembrance at the Philippines' Bantayog ng mga Bayani.
On 12 January 2019, the main telecommunications provider in Venezuela, CANTV, issued a block against the online encyclopedia, Wikipedia.
Next Congress From 1985 Congress until Hafez al-Assad's death and Bashar al-Assad's rise to power in 2000, regional congresses were never held in Syria.
Richard Whittaker of The Austin Chronicle concluded that in creating the film, he "paid a psychic toll".
In the Philippines, local legislatures of provinces, towns, and cities can declare certain people or groups, including non-diplomats and Filipino citizens, as persona non grata to express a negative sentiment toward the certain person through a non-binding resolution.
The Exiles (Indonesian: Eksil) is a 2022 Indonesian documentary film directed, co-written and produced by Lola Amaria in her feature documentary directorial debut.
According to Chinese historians, between January and October 1950, there were over 800 counter-revolutionary riots nationwide, and that more than 40,000 political activists and masses of cadres were killed as a result.
On television, when asked if he would take any action against Benton's reelection bid, McCarthy replied, "I think it will be unnecessary.
Evacuation was accomplished through a succession of forced marches, which came to be known as death marches.
The Times described newspapers, magazines, and "so-called 'negro betterment' organizations" as the way propaganda about the "doctrines of Lenin and Trotzky" was distributed to black people.
He mentioned an incident in which Gauhar asked Ali to remove a friend's name from the list, and Ali did so in his presence.
Other sources such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch also support an estimate of over 200,000 killed.
Modeled after the Deferegger expulsion, von Firmian's edict ordered Protestants to leave Salzburg within eight days, leaving behind all children under the age of 12.
The theatre traces its roots to the Solovtsov theatric troupe that existed in Kyiv since 1891 and also performed in the Bourgogne Theatre.
Sheil, took the reins, that Catholic Scouting flourished in Chicago." He was awarded the Silver Buffalo Award by the Boy Scouts of America in 1942.
Breaking the First United Front, in April 1927, regular units of the Nationalist Army allied with criminal triad organizations such as the Green Gang began massacring CCP members, trade unionists, and others they contended were radical.
Morsi's Islamist backers also set dozens of police stations ablaze across Egypt and attempted to storm provincial governor offices following Wednesday's bloody crackdown.
Governments that have banned video games have been criticized for a correlated increase in digital piracy, limiting business opportunities and violating rights.
In addition to muffling by the rough insulation in the execution cell, the pistol gunshots were masked by the operation of loud machines (perhaps fans) throughout the night.
Protesting against the establishment of the monument, they put a cross in its place at the end of July 2007, this cross was removed on 31 July 2007.
Although some informal blacklisting continued, the private "loyalty checking" agencies were soon a thing of the past.
From September 1941 onward, Communist Party program documents began to mention courts authorized to prescribe the death penalty.
Ethiopia – Mengistu Haile Mariam was sentenced to death but later commuted to life imprisonment after being found guilty in absentia.
The unofficial newsletter reported violations of civil rights and judicial procedure by the Soviet government and responses to those violations by citizens across the USSR.
In modern media: A fantasy variation on the oprichnina appears in the Japanese light novel franchise Gate.
See also Third Battle of Seoul Truth and Reconciliation Commission (South Korea) Bodo League massacre Jeju uprising Mungyeong massacre List of massacres in South Korea == References ==
On 22 July, protests in Cairo led to two deaths at a pro-Morsi rally as unknown gunmen opened fire on demonstrators.
During 1955 and 1956 the APRF played a significant role in a concerted campaign mounted by the far right against mental health legislation in California and at the federal level.
This arrest was followed by the arrests of many agents who worked for him in the central apparatus of the MGB.
July 14: The Garfield Park riot took place in Garfield Park, Indianapolis, where multiple people, including a 7-year-old girl, were wounded when gunfire broke out.
Fe3+), reduction of trace elements from less soluble oxidised to highly soluble reduced forms (e.g., Fe3+ to Fe2+, Mn4+ to Mn2+), associative/non-symbiotic N2-fixation, protective antagonism to plant pathogens, enhancement of mycorrhizal infection and growth, and stimulating hormonal effects.
Orange firethorn (Pyracantha angustifolia) is considered to be a weed or potential ("sleeper") weed in several states or territories of Australia, including Victoria, Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales.
scrobicollis, which is monophagous and has been specifically studied since 2002, continues to be blocked, despite researchers' many petitions for approval.
If the animal dies, the plant may gain nutrients as the animal decomposes nearby, though this has not been confirmed.
It is native to much of Africa, Asia (Brunei Darussalam, China, India, Japan, Korea, and the Philippines) and parts of Australia.
Straw is an abundant agricultural waste product, and requires little energy to bale and transport for construction.
Description Echeveria colorata is an evergreen perennial succulent, with a rosette of fleshy leaves growing up to 40 centimetres (16 in) in diameter.
Zinnia bidens – Glossocardia bidens Zinnia liebmannii – Philactis zinnioides Zinnia elegans, also known as Zinnia violacea, is the most familiar species, originally from the warm regions of Mexico being a warm–hot climate plant.
The genus is native to scrub and dry grassland in an area stretching from the Southwestern United States to South America, with a centre of diversity in Mexico.
The outer two-thirds of the leaf blade bears outward-pointing spines which may be an adaptation to prevent herbivores from reaching the centre of the plant.
Agave parryi, known as Parry's agave or mescal agave, is a flowering plant in the family Asparagaceae, subfamily Agavoideae.
Flowers The very conspicuous cup-shaped inflorescences have a diameter of usually 5–7 cm (2.0–2.8 in) and contain tongue and tubular flowers, which are surrounded by bracts.
Bioplastic Rice straw, an agricultural waste which is not usually recovered, can be turned into a cellulose-based bioplastic with mechanical properties akin to polystyrene in its dry state.
Flower-buds ovoid, angled, Calyx lobes 5, divided to the base, white, ovate; corolla broadly rotate, valvate, lobes 5, deltoid ovate, reflexed, coronate-appendages broad, obtusely 2-auricled below the rounded apex which is lower than the staminal-column.
References Bibliography Data related to Aristolochia acuminata at Wikispecies Media related to Aristolochia acuminata at Wikimedia Commons
Unlike more commonly known species such as common milkweed or butterflyweed, fourleaf milkweed is a woodland denizen.
The milky juice of Calotropis procera was used against arthritis, cancer, and as an antidote for snake bite.
The most commonly used are willows and poplars, which can grow 6 - 8’ per year and have a high flood tolerance.
It is found in the eastern deserts of Egypt, through the East Mediterranean region and into Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
In Nepal it is also a common practice to cook these greens with meat of all sorts, especially goat meat; which is normally prepared in a pressure cooker with minimal use of spices to focus on the flavour of the greens and dry chillies.
The pollen are in a structure named pollinia which is attached to a glandular, adhesive disc at the stigmatic angle (translator mechanism).
Cornus sanguinea, the common dogwood or bloody dogwood, is a species of dogwood native to most of Europe and western Asia, from England and central Scotland east to the Caspian Sea.
The leaves are opposite, 4–8 centimetres (2–3 in) long and 2–4 centimetres (0.8–1.6 in) broad, with an ovate to oblong shape and an entire margin; they are green above, slightly paler below, and rough with short stiff pubescence.
They are flattened uniform ellipsoids, 1–1.9 cm (3⁄8–3⁄4 in) long, .8–1.3 cm (3⁄8–1⁄2 in) wide and 4–6.5 cm (2–3 in) thick.
Cultivation Since it is attractive and drought-tolerant, rosemary is used as an ornamental plant in gardens and for xeriscape landscaping, especially in regions of Mediterranean climate.
It has a deep taproot which makes it tolerant to drought and gives it a good soil structuring effect.
The places where the species is distributed, present a dry, arid, semi-warm climate, with a marked wet season in the summer, where the average annual rainfall is between 380 and 450 mm (15 and 18 in) and its average temperature throughout the year is of 21.2 °C (70.2 °F).
Clematicissus opaca was once classified as Cissus opaca, however a combination of genetic and morphological features led to it being placed within the genus Clematicissus.
Stubble-mulching refers to leaving the stubble or crop residue essentially in place on the land as a surface cover during a fallow period.
It is native to the Mediterranean Basin and is a common plant there, growing on sites comparable to those the European common hawthorn grows on.
Its salt tolerance, coupled with it being an evergreen, make it a good choice for wind barriers in lands close to the sea.
Pollinator plant This species is a food source for adult Crescent Metalmark butterflies (Apodemia phyciodoides).
The plant reproduces vegetatively when branches break off the main axis, or sexually when sporocarps on the leaves release spores.
Description The plant grows up to 2 metres (6+1⁄2 feet) high, exceptionally to 3 metres (10 ft), with many horizontal (divaricate) branches, generally with thorns (spinescent), often in thickets.
Description The plant grows to a height of about 30 centimetres (12 in) and has erect stems with spiny wings.
Taxonomy The plant was first classified as Emplectocladus fasciculata in an 1853 paper by John Torrey based on a collection of the plants of California acquired during the third expedition of John C.
Bambara groundnut is mainly cultivated as intercrop, however the planting density varies between 6 and 29 plants per square meter.
In the United States it is found throughout the west from Washington (state) to California and eastwards to Montana to New Mexico including all the states between.
The 'Profusion' cultivars, with both single and double-flowered components, are among the most well-known of this hybrid group.
The fruit is a juicy drupe about 7–9 millimetres (1⁄4–3⁄8 in) in diameter, normally forming in pairs or clusters.
Season and Harvesting Plants are capable of seed production once they reach a height of about 1 metre (3.3 ft).
The red clover has become increasingly important as a source of economic stability in Chile, which has made the need for pollinators even more important.
There is commercial and scientific interest in this variety, and its genetics are being researched to develop other self-fertilizing varieties that would reduce or eliminate the need for other fertilizers.
Cultivation Texas sage is a popular ornamental plant, commonly used for edge and area plantings in warmer and drier areas; it requires minimal water, is easily shaped into hedges, and blooms over the entire surface.
Description Cajanus scarabaeoides is a very close wild relative species of Cajanus cajan (common name, pigeonpea).
Herb gardens may be purely functional or they may include a blend of functional and ornamental plants.
It is intricately divided into thorn-tipped branches lined with clusters of small, deciduous, gray-green leaves no longer than about 1.5 centimeters.
Cultivation Abutilon pictum is cultivated as a popular ornamental plant, for use in gardens in subtropical and warm temperate climates.
In the center of the city (Puerta del Sol) there is a statue of a bear eating the fruit of the Madroño tree.
The racemes of tubular or funnel-shaped flowers are terminal, and colors are mostly reddish, ranging from fuchsia to pink to red-orange.
As with the closely related Cissus, the vines climb by means of tendrils produced opposite each leaf.
Lavandula multifida, the fernleaf lavender or Egyptian lavender, is a small plant, sometimes a shrub, native to the southern regions of the Mediterranean, including Iberia, Sicily, Northwest Africa and the Canary Islands.
Yucca angustissima is a low-lying species forming colonies of basal rosettes up to 3 m (10 feet) in diameter.
Description Fourleaf milkweed is a perennial herb with an upright stem growing from a fleshy rhizome.
Nathaniel Lord Britton and Joseph Nelson Rose placed the species in the genus Myrtillocactus in the same year References External links Media related to Myrtillocactus schenckii at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Myrtillocactus schenckii at Wikispecies
The feeder layer allows the plants to receive fertilizer without contaminating the stream, while simultaneously removing heavy metals from the water.
Coelospermum reticulatum, commonly known as medicine bush, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rubiaceae native to New Guinea, the Northern Territory, and Queensland.
latifolium Cultivation As befits their origin, they prefer to be cultivated in well-drained soil exposed to full sun but protected from the wind, and need little watering.
Distribution The natural range of Aloe buettneri is mainly West African Savannas especially Senegal, Nigeria and Togo, however, it has been found as far as Central and Southern Africa in countries such as Zambia and Malawi.
Juncus patens is a species of rush, known by the common names spreading rush and California grey rush.
Description Indigofera heterantha is a deciduous shrub growing to 2–3 m (7–10 ft) tall and broad, with pinnate leaves, each leaf carrying up to 21 grey-green oval leaflets, and racemes of purple pea-like flowers in summer.
The species is also called Texas Ranger, Texas rain sage, cenizo, Texas silverleaf, Texas barometerbush, ash-bush, wild lilac, purple sage, senisa, cenicilla, palo cenizo, or hierba del cenizo.
Because the rose hips remain on the plant throughout the winter, they provide food for wildlife during times when little forage is available.
It is found in many Northern California mountain ranges, including the Klamath Mountains and the North California Coast Ranges, the Cascade Range, the Sierra Nevada, the Modoc Plateau, White Mountains and Inyo Mountains.
It has also been found as an introduced species in Ontario, Canada and Hungary in the European Union.
In Toronto streets, setts were used by streetcar routes and disappeared by the 1980s, but are still found in the Distillery District.
The thick, white inflorescences have traditionally been harvested in Arabia for stuffing cushions and saddle pads.
A well-designed potager can provide food as well as cut flowers and herbs for the home with very little maintenance.
Shod horses are also able to get better traction on stone cobbles, pitches or setts than tarmac or asphalt.
Each flower has a single pistil, but six pollen producing stamens which emerge when the petals or sepals are touched.
It grows at the edge of desert dry washes in the eastern Mojave Desert and Sonoran Desert at altitudes below 610 meters (2,000 feet).
scarabaeoides can be crossed with pigeonpea cultivars for this desirable trait, farmers can reduce harvest time and increase overall yield.
Many cattle, goats, and sheep consider the berry of this plant to be a palatable food source, but is only heavily utilized where the annual growth of this plant is abundant.
The seed contains too much cyanide to be edible, although there is some archaeological evidence that the ancient population of the Mojave Desert pounded the seeds into flour and leached it to make it edible.
Plateau gravel a layer of gravel on a plateau or other region above the height at which stream-terrace gravel is usually found.
They are translucent with many black stripes and a clear edge up to 1 mm wide, sometimes with yellowish or pink pigments, the tip is ciliate.
It is also eaten to some degree by the Mountain cottontail rabbit and heavily eaten by the snowshoe hare in winter.
The stems are thin, gray-green, often somewhat waxy, and grooved, and grow 30–90 centimetres (12–35 in) in height.
Salvia rosmarinus, synonym Rosmarinus officinalis, commonly known as rosemary, is a shrub with fragrant, evergreen, needle-like leaves and purple or sometimes white, pink, or blue flowers.
As with ready-to-use spray bottles or cans, the mixture is applied to all surfaces of a plant's leaves and stems.
Piedmont gravel a coarse gravel carried down from high places by mountain streams and deposited on relatively flat ground, where the water runs more slowly.
C-N Leonurine (also known as SCM-198 in research) is a pseudoalkaloid that has been isolated from Leonotis leonurus, Leonotis nepetifolia, Leonurus japonicus, Leonurus cardiaca (motherwort), Leonurus sibiricus, as well as other plants of family Lamiaceae.
In the United States it is primarily found in the great plains mostly west of the Mississippi from Minnesota and Montana in the north to New Mexico and Louisiana in the south.
It is believed that illegal harvest is occurring on public lands and non-permitted harvesting is also taking place on private land.
Aloe buettneri growth overlaps with the growth of Aloe schweinfurthii, which is, along with Aloe buettneri, is usually referred to as Aloe barteri Baker.
Many frugivorous passerines find them simply irresistible, and prefer them over fruits grown by humans.
It was originally described as Pogonolobus reticulatus in 1858, before being transferred to its current name in 1867.
The five smooth petals and sepals have a bowl-like bloom, semi-inferior ovaries, and compound veiny and hairy leaves.
Lawn cultivars Only three North American grasses are both drought tolerant and suitable for use as a lawn.
It is a perennial plant, which is endemic to California chaparral and woodlands habitats on the Channel Islands in Southern California, and on Guadalupe Island west of the Baja California Peninsula in Baja California, Mexico.
This practical garden was to be separated from the pleasure gardens, enclosed by a thick hedge or wall.
Different parts of the plant are also used in ritual purification by several Native American cultures.
The material collected by Allan Cunningham from York Sound in Western Australia became the type material.
The leaves are rimmed by alternating paired and solitary teeth and come together to form an underground bulb-like base making the plant appear stemless.
Indigofera gerardiana), commonly known as Himalayan indigo, is a species of flowering plant in the legume family Fabaceae.
Crossosoma bigelovii, known by the common name ragged rockflower, is one of only a few species in the flowering plant family Crossosomataceae.
There is a ridge along its length and the husk is covered in loose, orange hairs that cause a severe itch if they contact skin.
Chrysolepis also differs from another allied genus Castanea (chestnuts), in nuts that take 14–16 months to mature (3–5 months in Castanea), evergreen leaves and the shoots having a terminal bud.
It is frequently suggested that white sage is protected by the Endangered Species Act of 1973, which is a common misconception.
It is drought tolerant and very hardy, down to −15 °C (5 °F) However, in colder areas it can be herbaceous, meaning that at the end of the season it dies back down to ground level before regrowing the following year.
The plant is thus often grown in organic gardening and permaculture to prevent harm to orchard crops, while benefiting from the fact that even frugivorous birds will hunt pest insects during the breeding season, as their young require much protein to grow.
See also Phytoremediation Hyperaccumulating Plants Biodegradation Bioremediation References External links Phytoremediation and Hyperaccumulator Plants Comprehensive overview.
Xerophytic plants exhibit a diversity of specialized adaptations to survive in such water-limiting conditions.
Distribution and habitat Californian white sage is a common plant that requires well-drained dry soil, full sun, and little water.
Pepper vine is naturally found in rocky locales in monsoon forest, littoral rainforest and open forest, and is occasionally grown as a garden plant.
Description An evergreen perennial, it forms large, dense rosettes of grey-green, strap-like leaves edged with hooked spines.
Epilobium canum (or its cultivar(s)) is a recipient of the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit under the Zauschneria californica name.
a top so densely branched, angled and interlocked as to well merit the name Emplectocladus (Greek, "woven branch"), signifying interlocked branches ...
Insect visitors to the plant include wasps, honeybees, and lepidopterans such as moths and the cabbage white.
In Mexico, it is common to find them in different presentations as a snack or candy: salty, "Japanese" peanuts, praline, enchilados or in the form of a traditional sweet made with peanuts and honey called palanqueta, and even as peanut marzipan.
Potential protocarnivory The plant is believed to be hazardous to sheep and birds which may become entangled in the spines of the leaves.
Some cultivars are more susceptible than others—the flies prefer the largest, sweetest fruits, while a nearby tree bearing smaller, less-sweet fruits suffers little damage.
scarabaeoides range from 2.4–4 mm long, 1.8–3 mm wide, and 1–2 mm thick and are either black in colour or speckled.
The seedlings grow best in full sunlight, and need to grow for as long as 15 months in the nursery before planting in the field.
platypoda with Ficus leucotricha, which was described by Miquel in 1861, however as the former name is older, it has become the accepted name instead.
References External links Media related to Carduus argentatus at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Carduus argentatus at Wikispecies
Bambara groundnut can tolerate heavy rainfall, but it will result in yield losses if they happen at harvest.
As a food and source of income, the Bambara groundnut is considered to be the third most important leguminous crop in those African countries where it is grown, after peanut and cowpea.
In a study published in 2008, Nina Rønsted and colleagues analysed the DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal internal and external transcribed spacers (ITS and ETS), and the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3pdh) region, in the first molecular analysis of the section Malvanthera.
Slow the Spread has been implemented across the 1,200-mile (1,900 km) spongy moth frontier from Wisconsin to North Carolina.
Relationship to plant life In locales where gravelly soil is predominant, plant life is generally more sparse.
Pale pink to white flowers are borne in 1 to 3 rounded, usually pendulous clusters, or umbels from the leaf axils and terminus.
This genus name was a shortened form of Bubalochloe, a Latinized form of the common name buffalo grass.
Its alternate leaves are small, 5–9 centimetres (2–3+1⁄2 inches) long and 4–7 cm (1+1⁄2–3 in) broad, lobed, juicy green when new.
In sustainable gardening and sustainable landscaping, Juncus patens is used in rain gardens and phytoremediation swales and intermittent ponds.
The complex supports integrated pest management and biological pest control, research, and includes the Insectary, Quarantine Facility, Insect Preparation Facility, eight specialized greenhouses, a lathhouse, and storage.
Distribution This annual herb is native to: Northern Mexico in Coahuila, Chihuahua, Sonora, and San Luis Potosí states; and the Southwestern United States within Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas.
It is present in New Zealand as an introduced species and an invasive weed that has crowded out a native relative, Azolla rubra.
Now, several years later, the affected communities as well as the nascent US pheromone industry (which provides safer, yet very effective, alternatives to the use of conventional pesticides) are still suffering the ripple effects of these disastrous Bay Area LBAM eradication campaigns.
Modern knappers are advised to work in the open air to reduce the dust hazard, and to wear eye and hand protection.
Types Bioeffectors directly or indirectly affect plant performance by influencing the functional implementation or activation of biological mechanisms, particularly those interfering with soil-plant-microbe interactions.
kanabensis Archived 2013-11-23 at the Wayback Machine Gartendatenbank, Gabriele Jesdinsky, Berlin, Palmlilien (Yucca angustissima) Archived 2015-09-24 at the Wayback Machine Sunshine Seeds, Ahlen Germany, Yucca angustissima, Palmlilie, Yucca
Fennel fruit is a common and traditional spice in flavored Scandinavian brännvin (a loosely defined group of distilled spirits, which include akvavit).
White oil is a grade of mineral oil used as an insecticide spray used for controlling a wide range of insect pests in the garden.
However, it is vital that plants living in dry conditions are adapted so as to decrease the size of the open stomata, lower the rate of transpiration, and consequently reduce water loss to the environment.
xanti, known commonly as chaparral nightshade, purple nightshade, and San Diego nightshade, is a variety of nightshade.
It has been reported from the states of Arizona, California, Nevada, Baja California, Chihuahua, and Sonora.
The fruit is a densely spiny cupule containing 1–3 sweet, edible nuts, eaten by the indigenous peoples.
Control of plant-parasitic nematodes Purpureocillium lilacinum was first observed in association with nematode eggs in 1966 and the fungus was subsequently found parasitising the eggs of Meloidogyne incognita in Peru.
Erythranthe alsinoides is a species of monkeyflower known by the common names wingstem monkeyflower and chickweed monkeyflower.
This complex of facilities was first established in 1923 as part of the UC Citrus Experiment Station, and is currently managed by the University of California, Riverside Department of Entomology.
John Wilkes's Encyclopaedia Londinensis (volume III, 1810) makes note of the "remarkable" features of the plant including the leaves' spots of white (pictured), which it reports are found in three other species of "Egyptian thistle".
azarolus is often divided into subspecies or varieties, for example Christensen in his monograph uses four varieties: C.
Less than 2 centimeters long with 3 to 5 prominent veins on the upper surface, they are oppositely arranged about the small stem.
Funastrum cynanchoides (formerly called Sarcostemma cynanchoides), also known as fringed twinevine, twining milkweed or climbing milkweed, is a perennial plant in the family Apocynaceae that grows twining through other plants in the Mojave Desert and Sonoran Desert.
This may be associated with how they survive without sugar production via photosynthesis for a relatively long duration.
The most important groups of natural enemies associated with garlic mustard were weevils (particularly the genus Ceutorhynchus), leaf beetles, butterflies, and moths, including the larvae of some moth species such as the garden carpet moth.
Sierra Mixe corn is a traditional variety of maize grown in the Sierra Mixe region of Mexico, especially the town of Totontepec Villa de Morelos.
In cooler temperate regions, it must be kept indoors for the winter, as it does not tolerate temperatures of −4 °C (25 °F) and below.
The first to use the term dynamic accumulator in the above definition was probably Robert Kourik in his book Designing and Maintaining Your Edible Landscape—Naturally (1986).
High-emission dispensers There are several very high dose pheromone dispensers, some do it passively, like pheromone sachets and large dollops of SPLAT pheromone formulations, others do it be actively releasing bursts of sex pheromone at timed intervals.
Barometer bush Texas sage is nicknamed the "barometer bush" due to a commonly held belief that it can predict the rain.
The flavor of the berries is quite tart with an astringent quality, and generally more attractive to birds than humans.
Fennel seeds are 52% carbohydrates (including 40% dietary fiber), 15% fat, 16% protein, and 9% water.
state of Texas, where it is the official "State Native Shrub of Texas", and to the states of Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas in northern Mexico.
See also Hyperaccumulator List of hyperaccumulators Permaculture References External links The Facts about Dynamic Accumulators Does Comfrey Really Improve Soil?
Seeds that are chewed and crushed while raw will release cyanogenic glycosides, and can cause mild gastro-intestinal problems when eaten in large enough quantities.
In North America, the plant offers very little wildlife benefits and is toxic to larvae of certain rarer butterfly species (e.g.
Thus, the seed and plant can utilise the water available from short-lived rainfall for a much longer time compared to mesophytic plants.
The accompanying leaves are about 12.5 mm (1⁄2 in) long; the flower stand axes are from 2.5–5 mm (1⁄8–3⁄16 in).
Species There are two species of Chrysolepis — Chrysolepis chrysophylla and Chrysolepis sempervirens — which like many species in the related genera of Castanopsis and Castanea are called chinquapin, also spelled "chinkapin".
These "soft hammer" techniques also produce longer, thinner flakes, potentially allowing for material conservation or a lighter lithic tool kit to be carried by mobile societies.
Indian cuisine uses roasted, crushed peanuts to give a crunchy body to salads; they are added whole to leafy vegetable stews and rice for the same reason.
Cultivars Cultivars of the species, for use as an ornamental plant, include: Frangula (Rhamnus) californica 'Eve Case' — Eve Case coffeeberry; smaller and more compact (3-6' H x 3-4' W), with denser foliage and larger berries than other species.
Abutilon palmeri, known as Palmer's abutilon, superstition mallow, and Palmer's Indian mallow is a species of flowering plant native the Southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico.
The seed producing inflorescences are very modified compared with other grasses including the other grasses in the Bouteloua genus, looking like a round globe topped with short spikes, appropriately called a spikelet, with three to seven spikelets per bur.
The term Pyracantha derives from the Greek pyrakantha, referring to pyr "fire", and akantha "thorn, thorny plant".
Leonurine is easily extracted into water.[1] One experimental animal study suggests that the aqueous leaf extract of Leonotis leonurus possesses antinociceptive, antiinflammatory, and hypoglycemic properties.
Cultivars Cultivars of Juncus patens, selected for blue and/or gray foliage emphasis, include: Juncus patens 'Carman's Grey' — Carmen's California Gray Rush, steely blue-gray.
Each small flower has four white petals 4–8 mm (0.2–0.3 in) long and 2–3 mm (0.08–0.12 in) broad, arranged in a cross shape.
Uses Fences Waraqu are cultivated for the use of planting them close together to make living fences.
Crataegus azarolus is a species of hawthorn known by the common names azarole, azerole (from Arabic: الزُّعرُورَة, romanized: az-zu'rūra) and Mediterranean medlar.
The leaves are alternate and ovate or oblong-elliptic in shape with rounded apices, with three main longitudinal veins originating from the petiole.
truncata Gentry, Mescal agave Gallery References External links Media related to Agave parryi at Wikimedia Commons USDA Forest Service: Parry's Agave (Agave parryi) Mescal Agave Archived 2016-08-27 at the Wayback Machine Arizona.edu: Agave parryi var.
Torrefied straw in the form of pellets can be directly co-fired with coal or natural gas at very high rates and make use of the processing infrastructures at existing coal and gas plants.
The plant has naturalised in northern regions of Australia, as an alien introduction, and is cultivated and utilised by the indigenous peoples of some countries.
A team at University of California, Davis is working on this under the auspices of the Nagoya Protocol, which aims to encourage equitable sharing of the benefits of such biodiversity.
It is listed as an endangered species on the California Native Plant Society Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants of California.
At maximum growth rate, it can double its biomass in 1.9 days, with most strains attaining such growth within a week under optimal conditions.
In cultivated grainfields, like lentils, it is often considered a weed due to downgrading of harvested mixed grain, resulting in farmers receiving less financial returns.
Pyracantha (from Greek pyr "fire" and akanthos "thorn", hence firethorn) is a genus of large, thorny evergreen shrubs in the family Rosaceae, with common names firethorn or pyracantha.
Distribution and habitat This species has a distribution restricted to the states of Chiapas, Oaxaca and Puebla.
The main stem is short, with branches up to 10 cm (3.9 in) wide, shaped like a "chandelier", much branched near the base of the trunk, stems 6–12 cm (2.4–4.7 in) in diameter, with 6–8 ribs, bluish-green.
Kourik later said that he wished he hadn't published that list of dynamic accumulators because it was anecdotal and unscientific.
It is native to the West Coast of the United States from Washington to California, and into Baja California, Mexico.
Aristolochia acuminata, the native Dutchman's pipe or Indian birthwort is a poisonous perennial vine that is endemic to Asia and Malesia, New Guinea and the Solomon Islands and northern Australia.
"Nitrogen fixation in a landrace of maize is supported by a mucilage-associated diazotrophic microbiota".
It is eaten in any form in Assam and Northeast, be it boiled or added raw in salad, cooked alone or with pork.
A 1600 mg/kg extract led to changes in red blood cells, haemoglobin concentration, mean corpuscular volume, platelets, and white blood cells.
Chrysolepis is related to the subtropical southeast Asian genus Castanopsis (in which it was formerly included), but differs in the nuts being triangular and fully enclosed in a sectioned cupule, and in having bisexual catkins.
Since that time, a number of synonyms have published: There are at least four generally accepted subspecies: Vicia sativa subsp.
Rhizofiltration is a form of phytoremediation that involves filtering contaminated groundwater, surface water and wastewater through a mass of roots to remove toxic substances or excess nutrients.
Berries fully ripen in early fall, but can be challenging to collect due to birds who use the fruit as a resource.
It appears to do this by outcompeting native species for light, nutrients, and water and perhaps by exuding allelopathic substances that inhibit the growth of other plants.
Medicinal uses In the traditional medicine of India, Trifolium pratense is believed to be a deobstruent, antispasmodic, expectorant, sedative, anti-inflammatory and antidermatosis agent.
When meant for seed, sowing is done early in the planting season for good returns; but, when for green manure, any time in spring is suitable.
Biocontrol agent Plant-parasitic nematodes cause significant economic losses to a wide variety of crops.
However, in India, among the general public, it is the belief that akada (arka) is a poisonous plant and can make people intoxicated.
The plant grows in chaparral, oak woodlands, conifer forests, desert Madrean Sky Islands, and other habitats.
Yucca angustissima is relatively abundant, and although it has local threats, its population appears to be stable overall.
The recombination frequency from a cross of two rII mutants (a x d) is usually less than the sum of recombination frequencies for adjacent internal sub-intervals (a x b) + (b x c) + (c x d).
charcoal), to interfere with color-based drug tests (mixing thiocyanates and iron salts or cobalt salts forms deep red complexes in solution), to make the mixture undetectable by drug sniffing dogs (activated carbon may sufficiently absorb trace odors).
Meat and dairy products can still be sold in the UK into the human food chain, providing the relevant carcass inspections and milk pasteurisation have been applied.
Its presence intracellularly in phagocytic cells also permits access to the brain and probably transplacental migration to the fetus in pregnant women.
The Board of Health exonerated the distillers, but public outcry led to the passage of the first food safety laws in the form of milk regulations in 1862.
Health concerns The brew is often doctored in unsafe and poisonous ways, and its regular abuse frequently has resulted in alcohol poisoning related hospitalizations, blindness, and death.
Epidemiologists from Health Canada quickly linked the illnesses to restaurant meals of cultured mussels harvested from one area in Prince Edward Island, a place never before affected by toxic algae.
Due to blood shortages associated with the 2020 COVID-19 outbreak these restrictions were temporarily rescinded in 2020.
Feeding After severe dehydration is corrected and appetite returns, feeding the person speeds the recovery of normal intestinal function, minimizes weight loss and supports continued growth in children.
Most foodborne disease outbreaks in Australia have been linked to raw or minimally cooked eggs or poultry.
Seidl, as celebrated conductor of the musical life in New York, became the music director of the New York Philharmonic (NYP) in 1891, where he remained until his death in 1898.
The government of India vehemently responded to the research, calling it "misleading, highly mischievous; a figment of imagination; absurd", further adding that India maintained constant surveillance and had not had a single case of either BSE or vCJD.
Results of the scandal Although there were no official findings of large-scale trouble with meat supplies, the newspapers stirred up public opinion on the subject.
However, the danger of equine-derived antitoxin to infants has not been clearly established, and one study showed the equine-derived antitoxin to be both safe and effective for the treatment of infant botulism.
Death In October 2012, she and her husband Harold Starcher ate at a Bob Evans restaurant in Ripley, where both allegedly suffered food poisoning.
Standards have been established by various organizations that attempt to define the permitted levels of various impurities in a manufactured product.
Death statistics Of the 696 patients admitted at both sites, there was a high mortality rate, numbering approximately one half of the persons treated.
In 2006, two men who apparently ate the fish experienced hallucinations lasting for several days (an effect common with some naturally occurring deliriants).
About 12,000 bottles of fake whiskey labeled "Mister Burdon" were distributed in the provinces of Ankara, Mersin, Antalya and Muğla.
Several clauses of the act were continued from the expiration of those enactments until the end of the next session of parliament after 29 September 1742 by section 3 of the Continuance of Laws (No.
Virginia Rae "Ginny" Starcher (February 23, 1930 – December 19, 2012) was an American politician and schoolteacher from West Virginia, who represented Jackson County and part of Mason County from 1987–1991.
Since the result is usually black, it is generally smuggled as toner, fingerprint powder, fertilizer, pigment, metal moldings, or charcoal.
Lawsuits about botulism against pharmaceuticals Prior to the boxed warning labels that included a disclaimer that botulinum toxin injections could cause botulism, there were a series of lawsuits against the pharmaceutical firms that manufactured injectable botulinum toxin.
In 2021, 860 kg (1,900 lb) of black cocaine disguised as charcoal, in 30 sacks among 1,364 sacks of charcoal, were seized in Spain, one of the biggest cocaine seizures recorded in Castilla y León.
Host–parasite interactions Diphyllobothriasis is postulated to cause changes in neuromodulator concentrations in host tissue and serum.
Fipronil is classed as a WHO Class II moderately hazardous pesticide, and has a rat acute oral LD50 of 97 mg/kg.
Street drugs Depressants Heroin Heroin is commonly cut with quinine, caffeine, dimethocaine, lidocaine, procaine, lactose, inositol, dextrose, mannitol, and starch.
A clear liquid distilled from sugar cane juices, it has a slightly sweeter taste than comparable liquors.
Virginia Starcher died at the Hubbard Hospice House in Charleston, West Virginia on December 19, 2012, and Harold died on May 6, 2013.
Honours Club Winner of the Algerian Cup in 1978 National team Runner-up in the 1980 African Cup of Nations in Nigeria References External links Player's profile - dzfootball
They used available household equipment, starting with a "half a seer" (half a quart) of water and adding a fistful of sugar and a three-finger pinch of salt.
Influenza-like symptoms, including persistent fever, usually precede the onset of the aforementioned disorders.
Biography Benmiloudi was born to an Algerian mother and a Moroccan emigrant father in El Madania, Algiers, where he began playing football.
cholerae serogroups and biotypes, which helps improve the understanding of the evolutionary divergence and metabolic versatility that distinguish epidemic strains from non-pathogenic environmental strains.
Effects on the digestive system include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, dysphagia, tongue abnormalities, and a firm, nontender liver.
Salmonellosis annually causes, per CDC estimation, about 1.2 million illnesses, 23,000 hospitalizations, and 450 deaths in the United States every year.
On egg yolk medium, toxin-producing colonies usually display surface iridescence that extends beyond the colony.
The species most commonly claimed to be capable of producing this kind of toxicity include several species from the genus Kyphosus, including Kyphosus fuscus, K.
Etymology The term desi, a Hindustani term derived from Sanskrit desh (country or region), which is generally an endonym for the compatriot or local is often applied to food or drink that is considered traditional or native.
Prognosis The prognosis depends on prompt diagnosis and treatment, owing to the high mortality from DEG intoxication.
Kumi Kumi is so named for its cheap price, KSh.10/= for a mug, which in 2006 comes to roughly US$0.15.
In July/August 2017 millions of chicken eggs were blocked from sale or withdrawn from the market in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and France after elevated levels of fipronil were discovered by the Dutch food and product safety board.
The pure cocaine base can be recovered from the mixture by extraction (freebase) or acid-base extraction (hydrochloride) using common organic solvents such as methylene chloride or acetone.
There is no approved drug for the infection; however, Swiss researchers have tested tribendimidine and achieved a 70% cure rate.
Health regulators including the FDA have established requirements on the freezing of fish intended for raw consumption.
In the 1970s, most of the known cases of diphyllobothriasis came from Europe (5 million cases), and Asia (4 million cases) with fewer cases coming from North America and South America, and no reliable data on cases from Africa or Australia.
In October 2013, scientists released news of the discovery of type H, the first new botulism neurotoxin found in forty years.
Visitors to the city were no longer dissuaded from coming and commerce was reestablished as the panic dissipated.
Spanghero On 14 February 2013, the French government stated that France meat processing company À la Table de Spanghero knowingly sold horse meat labelled as beef, and that their licence was suspended while an inquiry took place.
Honey can contain the organism, and for this reason, honey should not be fed to children under 12 months.
On 29 October, Hong Kong authorities discovered a third batch of eggs containing excessive melamine.
On 14 September, the ban was extended to any sale of any alcoholic beverages with an alcohol content above 20% vol.
The presence of specific periplasmic proteins, such as TolA, TolB, TolC, or TonB, are required for translocation across the membrane.
It is consumed by many local tribes in Himachal Pradesh, such as Kinnara, Lahaula, Swangia and Pangwala.
Semiconductors that are p-doped contains a small amount of elements that have less valence electrons then the other elements in the crystal.
This immune adaptation involves developing specific defenses against common local bacteria, viruses, and parasites.
Jyoji Omori (大森 城司, 大森 譲治, 大森 譲次, Omori Jyoji; 1898 – 2 March 1938), Geo Omori or George Omori as he became known in Brazil, was a Japanese-born Brazilian martial artist who is credited for being one of the creators of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu.
It is unclear whether the toxins are produced by the fish themselves or by marine algae in their diet, but a dietary origin may be more likely.
Investigators have concluded that as-yet-unidentified individuals cooked up a protocol for a premix, a solution normally designed to fortify foods with vitamins or other nutrients but, in this case, it was poisonous.
Symptoms typically appear within ten to 30 minutes after ingestion, and may include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and tingling or burning lips, gums, tongue, face, neck, arms, legs, and toes.
During this time, Wilfrid was present in the organ loft during Queen Victoria's funeral and memorial service held on 2 February 1901.
History Escherichia coli O104:H21 was discovered in 1982, when it caused an outbreak of severe bloody diarrhea.
cholerae is stimulated by increasing cell density accompanied by nutrient limitation, a decline in growth rate, or stress.
Omori is considered instrumental in the foundation of Brazilian jiu-jitsu by establishing the first Jujitsu school in São Paulo.
It is prepared by boiling barley grains or rice and some local herb known as Phab in water and then fermenting the material.
A 2018 study of two commercially available kits showed low sensitivity with patients diagnose with NCC (neurocysticercosis) especially with calcified NCC versus patients with cystic hydatid disease.
In New York, Barker worked as a stage actress as well as a costume designer, designing the costumes for a 1926 Broadway production of No, No, Nanette.
This contributed to the growing criticism of Secretary of War Alger's handling of the Army during the war (a phenomenon that became known as "Algerism") and by the summer of 1899, President William McKinley decided that Alger had to go.
In 1905, Felix Gotschlich, a German physician at the El Tor station identified vibrios in stool specimen of two pilgrims returning from Mecca.
The illegal version of the product is often called guaro de contrabando ("smuggled guaro") and is produced by various methods, all through distillation, but with different base ingredients, typically fruits or sweets from other sources, molasses from sugarcane, or simply sugar.
Luria speculated that colicins could only be this toxic by causing a domino effect that destabilized the cell membrane.
The scandal As a result, most of the meat arriving in Cuba was found to be so poorly preserved, chemically adulterated, or spoiled so that it was toxic and dangerous to consume.
Shellfish containing 80 or more micrograms of saxitoxin per 100g of edible shellfish tissue are deemed to be unsafe for human consumption.
Symptoms usually develop 24 hours after being exposed, and recovery typically occurs within one to three days.
He died at the age of 26 on 5 November 1981, during the Ligue 1 match against USM Aïn Beïda in Stade 20 Août 1955 (Algiers), from severe food poisoning.
In popular culture The 2018 film Metanol, produced by the Czech Television, focuses on the distributors of the toxic alcohol and aftermath of the poisonings, including the investigation and eventual trial of perpetrators.
Ichthyoallyeinotoxism, or hallucinogenic fish inebriation, comes from eating certain species of fish found in several parts of the tropics, the effects of which are reputed to be similar in some aspects to LSD.
BACTIBASE database is an open-access database for bacteriocins including colicins (view complete list).
She also appeared in several Broadway productions as well as two films with Marion Davies: The Restless Sex (1920) and Enchantment (1921).
Notwithstanding, Fabbrini sued his suppliers, and the Michigan Court of Appeals awarded him $211,000 in 1979 (equivalent to $936,000 in 2025), though he closed his business a few years later.
government reported as many as 20% of all chickens were contaminated with Salmonella in the late 1990s, and 16.3% were contaminated in 2005.
Treatment Treatment of cysticercosis must be carefully monitored for inflammatory reactions to the dying worms, especially if they are located in the brain.
Salmonella was reported to be found in 46 states in the United States in at least 3,862 peanut butter-based products, such as crackers, energy bars, and peanut butter cookies from at least 343 food companies.
It is popular in Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama, although in many places the word "guaro" can refer to almost any liquor.
Blood donation organisations first considered relaxing the rules after the COVID-19 pandemic and some natural disasters that depleted the blood supply.
Fipronil contaminated eggs may have been sold for a long time prior to the discovery of high levels.
Technical grade is suitable for industrial applications, but is not acceptable for food or drug use.
Findus Sverige AB also announced a recall of its 375 gram packs of ready-made single-portion lasagne (code 63957), and published a contact number for customers who had already purchased the products.
External links Works by or about Anton Seidl at the Internet Archive "Anton Seidl collection of musical papers 1870–1943", Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University, New York Anton Seidl at Find a Grave
Citing public consensus that government should limit itself to a supervisory role, it urged the construction of a regulatory system which addressed the role of regulators watching over the production process, avoiding over-regulation, 'regulatory capture' and abuse of power by regulators.
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the first schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1958 (6 & 7 Eliz.
Chemistry and pharmacology BAT is derived from "despeciated" equine IgG antibodies, which have had the Fc portion cleaved off, leaving the F(ab')2 portions.
Named for Joseph Lister, Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive bacterium, in the phylum Bacillota.
Lucy Thompson, the deputy senior investigating officer said that there was no evidence to support Wright's claims that Travellers had threatened Wright and his family to force him to carry out the plot.
Katherine O'Brien conducted a case-control investigation, looking for potential clues to the epidemic.
An important target of coaR is tcpI, which negatively regulates expression of the major subunit of the TCP encoding gene (tcpA).
Panama's case made CDC set standardized methodology for DEG identification, hoping to have more timely response in future events.
It is consumed on festive occasions, religious festivals and other social gatherings.Jhol یا Jhol (هندی: Jhol) یک نوشیدنی الکلی است که در ایالت هیماچال پرادش در شمال هند تولید می شود .
ORT is one of the principal elements of the UNICEF "GOBI FFF" program (growth monitoring; ORT; breast feeding; immunization; female education; family spacing and food supplementation).
See also List of food contamination incidents References Further reading Boehm, Eric (February 9, 2023).
Age and emergence of new norovirus strains do not appear to affect the proportion of gastroenteritis attributable to norovirus.
She won the 1986 election, becoming the first woman elected to the West Virginia House of Delegates from her district.
According to WHO data, larvae of these two genera are killed by freezing at −10 °C (14 °F) for 5 days.
Other hallucinogenic fish are Siganus spinus, called "the fish that inebriates" in Reunion Island, and Mulloides flavolineatus (formerly Mulloidichthys samoensis), called "the chief of ghosts" in Hawaii.
He studied organ under Frederick Bridge as pupil and later assistant organist at Westminster Abbey from 1895 - 1904.
The term desi daru usually refers to legal alcohol while other types of country liquor (arrack and palm toddy) may be categorised as moonshine alcohol.
The main funding stream was the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (within the US Department of Health and Human Services' Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response).
Unwanted impurities Impurities can become unwanted when they prevent the working nature of the material.
Neurological signs include increased salivation, sweating, vertigo, lethargy, and diminished deep reflexes, sometimes followed by coma and death.
Epidemiology People at high risk for infection have traditionally been those who regularly consume raw fish.
From there, Benzer saw that it would be possible to generate many independent r mutants, and by measuring the recombination frequency between different r strains, he could map the substructure of a single gene.
If no reactions are noted, the rate is increased to 1 mL/min for another 30 minutes, and then if still no reaction is evident, to 2 mL/min for the remainder of the procedure.
Governor Milliken was presented with a frozen pizza by Fabbrini, who cooked pizzas on-site to feed the attendees.
PRC government The Chinese government said that producers violating the law "could have their licenses revoked and be handed over to law enforcement organs".
For example, Francis Crick and others used one of the peculiar r mutants Benzer had found (a deletion that fused the A and B cistrons of rII) to demonstrate the triplet nature of the genetic code.
Hutchison, M.D., treated people with Asiatic cholera at the Brooklyn, New York Cholera Hospital in 1854.
The Dutch owners of ChickFriend were arrested during a large scale operation conducted by Dutch law enforcement agencies on 10 August.
Discovery ASP was first discovered in humans late in 1987, when a serious outbreak of food poisoning occurred in eastern Canada.
With loggerheads (and other turtles under pressure from hunting) under legal protection against hunting, researchers hope that programs to discourage turtle consumption on health grounds may both increase turtle numbers and prevent human morbidity and mortality.
Threats A series of letters and emails were sent to Tesco, threatening to contaminate baby food with salmonella, white powder and knives.
Treatment of a cholera infection consists of replenishing lost fluid and electrolytes by intravenous or oral solutions, and by antibiotics.
The German anthropologist Christian Rätsch thinks that dreamfish might contain the hallucinogen DMT.
Filmography The Briefcase Marriage War Royal Tigress Behind the Mask My Calabar Wife Order of the Dragon Pocket Book Abada na South Death He died on 11 August 2021, at the age of 28 as a result of a suspected food poisoning.
Indonesia also suspended imports of beef from the US after a dairy cow with mad cow disease was discovered in California.
felineus are indistinguishable from clonorchiasis caused by Clonorchis sinensis, leading some to argue that the disease by these three parasites should be referred to collectively as clonorchiasis.
Some of the commonly used grades of purity include: ACS grade is the highest level of purity, and meets the standards set by the American Chemical Society (ACS).
The principal that three sequential bases of DNA code for each amino acid was demonstrated in 1961 using frameshift mutations in the rIIB gene of bacteriophage T4 (also see Crick, Brenner et al.
Testing of medication samples taken from the factory samples by both CDC and by an independent commercial lab located in Miami, revealed contamination by DEG of 16.4% and higher.
On June 1, 2007, the FDA warned consumers to avoid toothpaste from China, although there was no information if these toothpastes had already entered the US, and started testing any imported Chinese toothpaste.
The greatest number of reported cases have occurred in Texas (384), New Mexico (98), Illinois (100), and Arizona (49).
Retellings of this legend were elaborated to include Fils assuring horrified observers that spiders tasted like fresh strawberries (Anon.
Prevention After infection, immunity to the same strain of the virus – the genotype – protects against reinfection for six months to two years.
Pseudoalteromonas tetraodonis, certain species of Pseudomonas and Vibrio, and some other bacteria, produce the lethal tetrodotoxin, which is present in the tissues of some living animal species rather than being a product of decomposition.
Symptoms are dizziness, loss of equilibrium, lack of motor coordination, hallucinations and mental depression.
This route is the consequence of infected persons defecating near a water source, and uninfected persons consuming contaminated water.
He also attributed Fils' early death to "his bizarre notion of eating spiders" (Schubart 1806, 141).
In May 1881, he introduced at the Victoria Theatre, Berlin, the complete Ring tetralogy for the first time.
Twenty-two-year-old Viktoria Nikolaeva (Russian: Виктория Николаева), who was being treated in the intensive station of Akdeniz University's hospital in Antalya, died due to brain damage in the evening hours of June 20, 2011.
Escherichia coli O104:H21 is a rare serotype of Escherichia coli, a species of bacteria that lives in the lower intestines of mammals.
Desi daru (Hindi: देसी दारू), also known as country liquor or Indian-made Indian liquor (IMIL), is a local category of liquor produced on the Indian subcontinent, as opposed to Indian-made foreign liquor.
He worked with a number of lyricists including Frederic Weatherly KC, Helen Taylor, Edward Teschemacher, P.J.
Harrison Reed and William Tucker, shielded the dairies and turned the hearings into one-sided exercises designed to make dairy critics and established health authorities look ridiculous, even going to the extent of arguing that swill milk was as good or better for children than regular milk.
Individuals sometimes lace their own drugs with another substance to combine or alter the physiological or psychoactive effects.
Praziquantel The standard treatment for diphyllobothriasis (as well as many other tapeworm infections) is a single dose of praziquantel, 5–10 mg/kg orally once for both adults and children.
Anaemia may in turn result in subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord and cognitive decline.
Colicins exhibit a '1-hit killing kinetic' which does not necessarily mean a single molecule is sufficient to kill, but certainly that it only takes a small number.
cholerae in the intestinal lumen utilizes the TCP to attach to the intestinal mucosa, not invading the mucosa.
Colicins bind to outer membrane receptors, using them to translocate to the cytoplasm or cytoplasmic membrane, where they exert their cytotoxic effect, including depolarisation of the cytoplasmic membrane, DNase activity, RNase activity, or inhibition of murein synthesis.
Mr Justice Warby also asked for psychiatric reports on Wright to be prepared and warned Wright to be prepared for a "lengthy custodial sentence".
These shellfish are filter feeders and accumulate neurotoxins, chiefly saxitoxin, produced by microscopic algae, such as dinoflagellates, diatoms, and cyanobacteria.
The New York Academy of Medicine carried out an examination and established the connection of swill milk with the increased infant mortality in the city.
It was reported on July 27 that her condition had stemmed from food poisoning and that she was in "serious condition." Barker died a little over a week later on August 6, 1928.
bovis is usually transmitted to humans by consuming raw milk from infected cows, although it can also spread via aerosol droplets.
The reduced osmolarity solution has been criticized by some for not providing enough sodium for adults with cholera.
On 25 January 2010, it was reported that three food companies from Hebei, Liaoning and Shandong provinces had produced melamine tainted products in March and April 2009 and that the three companies were banned from selling products in Guizhou.
A national survey between 2006 and 2011 showed that it is the second most prevalent helminth accounting for 5.7% of the total infection, after hookworm with 9.6% of the infection.
Black cocaine (Spanish: coca negra) is a mixture of regular cocaine base or cocaine hydrochloride with various other substances.
Infection is mainly through drinking contaminated water or ingestion of food contaminated with faecal matter from an infected person, therefore is linked to sanitation and hygiene.
Other hallucinogenic fish are Siganus spinus, called "the fish that inebriates" in Reunion Island, and Mulloidichthys flavolineatus (formerly Mulloidichthys samoensis), called "the chief of ghosts" in Hawaii.
Another clinical trial, the BT-011 study, known also as Pharmacokinetics of Botulism Antitoxin Heptavalent in Pediatric Patients, was initiated to test the success of BAT in children who had contracted botulism (or had been suspected of contracting botulism).
Prior to his death, he was reportedly having breakfast at a hotel in Maryland area of Enugu State after completing a film shoot.
Since yellow fever frequently causes symptoms similar to bacterial food poisoning (fever, vomiting, severe or bloody diarrhea), little connection was made at the time between illness and consumption of the Chicago beef.
Whitbread Whitbread, which was at the time Britain's biggest hotel group, also discovered through tests that it had unknowingly sold concealed horse meat in food products.
During the incubation period, microbes pass through the stomach into the intestine, attach to the cells lining the intestinal walls, and begin to multiply there.
Dvořák had added that subtitle to the title page of his autograph score in Carnegie Hall just before turning it over to Seidl.
None of the people who attended the gathering wanted to stop attending to the needs of cholera patients.
Detective Inspector Lucy Thompson said "Wright is a dangerous offender who gave no thought to the babies he could have harmed during his callous pursuit of money." See also 2007 Tesco blackmail campaign Tesco bomb campaign Pedigree Chum dog food and Heinz extortion campaign == References ==
Opisthorchiasis has received less attention in comparison to other diseases, and it is a neglected disease in Asia.
Two main suspects were arrested: Rudolf Fian, a businessman from Karviná of Slovak nationality, and Tomáš Křepela, a Czech company owner from Řitka.
11) was an act of the Parliament of Great Britain concerning the adulteration of coffee, which made it illegal to debase coffee.
The toxins responsible for most shellfish poisonings—mainly saxitoxin, although several other toxins have been found, such as neosaxitoxin and gonyautoxins I to IV—are water-insoluble, and heat- and acid-stable.
When herbivores eat seagrass leaves they ingest algal epiphytes and toxic dinoflagellates that live on the seagrass leaves.
She taught at her alma mater, and two secondary schools, Ripley High School in Ripley, West Virginia and Schenectady High School in New York.
The general manager of the Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Company also denied that they had exported any wheat gluten to North America.
Immigration and career After moving to Brazil in 1925, he taught Jiu Jitsu and Judo in Rio de Janeiro, and in 1931 he opened a school in São Paulo in Edificio Martinelli, the first skyscraper in Brazil.
A 1928 issue of The New York Times highlighted one of his fights against a "negro" capoeira fighter, in which Geo Omori won.
The entire body is covered by a covering called a tegument, which is an absorptive layer consisting of a mat of minute specialised microvilli called microtriches.
Threatened by a sales cutoff ordered by urban public health officials, Vermont state government officials launched an innovative eradication campaign against bTB on farms, from 1877 to 1936.
Possible reasons to explain this increase include natural mechanisms of species dispersal (currents and tides) to a host of human-related phenomena such as nutrient enrichment (agricultural run-off), climate shifts, or transport of algae species via ship ballast water.
Filmography Stage credits Notes References External links Corinne Barker at IMDb Corinne Barker at the Internet Broadway Database Corinne Barker at Playbill Vault Corinne Barker at Find a Grave
Police found photos of contaminated baby food on his laptop with jars identical to those found in Rochdale.
bovis from wild vector species across 2.5 million hectares – or one-quarter – of New Zealand's at-risk areas, by 2026, and eventually eradicating the disease entirely.
The majority of toxic blooms have been caused by the morphospecies Alexandrium catenella, Alexandrium tamarense, Gonyaulax catenella and Alexandrium fundyense, which together comprise the A.
The CDC maintains "it is likely many more illnesses have occurred than those reported." If applying a previous CDC-estimated ratio of unreported salmonellosis cases to reported cases (38.6:1), an estimated 40,273 illnesses occurred from this outbreak.
Laboratory grade is suitable for use in educational settings, but is not acceptable for food or drug use.
These impurities can be naturally occurring and left unaltered in a material or be intentionally added during synthesis.
officials believe was the source of the melamine-contaminated gluten, are maintaining innocence and assert that they are cooperating with officials.
Adulteration As country liquor is cheaper than other spirits, there have been reports of mixing country liquor with Scotch/English whisky in many bars in India to maximise the profit.
coli responsible for at least 22 deaths in Northern Europe in May 2011 was reported to be caused by another O104 strain, Escherichia coli O104:H4.
Two other Russian citizens, Maria Shalyapina (Russian: Мария Шаляпина), born in 1983, and Aigul Zalayeva (Russian: Айгуль Залаева), born in 1991, died in the following days at the hospital of Akdeniz University in Antalya.
According to the Channel Islands Marine and Wildlife Institute, It is generally accepted that the incidence of problems associated with toxic algae is increasing.
Each proglottid is little more than a self-sustainable, very lightly ingestive, self-contained reproductive unit since tapeworms are hermaphrodites.
When recent Governor of Ceylon Viscount Torrington presented a petition in 1854 to similar, reinforcing effect, namely to counter the use of chicory for mixing—as coffee was by 1854 subject to a duty of 75% on top of the London market price—he stressed another piece of legislation had strong effect.
Further reading Abbreviated excerpt from Albert Steinberg's chapter in Finck 1899 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Wilson, J.
The experimental system is based on genetic crosses of different mutant strains of bacteriophage T4, a virus that infects the bacteria Escherichia coli.
This was considered a significant step in the US armamentarium for emergency use against a bioterrorist attack.
The initial FDA test results were overturned upon further investigation by the FDA and the Michigan state veterinarian.
Inside the snail tissue, the miracidia grow into sporocysts, that contain spore-like daughter cells.
The manifestations of listeriosis include sepsis, meningitis (or meningoencephalitis), encephalitis, corneal ulcer, pneumonia, myocarditis, and intrauterine or cervical infections in pregnant women, which may result in spontaneous abortion (second to third trimester) or stillbirth.
A child who cannot or will not eat this minimum amount should be given the diet by nasogastric tube divided into six equal feedings.
However, the terminological distinction between classifiers and measure words is often blurred – classifiers are commonly referred to as measure words in some contexts, such as Chinese language teaching, and measure words are sometimes called mass-classifiers or similar.
Fries, the distinguishing of function/structure words from content/lexical words has been highly influential in the grammar used in second-language acquisition and English-language teaching.
The modern situation results from regular apocope which removed a consonant from the masculine and the final schwa of the feminine.
In other languages, especially those with grammatical case, there is usually a separate form (for each declension if declensions exist) of the accusative case.
A transition or linking word is a word or phrase that shows the relationship between paragraphs or sections of a text or speech.
("Storage" and "files" are good examples of how human memory and computer memory have been linked to the same vocabulary; this was not always the case).
In the process of wishing to be associated with a certain class (usually the upper class and upper middle class) people who are moving in that direction socio-economically may adjust their speech patterns to sound like them.
An anti-society is a small, separate community intentionally created within a larger society as an alternative to or resistance of it.
The adverbial suffix -erweise added to adjectives is derived from the feminine singular genitive adjective ending -er agreeing with the noun Weise 'manner'.
Abstand and ausbau languages are concepts developed by sociolinguists to describe related language varieties, ranging from dialects of a single language to distinct languages.
They are descended from but not identical to the historical four tones of Middle Chinese, namely level (Chinese: 平; pinyin: píng), rising (上; shǎng), departing (去; qù), and entering (入; rù), each split into yin (陰; yīn) and yang (陽; yáng) registers, and the categories of high and low syllables.
Like the early records of the languages of exotic cultures, the information usually comes to us as word lists.
The category of transitive verb is defined as an element that requires two NPs (its subject and its direct object) to form a sentence.
There is some debate as to whether to classify it as a relative pronoun like the wh-words, a subordinating conjunction, or a complementizer.
(That they function as adverbs rather than as direct objects is clear from the rephrasing "I work during the day and sleep at night.") The modern British expression "Of an afternoon I go for a walk" has a similar origin, but uses the periphrasis "of + noun" to replace the original genitive.
This may include languages, dialects, registers, styles, or other forms of language, as well as a standard variety.
Research suggests that language is heavily peppered with such bundles in all registers; two examples include "do you want me to", commonly found in speech, or "there was no significant" found in academic registers.
List of modal particles Halt, eben and einmal[1] (in this context always in full) and nun einmal (shortened: nun mal) imply that the often-unpleasant fact expressed in a sentence cannot be changed and must be accepted.
In the field of sociolinguistics, social network describes the structure of a particular speech community.
Derivational suffixes fall into two categories: class-changing derivation and class-maintaining derivation.
How's it going?) At first, the receptionist uses a relatively formal register, as befits her professional role.
She argues that L2 writers often reorganize ideas and revise structure while composing, unlike L1 writers who may rely more on intuition and automatic grammar use.
For example: cuci → nyuci (to wash) tulis → nulis (to write) kopi (coffee) → ngopi (to drink coffee) sapu (broom) → nyapu (to sweep) tongkrong (hangout) → nongkrong (to hang out) pacul (hoe) → macul (to hoe) See also Apophony == References ==
In its place, the terms coordinating conjunction (coined in the mid-19th century) and correlative conjunction (coined in the early 19th century) became more commonly used.
There is also a distinction in meaning in the third person on whether or not the third-person possessive pronoun is used: He ottivat (omat) takkinsa.
Members of the working class tend to speak less of what is deemed standard language, while the lower, middle, and upper middle class will, in turn, speak closer to the standard.
Prowords are voice versions of the much older procedural signs for Morse code which were first developed in the 1860s for Morse telegraphy, and their meaning is identical.
Conjunctions The following conjunctions can be reconstructed: †Placed after the joined word, as in Latin Senatus populus-que Romanus ("Senate and people of Rome"), -que joining senatus and populus.
working on the LGSWE worked with four (these are not exhaustive, merely exemplary): conversation, literature, news, academic.
A word with a zero-morpheme is analyzed as having the morpheme for grammatical purposes, but the morpheme is not realized in speech.
In Javanese and colloquial Indonesian, simulfixation productively occurs to form active verbs and to derive verbs from noun bases.
One accessible format that offers an alternative to jargonized language is "easy read", which consists of a combination of plain language and images.
As with other types of language variation, there tends to be a spectrum of registers rather than a discrete set of obviously distinct varieties—numerous registers can be identified, with no clear boundaries between them.
This is similar to modern languages; compare English He is above in the attic (adverb) and The bird is above the house (preposition).
Korean noun particles include the subject particle i/ga (이/가), the object-marking particle eul/reul (을/를), and the topic-marking particle eun/neun (은/는), all of which show allomorphy.
Different endings mark words as the thing performing an action (subject), things directly receiving the action (direct object), things indirectly receiving the action and objects of prepositions (indirect object), objects of prepositions, and things possessed by other things (genitive).
= "They told they would come (themselves)." (The doer cannot be mentioned, even for emphasis, when it is the same as previously.) He kertoivat heidän tulevan.
Therefore, the Latin ending -anus became -ão in Portuguese and its feminine -ana became -ãa and then -ã.
The grammar of L 2 {\displaystyle L_{2}} , which has the form of a theory describing the syntactic structure of such factual descriptions, is stated in the meta–meta–metalanguage L 3 {\displaystyle L_{3}} , which likewise is a sublanguage of L 0 {\displaystyle L_{0}} .
Inflectional bound morphemes Inflectional morphemes modify the tense, aspect, mood, person, or number of a verb or the number, grammatical gender, or case of a noun, adjective, or pronoun without affecting the word's meaning or class (part of speech).
Social networks are at work in communities as large as nation-states or as small as an online dating service.
Trager for the stress pattern of a word, which he regarded as a special morpheme that combines and unifies the parts of a word.
Examples of simulfixes in English are generally considered irregularities, surviving results of Germanic umlaut.
Linguistic prescriptions also form part of the explanation for variation in speech, particularly variation in the speech of an individual speaker (for example, why some speakers say "I didn't do nothing", some say "I didn't do anything", and some say one or the other depending on social context).
They include: man → men, woman → women louse → lice, mouse → mice foot → feet, tooth → teeth The transfixes of the Semitic languages may be considered a form of discontinuous simulfix.
They may range from basic trade languages with limited vocabulary, to fully-fledged language systems, known as pidgins and creoles.
The time expressions morgens, mittags, abends, nachts, eines Tages (one day) and eines Nachts (one night; analogized with eines Tages, though Nacht is feminine) use the adverbial genitive.
In linguistics, languages are often studied in terms of seven major subsystems, which relate to major subfields within linguistics.
Most researchers agree that for most adults, acquiring a native-like accent in a non-native language is near impossible.
Sociolinguists concerned with grammatical and phonological features that correspond to regional areas are often called dialectologists.
Japanese particles Like Korean, Japanese noun particles follow the noun being marked, and can serve any of several functions in a given sentence.
Non-group members may also extensively employ features from an ethnic group's repertoire in their speech if they spend much of their time with the group members.
For example, omitting kan in the case of 時間 jikan would be a mistake, whereas shūkan and shū are both in frequent use.
There are linguists who suggest that a reduction of the domain of the term converb to adverbials does not fit language reality (e.g.
- orphan f.) charlatão - charlatã (conman - conwoman) The root cause of this disfixation is the loss of intervocalic -n- in the evolution of Latin to Portuguese.
From the latter part of the 18th century, grammar came to be understood as a subfield of the emerging discipline of modern linguistics.
Segments are called "discrete" because they are, at least at some analytical level, separate and individual, and temporally ordered.
This periphrastic form has variously been marked as used "particularly in isolated and mountainous regions of the southern United States" and as having "a distinctly literary feel".
See also Seme – Smallest unit of meaning Chroneme – Distinguishing feature of a sound system by vowel or consonant length References Further reading Chen, Tsuhan; Rao, R.
Contact languages have varying degrees of complexity, depending on the duration and intensity of social relations between the two groups.
In some case, the word used can be misleading; for example, a real number has nothing more (or less) real than an imaginary number.
When the contact language results from the merger of dialects that were already close to begin with, the resulting contact language is known as a koiné.
In English, the mnemonic acronym FANBOYS can be used to remember the most commonly used coordinators: for, and, nor, but, or, yet, and so.
Lemma retrieval, as explained through a spreading-activation theory, is part of a network of separate elements consisting of the abstract concept, the lemma and the lexeme.
Subsequently, he coined numerous -gate terms, including Billygate, Briefingate, Contragate, Deavergate, Debategate, Doublebillingsgate (of which he later said "My best [-gate coinage] was the encapsulation of a minor ...
Thus words such as pet, bell, and men are difficult for lip-readers to distinguish, as all look like alike.
English function words may be spelled with fewer than three letters; e.g., 'I', 'an', 'in', while non-function words usually are spelled with three or more (e.g., 'eye', 'Ann', 'inn').
Thai Thai has five phonemic tones: mid, low, falling, high and rising, sometimes referred to in older reference works as rectus, gravis, circumflexus, altus and demissus, respectively.
According to Dollinger, "pluriareality" is counter to "pluricentricity" and the latter violates the uniformitarian principle; it is an "empty term" and does not meet basic epistemological requirements.
The goal of linguistics with respect to accents is to catalogue them and to track, explain, and, occasionally, predict their evolution.
Examples of overlap for spoken languages can be found in discussions of phonological assimilation, coarticulation, and other areas in the study of phonetics and phonology, especially autosegmental phonology.
= "They told they (others) would come." (When a third person pronoun is mentioned as the subject of the second sentence, it must refer to someone other than the subject of the first sentence.) Hungarian Hungarian is another Uralic language.
Catena (graph-theoretic description) In terms of graph theory, any syntactic tree or connected subgraph of a tree is a catena.
By contrast, grammars describe the use of function words in detail but treat lexical words only in general terms.
Within this derivation, the history of the word is seen to have referred to the chanting of friars initially, used disparagingly some time between the 12th and 15th centuries.
An indeterminate pronoun is a pronoun which can show a variety of readings depending on the type of sentence it occurs in.
This can cause difficulties, for example, when a patient is unable to follow the discussions of medical practitioners, and thus cannot understand his own condition and treatment.
These are required for counting in the case of mass nouns, and some can also be used with count nouns.
Pontianak Teochew Pontianak Teochew is a variety of Indonesian Teochew that is spoken in the capital city of Pontianak in the province of West Kalimantan.
Noun Classes and Categorization: Proceedings of a Symposium on Categorization and Noun Classification, Eugene, Oregon, October 1983.
A contact language is a language developed spontaneously by two (or more) populations, each initially speaking their own language, as they come into regular contact and find ways to communicate together – whether for trade or other reasons.
The suffix has become productive as a libfix and is used to embellish a noun or name to suggest the existence of a far-reaching scandal, particularly in politics and government.
that it is an error to begin a sentence with a conjunction such as and, but, or so has no historical or grammatical foundation", and good writers have frequently started sentences with conjunctions.
For example, ships in their own territorial waters might be allowed to use their native language, but when navigating at sea or communicating with foreign vessels in their own territorial waters, they should switch to SMCP, and will state the switch over the radio before using the procedures.
The primary driving forces in the creation of technical jargon are precision, efficiency of communication, and professionalism.
In order to form a relative construction, the noun phrase from the embedded clause is promoted to the empty head of the noun phrase of the main clause.
For example, in response to the question "Which students got an A?", the utterance "Ava got an A" has an exhaustive interpretation when it conveys that no other students got an A.
There may also be irregular nouns where the declensions are unique for each word (like irregular verbs with conjugation).
In logic usually the object language that the metalanguage is discussing is a formal language, and very often the metalanguage as well.
Kranzmayer has been instrumental, Dollinger claims, in teaching many Austrian dialectologists a monocentric view of German.
However, in some languages, including English and Latin, even many roots cannot stand alone; i.e., they are bound morphemes.
The character 把 bǎ was originally a verb meaning to grasp/grip, but is now more commonly used as the noun for "handle", and as the classifier for "handful".
Adverbs derived from adjectives Adverbs derived from adjectives (like English bold-ly, beautiful-ly) arguably cannot be classified as particles.
To continue with the Hebrew example: On the other hand, "I see a dog" is simply This example is obviously a specialized use of the nota accusativi, since Hebrew does not use the nota accusativi unless the noun is in the definitive.
This particular noun particle denotes direction towards a place, being "supermarket." The three noun particles ("wa," "ga," and "o") all serve different functions: "wa" - topic marker ("hirugohan" - lunch) "ga" - subject marker ("watashi" - I) "o" - object marker ("piza" - pizza) == References ==
Sociolinguistics The term variety in sociolinguistics is used as a cover term for dialects, registers, and other forms of language, including standard languages.
However, an alternative that has received some support is to treat an intervocalic consonant as ambisyllabic, i.e.
In other words, the affix is attached to a bare base that has no other suprasegmental pattern underlyingly.
The use of the word variety to refer to the different forms avoids the use of the term language, which many people associate only with the standard language, and the term dialect, which is often associated with non-standard language forms thought of as less prestigious or "proper" than the standard.
These anti-languages do not have complete lexicons, cannot be observed in use for linguistic description, and therefore cannot be studied in the same way a language spoken by an existing anti-society would.
Another theory is that taste of rabbit meat is similar to bird meat, and in addition, the rabbits were captured using a net just like birds so -wa (羽) is used instead of -hiki (匹).
L 4 {\displaystyle L_{4}} and succeeding metalanguages have the same grammar as L 3 {\displaystyle L_{3}} , differing only in reference.
In addition, particular subfields of linguistic inquiry may divide their subject matter into more specific subsystems.
The term "indeterminate pronoun" originates in Kuroda's (1965) thesis and is typically used in reference to wh-indeterminates, which are pronouns which function as an interrogative pronoun in questions, yet come to have additional meanings with other grammatical operators.
Basic terminology In modern usage, a definition is something, typically expressed in words, that attaches a meaning to a word or group of words.
The term is most used in phonetics and phonology to refer to the smallest elements in a language, and this usage can be synonymous with the term phone.
"My all many very young children" is not grammatical because a central determiner cannot precede a predeterminer.
Lexical selection experiments have provided evidence that lemma retrieval is affected by the frequency of the word.
It means that the caller, their vessel or a person aboard the vessel is in grave and imminent danger, send immediate assistance.
In linguistics, measure words are words (or morphemes) that are used in combination with a numeral to indicate an amount of something represented by some noun.
Some linguists, especially when discussing the modern Chinese varieties, use the terms "final" and "rime" interchangeably.
This can be a particular problem for dyslexics, affecting their phonemic awareness, as well as a hurdle for non-native speakers.
For example, in some of the Khoisan languages, most content words begin with clicks, but very few function words do.
ethnic varieties) while others are considered as a repertoire of linguistic features associated with the ethnic group that are employed in ethnic variation.
In the word unkind, un- functions as a derivational morpheme since it inverts the meaning of the root morpheme (word) kind.
Allomorphy in English involves the variation of morphemes in their phonetic form based on specific linguistic contexts, a phenomenon governed by morphophonemic rules.
When the resulting language shows a rough balance between elements of both original languages, it is labelled a hybrid or mixed language.
The New York magazine suggested that his aim in doing so was "rehabilitating Nixon by relentlessly tarring his successors with the same rhetorical brush – diminished guilt by association".
("Are you not going home?" "Oh, yes, I am going in a moment".) (Affirmation of a negative question; obligatory.) Komm doch her!
Japanese In Japanese, the particle を (pronounced お o) is the direct object marker and marks the recipient of an action.
Loan words from other languages, particularly Latin and the Romance languages, often preserve their gender-specific forms in English, e.g.
Common examples are case endings, which indicate the grammatical case of nouns and adjectives, and verb endings, which form the conjugation of verbs.
See also Null allomorph Alternation (linguistics) Allophone Consonant mutation Grassmann's law Suppletion References External links The dictionary definition of allomorph at Wiktionary
This suprasegmental pattern acts like segmental phonemes within a morpheme; the suprafix is a combination of suprasegmental phonemes, organized into a pattern, that creates a morpheme.
In this case, the main predicate in English consists of two words corresponding to one word in French.
In 2025, the issue is framed as "breaking up the One Standard German Axiom because it reeks of pan-German thought and belongs into the dustbin of history".
In essence, the lexical corpus seems to be built on the premise that language use is best approached as an assembly process, whereby the brain links together ready-made chunks.
The same referent can be referred to by nouns with different noun classes, such as die Frau "the woman" (feminine) and das Weib "the woman (archaic, pejorative)" (neuter) in German.
Notes References Dunkel, George E (2014), Lexikon der indogermanischen Partikeln und Pronominalstämme, Carl Winter Universitätsverlag, ISBN 978-3-8253-5926-3 Fortson, Benjamin W.
In popular culture The suffix has also been commonly used in the context of popular media, including satirical usage by television pundits and viewers of reality shows.
Words that are not function words are called content words (or open class words, lexical words, or autosemantic words) and include nouns, most verbs, adjectives, and most adverbs, although some adverbs are function words (like then and why).
("I was indeed at the party, but I did not enjoy myself.") That should not be confused with the adverbial meaning of the unstressed schon, "already".
They argue that the concept is Anglocentric, since it was developed on the basis of the grammar of English and similar languages of north-western Europe.
Etymology The word syntax comes from the ancient Greek word σύνταξις, meaning an orderly or systematic arrangement, which consists of σύν- (syn-, "together" or "alike"), and τάξις (táxis, "arrangement").
When meaning is constructed in such a manner that does not allow one to acknowledge meaning chunks as constituents, the catena is involved.
It has a non-exhaustive interpretation when it merely conveys that Ava was among the students who got an A.
IV (2004), Indo-European Language and Culture, Blackwell Publishing, ISBN 1-4051-0316-7 Schenk, W (1998), Handwörterbuch Russisch (in German), Munich: Langenscheidt, ISBN 3-468-07291-0
(The -n on the word talon is the accusative case, which is pronounced the same as the genitive case.) For emphasis or clarification, the possessor can be given outside the word as well, using the genitive case.
Pronunciation in a second or foreign language involves more than the correct articulation of individual sounds.
In English, a comma is used to separate a dependent clause from the independent clause if the dependent clause comes first: After I fed the cat, I brushed my clothes.
For example, the Tibetan word ལྟ་བ (Wylie: lta ba, IPA: [ˈta˥˥.wa]), with stress on the first syllable is a verb, meaning “to look”, while its homograph ལྟ་བ (Wylie: lta ba, IPA: [ta˥˥.ˈwa]), with stress on the second syllable is a noun, meaning a “view/outlook/sight”.
A major theoretical issue is whether exhaustivity is a semantic entailment encoded in the grammar, a pragmatic implicature arising from Gricean social cognition, or some combination of the two.
As a functional head Some theoretical approaches regard determiners as heads of their own phrases, which are described as determiner phrases.
Applications Sociolinguistics can be divided into subfields, which make use of different research methods, and have different goals.
These changes are followed fairly consistently but exceptions and variations between speakers do exist.
The segmental phonemes of sign language (formally called "cheremes") are visual movements of hands, face, eye blinks, and body.
Conversely, the Arrernte language of central Australia may prohibit onsets altogether; if so, all syllables have the underlying shape VC(C).
For example: There are numerous Chinese measure words, and nouns differ in what measure words they can use.
Some linguists have argued that speech is best understood as bimodal (aural and visual), and comprehension can be compromised if one of these two domains is absent.
Transitions "connect words and ideas so that [...] readers don't have to do the mental work for [themselves]." Transitions reveal the internal structure of an author's reasoning.
Cross-linguistically, relativizers may occupy either the head of a complementizer phrase (C-Type Relativizer) or the head of a determiner phrase (D-Type Relativizer).
Despite that contrasting nomenclature and notwithstanding their disparate lexical categories, relativizers and relative pronouns essentially perform the same function by way of introducing a relative clause.
It is best translated as "well", "really" or "let me think...": A: Hast du Lust meinen Geschirrspüler auszuräumen?
Out-group use Some speakers who are not part of a particular ethnic group may also make use of elements of the group's ethnolect, which can include behaviours like crossing or passing when people imitate an ethnic stereotype or assimilate to an ethnic group's behaviour to be included.
Description Measure words denote a unit of measurement and are used with mass nouns (uncountable nouns), and in some cases also with count nouns.
Quantification Jargon has been quantified using a piecewise mathematical function called jargonness, which maps the frequencies of appearance of a word in scientific and contemporary English corpora to a parameter—called jargonness itself—quantifying the word's association with scientific jargon.
It is impossible to insert an article, or to use a different article: on account of but not *on an/the account of; for the sake of but not *for a sake of.
Subscribing to language features commonly associated with a particular ethnic group works to either affiliate or distance themselves from a particular ethnic group.
In a natural language there is an infinite regress of metalanguages, each with more specialized vocabulary and simpler syntax.
Korean particles Korean noun particles are postpositional, following the word they mark, as opposed to prepositions which precede the marked word.
Korean In Korean, the postposition 을 eul or 를 reul is the direct object marker and marks the recipient of an action.
Normally this consists of three steps: At least one thing is stated to be a member of the set being defined; this is sometimes called a "base set".
See also Alternative semantics Focus Free choice inference Scalar implicature References Bibliography Chierchia, Gennaro (2004).
American Sign Language In American Sign Language classifier constructions are used to express position, stative description (size and shape), and how objects are handled manually.
Yet, the same verbal suffix is used after the verb ‘to beat’ which ends an independent non-finite clause that temporally precedes the following clause but without modifying it in any way that would be fit for an adverbial.
Otherwise, the object is modified by a possessive pronominal suffix, by virtue of being a nomen regens within a genitive phrasing, or as a proper name.
Standard language is a variety promoted by some social group, either officially or unofficially, as the preferred form.
Categories Transition words and phrases categories include: Conclusion, Continuation, Contrast, Emphasis, Evidence, Illustration and Sequence.
'in a fortunate way' or more explicitly ‘in a manner of good fortune’ (which also hints at the possessive role of the case).
See also Alternative semantics Free choice inference Indefinite pronoun Wh-movement == References ==
For example, in spoken English /l/ and /r/ can often sound quite similar (especially in clusters, such as 'grass' vs.
The conditioning can still be seen in the locative singular form, for which the /t͡ʃ/ is followed by the high front vowel /i/.
When a person produces a word, they are essentially turning their thoughts into sounds, a process known as lexicalisation.
The word or group of words that is to be defined is called the definiendum, and the word, group of words, or action that defines it is called the definiens.
("I have already been living here for two entire decades.") Rein often precedes gar to point out the total lack of something: Ich habe rein gar nichts gemacht!
The existence and codification of a distinct Montenegrin standard is a matter of controversy, some treat Montenegrin as a separate standard lect, and some think that it should be considered another form of Serbian.
It is by analogy with phoneme that other emic units, such as the morpheme and the grapheme, were named using the -eme suffix.
The idea of grammatical cases is also traced back to the Stoics, but it is still not completely clear what the Stoics exactly meant with their notion of cases.
In simple terms, a transition word demonstrates the relationship between two portions of a text or spoken language.
A movement analysis of this answer fragment would have to assume that both Susan and Larry have moved out of the encompassing constituent so that that constituent can be elided.
This variability is not random but follows predictable patterns, such as the insertion of a schwa [ə] or assimilation to the voicing of the preceding consonant.
The term derives from tangente, which means 'kickback' (e.g., bribery given for public works contracts), and -(o)poli, meaning 'city'.
History of creation The concept of the dictema was put forward by Mark Bloch in the mid-twentieth century in connection with a scientific discussion on the communicative units of language as described by Ferdinand de Saussure of the Geneva School, as well as Professor Alexander Smirnitsky.
See also English prepositions List of English prepositions Old English prepositions Spanish prepositions Japanese particles Relational noun References Bibliography Haspelmath, Martin.
See also Monosyllabic language References External links The dictionary definition of monosyllable at Wiktionary Little Frank and other tales: Chiefly in words of one syllable (1838)
Some languages, such as Finnish, have possessive affixes which play the role of possessive determiners like my and his.
Thus, following the creation of morphology by Dionysius Thrax and syntax by Apollonius Dyscolus, the isolation of the dictema represents another key stage in the history of grammar.
and immediately start auctioning off their merchandise") and secondly means talk ("very entertaining conversation was often described as 'great cant'" or "crosstalk").
Some of the longest monosyllabic words in the English language, all containing nine letters each, are "screeched," "schlepped," "scratched," "scrounged," "scrunched," "stretched," "straights," and "strengths".
The vowels and consonants that are allowed in an unstressed syllable differ from those that are allowed in a stressed syllable.
There are also rare instances of individuals who are able to pass for native speakers even if they learned their non-native language in early adulthood.
inferential), presents a consequence ("He gambled well last night, so he smoked a cigar to celebrate.") Correlative conjunctions Correlative conjunctions are conjunctions within a syntax that aggregates or contrasts correlated actions, characteristics, or items in the manner of: 1.
However, in the 19th century, with the development of historical-comparative linguistics, linguists began to realize the sheer diversity of human language and to question fundamental assumptions about the relationship between language and logic.
To reveal social practices and cultural norms beyond lexical and syntactic levels, the framework includes empirical testing of the translation using methods such as cognitive interviewing with a sample population.
In psychology, a lemma (pl.: lemmas or lemmata) is an abstract conceptual form of a word that has been mentally selected prior to the early stages of speech production.
The Combined Communications-Electronics Board (representing military use by Australia, Canada, New Zealand, United Kingdom and United States) sets out their usage in the Allied Communications Publications "ACP 135(F) Communications instructions Distress and Rescue Procedures".
Suprasegmentals Some contrastive elements of speech cannot be easily analyzed as distinct segments but rather belong to a syllable or word.
Casual: In-group friends and acquaintances; no background information provided; ellipsis and slang common; interruptions common.
In sociolinguistics, a variety, also known as a lect or an isolect, is a specific form of a language or language cluster.
In turn, Professor Bloch considered the level of language units that had gone unnoticed, namely the levels of the phoneme and morpheme, to which he added the "third integral level of constructions with blurred boundaries" – syntax.
However, even since that case established that acts under the prerogative could be justiciable, it has been held in subsequent cases that Crown acts of state fell into a narrow exception to this rule.
The Autism Awareness Campaign – United Kingdom was launched in 2000 by British parents and carers Ivan Corea and his wife Charika Corea in response to the autism diagnosis of their son, Charin.
Though some anticipated creation of public interest duties, the Report took the approach of asking whether institutional investors were acting in the best interests of their beneficiaries.
In April 2021, amendments were proposed to the Domestic Abuse bill to add serial domestic abusers and stalkers to the register, to give family court judges training on dealing with sexual abuse and to provide greater protection for migrant domestic violence victims.
Attorney-General Sir Rufus Isaacs, advised the king that it would be unconstitutional for him to give evidence in his own court.
Three of these countries; Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales, have their own devolved legislatures and governments and are represented in some international intergovernmental organisation separately from the United Kingdom as a whole.
Origin of the bill The vestry committees evolved in ecclesiastical parishes out of the feudal system and the removal of the influence of the Church after the Reformation.
(In distinction, burghs of barony were granted to a tenant-in-chief, a landowner who held his estates directly from the crown, and had fewer civil and criminal law powers).
With membership still limited to retired servicemen and immediate family, the club assumed the present name in 1970, when membership was opened to serving personnel and families.
It soon became a regular practice for them to appoint a knight to attend in the Exchequer and carry out their duties.
In 1275 Isabel de Forz, the eldest daughter of Baldwin de Redvers, 6th Earl of Devon, and 8th Countess of Devon in her own right, alienated her chamberlainship-in-fee to her steward, the moneylender Adam de Stratton.
Appeals can be made to the local police force by an offender after inclusion on the register for 15 years.
Ivan Corea met with the British prime minister-in-Waiting, Gordon Brown in June 2007 to urge him to launch the national strategy and 10-year plan on autism, particularly in building state-of-the-art "autism schools".
The Senior President can also represent the views of tribunal members to Parliament, the Lord Chancellor and government ministers.
Nootka crisis with Spain, 1789–1795 The Nootka Crisis was a crisis with Spain starting in 1789 at Nootka Sound, an unsettled area at the time that is now part of British Columbia.
62–64 Smith, William Charles; Bateson, Mary (1911), "Borough" , in Chisholm, Hugh (ed.), Encyclopædia Britannica, vol.
The Financial Services Act 1986 (FSAct) followed the white paper, receiving royal assent in November 1986.
In 2006 new guidelines were issued for the retention of records until the subject reached 100 years of age, but after 5 or 10 years, depending on the severity of the offence, they would be used only for DBS checks.
It reviewed the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and of the audit committee, aiming at improving and strengthening the existing Combined Code.
In 1979 part of the BBC's adaptation of the final episode of John le Carré's "Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy" was shot there.
Regional seats of government or RSGs were the best known aspect of Britain's civil defence preparations against nuclear war.
See also Autistic rights movement Autism Awareness ribbon Consciousness raising Health inequality in the United Kingdom Outline of autism World Autism Awareness Day References External links Autism Awareness Campaign UK: Campaigning for all people with Autism (official website)
Back in 2001 UK pension funds were only investing 0.5% of their portfolio into venture capital, whereas the US equivalents invested 5%.
It was a subject of persistent reports of torture by the prisoners confined there, which included war crimes suspects from the SS and Gestapo held in the facility after the war.
In addition the SIB also recognised other bodies that conducted day-to-day regulation of investment business:- Recognised professional bodies (RPBs) (nine in total including the Law Society) Recognised Investment Exchanges (RIEs) Recognised Clearing Houses (RCHs) References Swift, Hollie.
In recent years, the doctrine has been used in cases involving alleged tortious acts committed by British forces in Iraq or Afghanistan, such as in Rahmatullah (No 2) v Ministry of Defence; Mohammed v Ministry of Defence.
The panel will be an ad hoc collection of professionals chosen to meet the young person's needs; typically their parents, teachers, youth workers, social workers, Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) workers, or other relevant people will be involved.
Vehicle File: Provides details on the registered keeper of a motor vehicle, as well as storing other information from the DVLA as to the vehicle's status (Tax Expired, V23 Submitted, Stolen, Chassis Number, Engine Number etc.).
Intelligence and Operations Sub-Section, responsible for recording and analysing information and preparing instructions.
Because of its convenience as a BBC facility, Wood Norton was used for some of the filming of the 1970 Doctor Who serial Spearhead from Space.
The King, with the advice of Home Secretary Winston Churchill, issued proceedings against Mylius for criminal libel and said he was prepared to go into the witness box to disprove the allegations.
Collar numbers are allocated as follows: Metropolitan Police A number, followed by one or two letters indicating the station/sector, borough, or unit.
7700) and much was published in series of verbatim testimonies released as command papers throughout 1949.
Many are connected with safety or engineering and, as such, are considered important documents for those working in those areas.
These acts were promoted by William Sturges Bourne, MP and Chairman of a Committee to reform the Poor Laws, and are therefore also known as the Sturges Bourne Acts.
Industrial Civil Defence Service The Industrial Civil Defence Service was a similar organisation to the Civil Defence Corps, but separate from it.
But by the late Middle Ages the office holder was elected from among a hundred's notable landholding families.
A police officer of one of the three legal systems has all the powers of a constable throughout their own legal system but limited powers in the other two legal systems.
National security concerns There are some cases in which publicity in a courtroom proceeding can be detrimental.
The road was labelled "Britain's most expensive road" by the Glasgow Evening Times and Green MSP Patrick Harvie said the money should instead have been used to fund active and public transport improvements.
A number of European Union countries such as Spain, Germany and Italy had stated that sex offenders' registration as in the UK was a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Other examples of 16th century goldsmith work were used to inform the fine details, particularly the Crown of Scotland.
The parliamentary under-secretary of state for digital ID is a junior position in the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology and the Cabinet Office in the British government.
See also War Office Directorate of Military Intelligence (United Kingdom) References External links Cobain, Ian (12 November 2005).
YISPs were originally piloted in April 2003, and following the successful pilot there were (as of March 2009) 122 YISPs in the UK.
The squatters moved in while the embassy was vacant in 1976, and in 1988 they would have gained title to the building following twelve years of continuous occupation.
The plan was stress tested by government in late 2022 to deal with possible outages caused by fuel shortages as a consequence of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
1510 – 1576), Lord Justice Clerk George Buchanan (1506–1582), historian and humanist scholar John Scot, Lord Scotstarvit (1585–1670), judge and satirist See also Chancery (medieval office) Lord Chancellor of Scotland == References ==
In recent years, when governments try to cope with thorny problems such as terrorism, there are concerns that the principle of open justice can be undermined relatively easily by national security concerns.
Higgs viewed the earlier scandals, which led to the Cadbury Report could have been avoided had a Code been in place.
A territorial police force is a police service that is responsible for an area defined by sub-national boundaries, distinguished from other police services which deal with the entire country or a type of crime.
This right is covered in two parts: Public authorities must regularly publish updates and information regarding their activities, and Members of the public can make requests for information and updates regarding the activities of public authorities.
Since Members of Parliament are not permitted to resign, they are instead appointed to an "office of profit under the Crown", which requires MPs to vacate their seats.
However, the commission did not believe that the United Kingdom's media could be characterized as being a monopoly and dismissed claims that advertisers had undue influence.
The LGCL was merged with the Government Category List, and the seamlessUK taxonomy to form the Integrated Public Sector Vocabulary (IPSV) as part of the UK Government e-GMS initiative.
The accommodation was extended, with construction starting in 1954 on an adjacent site, and the Memorial Wing being opened by Prime Minister Winston Churchill in 1956.
Lord mayor is a title of a mayor of what is usually a major city in a Commonwealth realm or the former British Empire, with special recognition bestowed by the sovereign of the United Kingdom.
History By 1536, King Henry VIII had broken with the Holy See, seized assets of the Catholic Church in England and Wales and declared the Church of England as the established church with himself as its supreme head.
It has a long history dating back hundreds of years, and it has been traced to decisions made before the signing of Magna Carta in 1215.
Locations Sites for dispersing government were selected in 1966 based on their existing accommodation, independence from the national power and water grids, nuclear fallout protection and distance from likely targets.
While the UK still intended to hand over the Chagos Islands, it sought to retain the joint UK-US military base on Diego Garcia for at least 99 years.
It also acts as the provincial police service in every province except for Ontario, and Quebec, which operate provincial police services, as well as Newfoundland and Labrador, which is served by the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary.
Critics, including Trump’s Secretary of State Marco Rubio, warn of security risks due to Mauritius' ties with China.
Before and after the end of the Second World War various radio stations were set up, some using the FBS name, others using the name British Forces Network (BFN), but by the early 1960s these had all adopted the BFBS name.
2024 18 December - Mauritius’s newly elected Prime Minister Navin Ramgoolam reopens talks with the UK, issuing counterproposals to the existing deal for Britain to transfer control of the islands.
Despite the limitations coming from outside the League, he largely decided how he would run the office since he was very seldom under any kind of supervision.
Wood Norton Hall itself was a privately owned hotel and conference centre, but closed in 2005, reopening under new management the following year.
Cautions will appear on a DBS certificate until 6 years have passed (or 2 years if the person was under 18 at the time of caution) provided the offence is not on the prescribed list of offences that will never be filtered from a criminal record check.
A young person who is identified to be "at risk" of offending will be offered the chance to appear before the panel.
From 1995 cautions were recorded on the Police National Computer, and it was recommended that cautions should be retained for 5 years, though each police force could follow its own guidelines.
These rights were abolished by the Heritable Jurisdictions (Scotland) Act 1746, after which the burghs enjoyed only the jurisdictional rights of burghs of barony.
Programme Yarrow is a British government contingency plan to deal with possible nationwide power blackouts.
2007 House of Commons autism debate and meeting with Prime Minister The Autism Awareness Campaign helped raise "awareness" about the condition in 2007 in the House of Commons when Lee Scott, MP for Ilford North, brought a debate on autistic children.
The Archbishop of Canterbury, Geoffrey Fisher, argued that the expanded list of Commonwealth realms should be condensed into a single formula, but this was rejected by the Commonwealth Relations Office.
The British government aimed to make savings of up to £3 billion per year on current expenditure by 2015, primarily in the pre-construction phase.
While that government was recognised by Britain, no diplomatic mission was established before Cambodia was invaded by Vietnam in 1978, and the building came into the care of the British Foreign Office.
Freedom of information fulfilment To meet the first of the two requirements of freedom of information in the UK, outlining regular publication of information by public authorities, the law calls for organizations to develop publication schemes.
We have therefore, upon mature Deliberation, and with the Advice of so many of Our Bishops as might conveniently be called together, thought fit to make this Declaration following ...
In 2015, the British army regiment the Irish Guards formed Irish Guards GAA to take part in London junior championships.
Responsibilities The minister has responsibility of the following policy areas: Public sector reform Digital ID Digital products Data policy List of ministers == References ==
The Senior President of Tribunals can make representations to the Parliament of the United Kingdom about tribunal members and the administration of justice by tribunals.
The class of acts so protected has not been accurately defined: one formulation is 'those acts of the Crown which are done under the prerogative in the sphere of foreign affairs'.
Meanwhile, the English eight-mile (thirteen-kilometre) section of A74 was not upgraded due to lack of funds, leaving the "Cumberland Gap" of dual carriageway between the three-lane motorways.
This wording avoided the charge that the monarchy was claiming divinity or subordinating Jesus of Nazareth (whom the Christian Bible explicitly identified as the head of the Church in the Epistle to the Ephesians).
As the area was wild and notorious for outlaws, a steward and bailiff was appointed directly by the Crown (thus as a royal bailiwick it was a legal office answerable to the reigning monarch) to maintain law and order.
They were created between 1450 and 1707, and conferred upon the landowner varying trading rights, such as the right to hold weekly markets or to trade overseas.
The members of the commission were appointed by royal warrant on 14 April 1947, with Sir William David Ross – the pro-vice chancellor of the University of Oxford and fellow of the British Academy – chosen as chairman.
Military operations and peacekeeping Under the United Nations Command, the United Kingdom participated in the Korean War from 1950 to 1953.
The standard also includes a commitment that terms will never be removed from the list, but may change status or move position in the hierarchy between versions.
Infrastructure UK estimated that the efficiencies achieved as a result of the report would save the taxpayer more than £50 billion in the following decade.
A year later, in December 1941, it became an independent organisation, though still closely associated with its parent.
International coverage about the Autism Awareness Campaign UK was also given on Associated Press and the campaigners received national coverage in the United Kingdom.
The United Kingdom and the USSR agreed a military alliance the next month with the Anglo-Soviet Agreement.
The Treasury describes the database as "a web based multi-dimensional database used by HM Treasury to collect financial information".
These corps usually have a wide brief for assisting in large scale civil emergencies such as flood, earthquake, invasion, or civil disorder.
Rider Haggard, as the Veterans' Association in 1907, providing services to retired members of the armed forces.
His appeal with the US State Department was denied, but he was successful in federal court, a judge ruling in February 1913 that libel was not a crime of moral turpitude.
Region 3 (North Midlands) Plans for a new site at Grantham were abandoned, as new assumptions about Soviet targeting strategy assumed that Nottingham would avoid heavy fallout, and so to save money the old War Room there was expanded to serve as the RSG.
Constitutionally, there was some opposition on the part of ministers to the creation of an office that might grow to have considerable influence upon the sovereign.
The private secretary is the principal channel of communication between the monarch and the governments in most of the Commonwealth realms.
Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors (or the "Higgs review") was a report chaired by Derek Higgs on corporate governance commissioned by the UK government, published on 20 January 2003.
In 1921, the Anglo-Soviet Trade Agreement successfully opened trade relations with Communist Russia.
One intention is for it to be viewed from the motorway, although there will be no motorway signs to indicate the structure.
See also Burgh, borough, and ancient borough List of burghs in Scotland Kilwinning Abbey Lords of Regality Notes References Smith, William Charles (1878), "Borough" , in Baynes, T.
History COINS replaced three separate systems previously used by the British Government, Public Expenditure System (PES), Government Online Data System (GOLD) and General Expenditure Monitoring System (GEMS).
The office of Director of Chancery (or Chancellory), the keeper of the Quarter Seal of Scotland, was formerly a senior position within the legal system of Scotland.
If the GAA ended its prohibition on membership, a reformed police force would be more likely to attract nationalist recruits.
The League of Nations' Council relied on the willingness of its members to use their militaries to apply its collective security mandate during crises.
Where the available evidence does not meet the standard normally required to bring a prosecution, a caution cannot be administered.
The Maudit chamberlainship descended to the Beauchamp Earls of Warwick and passed into the hands of the Crown in 1483 upon the accession of Richard III, son-in-law of the 16th Earl.
It was created alongside the East–West Council as part of a DUP deal behind the 2024 Northern Ireland Executive formation.
Established in 1983 as a membership organisation for UK local authorities, the LGiU states that its mission is to strengthen local democracy and put citizens in control of their own lives, communities and services.
The post of Crown Steward and Bailiff of the three Chiltern Hundreds of Stoke, Desborough and Burnham remained a nominal office of profit under the Crown, even though it had lost its original significance.
The agreement has drawn mixed reactions, with then US President Joe Biden supporting it as “historic,” while critics, including allies of then US President-elect Donald Trump, opposing it.
The Corsham bunker, given the new codename "Turnstile" from 1963 and "Chanticleer" from 1970, would play an important part in the lead up to war but ceased to have a CGWHQ role other than as a possible aggregation point for Python groups some time after an attack.
After months of planning, the UN Conference on International Organization opened in San Francisco in April 1945 attended by 50 governments and a number of non-governmental organisations involved in drafting the United Nations Charter.
England Intergovernmental organisations England has no devolved legislature or government and is therefore not represented in intergovernmental organisations.
The oath has three parts; the first to govern in compliance with the laws and customs of the people, the second to govern justly, and the third, to uphold Protestant Christianity and the rights of the Church of England, reflecting the monarch's role as Supreme Governor of the Church of England.
That is, if they have not needed to inform the police of any changes above, they must attend a designated police station to register if they have not done so for a year.
It was overshadowed by the introduction in 1901 of Rule 27, commonly called "The Ban", which prohibited GAA members from playing "foreign games" like soccer and rugby union.
Select Vestries Acts The term Select Vestries Acts collectively refers to two Acts of Parliament passed in 1818 and 1819 respectively, the Act for the Regulation of Parish Vestries (Vestries Act 1818, 58 Geo.
Most significantly it also rejected the idea that any weaknesses could be resolved solely by greater state intervention.
Señor Buron, one of the slavers, brought an action in trespass against him, claiming damages for the loss of his chattels, including the slaves.
Responsible Authority As a library of publications, JSPs are not the responsibility of any one person or organisation and over the years this has resulted in an unstructured group of publications many of which have become out of date.
In September 2015, LGiU launched LGiU Scotland, a policy information service dedicated to local government across Scotland.
The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Industry is a junior ministerial role in the Department for Business and Trade and Department for Energy Security and Net Zero of His Majesty's Government.
They will form a plan aimed at helping the young person with their behaviour, channeling them into constructive activities, and reducing the risk of offending.
Although the monarch's authority over the Church of England is largely ceremonial and is mostly observed in a symbolic capacity, the position is still relevant to the established church.
Hence an order was made, the Diplomatic and Consular Premises (Cambodia) Order 1988 (SI 1988/30), to de-recognise the diplomatic premises so that legal action could be taken to remove the squatters.
The Investment Security Unit is responsible for identifying, addressing and mitigating national security risks to the UK arising when a person gains control of a qualifying asset or qualifying entity as set out in the National Security and Investment Act.
Crisis with Russia 1791 Pitt was alarmed at Russian expansion in Crimea in the 1780s at the expense of his Ottoman ally, and tried to get Parliamentary support for reversing it.
Gallery See also Python plan Region 6 War Room Operation Candid Royal Observer Corps Spies for Peace References Peter Laurie, Beneath the City Streets, Granada Publishing Ltd, 1979, ISBN 0-586-05055-8.
The Robert Maxwell debacle could have been avoided in his view because many firms already refused to deal with him, and disclosure of his company's governance practices would have led to more pressure for change.
As with Catterick, this was a temporary expedient, and the intention was to move into an expanded ex-ROTOR bunker at Shipton, a few miles north of the city.
Intertrade UK is a public body to promote trade within the UK which was announced as part of the UK government package to restore devolution to Northern Ireland.
The Senior President of Tribunals is a senior judge in the United Kingdom who presides over the UK tribunal system.
In some forces different types of staff (paid ('regular') police officers, special constables, PCSOs and other police staff) are assigned different ranges of numbers, so a person's role can be deduced from the number, but these systems are force specific and there is no national standard.
However, it was soon realised that the sovereign was in need of secretarial support, since his or her ministers had ceased to provide daily advice and support with the growth of ministerial government.
National Security Agency (NSA) in "Mastering the Internet" as part of the "Five Eyes" alliance between several English-speaking Western democracies.
In March 2020, most of the properties under the SSVC umbrella were rebranded under the new BFBS and Forces brandings.
Government was concerned that institutional investors were giving insufficient attention and resources to their holdings in non-listed companies.
Eastman, the editor of the publication, received partial repayment, but after being authorized to collect an additional $1,000 from one of Mylius's accounts, found that Mylius had already withdrawn those funds from the bank.
Between 2007 and 2012, it was maintained by the National Policing Improvement Agency (NPIA) which inherited the activities of the now disbanded Police Information Technology Organisation (PITO).
See also European Union and the United Nations Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations United Nations Association – UK References External links UK Mission to the United Nations New York, Geneva, Vienna United Nations Association - UK UK's world role BBC
The private secretary has general oversight of security policy, though the master of the household is also involved, and the keeper of the Privy Purse has responsibility for the ceremonial bodyguards, such as the gentlemen at arms and the yeomen of the Guard.
Many other countries maintain a national Civil Defence Corps, including the Isle of Man Civil Defence Corps and the Civil Defence Ireland in the Republic of Ireland.
One of the royal figurines may have survived: a statuette of Henry VI matching the contemporary depiction of the crown was uncovered in 2017 by metal detectorist Kevin Duckett.
The LEDS system was in advanced development in 2024, with the PNC due to be decommissioned upon the expiry of its support contract in March 2026.
In December 2009, the Financial Reporting Council commissioned the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators to update the Higgs guidance with the assistance of a Steering Group.
The United Kingdom is a sovereign state that is made up of four constituent countries: England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales.
The members of the VAC are chosen by the BBFC, but it is otherwise independent of the BBFC and the home secretary.
However, after it transpired that the office holder would not be given as many powers as initially thought, Cecil reconsidered and sought to find somebody who was a well-trained civil servant and less known as a big political figure.
A dozen studios were built, and by 1940 Wood Norton was one of the largest broadcasting centres in Europe with an average output of 1,300 programmes a week.
Another exercise, Noble Birch, had been conducted in previous months to test the practicality of government continuity in the absence of power.
Mastering the Internet (MTI) is a mass surveillance project led by the British communications intelligence agency Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) budgeted at over £1 billion.
Until late 2009 constables and sergeants had four digit shoulder numbers beginning 1, 2, 3 or 4 (with the leading number signifying which part of the borough you were attached to – 1 Westminster North, 2 Westminster Central, 3 Westminster South or 4 Westminster HQ).
The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) does, however, have a role to play in helping the police to ensure that the Ministry of Justice guidelines contained within the Guidance are applied consistently and fairly.
North Yorkshire is the largest lieutenancy region in England that in 2018 had a population of over 1,135,000.
The enquiry concluded that the job forecasts were "not [shown] to be robust" and the extension would have "very serious undesirable results", including community severance and an adverse effect on the environment.
In all, the secretariat came to consist of seven sections: a Mandate Section, an Economic and Financial Section, a Section for Transit and Communication, a Social Section, a Political Section, a Legal Section and an International Bureau Section.
The Local Government information Unit (LGiU) is a local government membership body, thinktank and registered charity.
Another special congress in Citywest abolished it, on 17 November 2001, two weeks after the PSNI was established.
References External links COINS official site at HM Government COINS official site at HM Treasury Coins (Combined Online Information System) full coverage at The Guardian Where Does My Money Go?
The office of the original chamberlains became hereditary, and these chamberlains are sometimes called chamberlains-in-fee.
Accessing information Individuals make their freedom of information requests and then receive the information from the public authority they are requesting from, by written notice in a set amount of time.
Ambulance Sub-Section, responsible for the operation of ambulances to transport casualties to Forward Medical Aid Units (FMAU).
The Government, unsatisfied with their findings, recruited Professor Laurence Gower in 1981 to consider new legislation.
The Sports Council for Northern Ireland and Northern Ireland Department of Education made funding grants to GAA bodies while Rule 21 was in force, but at a lower level than would otherwise have been the case.
2025 4 February - Negotiations for the Chagos intensify, with Mauritius seeking a final agreement, contingent on US security concerns over Diego Garcia, a key military base.
This is the only example of a council granting the cachet itself, rather than it being granted by a higher authority, such as the Crown or national government.
Members can invite as many as four guests to stay in the club, store luggage and receive the VSC's twice-yearly newsletter.
A number of factors, both positive and negative, forced the government to reconsider the way financial services were regulated in the UK.
All officers' collar numbers were then suffixed by the letters "CP" rather than a divisional letter.
Spanish Sahara A separate Sahrawi indigenous unit serving the Spanish colonial government was the Policia Territorial.
History In response to a Freedom of Information request in 2009, for example, Greater Manchester Police reported that of 16 people in their area placed on ViSOR since 2007 on their initiative and not as a result of a relevant conviction, four (25%) had clean criminal records.
It is similar in style to BBC Radio 2, playing current music and chat, as well as regular news bulletins.
Summary The report questions whether institutional investors in the UK are too risk averse and considers if there are any factors distorting the decision-making by institutional investors.
They were in effect the government of rural England and Wales until the reforms of the late 1800s creating county and district councils.
The same is often true for principal private secretaries to other members of the Royal Household, such as William, Prince of Wales.
Originally developed in the early 1970s, PNC1 went 'live' in 1974, providing UK police forces with online access to the lost/stolen vehicle database.
The law has only been used once, for the Cambodian embassy in London, which had been occupied by squatters.
At the time of the one-year review in March 2012 Infrastructure UK estimated that their measures had already saved £1.5 billion.
By the 17th century the office of steward and bailiff had been reduced to just a title with no attached powers or duties.
The Tudor Crown, also known as the Imperial Crown, was a crown created in the early 16th century for either Henry VII or Henry VIII, the first Tudor monarchs of England, and destroyed in 1649 during the English Civil War.
Since 1996 the position has included the areas south of the River Tees in the former county of Cleveland.
The LGiU has around 200 local authority members across the UK and Republic of Ireland and a wide range of associate members and partner organisations.
The second royal commission (1961–62) studied the economic and financial factors affecting the press, whilst the third (1974–1977) proposed the development of a written Code of Practice for newspapers.
Use One of the intended uses of the standard was to provide a default local authority Web site navigation hierarchy that could be used flexibly with an appropriate level of detail to meet local requirements.
This appellate process is the duty of the Information Commissioner's Office (in both the UK broadly, and through the Scottish Information Commissioner for Scotland specifically).
The plan was originally developed in 2021 to address the possibility of a major failure of the National Grid.
A coronation oath is a solemn oath of office taken by the monarch of the United Kingdom at their coronation.
The club was renamed in 1936 in memory of Field Marshal Viscount Edmund Allenby, who had been President since 1933.
In most forces it is simply a one- to five-digit number, but in larger forces a letter code (also known as a division call sign) may be added to indicate the officer's base area or unit.
Chairmen of the Health Services Board (1954-1986) Arnold Callin MHK, 15 December 1981 – 31 March 1986.
Uganda In Uganda, the only jurisdiction with a lord mayor is Kampala, in recognition of its status as the capital city of the country.
After promises during the election campaign to publish the database if elected, the Cameron–Clegg coalition government made available all 120 GB of COINS data in a raw format as of 4 June 2010.
However, the office was also held by the crown from the death of Guy de Beauchamp in 1315 until the death of Edward II in 1327 because Guy's eldest son was only a young child.
They had heavy steel doors to seal the car deck, airtight external windows and doors, decontamination rooms with showers, and external sprinklers to wash away fallout.
Part of the thinking was that the "precautionary period" ahead of nuclear war, or a conventional war in Europe culminating in nuclear war, might only last two or three days rather than the seven days originally planned, so it would not be possible to fully staff CGWHQ with 4,000 people in time.
The hope is that this will spur third party organisations to find innovative ways to present this information to the public.
Randal suggests increasingly ridiculous scenarios, all the while cajoling Dante for selfishly dooming humanity by withholding the car and its inspiration from the masses if he refuses.
The film was released theatrically on 27 February 2026 and began streaming on Netflix on 27 March 2026.
At night, Leng Heng dreams of his previous lives and of a solid gold Buddha, which he is convinced will help prevent his family from being evicted.
Initially, the film was planned to be released in June, coinciding with Vijay's 50th birthday; however, it was delayed due to the extensive post-production and VFX works.
Robin attempts to point out to Jimmy that the cartoons are taking advantage of him, but he denies this and leaves for his television debut, and Sonny takes Robin hostage.
Empire also ranked him 18th in its "The 100 Greatest Movie Characters" poll, and the film ranks at 17 on the magazine's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.
However, in theatres in the U.S., it was shown in black-and-white, allegedly to 'save money duplicating prints'.
The film was submitted as a script to the MMFF hence it was among the first four of eight entries announced in July 2025.
Reception Box office Mile 22 grossed $37.6 million in the United States and Canada, and $28.7 million in other territories, for a total worldwide gross of $66.3 million.
It is directed and co-written by Rawson Marshall Thurber, who produced with Todd Lieberman, David Hoberman, and Bob Koplar for Amazon MGM Studios.
There is nothing to think about, no nuances to contemplate, no connection with these characters who exist only in moments of hyper-tension and crisis, no greater truths to consider other than to prevail." The performance of Uwais received some praise.
Plot In fictional Hadleyville, Pennsylvania, the local auto plant, which supplied most of the town's jobs, has been closed for nine months.
An alcoholic boat captain named Ray (Casper Van Dien) and his sidekick Pablo (Jorge Eduardo de los Santos) are enlisted by a voodoo priest named Tiny (Tony Almont) to obtain the heart of the Sharktopus.
While Porter is gone, Mike manages to get in his apartment and steal several thumb drives containing evidence, escaping just as Porter returns to his apartment after realising a ruse.
References External links State of Siege: Temple Attack at ZEE5 State of Siege: Temple Attack at IMDb
The guests finally decide to leave, but after being unable to contact anyone via radio, decide to wait until the next morning.
Edgerton as himself (uncredited) Tex Harris (uncredited) Charles Lacey (uncredited) June Preisser (uncredited) Pete Smith as narrator (uncredited) References External links Quicker'n a Wink at IMDb Quicker'n a Wink at the TCM Movie Database (archived version) Video on YouTube, posted by MIT
Rex uses the GPS unit from Travis' bag and his laptop to gain access to the internet to find out more about the show but is unable to find any evidence of their show online.
Jeevi of Idlebrain.com gave the film a rating of 2.75/5 and said that "The movie looks very artificial except a few scenes where the love of Naresh towards his mother is projected".
Jay Leno later offered to have Smith go ahead with filming for airing on The Tonight Show and it premiered there on February 27, 2002.
He eventually committed to the film due to find a Christmas film as fitting for the MMFF, an event which traditionally starts on December 25.
Living solitary lives in one-room "shoebox" apartments, they both contemplate the changing cityscape, and struggle with anxiety and loneliness, feeling disconnected from other people in the digital age.
Gwen is jealous of Paul's unusually close relationship with X-CaliBR8, to whom Paul has given a female voice, and fears that their relationship will be destroyed by Paul's reliance on X-CaliBR8 for his various day-to-day activities.
The anonymous reviewer went on to write that 'Leder's direction is first-rate; his writing sensible and true to the situation.
Much like Apple Inc's Knowledge Navigator concept, Tom acts as a butler within a virtual space populated with hypermedia: linked text, sound, pictures and movies represented by animated icons.
The Rise and Rise of Bitcoin's writers were advised by academics and consultants, such as Daniel Mross, Charlie Shrem, Alex Waters, Jered Kenna, Trace Mayer, Andrew Lokenauth, Nicholas Mross and Patrick Lope.
MPAA rating The climactic shootout was considered intensely graphic by the MPAA, who considered giving the film an X rating.
First, they capture girls on film and blackmail them, then abuse them, both physically and mentally.
But with the police detective on his tail, Biggerman, the man who built RPM, and also his sister Claudia (Famke Janssen), who wants the money, on his tail, he will find it very difficult to steal the car.
Other characters include a racehorse that loves sardines, a friendly bordello madam and her amiable employees, and a man with a horse who lives near an impassable sinkhole full of mud for which he charges expensive rates to get both carts and cars through.
The DVD features an audio commentary by director Jamie Travis, writer Katie Anne Naylon, and stars/producers Miller and Graynor, five deleted scenes, and a "look inside" featurette.
Along the way, he meets Charkos' girl (Emmanuelle Seigner), who wants her car back (which Luke has stolen, but Claudia took it).
He then flies to OCP's headquarters and confronts the waiting McDaggett who arms a small fusion bomb sent by Kanemitsu as a last resort.
Cast Cameo appearances Additionally, late actor Vijayakanth was featured in the film as a Nuclear Scientist as a tribute with the use of artificial intelligence in a short appearance as M.
Legacy Sequels Now You See Him, Now You Don't (1972) The Strongest Man in the World (1975) Television films This film was remade as the television film The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes in 1995 starring Kirk Cameron as Dexter Riley.
The Frozen Dead is a 1966 British science fiction horror film written, produced and directed by Herbert J.
Upstairs, Lisa assures them that Chet will soon return to normal, and, realizing that her purpose is complete, tearfully hugs both Gary and Wyatt before de-materializing.
Gudipoodi Srihari of The Hindu opined that "Histrionically speaking, it is the senior Naresh who steals the limelight, with a peculiar make-up given to his role of Babu Rao".
Story of the Gun: Before the Dawn of the Apes (Year 10) or The Gun, is the third short film in the series.
Explaining her phobia of elevators, she takes the stairs, to Lucas' dismay; as he waits at their table, she is overcome with anxiety and leaves.
After a misunderstanding, they explain their story and verify it through Wonder Woman's Lasso of Truth.
It stars Sylvester Stallone and Curtis Jackson reprising their roles from the first film, with Dave Bautista, Huang Xiaoming, Jaime King, Jesse Metcalfe, Titus Welliver, and Wes Chatham joining the cast.
Censorship boards believed that it was too extreme and several scenes were shortened or modified to receive an acceptable theatrical rating.
In the past, Giulia manages to restart the car after it had stopped working and resumes her journey.
Verhoeven was still uninterested until his wife Martine read it and encouraged him to give it a chance, saying he had missed the "soul" of the story about someone losing his identity.
The film is loosely based on the terrorist attack at Akshardham Temple in 2002 Akshardham Temple attack in Gandhinagar.
During the tournament, a trigger word ("applejack") causes him to unconsciously recite details of Arno's gambling ring on live television.
Jane is confronted by Tom, who professes his love for her and explains that Rebecca was "too weak" and did not fulfill her pact with Satan.
Lauren and Katie call each other at the same time, engaging in a phone conversation full of unintentional innuendo before they meet each other on the street and hug.
Riley single-handedly leads Medfield's team in victories against other colleges, to his teammate's growing resentment.
Critic Lav Diaz gave the film a mildly positive review, commending it for being hilarious despite its imitation of numerous screen works such as Police Academy and The Six Million Dollar Man while criticizing the third act for being boring.
The film was released in United Kingdom as a straight-to-video release by Tartan Video (under their Asia Extreme Label) on February 25, 2002, in both VHS and Region 0-DVD format.
In March 2022, it was announced that a live-action adaptation was officially back in development, based on a story by Rawson Marshall Thurber.
Music "finale" by Japanese rock group L'Arc-en-Ciel, was used as the film official theme song, and it was released as Double A-side single, three days before the film's release.
After being released, Mike returns home to find Kaitlyn and Rose tied and gagged by Porter, who holds them at gunpoint.
She helps him steal the RPM in exchange for bringing her car back and the two eventually start a romance.
Theatrical release The film was released in theatres on 4 July 2025 under the title Akshardham: Operation Vajra Shakti.
Before the Dawn of the Apes, or simply Before the Dawn, is a series of three 2014 short films produced by 20th Century Fox and Vice Media's Motherboard, which take place after the events of Rise of the Planet of the Apes and before the events of Dawn of the Planet of the Apes.
Ayaz Khan portrayed the teenage version of Vijay's younger character Jeevan, with his face digitally morphed to resemble Vijay.
The Taurus was chosen because of its futuristic, aerodynamic styling for the vehicle's first production year.
The mayor threatens to kill Hunt, but Willie, one of the workers, intervenes, insisting that Hunt is not to blame for the closure.
The film was conceived by cartoonist Roberto Recchioni, who began a version of the film in the form of a graphic novel for Sergio Bonelli Editore, written together with Mauro Uzzeo and drawn and colored by Lorenzo Ceccotti, incorporating the film’s costume designs by Anina Pinter.
Reception The film received generally positive reviews and holds 68% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 22 reviews.
In hindsight, Hyperland does describe a number of features of the modern web and, apart from some underestimates of graphics and processing power available, the documentary paints a not inaccurate picture of hypermedia and hypertext and how they are used today.
The Bandit's car was a second-generation Trans Am and the prize for completing the run was a new truck rather than $80,000.
Giulia is a young screenwriter with a turbulent past, having suffered psychological abuse from her mother, who went mad after her son's suicide, and is in a toxic relationship with Davide.
Keith Booker in his book Drawn to Television: Prime-Time Animation from The Flintstones to Family Guy.
Reinhart Casper Van Dien as Ray Akari Endo as Officer Nita Morales Jorge Eduardo de los Santos as Pablo Jennifer Wenger as Betty Tony Almont as "Tiny" Mario Arturo Hernández as Felix Rosa Reviews Felix Vasquez Jr.
Principal photography took place over 16 days in Los Angeles and New York City with a budget of $1.3 million.
During the battle between The Resistance, the Police, and McDaggett's forces, RoboCop flies in using his jetpack and destroys the remainder of The Rehabs and McDaggett's men.
The short film follows the eponymous internet film critic Howard Cantour, who was played by Jim Gaffigan.
One of the songs, "Assi Teri Gul Karni", by Harry Anand, is inspired from Pakistani pop singer Abrar Ul Haq’s song "Assan Jana Mall-o Mall" from the namesake album.
Howard is dismissive of her, saying that he wouldn't have bothered talking to her if she wasn't attractive.
The next morning, Chet returns from duck hunting to discover his home in disarray: A localized snowstorm fills his room, and a huge missile stands in the middle of the house.
The Japanese company agrees and, upon their arrival in the United States, they take advantage of the desperate work force to institute many changes.
In February and April 2025, Roberto Zenca, Becki Cross Trujillo, and Matthew Scully also joined the cast.
Spread of Simian Flu: Before the Dawn of the Apes (Year 1) or Quarantine, is the first short film in the series.
Yun Seo-hyun is the team leader of research project Jung_E and seeks to memorialize Jung-yi as a hero rather than a failure.
Boom Studios released an eight-part comic book series Robocop: The Last Stand which is based on Miller's original RoboCop 3 screenplay.
The film's theme was influenced by the popularity of Disney's 1982 film Tron and the roleplaying game Dungeons & Dragons.
Plot In the near future, a new law sends criminals to a virtual reality prison built by Zircon, a shadowy corporation based in Seattle.
Quicker'n a Wink is a 1940 American short documentary film in the Pete Smith Specialities series about stroboscopic photography and the work of Doc Edgerton, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Cast Satomi Ishihara as Akane Ayukawa Koji Seto as Takanori Ando Yusuke Yamamoto as Seiji Kashiwada Ryosei Tayama as Detective Koiso Ai Hashimoto as Sadako Yamamura Sequel A sequel to Sadako 3D, titled Sadako 3D 2, was released on August 30, 2013.
Major Hanut Singh along with his team of NSG commandos decides to lead the mission but his senior's ask him to back out when he does not follow the orders leading to cross firing between the terrorists and NSG Commandos.
The film is a remake of the 2000 Hindi film Hera Pheri by Priyadarshan which itself was based on Siddique–Lal's 1989 Malayalam film Ramji Rao Speaking.
Plot Alicia is a young woman working as an employee at a video rental store in Waterbury, Connecticut.
The resulting treatment transforms Felix Rosa (Mario Artura Hernandez) into the Whalewolf, which causes havoc and results in it fighting with the Sharktopus, then he dies.
Inspired by Kazuo Ishiguro's novel Never Let Me Go, Wachtel devised a science fiction story set in Phnom Penh in the near future.
Charkos, afraid that the mass production of the car would destroy his oil empire, offers him 1 billion dollars to steal it.
This film was banned by the nation's ruling Communist party (who were supported by the occupying Soviet forces).
Matt Knudsen as Sonny Appleday, Milt Appleday's scheming son, who is determined to claim his father's brain for himself.
Lauren lands an interview at a prestigious publishing company that previously rejected her, and Katie convinces her to attend the interview to blow them off.
Critical response Disconnect received a score of 70% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 77 reviews with an average rating of 6.7/10.
It stars an ensemble cast featuring Jason Bateman, Hope Davis, Frank Grillo, Michael Nyqvist, Paula Patton, Andrea Riseborough, Alexander Skarsgård, Max Thieriot, Colin Ford and Jonah Bobo.
He obliges, though he says it will have to wait as he is busy; unbeknownst to Alicia, he is lying in bed with a woman's bloody corpse.
It features an orphan teenage girl who takes items and supplies from abandoned houses and trades them with other people to survive.
Tobey and Julia reach San Francisco's Mark Hopkins Hotel in time to register for the race, but on Nob Hill, a tow truck operated by one of Dino's henchmen smashes into the Mustang, wrecking it and injuring Julia.
Arno and his henchmen are arrested when they attempt to escape the TV studio and crash head-on into a police car.
It stars John Travolta, Jamie Lee Curtis, Anne De Salvo, Marilu Henner, Laraine Newman, Matthew Reed, and Jann Wenner.
Critical response Lav Diaz, writing for the Manila Standard, gave Bobo Cop a mildly positive review.
When they start photographing her, she telekinetically breaks the camera; the two discover that all the photographs contain ghostly faces and a girl with long hair, confirming Miyaji's suspicion of "two" Sadakos.
They return home after attending a political party dinner and notice their home has been broken into.
Cast Brian O'Halloran as Dante Hicks Jeff Anderson as Randal Graves References External links The Flying Car The Flying Car at IMDb The Flying Car at View Askew's Web site; includes the film in QuickTime, RealVideo and Windows Media formats Transcript The Flying Car on Kevin Smith's YouTube channel
Thirteen years after the original film, two suicides prompt Detective Koiso and his partner to investigate a string of mysterious deaths.
Radio Shack in California had a promotional giveaway for the third car shortly after the movie was released.
The Detroit presented in the film is described as beset by rape, crime and "Reaganomics gone awry", where gentrification and unfettered capitalism result in corporations waging war as the police become a profit-driven entity.
Tilda Julie Benz as Julie Falcon Gian Carlo Scandiuzzi as Matthew Stolopin Brian Faker as Ben Brian Finney as Bill Marcus Aurelius as Dayton Tony Doupe as Thackery William Hall, Jr.
Its story follows journalist Adam Lawrence, who is assigned to interview Joe McKenzie, a successful entrepreneur accused of dealing drugs.
In a mid-credits scene, it was shown that just outside the building beside the well, Kashiwada's landlord moves away and her words, "Isn't it all artificial?" echo.
One afternoon, she is met outside her apartment by an elderly man dressed in black who asks to use her phone.
Krishand had previously served as an executive producer on Gaganachari (2024), another Malayalam cyberpunk film.
See also List of films featuring surveillance References External links My Little Eye at IMDb Interview with director Marc Evans
Adam travels to Morocco for another assignment, unaware of the changes being made in his story; he finds out too late to stop it.
He discovered Bitcoin in 2011, and from there he has been fascinated by anything that has to do with it.
Dino offers to relinquish his entire share of the Mustang sale if Tobey wins, otherwise Tobey will have to forfeit his share.
Plot Jane Hardy, a schoolteacher in San Francisco, suffers a nervous breakdown following a divorce and the simultaneous death of her mother.
The Third Eye) is a 2006 Indian action-techno thriller film directed by Harry Baweja starring Sunny Deol and Amisha Patel and, Neha Dhupia and, Aarti Chhabria and, Aashish Chaudhary and Mukesh Rishi.
During his class trip to Gollyworld, an amusement park themed around animated cartoon characters created by the late Milt Appleday, Jimmy misses out on many of the attractions.
The movie then cuts to a scene of Howard sitting in a restaurant with Dakota (Portia Doubleday), a young review critic.
Tsui Foon blames Ho for her time in jail and asks for a separation from Ho, (which Ho reluctantly agrees to) Hoyt Tsui then tells Ho that the police have received a package.
Apple Multimedia Lab employees Steve Gano, Kristee Kreitman, Kristina Hooper, Michael Naimark and Fabrice Florin talk about a multimedia version of Life Story, a BBC TV film dramatisation of the 1953 discovery of the structure of DNA.
Lee Nation as Zombie Beverly Miko as Zombie James Di Mino as Zombie Curtis Lee Garrick as Zombie James Chestnut as Zombie Peter Kent as Zombie John Carl Buechler as Ratspit (credited as Ratspit) Heavy Metal Blackie Lawless as W.A.S.P.
He later learns from Hoyt Tsui that she is leaving and plans to sell the house and go to a trading firm.
Reception Critical response On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 7% of 27 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 2.5/10.
It received mostly negative reviews, with the critical consensus from Rotten Tomatoes calling it a "thrill-deficient action thriller".
The Reivers (also known as The Yellow Winton Flyer in the U.K.) is a 1969 Technicolor film in Panavision starring Steve McQueen and directed by Mark Rydell, based on the 1962 William Faulkner novel The Reivers, a Reminiscence.
I Saw What You Did is a 1965 American horror thriller film released by Universal Pictures and starring Joan Crawford and John Ireland.
The short film was first commissioned by the Ford Motor Company as an inspirational film for its engineers at a yearly meeting, but when presented with Smith's final script, the company objected to the dialogue and dropped the project.
The film's editors, Walter Hannemann and Angelo Ross, were nominated for the Academy Award for Best Film Editing at the 50th Academy Awards.
Reinhart (Catherine Oxenberg), a mad scientist who studied with the late Nathan Sands and the late Rico Symes from the previous two Sharktopus movies, mixes the genes of a killer whale and a wolf (resembling the extinct Pakicetus, an ancestor of modern whales).
After a race, Tobey's former rival Dino Brewster conscripts them into completing the build of a rare Ford Shelby Mustang worked on by the late Carroll Shelby, in exchange for 25% of the car's sales revenue.
Plot Since its fight with the Pteracuda, the Sharktopus is still at large and is lurking in the waters of the Dominican Republic.
Sandra starts looking for different ways to open the car, trying to find help at an electric charging station nearby, but she cannot find anyone and sleeps on the roof of the car for the night.
Shortly after, she has a vivid nightmare in which the hearse takes her away as her aunt watches from the house, and Jane observes her funeral.
Critical response On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 18% of 101 critics' reviews are positive.
One evening, they connect with each other by chance in an Internet chat room, but just as Mariana asks for Martín's phone number, the city is plunged in a blackout.
He asks Dante what he would hypothetically sacrifice in exchange for ownership of a flying car and its related intellectual property.
Legacy Quentin Tarantino credited the novelization of the film by screenwriter Thomas Rickman as getting him interested in writing.
Tony is eventually arrested based on the recording that Joe obtained through the military grade device that he has been using to bug the rich men, which was embedded in his arm.
The film had a theatrical release in the United States on July 15, 2022, and it was released in Cambodia on February 17, 2023.
She also learns through the chairman of Kronoid that there is no need to develop combat AI anymore because the Adrian Republic and Allied Forces are entering a treaty.
Once the house is finally probated to Jane, Pritchard confirms to her that Rebecca worshipped Satan, and that upon her death, the hearse carrying her body crashed on the nearby road; the driver of the hearse, along with Rebecca's body and her coffin, inexplicably disappeared.
Moreover, Foster said that she was fascinated and entertained by the behind-the-scenes preparation that went into the scene.
His dancing, action sequences, comic timing, vulnerability, romantic charm, and effortless superstardom are all stuff of dreams.
Special appearance Lee Dong-hee as the chairman of Kronoid Laboratory Uhm Ji-won as Lee Se-yeon Production Kim Hyun-joo and Ryu Kyung-soo also appeared in director Yeon Sang-ho's previous work, 2021 Netflix series Hellbound.
Diaz criticized, however, the film for becoming boring when it became a parody of RoboCop in the third act.
Plot Ray Breslin continues to operate his security company to some success, with senior members Hush and Abigail and newcomers Shu Ren, Jasper Kimbral, and Luke Graves as field operators.
Wonderful things then begin to happen: her theatre company makes her the lead in all their productions, she is courted and fêted wherever she goes, and a journalist becomes her constant shadow.
Amy discovers Libby and chases her off, thinking that Libby is Marak's lover, inadvertently saving Libby from being murdered by Marak, who has seen her and grabbed a knife.
Please...There wasn't a moment during this movie when I thought about anything other than this movie." References External links Disconnect at IMDb
Plot Set in the near future, Sandra (Katrina Bowden), a former member of a pop group called Hipstars, discovers thanks to her friend and member of the Hipstars, Jessa, that her husband (record producer Carl), has a lover.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 73 out of 100, based on 4 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
The cars were 1976 models, the engines fitted to them were 455ci power plants, the last year these engines were offered for sale before withdrawal.
Plot A young online app reviewer's latest assignment mysteriously improves his life but also starts to tear him apart, bringing his existence into a downward spiral.
Kanemitsu dispatches ninja androids called "Otomo" to assist McDaggett against the resistance and RoboCop.
Richard Moll as Mestema Leslie Wing as Gwen Rogers, Paul's Girlfriend Gina Calabrese as Girl In Dream Danial Dion as Monster In Dream Bill Bestolarides as Monster In Dream Scott Campbell as Monster In Dream Ed Dorini as Monster In Dream R.
Development Daniel and Nicholas Mross came up with the idea of this documentary due to the difficulty Daniel experienced attempting to explain Bitcoin to his peers.
Later, Rich discovers the identity of "Jessica" and angrily goes to Mike's house, which results in a physical altercation.
Unwilling to risk being erased from existence, Dawnstar and Karate Kid retreat, realizing that they can induce their own paradox by ensuring that Luthor never obtained the Eternity Glass.
Karmalink is a 2021 science fiction film directed and co-written by Jake Wachtel in his feature film directorial debut.
She finds herself falling for him, only to discover that he is none other than Sandeep Anand himself.
talks the Dancekings into a bank robbery (SOS has just expanded into the banking business) that does not work out quite as planned.
Jason's father (who is actually named Mike) discovers what Jason and Frye have been doing and is furious.
Dhanalakshmi, I Love You is a 2002 Indian Telugu-language comedy film directed by Siva Nageswara Rao and starring Allari Naresh, Aditya Om, Naresh, and Ankitha.
Perfect is a 1985 American romantic drama film directed by James Bridges and distributed by Columbia Pictures.
The young heroes enlist the League to stop them, and travel to the Hall of Justice in Washington, D.C.
Alone for the weekend with Wyatt's parents gone, Gary is inspired by the 1931 film Frankenstein to create a virtual woman using Wyatt's computer, infusing her with everything they can conceive of to make the perfect dream woman.
Plot Wealthy Texan Big Enos Burdette and his son, Little Enos, frequently bet notable truckers in Atlanta to bootleg 400 cases of Coors beer from Texarkana, Texas, to Atlanta in 28 hours, but all have failed with many being arrested.
Plot Paul Bradford (Jeffrey Byron) is a skilled computer programmer who lives with his girlfriend, Gwen (Leslie Wing), and "X-CaliBR8", a quasi-sentient personal computer that Paul programmed and which he interacts with via a neural interface.
He has her taken away by the officers and then inspects the car, revealing that Anastasia had also died in an identical car with the same nonexistent license plate.
They free his past self from the ice, but Time Trapper is immune to the paradox because he exists outside of time, and with Luthor freed, he can now do as he pleases because he is no longer his master.
Thomas Dean Donnelly and Joshua Oppenheimer entered into collaboration on writing the script, and on September 16, 2010, concept art for the movie was released.
Escape Plan 2: Hades was released straight-to-DVD in the United States but received theatrical releases in such countries as Russia on June 28, 2018, and in China on June 29, 2018.
as Former main dancer Atul Agnihotri as Anil Soundtrack The music of the film was composed by Bappi Lahiri, while lyrics were penned by Yogesh.
Two working cars were made with a third, non-functional one that was used when the vehicle exploded.
Giulia explains that she borrowed a car to visit her ex-boyfriend Jack, who had just arrived in Florence from the United States, despite her agent Claudio and her friend Sara advising against it.
Remake and sequel As of 2013, Universal Studios was planning a Weird Science remake with original producer Joel Silver returning, and Michael Bacall writing the film.
The New York Times critiqued the film for its sidestepping of economists' past criticisms of the Bitcoin economy.
Overwatch Agent Sam Snow and Kerr arrive, shocked at his combat prowess, learning that Noor used to be Indocarr Special Forces.
14 Cameras is a 2018 American crime horror thriller film written by Victor Zarcoff, directed by Seth Fuller and Scott Hussion and starring Neville Archambault.
The fifth change was the script supervisor, which was handled by Kumiko Yoshida in Ring 2; however, Yoshida was replaced by Yoshimi Amaike when the film went into production.
Reyes and starring Joey Marquez as the titular cop, alongside Alice Dixson, Matet, Kristina Paner, Cris Villanueva, Atoy Co, Amy Perez, Willie Revillame, Panchito and Cachupoy.
Lo heads to the docks to meet his wife but is instead invited on board a yacht along with the other rich men to Tony's mansion.
Daniel and the people that he interviews are the pioneers that are adventuring into this mysterious concept.
He stated that though the film tried to cram as many imitations as it can into the story, from Police Academy to The Six Million Dollar Man to Jimmy Wang Yu, it was still able to garner effective hilarity.
The workers are not permitted a union, are paid lower wages, are moved around within the factory so that each worker learns every job, and are held to seemingly impossible standards of efficiency and quality.
The film was originally going to be released on August 3, 2018, but was pushed back two weeks to August 17, 2018.
Cast Radoslav Brzobohatý as Ludvík Jiřina Bohdalová as Anna Jiří Císler as Standa Miroslav Holub as Russian general Milica Kolofiková as Woman at the party Jaroslav Moučka as Vagera Awards 1990 Cannes Film Festival - Nominated for the Golden Palm for Karel Kachyňa.
The film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 26, 2012, where it secured a worldwide distribution deal with Focus Features.
Howard attends the film's preview, where he interacts with fellow online film critic Rocco (Thomas Lennon) and is told that only specific film critics (namely newspaper critics) will be allowed into the discussion with the director.
Pochhonder Khatire (in Bengali) Pasand Apni Apni (in Hindi) is a 1983 Indian bilingual film simultaneously shot in Bengali and Hindi-languages, directed by Basu Chatterjee.
She later sees a woman from one of her nightmares at the local church, but the Reverend Winston assuages her fears.
Dakota then approaches the two men and asks their opinion about the film, to which Rocco says that he would be posting a mixed review.
This edition also includes some of the special features from the earlier release on the second disc, as well as some newly produced documentary material.
Filming Principal photography began in December 2024, in Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia, at Village Roadshow Studios, under the working title Space Mouse.
The supporting cast includes Sharon Farrell, Rupert Crosse, and Mitch Vogel, and Burgess Meredith as the narrator.
Plot Jung_E portrays a desolated Earth in the year 2135 that is no longer habitable due to the rise of the sea level caused by climate change.
Inspired by this, she decides to push the car further away from the hill, using the wrench to break the stone and intimidating the coyote, making him run away.
The Time Trapper banishes the future Luthor from existence and tries to remake the world in his image.
Darkdrive is a science fiction movie which premiered in Canada in November 1997 and went straight to DVD in the USA.
Additionally, in the United States military, chaplains must be endorsed by their religious affiliation in order to serve in any facet of the military.
hēgoúmenos), is the title for the head of a monastery in the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches, or an archpriest in the Coptic Orthodox Church, similar to the title of abbot.
someone who has completed advanced training (dars kharij) in the hawza and has acquired the license to engage in ijtihad (ʾijāz al-ʾijtihād) from one or several ayatollahs.
The rituals are performed with money, liquor, animals, and in some places, human sex slaves called trokosi, fiashidi, or woryokwe.
"They go back to the archivist-soothsayers of antiquity, one of whom supposedly was Laozi himself; under the Shang and Zhou they were the only ones who knew divination and writing".
The historical tradition of the mystagogue has carried on today in one way through the fraternity system in American universities, that have historically held a position for a mystagogue at either the chapter or the national level.
For the Bramins cannot endure to remain with others, nor to speak much; but when this happens to take place, they afterwards withdraw themselves, and do not speak for many days.
Scholars suspect that the same techniques were used by the monks of all early Buddhist schools to fix and transmit the contents of the Agamas, but outside of the Theravada tradition little information about the pre-literary period of these traditions is available.
Her granddaughter, Melania the Younger, was married at the age of thirteen and had two sons, both of whom died at a young age.
In Anishinaabe ceremonial communities, the water drum may be passed down from one generation to the next.
Differences between terms While iyaláwo and ìyánífá are often used interchangeably, the terms have different denotations and connotations.
Pummer uses a spelling for the name of the high priest that is based on the English Bible for the bearers of biblical names, while he chooses a more scientific transcription for the full name (last column).
The clatter of castanets, words too foul for the strumpet that stands naked in a reeking archway, with all the arts and language of lust, may be left to him who spits wine upon floors of Lacedaemonian marble; such men we pardon because of their high station.
Decline No fixed date has been established for the end of the bhāṇaka tradition, but scholars generally believe that the tradition went into decline as the Buddhist canon increasingly began to be preserved through written texts.
Geography Komana is located on a natural hill just south of the Gümenek village, on the west bank of the Yeşilırmak (ancient Iris), 9 km northeast of Tokat on the road towards Niksar (ancient Neokaisareia) (Proc.Pers.i.17.14).
Some fangshi practices like shefu (射覆; "shoot cover") were closer to parlor magic than esoteric techniques.
The child evangelism movement, which focuses on evangelizing children between the ages of 4 and 14 years old, originated in the 20th century.
Sheikhs duplicate the Prophetic realities, and are also expected to perform and act as an intermediary between the Creator and the created, since the sheikh has arrived close to God through his meditations and spiritual travels.
The Åbtå order, descended from the 113th High Priest Tsedaka ben Tabia, which has held the office of the High Priesthood since 1624; the House of Phineas a.k.a.
Cultural context In the ceremonial context of Indigenous North American communities, "medicine" usually refers to spiritual healing.
Unusually, Munslow was not poor or an outcast, instead being a wealthy farmer from an established family.
Other chivalric orders, such as the military Order of Christ, the Knights of Santiago, or in general, the orders founded in the context of the Reconquista, only had one Grand Prior who acted as the Orders' Chief-cleric.
Qadiyat or Qaziyat (alternative spellings: Kadiyat or Kaziyat) (Russian: Кадиат) in Islam is a territorial division associated with a qadi; in some cases subordinate to the mufti and muftiate.
"Shinmeiaishinkai and the Study of Shamanism in Contemporary Japanese Life", in Religion in Japan, ed.
Origins In ancient mystery religions, a mystagogue would be responsible for leading an initiate into the secret teachings and rituals of a cultus.
Many of the leaders of the Taliban were titled Mullah, although not all had completed their madrasa education.
This chain links every previous Sufi sheik, and eventually can be traced back to the Successors, and in later times to the Prophet himself.
Equivalent to a religious sister, a religious brother typically lives in a religious community and works in a ministry appropriate to his capabilities.
In the last few decades of the 20th century, novices have for most communities been few and far between.
Eastern Christian priests mostly retain the traditional dress of two layers of differently cut cassock: the rasson (Greek) or podriasnik (Russian) beneath the outer exorasson (Greek) or riasa (Russian).
(A similar annex was built in the Frankfurt Synagogue.) Both Dulcie (wife of Rabbi Eliezer of Worms) and Urania bat Abraham served as precentors in the Worms weibershul.
They ranked higher than the imperial abbots and imperial abbesses who although they were also immediate, held only two collective votes in the Diet.
Some religious institutes are composed only of brothers; others are made up of brothers and clerics (priests or ministers, and seminarians).
A Hindu mantrik is known to worship Kali and is often mentioned in the same breath as tantric, though there are subtle differences.
Various other titles like Munīndra (Sanskrit; Pali: Muninda; meaning "lord of Munis"), Munivar (Greatest among Munis), Munirāja (King of Munis), Munīśvara (Sanskrit; Pali: Munissaro; meaning "lord of Munis"), Mahāmuni (The great[est] Muni) are also given to the Buddhas.
Bangladesh In Bangladesh, in the government Aliyah Madrasa system, Maulvi/Moulvi is also associated with formal degrees for those who have passed the course of Maulvi (basic), Maulvi Aalim (intermediate) or Maulvi Fazil (advanced).
In any event, as soon as anyone got near to them, the wind would suddenly come and drag the boat away, so that in the end no one could ever reach them.
In Christian theology, a heresiarch (also hæresiarch, according to the Oxford English Dictionary; from Greek: αἱρεσιάρχης, hairesiárkhēs via the late Latin haeresiarcha) or arch-heretic is an originator of heretical doctrine or the founder of a sect that sustains such a doctrine.
Sages of this type are said to know the truth of existence not on the basis of scientific or religious texts but through their own realization.
Mawlawi generally means a highly qualified Islamic scholar, usually one who has completed full studies in a madrasa (Islamic school) or darul uloom (Islamic seminary).
Other titles included panyasa (canonical text experts), mahattara (female leader) and pravartini (female preacher).
A zhrets is a priest in the Slavic religion whose name is reconstructed to mean "one who makes sacrifices".
Holy Roman Archchaplains Willigis (c982-c1007) Erkanbald (c1016-c1020) Aribo (c1023-c1028) Willegis (c1073) == References ==
The word Mawlawi is derived from the Arabic word mawla, which has several meanings, including "lord".
This voluntary principle, states Olivelle, was the same principle found in Buddhist and Jain monastic orders at that time.
In the early Christian church, this same concept was used to describe role of the bishop, who was responsible for seeing to it that the catechumens were properly prepared for baptism.
Authority Where a difference in opinion exists between the maraji', each of them provides their own opinion and the muqallid (their followers) will follow their own marja's opinion on that subject.
He began in July 1948 with a compulsory period in the ranks of the Royal Regiment of Artillery alongside young men of all social backgrounds.
Buddhism In Buddhism the term "Muni" is used as a title of Gautama Buddha — who, being born among the tribe of the Śākyas, is called Śākyamuni (sage of the Shakyas).
In ancient Judaism, the Priests (Kohanim) had a whole class of Levites as their assistants in making the sacrifices, in singing psalms and in maintaining the Temple.
The address of a superior is often "Mother superior" or "Venerable mother", sometimes only "Mother", and for higher superiors also "Most venerable mother" or "Reverend mother".
One example is the fatwa of Mirza Mohammed Hassan Husseini Shirazi imposing sanctions on the use of tobacco during Qajar rule, which led to the abolition of the tobacco concession.
The parish priest is the proper clergyman in charge of the congregation of the parish entrusted to him.
During the feudal Kamakura period (1185–1333) when Japan was controlled by warring shōgun states: [T]he miko was forced into a state of mendicancy as the shrines and temples that provided her with a livelihood fell into bankruptcy.
The Sarbarah was a custodianship position in British Punjab where a person would oversee the affairs of the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar as a temple-manager.
This was achieved by chanting and dancing, thus therefore the girl was taught melodies and intonations that were used in songs, prayers and magical formulas, supported by drum and rattlers.
A pastor (abbreviated to "Ps","Pr", "Pstr.", "Ptr." or "Psa" (both singular), or "Ps" (plural)) is the leader of a Christian congregation who also gives advice and counsel to people from the community or congregation.
With the Cluniac Reforms, the term prior received a specific meaning; it supplanted the provost or dean (praepositus), spoken of in the Rule of St.
In Ghana, Togo, Benin and other countries of West Africa, a fetish priest is a person who serves as a mediator between the spirits and the living.
Called donates or oblati, they were not considered to be monks, but they were nonetheless gradually accepted as members of the monastic community.
Establishment of the tradition Adi Shankara, the first Shankaracharya, set up four monasteries, known as Mathas or Peethams, in the North, South, East and West of India, to be headed by Self-realised men who would be known as Shankaracharyas.
Iyalawo is a term in the Yoruba religion and other derived religions (especially Lucumi) that literally means "mother of mysteries" or "mother of wisdom" (iyá: “mother”; awó “mysteries").
Apart from the four, another monastery, Kanchi Kamkoti Peetham in South India, is also believed to have been established by Adi Shankara.
150 BCE - 100 CE, BRILL, ISBN 9789004155374 Sangave, Vilas Adinath (1980), Jain Community: A Social Survey (2nd ed.), Bombay: Popular Prakashan, ISBN 978-0-317-12346-3 Shah, Natubhai (2004) [First published in 1998], Jainism: The World of Conquerors, vol.
History As monasticism developed in the early days of Christianity, most monks remained laymen, as ordination to ministry was seen as a hindrance to the monks' vocation to a contemplative life.
The duties of both hegumen and archimandrite are the same, archimandrite being considered the senior dignity of the two.
Muni (Sanskrit: मुनि, "silent") is a term for types of ancient Indian sages and hermits or ancient Indian ascetics.
In the Mandaean diaspora, shgandas, or alternatively learned laymen called yalufa, often perform minor priestly roles due to shortages of tarmida and ganzibra priests abroad.
Scholarly Journals Peer-reviewed journals that publish scholarly articles and research on healthcare chaplaincy include the Journal of Health Care Chaplaincy (USA), the international journal Health and Social Care Chaplaincy (UK) and the Journal of Religion and Health (US).
The abolishment attracted a significant shift for Syria, which, for the first time since its independence, lacks a designated role solely responsible for issuing fatwas.
Religious institutions and Islamic parochial schools fall directly under the supervision of muhtasibats.
These ceremonial drums can include water drums, hand drums, and larger drums used during ceremonies such as Sun Dances and sweatlodges.
The 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica states in its article on sin-eaters: A symbolic survival of [sin-eating] was witnessed as recently as 1893 at Market Drayton, Shropshire.
Other There are also chaplains to private clubs, television or radio stations, family, community teams, groups such as Boys' and Girls' Brigade companies and Scout troops, airports, cruise ships, nightclubs, and theaters.
The novice must complete a postulancy before being admitted to the novitiate, the duration of which can be short or extend up to three years.
/ Like with like is buried, and the monuments are different in degrees of heat." Among the historical figures that Dante specifically lists as arch-heretics are Epicurus, Farinata Degli Uberti, Frederick II of Sicily, and Pope Anastasius II.
This Dvija-ceremony was recommended in medieval era texts for the Brahmins (priests and teachers), Kshatriyas (warriors), and Vaishyas (farmers & merchants) before they began their schools.
żyr, pożyrać "to devour": żerca turned into żyrca, and then when in all Polish words -ir- and -yr- turned into -er-, żerzec and żerca were formed.
Someone who goes on to complete postgraduate religious education receives the higher title of Mawlawi.
The Afghan Taliban was formed in 1994 by men who had graduated from, or at least attended, madrasas.
The dress is presumed to be related to the customary clothing of the culture, with some symbol of the deity worn on the head or held by the person.
In the Greek Catholic Church, the head of all monasteries in a certain territory is called the protohegumen.
His father Anthony Hurd (later Lord Hurd) and grandfather Sir Percy Hurd were also Members of Parliament.
An example, where the spelling is 'chopchyrche', occurs as the occupation of John Charles of Bishop's Milford, Wiltshire, as a defendant in a plea of debt, for 40/- (forty shillings) brought by John Wyot, merchant of Salisbury.
Sometimes the firzogerin translated more or less exactly; other times she translated freely and added her own interpretation.
They paid certain ecclesiastical tributes, and seem to have closely resembled the termonn lands of the early Irish Church.
A mantrik is known for his use of sorcery and magic and can be called upon for the casting of spells and magic, divination, astrology and all aspects of sorcery.
The Acaranga Sutra, or Book of Good Conduct, is a sacred book within Jainism that discusses the ascetic code of conduct.
Some observers link the decision to financial misconduct allegations involving Hassoun, dating back to his time as mufti of Aleppo.
Abhorred by the superstitious villagers as a thing unclean, the sin-eater cut himself off from all social intercourse with his fellow creatures by reason of the life he had chosen; he lived as a rule in a remote place by himself, and those who chanced to meet him avoided him as they would a leper.
The bhāṇaka system is believed to have originated in India, but the majority of the literary and inscriptional evidence relating to bhāṇakas comes from Sri Lanka.
The first shaliaḥ inferred in the Bible is the servant in Genesis 24 who was sent by Abraham to find a wife for Isaac (according to the rabbis, this servant was named Eliezer).
and Baltic countries are the historic national primates and some ancient cathedrals and parishes in the Lutheran church were constructed many centuries before the Reformation.
In Rome, the dancers from Cadiz were as famous as the Syrian ones and equally desired and exciting in dancing and singing.
Hurd's eldest son, Nick Hurd, was Conservative Member of Parliament for Ruislip Northwood and Pinner from May 2005 to December 2019.
He is then given the outer cassock (Greek: Rasson, Exorasson, or Mandorasson; Church Slavonic: Ryassa)—an outer robe with wide sleeves, something like the cowl used in the West, but without a hood—from which the name of Rassophore derives.
They typically lived in the monastic communities that began forming during that time, though sometimes they lived as hermits.
The race of the Brahmins, however, receive divine wisdom of this kind by succession, in the same manner as the priesthood.
In Wales and the Welsh Marches The term "sin-eater" appears to derive from Welsh culture and is most often associated with Wales itself and in the English counties bordering Wales.
This primacy, expressed in canonical literature as presbeia ("prerogatives", literally: "seniorities"), grants to the ecumenical patriarch the right to preside at pan-Orthodox synods.
In Mandaeism, a shganda (šganda; Classical Mandaic: ࡔࡂࡀࡍࡃࡀ, Modern Mandaic pronunciation: [əʃˈgænda]), shkanda (Arabic: شكندا, romanized: škandā), or ashganda (ʔšganda) is a ritual assistant who helps priests with ritual duties.
In order for members of the consecrated life to be appointed or elected to the office of superior, a suitable time is required after perpetual profession or promises, to be determined by proper law, or if it concerns major superiors, by the constitutions.
The expensive scarves that were meant to wrap the Guru Granth Sahib were auctioned off by the sarbarah or their usage allowed for wives and children of priests of the complex.
She is bound to God, the church and her community by vows or promises and is subordinate to her superior.
In 1965, the Second Vatican Council issued the document Perfectae Caritatis, which called upon all religious institutes to re-examine and renew their charism.
In England, the Benedictines made but slight use of lay brothers, finding the service of paid attendants more convenient.
William Forbes Skene holds that the correct meaning of abthain (or abthane) is not "abbot" or "over-thane", but "abbey" or "monastery".
{{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) External links List of All Digamber Jain Monks With detailed description Photo documentary of the Jain monks
Words such as Dvijanman appear in chapter 1.60 of Rigveda, but the context is not human beings, but "fire" once born in the heaven and then brought and born again on the earth.
Mitzvot that are performed on one's own body, such as wearing tefillin, cannot be performed on one's own behalf by a shaliah.
The role of a church usher is typically a volunteer position, and in the past was often considered one of honor, particularly if a church committee selects an usher by a nomination.
The term novitiate also refers to the building, house, or complex devoted to the novices' cells or dormitory and other needs, such as study and education.
With the defeat of the Byzantines and the fall of Constantinople, the Empire of Trebizond was formed under the Komnenos dynasty until the Ottoman Empire seized it.
In Sikhism, the scripture Adi Granth is considered to be last Guru hence the book is worshiped as like human Guru.
In Japan these women were priestesses, soothsayers, magicians, prophets and shamans in the folk religion, and they were the chief performers in organized Shinto.
All schools of Buddhism agree that shortly after the death of the Buddha, a council of his senior students was held to clarify and record his teachings.
Linguist and cultural historian Modupe Oduyoye said that the meaning of Odùduwà is Odù-ó dá ìwà "oracular utterance created existence." Historical accounts of iyalawo and iyanifa According to Babalawo K.
Wider uses of the pastoral metaphor in Christianity Pastoral imagery and symbolism feature heavily in Christianity and the Bible.
The word has special reference to the territories of the churches and monasteries founded by the old Celtic or Columban monks, mostly between the mountain chain of the Mounth and the Firth of Forth.
The prince-abbot had a seat and an individual vote (votum virile) in the Imperial Diet alongside the prince-bishops.
Modern Hinduism can be regarded as a combination of Vedic and śramaṇa traditions as it is substantially influenced by both traditions.
Qatar and Kuwait are the only independent countries which retain the title "emir" for their monarchs.
As part of the subsequent reforms and experimentation, many of the distinctions between lay and choir religious in terms of dress and spiritual regime were abolished or mitigated.
In many Christian denominations, a church usher is responsible for seating guests and maintaining the order and security of services.
In the Catholic Church, the head of a religious institute for women who is in charge of a convent, is sometimes referred to as Mother superior.
This is followed by another ritual in which the initiate receives a small broom made of wool called "Rajoharan" from their mentor as a symbol of welcome into the monastic order.
Professional chaplains act as mediator and reconciler, functioning in ways for those who need a voice in the healthcare system.
Measuring time through astrology: the declining role of the achar hora It is not uncommon for a traditional achar to act as astrologer (hora), and many monasteries once contained a good range of works on the subject in their libraries.
Conversely, some fundamentalist Protestants (including Alexander Hislop and Charles Chiniquy) have used the term to refer to the papacy and the members of the Roman Curia.
Such knowledge, whether agamic, spiritual, scriptural, architectural, musical, arts or martial arts, is imparted through the developing relationship between the guru and the disciple.
In the case of this tribe, scholars point even more strongly than in the case of the Veleti to the dominant role of priests in society and politics.
The city was known both as Hierocaesareia and Komana until the time of Titus (39–81 CE) (IGR III, 105,106).
However, Dazimon and Comana lie on the opposite ends of the Kazova plain (the site of the Battle of Anzen in 838).
Thus, in 1898, in Wat Prabat Chean Chûm near Phnom Rovieng, a millienarist movement led by Ngo Prep was supported by Achar Ke.
The Ottoman Empire had a similar territorial division called a kadiluk, which was more concerned with justice and taxation than religion.
A notable example is Bahrain, whose monarch changed his title from emir to king in 2002, whereas the titular United Arab Emirates use the title Sheikh instead of Emir for their subnational rulers.
4th century Apollinaris of Laodicea, founder of Apollinarianism, condemned at the 1st Council of Constantinople.
In contemporary usage, "emir" is also sometimes used as either an honorary or formal title for the head of an Islamic, or Arab (regardless of religion) organisation or movement.
Women have become students of Sanskrit and Vedic subjects, notably in India’s public institutions of higher learning, have chanted Vedic verses, and have even offered their services as specialists in Brahmanical rituals.
In due course an official document, entitled Buddhism and the Fatherland defined the correct relationship between religion and state and among those conditions was to preserve and cultivate the patriotic and revolutionary spirit exemplified by Achar Hem Chieu and Achar Mean.
Tarmida initiations Tarmida initiates or novices (šualia) have often been trained as shgandas when they were children.
In Shiism, the turban is usually white, but those who claim descent from Muhammad traditionally wear a black turban.
The mystagogue would reappear in his beastly form and feed on those who strayed from the tribe if it was not in keeping with their religious customs.
For example, in Mughal India, the Amirs commanded 1000 horsemen (divided into ten units, each under a sipah salar), ten of them under one malik.
Sufi sheiks flourished throughout the Islamic world more than any other type of personal authority because their mediatory skills were required for the smooth functioning of an agrarian-nomadic economy with a decentralized form of government.
As Sunni Islam does not prescribe any formal hierarchy or priesthood, qadiyats are primarily found in European- and Central Asian Islamic organizations, particularly in south-eastern Europe and countries deriving from the former Soviet Union.
The food was believed to absorb the sins of a recently dead person, thus absolving the soul of the deceased.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
In paramapara, not only is the immediate guru revered, the three preceding gurus are also worshipped or revered.
In Russia and in other parts of the former Soviet Union, a muhtasibat is directly subordinate to a qadiyat.
Although the first historical evidence of gender-separation appears as early as the eighth century in Karaite synagogues, the first direct discussion of gender segregation by rabbis appears in the tenth century.
Generally, a mantrik is supposed to derive his powers from the use of charms, mantras, spells and other methods.
Further reading Mukhyananda, Swami (2006) Sri Shankaracharya: life and philosophy: An elucidative and reconciliatory interpretation, 4th ed.; OCLC 426914596; Kolkata; Advaita Ashrama Esoteric Buddhism by A.P.
Canon law states that superiors "are to exercise their power, received from God through the ministry of the Church".
It differs in order in some cases from the list prepared by Moses Gaster on the basis of the ancient Samaritan sources, and includes additional names (italics here).
In 1951, producer Dick Ross and Baptist evangelist Billy Graham founded the film production company World Wide Pictures, which would make videos of his preaching and Christian films.
Minh was admitted to the International Communist Party in September 1945 and by March of the following year was commanding a Vietnamese-backed resistance group in Battambang that was designed to draw French forces away from southern Vietnam.
This practice remains controversial, however; a minority of provinces (10 out of the 38 worldwide) retain an all-male priesthood.
Mawlana (; from Persian, Arabic: مولانا), also spelled as Molana or Maulana, is a title preceding, mostly in South Asia, the name of respected Muslim religious leaders, in particular graduates of religious institutions, e.g.
A novice is free to leave the novitiate at any time and in most communities, the superiors are free to dismiss them with or without cause.
The exact sense of the word being lost, it was presumed to denote some ancient dignity, the holder of which was called abthanus or abthane.
A Drumkeeper is a common name for someone in an Indigenous community who has inherited a traditional sacred drum and the right to play it in ceremony, or been instructed by their Elders in how to make and play one in order to fulfill this role.
The ecumenical patriarch has no direct jurisdiction outside the Patriarchate of Constantinople granted to him in Orthodox canonical literature, but his primary function regarding the whole Orthodox Church is one of dealing with relations between autocephalous and autonomous churches.
شيوخ, shuyūkh), of Sufism is a Sufi who is authorized to teach, initiate and guide aspiring dervishes in the Islamic faith.
As Sunni Islam does not prescribe any formal hierarchy or priesthood, muhtasibats are primarily found in Eastern European and Central Asian Islamic organizations, particularly in countries part of the former Soviet Union.
The office is responsible for independent religious rulings and Sunni Muslim leadership amidst the ongoing civil conflict in the country.
In July 1999, TopChrétien, an evangelical Christian web portal and social network, was launched by Éric Célérier, pastor of the Assemblies of God of France and Estelle Martin.
Organization Church congregations often have a group of people that work as ushers led by a head usher.
As Sufism grew, influential shayks began to acquire spiritual centers and waypoints known as khanqah, ribat, and zaouia.
From Thietmar's description of the system of this confederation, it can be inferred that the confederation had no centralized authority, no king or knyaz was recognized, and decisions were made collectively in assemblies.
Such tokens can be as simple as a piece of fruit or as serious as a thumb, as in the case of Ekalavya and his guru Dronacharya.
The risalah contains an ayatollah's fatwas on different topics, according to his knowledge of the most authentic Islamic sources and their application to current life.
Hurd also resisted pressure to allow Bosnian refugees to enter into Britain arguing that to do so would reduce pressure on the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to sue for peace.
4th century, John Philoponus (6th century), founder of tritheism, condemned at the 3rd Council of Constantinople Macedonius I of Constantinople, founder of Macedonianism, condemned at the 1st Council of Constantinople.
Office of the High Priest Duties and responsibilities The Samaritan High Priest has the following duties in the present: He decides all religious law issues.
They did not participate in the mentality of the Confucian scholar-administrator, who sat on high in his tribunal issuing orders and never employing his hands except in reading and writing.
A great number of lay brothers left religious life in the years following the Second Vatican Council.
In 2004, South Korea became the second-largest source of missionaries in the world, after the United States and ahead of England.
The order, propagated throughout Anatolia, controlled Konya and environs by the 15th century and in the 17th century appeared in Istanbul.
They would take on the role of teacher and could be consulted by anyone with sincere spiritual inquiries, and they would guide humanity in times of trouble and give solace.
The caliphs first used the title Amir al-Muminin or "Commander of the Faithful", stressing their leadership over the Islamic empire, especially over the militia.
'person who initiates into mysteries') is a person who initiates others into mystic beliefs, and an educator or person who has knowledge of the sacred mysteries of a belief system.
A medicine man or medicine woman is a traditional healer and spiritual leader who serves a community of Indigenous people of the Americas.
A superior should ideally appoint an experienced member of the community to serve as novice master or mistress.
The Samaritan High Priest (Samaritan Hebrew haka’en hagadol; Arabic: الكاهن الأكبر, romanized: al-Kāhin al-Akbar) is the High Priest of Israel for the Samaritans.
By contrast, cave inscriptions from Sri Lanka ranging in date from the 3rd century BCE to the 1st century CE make specific references to monks who specialized in the Samyutta Nikaya, Majjhima Nikaya, or Anguttara Nikaya.
The office may head a local house, a region of houses (prior provincial), or the entire order (prior general).
Mount Athos The monastic communities of Mount Athos are stauropegic and they are directly under the jurisdiction of the ecumenical patriarch, the only bishop who has jurisdiction over them.
Notable shgandas Salem Choheili (born 1935), scribe, teacher, and author in Ahvaz See also Acolyte Altar server == References ==
As a result, the position of iyanifa did not become well known in the States until the 1990s, when African American women began to go to Africa for their initiations.
These pre-Buddhist śrāmana movements were organized Sanghagani (orders of monks and ascetics), according to the Buddhist Samaññaphala Sutta.
Eason recounts how in 1992, the King of Oyotunji, Adefunmi, under pressure from women at Oyotunji to allow them to be initiated as Ifá priests, went to Benin, having assumed that Ile Ife did not initiate women at the time.
For things that cannot be found in those books, you turn to the nearest representative of your marja, write a letter or e-mail or, more recently, raise the question on the website of your marja and receive your answer.
Kshatriyakulavatans Chhatrapati Maharaj Maharani Peshwa PratapRao Appa Sardar Deshmukh Patil Rao Sikh honorific Sardar Sardarni Giani Nepali (Gorkhali) honorifics Associated with the Khas Kings of Nepal, esp.
In the Catholic Church, the canonical time of the novitiate is one year; in case of additional length, it must not be extended beyond two years.
The head usher receives instructions directly from the pastor and is responsible for training and scheduling ushers.
Tatiana Hurd cited her husband's career as the reason for their separation, saying, "Really, politics don't mix with marriage".
The prestige of the office continued to grow not only because of the obvious patronage of the Byzantine Emperor but because of its overwhelming geographical importance.
A muhtasibat is an Islamic territorial division overseen by a muhtasib and is directly subordinate to a qadi and qadiyat.
In some cultures, the people will not even discuss these matters with American Indians from other tribes.
Estimated ultimate recovery or expected ultimate recovery (EUR) of a resource is the sum of the proven reserves at a specific time and the cumulative production up to that point.
Iran's gas infrastructure is inefficient, with significant losses due to flaring, leaks, and low productivity.
Poor people spend a higher portion of their income on food, so increasing food prices influence them more.
The history of the supermajors traces back to the seven oil companies which formed the "Consortium for Iran" cartel and dominated the global petroleum industry from the mid-1940s to the 1970s.
On 6 August 1954, a fire in the Seria oil field caused an estimated M$3,500 in damage, destroying three storage buildings that housed machinery belts, furniture, and a trade training school, while engineers managed to shut off two nearby oil wells.
Designated S-1, the well was drilled using the cable-tool method and was located on the Seria coastline.
By 1866, US petroleum exports far surpassed petroleum distributed to domestic markets and the value of these exports nearly doubled from $16 million in 1865 to $30 million in 1869.
In the states of Texas and Pennsylvania, the statutory definition of a gas well is one where the GOR is greater than 100,000 ft3/bbl or 100 Kcf/bbl.
This vague classification of purchasing mineral rights also prevents individuals from knowing what they can purchase and at what value.
Nevertheless, Madhesis were the only movement with state support from India, but prominent Madhesi leader, Mahato, has backed down as of 4 February 2016.
Although no reliable estimates are available, unemployment is reportedly acute: over 50% of the population under the age of 20.
The low price of oil internationally compensated to a certain extent for the higher price of oil caused by the devaluation.
The Ohio Oil Rush Oil production climbed year after year, especially after major oil and gas reserves were found in Wood County in northwest Ohio in the 1880s.
Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Limited (ISPRL) is an Indian public sector company responsible for maintaining the country's strategic petroleum reserves.
[1] Professional experience In 1958, as a member of Abadan Refinery's Center for Petrochemical Engineering, he initiated a number of innovations, including an innovative formulation for the production of JP4 (Jet Fuel), which until 1995 was used world-wide to fuel fighter jets.
Each quadrant is divided into 30 blocks measuring 10 minutes of latitude and 12 minutes of longitude.
If true, the collapse in demand due to the Covid pandemic from early 2020, the acceleration of previous trends (e.g.
SOFAZ invests internationally and holds assets in more than 60 countries, including listed securities as well as infrastructure and renewable energy projects.
Characteristics One of the reasons the petroyuan was created was that Russia, Venezuela and Iran may be able to avoid the United States' sanctions, so nations such as Saudi Arabia, one of the main oil producers and extractors could avoid dollar hegemony and U.S.
In addition to broader fuel supply disruptions, reports in April 2026 indicated significant impacts on global energy and aviation markets linked to tensions in the Strait of Hormuz during the Iran–United States conflict.
The average US retail price of a gallon of regular gasoline rose 43% from 38.5¢ in May 1973 to 55.1¢ in June 1974.
The modern meaning of "rentier states" was first defined by Hossein Mahdavy in his economic analysis of the Imperial State of Iran.
Each of these country values is subsequently weighted by the exports of the countries in order to compute a single, weighted, global PRIX index number that sums up the political risk for international oil markets during the coming three months.
A total of 5.33 MMT (million metric tons) storage capacity was built at an investment of $600 million in the first phase.
Firepower is an Australian success story—operating in over 50 countries globally and currently expanding rapidly into new markets.
Hundreds of thousands of Indian nationals have been repatriated from the region, including a high percentage of the skilled professionals and business owners, driving a 14% growth in secondary real estate markets of India.
In May 2025 SOFAZ invested a €20 million stake in the private equity fund Azzurra Capital Fund I, managed by the company Azzurra Capital, based in Dubai.
On March 27th the Shahid Rezayee Nejad yellowcake production facility in Yazd had been attacked, as well as the Khondab heavy water complex near Arak.
IEA World Energy Outlook and British Petroleum The 2008 World Energy Outlook of the International Energy Agency suggested that there was sufficient oil supply to meet demand at reasonable prices for the foreseeable future.
The oil depletion allowance has been subject of interest because one method (percentage depletion) of claiming the allowance makes it possible to write off more than the whole capital cost of the asset.
Petrol usage and pricing in Europe Most European countries have higher fuel taxes than the US, but Russia and some neighboring countries have a much smaller tax, with fuel prices similar to the US.
Examples of swing producers include Saudi Arabia in oil, Russia in potash fertilizers, and, historically, the De Beers Company in diamonds.
Libya's GDP grew in 2001 due to high oil prices, the end of a long cyclical drought, and increased foreign direct investment following the suspension of UN sanctions in 1999.
The 3rd GECF summit was a biennial Gas Exporting Countries Forum summit, an international relations conference attended by the heads of state or heads of government of most member states of the GECF.
Higher octane levels cost more, with premium grade averaging about 68 cents per gallon more than regular grade in 2021.
Hostage at OPEC siege by Carlos the Jackal On December 22, 1975, he was taken hostage along with Iran's Minister Jamshid Amouzegar, Zaki Yamani (Saudi Arabian Oil Minister) and twelve other Oil Ministers in a terror attack on OPEC headquarters in Vienna, Austria.
1990s United Nations Angola Verification Mission III and MONUA spent US$1.5 billion overseeing implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, a 1994 peace accord that ultimately failed to end the civil war.
Australia, which sources most of its jet fuel from China, followed by Singapore and South Korea, has 30 days' worth of jet fuel held in reserve.
Most commonly, it describes how quickly and to what extent changes in upstream prices (such as raw materials, production inputs, or wholesale prices) affect downstream prices (such as the final retail prices paid by consumers).
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
The regime exacerbated shortages by supporting large military and internal security forces and by allocating resources to key supporters of the ruling Party.
In such cases, the swing producer switches to the punitive mode and greatly increases its product output in order to reduce prices, causing losses for other producers and making them cooperate.
Pennsylvania Rock Oil Company News of Kier's experiments spread, and George Bissell, a lawyer from New York, learned of Kier's success.
EIA's 2007 International Energy Outlook estimates that tar sand production will climb to 2,300,000 bbl/d (370,000 m3/d) in 2015 and 3.6 million barrels per day (570×10^3 m3/d) in 2030.
In 2012, PI&D demanded arbitration in London, alleging that Nigeria had not supplied the agreed quantity of gas or to construct the infrastructure it had agreed to build.
He was examined in detail over various financial transactions, including family travel payments and transactions surrounding the purchase of his Mosman Park mansion and claimed that he was forced to buy the property by his close friend and occasional antagonist Warren Anderson.
International reactions Bangladesh – On 18 October, Tofail Ahmed, Minister of Commerce, Bangladesh, urged an end to the blockade and commented that such blockades hit at agreements like the BBIN.
Beyond immediate trade disruptions, analysts have noted a profound shift in the region's long-term economic narrative.
In October 2025, SOFAZ invested £50 million in London Gatwick Airport alongside Global Infrastructure Partners, part of BlackRock, as part of a major infrastructure investment in Europe.
ISPRL is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB), which functions under the administrative control of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.
The government introduced new currency denominations in 1999, including a 1 and 5 kwanza note."Central Bank governor explains arrangements for new currency".
Resulting in seed dispersal and disrupted animal migrations, making it difficult for species to survive and support genetic diversity.
One of the attractiveness of the license blocks in Norway are the economical benefits given by its taxation policy.
Recognizing them can be very difficult at times, for example after a bit trip, when a couple of miles of drill pipe has been extracted and returned to the hole in order to replace a dull bit.
The index therefore does not predict the oil price itself as it does not cover economic and technological developments, but it can function as a component in oil price forecasting.
Canada also significantly increased oil production during the 2000s oil crisis, mostly in Alberta in the form of the Athabasca oil sands, though a transportation and logistics crisis in Alberta has slowed continued growth in supplies.
It is approximately 42 gigajoules or 11.630 megawatt-hours, although as different crude oils have different calorific values, the exact value is defined by convention; several slightly different definitions exist.
At the same time, US oil production nearly doubled from 2008 levels and approached the world-leading "swing producer" volumes of Saudi Arabia and Russia, due to the substantial long-term improvement and spread of shale "fracking" technology in response to the years of record oil prices.
In most instances, the remaining reserves are not easily accessible when oil prices subsequently rise again: when marginal fields are abandoned, the surface infrastructure – the pumps, piping, storage vessels, and other processing equipment – is removed and the lease forfeited.
Although significant, the proportion of expatriate workers is still below oil producing countries in the Persian Gulf.
At the summit, OPEC agreed to cut oil production by an additional 1.5 million barrels per day through the second quarter of the year (a total production cut of 3.6 million bpd from the original 2016 agreement), with the group expected to review the policy on 9 June during their next meeting.
The report added that other dealers were expected to be targeted, including the private companies of property tycoon Warren Anderson and Sydney lawyer Les Stein, both of whom were heavily involved in Firepower.
President Richard Nixon ended the dollar convertibility to gold, many foreign currencies emerged trying to replicate the pre-1971 situation.
Private companies generally dominate the food sector in Algeria, with large companies including Cevital, La Belle, Groupe Bimo, Hamoud Boualam, Ifri, Général Emballage.
Shale production robbed OPEC of a large portion of its market power, forcing it to co-operate with other producers to keep prices up after Saudi Arabia effectively declared defeat in the price war in 2016.
Bardi concluded that rapid collapse is not a flaw, or "bug" as he terms it, but a "varied and ubiquitous phenomena" with multiple causes and resultant pathways.
By the end of October 2009 one in twelve of the largest oil tankers was being used more for temporary storage of oil, rather than transportation.
This is mainly due to "energy invested" varying depending on technology, methodology, and system boundary assumptions, resulting in a range from a maximum of 2000 kWh/m2 of module area down to a minimum of 300 kWh/m2, with a median value of 585 kWh/m2 according to a meta-study from 2013.
Any other resource estimates are likely to be analog-only derived YTF volumes, which are speculative.
Despite this, the percentage of government spending going to non-oil investment has continued to decline since 2013 and now stands at only 34 per cent.
While new technologies have increased the accuracy of these estimation techniques, significant uncertainties still remain, which are expressed as a range of potential recoverable oil & gas quantities using probabilistic methods.
On November 14, 2025, S&P Global announced the rebranding of Commodity Insights to S&P Global Energy, effective immediately, to sharpen its focus on global energy intelligence amid evolving market demands.
The international Oil-for-Food program (1997–2003) further reduced farm production by supplying artificially priced foreign foodstuffs.
The funds were allocated to procure fuel and support emergency energy measures, with procurement initiated by the state-owned Philippine National Oil Company Exploration Corporation (PNOCEC) to help prevent shortages and maintain essential services.
In 2009, GasBuddy launched OpenStore, a platform that allows convenience stores to build and manage their own mobile apps.
The company's 211 retail service stations are owned and operated by Omanis and also offer car maintenance services, such as oil changes, car washes and other service packages.
Also, in 1960, he pioneered the usage and application of computer systems, automating the control and calibration of Iran's petroleum production and refining systems, a world first.
These long-term efforts became effective enough that US oil consumption rose only 11 percent during 1980–2014, while real GDP rose 150 percent.
Return of Johnston to Australia Because Johnston was never charged with fraud, ASIC lacked the necessary criminal-law basis for pursuit of his extradition to face charges in Australia.
The 2013 oil supply glut that led to the "largest oil price declines in modern history" in 2014 to 2016.
Additionally, but to a lesser extent, Canadian oil-sands production has helped increase oil supply since 2008.
The earlier basket consisted of seven crudes: Saharan Blend (from Algeria) Minas (from Indonesia) Isthmus (from Mexico, a non-OPEC country) Bonny Light (from Nigeria) Arab Light (from Saudi Arabia) Fateh (from Dubai, UAE) Tia Juana Light (from Venezuela) == References ==
Output rose to an average of 250,000 barrels per day by 1979, with onshore production making up only 15 percent.
Bilateral meetings Russian President Vladimir Putin met Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
In 2016, when McGraw-Hill changed its name to S&P Global, the Platts division was renamed S&P Global Platts.
The results of the tender, which were broadcast live on Iraqi television, are as follows for all major fields awarded but excluding the Kurdistan Region where Production Sharing Contracts have been awarded that are currently being disputed by the Baghdad government.
The operation was given on a context where China dominated crude oil importations, with approximately 400 million tons as of 2017 as stated by Sinopec, one of China's biggest oil companies.
"Oil Extraction, Economic Growth, and Oil Price Dynamics." BioPhysical Economics and Resource Quality 2.1 (2017): 1.
"It's time for Congress to realize what farmers in America's heartland have known all along: that we have the capacity and ingenuity to decrease our dependence on foreign oil by growing our own fuel", said U.S.
However, other factors than political risks affect the global balance between supply and demand of oil and thus contribute to setting the oil price.
These wells have produced more than 1 billion barrels of oil and 9 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
The study was claimed to be the first to undertake an 'independent, thorough and systematic review of the evidence and arguments in the 'peak oil' debate'.
In September 1954, a large new plant began operating at Seria to extract petroleum fractions from waste gas.
In a January 2013 federal lease sale, the top bid was $19,500 per acre for a lease on one tract in North Dakota.
Participating leaders Full members: Observer members: Special Guest: Final communique The final communique underscored the need for stronger cooperation, including the transfer of expertise and pricing mechanisms.
He used Iran's development to establish himself as a strongman across the Middle East and the Persian Gulf and create an oil oligarchy controlling the price of oil.
In that scenario, Goldman Sachs predicts that gasoline in the United States will reach $3.50 per gallon and inflation will become a permanent problem.
Other shareholders include Oman Cement Company, BankMuscat and Dhofar International Development and Investment Holding Company.
The stalled development of the South Pars gas field has worsened the imbalance, and Iran's oil minister warned in 2022 that without $240 billion in investment, Iran could become a net energy importer.
External shocks to the system (i.e., sudden changes to downstream or upstream prices) should trigger short- and long-run adjustments toward this equilibrium, as rational economic agents price their goods to maximize their constant utility function.
Corporate structure Management The chairman of the board of directors is Mulham Al Jarf and vice-chair is Sayadah Rawan Ahmed Al Saidand.
A 2006 study could not find major regulatory impediments to microfinance and suggested that the geographical net of postal offices – offering an increasing number of financial services to customers – holds a high potential of increasing access to finance for the Algerian population.
The OPEC Basket, including a mix of light and heavy crude oil products, is heavier than both Brent crude oil, and West Texas Intermediate crude oil.
Hubbert's theory is used to predict when a resource will reach its peak of production by studying past resource discovery and production trends.
Once the sea dried up, it left land with flat terrain along with many deposits of decaying marine life that later became hydrocarbons.
On September 2025, Anwar Ibrahim, the Prime Minister of Malaysia decided to revive the fuel subsidy program through BUDI MADANI RON95 or abbreviated BUDI95.
The gas/oil ratio (GOR) is the ratio of the volume of gas ("scf") that comes out of solution to the volume of oil — at standard conditions.
Its President Rajendra Mahato stated that the blockade had been done by the Madheshi people and that India had nothing to do with it.
On the other hand, it is reported that the vehicles weren't allowed to enter Nepal by the Indian side thus resulting in long queues of Nepalese trucks stranded for days Inside the Indian border.
A further complication arises from a controversial new privatization plan in the latest budget, which allows military and state-connected entities, such as the General Staff of the Armed Forces, to sell oil and retain the profits.
By 1975, western oil companies complained of the agreement and demanded renegotiation marking the first time in history that oil companies rather than the oil producing nations sought to negotiate an oil contract.
Multiples of the toe are used, in particular the megatoe (Mtoe, one million toe) and the gigatoe (Gtoe, one billion toe).
The companies founded by Platt that published prices and news were acquired in 1953 to become part of what was then known as McGraw-Hill group, which was later to become S&P Global.
Overseas protests against blockade Nepalese residing in the UK demonstrated against the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 10 Downing Street, London during his visit on 12 November 2015.
The high price of oil in late 2021, which resulted in US gasoline pump prices that rose by over $1 a gallon—a seven-year high—added pressure to the United States, which has extensive reserves of oil and has been one of the world's largest producers of oil since at least 2018.
The first country to successfully nationalize after the structural change of the industry was Algeria, which nationalized 51% of the French companies only ten days after the 1971 Tehran agreement and later was able to nationalize 100% of their companies.
Since much of this equipment was probably installed over many years, replacing it over a short period should oil prices jump upward is cost prohibitive.
Also in that year, GasBuddy released a completely redesigned app, its first major redesign since its release in 2010.
It would be some consolation for the feebleness of our selves and our works, if all things should perish as slowly as they come into being; but as it is, increases are of sluggish growth, but the way to ruin is rapid.
Although such subsidies exist, the sale of fuel is also taxed at rates that far exceed the sales tax rates for other goods, to help pay for bridge and road repair.
He has also pointed out that the USGS failed to extrapolate past discovery trends in the world's mature basins.
A number above 50 indicates that political developments may lead to higher oil exports, while a value below 50 indicates lower exports.
Modes By modeling the swing producer behavior, John Morecroft describes two modes: normal swing mode and punitive mode.
Because the country generates 96% of its electricity from oil, the government has started rationing electricity in the capital, Juba, which affects businesses, and rolling power cuts are expected to continue.
Background The summit was announced during the first meeting of the High-Level Ad Hoc Group for the 3rd Gas Summit on 20 May 2015.
In fact, gas dissolution and oil volume shrinkage will happen at many stages during the path of the hydrocarbon stream from reservoir through the wellbore and processing plant to export.
When oil is produced to surface temperature and pressure it is usual for some natural gas to come out of solution.
Thus, the PRIX index forecast may help identify potential trajectories of international price of oil.
In late 1859, blacksmith William Jeffrey drilled the first well in Ohio specifically intended to produce petroleum.
In 2022, when S&P Global completed a merger with IHS Markit, it combined the divisions S&P Global Platts and IHS Markit ENR to form the renamed S&P Global Commodity Insights, dropping Platts from the division's name, though preserving it in the ongoing Platts Global Energy Awards.
Government also constantly shutdown schools, banks and public offices nationally due to air pollution from mazut.
Between 1900 and 1940, only 35,000 Portuguese emigrants settled in Angola, and most worked in commerce in the cities, facilitating trade with Portugal.
The two data sets are then merged using the common time base to create an instrument response versus depth log.
Prices subsequently moderated to approximately $100 per barrel after G7 finance ministers announced a potential coordinated release of strategic petroleum reserves.
In this study, which uses an insolation of 1700 kWh/m2/yr and a system lifetime of 30 years, mean harmonised EROIs between 8.7 and 34.2 were found.
The OPEC Reference Basket (ORB), also referred to as the OPEC Basket, is a weighted average of prices for petroleum blends produced by OPEC members.
Petroyuan is a form of the official Chinese currency, the yuan intended at least initially for oil trading.
The war has also affected some exports, with ships taking longer to reach their destination, so the Kenya Ports Authority has prioritised the export of perishable products such as tea, flowers, and avocados.
Oil resources, which account for approximately 95% of export earnings, 75% of government receipts, and over 50% of GDP.
In 2005 the labor participation rate was only 52 percent, versus an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development average of 70 percent.
At the same time, Portuguese began emigrating to Angola to establish farms and plantations (fazendas) to grow cash crops for export.
In 2021, the GasBuddy app rose to the most popular app on both Android and iPhone platforms in the wake of the Colonial Pipeline ransomware attack PDI acquired GasBuddy in 2021.
Percentage depletion With this method, a fixed percentage of the gross income is treated as deductible.
The crisis has further impacted industrial output in the United Kingdom and the EU, where chemical and steel manufacturers have imposed surcharges of up to 30% to offset surging electricity and feedstock costs, potentially leading to permanent deindustrialization in some sectors.
However, independent participants can take unjust advantage of the reduced supply and increase their output in order to win a larger market share.
China China has been estimated by various sources to hold around 900 million to 1.4 billion barrels in its oil reserves.
On 26 March 2018, the Chinese government issued the first long term oil trading contracts denominated in petroyuans.
See also 2020 stock market crash Economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic Russia–Saudi Arabia relations 1973 oil crisis 1980s oil glut 2010s oil glut 2021–2023 global energy crisis Petroleum politics == References ==
The northern hegemony, ruled by Hausa and Fulani, took a military dictatorship and seized control of oil production.
An attempt to acquire OPIS in 2011 failed following market objections and Federal Trade Commission resistance.
They go on to display oil wells with GOR of less than 5 MCFG/BBL and oil and gas wells between these limits.
Premature abandonment Many of these wells are marginally economic and at risk of being prematurely abandoned.
Environmentalists disagree with Solow's conclusion about the role of technology because it neglects to consider the increases in exploitation of natural resources which may be responsible for much of the growth attributed to technology.
Telecommunication The Nigerian Communications Commissions (NCC) said on 14 January 2022 the telecommunications sector contributed 12.45per cent to Nigeria's Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Since 2007, OPEC has published the "World Oil Outlook" (WOO) annually, in which it presents a comprehensive analysis of the global oil industry including medium- and long-term projections for supply and demand.
The market for petroleum is "small" compared to the market for crude oil in terms of quantities sold / bought, so that downstream prices cannot drive upstream prices.
It is estimated that 79.5 percent of the world's proven oil reserves are located within OPEC nations, with the Middle East alone accounting for 67.2 percent of OPEC's total reserves.
If there is even a little permeability to water, ions can move through the rock and decrease the voltage difference with the mud nearby.
oil production nearly doubled from 2008 levels, due to substantial improvements in shale "fracking" technology in response to record oil prices.
Roosevelt decried it and other tax-avoidance stratagems by business as “so widespread and so amazing, both in their boldness and their ingenuity, that further action without delay seems imperative.” The US Congress refused to abolish the allowance.
After completing his preliminary education in Saqqez and Hamadan, in 1948 he obtained his high school diploma in mathematics from the "Jordan College" (Alborz Highschool) preparatory boarding school, in Tehran, under the tutelage of Mohamad Ali Mojtahedi.
Alongside this, a small refinery processed approximately 100 tonnes (98 long tons; 110 short tons) of crude oil daily to meet the needs of the field and the growing local demand for fuel.
Non-manmade energy inputs The natural or primary energy sources are not included in the calculation of energy invested, only the human-applied sources.
Due to war-time oil development, which proved the great potential for oil discovery in the Middle East, there was little hesitation in investing capital in Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
More significantly, inter-state relations in the region have been affected as oil states try to ensure stability and tranquillity for their rent by buying allegiance from neighbouring states – in effect, sharing the oil rent.
Derived units For multiples of the tonne of oil equivalent, it is more usual to speak of millions of tonnes of oil equivalent and kilotonnes of oil equivalent (ktoe).
Goldman Sachs said that this structural shift was "reshaping global energy markets and bringing with it a new era of volatility" by "impacting markets, economies, industries and companies worldwide" and will keep the price of oil lower for a prolonged period.
The economy of Nigeria is a lower-middle-income, mixed economy and emerging market, with expanding manufacturing, financial, service, communications, technology, and entertainment sectors.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, factory output and transportation demand fell, bringing overall demand for oil down as well, and causing oil prices to fall.
Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau in 1937 declared the depletion allowance “perhaps the most glaring loophole” in the tax code.
Biofuel from food byproducts and coproducts Biofuels can also be produced from the waste byproducts of food-based agriculture (such as citrus peels or used vegetable oil) to manufacture an environmentally sustainable fuel supply, and reduce waste disposal cost.
Up until then, it was considered a “nuisance.” During this period, many towns in Ohio experienced rapid boom-to-bust cycles.
See also Hubbert curve Societal collapse Joseph Tainter References https://books.google.ca/books/about/The_Seneca_Effect.html?id=F14yDwAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&source=kp_read_button&redir_esc=y Further reading Bardi, Ugo (2018).
Oil sector Libya is an OPEC member and holds the largest proven oil reserves in Africa (followed by Nigeria and Algeria), 41.5 Gbbl (6.60×109 m3) as of January 2007, up from 39.1 Gbbl (6.22×109 m3) in 2006.
Modern sonic configurations with pingers and microphones at both ends of the log, combined with computer analysis, minimize the averaging somewhat.
In 1959, the Seven Sisters reduced the price of oil for Venezuela and Middle Eastern producers, which provoked anger among oil-producing governments.
Electronics The most successful manufacturer of laptops in Nigeria is, by their own admission, the indigenous Zinox Technologies in Lagos.
Ironworks were erected to supply drilling tools, and eight oil refineries were built between 1862 and 1868.
In 2021, crude oil accounted for 53.6%, taxes 16.4%, distribution and marketing 15.6%, and refining 14.4%.
The lack of financial autonomy has limited Pemex's own investment capacity, inducing the company to become highly indebted and to use an out of budget mechanism of deferred payment of projects (PIDIREGAS) to finance the expansion of production.
Analog-only techniques are called yet-to-find (YTF), and involve identifying areas containing producing assets that are geologically similar to those being estimated and substituting data to match what is known about a segment.
The tonne of oil equivalent (abbreviated toe) is a unit of energy defined as the amount of energy released by burning one tonne of crude oil.
Infrastructure effects The industrialization and population boom put a strain on roads, water supplies, sewage systems, and government services in the Bakken Formation and Williston Basin area.
Collocation of a waste generator with a waste-to-ethanol plant can reduce the waste producer's operating cost, while creating a more-profitable ethanol production business.
Such dominance was not the intention of Luciani: Indeed, it has never been my understanding that the rentier state paradigm should be either the sole or the overwhelming tool of interpretation of the political economy of oil-producing countries.
The UKCS (United Kingdom Continental Shelf) is divided into quadrants of 1 degree latitude and one degree longitude.
Jet Motor Company in Epe, Lagos State, is producing Nigeria's first electric-powered delivery trucks in partnership with GIG Logistics.
Drake strikes oil Drake began drilling for oil in Titusville near Oil Creek, but at first met with little success.
Instead, the government essentially 'bribes' the citizenry with extensive social welfare programs, becoming an allocation or distributive state.
In 2017, GasBuddy launched a gas savings program titled "Pay with GasBuddy" intended to let consumers save at gas stations in the United States.
There are two non-reserve resource categories: Contingent resources Once a discovery has been made, prospective resources can be reclassified as contingent resources.
In June 2018, the Narendra Modi administration approved the construction of a new storage facility in Chandikhole and doubling the capacity at Padur.
CERA, which counts unconventional sources in reserves while discounting EROEI, believes that global production will eventually follow an "undulating plateau" for one or more decades before declining slowly.
Initially only available in the United States and Canada, GasBuddy launched in Australia in March 2016.
Other companies not directly involved in trading oil and gas, but still supplying accessories such as drilling, fracking and refining equipment, have also been associated with Big Oil due to their political influence.
Several shopping malls in the country reduced their operating hours in response to energy crisis in the country.
The commercial business supplies all sectors of the economy and is particularly strong in the civil engineering and construction industry.
Subsequent to serving out his term, he lived in Iran and the United States, and died at the age of 90, from Alzheimer, in Tehran, Iran.
From 1994 to 2006, approximately 177,000 marginal wells were plugged and abandoned, representing a number equal to 42 percent of all operating wells in 2006, costing the U.S.
When Richard Nixon became US president in 1969, he assigned George Shultz to head a committee to review the Eisenhower-era quota program.
Johnson is also the author of Geography of the Heart: A Memoir(1996) which received a Lambda Literary Award and the American Library Association Award for best gay/lesbian nonfiction.
Advocacy work at her school Ross was an advisor to the Latin School’s gay-straight alliance for 25 years and the first out lesbian on the Independent Schools Association of the Central States diversity committee.
Bollig, Ben "Nestor Perlongher and the Avant-Garde: Privileged Interlocuters and Inherited Techniques", Hispanic Review - Volume 73, Number 2, Spring 2005, pp.
His parents and sister did survive the war, thanks to help from their Christian relatives on his mother's side.
She is a lesbian and was married to filmmaker Cheryl Swannack until March 15, 2020, when Swannack died due to Parkinson's disease.
Their mission is to tell and retell the shared story of humanity in order to promote trust and cooperation between all people.
Bókafélagið, Reykjavík 1996 Hádegisverðurinn er aldrei ókeypis (There Ain't No Such Thing as a Free Lunch).
Career Kenyon College In 2018, Debussy began working for the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Kenyon College, leading LGBTQ programs and initiatives.
As a German radical, 1839–1850 In 1839, Giesler moved to Münster, where she worked as a writer, publishing fiction, poetry, and columns in periodicals and prayer books.
Selected publications Books The Lavender Bans: A Century of Anti-LGBTQ+ Policies in the US Military.
Articles Some of her publications are: Paper 'Moduli Spaces of Framed G–Higgs Bundles and Symplectic Geometry'.
Milk's most successful opponent was the quiet and thoughtful lawyer Rick Stokes, who was backed by the Alice B.
Career As the BIA had funded her education, there was an expectation, which she rejected, that Davids would teach at a reservation school.
Riordan's leadership during these strike actions were criticised by union members as well as the press.
In June 2019, Voeller was one of the inaugural fifty American “pioneers, trailblazers, and heroes” inducted on the National LGBTQ Wall of Honor within the Stonewall National Monument (SNM) in New York City’s Stonewall Inn.
Collingwood Scholar at Pembroke College; and he founded, with some like-minded friends, the Oxford Hayek Society.
References Sources Néstor Perlongher: the poetic search for an Argentine marginal voice, Ben Bollig, University of Wales Press, 2008, ISBN 978-0-7083-2123-2.
She later worked at the Max Planck Institute in Bonn, the University of Oxford, the University of Porto and the University of Plymouth.
Houston, Tex.: Blaffer Gallery, the Art Museum of the University of Houston; New York, N.Y.: Distributed by D.A.P./Distributed Art Publishers, 2008.
John Fenton Johnson is an American writer and professor of English and LGBT Studies at the University of Arizona.
It received the 2004 Kentucky Literary Award for Nonfiction and the 2004 Lambda Literary Award for best LGBT creative nonfiction.
Beck returned to Berlin in 1979 where he was the director of the Jewish Adult Education Center in Berlin.
Career He came out in 1969 and went on to become a teacher in 1972 at the Roger Manwood School, Lewisham.
With director Michelle Lawler and executive producer Kim Klausner she subsequently co-produced Forever's Gonna Start Tonight (2009), a documentary film about Vicki Marlane, an HIV-positive, transgender performer at nightclubs and lounges.
See also Capital punishment for homosexuality Criminalization of homosexuality in majority-Muslim countries Homosexuality in society List of executed people Violence against LGBT people Notes References External links Claude Courouve, Procès de sodomie en France, (1307-1783).
Poemas completos: 1980-1992, Buenos Aires: Planeta, 1997; Grupo Editorial Planeta S.A.I.C./Seix Barral, 2003, ISBN 978-950-731-366-0.
In 1989, he became executive director of the Shanti Project, a nonprofit AIDS service organization in San Francisco.
She went on to become executive director of the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission from 2003 until 2009, going on to serve in the same position at the Stonewall Community Foundation.
With Stephen Whittle she co-edited The Transgender Studies Reader (Routledge 2006), which was her first work to win a Lambda Literary Award.
Uribe founded Project 10 in 1984 to help schools curtail harassment of homosexual students, therefore reducing the LGBT dropout rate.
Through a statement with Athlete Ally, she, in protest, publicly resigned from her role with NCAA Division III athletics.
She then worked as a literary history teacher in different universities (Vienna, Zurich, Munich, Basel).
Includes: "Death in Venice"; "Tonio Kröger"; "Mario and the Magician"; "Disorder and Early Sorrow"; "A Man and His Dog"; "The Blood of the Walsungs"; "Tristan"; "Felix Krull".
In 2026, Debussy's book, The Lavender Bans: A Century of Anti-LGBTQ+ Policies in the US Military, was praised by a former United States Secretary of the Army.
Astronomical Society of the Pacific conference co-hosted by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, 18–21 June 2006.
The Ethics of Narration: Uwe Johnson's Novels from Ingrid Babendererde to Jahrestage, MHRA Texts and Dissertations, 28 (MHRA) == References ==
"We Will Get What We Ask For: Why Legalizing Gay and Lesbian Marriage Will Not Dismantle the Legal Structure of Gender in Every Marriage".
Later, he lived for a while in Rome, where he worked at the German Historical Institute of the Repertorium Germanicum.
Stryker's most recent documentary is Christine in the Cutting Room (2013), an experimental film about Christine Jorgensen.
Bibliography of Astronomical Publications at the University of Helsinki Observatory and Astrophysics Laboratory, 1815-1984.
individual identity Jordan explores that, as human beings, we possess two very contrasting identities.
In 2018, Cohen said the Netanyahu government's failure to include same-sex couples in a new surrogacy law was "shameful" and said that the bill should not have been passed.
She is a member of the Sistema Nacional de Investigadores (National System of Researchers) and a co-founder of the Programa Universitario de Estudios de Género (PUEG, University Program for Gender Studies) at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM).
She also evaluated the adsorption of organic dyes upon thiazine and barium nitrate crystals, as well as upon lead and strontium.
Halberstam was the associate professor in the Department of Literature at the University of California at San Diego before working at USC.
In 1998, while doing his PhD at UC Berkeley, Rofes wrote Dry Bones Breathe: Gay Men Creating Post-AIDS Identities and Cultures, in which he argued that the AIDS crisis had passed and gay men needed to free themselves from the sense of emergency and victimhood.
Jennings was a founding member of the advisory board for You Can Play, a campaign dedicated to fighting homophobia in sports.
This will be not just the greatest revolution in history, but the greatest revolution in biology since the appearance of life on earth.
In August 1860, Anneke and Booth moved to Zürich, where they lived with Fritz until he sailed back to the United States to fight in the American Civil War in 1861.
The organization also works to educate young people, educators, and parents on important issues such as HIV/AIDS, STDs, teenage pregnancy prevention, school dropout, depression, and substance abuse.
Defert met Foucault while he was a philosophy student at the University of Clermont-Ferrand in France and their relationship lasted from 1963 until Foucault's death in 1984.
Davis is the former executive director and former director of professional sports outreach for the You Can Play project, an advocacy organization working to eradicate homophobia in professional sports.
Martin was a member of the Governor's Task Force on Teenage Suicide, Child Welfare League of America, The New York City Task Force on AIDS, and the NYC Board of Education Multicultural Advisory Committee.
He has also received a Kentucky Literary Award, two Lambda Literary Awards for best creative nonfiction, as well as the American Library Association's Stonewall Book Award for best gay/lesbian nonfiction.
Her grandparents were immigrants and "intensely" patriotic and believed the United States to be a land of opportunity.
Martin died on August 15, 1991, in his home in New York City of AIDS related complications at the age of 57.
Works Sultan und Prinz (1882) Der Präsident vom Zitherclub (1883–84) Percy Bysshe Shelley (1884) Drei englische Dichterinnen (Three English Writers, 1885) Moderne Versuche eines Religionsersatzes (1886) Wie ist Verantwortung und Zurechnung ohne Annahme der Willensfreiheit möglich?
In 1885 she published a book on Three English Writers, Joanna Baillie, Elizabeth Barrett Browning and George Eliot.
The meeting marked the first time openly gay and lesbian leaders were welcomed at the White House and the first official discussion of gay and lesbian rights in the White House.
In 2018 she published the book Las geometrías y otras revoluciones (Geometry and other revolutions), which describes the history of the field of geometry.
Building on the figure of the feminist killjoy, Sara Ahmed presents an analysis of literature, film, and distinguished feminist works while weaving alongside it her lived experience as a queer feminist scholar-activist of colour.
It caught the attention of Time, where it was described as "porn for hardcore science, tech and enviro freaks".
In their retirement, they operated an educational consultation service from the farm called Full Circle.
The coalescent argumentation model aligns with the Harvard Business School's principled negotiation model and cooperative arguing models similar to those proposed by Josina M.
Whatever may have been the reaction to his findings—and to the unscrupulous use of some of them—the fact remains that he was first, last, and always a scientist.
Early academic career A professor of sociology, Daniel Defert was assistant (1969–1970), maître-assistant (1971–1985), then maître de conférence (from 1985) at the Centre Universitaire of Vincennes, which became in 1972 Université Paris VIII Vincennes.
Education Baldur holds a PhD (1999) and MA (1994) in Political Science from the University of Essex in England.
Although Harari's books have received considerable commercial success since the publication of Sapiens, his work has been more negatively received in academic circles.
In July 2013, Sasser, who had also been HIV positive for 25 years, was diagnosed with mesothelioma, a rare cancer of the lungs.
Ludwig Renn (born Arnold Friedrich Vieth von Golßenau; 22 April 1889 – 21 July 1979) was a German author.
Personal life Her family moved with her to Los Angeles where, with her mother's encouragement, Lillian took acting classes.
Executed individuals Belgium France Germany After the Nazi takeover in 1933, the persecution of homosexuals in Germany became a priority of the Nazi police state.
"It's not that they were being illogical; it was that they weren't using just logic when they argued.
"A Mother Should Not Have to Adopt Her Own Child: Parentage Laws for Children of Lesbian Couples in the Twenty-First Century".
Faderman has been referred to as "the mother of lesbian history" for her groundbreaking research and writings on lesbian culture, literature, and history.
Spiritual intolerance, political inquisitions, and declining legal security, and all this in the name of an alleged 'state of emergency'.
They were together since 1975, lived together in Manhattan's Upper East Side, and were buried next to each other in Brooklyn at the Green-Wood Cemetery.
She worked on some of the first studies of anomalous dispersion, studying nature of the colorations of both natural and synthetic transparent crystals.
Damien Martin (December 2, 1933 – August 15, 1991) was one of the founders of the Hetrick-Martin Institute (HMI), originally known as the Institute for the Protection of Lesbian and Gay Youth (IPLGY).
Project 10's main goal is to establish voluntary, confidential, peer support groups led by trained facilitators.
Most of these men served time in regular prisons, and between 5,000 and 6,000 were imprisoned in concentration camps.
Television In 2015 Davis starred in the documentary F(l)ag Football about the National Gay Flag Football League.
AIDS research and activism After the death of his partner Michel Foucault from complications related to AIDS, Defert founded AIDES, the first AIDS awareness organization in France.
(In French) Stefano Bolognini & Giovanni Dall'Orto, List of executions for sodomy in Italy (1293-1782) (in Italian), "WikiPink".
This intersects with her study of queerness in "Happy Objects", where she describes the experience of being a young queer person at a family dinner table being overlooked by ancestral photos of heterosexual nuclear families.
In 2019 she was included in a list of the 50 most influential LGBT people in Spain by newspaper El Mundo.
SciShow Tangents, also launched in 2018, is described as "a lightly competitive knowledge showcase".
External links Materials about Néstor Osvaldo Perlongher in the Néstor Perlongher Letters to Martha "Beba" Eguía and Ricardo Piglia held by Princeton University Library Special Collections
However, such terms were also used to describe bestiality, non-consensual acts, and crimes against minors.
In the long run, it is probable that the values of his contribution to contemporary thought will lie much less in what he found out than in the method he used and his way of applying it.
It pointed out that the Yahav Harari Group, built by his partner Yahav, was a "booming product cosmos" selling comics and children's books, and soon films and documentaries.
The allegations were proven to be false when it was shown the student was above the age of consent and no sex had occurred.
Baldur has taught on small states at several universities and was the ‘Class of 1955’ Visiting Professor of International Studies at Williams College (MA, USA) in 2013 and Leverhulme Visiting Professor at the Queen Mary University of London in 2017.
White then quickly walked to his former office, reloading his police-issue revolver with hollow-point bullets along the way, and intercepted Milk, asking him to step inside for a moment.
After the producers allowed this, Sasser and Zamora fell in love, and their relationship became a focal point of the season.
Jennings moved GLSTN to New York to accompany his studying, and decided to make the organization national in scope.
Co-written with Julie Shapiro and in 2004, printed in the Seattle Journal for Social Justice Honors and awards The Minority Corporate Counsel Association (MCCA) named an annual award in her honor to recognize either an individual or organization for advancing LGBT attorneys.
ISBN 9781316480267 Sherlock, Peter (2017) "The Revolution of Memory: Monuments at Westminster Abbey".
In 2019, he appeared as himself in a guest role in "Adam Ruins a Sitcom", a third-season episode of the series Adam Ruins Everything, in which he sought to raise awareness of toxic masculinity.
In June 2020, Sasser's name was added to the names of American "pioneers, trailblazers, and heroes" on the National LGBTQ Wall of Honor within the Stonewall National Monument (SNM) in New York City's Stonewall Inn, the first U.S.
Bibliography Books The Family Jewels: A Guide to Male Genital Play and Torment, Greenery Press, 2001.
Riordan was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2023 New Year Honours for services to higher education.
Análisis comparativo de legislación local e internacional relativa a la mujer y a la niñez: Distrito Federal [Comparative Analysis of Local and International Legislation Related to Women and Children: Federal District] (in Spanish).
Subsequently, Verrall was commissioned by the ministry to provide an independent audit of its contact tracing program.
In 1980, Haberman co-produced the first Cedar Springs Carnival, held during Gay Pride Week in Dallas.
Paula Louise Ettelbrick (October 2, 1955 Stuttgart, Germany – October 7, 2011 Manhattan) was a lawyer, based in New York City.
The work collected historical accounts of women in various service branches from countries as far apart as Canada and Yugoslavia over a period of five hundred years.
After the war, homosexuals were initially not counted as victims of Nazism because homosexuality continued to be illegal in Nazi Germany's successor states.
in United States History at the University of California, Berkeley in 1992; the doctoral thesis she presented was Making Mormonism: A Critical and Historical Analysis of Cultural Formation.
She draws upon her experiences as a woman of color in academia and the works of others, including Chandra Talpade Mohanty, M.
Her publications include texts on media economics, communication, and cyberpolitics; in 2010, she wrote about her experience with burn-out syndrome.
Activism Logares is notable for her social engagement, particularly her participation in the struggle for the LGBT community's rights and inclusion in science.
In 1997, Newsweek magazine named Jennings to its "Century Club" of people likely to make a difference in the 21st century.
In June 2020, Verrall was invited by the World Health Organization to share her audit report as an example of best practice.
Cohen has won several Israeli and international tournaments, and was the first player to represent Israel in the World Championships (1991), which he has done several times since.
After studying philosophy, archeology, German literature, Orientalism and modern languages, she became the first Austrian woman and the second after Stefania Wolicka to obtain a doctorate in philosophy, with a dissertation on Byron's Don Juan.
Joseph Friedrich Abert (11 June 1879 – 25 October 1959, Würzburg) was a German historian and archivist.
Milk had remained friendly with Campbell, who had entered the avant-garde art scene in Greenwich Village, but Milk did not understand why Campbell's despondency caused him to consider committing suicide.
Lillian was her mother's third pregnancy; her mother (unmarried) aborted the first two pregnancies at Lillian's biological father's request, but insisted on bearing and raising the third.
Reflecting in the incident, he said: "There are organizations, for example, that exclude transsexuals from membership.
Poet Adrienne Rich noted: Whatever her theme or mode, June Jordan continually delineates the conditions of survival—of the body, and mind, and the heart.
She continued teaching first chemistry, then courses on atomic matter, radioactivity and pedagogy until 1919 at Second University.
national monument dedicated to LGBTQ rights and history, while The Wall's unveiling was timed to take place during the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots.
Example works in this mode include Mirha-Soleil Ross' Yapping Out Loud, Ryka Aoki's "To the New World", and the multi-artist Fully Functional Cabaret.
She helped found the feminist reviews Der heilige Kampf (The Holy Struggle) and Der Federuf (The Call to Feud).
Education Polikoff completed a Bachelor of Arts in English from the University of Pennsylvania in 1972.
Joseph Friedrich Abert lived together with Albrecht Becker (1906-2002) a production designer, photographer, and actor.
This move was condemned by Professor Tom Bartlett, who called the pay deduction "ethically questionable" in his letter of resignation from his honorary professorship at the university, addressed to Riordan himself.
Due to this, sources discussing and listing capital offences for homosexuality, including the table below, may inadvertently include men executed for such offences.
Þriðja bindi ævisögu Halldórs Kiljans Laxness (Laxness, third volume of a biography of Halldór Kiljan Laxness).
He served as Dean of the United Faculty of Theology from 2008 to 2012 and was appointed as the inaugural Vice-Chancellor of the University of Divinity in 2012.
André Baudry was prosecuted in 1955 for "outrage aux bonnes mœurs" (outrage against good morals), convicted, and fined 400,000 francs.
The following year, Vedeneyva's son, Yevgeny, who was a student at the Moscow Higher Technical School, was arrested and charged as an enemy of the state for participating in scouting, a banned activity.
Biography 1972–1988: Early life Pedro Zamora was born in Diezmero, San Miguel del Padrón, on the outskirts of Havana, Cuba, to Héctor Zamora, a food-warehouse worker, and Zoraida Díaz, a housewife.
You shouldn't leave your audience on a down." In the wake of his loss, Milk, realizing that the Toklas Club would never support him politically, co-founded the San Francisco Gay Democratic Club.
Other family members deferred to Foucault's wishes, but without government recognition, Defert, like other surviving partners in a similar position, was still subject to much higher inheritance taxes than he would have been as a recognized family member.
He named, as precedents, Luxembourg and Ireland – two other small European countries— and small islands, such as the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the Caymans.
Several weeks before the announcement, Netanyahu saw Cohen being interviewed on the Israeli news channel i24 about Amir Ohana becoming the first gay Israeli cabinet minister and was impressed with Cohen's ability to present the Likud worldview.
The only Jewish child in her elementary school, she writes that she was punished for refusing to recite the Lord's Prayer.
In 2014, Cohen organized the Likud party's first international convention of LGBT activists in conservative parties.
Exile and return to Germany After the defeat of the Spanish Republicans, Renn escaped to France and then travelled into exile to Mexico, where he remained from 1939 to 1947 and served as president of the Free Germany movement (Freies Deutschland).
After becoming president of the New York Gay Activists Alliance, he decided it was not wide enough in its coverage.
Ahmed gives the historical idea on the association of use with life and strength in the 19th century and how utilitarianism helped shape individuals through useful ends.
The book was nominated for the Lambda Literary Award in Lesbian Studies in 1998 and awarded the Judy Grahn Award for Lesbian Nonfiction in 1999.
Jennings holds degrees from Harvard University, Columbia University's Teachers College, and the Stern School of Business at New York University.
She received her Juris Doctor degree from Wayne State University in 1984 and her undergraduate degree from Northern Illinois University in 1978.
See also Arcadie (French homophile review) References Further reading Archival resources Arcadie Records, 1956-1979 (.2 cubic feet) are housed at Cornell University Library Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections
Jordan composed three guideline points that embodied the program, which was published with a set of her students' writings in 1995, entitled June Jordan's Poetry for the People: A Revolutionary Blueprint.
Halberstam uses contemporary pop culture examples, such as SpongeBob SquarePants, Bridesmaids, and Dory from Finding Nemo to explore what he calls the tenets of Gaga Feminism.
The art of transition: Latin American culture and neoliberal crisis, Francine Masiello, Duke University Press, 2001, ISBN 978-0-8223-2818-6.
He worked and camped with the local YMCA throughout his early years, and enjoyed these activities to such an extent that he intended to work for the YMCA after completing his education.
Ireland Italy Malta Netherlands Poland Portugal Spain Sweden Switzerland United Kingdom The details of the accusation are often not given in contemporary sources, with euphemisms such as "unnatural offence" used.
Houses that the Manns lived in Last years With the start of the Cold War, he was increasingly frustrated by rising McCarthyism.
In 2015, under his purview as Vice-Chancellor, Riordan announced that Cardiff University would launch five new flagship research centres, each focusing on a world issue.
She completed both her licentiate (1977) and master's degree (1981) with distinction, earning the Medalla Gabino Barreda for her academic merit.
In May 1996, he took some time out to concentrate on writing and his training work and co-founded Chrysalis, a training collective with his close friend and colleague, Sue Sanders.
Partner to the late Michel Foucault, Defert co-founded France's first AIDS advocacy group, AIDES, following Foucault's death from complications related to the disease.
Rubin points out that we have learned to value other cultures as unique without seeing them as inferior, and we need to adopt a similar understanding of different sexual cultures as well.
As Associate Minister of Health, Verrall unveiled the Government's new Smokefree 2025 plan in early December 2021.
In a 1994 essay, Umberto Eco suggests that the media discuss "Whether reading Thomas Mann gives one erections" as an alternative to "Whether Joyce is boring".
As a person of partial Jewish ancestry (a Mischling in Nazi terminology), Beck was not deported with other German Jews.
Women are born biologically female, but only become gendered when the distinction between male giver and female gift is made within this exchange.
One of his last projects was co-creating "Gay Men's Health Leadership Academies" to combat what he saw as a "pathology-focused understanding of gay men" in safe-sex education.
Johanna ("Fanny") left home, while Anneke, her husband, her son Percy, and her daughter Hertha returned to Milwaukee in 1858.
(Doctoral dissertation.) "Of catamites and kings: Reflections on butch, gender, and boundaries", in Joan Nestle (Ed).
Legacy Humboldt State established the Eric Rofes Center after his death as a new program in honor of his legacy and to continue his work in queer-feminist activism.
national monument dedicated to LGBTQ rights and history, and the wall's unveiling was timed to take place during the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots.
From 1911 Renn served as an officer in a prestigious Saxon Guards Regiment, where he served under his friend Prince Friedrich August.
Akerman acknowledged that her mother was at the center of her work and admitted to feeling directionless after her death.
The first is the common identity, which is the one that has been imposed on us by a long history of societal standards, controlling images, pressure, a variety of stereotypes, and stratification.
She began modeling as a teenager, discovered the gay bar scene, and eventually met her first girlfriend.
Advocacy Ross was one of the founding members and later co-chair of the Chicago chapter of GLSTN (Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Teachers’ Network) which later became GLSEN.
She allowed the class ten to fifteen minutes to get used to her femme alter ego, before proceeding with her lecture.
Halberstam has said that he feels no pressure to marry, viewing marriage as a patriarchal institution that should not be a prerequisite for obtaining health care and deeming children "legitimate".
Older generations would only be permitted to buy tobacco products with very low-levels of nicotine while fewer shops will be allowed to sell tobacco products.
He decided to enroll in culinary school, as he had always been fond of cooking, and wanted to open his own restaurant.
As part of the plan, the Government introduced legislation banning anyone under the age of 14 from legally purchasing tobacco for the rest of their lives.
Between 2013 and 2014 he wrote a column providing religious perspectives on contemporary issues called Theophilus for The Conversation.
Similarly, Akerman's visual language resists easy categorization and summarization: she creates narrative through filmic syntax instead of plot development.
From 2004 to 2008 Sherlock was an Australia Research Council Postdoctoral Fellow in the School of Historical and Philosophical Studies at the University of Melbourne.
Here, Renn was amongst the first to depict the harsh reality of life on the Western Front for the ordinary soldier.
As of February 2019, Polikoff is a professor emerita at American University Washington College of Law.
Early life and education Debussy grew up in a military family in Columbus, Georgia, near Fort Benning.
Akerman's first short film, Saute ma ville (1968), premiered at the International Short Film Festival Oberhausen in 1971.
In 1927 he undertook further studies in archaeology, art history and Chinese history in Vienna, returning to Germany in the same year to give lectures to workers on the history of China and Russia at the Volkshochschule Zwickau.
The Carnival coincided with the Dallas Gay Pride Parade, an event organized by a committee of Oak Lawn merchants and the first in Dallas since 1972.
In 1977, the National Gay Task Force (now the National LGBTQ Task Force) successfully initiated the first-ever meeting between the White House and more than a dozen gay and lesbian leaders.
She participated in many GLSEN Youth Leadership Summits, their Midwest Conference on Ending Homophobia in Schools.
From 2001 to 2005, Meckel served as the State Secretary at the department of the Premier of the German State of North Rhine-Westphalia and government spokeswoman, and later the State Secretary for Europe, International Affairs and Media.
The producers had informed the other six castmates that one person was HIV-positive, but did not specify whom.
He produces the YouTube channel Vlogbrothers with his older brother, author John Green, and hosts the educational YouTube channels Crash Course and SciShow.
The following year, she returned to Wisconsin and began working in the Vista Program at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.
She produced the Lesbian Information Secretariat Newsletter for the International Lesbian Information Service from 1981 to 1983 and in the 1990s, began to create on-line platforms for lesbians to network.
He is a member of parliament in the National Assembly of Hungary (Országgyűlés) since 2 December 2019.
In 1999, Haberman and Bill Schmeling received the Steve Maidhof Award for National or International Work from the National Leather Association International.
His father was accepting of Zamora's homosexuality, but concerned about homophobia and its potential dangers.
suggesting that Iceland could become an international financial centre offering low corporate taxes and a stable political environment.
As a member of the international jury for the Development Gateway Foundation of the World Bank, Meckel was instrumental in designing the Development Gateway Award (Petersberg Prize).
He transferred to Weber State University of Ogden, Utah in 1997 and played three seasons on the Weber State Wildcats football team.
He wrote about the Heuser experience in his diary on 6 May 1934: "In comparison, the early experiences with Armin Martens and Williram Timpe recede far into the childlike, and that with Klaus Heuser was a late happiness with the character of life-relevant fulfillment ...
Incompatibility is not solely influenced by genetics, however, and can be affected by environmental factors such as temperature.
See also Chiral life concept – of artificially synthesizing a chiral-mirror version of life CIP system Stereochemistry Pfeiffer effect Unsolved problems in chemistry References Further reading External links Observations Support Homochirality Theory.
Critics Russian paleontologist Stanislav Drobyshevsky and science journalist Sergey Sokolov published very detailed and devastated critics on the Saveljev´s book "Возникновение мозга человека" (Human brain genesis).
Other scientists are critical of the new field, saying it is not worthy to stand as a field of its own.
It is also possible that Ardipithecus and pre-Australopithecus were random offshoots of the hominin line.
Hypothesis It has been proposed that the early Earth hosted multiple origins of life, some of which produced chemical variations on life as we know it.
This prediction is supported in a variety of animals, with reviews revealing that male assistance (such as food or protection), is provided to certain mammals and communally breeding birds in exchange for mating outside the conceptive period.
The plant species' geographic range expansion rates are compared to the actualistic rates of seed dispersal using mathematical models, and are graphically visualized using dispersal kernels.
According to French paleoprimatologist Jean-Renaud Boisserie, the hands of Ardipithecus would have been dextrous enough to handle basic tools, though it has not been associated with any tools.
Notes References Joshua Barbach and Craig Byron, "Cultural Biases in Fossil Record" (impact of Pithecometra), 2005, ArchaeologyInfo.com webpage: ArchaeologyInfo-3.
Some participants objected to statements that appeared to present the theory of evolution as an absolute dogma, however, rather than as a hypothesis that so far has performed very well, and both sides quoted Popper in support of their positions.
Elephantfish (Mormyridae) from Africa have tuberous electroreceptors known as Knollenorgans and Mormyromasts in their skin.
In modern biology, enzymatic activity is what imposes homochirality on these metabolites and others, including hormones, toxins, fragrances and food flavors.
As in the Mormyridae, the generated electric field enables them to discriminate accurately between capacitative and resistive objects.
When the snake is foraging, it waits coiled up with its tail elevated and visible, wiggling around in a way that mimics a smaller animal and captures the attention of its prey.
She also secured Science Foundation Ireland funding of over 200,000 euro for a study of the population dynamics and conservation status of a small bat, and a small grant for work around ecology and evolution with reference to bats.
Structure According to the researchers' mass spectrometry, hemolithin is largely composed of glycine and hydroxyglycine amino acids.
For example, food can be hidden and spread across an enclosure making the animal actively search for it.
Overview In an article in Science in 2020, researchers Garcia-Pelegrin, Schnell, Wilkins, and Clayton made the case for using magic in the study of animal cognition.
For example, one genome wide association study conducted on 517 rice landraces revealed 80 loci associated with several categories of agronomic performance, such as grain weight, amylose content, and drought tolerance.
John Lund, of the Wyoming Game and Fish Department, said that he had never documented surplus killings that extreme from grey wolves.
Ecosystem Theory provides a conceptual framework that helps designers and others understand the mechanisms underpinning product innovation in a tangible and visual way.
If the optimal phenotype in a given environment changes with environmental conditions, then the ability of individuals to express different traits should be advantageous and thus selected for.
In such a case, grouse may profit from not displaying, as they are more likely to encounter a "smart" predator.
CBS renewed the series for a third season in August 2016, which aired between June 29 and September 21, 2017.
Consequently, Eugene Dubois, a student of Haeckel's indoctrinated with the idea of Asian hominid origins, traveled to Java, Indonesia in 1890–1892.
To compensate for this, mice increase the total mass of mucosal cells, cells responsible for glucose transport, in the intestine.
For example, in order for a tech consultant to be effective, he or she has to take a few minutes to discuss what the situation is, how often the problem occurs, what has been tried before, etc.
Most types of music that are selected for enrichment are based on human preferences, causing anthropomorphic biases that may not translate to other animals.
Among these individual studies, one returned to Sărmanul Dionis, tracing the links between Eminescu (otherwise a textbook Junimist) and the international Romanticism of ca.
Paralogous sequences are separated by gene cloning (gene duplication): if a particular gene in the genome is copied, then the copy of the two sequences is paralogous to the original gene.
Specifically, the argument was on the factors influencing and nature of the unit of selection in the genome, with one side positing natural selection, and the other, neutral mutation.
Further reading External links Life on Earth The universal nature of biochemistry Endosymbiosis and The Origin of Eukaryotes Archived 22 June 2017 at the Wayback Machine Origins of the Eukarya.
In the introduction, he gave full credit to Spencer, writing: "I have called this principle, by which each slight variation, if useful, is preserved, by the term Natural Selection, in order to mark its relation to man's power of selection.
She has two younger brothers, Jack and Stephen, and she and her siblings grew up in Clontarf, where her father has his head office for multiple companies, and with her mother working in a school in nearby Coolock, another northern suburb of Dublin.
Shermer hypothesizes that if hominid fossils were found in the same geological strata as trilobites, it would be evidence against natural selection.
Raymond Dart, who obtained a fossil skull of an actual hominid showing human-ape affinities from South Africa was treated with disdain.
However, biological phenomenon complicate the diffusion equation by adding biotic vectors of dispersal such as blue jays and eastern grey squirrels, species which possess caching behaviors, and abiotic agents of dispersal such as high velocity wind storms.
Dobzhansky-Muller model The first major breakthrough in the genetic basis of hybrid incompatibility is the Dobzhansky-Muller model, a combination of findings by Theodosius Dobzhansky and Joseph Muller between 1937 and 1942.
Therefore, researchers have concluded that this animal has similar sexual receptivity across infertile and fertile phases.
Ecological or ethological influences Ecology can also play a role in the observed patterns—called ecological character displacement.
Furthermore, RAO displays conglomerate crystallization behavior, so homochiral RAO can be isolated from a racemic mixture provided that initial seeds are of a single enantiomer.
Mesowear analysis is insensitive to wear stage as long as the very early and very late stages are excluded.
David Lack postulated that distraction displays simply resulted from the bird's alarm at having been flushed from the nest and had no decoy purpose.
The molars developed high crowns and a hard covering for grinding the grass, which was typically covered with high-silica dust and sand.
A natural development of hemolithin may have started with glycine forming first, and then later linking with other glycine molecules into polymer chains, and later still, combining with iron and oxygen atoms.
ramidus likely preferred the closed habitats, specifically riverine areas as such water sources may have supported more canopy coverage.
Lazcano pursued his undergraduate and graduate studies focused on the study of prebiotic evolution and the emergence of life.
Books and articles Snooks has published some 40 books and monographs, including: Depression and Recovery (1974), Domesday Economy (with J.
Though Spencer's conception of organic evolution is commonly interpreted as a form of Lamarckism, Herbert Spencer is sometimes credited with inaugurating Social Darwinism.
While no members of the genus Australopithecus survive today, there are living descendants, such as the genus Homo.
History Among the pioneering zoologists, Linnaeus identified two body plans outside the vertebrates; Cuvier identified three; and Haeckel had four, as well as the Protista with eight more, for a total of twelve.
He has been professor-in-residence or visiting scientist in France, Spain, Cuba, Switzerland, Russia, and the United States.
The earliest known butterfly fossils are from the mid Eocene epoch, between 40 and 50 million years ago.
In 1949, the Ukrainian-British zoologist Hans Lissmann noticed that the African knife fish (Gymnarchus niloticus) was able to swim backwards at the same speed and with the same dexterity around obstacles as when it swam forwards, avoiding collisions.
ZRS enhances the activity of the SHH gene, which is involved in limb development, and this has been shown to cause extra toes.
Sergey Savelyev's statements and books have been repeatedly criticized by experts for a large number of factual errors and incorrect conclusions.
Other usage Usage of supercluster for geographically defined human populations instead of mtDNA strains is rarely seen.
The third season started filming in mid-January 2017, also in and around Vancouver, British Columbia.
He returned to Turkey at 1969 and worked at Hacettepe University in Ankara, and Atatürk University in Erzurum, Black Sea Technical University in Trabzon and Çukurova University in Adana.
Passive enrichment Passive enrichment provides sensory stimulation but no direct contact or control.
Anatomy The brains of most species of Australopithecus were roughly 35% of the size of a modern human brain with an endocranial volume average of 466 cc (28.4 cu in).
The method has been developed only for selenodont and trilophodont molars, but the principle is readily extendable to other crown types.
Evaluating designed products from this perspective is useful as it shows that the value of a product is not contained entirely within the product itself.
Across all cultures studied, people tried harder (i.e., held the squat longer) to help closer relatives, supporting the evolutionary prediction that people are predisposed to help kin.
The tails of juvenile snakes are typically conspicuously colored and fade to become more similar to the rest of the body with age.
For example, birds that engage in altitudinal migration might make "trial runs" lasting a few hours that would induce physiological changes that would improve their ability to function at high altitude.
This is not without problems, as gene flow from the presumably large allopatric regions could overwhelm the area when two populations overlap.
This tends to happen when the two populations have strong reproductive isolation and significant overlap in their niche.
Pierre-Yves Daoust, Andrew Boyne, Ted D’Eon, Surplus killing of Roseate Terns and Common Terns by a mink.
The overall results in Medawar's thought model demonstrated an exponential decline in the survivor curve which resulted in the population having a half life.
History and classification The type specimens are deposited in the Nanjing Institute of Geology and Palaeontology with the genus being described from a total of seven adult spiders.
Due to the tail resembling a writhing caterpillar and another worm-like insect larvae, the tail of the snake is often referred to as a vermiform.
Many but not all carnivorans are meat eaters; a few, such as the large and small cats (Felidae) are obligate carnivores whose diet requires nutrients found only in animal flesh.
It was very similar to Miohippus, but slightly larger, at around 1 metre (10 hands) tall, at the withers.
The comparative genomic analysis begins with a simple comparison of the general features of genomes such as genome size, number of genes, and chromosome number.
This term, usually applied to animals, envisages a "blueprint" encompassing aspects such as symmetry, layers, segmentation, nerve, limb, and gut disposition.
Sign stimulus The sign stimulus, also known as key stimulus or releaser, is the determining feature of a stimulus that produces a response.
White, Tim D.; WoldeGabriel, Giday; Asfaw, Berhane; Ambrose, S; Beyene, Y; Bernor, RL; Boisserie, JR; Currie, B; Gilbert, H; Haile-Selassie, Y; Hart, WK; Hlusko, LJ; Howell, FC; Kono, RT; Lehmann, T; Louchart, A; Lovejoy, CO; Renne, PR; Saegusa, H; Vrba, ES; Wesselman, H; Suwa, G (2006).
The genus name translates to "funky worm", in reference to the funk song of the same name by the Ohio Players.
People with obsessive compulsive disorder may learn to avoid using public restrooms because it produces anxiety in them (aversive stimulus).
In 1995, they made a corrigendum recommending it be split off into a separate genus, Ardipithecus; the name stems from Afar ardi "ground" or "floor".
Variable expressivity Variable expressivity refers to the phenomenon by which individuals with a shared genotype exhibit varying phenotypes.
In this way, hybrid infertility contributes in some part to speciation by ensuring that gene flow between diverging species remains limited.
Lewis and Raven postulated that species in the Genus Clarkia had a mode of speciation that resulted ...as a consequence of a rapid reorganization of the chromosomes due to the presence, at some time, of a genotype conducive to extensive chromosome breakage.
Therefore use of "supercluster" as a euphemism for "race" might be considered a neologism or, more likely, an idiosyncratic usage according to the Google test.
If one of these test tubes were to theoretically break, this would represent an individual animal dying.
Consequently, the anatomy of Funcusvermis helps to compare and contrast alternative hypotheses for lissamphibian origins.
If the other bird does not recognize the other bird's egg as foreign, it will continue on caring for it as its own by incubating it and hatching it.
History of the phrase By his own account, Herbert Spencer described a concept similar to "survival of the fittest" in his 1852 "A Theory of Population".
First, instead of initially crawling as infants on their knees, they started off learning to move around with a "bear crawl" on their feet.
Furthermore, he argued, Iorga and the others had never lived the lives of their peasant heroes, and had failed to understand the motivations of land laborers.
pawniensis Gidley, 1907 - early-mid Miocene (Arikareean to Hemingfordian) of Colorado (Pawnee Creek Formation), Wyoming, South Dakota (Rosebud Formation), Nevada, California (Vaqueros Formation) & Oregon (John Day Formation) The former species P.
The protein was purportedly found inside two CV3 meteorites, Allende and Acfer-086, by a team of scientists led by Harvard University biochemist Julie McGeoch.
After their decline due to the Cambrian-Ordovician extinction event, the niches of large carnivores were taken over by nautiloid cephalopods such as Cameroceras and later eurypterids such as Jaekelopterus during the Ordovician and Silurian periods.
In 1824 and 1825, French naturalists Quoy and Gaimard had observed that the coral organisms lived at relatively shallow depths, but the islands appeared in deep oceans.
More recent research has taken advantage of improved molecular techniques and has focused on the effects of genes and alleles in the hybrid and its parents.
Van der Woude syndrome is a condition that affects the development of the face, specifically a cleft lip, cleft palate or both (see Figure 3).
Evidence from the historical diversification of fifteen butterfly groups that show an increase in the diversification rates that follow major host shifts.
After the Carboniferous rainforest collapse, both synapsid and sauropsid amniotes quickly gained dominance as the top terrestrial animals during the subsequent Permian period.
In December 2016, Gracie Dzienny, who guest-starred in the second-season finale, was promoted to series regular for the third season.
High Country News, Zachary Smith, Wolf pack wiped out for ‘surplus killing’ Archived 2006-08-22 at the Wayback Machine.
Although the tube feet resemble suction cups in appearance, the gripping action is a function of adhesive chemicals rather than suction.
In the following months he speculated that as the land was uplifted, large areas of the ocean bed subsided.
This purely biotic theory is difficult to assess experimentally, and is not widely accepted or discussed in the scientific community.
References External links Official faculty page Video Video on Russell Gray's research (Latest Thinking)
Most importantly, Parahippus was able to stand on its middle toe, instead of walking on pads, which gave it the ability to run faster; its weight was supported by ligaments under the fetlock to the big central toe.
This finding supports the predictions of speciation by reinforcement and correlates well with a later study that found 33 studies expressing patterns of strong prezygotic isolation in sympatry.
The tube feet typically have a tip shaped like a suction pad that can create a vacuum through contraction of muscles.
Some species have evolved to exploit the fixed action patterns of other species by mimicry of their sign stimuli.
There are several primary outcomes of secondary contact: extinction of one species, fusion of the two populations back into one, reinforcement, the formation of a hybrid zone, and the formation of a new species through hybrid speciation.
After her book was published, she was contacted by owners of other animals who were using various tools in innovative ways.
Further, it is considered by some that his work offers a unique perspective that bridges empirical analysis with philosophical enquiry.
This resulted in the Ageless project, considering how bats weighing as little as 7g can live for over 40 years, possibly due to optimised telomere management.
After his study of the Ulas family, Tan went on to diagnose Uner Tan syndrome in several other families.
Systemic factors contributing to anastomotic failure include sepsis, anemia, diabetes mellitus, previous irradiation, malnutrition, steroid use, smoking, heavy alcohol consumption, obesity and certain disease conditions like Crohn's disease.
Toucans and hornbills are very similar and occupy the same ecological niche, but are not closely related.
References External links Mesowear Equilibrium in Zoo Animals Tooth wear as a tool of reconstructing diet in fossil ungulates EMD - Equus Mesowear Datenbase Morphological and trophic distinction in the dentitions of two early alcelaphine bovids from Langebaanweg (genus Damalacra)
Her research is focused on the physical cognition, play behavior, problem-solving and tool-making abilities in parrots and corvids.
See also References External links Developmental Biology 8e Online: Patterning of the Mesoderm by Activin Videos The Science of Evolution: Sean B.
In other words, natural selection does not simply state that "survivors survive" or "reproducers reproduce"; rather, it states that "survivors survive, reproduce and therefore propagate any heritable characters which have affected their survival and reproductive success".
A similar mode of origin by rapid reorganization of the chromosomes is suggested for the derivation of other species of Clarkia.
Once released from captivity, Sanielevici returned to occupied Bucharest, and, exposing himself to accusations of collaborationism, began his contribution to Lumina, a newspaper put out by Germanophile-Poporanist Constantin Stere.
In particular, frequency flaring from M dwarf stars might be enough to drive prebiotic photochemistry on terrestrial planets within their habitable zone.
Their development is closely linked to the evolution of flowering plants, since both adult butterflies and caterpillars feed on flowering plants.
Gut microbiota, in particular, Enterococcus faecalis and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, has been shown to degrade collagen at the suture site due to high colleganase activity, therefore contributing to the pathogenesis of leakage.
These different rates of evolutionary change were designated by Simpson as bradytelic (slow tempo), horotelic (medium tempo), and tachytelic (rapid tempo).
The type of predator has also been shown to be of importance, with birds tending to display most intensely to ground-dwelling carnivores and less intensely to humans and flying predators.
Epigenetic factors can include: Cis-regulatory elements, which are regions of non-coding DNA that regulate transcription of genes, such as promoters or enhancers.
Every few minutes, the light in the room the dog was occupying was turned off, while the other remained on.
Penguins in the Southern Hemisphere evolved similarly to flightless wing-propelled diving auks in the Northern Hemisphere: the Atlantic great auk and the Pacific mancallines.
Over time, the model showed that test tubes over a certain age would decline in the population as new test tubes were put in.
She has also published research on the abilities of corvids, parrots, and orangutans to create tools in order to solve problems and complete tasks.
Neuropharmacology The posterior and intermediate lobes of the pituitary are necessary for maintenance of the avoidance response once learned.
Breve historia de una hipótesis cambiante, incluido en Una revolución en la evolución (A revolution in evolution), Universitat València, 2003, ISBN 978-84-370-5494-0 Lazcano Araujo, A.
Fundamental to this theory is that manufactured product lines respond to external threats and opportunities in much the same way that species respond to threats and opportunities.
And Unlocking the Mystery of the Cosmos shows how the DST can be used to explore not only the dynamics of the universe and the laws that drive it, but also its origins and future as part of the Strategic Superverse.
In 2014, he led the experiment "Gecko-F4", the purpose of which was to study the effect of microgravity on the sexual behavior, the body of adult animals and the embryonic development of geckos Phelsuma ornata in a two-month orbital experiment on the Russian research satellite "Foton-M No.4".
Linnaeus's Vermes included effectively all other groups of animals, not only tapeworms, earthworms and leeches but molluscs, sea urchins and starfish, jellyfish, squid and cuttlefish.
The species lived around a lake in a volcanically active area and was found in fine-grained volcanic ash lacustrine (lake-bed) deposits, the ash helping to preserve the specimens.
See also References Further reading External links A Shadow Biosphere Bacteria stir debate about 'shadow biosphere' Alternate "Life" Styles: Scientists Predict The Possibility Of A Shadow Biosphere
Within primates, research has consistently found evidence of extended female sexuality in the rhesus monkey and chimpanzees.
In mainland Australia, a single fox once killed around 74 penguins over several days, eating almost nothing.
In addition, it helped to provide an understanding of chromosome evolution and genetic diseases associated with DNA rearrangements.
Funcusvermis is the oldest known gymnophionan, and has the largest known sample of fossils referred to the group.
For aerobic locomotion, most animals have a nearly constant cost of transport—moving a given distance requires the same caloric expenditure, regardless of speed.
Shifting mate preferences and behaviour across the ovarian cycle The final prediction of the male-assistance hypothesis has been extensively investigated.
Partitioning may have begun from cell-like spheroids formed by proteinoids, which are observed by heating amino acids with phosphoric acid as a catalyst.
In 2014, he became one of the two founding directors of the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena, Germany, where he has been heading the Department of Linguistic and Cultural Evolution [until it moved to Leipzig in 2020].
In 2020, he became a co-director of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig.
In the first few trials, the dog did not move until the shocks began and then it jumped over the barrier.
An alternative model exists to address the antagonism of recombination, as it can reduce the association between the alleles that involve fitness and the assortive mating alleles that do not.
He is best known for his discovery and study of the human quadrupedal condition he named the Uner Tan syndrome.
The fossils display fused chelicerae, distinctly short legs, and are ecribellate, that is, without the silk spinning organ called a cribellum.
The homeobox genes are remarkably conserved between species as diverse as the fruit fly and humans, the basic segmented pattern of the worm or fruit fly being the origin of the segmented spine in humans.
Apices were characterized as sharp, rounded, or blunt, and the valleys between them either high or low.
In genetics, expressivity is the degree to which a phenotype is expressed by individuals having a particular genotype.
The production of unfit hybrids is effectively the same as a heterozygote disadvantage; whereby a deviation from genetic equilibrium causes the loss of the unfit allele.
He also holds adjunct positions in the School of Psychology at the University of Auckland and the Department of Philosophy at the Australian National University.
In conjunction with this, the effects of natural selection decrease as age increases, so that later individual performance is ignored by selection forces.
External links Examples of usage to describe haplogroups, not races: [2] The sub-Saharan African mtDNAs belong largely to an mtDNA supercluster L [3] More than 90% of European mtDNAs belong to nine haplogroups (Fig.
AMY2B (Alpha-Amylase 2B) is a gene that codes a protein that assists with the first step in the digestion of dietary starch and glycogen.
Small femora (thigh bones) indicate that legs were still present in Funcusvermis, despite its modern relatives being completely legless.
This form of enrichment forms active behaviors that can also help with not only a captive animal's mental health, but the animal's physical health.
Based on a phylogenetic analysis, Dacks and Roger proposed that facultative sex was present in the common ancestor of all eukaryotes.
In one experiment, people who were told to imagine how a distressed person felt were more likely to help, even when they could easily leave the situation without anyone knowing.
[4] The main determinants of this PC analysis are therefore the HV supercluster members, haplogroups H, HV, and pre-HV.
Fixed action patterns are said to be produced by the innate releasing mechanism, a "hard-wired" neural network, in response to a sign/key stimulus or releaser.
Great Myths to Die For shows how the metaphysical interventionists are undermining the survival of human civilization.
Reid's Paradox is named after Clement Reid, a paleobotanist, who made the principle observations from the paleobotanical record in Europe in 1899.
These are based on the premises that captive animals should perform behaviors in a similar way to those in the ethogram of their ancestral species, animals should be allowed to perform the activities or interactions they prefer, i.e.
For example, the secondary contact between Homo sapiens and Neanderthals, as well as the Denisovans, left traces of their genes in modern human.
Limitations and Future Research Most of these experiments were done in labs with college students, mostly from Western countries.
These represent the major taxa of mammals (e.g., beaver, otter, polar bear), birds (e.g., penguins, ducks), reptiles (e.g., anaconda, bog turtle, marine iguana) and amphibians (e.g., salamanders, frogs, newts).
The free-swimming sea slug Phylliroe is notable for being a pelagic hunter that resembles a fish in body plan and locomotion, with functional convergences.
Evolutionary advantages Most behaviors which are both fixed action patterns and occur in more complex animals, are usually essential to the animal's fitness, or in which speed (i.e.
Some argue that these alternative life forms could have become extinct, either by being out-competed by other forms of life, or they might have become one with the present day life via mechanisms like lateral gene transfer.
Exobiologist and chemist Jeffrey Bada expressed concerns about the possible protein discovery commenting, "The main problem is the occurrence of hydroxyglycine, which, to my knowledge, has never before been reported in meteorites or in prebiotic experiments.
Since 2011, she has been managing the Goffin Lab of Comparative Cognition at the Messerli Research Institute of the University of Veterinary Medicine Vienna in Austria, where she has extensively studied the intelligence of the Tanimbar corella, also known as Goffin's cockatoo.
This specimen was the combination of ape and human features the scientific community had been seeking in order to argue human/ape affinities.
At the same time he was privately speculating intensively about transmutation of species, and taking on other projects.
However, in his Major Features of Evolution (1953) Simpson wrote that this mechanism was still controversial: "whether prospective adaptation as prelude to quantum evolution arises adaptively or inadaptively.
However, if hybridization is so common that the resulting population received significant amount of genetic contribution from both populations, the result should be considered a fusion.
Ruminant forestomaches came about independently in: hoatzin bird and tree sloths of the Amazon, ruminant artiodactyls (deer, cattle), colobus monkeys of the Old World and some Macropodidae.
Studies focused primarily on model plants have found that the viability of hybrids can be dependent on environmental influence.
ramidus at Aramis are spiral-horned antelope and colobine monkeys (namely Kuseracolobus and Pliopapio).
History and usage of the term The term was first used in this context by Tim Williams in 2013 in a paper he wrote with Marianella Chamorro-Koc.
Antonio Eusebio Lazcano Araujo Reyes (born 1950) is a Mexican biology researcher and professor of the School of Sciences at the National Autonomous University of Mexico in Mexico City.
The current restricted range of the family may be due to either the severe cooling at the Eocene–Oligocene transition or the Pliocene–Pleistocene ice age.
It supports the consensus hypothesis for lissamphibian evolution, with Lissamphibia as a monophyletic group with a single common ancestor among the dissorophoids.
The thickening of enamel in australopiths may have been a response to eating more ground-bound foods such as tubers, nuts, and cereal grains with gritty dirt and other small particulates which would wear away enamel.
Due to the lack of exterior genitalia on females, it is very difficult to identify possible Eoplectreurys females from among the number of Haplogynae spiders found in the Daohugou formation.
cognatus Leidy, 1858 (type species) - mid-Miocene (Hemingfordian to Barstovian) of Nebraska (Loup Fork Formation) & South Dakota (Batesland Formation), US P.
In support of this hypothesis was the finding that all-male, all-female, and mixed foraging groups responded equally to the display, which would not be expected if it were indeed mimicking a sexual display.
Later, Scottish paleontologist Robert Broom and Dart set out to search for more early hominin specimens, and several more A.
As duplex DNA became the predominant form of the genetic material, the mechanism of genetic recovery evolved into the more complex process of meiotic recombination, found today in most species.
Caudal luring is a form of aggressive mimicry characterized by the waving or wriggling of the predator's tail to attract prey.
Furthermore, animals may use energetically expensive methods of locomotion when environmental conditions (such as being within a burrow) preclude other modes.
Product ecosystem theory is an emerging theory that describes how the design of manufactured products evolves over time and draws parallels with how species evolve within a natural ecosystem.
She founded the Laboratory of Molecular Evolution and Mammalian Phylogenetics (known as the "BatLab" even in official materials) at UCD in 2005, and the Centre for Irish Bat Research at UCD in 2008; she remains one of the four Principal Investigators of this cross-border project, and its director.
Described as "an idol within the police force", Le Cocq was killed on August 27, 1964, during a confrontation with the criminal Cara de Cavalo.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs of the USSR (MVD; Russian: Министерство внутренних дел СССР (МВД), romanized: Ministerstvo vnutrennikh del SSSR) was the interior ministry of the Soviet Union from 1946 to 1991.
Prize objects include a lipstick gun known as the "Kiss of Death", a Fialka Machine (the Russian version of the Enigma Machine), and a suicide tooth filled with poison.
NSS prisons The NSS headquarters and interrogation center in Mogadishu, referred to as Godka or "the Hole", was particularly notorious.
The Scuderie Detetive Le Cocq, the most famous Brazilian death squad, was created to avenge the death of Detective Le Cocq and named in his honor.
The museum opened in the Chelsea and Greenwich Village neighborhoods of Manhattan in New York City on January 17, 2019, and featured the world's largest collection of KGB-specific spy equipment.
However, these groups failed to carry out large-scale actions that would have escalated into civil war, as had occurred in neighboring countries.
External links Official page border service of the FSB PF See also Soviet Border Troops Chronology of Soviet secret police agencies
Nesvadba originally translated poetry from English and wrote several theatrical plays as a student in the late 1940s and early 1950s.
Established in 1954, its rights were limited by the early 1960s, with the KGB border guard, once subordinated to the Moldavian KGB, reported directly to party leaders in Moscow.
Users Soviet Union See also List of Russian weaponry NRS-2 S4M References External links Photographs
For most agencies listed here, secret policing operations were only part of their function; for instance, the KGB was both a secret police and an intelligence agency.
However, the Italian government was unable to get Contreras extradited from Chile, where he had already been incarcerated for ordering the assassination on Orlando Letelier.
Pavel Sudoplatov and Nahum Eitingon approved specialized equipment (namely, poisons) only if it had been tested on "humans", as revealed in the testimony of Mikhail Filimonov.
Like all the other departments that made up the DINA headquarters, the department was not operational, which is why it lacked operational units or brigades that depended on it.
Vanguard member Vincenzo Vinciguerra, who was already imprisoned, claimed Vanguard leader Stefano Delle Chiaie told him that Chilean ruler Augusto Pinochet directed ordered the attempted assassination.
The testimonies coincide in that the three detainees, from Buenos Aires, were taken to the La Reina barracks by "Don Jaime" (alias of Captain Germán Barriga, who committed suicide in 2005) and his agents of Dolphin Group, an elite squad that operated inside the Lautaro Brigade.
A memorial chapel was erected in 2000, which provides more information on the victims and shelter for visitors.
It was within this organization that Adolf Eichmann began working out the details for the Final Solution to the Jewish Question.
The prison was transferred to the Stiftung Ettersberg at the end of 2011 and plans were developed for the memorial centre, aiming to preserve the authenticity of the original site, but also to create a modern museum.
In Russia today, KGB functions are performed by the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR), the Federal Counterintelligence Service which later became the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB) in 1995, and the Federal Protective Service (FSO).
The latter two spent the day locked in a laboratory, experimenting with the lethality of sarin gas on mice and rabbits.
In March 1944, in response to the situation, the NKVD Operational Headquarters was set up in Rivne to combat the Ukrainian national liberation movement.
before fleeing with Donald Maclean to USSR; led to major breach in "Special Relationship"; died in Moscow Boris Bukov, head of apparatus connected to Whittaker Chambers and Alger Hiss.
External links Jiri Mucha et l'invasion de la Tchécoslovaquie, Radio Canada - an interview with Jiri Mucha, archived from the original on 2015-07-21, retrieved 2015-07-17.
Judge Kujawa suggested that these four secret agents implemented their plan to intentionally kill Father Jerzy as it existed prior to the incident, which the statement lasted for 75 minutes.
In 1944 the Red Army moving to the west reconquered the territory of Western Ukraine that was occupied by Nazi Germany and its allies in 1941.
In exile, he opposed the new regime of Pinochet, he had already been nominally open to Salvador Allende.
This is the oldest manual, and describes the use of abusive techniques, as exemplified by two references to the use of electric shock, in addition to use of threats and fear, sensory deprivation, and isolation.
In 1981, Markus Wolf made a request to AGM/S to train around three or four employees from the HVA for special duty in special forces tactics.
At least one pretext to secure additional influence for Himmler's SS and Heydrich's SD in "protecting" Hitler and securing his absolute trust in their intelligence collection abilities, involved thwarting a plot from Ernst Röhm's SA using subversive means.
The Vienna Museum published a list of artworks it had purchased from the Vugesta that had been looted from Jews.
The Directory of National Security (Spanish: Dirección de Seguridad Nacional, abbreviated as DSN) was the secret police of Venezuela from 1938 until is disestablishment in 1958.
Army signals intelligence staffer and NKVD agent handler KGB Aldrich Ames, CIA officer, started spying for USSR as walk-in to old Soviet embassy in D.C., sentenced to life Felix Bloch, U.S.
Headed by Colonel Lenton weekly meeting were held and attended by representatives for censorship, intelligence, SAP, railway police, treasury, immigration and customs.
History Following an unsuccessful assassination attempt by the Ba'ath Party on Iraq's ruler Abdul Karim Qasim in October 1959, Saddam Hussein was placed in charge of Jihaz al Khas (Special Apparatus), sometime between 1964 and 1966.
On 15 March 1953, the MGB was incorporated into the MVD, re-creating a structure similar to the NKVD, but just under a year later on 13 March 1954 the MGB's functions were again transferred to a separate state committee, the Committee for State Security (KGB).
Among other things, he won access to material on the then-new Patriot and Phoenix missiles, the enhanced version of Hawk air-to-air missile, radar instrumentation for F-15 fighter, "stealth radar" for B-1 and Stealth bombers, an experimental radar system being tested by U.S.
A situation report from Einsatzgruppe C in September 1941 noted that not all Jews were members of the Bolshevist apparatus, and suggested that the total elimination of Jewry would have a negative impact on the economy and the food supply.
The prison was opened in 1878 and held political prisoners for several different political regimes until 1989.
Even, the International Brigades had its own intelligence service run by agents of the Soviet NKVD and GRU.
In November 1981, Norway expelled a suspected KGB agent who had offered bribes to Norwegians to get them to write letters to newspapers denouncing the deployment of new NATO missiles.
The Allied landing at Normandy in June and failed German response raised the specter of doom among the upper ranks even of German field marshals.
Its armed wing, Gonobahini, led by Colonel Abu Taher and Hasanul Haq Inu, began an armed campaign against the government of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in order to establish scientific socialism and a Marxist state.
Members of the women's group "Frauen für Veränderung" (Women for Change) went to the building and demanded to be let in.
Established in 1851 in response to the Revolutions of 1848, the organization served as an information exchange among the secret police forces of a number of German-speaking countries.
The KGB Espionage Museum was a museum dedicated to the unbiased presentation of historical and contemporary KGB espionage equipment and tradecraft.
Successor In January 2013, the new Federal Government of Somalia established the National Intelligence and Security Agency (NISA) in place of the defunct NSS.
Commanders (in chief) – in the meaning of chief, commander, commanding general, supreme commander, or manager, etc.
To reach a wide audience, advertisements were broadcast on national and local radio and television stations, as well as published in national and local newspapers.
For the next seven years, from 1939 to 1946, the chief of the foreign intelligence department (then 5th Department of the GUGB/NKVD) was a very young NKVD officer and graduate of the first official intelligence school (SHON), Major of State Security Pavel Fitin.
East Galicia and Western Volyn were annexed by the USSR from Poland in October 1939, then the Soviet Union annexed Northern Bukovina and Bessarabia from the Kingdom of Romania in July 1940, due to the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact.
The von Stauffenberg bomb attempt and aftermath By the summer of 1944 unrest in the German military and diplomatic ranks was widespread.
Until May 2012, seventy-six agents had been condemned for human rights violations and sixty-seven were convicted: thirty-six from the Army, twenty-seven Carabineros, two from the Air Force, one from the Navy, and one of the PDI.
Republican Intelligence (RI) was an intelligence agency and secret police force in South Africa from 1961 to 1969.
Nazi regime When the Nazis came to power in 1933 Bautzen became a place where political prisoners, especially those with communist views, were imprisoned.
From 1951 until 1953, the Seguridad Nacional operated a prison camp on Guasina Island, a forced labour camp.
The Tokkō was composed of six departments (Special Police Work, Foreign Surveillance, Koreans in Japan, Labor Relations, Censorship, Arbitration).
The commission found that approximately 69% of arrests occurred between September 11 and December 31 of 1973, and 19% between January 1973 and August 1977.
Victims The sarin gas was first manufactured by the DINA in Santiago, and then began to be made in Colonia Dignidad, with its logistical support.
This activity aimed to control and assess the "life domain" or Lebensgebiet of the German population.
The Federation of Conservative Students (FCS) alleged Soviet funding of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND).
After the war, the French military put dozens of Neue Bremm personnel, including the commandant, Fritz Schmoll, on trial for war crimes.
In 1951 he was arrested by the country's Communist government for alleged espionage, and following the demands of the state prosecutor for the death penalty, he was ultimately sentenced to hard labor in the Jáchymov uranium mines.
The main goals of the SIM were to combat the Nationalists' intelligence service, the SIPM (Servicio de Información y Policía Militar), to neutralize the Fifth Column and to restrict the activity of the "uncontrollables".
Approximately 20,000 men and women passed through Neue Bremm, including Jews from occupied Eastern Europe as well as Frenchmen, Belgians, Britons and Italians.
In 1974, a year before the Leighton assassination attempt, General Prats, another Chilean exile, was murdered in the capital of Argentina, Buenos Aires.
Today, modern Moldovan intelligence services are mostly based on the structure of the KGB, specifically its 5th Division.
In the late 1920s and 1930s, the Tokkō launched a sustained campaign to destroy the Japanese Communist Party with several waves of mass arrests of known members, sympathizers and suspected sympathizers (March 15 incident).
The MSW was responsible for administrative duties, and eventually controlled the Internal Security Corps, militia, border troops, prison guards and the Volunteer Reserve Citizen Militia.
Nevertheless, the SIM had an unenviable reputation among both the Spanish Republican Armed Forces and the Spanish people.
Pointing out the single-celling without beds, an execution chamber marked as a kitchen on the floor plan.
Codenamed Jihaz al-Haneen (Instrument of Yearning), the organisation concentrated on security and intelligence work.
In 2007, investigations were conducted to determine whether the Red Army Faction (RAF) had connections to the AGM/S at the time of the 1989 murder of Alfred Herrhausen.
The Okhrana was abolished by the Provisional government after the first revolution of 1917, and the first secret police after the October Revolution, created by Vladimir Lenin's decree on December 20, 1917, was called "Cheka" (ЧК).
This is a partial list of Somali and Horn of Africa politicians who had known or alleged ties to the NSS: Abdiqasim Salad Hassan TNG President of Somalia (2001–2004); as interior minister under Siad Barre, was head of the NSS.
The SS-Hauptsturmführer and Kriminalkommisar Rudolf Kerner was in charge of the building at Vesterveien 4, from then on known as Arkivet, one of the most notorious Gestapo stations in Norway, feared by the Norwegian resistance fighters.
The victims included some members of parliament and many of the murders were resulted of intra-party conflicts within the Awami League.
The last director of Directorate 9 was Major General Abdul Hameed Khalaf al-Bayati, with Brigadier General Hussain Abdul Khaliq ad-Douri, from Dour as his Assistant Director.
Chrostowski being hospitalized For three days, Chrostowski was held at an Interior Ministry hospital, and he was hospitalized for severe bruising and other injuries sustained during the escape.
In the provincial delegations, the equivalents of departments were divisions consisting of several sections, while the county delegations were divided into departments (sections).
Amir Khattab, who was poisoned by a "a fast-acting nerve agent, possibly sarin or a derivative" transferred on a letter delivered by an FSB-recruited courier.
Whitewashing theft The legal-looking transactions at the prestigious Dorotheum were used to whitewash the Nazi-looting of the objects sold.
Rokuhara Tandai (六波羅探題) was the post of the chiefs of the Kamakura shogunate in imperial capital Kyoto whose agency, the Rokuhara (六波羅), kept responsibility for security in Kinai and judicial affairs on western Japan, and negotiated with the imperial court.
Only when Nazi officers, art dealers and other favorites showed no interest were the goods sold to museums, dealers and private individuals via public auctions.
Before the end of the year, these forces were joined in cooperation with those of Bavaria, Baden and Württemberg and the Police Union of German States was informally created.
According to figures from Stiftelsen Arkivet were about 3,500 Norwegians arrested by the Gestapo and detained for several days in Arkivet.
Abolishment The Tokkō was abolished in October 1945 by the Allied Occupation authorities under the Removal of Restrictions on Political, Civil, and Religious Liberties.
Under directions from Heydrich, SD operative Alfred Naujocks was re-activated to engage in sabotage activities designed to incite a response from the Slovaks and the Czechs, a mission that ultimately failed.
Expansion After the passage of the Peace Preservation Law of 1925, the power of the Tokkō was expanded tremendously, and it expanded to include branches in every Japanese prefecture, major city, and overseas locations with a large Japanese population (including Shanghai, London and Berlin).
His stories typically revolved around such issues as human weakness and divided personalities, with a tendency toward dark humor, irony, and satire, as in "Vampires, Ltd.", in which a car runs on blood.
The Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh on 17 April 1975, declared "Year Zero," and began the forced evacuation of all urban centers.
The Straflager camps held the same pains as the other Nazi concentration camps in German-occupied Europe but with corporal punishment compacted into just days.
On 30 April 1991, President Lee Teng-hui declared the termination of the Period of Communist Rebellion and Taiwan Garrison Command again lost its other lawful justification.
In 1961, he was head of Department-72 (nuclear weapons and nuclear ammunition development for the Soviet Navy and the USSR Strategic Missile Forces).
Josef Nesvadba (19 June 1926 – 26 April 2005) was a Czech writer, best known in the English-speaking world for his science fiction short stories, many of which have appeared in English translation.
His second wife was Geraldine Thomson-Mucha (1917–2012), a Scottish born composer who lived in Prague until her death on 12 October 2012.
History The history of the prison may be divided into four broad phases: court prison prison under Nazi regime prison during communist period present day museum Court prison The building was built in 1906.
Had the coup succeeded, Hitler was to have been shot "resisting arrest." With a successful annexation of the Sudetenland Hitler instead rose to his highest esteem yet; under the circumstances, no coup could possibly win the support of the German military, let alone the German people.
Ex-UGCC priest Havryil Kostelnyk (who later died under dubious circumstances) was forced or convinced to preside over this Lviv Sobor of 1946, probably due to blackmailing by the Soviet NKVD and other secret services.
Division W (Correspondence Investigation): Replaced the W section of KdsBP in 1956 Investigation Division: Replaced the VII (7th) KdsBP Division in 1956.
Eicke drew up regulations for guards and for prisoners and set up five departments to oversee the camp.
Most of the conspirators were put on trial in the Volksgerichtshof ('People's Court') between August 1944 to February 1945.
Still, the Schwarz Kapelle maintained its efforts to overthrow Hitler and seek a negotiated peace with its enemies.
Biography Bibikin was born on 12 January 1914 in the village of Burtsevo, Bogorodsky District, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, Nizhny Novgorod Governorate to a peasant family.
The first Russian chief advisor to the MPB was Major General Ivan Serov, a well-trained Stalinist experienced with Soviet security organs.
Ziaur Rahman declared martial law, cracked down on the Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal, Abu Taher was sentenced to death and other party figures had various terms of imprisonment slapped on them.
According to a declassified 1989 report prepared for the Senate intelligence committee, the 1983 manual was developed from notes of a CIA interrogation course in Honduras.
All operational, technical-operational and accounting departments of the MBP remained in the committee.
History and formation The museum in Manhattan was founded in 2019 by Lithuanian father and daughter team Julius Urbaitis and Agne Urbaityte.
ally, truth was a casualty Archived 2007-09-30 at the Wayback Machine, Baltimore Sun, June 11, 1995, Gary Cohn and Ginger Thompson, accessed April 14, 2007.
The first floor and upwards of the building is leased to humanitarian organizations as the Red Cross and Amnesty International.
Harry Dexter White, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury with Solomon Adler and Frank Coe, head of IMF; considered highest USSR agent in U.S.
In 1962, he was responsible for the manhunt that killed the notorious criminal José Miranda Rosa, better known as Mineirinho.
At that time, a small chapel in the capital was used to incarcerate the regime's prisoners, who totaled fewer than two hundred.
In the period up to October 17, 1980 alone, computers were used to successfully solve more than 50 various crimes.
Involvement Although officially a military division, Taiwan Garrison Command actually functioned as a secret police organization.
Clive Foss, in The Tyrants: 2500 years of Absolute Power and Corruption, estimates that 1,500 Chileans were killed or disappeared during the Pinochet regime.
The Kempeitai organized regular and violent reprisals against populations in Japan's occupied territories.
This was due to the military reformism of the military junta governments of the 1960s and 1970s led by Oswaldo López Arellano and Juan Alberto Melgar.
In Japan during peacetime, the Kempeitai was answerable to the Ministry of War for regular military duties, the Home Ministry for civil police duties, and Ministry of Justice for law administration duties.
Lithuania was invaded by the Soviet Union in 1940, and following an ultimatum, became a Soviet Socialist Republic.
On 9 September 1991, the KGB of the MSSR was transformed into the Ministry of National Security (now, the Information and Security Service of the Republic of Moldova).
He said that during the Communist regime it was not possible to advance in the Church hierarchy without the consent of and collaboration with the Securitate.
One of the country's first three privately owned networks, it was launched in August 1994 by Mihai Tatulici and other defectors from the state-owned TVR network, with assistance from a group of investors.
It was actively involved in suppression of suspected Communist sympathizers or Taiwan Independence activists.
Somehow, Father Jerzy pried open the trunk; however, the car continued along its destination, causing Father Jerzy to struggle.
From 1923 to 1933, due to reforms in the Weimar Republic the prison went through its most lenient period.
Anthony Mascarenhas claimed that within three years, deaths of mostly Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal members reached 30,000, all of which were killed by the Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini.
The SIM aided to stop the atrocities of the "uncontrollables" (agents of the SIM protected 2,000 priests who were conducting private religious services in Barcelona in 1938) and destroyed many networks of the Fifth Column (Concepción, Circulo Azul, Capitán Mora, Cruces de Fuego, etc.).
The trial was expected that the recommendations from the prosecutors are approved by presiding judge Artur Kujawa and his four co-jurists.
The Office of Recruitment and Training supervised the recruitment of new members of the militsiya, who were recommended by work collectives and public organizations.
They were also known as the Agent-Combat Groups (ABG), legend groups, false UPA detachments and the NKVD units dressed as UPA fighters.
All secret servicemen, functionaries, and employees were widely known by the public as Ubecy; in English "Ubeks" and singular "Ubek/Esbek" (pronounced: OO-beck).
Between 23 and 27 June 1941, 4,000 Jews were murdered on the streets of Kaunas and in nearby open pits and ditches.
Nesvadba was registered as an agent of the Czechoslovak Communist secret police StB under the codename Autor.
Yuschenko was found to have been poisoned with TCDD dioxin during the 2004 Ukrainian presidential election campaign.
Under the military dictatorship installed in 1964, the DOPS was overseen by Sérgio Paranhos Fleury, who was accused of torture and homicide but died before trial.
Several people were removed from prominent positions, but the personal continuity of the MBP-KdsBP management was maintained.
Weighing 0.44 kg empty, it could fire three 7.62 mm rounds, each held in a separate barrel only 2.5 cm long and each having a separate striker.
While most victims were Cambodian, several hundred foreigners, including the Vietnamese and a small number of Westerners (such as the American and French nationals), were also imprisoned and executed there.
The Seguridad Nacional was active during the presidencies of Eleazar López Contreras, Isaías Medina Angarita, Rómulo Betancourt, Rómulo Gallegos, Carlos Delgado Chalbaud, Germán Suárez Flamerich, and most notably, Marcos Pérez Jiménez.
To address international criticism, a small exposition describing the Holocaust in Lithuania was added in 2011.
Czechs in History, Radio Prague (Czech Radio International), 10 January 2001{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link).
Pietraskinski's critical attitude towards Father Jerzy Pietrasinski was also critical towards Father Jerzy, if not only four indicted secret agents, and the Roman Catholic.
The name of the institution and its formula was a copy of the name and formula of the KGB USSR, (acronym of Committee for State Security under the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union.
In 1972, the AGM/S was trained to conduct black ops missions in West Germany for sabotage and assassinations by using criminal and terrorist tactics.
An intelligence officer said of Amin that he "kept switching his food and drink as if he expected to be poisoned".
The Germans began to suspect that Sorge, who was posing as a journalist sympathetic to Nazism, was a Soviet agent, and in mid-1940 informed the Kempeitai that Sorge was under surveillance.
MVD – "Ministry of Internal Affairs" Lavrentiy Beria (March 5, 1953 – June 26, 1953) Sergei Kruglov (June 26, 1953 – March 13, 1954) March 13, 1954: Newly independent force became the KGB, as Beria was purged and the MVD divested itself again of the functions of secret policing.
IRIN news wrote, citing an unnamed former official of Somalia, that: "Meles knew Somalia very well, as he lived in Mogadishu when he was a liberation leader in the 1980s.
Păunescu himself suspected that management had been ordered to pull the plug by someone in the intelligence apparatus.
By 1998, Hurricane Mitch left more than 2 million Hondurans without a home or job, a good portion of the infrastructure that was totally damaged, dragging Honduras into more poverty.
Each detachment had sections for police (keimu han), administration (naikin han), and special duties (tokumu han).
Between 1984 and 1985, after congressional committees began questioning training techniques being used by the CIA in Latin America, the 1983 manual went through substantial revision.
He is accused of having been in charge of a secret detention center known as La Venda Sexy ("Sexy Blindfold") and La Discothèque—because of the sexual abuse inflicted on blindfolded prisoners as loud music masked their screams.
The Kempeitai and Tokkō investigated and concluded that Sorge was a Soviet spy, and also came to suspect Ozaki, who was arrested on 15 October 1941.
US troops held large military exercises in Honduras during the 1980s, and trained thousands of Salvadorans in the country.
Division IV (Protection of churches and religious associations): Separated from Division III in 1962.
As this method proved too slow, the Einsatzkommandos began to take their victims out in larger groups and shot them next to, or even inside, mass graves that had been prepared.
Iturriaga was also appointed governor of the province of Parinacota between 1981 and 1984, and also governor of the province of Valdivia between 1986 and 1988.
The initial UB was headed by Public Security General Stanisław Radkiewicz and supervised by Jakub Berman of the Polish Politburo.
The union also recruited agents in New York, London, Brussels, and Paris to gather intelligence on dissidents and radicals operating beyond the reach of its member agencies.
Owing to the confusion and often arbitrary arrests, the Republican minister of Defense, Indalecio Prieto decided to reorganize the intelligence services in order to increase the control of the central government.
Functions for imprisoning political and dissents activists and re-educating gangsters without trial were terminated.
All prison facilities were transferred to either the Military Police Command, or to the Culture Establishment Commission for memorial purposes.
Variant TKB-506A The TKB-506A had an identical armament, and similar weight of around 0.47 kg with ammo, but was even smaller (7.4 cm height) by doing away with the cut-through hole used for the trigger in TKB-506.
The department was known for its harsh interrogations, torture and executions and SS members of this department were feared by prisoners.
Światło had intimate knowledge of the internal politics of the Polish government, especially the activities of the various secret services.
The Sheikh Mujib government responded by forming the Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini, which began a crackdown on the general populace.
While the helicopters were hovering around the court, dozens of policemen set up the barricades, blocking the approaches pathways to the yellow-and-red, three-story brick courthouse on Piekarska Street in the provincial city of Toruń.
When the Khmer Rouge took power in 1975, Duch moved his headquarters to Phnom Penh and reported directly to Sen.
Later in June 1941, Sudoplatov was placed in charge of the NKVD's Special Missions Directorate, whose principal task was to carry out sabotage operations behind enemy lines in wartime (both it and the Foreign Department had also been used to carry out assassinations abroad).
The building was constructed in 1935 for the Archival Services in Kristiansand, and in the periods 1935–1940 and 1945–1997 used by this institution.
Southern Command advised governments in Latin America that the manuals contained passages that did not represent U.S.
The other employees of the department were members of the Waffen-SS, technically also Gestapo officers, but as SS members, belonged to the Stabskompanie, the company attached to the command headquarters and thus to the disciplinary authority of the commandant and adjutant.
Nesvadba's work directed satirical barbs at the communist government of Czechoslovakia, as he had little faith in the grandiose dreams of 20th-century Communism.
The building became an information center about Norway during World War II and education for peace building and conflict resolution.
This course was maintained for three more years after Tatulici's departure; during that interval, the station also lost viewers and employees to the rapidly expanding Pro TV.
The number of employees of the Committee for Public Security was cut by 30% in central headquarters and by 40–50% in local structures.
Neue Bremm (German: Gedenkstätte Gestapo-Lager Neue Bremm) was a Nazi torture camp in Saarbrücken, set up in 1943 by the Gestapo intentionally with no oversight from other institutions.
Initially in the 1944-1945 years the Soviet leadership underestimated the scale of the liberation movement in Ukraine and mistakenly thought that they would have been able to cope easily with the rebels by the date of some Soviet public holiday, mainly using military operations.
Before 2018, the museum was known as the Museum of Genocide Victims, reflecting a broadened definition of genocide used by the Genocide and Resistance Research Centre.
In 2018, the museum was renamed the Museum of Occupations and Freedom Fights after international criticism.
However, the Soviet propaganda, aimed at the international scene, would deny any visions of conquest and pro-Soviet sympathizers would stage various protests in Western European countries against their government actions which aimed to support Poland against the Soviet advance.
This is a 7.5-metre (25 ft) high glass cube, on which the story of the protest movement in Thuringia and the occupation of the prison and Stasi headquarters is told in the style of a graphic novel.
The largest demonstration in Erfurt, which had a population of 220,000, was on 3 November 1989 and had up to an estimated 100,000 participants.
In 1977, Iturriaga became head of the Economic Intelligence Department of the DINA, being one of the founders.
The Politische Abteilung ("Political Department"), also called the "concentration camp Gestapo," was one of the five departments of a Nazi concentration camp set up by the Concentration Camps Inspectorate (CCI) to operate the camps.
In 1944, he was awarded the Order of the Red Star for his merits in the development of new types of artillery weapons.
Operations and activities The union's activities were strictly focused on the maintenance of political order, with routine crime and criminals outside its area of interest.
Worked alongside the FRD until BCD was sent back to the BPT in 1972 with some duties taken by Division II and MO.
In popular culture The SB is featured in the Polish TV series 1983 which is set in an alternative 2003 where Poland is still a communist country.
In 1937, after graduating from Gorky Industrial Institute, he worked as an engineer at Kolomna Machine Building Plant.
Karl Herber managed the Vugesta, headquartered in the "Reichsverkehrsgruppe Spedition und Lagerei / Ostmark" (formerly Central Association of Freight Forwarders for Austria, Vienna 1, Bauernmarkt 24).
This name change implied a break with the all-powerful MVD created by Lavrentiy Beria, as well as a narrower range of functions.
'General Intelligence Directorate of Iraq') also known as the Mukhabarat, General Intelligence Directorate, or Party Intelligence, was an 8,000-man agency that served as the main state civilian intelligence and security agency in Iraq under Saddam Hussein.
The commission did not include any representatives of the victims or members of the associations of ex-political prisoners.
In 1941, the state-security function was separated from the NKVD and became the People's Commissariat for State Security (NKGB), only to be reintegrated a few months later during the Axis invasion of the Soviet Union.
Zejda, Radovan (1994), "Jeden ze zapovězených", Věčná zahrada (afterword), Třebíč, Czech Republic: Arca JiMfa.
In 2004, he was the Head Florist for the Royal Wedding of the Danish Crown Prince in Copenhagen Cathedral.
In 2011 Rose was updated to ROSEGold which provides a real time service between the call centre in Sleaford, Lincolnshire and the Interflora members around the United Kingdom.
Like many notable horticulturists, he was of Scottish descent, his great-grandfather, John Veitch having crossed into England toward the close of the eighteenth century to take up the offices of steward and bailiff to Sir Thomas Acland at Killerton, Devon.
Through Floral Jamming, these participants can assemble a final floral product under professional guidance without having taken any classes.
1951), Collection de l'art brut, 6 1/8 x 9 1/2 L'Eden Casino de Berck-plage (1952) References External links Exhibition catalogue for Art Brut in America
(Collins, 1955) External links The Language of Flowers: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project == Notes ==
Works Décor de nuit (1948), Collection de l'art brut, 8 x 7 1/8 Un coin de bibliothèque (1948) Prince ancien à son tombeau (1949) Montmartre et la Moulin Rouge (1949), Collection de l'art brut, 20 1/2 x 13 Vieille maison de Montmartre (1949) Argument d'un jardin mondial (c.
The Melbourne International Flower and Garden Show is a flower show held annually since 1995 in early April each year except 2020, in Melbourne, Australia.
The long-running show was not held in 2025, with the Shropshire Horticultural Society citing the rising costs of organising the event.
In 2010, Bergmann founded the flower themed Nomu Café in Omotesando In 2017, Bergmann introduced a line of jewelry called "Natur", which seeks inspiration from floral arrangements.
It was not uncommon in the 19th and early 20th century for Ikebana students practicing Seika or Shoka to construct Aspidistra arrangements for a year or more before graduating and being granted a license to arrange other floral materials.
Recordings "The Unknown Elgar" includes "The Language of Flowers" performed by Teresa Cahill (soprano), with Barry Collett (piano).
Henry Butler Cave (10 October 1922 – 15 September 1989) was a New Zealand cricketer who captained New Zealand in nine of his 19 Test matches.
On 7 October 1775 empress Maria Terezia of Austria awarded Anton Brunswick the title of count Brunswick of Korompa.
Both symbols were popular with left-wing, revolutionary, and radical movements of the era, as well as in the counterculture of the 1960s.
Seal's dahlia business had developed to such proportions in four years that her one small garden could not raise all the tubers she shipped away.
CBS News has described him as "the world's leading flower designer" while The New York Times says that "to call him a master flower designer is akin to calling Annie Leibovitz a shutterbug".
Following the French Revolution of 1848, the socialists pushed to have the revolution's red flag be designated the national flag.
In 1944, Benjamin Tobin acquired the building, renamed it the Breitmeyer–Tobin Building, and marketed the office space to black professionals.
Rather than risk losing the recognised reputation which the firm had acquired, Harry disposed of the nursery and sold the land for redevelopment.
This idea had never entered her head, as she had no stock on hand, but she was quick to grasp the opportunity and in a few weeks, had taken order for US$600 worth of tubers which she had to buy to fill.
Vilsmark is an approved supplier of floristry to the King’s Fund, the Dulwich Picture Gallery and the National Maritime Museum.
Every sixty seconds, the minute hand moves 1.5 feet (0.46 m), and the hour hand moves proportionately.
In 1921 she again entered an floriculture competition and received a gold medal for her contribution in the exhibition.
His ashes were interred alongside his mother's remains at St Matthew's Church, Blackmoor, on 19 June 2017.
Major highlights of the 2008 edition of the flower show include an exhibition of Italian flowers, Bonsai trees, and a display of the Kudumbashree bio-bin.
The chief floral designer leads a staff of four assistant designers and works with the first lady, chief usher, and White House social secretary to plan arrangements and decorations for state dinners, receptions, and day-to-day placement throughout the ceremonial rooms and Executive Residence.
The Cochin Flower Show is a garden show held each year for five to six days in February - March days by the Ernakulam district Agri-Horticultural Society at the city of Kochi, Kerala, India.
The Prince Takamatsu Cup was the highest award until the prince's demise, nowadays the highest award is the Prime Minister's Prize.
Floral Jamming Participants of Floral Jamming are usually beginners who have little to no experience in floral arrangement or floral design.
See also Advent calendar Chrismon tree Christingle Daily devotional References External links Advent wreath FAQ at the Lutheran Missouri Synod web site Advent hymns including two examples of Advent Wreath carols Advent Bible Themes
Yodpiman River Walk also serves as a pier for the Chao Phraya Express Boat, with the designated pier number N6/1.
The Guinness World Record for the largest flower carpet of the world is held by Jardines of Mexico, in Teotihuacan, where an 18,000 m2 (190,000 sq ft) flower carpet was made on 8 December 2018.
In 1966, she successfully campaigned and was elected along with Les Peterson to co-represent the dual member riding of Vancouver-Little Mountain.
Honours For his services to horticulture, King George V conferred the honour of knighthood upon him in 1912; this was the first time a horticulturist had been given a knighthood.
Owe Sandström also introduced the opening number and show feature of Stockholm International Horse Show at the Globen.
From 1968 to 1986, the Urban Council held an Annual Urban Council Flower Show at City Hall, while the Regional Council held the North District Flower Show.
He is also a teacher, having taught at the Spånga Gymnasium in Stockholm, where he specializes in nature and tropical animals.
The Cochin Flower Show 2008 The 2008 edition of the flower show was held from the 5th to the 10th of March, both days inclusive.
In 1953 the name changed to Interflora and the slogan Flowers Worldwide along with the Mercury Man roundel became well known.
See also Moribana Senchadō References External links Media related to Bunjinbana at Wikimedia Commons
The judge ruled that in general everyone has a right to wear any flower as suits their taste, but when socialists as a group wear red rosebuds, it becomes a party emblem.
In 1813 Jozef Brunswick asked architect Anton Pius Riegel to procure several old statues from Rome for the ornamentation of the mansion and of the park, in order to enhance its classical appearance.
The rose is a sign of joy and love, Young blushing love in its earliest dawn, And the mildness that suits the gentle dove, From the myrtle's snowy flow'rs is drawn.
The Society of Floristry Limited was formed in 1951 to meet the growing need for professional recognition for florists in the UK.
Post World War II The show, not held during the Second World War, was revived in 1946, with the organising support of Percy Thrower who was Shrewsbury's Parks Superintendent from that year until 1975, and acted as horticultural advisor and eventually chairman of the Shropshire Horticultural Society.
This comes from the perception that companies such as FTD, 1800flowers, From You Flowers and Teleflora take floral orders away from the local business and extract excessive commission.
Universities such as the University of Missouri's Museum of Art and Archaeology in Columbia, Missouri also hold "Art in Bloom" exhibitions.
See also Floral industry Cut flowers References Further reading Lewis, Geoffrey (1986).The Interflora Story.
The east necklace contains a sub-district sometimes called the Harmonie Park District, which has taken on the renowned legacy of Detroit's music from the 1930s through the 1950s and into the present.
As well as flowers, the show includes other attractions such as cookery demonstrations, gala dinners, music and horse riding displays.
It is harvested by xateros (a name given to those who harvest xate) from palms in the forests of Mexico, Guatemala, and Belize.
Rintaro Tatewaki (帯刀 凛太郎, Tatewaki Rintarō) Voiced by: Yūki Ono, Tomoko Tsuzuki (child) A handsome sculptor who makes everyone around him happy.
The company focuses on the following member needs: Demand Creation, Global Connections, Science & Technology, Industry Talent and Sustainability.
Bergmann teaches at their floristry school in Omotesando, runs a design consultancy Nicolai Bergmann Flowers & Design, and operates a flower themed Nomu Café.
Connolly tries to practise sustainable floristry, incorporating live plants into his works which can be replanted afterwards rather than dying and being thrown away.
External links Museum of Fine Arts, Boston – Art in Bloom 2007 Minneapolis Institute of Arts – Art in Bloom 2007 Art Gallery of Greater Victoria - Art in Bloom 2007 St.
In 2009 she was employed by Department for Presidential Affairs of the Russian Federation in Northwestern Federal District as floral designer.
In turn, nageire is recognized as a certain stylistic category of Kadō, the Japanese "Way of Flowers".
The following year, in 1988, PMA joined with United Fresh & Vegetable Association to establish the Center for Produce Quality.
At 16, he enrolled in a three year technical program in Denmark which included a combination of course work and internships at flower shops.
She had been growing dahlias commercially for only one year when in 1916, she was the winner of the silver trophy cup given by the society for the best general collection of dahlias at their first exhibition in San Francisco.
The Fayetteville Dogwood Festival in Fayetteville, North Carolina is a three-day event held annually since 1982 Siloam Springs, Arkansas holds an annual Dogwood Festival in April Winchester, Tennessee, has held a Dogwood Festival annually since 2005.
New symbols have also arisen: one of the most known in the United Kingdom is the red poppy as a symbol of remembrance of the fallen in war.
A chrysanthemum exhibition (菊花展覧会 Kikatenrankai) is a flower show that takes place in various parts of Japan every autumn from October to November.
To start off a session a floral designer will give a brief introduction on the materials and on how to start a floral arrangement by introducing the fundamental principles of floral arrangement.
Estimates have calculated an amount of 400 million stems exported from Guatemala and Belize to North America and Europe every year.
It was formerly known as the Marché aux fleurs et aux oiseaux Cité but was renamed for Queen Elizabeth II after a state visit in 2014.
Shinra Ichijoji (一条寺 神楽, Ichijōji Shinra) Voiced by: Daisuke Hirakawa (anime) Teika's older brother.
They met several times at the hospital from 1948 to 1949, and she donated her works to him personally.
Spinks Ranch was a large enough operation by 1909 to employ a staff of farmhands, and included land in Bradbury Canyon, near Duarte, California, where Spinks resided at the time.
The 60th festival was held on February 26, 2011, the 61st was held on February 23–26, 2012 and the 68th in February 2019 and opened by Humayun Aziz a Pakistan Army General.
It was a handicapped event, featuring the five top players from the previous event – Schaefer and Ives, as world champions, had to reach 600 points to Spinks's, William Catton's and George Butler Sutton's 260.
The following table shows some of the main flowers and accents used to create a custom-made corsage and that can be included in a nosegay and boutonnière.
At around the same time, the owners of the building opened up office space to rental by African Americans; the building was one of the first downtown to do so.
office in Rome where it validated the process on 22 October 1993 as having complied with their guidelines for conducting diocesan processes.
Connolly was also commissioned to oversee the floral arrangements at Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace for the 2011 wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton.
Sandström is also known for several television performances, of which he amongst others took part at the Söndagsöppet segment "Hur gör djur" in the 1990s.
In turn, the imagery of lover and beloved became a type of the Sufi mystic's quest for divine love, so that Ibn Arabi, for example, aligns the rose with the beloved's blushing cheek on the one hand and, on the other, with the divine names and attributes.
After the show made severe losses due to bad weather in 1970, Thrower and Doug Whittingham both stood as financial guarantors to enable the show, which made a profit in better conditions in 1971, to continue staging.
The initial steps for her beatification process started in the 1970s but the formal introduction for the cause came in 1984 – she became titled as a Servant of God.
From the late 1980s, it was less frequently used on election posters, and reserved to communication aimed at party members; the rose was increasingly used and mentioned alone, avoiding the revolutionary reference of the fist, and the PS was often nicknamed "the rose party".
He has worked on many major events, and was Head Florist for the wedding of the Danish Crown Prince in 2004.
In these early years, the chrysanthemum was typically used as the homecoming corsage flower because of its heartiness, popularity, and seasonal availability.
The Conservancy intends to refocus the event on its original "greening" mission, as well as support Baltimore-based vendors.
After the festival was cancelled in 1996, due to discrepancies within the league, the Flower Mart returned to Mount Vernon Place.
The first floral clock was the idea of John McHattie, Superintendent of Parks in Edinburgh, Scotland.
Becoming an authority for dahlia culture on the West coast, she published a detailed catalogue each year and acted as an introducer for new varieties which amateur growers would bring to high quality.
In other Protestant churches, especially in the United Kingdom, it is more common for Advent wreaths to have four red candles (reflecting their traditional use in Christmas decorations).
In 2000, the Hong Kong government decided to change the organizer to the newly-established LCSD and the location was fixed to be Victoria Park.
Charlotta Christina Boberg (1816-1898), was a Swedish businesswoman who sold fruit and flowers as a månglare.
The development of the Dolná Krupá estate started when it entered in the possession of Michael II Brunswick (1671–1719) as he married Hungarian noblewoman, Margarethe Maria Theresia Vitalis de Vitalisfalva, the newlyweds choosing the property as their residence.
Although AmeriFlora set up an escrow account to hold the $2.6 million for this purpose, some of its funding was to come from ticket sales, which failed to meet expectations.
https://townofgalena.com/dogwood The Vestavia Hills Dogwood Festival is a multifaceted month-long event in Vestavia Hills, Alabama The Dogwood Festival of Charlottesville, Virginia has been held since 1958.
It was registered and added to Russian Book of Records, a national reference book listing the achievements of Russian people.
The advantage of this service is the consolidation of purchases for delivery to multiple locations through a single website.
Veitch's responsibility, energy, enthusiasm, and keenness in business surprised even those who knew him best.
Hong Kong Flower Show (Chinese: 香港花卉展覽) is an annual exhibition presented by the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD) of Hong Kong.
Singapore's national flower Agnes Joaquim won prizes at annual flower shows and famously won the prize for the rarest orchid at the 1899 annual flower show.
Karl Owe Sandström (born September 28, 1944) is a Swedish clothing designer, zoologist, safari leader, flamenco dancer, restaurateur, and florist.
These are usually annual events coinciding with the blooming of dogwood trees in the spring: The Atlanta Dogwood Festival is an arts-and-crafts fair held annually at Piedmont Park in Atlanta, Georgia.
Besides her interest in gardening, Agnes was also an active member of the Armenian Church and a skilled embroiderer.
A confident and slightly cheeky first year student, he is shy and sensitive to the words of others, but once he's opened his heart to someone, he gets needy.
The minute hand is 20 feet (6.1 m) long, and the hour hand is 15 feet (4.6 m) long; both weigh approximately 500 pounds (230 kg).
Although these are no longer commonly understood by populations that are increasingly divorced from their rural traditions, some meanings survive.
At his peak, his was a household name in American billiards; The New York Times ranked Spinks as one of "the most brilliant players among the veterans of the game", and he still holds the world record for points scored in a row (1,010) using a particular shot type.
Examples One of the most popular flower carpet events is the Flower Carpet biennial in Brussels in which volunteers from around Belgium convene at the Grand-Place/Grote Markt, the historic centre of the city, to weave a carpet-like tapestry out of colourful begonias or dahlias.
On the grounds sits the Franklin Park Conservatory, originally built in 1895 and modeled after the Glass Palace of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago.
Instead of sitting on a bank of earth as most similar floral clocks do, the Frankfort clock is suspended above a pool of water.
See also Gardening in Australia References External links Melbourne International Garden and Flower Show Florist Melbourne - Bud Flowers Pash Flowers: Online Flowers & Same-Day Delivery
Career Alexandra was born in Naberezhnye Chelny in the Republic of Tatarstan, Russia and studied floral design in Kyiv, Ukraine in the early 1990s and in Moscow in the middle 2000s.
1950s Cave was one of the leading players in Central Districts' inaugural season in the Plunket Shield in 1950–51, when they finished second.
Chabana, however, refers specifically to the flower display in the room or space for chadō, and though it fundamentally is a form of ikebana, it comprises a genre unto its own.
It was originally started in 1924 by the local council, but since 1986 has been operated by Southport Flower Show company, which is a registered charity.
The phrase Art In Bloom is often used as the title of various exhibits held annually, usually in spring, in art museums.
A $16 million renovation and expansion project made the Victorian structure the centerpiece of AmeriFlora and Franklin Park.
Daniel Ost is no longer involved as an owner or in the daily management of the business and only acts in an advisory capacity on limited selected projects.
When he was a student at Hoshigei, he participated in the Art Session with Sakura Aigasaki and Masana Ichijoji.
Biography Connolly was born in May 1963 in west Belfast; his father was a dentist and his mother a social worker.
Nicolai Bergmann (born June 12, 1976) is a Tokyo-based Danish flower artist and designer best known for his flower boxes, a technique that started a trend in Japan.
In the early 2000s, Interflora brought out a system called Rose, this used the internet but instead of a dial-up connection a broadband connection was used.
The Bloemenmarkt (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈbluməˌmɑr(ə)kt]) is the world's only floating flower market.
Her aunt was a registered månglare and sold fruit, but her business had expanded beyond what was expected of a månglare.
In an attempt to improve his hold on power, Bennett promised that any woman elected to the legislature while he was in power would become a member of his Cabinet.
Sydney Percy-Lancaster (19 July 1886, Meerut, India – 9 May 1972, New Delhi) was an English landscape gardener who worked in India.
On 28 February 2010 the Society ceased trading and was acquired and absorbed into the British Florist Association.
NDP leader Mike Harcourt further stirred the pot by claiming that he preferred Johnston over McCarthy, asserting his belief that the latter would be a much tougher opponent in an election.
Seal, specializing in dahlia and delphinium seeds, 1930 (bulletin and price list) Dahlias, 1935 == References ==
These shows were attended by thousands of florists and students over the years, raising standards and pushing back the boundaries of commercial floral design.
This collection ranges from detailed accounts on ornamental plants to plant breeding simplified, sacred plants of Hindus, garden lay out, etc.
Notes References External links Official website (in Japanese) Official game website (in Japanese) Magic-kyun!
Recognition In May 1962, the National Council of State Garden Clubs presented the state of Kentucky with its Bronze Seal Award for its efforts to beautify the state capitol, with the clock being a large part of that effort.
Harry James Dodson (11 September 1919 – 25 July 2005) was an English gardener who became a celebrity as a result of the BBC television documentary series The Victorian Kitchen Garden, which featured his professional expertise and his reminiscences.
Location The annual Baltimore Flower Mart is held in Mount Vernon Place, in the Mount Vernon neighborhood of Baltimore.
The original exhibit was held in the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston in 1976, where it is held annually; other institutions hosting such displays include the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, the Art Gallery of Greater Victoria, the North Carolina Museum of Art, and the Saint Louis Art Museum in St.
The Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee (DSOC), one of the DSA's precursor organizations, had used the classic fist and rose.
He was commissioned by the Royal Family to produce arrangements for the 2005 wedding of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles, the 2011 wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton and the 2023 coronation of Charles III and Camilla.
It was featured in the 2005 Guinness Book of Records as the "longest-running flower show" in the world.
Prom When attending a school formal or prom in the US, providing a corsage for a prom date signifies consideration and generosity, as the corsage is meant to symbolize and honor the person wearing it.
Roman Catholics in Germany began to adopt the custom in the 1920s, and in the 1930s it spread to North America.
Gallery References External links Southport Flower Show official website Media related to Southport Flower Show at Wikimedia Commons
When that garden was closed in 1888, the show was moved to the gardens of the Inner Temple near the Victoria Embankment.
After that, the flower show was jointly organised by the Urban Council and the Regional Council, with the location alternating between Victoria Park and Sha Tin Central Park.
Beginning in the 1960s, the term was reappropriated by Japanese gay media: notably with the 1961 anthology Ba-ra-kei: Ordeal by Roses, a collection of semi-nude photographs of homosexual writer Yukio Mishima by photographer Eikoh Hosoe, and later with Barazoku (薔薇族; lit.
After a series of scandals and discontent within caucus led to Vander Zalm's resignation in 1991, McCarthy entered the 1991 leadership election to succeed him.
In other Ikebana schools Seika is a composite that more reflects and emphasizes the design elements using plant materials.
During Advent, children at the mission school Rauhes Haus, founded by Wichern in Hamburg, would ask daily if Christmas had arrived.
References External links Article about the Cochin Flower Show 2008 Article about the Cochin Flower Show 2007 Article about the Cochin Flower Show 2006 Article about the Cochin Flower Show 2005 Article about the Cochin Flower Show 2004 Article about the Cochin Flower Show 2003
The silent, soft and humble heart, In the violet's hidden sweetness breathes, And the tender soul that cannot part, In a twine of evergreen fondly wreathes.
Other than Japanese sweet flag, cammellia, plum blossoms, chrysanthemums, and daffodils is commonly used.
Florists have organized new nonprofit initiatives through a group called Florists for Change with a website RealLocalFlorists.com.
Through the career she decorated Constantine Palace, Mikhailovsky Palace, Tavrichesky Palace, the Vladimir Palace, Nicholas Palace, Yusupov Palace and the Pavilion of Roses in Pavlovsk Park.
In 2010, Floral Symphonies provided the flower table centres for the King's Fund launch of No.11 Cavendish Square.
References Banfield, Stephen, Sensibility and English Song: Critical studies of the early 20th century (Cambridge University Press, 1985) ISBN 0-521-37944-X Kennedy, Michael, Portrait of Elgar (Oxford University Press, 1968) ISBN 0-19-315414-5 McVeagh, Diana M.
Along with vendors are various forms of live entertainment and edible treats for guests, such as its traditional lemon sticks.
Her nonuniform stitches go in all directions, yet evoke associations with the firm brushwork of painters.
In 1928 she helped establish a pavilion in the hospital for patients suffering from infectious-contagious diseases.
The event takes place every other August, coordinating with Assumption Day, and lasts for three to four days.
A floral clock, or flower clock, is a large decorative clock with the clock face formed by carpet bedding, usually found in a park or other public recreation area.
Founder Floral Jamming was founded by Lowdi Kwan, a floral designer with certification from the American Institute of Floral Designers in 1996.
In 1897, when Elsom was 30, she moved to Christchurch and established a successful floristry business in High Street called A.
In 1918 she helped in the foundation of a new hospital in her hometown using her own funds; it was inaugurated on 14 March 1919 after which she served from 1920 until 1925 as the hospital's vice-president for the administrative commission.
Biography Ost was born in 1955 in the suburban town of Sint-Niklaas, Belgium, in a family of which he was the eldest of six children.
Germany The fist and rose (German: Faust und Rose) has been used by the Young Socialists in the SPD (Jusos) since the 1970s, emphasizing the organization's more radical views than its parent party, the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD).
Internationals The emblem was picked up by the Socialist International (SI) in 1979, in a variant inspired from José María Cruz Novillo's 1977 Spanish version, although restored to a right hand directed left, and with the leaves coloured green.
The only flower clock with two faces moved by the same system is located in Zacatlán, Puebla, Mexico.
Some Advent wreaths also have a white candle in the center, known as the 'Christ candle', to symbolize the arrival of Christmastide.
Texas-style homecoming mums are considerably larger today than in past generations and typically feature numerous ribbons and additional adornments, including loops, braids, whips (basket-style woven ribbons), feather boas, personalized teddy bears, die-cuts, and various trinkets and baubles.
It developed from the Bunjinga (文人画 "literati painting") movement among different Japanese artists of the late Edo period, who however all shared an admiration for traditional Chinese culture and paintings.
The inspiration for the new system was simply making it possible for the newly ascendant Willie Hoppe to be meaningfully challenged – his near-unassailability was hurting billiard tournament revenues, because the outcome was considered foreordained by many potential ticket-buyers.
Like her aunt, she belonged to the minority of månglare who managed to become wealthy on her business.
Southport Flower Show, held at Victoria Park in Southport, is the largest independent flower show in the United Kingdom.
An all-rounder, six feet two inches tall, Cave bowled accurate medium-pace and batted in the middle or lower order.
The company is led by Yann Callaert, who serves as Chief Executive Officer, and his daughter Nele Ost, who is Creative Director.
Unlike most of his countrymen who packed up and return to England in 1947, upon the independence of India from the British Empire, Percy-Lancaster stayed on and made India his home.
The Ko-ryū Toyokai school has a style of seika inherited from the Edo Period, where plants are arranged with precise angles and proportions.
With three categories, it is one of the largest events of its kind in the region by both scale and content.
The only rose garden which had not suffered due to the war was the Roseraie de L'Haÿ in France and the successors of Jules Gravereau, who were in charge of the rosarium were not inclined to help competition develop in the countries defeated during the war.
The månglare-permit was granted by the city authorities to people (foremost married women) who could argue that they needed to support themselves, and there where regulations to prevent a månglare from expanding their business beyond what was needed for self support.
These flowers are much esteemed by the Japanese, who pay more attention to size and brilliancy of colour than to perfume.
This idea was among many of the goals of the City Beautiful movement in the United States, which encouraged beautifying and fostering more healthy living conditions in urban centers.
Among other management tools, the standards established a regeneration period of four months during which the xate plant can fully recover and is again ready for harvest.
Some, such as the Japanese kenzan, are utilitarian metal devices that fit into a vase or bowl and fix the stems by metal needles.
The position of Chief Floral Designer was established, and Rusty Young was the first to occupy the position, continuing to work into the Johnson and Nixon administrations.
In the 1940s, Wanganui players were eligible to play for Wellington, and he made his first-class debut for Wellington on Christmas Eve 1945.
Nichlas Sorren Osman Vilsmark (born 24 July 1973) is a Danish florist and teacher, living and working in London, United Kingdom.
The UK's largest and longest running independent flower show, each year it attracts many celebrities from all over the world, from television and film to music and sport.
Early life Born in Singapore, Hovakimian was the eldest daughter and second child of Parsick (Basil) Joaquim, an Armenian merchant and commercial agent, and Urelia Joaquim.
Many types of flower frogs are art pieces with holes for flower stems and a container for holding water.
The Dogwood Arts Festival is a yearly arts festival in Knoxville, Tennessee, that was started in 1960.
Characteristics Seika incorporates many of the structural rules and classical feeling of the ancient rikka of the Ikenobō school.
Carpets of live flowers are arranged for the Feast of Corpus Christi in Spycimierz, Klucz, Olszowa, Zalesie Śląskie, Zimna Wódka in Poland.
Similar to her aunt, she was not addressed with the title månglare (which was her official and formal profession), but as a fruit merchant.
It sells caged birds on Sundays but this trade has been forbidden on the grounds of animal welfare and so is expected to cease after a period of renovation and reorganisation scheduled from 2023 to 2025.
Bunjinbana (文人花, "literati flowers") is a style of ikebana that is inspired by traditional Chinese landscapes.
Biography A native of Dragør, Denmark, Bergmann first began his interest in flowers as a child by making Christmas wreaths with friends.
Biography She was born in Dunedin, New Zealand, the daughter of Elizabeth Martin and her husband, William Read.
Cave toured England in 1958, this time as John Reid's vice-captain, but the tour was not a success for him or the team.
But the name of Maria Henrietta Chotekova, who established rose breeding in Dolná Krupá, seems to be forgotten is not mentioned any more.
The "Dogwood Festival of the Lewis-Clark Valley" is a month-long festival celebrated annually in Lewiston, Idaho The "Lake of the Ozarks Dogwood Festival" began in 1950 in Camdenton, Missouri.
Some other drugs, such as certain anticoagulants and plasma volume expanders remain under the control of CBER.
Sensory and Consumer Sciences Achievement Award (2014) –To recognize excellence within the sensory and consumer sciences field.
White allowed the planting of GM sugar beets to continue, but he also warned that this may be blocked in the future while an environmental review was taking place.
International agreements The HPFB signed an electronic data interchange agreement with the US Food and Drug Administration in November 2003, and again in April 2004 with the Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia.
Members of this office include veterinarians, animal scientists, toxicologists, consumer safety officers, and other scientists.
In November 2020, the FDA planned to create a "Summary of the REMS Assessment" document that would publicize their assessments of clinical settings and manufacturers in the REMS program.
They are inspectional observations, and do not represent a final Agency determination regarding your compliance.
Typically, clinical trials in human subjects are conducted and the results are provided as part of the clinical information package of a New Drug Submission (NDS) to Health Canada, the federal authority that reviews the safety and efficacy of human drugs.
It was formed in its current state on 1 October 2014, when AHVLA was expanded by adding parts of the Food and Environment Research Agency (FERA), including the Plant Health and Seeds Inspectorate (PHSI).
Each dataset is distinguished by a unique, two-character DOMAIN code that should be used consistently throughout the submission.
History The National Center for Toxicological Research is geographically adjacent to the Pine Bluff Arsenal, and was once an integrated part of the installation.
CVM does not regulate vaccines for animals; these are handled by the United States Department of Agriculture History In 1953, a Veterinary Medical Branch of the FDA was created within the Bureau of Medicine.
GUDID Submission The Final Rule on Unique Device Identifiers also mandates medical device manufacturers to make a submission to the FDA's Global Unique Device Identification Database.
To emphasise the risk of diarrhoea and vomiting caused by food poisoning, the song "When Will I See You Again" by The Three Degrees is played in the background.
During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee (VRBPAC) received media attention as it reviewed COVID-19 vaccines before their approval.
Application The IND application may be divided into the following categories: Preclinical testing consists of animal pharmacology and toxicology studies to assess whether the drug is safe for testing in humans.
Treatment INDs are filed to make a drug available for the treatment of serious or immediately life-threatening conditions prior to FDA approval.
Legacy devices that do not have a previously assigned Basic UDI-DI, they are assigned an EUDAMED-DI for the purpose of registration in EUDAMED.
An EUND approved through this pathway can only be sold to federal, provincial, territorial and municipal governments.
In the years preceding enactment of MDUFMA, the FDA's medical device program suffered a long-term, significant loss of resources that undermined the program's capacity and performance.
As of July 2022, the EU has recognized four UDI-DI issuing agencies: GS1 AISBL; Health Industry Business Communications Council (HIBCC); ICCBBA, and Informationsstelle für Arzneispezialitäten (IFA GmbH).
During the eight years before PDUFA took effect, an average of 24 new drugs were approved each year.
The drug industry claimed that the FDA misinterpreted the section of PDUFA III authorizing user fees when deciding to charge for reviewing 505(b)(2) applications.
Wageningen Food Safety Research (WFSR) is a research institute for food safety, part of Wageningen University & Research (WUR) in the Netherlands.
The NDDR is temporary Government Regulations The NDDR is a confidential database that is used in North America and the United States to help provide the collection of safe plasma donation through plasmapheresis.
This could enable future research within the drug class to mitigate toxic effects through dosing modification, alternative treatments, or potentially develop a new regulatory tool that would assist in future drug safety evaluation.
The Scientific Committee on Food (SCF), established in 1974, was the main committee providing the European Commission with scientific advice on food safety.
coli O157:H7 associated with Jack in the Box restaurants, in which over 600 were sickened and four died from undercooked hamburgers.
continues to manage the National Collection of Industrial, Food and Marine Bacteria under the direction of Dr Samantha Law, the current curator.
This statute amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938 to provide empower the Secretary of Health and Human Services to engage in debarment of individuals convicted of felony crimes that corrupt the drug regulation process.
The director has the rank of deputy director-general and he or she heads the agency and, as such, it directs and represents it.
If you have an objection regarding an observation, or have implemented, or plan to implement, corrective action in response to an observation, you may discuss the objection or action with the FDA representative(s) during the inspection or submit this information to FDA at the address above.
All datasets based on any of the general observation classes share a set of common Identifier variables and Timing variables.
Powell and the International Food Safety Network are a primary source for food safety information during outbreaks and are often quoted in mainstream media reports.
The institute provides laboratory support to the NVWA and relevant ministries in the event of emergencies.
In 1912, Congress responded with the Sherley Amendments, which addressed the perceived lack of enforcement of fraud related to therapeutic claims.
FSS has a vision of a food and drink environment in Scotland that benefits, protects and is trusted by consumers.
The Division of Chemistry started looking into the adulteration of agricultural commodities around 1867, and in 1883 Harvey Washington Wiley was appointed chief chemist.
488 (1911), the United States Supreme Court ruled that the misbranding provisions of the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 did not pertain to false curative or therapeutic statements but only false statements as to the identity of the drug.
The Act mandates reporting requirements by medical device manufacturers regarding adverse safety events and product effectiveness of devices classified as substantially equivalent to Class III medical devices.
The logic of the relationship may relate to the scientific matter of the data, or to its role in the trial.
During the first 15 years after its enactment, the law was never used to debar a generic drug company and the agency has been progressively reducing its debarment of individuals.
Bush administration's desire to "get tough on crime and drugs." As of 2011, four patients continue to receive cannabis from the government under the program.
The Act of Congress transferred the electronic product radiation control provisions established by the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act.
The Swedish Food Agency (Swedish: Livsmedelsverket), formerly the National Swedish Food Administration (Swedish: Statens livsmedelsverk) is a Swedish government agency that answers to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Affairs.
There was overwhelming support for the Agency's policy of basing decisions on scientific evidence, and for this policy to be maintained and developed further.
Food and Drug Administration office for regulatory activities concerning healthcare products which are considered a combinational biological, device, or drug product.
Because both agencies shared a mission in terms of protecting the health and safety of consumers and users, and although each of them had specific areas of action, the truth is that both worked in the field of food.
Controversies over preservatives were very important in the early days of the FDA, where volunteers participated in experimental meals with high doses of the chemicals to determine their toxicity.
After the dissolution of this department in late 2023, it was attached to the Ministry of Social Rights, Consumer Affairs and 2030 Agenda.
The Court held that if someone were to willingly be in charge of a company, and therefore its problems, then he or she willingly accepts the consequences of any illegal practices that his or her company or organization is involved in.
Types There are three different types of new animal drug applications: NADA – A NADA is used to seek approval of a new animal drug.
From secretary to molecular chemist, the Center has an extensive staff that covers every possible aspect of food and nutrition science.
AHVLA had originally been established on 1 April 2011 by a merger of two former agencies, Animal Health and the Veterinary Laboratories Agency.
He said that Food Safety News was created to "fill a void" left by print and broadcast media as budgetary constraints led to "dedicated reporters on the food, health and safety beats...
The FDA was habitually late in evaluating that data, reportedly leaving those parties with inadequate time to react to the review before their next assessment.
Between 2014 and 2017, the FDA stated they did not have enough data to determine whether the REMS program was sufficiently preventing opioid abuse.
This response must be submitted within 15 business days regardless of the number of observations, as of September 2009.
When support from the Scientific Civil Service was withdrawn the collection was transferred to the University of Aberdeen and was supported by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) after recommendations from the Office of Science and Technology (OST).
Sugar beets In 2009–2010, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California was considering a case involving the planting of genetically modified sugar beets.
At this time the company also became an International Depository Authority (IDA) under the Budapest Treaty, and began storing plant seeds, plasmids, fungi and microorganisms that need to be filed alongside patent applications.
The National Donor Deferral Registry, also known as the (NDDR) is a database of individuals who have tested "reactive" for viral agents like human immunodeficiency viruses (HIV), Hepatitis B virus (HBV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV) and are permanently prohibited from donating plasma.
A draft revision, known as Redbook II, was released in 1993 (published in the Federal Register on March 29, 1993, at 58 FR 16536), incorporating public comments and advances in toxicology.
The Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) was borne out of a need to protect communities from alcohol abuse and worked mostly on the local level.
On 25 March 2011 and after the pH1N1 pandemic, amendments were made to the Food and Drug Regulations (FDR) to include a specific regulatory pathway for EUNDs.
coli and Salmonella infections due to bacteria on fresh produce served at restaurants and grocery stores.
References External links Official website Media related to National Center for Toxicological Research at Wikimedia Commons
History SALSA was set up in 2007 by the British Hospitality Association, British Retail Consortium and Food and Drink Federation.
Also legal under the old law was Radithor, a “radium-containing tonic that sentenced users to a slow and painful death.” This, along with the above court cases, caused the FDA to focus on replacing the now outdated “Wiley Act” of 1906.
See also List of United States Supreme Court cases Lists of United States Supreme Court cases by volume List of United States Supreme Court cases by the Burger Court United States v.
Tony Chu attempts to rescue food critic Amelia Mintz and his brother Chow from a prison camp, learning of the existence of vampires.
References External links Food Safety Authority of Ireland website Food Safety Authority of Ireland on X safefood
See also Food Administration Government agencies in Sweden References External links Livsmedelsverket - Swedish Food Agency - Official site
being reassigned or seeing their positions disappear altogether." The site provides daily news coverage of foodborne illness outbreaks and investigations, food recalls, food technology innovations, and victim profiles.
As a guidance document, Redbook 2000 does not create enforceable rights or obligations but represents the FDA's current thinking on safety assessments.
The decision to continue the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act's system of only assessing a generic drug's bioequivalence to its brand name counterpart, rather than confirming efficacy, was highly controversial.
References External links "Health Care: Federal Regulation of Medical Devices--Problems Still To Be Overcome" (PDF).
Synthetic medicines (made in labs instead of natural medicines) and chemicals that altered the growing and processing of food began to appear.
Food Bill 160-2 Food Bill 160-2 was introduced on 26 May 2010 to make some fundamental changes to New Zealand's domestic food regulatory regime.
The International Food Safety Network was replaced with the bites mailing list and website according to a notice on the former's home page.
See also Food safety in New Zealand Food Standards Australia New Zealand Food Act 1981 - New Zealand Food Act 2014 - New Zealand == References ==
Marler is the Managing Partner of Marler Clark, a Seattle, Washington, law firm that specializes in foodborne illness cases.
An International Quality Plasma Program (IQPP) facility is a lab that has agreed to the voluntary standards program of the PPTA.
By having an independent, third party convener, like the Reagan-Udall Foundation, multiple companies can be readily involved, along with toxicologists, oncologists and other scientists from the FDA, National Institutes of Health and academia.
Created in January 1993, as a combination of Powell's interests in science, media and the public following an outbreak of E.
By 1949, the membership had reached 3,000 and it was decided to create an Executive Secretary position and establish national office in Chicago.
Lawrence was named the first Executive Secretary, a position he would hold until 1961 when he was replaced by Calvert L.
When identifying information is matched in the registry, the donation center should not accept a person donation.
Other commitments are commitments to obtain informed consent from the research subjects, to obtain a review of the study by an institutional review board (IRB), and to adhere to the investigational new drug regulations.
Transition Having been established by legislation in January 2015, Food Standards Scotland was launched on 1 April 2015.
The Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA), formerly known as the Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories Agency (AHVLA), is an executive agency of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) of the United Kingdom.
Investigator information on the qualifications of clinical investigators, that is, the professionals (generally physicians) who oversee the administration of the experimental drug to the study subjects.
The agency's main task is to protect the health and welfare of animals, as well as the general public, from disease.
Patent deposits are referenced in the patent application and can be furnished by the IDA on request.
Events Recalls and contamination In February 2005, the agency announced the discovery of the dye Sudan I in Worcester sauce, prompting a mass product recall of over 400 products that used the sauce as a flavouring.
The CFS alleged that RRA had been improperly reviewed by APHIS, arguing that it should be considered a "Plant Pest" under the Plant Protection Act.
Every 2 years in even numbered years, every registered facility would be required to renew its registration between October 1 and December 31.
The Nuclear Institute for Food and Agriculture, known as NIFA, (جوہری ادارہ برائے خوراک و زراعت) is one of four agriculture and food irradiation research institute managed by the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission.
The regulation of eggs is similarly complicated by shared responsibilities between the two agencies.
The FSAI was established on 1 January 1999, with the enactment of the Food Safety Authority of Ireland Act, 1998.
To protect the health of consumers, the agency also inspects these facilities and documents observations on a 483.
Devices and packaging are to be marked with a device identifier ("UDI-DI"), identifying manufacturer and product, and a production identifier ("UDI-PI)", consisting of, e.g., the LOT and/or expiration date.
The Food and Drugs Authority (FDA) operates under the authority granted by Parts 6, 7, and 8 of the Public Health Act, 2012 (Act 851).
CFS's mission is to empower people, support farmers, and protect the earth from the harmful impacts of industrial agriculture through groundbreaking legal, scientific, and grassroots action.
The Court concluded that as a welfare statute, the purpose was to prevent egregious social harm; therefore, the Defendant could be held strictly liable for the crime.
In July 2007, the NZFSA was separated from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to form a new Public Service Department.
The Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology, also known as NIAB, (Urdu: جوہری ادارہ برائے زراعت و حیاتیات) is a Pakistani agriculture and food irradiation national research institute managed by the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC).
A New Animal Drug Application is an American legal terminology, defined in 21 CFR ¶514, after the definition in ¶510 of the term New Animal Drug.
The program is ranked #1 in the nation in federally financed higher education R&D expenditures in agricultural sciences and natural resources conservation by the National Science Foundation for FY 2019.
Army Chemical Corps used the facility for biological warfare research and chemical weapons development until 1969, when President Richard Nixon signed an executive order banning such research from military facilities, and the Army subsequently transferred operation of the site to the FDA.
'Higher Health Institute') , also ISS, is an Italian public institution that, as the leading technical-scientific body of the Italian National Health Service (Servizio Sanitario Nazionale), performs research, trials, control, counseling, documentation and training for public health.
In May 2020, the FDA was recognized by the World Health Organization as a Level Three listed institution.
Within one year of enactment, the law directs the FDA to inspect at least 600 foreign facilities and double those inspections every year for the next five years.
Specific activities After reviewing its handling of the BSE crisis, the European Commission restructured its committees, replacing some and creating new committees.
was created as a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen University Industrial Services (AURIS) in 1982 and the transition to a private company was overseen by Dr Ivan Bousefield, the curator from 1974-1990.
Much of the center's work focuses on animal medications used in food animals to ensure that significant drug residues are not present in the meat or other products from these animals.
The FDA determines as part of the drug approval process that a REMS is necessary, and the drug company develops and maintains the individual program.
Research and Achievements NIAB's research focuses on the development of high-yielding and disease-resistant crop varieties, soil fertility improvement, water management, and food preservation through irradiation.
Williams, M.B.A Deputy Director: Charles Sabatos Safety Management Staff: Jim Zelinsky Division of Planning and Financial Resources Management: Grover G.
Premise Chapter One Cibopathic federal agent Tony Chu is reunited with his old partner turned-cyborg John Colby on a bizarre new case, as a newly discovered fruit takes the duo to a remote island full of secrets, strangeness-and a shadowy killer with a sinister appetite.
The Office of Management provides customer service, guidance, and education on the activities of the center.
However, in 1990, the Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) enacted the Narcotics Drugs Control, Enforcement and Sanctions Law (PNDCL 236), establishing the Narcotics Control Board to combat the growing issue of drug abuse and the international challenges posed by illicit drug trafficking.
Without the publication of the summary, parties in the REMS program must request it using the Freedom of Information Act.
If passed into law and fully implemented, it would replace the Food Act 1981 and the Food Hygiene Regulations 1974.
This minimizes the excessive importing country requirements that may be imposed but which do not go to food safety.
All this from the scope of action of the powers of the General State Administration and with the cooperation of other Public Administrations and interested sectors.
Park failed to comply with a mandate from the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drugs, and Cosmetics Act, to keep conditions within his warehouses legally sanitary.
Redbook 2000 represents the final revision, reflecting updates in scientific knowledge, technological advancements, and harmonization with international standards while maintaining U.S.
The advisory body is the Advisory Council, a collective organ composed by representatives from the General State Administration, from the Autonomous Communities and from those actors of the food chain who are interested, including consumers.
Extension The 1914 Smith-Lever Act provided federal support for land-grant institutions to offer educational programs to enhance the application of useful and practical information beyond their campuses through cooperative extension efforts with states and local communities.
These standards will be met by implementing the following components: Importer accountability For the first time, importers have an explicit responsibility to verify that their foreign suppliers have adequate preventive controls in place to ensure that the food they produce is safe.
Along with the Nuclear Institute for Food and Agriculture (NIFA), the NIAB reports directly to the Islamabad-based PAEC Biological Science Directorate.
The guidance supports the FDA's statutory mandate under the FD&C Act (Sections 201(s) and 201(t)) to ensure ingredients are safe, defined as providing "reasonable certainty of no harm" (21 CFR §§ 70.3, 170.3).
Each donation center is responsible for checking the NDDR prior to donation and uploading any positive or reactive tests for each donor.
In the world of chicken fighting, Poyo is almost undefeatable, making his owners absurdly rich, and more often than not dead, as he passes from owner to owner as one is killed by the other, as Tony Chu aims to track down the latest murderers to have stolen him.
They were invented by the Food and Drug Administration in the US in 2016 to support their work, with the creation of four CERSIs.
The UK launched equivalent bodies (Centres of Excellence in Regulatory Science and Innovation) in 2025 to work with the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
The Spanish Agency for Food Safety and Nutrition (AESAN) is a regulatory agency of the Government of Spain responsible for promoting food safety and for providing guarantees and objective information to consumers and economic agents of the Spanish agrifood industry.
In advance of the legislation being finalised the FSA in Scotland moved their office to The Pilgrim House, in the centre of Aberdeen.
The commission was required to consult the SCF in the cases laid down by EU legislation, but could also decide to consult it on any other matter relating to food safety or consumer health, in conjunction with other committees.
Debarred individuals are effectively blacklisted from the pharmaceutical industry, as they cannot participate in development of drugs submitted for approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
History The official opening of the ISS, called Institute of Public Health (Istituto di Sanità Pubblica), took place on April 21, 1934.
(Establishment of accreditation program due 2 years after enactment) Visual inspection During an unannounced inspection by the FDA, a visual inspection will be conducted.
Review times A major PDUFA goal is for the FDA to review and provide a ruling on applications within one year unless significant changes are made to the application during the last three months of the review cycle.
This 7–1 decision in favor of Monsanto Company declared the injunction against RRA invalid, allowing the sale and planting of the product; it did not, however, restore the deregulated status of the crop.
All of the initial drugs approved for the treatment of HIV/AIDS were approved through accelerated approval mechanisms.
The FSAI Act empowers the Authority to issue closure orders and prohibition orders on food businesses which do not comply with food safety and hygiene requirements.
The construction of the main building in Rome, designed by architect Giuseppe Amendola, started on July 6, 1931 and it was financed by the American Rockefeller Foundation.
Often the Findings general class is the best choice for general observational data collected as measurements or responses to questions.
Policy recommendations and decisions, and the reasons for them, will be publicly available via the website.
The center controls domestically with approximately 50,000 food establishments and 3,500 cosmetic firms.
Included were examples of harmful drugs, including Banbar, a “cure” for diabetes, protected under the 1906 law, and Lash Lure, an eyelash dye that caused many of its women users to go blind.
The findings triggered the 2013 meat adulteration scandal, which involved several major food retailers and suppliers in the United Kingdom, France and other European countries.
Established in 1971, the Center conducts scientific research to provide reliable data for Food & Drug Administration decision-making and develops innovative tools and approaches that support its public health mission.
It was mandated by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as modified by Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 on 27 September 2007, and is the analogue of the New Drug Application for humans.
It has the task of protecting consumer interest by working for safe food of good quality, fair practices in the food trade, and healthy eating habits.
Food and Drug Administration Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) List of FDA-issued 483s from 2000 through January 2013 (Source: FDAzilla) Archived 2013-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
The Act was amended to prohibit false and fraudulent claims of health benefits but enforcement under the amendment required proof of fraudulent intent, a difficult standard.
A generic new animal drug is a copy of an approved new animal drug for which patents or other periods of exclusivity are near expiration.
International Food Safety Network's emphasis is on the integration of public perceptions of food safety risks into traditional food safety risk analysis, and engaging the public on the nature of food-related risks and benefits.
In the same vein, in December 2021 the Cortes Generales approved an amendment of the Food Chain Act.
The executive director, freely appointed by the minister among the senior civil servants with experience on food safety or nutrition.
Additionally, conflicts protections are required for each individual project the Foundation undertakes.
The research programs support approximately 350 full-time equivalent faculty members in 16 academic departments on UF's Gainesville campus and at 13 research and education centers around the state.
Health Canada recognizes that there are circumstances in which sponsors cannot reasonably provide substantial evidence demonstrating the safety and efficacy of a therapeutic product for NDS as there are logistical or ethical challenges in conducting the appropriate human clinical trials.
The Chairperson of the Advisory Council is the Secretary-General for Agrarian Resources and Food Security and the Deputy Chair is the Director-General for Food, both officials from the Ministry.
During each meeting, the SCF members were required to declare if they had any commercial or other interests in the items being discussed.
Online programs CALS offers three Bachelor of Science degree programs in UF Online: entomology & nematology, environmental management in agriculture and natural resources, and microbiology and cell science.
Elizabeth Fleming Stier Award (1997) – Humanitarian and unselfish dedication that results in significant contributions to the well-being in the food industry, academia, general public, or students.
History CBER's history began with a horse named Jim, a vaccine-contamination scandal that prompted the Biologics Control Act of 1902.
It was renamed to broaden its scope beyond direct additives and color additives, and it adopted an electronic format for online accessibility, with chapters designed as stand-alone resources.
Organization chart The Agency is structured through an executive body and an advisory body: The executive body of the agency is the Director of the Food Information and Control Agency.
References External links US CERSIs: M-CERSI, University of Maryland Johns Hopkins CERSI UCSF-Stanford CERSI Yale University-Mayo Clinic CERSI Triangle CERSI UK CERSIs: CERSI AI InSilicoUK RADIANT CERSI
658 (1975) is available from: CourtListener Findlaw Google Scholar Justia Library of Congress Oyez (oral argument audio)
On July 26, 2011, it won two 2010 Harvey Awards (Best New Series and Best New Talent) for the volume, and was nominated for two 2010 Eagle Awards.
The Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act (MDUFA) authorizes the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) to collect user fees from medical device manufacturers.
The operations and research began in 1970, and it was officially inaugurated by Munir Ahmad Khan, then Chairman of the PAEC, on 6 April 1972.
Established by the Food (Scotland) Act 2015, Food Standards Scotland has taken over the responsibilities of the UK-wide organisation, the Food Standards Agency, in Scotland.
Activities The Reagan-Udall Foundation collaborates with FDA in several high-priority scientific areas identified as part of the agency's innovation strategy.
In some cases, the guidance documents have the force of regulation because they are written to clarify existing rules.
In 2012, the Food and Drugs Board transitioned into the Food and Drugs Authority (FDA) with the enactment of the Public Health Act, 2012 (Act 851).
In 1992, the PNDC separated the regulation of non-narcotic drugs from the practice of pharmacy, leading to the enactment of the Food and Drugs Law, 1992 (PNDC 305B).
See also Wageningen Environmental Research (WENR) Wageningen Marine Research (WMR) Wageningen Social & Economic Research (WSER) References External links Website Wageningen Food Safety Research
In 1941 the Institute of Public Health (Istituto di Sanità Pubblica) assumed its present name of the National Institute of Health (Istituto Superiore di Sanità).
He received his Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree from The Ohio State University and a Master's in Public Health from Johns Hopkins University.
The Food Safety Authority of Ireland (FSAI) (Irish: Údarás Sábháilteachta Bia na hÉireann – USBE) is the statutory body responsible for ensuring food produced, distributed or marketed in Ireland complies with food safety and hygiene standards, best practice codes and legal requirements.
Provisions The Generic Drug Enforcement Act was passed in response to scandals of generic drug manufacturers bribing FDA officials to expedite drug approval using falsified data.
Blood and blood products activities are managed through the Office of Blood Research and Review (OBRR) Human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products (HCT/Ps), except vascularized organs for transplantation and the associated blood vessels.
The FD&C Act specifies that one-third of the total fee revenue is to be derived from application fees, one-third from establishment fees, and one-third from product fees (see section 736(b)(2) of the FD&C Act).
These include food safety, novel approaches in the development of therapies to fight tuberculosis, and methodologies for post-market product surveillance under a program called Innovation in Medical Evidence Development and Surveillance (IMEDS).
The association was established in 1975 under the name IFT Student Division, it was renamed in 1984 to its current name.
Bloodsucker Continuing off of his rescue attempt, Tony Chu encounters his nemesis The Vampire for the first time.
European Union The EU acted to adopt UDI and on April 5, 2017, under the Medical Devices Regulation (MDR) and In-vitro Diagnostic Regulation (IVDR), but adoption has been postponed to 2021; see Medical Device Regulation.
Collaborations NIAB collaborates with various national and international organizations, including the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), to enhance its research capabilities and stay updated with global advancements in agricultural biotechnology.
All of these committees were then overseen by the Scientific Steering Committee (formerly the Multi-disciplinary Scientific Committee), which also handled some specific issues such as BSE.
A Center of Excellence in Regulatory Science and Innovation (CERSI) is a type of research centre focused on regulatory science to support innovation.
Even after completion of the rulemaking process, it was estimated that time would be required for the FDA to become fully equipped to enforce the new laws.
It is not possible to map the data from EDC DBMS to SDTM standards until the clinical trial completes.
3095 legislation was passed by the 101st Congressional session and enacted by the 41st President of the United States George H.
It conducts work across Great Britain on behalf of Defra, the Scottish Government and the Welsh Government.
Cliffy or Cliffie may refer to: People Cliffy Drysdale, former professional tennis player Cliffie Grinde, former member of the Norwegian folk rock band Vamp Cliffie Hodgson, player coach of Broadstreet Rugby Club and point-scoring record holder at Coventry R.F.C.
The latter structure is rare in Francophone Cameroon, however, where a third structure prevails: First surname, second surname, forename (e.g.
See also Demographics of Afghanistan Afghan (ethnonym) Name of Afghanistan Afghan diaspora Notes References Sources Fikrat, Mohammad Asef; Umar, Suheyl (2008).
1785), African-American slave accused of treason Billy Sleeth (born 1979), American soccer player Billy Smart (disambiguation), several people Billy Smiley (born 1957), American Christian music producer, songwriter, and musician Billy Smith (disambiguation), several people Billy Smyth (c.
Nell is the name of: People Given name Nell (artist) (born 1975), Australian artist Nell Angloma (born 2006), French basketball player Nell Arthur (1837–1880), American First Lady Nell Ballantyne (1898–1959), Scottish actress Nell V.
The most likely theory is that it originates from griego ('Greek'), used in the same way as the English phrase "it's Greek to me".
Theophilus Grantly, in Anthony Trollope's novel Barchester Towers Theophilus Msimangu, in Alan Paton's Cry, the Beloved Country Theophilus North, title character in Thornton Wilder's last novel (1973) Dr.
Dieudonné is a French name normally meaning "Gift of God", and thus similar to the Greek-derived Theodore, Hebrew-derived Matthew, or the Spanish Diosdado.
Parsi, a name occasionally used by speakers of Indo-Aryan languages of northern India to refer to speech forms they do not understand.
The title of a book, or any other published text or work of art, is a name for the work which is usually chosen by the author.
Adoptions from Romance Other languages adopted the week together with the Latin (Romance) names for the days of the week in the colonial period.
There is a considerable emphasis on localisation and domestication instead of phonetic imitation of the English pronunciation.
It also found use in the intermittent exercise Gringo-Gaucho between Argentine Naval Aviation and US Navy aircraft carriers.
of philological sciences Katy Chokaev connected ghalghai with the name of the God of Sun/Sky Gal (ГӀал, Ghal) of the Vainakh religion.
Keohane (born 1940), American political theorist and former college president Maria Anna Mozart, nicknamed "Nannerl" (1751–1829), Austrian musician and elder sister of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart See also Nannerl Notenbuch, a practice book used by Maria Anna Mozart as a child Divertimento No.
In most Portuguese-speaking countries typically two surnames are used, sometimes three or four, typically some or none inherited from the mother and some or all inherited from the father, in that order.
The Martins in Skye are traditionally associated with Clan Donald, and the Lothians were home to a powerful "de St Martin" family from the 12th century.
The archaic Latin form Māvors () is seen, but only very rarely, in English, though the adjectives Mavortial and Mavortian mean 'martial' in the military rather than planetary sense.
It can be a diminutive of names that begin with J, most commonly Joseph, Joshua, Joe, Josephine and Johanna.
In 1889, North Dakota and South Dakota were holding statehood conventions and demanded reduction of the Great Sioux Reservation, which was established by the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868.
There are numerous forms of the name in various languages; these were formerly often simply translated as "John" in English but are increasingly left in their native forms (see sidebar).
Alongside Leslie, his Toward a Theory of Nicknames: A Case for Socio-Onomastics, published in the journal Names, established a number of crucial theoretical concerns.
The Mandarin-translated names do not only differ from their Cantonese counterparts but also among Mandarin-speaking regions, e.g.
The "H" prefix before the ethnonym and country name appeared in official Latin language Hungarian documents, royal seals and coins since the reign of king Béla III (r.
In DAI, the Serbian hinterland is called "baptized Serbia", while Ras is only mentioned as a border town.
Ike, a nickname for the main probe (Isaac Newton) from the mockumentary Alien Planet Ike, the horse in the 2006 film Charlotte's Web Ike Boone, recurring character in John Grisham's junior novels.
It is most likely derived from the Middle English form of the Old English given name "Cada", which itself is derived from a number of Brittonic names beginning with "Catu", meaning "battle".
Jamie, a character in the Street Fighter video game franchise Jamie Clapton, in the soap opera Doctors Jamie Dutton, a main character in the Paramount Network original television series Yellowstone.
Mars is also the basis of the name of the month of March (from Latin Martius mēnsis 'month of Mars'), as well as of Tuesday (Latin dies Martis 'day of Mars'), where the old Anglo-Saxon god Tíw was identified as the Anglo-Saxon equivalent to Mars by Interpretatio germanica.
A new governmental tradition of English-to-Cantonese name translation for British officials was thus born.
Edmund “Birdy” Sweeney (1931–1999), Irish actor and comedian Jasmine “Birdy” van den Bogaerde, born 1996, British singer, songwriter and musician Evelyn Byrd “Byrdie” Bell, born 1985, American actress Byrdie Green (1936–2008), American jazz and R&B singer == Notes ==
For instance, Hong Kong media observe the Cantonese name translated by the Consulate-General and call former Prime Minister Theresa May 文翠珊 or Màhn Cheui Sāan, meaning "refined" for 文, "jade" for 翠, and "coral" for 珊.
In English, the planet Mars is named after Mars, the Roman god of war, an association made because of its red color, which suggests blood.
Its ultimate source is Proto-Indo-European *médʰyos – compare Avestan maiδya, Sanskrit मध्य (madhya) and Latin medius.
Manuel is a masculine given name originating in the Hebrew name Immanuel (עִמָּנוּאֵל‎), which means "God with us." It was reportedly brought from the Byzantine Empire (as Μανουήλ) to Western Europe, mainly Germany, Portugal and Spain, where it has been used since at least the 13th century.
The battle, which resulted in the defeat of US forces, was the most significant action of the Great Sioux War of 1876.
priesa to prisa), there is no perfect analogy for the second, save in Old French (Gregoire to Grigoire to Gringoire).
Countries decide for themselves the division(s) to which they wish to belong; some belong to more than one division.
Ignatius "Iggy" Frome, in the TV show New Amsterdam Jim "Iggy" Ignatowski, from the TV series Taxi Iggy Iguana, a main character in the Canadian children's TV series Under the Umbrella Tree Iggy Koopa, one of the Koopalings in the Super Mario Bros.
5 and from 1968 at the Institute of Language and Literature of the Academy of Sciences of the Estonian SSR.
Fitzgerald (1863–1950), known as "Honey Fitz", American politician and grandfather of President John F.
Drower had interpreted it in reference to Zahreil, but arguing that Zahreil never left the World of Darkness.
1560–1613), Iranian general and statesman of Georgian origin Surname Javad Allahverdi, Iranian football player See also Alaverdyan Allahverdiyev == References ==
Some commentators note that the name has risen in use for girls along with other names of a similar style that all exude cuteness and promote enjoyment, perhaps in reaction to serious times.
Morphology The Chechen linguist, doctor of philological sciences Katy Chokaev, analyzed the internal structure of the ethnonym.
Manny Pardo, a hard-boiled detective in the game Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number (based on serial killer Manny Pardo) Manuel Alberto Javier Alejandro "Manny" Delgado, a character from the ABC TV sitcom Modern Family See also Isaiah 7:14 List of names referring to El == References ==
Nine copies of the document are known, of which the original Golenischeff copy is the most complete.
Methodologically speaking, socio-onomastics focuses on synchronic variation of names over time and space - why are some names given and others not, why are some so popular, why are some remembered by or applied to certain groups of people or places?
Ethnologue assigns it the ISO 639-3 code [prd], but Glottolog considers it spurious and a duplicate of the Zoroastrian Dari language [gbz].
As such the name is derived ultimately from the Etruscan language family name Egnat, the meaning of which is unknown.
The concept of "hypostasis" functions as a kind of conceptual inverse for terms which may have originated as personal names, and have linguistically evolved to become common terms for general concepts and qualities.
Traditionally a masculine name, it can be diminutive form of James or, more rarely, other names and is of Scottish English origin.
In the fall, people split into smaller bands to facilitate hunting to procure meat for the long winter.
The French developed the method of putting the term by which the person is referred in small capital letters.
Gil Shannon, the main character of the Sniper Elite novel series written by Scott McEwen Gil Nexdor, a Johnny Test character See also Gill (name)
Since the mid-20th century it has been used as an occasional feminine name particularly in the United States.
The intensive use of the Gäu regions for crops has displaced the originally wooded countryside (→climax vegetation – in contrast with the steppe heath theory and disputed megaherbivore hypothesis).
It often connotes the personification of typically elemental powers, such as wind and fire, or human life, fertility, and death.
The meaning is usually rendered in reference to the god as "of Mars" or "of war/warlike" ("martial").
Parsi has been used as a name for several languages of Iran and South Asians, some of them spurious: Parsi, an alternative spelling of Farsi, the Persian language.
Since 2006 Elena Berezovich has also been a research fellow of the Russian Language Institute in Moscow.
From this come technical terms such as areology, as well as the (rare) adjective Arean and the star name Antares.
1968), American indie musician Ash Carter (1954–2022), American physicist, professor, and former U.S.
All South Slavic ethnic groups had some Romance ingredient, although there is no evidence that all or most Serbs in Croatia were of Vlach origin.
James Skipper Jr., Professor of Sociology, focused on the study of nicknames within typically American cultural groups: baseball players and jazz musicians.
Virginia “Birdie” Fair Vanderbilt (1875–1935), an American socialite, hotel builder/owner, philanthropist, owner of Fair Stable, a Thoroughbred racehorse operation, and a member of the prominent Vanderbilt family by marriage.
Horrible's Sing-Along Blog Penny, the niece of the titular character in the 1980s animated series Inspector Gadget Penny, from the Papa Louie video games Penny, in the animated television series The Mighty B!
It then declined in popularity but has since increased in usage and has ranked among the one thousand most used names for newborn American girls since 2021.
The earliest evidence for this new system is a Pompeiian graffito referring to 6 February (ante diem viii idus Februarias) of the year 60 CE as dies solis ("Sunday").
Billy Dardis (born 1995), Irish rugby union player Billy Dare (1927–1994), English footballer Billy Dargin (c.
Theophilus Tanner, from the Deathlands series of books Theophilus Thistle, in a noted tongue-twister Theophilus P.
(born 1947) Iggy Azalea, stage name of Australian rapper Amethyst Amelia Kelly (born 1990) Iggy Arroyo (1950–2012), Filipino politician Iggy Clarke (born 1952), Irish retired hurler Jarome Iginla (born 1977), Canadian National Hockey League player Ralph Ignatowski (1926–1945), U.S.
They were sent by Alexis of Russia to Georgia, when it so happened on their way back they were ambushed and attacked by the Kalkans.
1612–1648), a prince of the Georgiam Kingdom of Kakheti As a surname: David Datuna (born 1974), Georgian-American artist
Köy is the word for "village" in Western Oghuz languages that are geographically western, such as Turkish, Ottoman Turkish and Crimean Tatar.
7th century), Byzantine medical writer Artists Theophilus Cibber (1703–1758), English actor, playwright, author, son of the actor-manager Colley Cibber Theophilus Clarke (1776?–1831), English painter Theophilos Hatzimihail (c.
1410–1461), French poet Franc Noir de la Haute-Saône, a traditional French variety of red wine grape
Jorunn Jacobsen Buckley interprets a passage in the Qulasta referring to Simat Hayyi coming forth from the World of Darkness and eventually being raised to the Place of Light as referring to Ruha, noting that E.
1950s), American clown "Cliffie", a student at Radcliffe College, Cambridge, Massachusetts Other uses Cliffy (film), a 2013 telemovie about Cliff Young's 1983 ultramarathon run "Cliffy", an episode of the TV series The Rookies Cliffy Island, Victoria, Australia See also Cliff
Within alphabetic lists and catalogs, however, the family name is generally put first, with the given name(s) following and separated by a comma (e.g.
According to the Egyptologist Antonio Loprieno, the word was likely pronounced Satepna-rīꜥa ([satʰepʰna'riːʕa]).
In: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Statistics Division (ed.): Manual for the standardization of geographical names.
The word was used for Swiss, German, Polish, Italian and other immigrants, but since the Italian immigrants were the larger group, the word primarily referred to Italians in the lunfardo argot.
Manuel (1849–1918), American politician Jacques-Antoine Manuel (1775–1827), French politician Jerry Manuel (born 1953), American baseball manager John Manuel (writer), baseball writer and scout John G.
In Judaeo-Spanish (Ladino), which is mainly based on a medieval version of Spanish, the five days of Monday–Friday closely follow the Spanish names.
Written sources called Magyars "Ungarians" prior to the Hungarian conquest of the Carpathian Basin in 895–6 when they lived on the steppes of Eastern Europe, specifically: Ungri by Georgius Monachus in 837, Ungri in Annales Bertiniani of 862, and Ungari in Annales iuvavenses of 881.
These regions typically have fertile soils resulting from depositions of loess (an exception is the Arme Gäue ["Poor Gäus"] of the Baden-Württemberg Gäu).
1946), Congolese politician and diplomat Dieudonné Gnammankou, Beninean historian Dieudonné de Gozon (fl.
There are political disputes regarding this: there are members of the non-Pashtun ethnicities of Afghanistan that reject the term Afghan being applied to them, and there are Pashtuns in Pakistan that wish to have the term Afghan applied to them.
Wales An Anglo-Norman knight named Robert Fitz Martin, born in the late 11th century, settled in England's West Country, on lands inherited from a grandfather, and later participated in the invasions of Wales, where he was awarded the barony of Cemaes, located between Fishguard and Cardigan.
Ash is both a given name (commonly a shortened version of Ashton, Ashley, Asher, and Ashlyn) and a surname.
Riki Honoo, a character in the tokusatsu series Kousoku Sentai Turboranger Riki, a character in the tokusatsu series Chouriki Sentai Ohranger Riki, a Nopon and playable character in Xenoblade Chronicles See also Rikki Ricky (given name)
Alicia Shepard stated that there is a disagreement between Hispanics and non-Hispanics about its offensiveness.
Simpson (1882–1974), staff member in the United States Senate Jessie Landale Cumberland (1861–1935), British governess and suffragette Jessie Lemonier (born 1997), American football player Jessie Loutit (born 1988), Canadian rower Jessie M.
See also Oisc of Kent (pronounced “Ash”) (died 512), semi-legendary king of Kent Asch (surname) Ash (disambiguation) Ashe (disambiguation) Ashe (name)
Early life and education Jaak Simm was born in Tartu, Estonia, the son of Elmar Simm (1904–1972) and Õie Simm (née Tillmann, 1912–2002).
De Administrando Imperio, written by Byzantine emperor Constantine VII in the mid-10th century, tells a version of the early history of the Serbs.
390 BC), Chinese philosopher In fiction Mo (Monica Testa), lead character of Alison Bechdel's strip Dykes to Watch Out For See also Moe (given name) Mo (disambiguation) == References ==
The name is popular in Spanish, Portuguese, German, French, Romanian, Greek (Latinised as Manolis), Polish, and Dutch.
(1917–1945), American MLB player and World War II Army bomber pilot Billy Sowden (1930–2010), English professional footballer Billy Spanoulis (born 1982), Greek NBA player and coach Billy Spears (1877–1957), Australian VFL player Billy Spence (c.
Cade, American zoologist Fictional characters Jubal Cade, in a series of novels by Angus Wells Sam Cade, protagonist of Cade's County, an American television series starring Glenn Ford the title character of Gunner Cade, an American science fiction novel by Cyril M.
The name of the day is also related to the Latin name diēs Mārtis, "Day of Mars" (the Roman god of war).
Conference The United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names is a periodic international conference organised by the United Nations Statistical Commission, the central purpose of which is to facilitate the standardization of national geographical names.
series See also Iggy's Reckin' Balls, a game for the Nintendo 64 Italian Greyhound, a dog breed nicknamed the Iggy
The Latin variant Ungarii used for them by Widukind of Corvey in his The Deeds of the Saxons of the 10th century is most probably patterned after Middle High German Ungarn.
He maintains a clear distinction between these "Afghans" and other ethnic groups residing in the region, such as the Tajiks (sedentary Persian-speakers), Uzbeks, and Hazaras, whom he identifies as having separate linguistic and historical origins.
Government and politics Mo Brooks (born 1954), American politician from Alabama Mo Mowlam (1949–2005), British politician Mo Udall (1922–1998), U.S.
354–364), Arian bishop, also called "the Ethiopian", probably from the Maldive Islands Patriarch Theophilus (disambiguation) Theophilus I of Alexandria (died c.
Nannerl is an Austro-Bavarian Upper German language diminutive for the name Anna that is also in use as an independent given name.
– 1495), voivode of Wallachia as Vlad IV, half-brother of Vlad the Impaler Vlad cel Tânăr (1494–1512), voivode of Wallachia as Vlad V Vlad VI Înecatul (c.
According to the 1964 Constitution of Afghanistan, all Afghans citizens are equal in rights and obligations before the law.
960s), Byzantine general People with the surname Michael Theodoulou See also Abdullah, an Arabic name with the same meaning Obadiah, a Hebrew name with the same meaning Theodul Pass Theodul Glacier Theodula of Anazarbus Théodule == References ==
Alternately, it may be a hypocoristic form of the Slavic name Vladimir (although the normative nickname is Vova).
Professor of the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS), corresponding member of the RAS (elected in 2016).
A book with pages is not a scroll, but a codex, a stack of pages bound together through binding on one edge.
It is often short for Melech, Melike, Melvyn, Melvin, Amelia, Melfyn, Melanie, Melania, Melika, Melhem, Melina, Melinda, Melody, Melissa, Melita, Melitta, Melantha, Melanthe, Melvina, Melchior, Melindro, or Melville.
1394–1397), voivode (prince) of Wallachia Vlad II Dracul (before 1395 – 1448), voivode of Wallachia Vlad the Impaler (1428/31 – 1476/77), voivode of Wallachia as Vlad III, inspiration for the character Count Dracula Vlad Călugărul (before 1425?
In descriptive linguistics, the term was first introduced by Leonard Bloomfield to account for uses of synsemantic words as autosemantic in sentences such as I'm tired of your ifs and buts.
Origin At the Third United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names held in August/September 1977 at Athens, gathering and dissemination of toponymic information was discussed.
It may refer to: Avdo Humo (1914–1983), Bosnian communist politician Avdo Jabučica (died 1878), Ottoman Bosnian blacksmith Avdo Kalajdžić (born 1959), Bosnian football manager and former player Avdo Karabegović Hasanbegov (1878–1900), Bosnian poet S.
Similarly Dutch donderdag, German Donnerstag ('thunder's day'), Finnish torstai, and Scandinavian torsdag ('Thor's day').
Senator from Rhode Island, great grandson of Elbridge Edith Stuyvesant Gerry (1873–1958), American philanthropist and wife of Peter Elbridge T.
See also Gau (territory) – also gives the etymology and language history of Gäu Gäu – regions with the name Natural regions referred to as Gäu plateaus: Neckar and Tauber Gäu Plateaus Gäu Plateaus in the Main Triangle Werra Gäu Plateaus Gäuboden Altsiedelland | Altsiedel landscape
In some countries, such as France, or countries previously part of the former Soviet Union, the comma may be dropped and the swapped form of the name be uttered as such, perceived as a mark of bureaucratic formality.
Pronunciation In Akkadian records, the name (referring to Ramesses II) is rendered in cuneiform script as šá-te-ep-na-ri/e-a.
(Hebrew: יְדִידְיָה, romanized: Yəḏīḏyāh) is both a given name and a surname, the original Hebrew of Jedediah.
Margie Cutler, recurring character in the first season of the TV series M*A*S*H See also Margy Marji
The term is also often used in the English language (and appears in some dictionaries) for a person or thing related to Afghanistan, although some have expressed the opinion that this usage is incorrect.
Scandinavia Martin is common as a given name in all three Scandinavian countries, and is a typically a top-ranking name in popularity, on any given year.
After defending her habilitation thesis (the Russian degree of Doktor nauk) Russian Toponymy from an Ethnolinguistic Perspective in 1999, she became professor of the Philological Department of the Ural State University (now Ural Federal University).
1927 – 1992), Gaelic footballer from Northern Ireland Iggy Katona (1916–2003), American stock car racer Iggy O'Donnell (1876 – c.
Datuna may refer to: Datuna (village), a village in Dagestan, Russia Datuna Church, 10th century Georgian church in Russia As a given name: David Rakviashvili, former Secretary of the National Security Council of Georgia Prince David of Kakheti (c.
In linguistics, a hypostasis (from the Greek word ὑπόστασις meaning foundation, base or that which stands behind) is a relationship between a name and a known quantity, as a cultural personification (i.e.
1875–1955), gusle player and oral poet from Sandžak Avdo Spahić (born 1998), Bosnian-German footballer Avdo Sumbul (1884–1915), Serb Muslim editor and national activist Avdo Palić (1958–1995), Bosnian military officer
Mo may be a nickname for Maura, Maureen, Maurice, Marek, Monica, Morris, Mohammed, Moses, Mortimer, or other given names.
To give some examples from Nannerl's time: her little brother was addressed as "Wolfgangerl"; Joseph Haydn as a child was "Sepperl" (second syllable), Haydn's 16-year-old pupil Josepha von Genzinger was "Peperl".
It is a loanword from Persian gūy (or probably more likely kūy), which originally means "path, street".
It has been in use since at least the 1800s in the United States both as a nickname for various formal names such as Elizabeth and as a formal name.
The name Simat Hayyi ("Life's Treasure"), along with the name Niṭufta ("Drop", sometimes also translated as "Cloud"), are names used for the consort of Yawar Ziwa or the Great Mana in the World of Light.
Amenmose, Amenmoses, Amenmesses or Amenmesse was an Egyptian name, found during the Late Bronze Age.
The name is among the most commonly given names in the Anglophone, Arabic, European, Latin American, Iranian, and Turkic countries.
In the south German language (of the Alemannic-speaking area, or in Switzerland), a gäu (German pronunciation: [ɡɔʏ]) landscape (gäulandschaft) refers to an area of open, level countryside.
Amenemope, also Amenemopet, Amenemipet or Amunemopet (ỉmn-m-ỉp3.t, Greek: αμενωφις; “Amun in Luxor”) is an Ancient Egyptian name.
Many Asian-American women were named after journalist Connie Chung in the 1980s even though the name was not otherwise popular at the time.
HE SAID:—What follows is a series of 610 individual entities separated into a number of discrete categories.
Scholars have argued that the "degree of order" within the text "can be exaggerated" but rubrics are used throughout to mark divisions.
In Spanish, Gil (Spanish pronunciation: [xil]) is the equivalent of English Giles, and as such a common baptismal name honouring Saint Giles.
Croatian nationalist historiography (including Ustashe propaganda) claim that the settlers were not Serbs, but ethnic Vlachs, thus implying that Serbs of Croatia are not Serbs.
Origins The name John is a theophoric name originating from the Hebrew name יוֹחָנָן‎ (Yôḥānān), or in its longer form יְהוֹחָנָן‎ (Yəhôḥānān), meaning "God has been gracious".
Radio Voice of little Ashford Flying Club, an unseen character from the 2001 television film Hotel!, played by Peter Sallis Surname People Abraham Joseph Ash (c.
This is true both when the title is written in or on the work in question, and when mentioned in other writing.
Gradually the concept took hold—Homer is a complicated case—but authorship of books, all of which were —or were believed to be— non-fiction, was not the same as, since the Western Renaissance, writing a novel.
These guides recommend that the titles of shorter or subsidiary works, such as articles, chapters, and poems, be placed written within quotation marks, like: "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" is a poem by Robert Frost.
Notable people with the name include: Billy & Louie, British contestant on The Voice UK series 13 Billy the Artist (1964–2022), American artist and writer Billy the Axeman (active c.
It is often a pet form (hypocorism) of Concetta, Constance, Cornelia, Cornelius, Conor, Conrad, Constanza, Concepcion/Conception, Consuela, Consuelo, or Conner.
In the United States, it is currently the 97th most popular baby name and 340th most popular male give name overall.
Elena Berezovich is head of the Ural Toponymy Expedition, executive director of the Russian Onomasticon Project, member of the Ethnolinguistic commission of the International Committee of Slavists, editor-in-chief of the journal Questions of Onomastics, founded by her university mentor Prof.
The term originated in the area of Concepción in Chile from the Mapuche language word we-inka, meaning new-Inca.
Italy In Italy, Martin (pronounced [marˈtiŋ]) is a rather common surname in Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, and Piedmont.
1971), Chinese businesswoman Joey Wong (born 1967), Taiwanese former actress and singer Joey Wong (born 1990), Hong Kong singer Joey Yung (born 1980), Hong Kong singer and actress Fictional people with the name Joey Joey Boy Thompson, in the 1965 UK comedy war film Joey Boy, played by Harry H.
The term is attested since the late 12th century, but in historiography, the early medieval Serbian Principality is sometimes also called Raška (Rascia), erroneously (and anachronistically).
External links Biographies of the Ural State University Some publications (in Russian) of Elena Berezovich on the Folklore and Post-Folklore site Results of Elections-2016 to the RAS (in Russian)
The English form is from Middle English Ioon, Ihon, Iohn, Jan (mid-12c.), itself from Old French Jan, Jean, Jehan (Modern French Jean), from Medieval Latin Johannes, an altered form of Late Latin Ioannes.
They fought the US Army in the Sioux Wars and defeated the 7th Cavalry Regiment at the Battle of Little Big Horn.
The meaning of köy within the concept of an open village contrasts with that of the word kasaba, which refers to a small town.
'Treasure of Life', Modern Mandaic pronunciation: [siˈmɑt ˈhejji]), the feminine personification of life, is an uthra (angel or guardian) from the World of Light who is married to Yawar Ziwa.
The broad geographical footprint of the use of Maidan in toponymy, from Central Europe to South-East Asia, is a reflection of the Turkish rule in these areas.
195) Theophilus the Deacon, martyr from Libya Theophilus (bishop of the Goths), first known Gothic bishop, participant of the First Council of Nicaea in 325 Theophilos the Indian (fl.
It has frequently been used in reference to the secret languages of some social groups, for example that of the Bazigar people of north-west India.
It is an administrative/literary categorization of 610 entities organized hierarchically, rather than a list of words (glossary).
Toponyms with the word köy apparently came into use only after the end of the Seljuk period (1037–1194).
Some tribes had a dramatic loss of population: the Yankton Sioux Tribe fell to only 1,000 members living on the reservation in the 1950s; the Santee Sioux Reservation lost 60 percent of its population (by 1962, only 2,999, mostly elderly people remained).
Huinca or wingka is an exonym used by indigenous Mapuche to refer to non-Mapuche, white Chileans and Argentines.
From 1971 to 1981 he was a junior researcher in the toponymy group, and from 1976 to 1981 a senior researcher in the toponymy group of the dialect section.
In Russian sources, "Ghalghai" first becomes known in the second half of the 16th century, in the form of "Kalkans/Kolkans", "Kalkan people".
Research can be contemporary, with data collected through surveys and ethnographical inquiry of modern societies and communities, or historical, based on historical written sources.
1932–1937), English footballer Billy Coutu (1892–1977), Canadian NHL player Billy Cowan (born 1938), American MLB player Billy Cowan (footballer) (fl.
The best known bearer of the nickname Nannerl was Austrian musician Maria Anna Mozart (1751–1829), the elder sister of composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, after whom some other women were named.
The term hypostasis is considered to be scientifically and culturally neutral, for the purpose of describing name-to-term relationships that, within religion and theology, might be termed a "deification", or otherwise by the more pejorative "idolatry".
At the time of the initial contact Mapuches called horses "hueque ingas" in reference to the hueque according to Valdivia's letter to the Emperor.
The name is a theophoric name, meaning 'servant of God' (in a similar construction to Christodoulos).
Socio-onomastics is the study of names through a sociolinguistic lens, and is part of the broader topic of onomastics.
When this happens, Hong Kong mainstream media usually adopt the Mandarin-translated names, but some members of the Hong Kong public may frown upon these names.
Ike Broflovski, a recurring character in the animated television series South Park Ike Skidmore, in the musical Oklahoma!
Fitz is a male given name and nickname which may refer to: Given name Fitz Babbitt (1790–1815), United States Navy lieutenant in the War of 1812 Fitz Boothby (1861–1889), Scottish golfer Fitz Eugene Dixon Jr.
He was involved in the study of Estonian place names (onomastics), and he collected and studied place names in Tartu County in particular.
In 1973, he defended his thesis Võnnu kihelkonna asustusalane toponüümika (The Settlement Toponymy of Võnnu Parish) and received the degree candidate of philology.
This old medieval origin convention was also adopted officially in the Treaty of Szatmár of 1711 and the Pragmatic Sanction of 1723; remained until 1848, when the privileges of the Hungarian nobility were abolished; and thereafter acquired a sense of ethnic nationalism.
At the 4th UN Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names (Geneva, August/September 1982) resolution nr.
And their land was so full on account of the host of people born there that it was insufficient to sustain or keep them, as we said above.
Theodoulos (Greek: Θεόδουλος) or Theodulus (amongst other variations) is a Greek masculine given name.
Buckley therefore argues that the Mandaean texts consider Ruha will eventually attain redemption, and merge with her dmuta (ideal counterpart) in the World of Light.
Later on, Kalkans become reported in many Russian sources of the 16th century, one of which Toponymy Ghalghai Mokhk (Гӏалгӏай Мохк) or Ghalghaiche (ГӀалгӏайче) — official native name of the Republic of Ingushetia.
Margie is a feminine given name, usually a short form (hypocorism) of the related names Margaret, Marjorie, or Margarita, all of which mean "pearl".
That is also the planet's name in Hebrew, מאדים ma'adim, which is derived from אדום adom, meaning 'red'.
It became a loanword in other South Asian languages to give similar means, such as in Tamil in which the word is maidhanam.
It is a compilation belonging to a tradition that began in the Middle Kingdom, and which includes the Ramesseum Onomasticon dating from the end of the Twentieth Dynasty of Egypt, no earlier than the reign of Ramesses IX (reigned 1129–1111 BCE).
United States government data also shows that Nannerl was in use as an independent name as well as a diminutive for Anna and its variants by 1916.
Initially, it was a favorite name among the Greeks, but it flourished in all of Europe after the First Crusade.
In Ottoman toponymic history a multitude of settlements with köy are attested, such as Boghaz Köy or Ermeni Köy.
The Administrator of the British Indian Ocean Territory is the junior to a commissioner (Chagos Archipelago, notably Diego Garcia.
The Queen was accompanied by the Prince of Wales (now Charles III) and Princess Anne on the tour, and attended celebrations connected with the bicentenary of Captain James Cook's first voyage to New Zealand.
New Zealand's representative in Tokelau is the administrator of Tokelau (since 2022, Don Higgins), who has the power to overturn rules passed by the General Fono (parliament).
James Ingram McDonald (11 June 1865 – 13 April 1935) was a New Zealand painter, photographer, film-maker, museum director, cultural ambassador film censor, and promoter of Maori arts and crafts.
History The Ministry became operational on 1 February 2011, bringing together and replacing the Foundation for Research, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Research, Science and Technology.
About Ngārimu is affiliated to the Māori iwi Ngāti Porou and Te Aitanga ā Mate, and is based in the Gisborne region on the East Coast of New Zealand.
He also alleged that the terms of references had been constructed in a way that gave a platform to conspiracy theorists.
The first session of the New Zealand Legislative Council was held in Auckland from 24 May to 10 July 1841.
Staffing Career staff The New Zealand Fire Service employed 1,713 professional career firefighters, 444 support staff and 80 communication centre staff.
This converted customary ownership to freehold, though partition orders remained the responsibility of the Māori Land Court.
History The Environmental Protection Authority was established on 1 July 2011 under its own Act, the Environmental Protection Authority Act 2011.
George William Clinkard (17 September 1893 – 27 January 1970) was a New Zealand public servant and trade commissioner.
His son George Jellicoe, 2nd Earl Jellicoe, had a military career during the Second World War, after which he was a parliamentarian and a businessman.
By 1904 the Maori Land Councils were at a standstill as Māori realised it did not deliver the autonomy they thought it would and there were protests in 1905.
Other positions were chairman of the Manawatu United Council, member of the Wellington Harbour Board, Commissioner for the Wellington Area Health Board and a member of the Massey University Council.
A separate ministerial portfolio for corrections was created on 1 October 1995 and was initially assigned to the incumbent justice minister, Doug Graham.
He became Naval Assistant to Third Naval Lord and Controller of the Navy in February 1902 and was given command of the armoured cruiser HMS Drake on the North America and West Indies Station in August 1903.
She was promoted to Dame Companion of the same order, for services to the State, in the 2016 New Year Honours.
Table footnotes (1) member present during the twelfth session (2) member not present during the twelfth session References Citations Works cited Wilson, Jim (1985) [First published in 1913].
In 1987, he led the department in becoming a smoke-free workplace after 86% of staff supported the move.
He served as Commissioner then High Commissioner to Singapore (also to Malaya and Ambassador to Thailand) 1955-58, then as High Commissioner to Canada 1958-61 and Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York 1958-62.
In 2022 the Northern and Southern Wards changed from three to two members and two new wards Tiikeitia ki Uta (Inland) Māori and Tiikeitia ki Tai (Coastal) Māori were established.
The term "administrator" is also used in the Canadian territory of Yukon, although the position of administrator in Yukon is analogous to a "deputy commissioner of Yukon".
Today the New Zealand Aid Programme, run by MFAT’s Pacific & Development Group, oversees a three-year NZ $2.91 billion appropriation for 2024-27.
As of 2023 she was on the Council of Te Pūkenga, the national vocational training organisation established by the government in 2020.
He talked about his church's efforts to broadcast information from the government and social services to congregants.
It included her first public speech, following the end of the year-long period of mourning as is custom.
Process There are four stages to a Family Group Conference; each stage of the process has equal importance.
There are several other courts of specialist jurisdiction, including the Employment Court, the Environment Court and the Māori Land Court, as well as the Family Court and the Youth Court, which operate as specialised divisions of the District Courts.
Although Frederick Whitaker was the head of the government, he was never appointed premier as that office had yet to be established.
As Ambassador to the EU he was instrumental in beginning the process that led to the EU/NZ Free Trade Agreement concluded in June 2022.
Aube left for the Pacific in February 1840, captained by Charles François Lavaud, who had been appointed as Commissaire du Roi.
The only occasion on which the Queen's Personal Flag for New Zealand was flown in her absence was at parades in honour of her Official Birthday.
On 14 July 2017, it was announced that van Bohemen would be appointed a Justice of High Court of New Zealand.
Family On 29 April 1891 he married Mary (May) Brabin and had three daughters with her, Marjorie, Flora and Dorothy, as well as a son, Donald Douglas.
In 1999, Price became New Zealand's High Commissioner to Samoa, and was present when Samoan Cabinet Minister Luagalau Kamu was assassinated at a Samoan political rally.
In 2008 Elwood was chairman of the Waterview Connection Procurement Steering Group, reviewing the feasibility of making a proposed State Highway extension in Auckland a public/private partnership (PPP).
Dame Paula Rae Rebstock (born 1 September 1960) is an Auckland-based consultant and company director who served as the Chair of the New Zealand Commerce Commission until March 2009.
The constitutional issue cut across the previous party lines (based on boosting or criticising the management of public works investment) and enabled supporters of Edward Stafford, such as Harry Atkinson, to join the Government.
The legislation faced reservation by Wi Pere, Tūkino Te Heuheu, Henare Tomoana and Mohi Te Atahikoia of the Tu Kotahitatanga movement but was passed anyway.
He was a New Zealand negotiator for the CER negotiations during a posting in Canberra from 1979–1983, and served in senior Foreign Affairs postings in Wellington before his posting in Jakarta from 1988–1991.
McDonald participated in the 1919–1923 Dominion Museum ethnological expeditions alongside Te Rangihīroa, Elsdon Best, Johannes Andersen and Āpirana Ngata.
However, only after the election of the First Labour Government in 1935 was there large-scale state involvement in the New Zealand housing market.
In May 2021 he delivered the judgement in the case of the FAST Party against the Electoral Commission, overturning the revocation of the 2021 election.
The central blue disc is taken from the then Queen's Personal Flag, which was used by the Queen in relation to her role as Head of the Commonwealth.
He was instrumental in providing New Zealand assistance to ensure political calm was restored to Samoa, and in the subsequent trial of those involved in the assassination plot.
As the governor-general is resident in New Zealand, the Cook Islands Constitution provides for the distinct position of King's Representative.
The EPA has a number of advisory groups and decision-making committees: EPA Board The EPA's Board is appointed by The Minister for the Environment and must have at least one member with experience relating to the Treaty of Waitangi and tikanga Māori (Māori customary values and practices).
In 2013, MTA announced that German based company DEKRA would purchase 60 percent of VTNZ for NZ$36 million.
The Christmas holiday, when Parliament was not sitting, provided a good opportunity to remove Jellicoe with a minimum of fuss.
Its independence in decision making is protected by statute and the established governance structures.
On 7 July, the HRPP lodged a complaint against him with the Judicial Services Commission, alleging he was incompetent.
Early life and family Born in Stratford on 14 October 1937, Salmond was the son of Ivy Emma Salmond (née MacClure) and Robert Carlyle Salmond.
Chippindale represented New Zealand at Accident Investigation Group meetings of ICAO and drafted the ICAO circular on the provision of "Family Assistance" after an aircraft accident.
Te Hurumanu was established to provide a dedicated mechanism for incorporating Māori expertise into senior leadership discussions and strategic decision-making.
At the United Nations, the country is identified in the General Assembly as simply "New Zealand", not as the Realm of New Zealand.
Contemporaries argued that "it was fear of Grey alone" which prevented wavering members from voting down the Hall government.
Rotation takes place between the chief secretary for administration (formerly chief secretary), the financial secretary and the secretary for justice (formerly attorney general) as the acting chief executive.
In 2023 she was appointed along with Ben Dalton and Helmut Modlik as a new member of the Board of Te Aka Whai Ora, the Māori Health Authority.
On arriving at Akaroa, Lavaud discovered that the agreement between Langlois and the local Māori was not as clear-cut as had been promised.
He was appointed Chief Judge of the Native Land Court in August, 1919, and held the position until 1939.
In 2004, the company rebranded itself as VTNZ and purchased its principal competitor On Road New Zealand.
Of those, 7.7 percent were for structural fires, 23.3 percent were for non-structural fires, 32.8 percent for non-fire emergencies, and 36.2 percent were false alarms.
In 1935, Clinkard was awarded the King George V Silver Jubilee Medal, and in 1953 he received the Queen Elizabeth II Coronation Medal.
Key Independent Liberal Reform United Labour National NZ First Alliance Notes References Wilson, Jim (1985) [First published in 1913].
Ackerley died in Wellington, New Zealand, aged 61 on 3 May 2011 from skin cancer after a short illness.
In August 1998 she was appointed as an Associate Commissioner of the Commerce Commission, becoming Chair in 2003.
Salmond was a Fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians and a Fellow of the Australasian Faculty of Public Health Medicine.
The most recent case was of a Mazda worth NZ$15,000 which was stolen while the inspector returned to the office to write the WOF sticker while leaving the keys in the car.
Council membership 2025–2028 The council elected in the 2025 local election is as follows: 2022–2025 During the 2022–2025 term, the composition of the Council was as follows: *Jarrod Calkin resigned on 7 December 2023.
The Minister of Corrections is also responsible for: Giving general directions to the Chief Executive of the Department relating to the exercise of their powers and functions.
However, the entrenchment provision has enjoyed longstanding bipartisan support, and the electoral consequences of using a legal loophole to alter an entrenched provision would likely be severe.
Graduating from Victoria University of Wellington, Kennedy was admitted as a Barrister and Solicitor of the High Court in 1974 and subsequently attended Harvard University, Harvard Kennedy School SMP (1998).
When the government submitted to this dictate, the Opposition politician Frederick Weld announced a new policy of ‘self-reliance’ which prompted the fall of the Whitaker-Fox ministry barely a year after it had assumed office.
The minister of customs is a minister in the New Zealand Government appointed by the Prime Minister to be in charge of matters of border control, international trade and travel and the collection of import duties and taxes to New Zealand.
Stage Two – Private family time At this stage, the co-ordinator and the professionals withdraw leaving the family to discuss and plan in private.
In the 1955 Queen's Birthday Honours, he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire, for services as secretary of the Department of Industries and Commerce and as a member of the Board of Trade.
During this period Korean visitors to New Zealand jumped from 27,300 to 104,400 (reaching a peak of 127,400 in 1996).
Elections for the New Ulster Province had already been held when news was received that the New Zealand Constitution Act 1852 had been passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
He worked in private law practices in Wellington and Auckland and from 2005 to 2010 was Director of the Legal Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and New Zealand's International Legal Adviser.
Most new pumping appliances for the New Zealand Fire Service up until the transition to Fire and Emergency New Zealand, were manufactured by the Fraser Engineering Group in Lower Hutt, and based on Iveco, Scania and finally MAN chassis.
Chief Executive / National Commander Beneath the commission were the positions of Chief Executive and National Commander.
In 2006, it was announced that he would succeed Richard Woods as director of another New Zealand intelligence agency, the Security Intelligence Service, on 1 November.
RNZAF career Chippindale was a pilot for the Royal New Zealand Air Force (RNZAF) from 1951 to 1974, flying transport and training aircraft.
The last session of the council was adjourned in January 1853, and those who were present at this session, or not present but still held membership, are identified accordingly.
The council consists of a mayor who is elected at large, and 11 councillors elected across five (three in 2019) wards, one of whom gets chosen as deputy mayor.
Background Governor Grey, upon the fall of the Domett Ministry, attempted to convince Edward Stafford to form a replacement Cabinet; he refused and Grey went to William Fox, who recommended Frederick Whitaker.
The Legislative Council consisted of the governor, the colonial secretary, the colonial treasurer, and senior justices of the peace; all members were appointed.
In 2024, the koroneihana was held in August to coincide with the 18th anniversary of King Tūheitia's accession.
Prior to becoming the Permanent Representative to the UN, van Bohemen was a Deputy Secretary of the Ministry.
The location of the flats, a short tram ride from Courtenay Place, was intended to give convenient access to the tenants’ workplaces, and reduce urban sprawl.
That same day, the Royal Commission announced that it had delayed hearing public submissions until 2024 while the National-led coalition government reviews its scope.
Chippindale's investigation techniques were revealed as lacking in rigour, which allowed errors and avoidable gaps in knowledge to appear in reports.
They are held at the monarch's official residence of Tūrangawaewae marae in Ngāruawāhia in the Waikato.
National had a policy of abolishing the seats while the Māori Party wanted the seats entrenched in law.
Robinson, one of the magistrates sent on Britomart, worked alongside Lavaud in the organisation of the settlement.
There are prints of his works in the collections of the Alexander Turnbull Library and the Bernice P.
The company was formed after negotiations in August 1838 between whaling boat captain Jean-François Langlois and several Ngāi Tahu Māori chiefs for the purchase of several thousand acres of land on Banks Peninsula, for which Langlois promised to pay a total of 1,000 francs.
Robert Noble Jones (1 August 1864–29 June 1942) was a New Zealand lawyer, public servant and land court judge.
Death On 12 February 2008, while out on an early morning walk near his home in Porirua, 20 km north of Wellington, Chippindale was hit by an out-of-control car and was killed instantly.
In some areas, these are carried on separate Rescue or Emergency Tenders which do not have pumping capabilities.
However, as Hall was at that moment in conflict with Bryce, Gordon instead attempted to call Sir George Grey back to office and had to be reminded that Hall's supporters still had a parliamentary majority.
He became head of communications security in 1982, and in 1983, he was appointed Director of Policy and Plans.
With backing from the Local Government Minister Michael Bassett, the commission reduced the number of councils from more than 800 to fewer than 100.
Education Rebstock has a double degree in international relations and economics from the University of Oregon, and a master's degree in Economics from the London School of Economics.
The minister has responsibility for WorkSafe New Zealand and acts as chair of the Industrial Relations Foundation.
Ministers The following members served in the Whitaker-Fox Ministry: See also New Zealand Government Notes == References ==
He was born in Belfast, County Antrim, Ireland, on 1 August 1864, and brought to New Zealand as an infant by his parents.
From 2000 to 2002 he was President of the Pacific Lawyers Society, and in 2002 he was appointed as inaugural chair of the National Pacific Radio Trust, which operates the Pacific Media Network.
The Ministry of Science and Innovation (MSI; Māori: Te Pūnaha Hiringa Whakaea) was a government agency within the New Zealand Government, dealing with the science and innovation sector in New Zealand.
Early life, family and education Thomson was born at Glororum, Northumberland, England, the third child of Alexander Thomson and his wife, Janet, née Turnbull.
He fought in the Anglo-Egyptian War and the Boxer Rebellion and commanded the Grand Fleet at the Battle of Jutland in May 1916 during the First World War.
In 2011, VTNZ had over 85 vehicle testing stations across New Zealand and employed nearly 1000 people.
Joseph Vivian Wilson (1894–1977) was a New Zealand public servant and diplomat, and the New Zealand ambassador to France.
See also Flags of Elizabeth II — for a full list of all of Queen Elizabeth II's flags List of New Zealand flags Queen's Personal Australian Flag Queen's Personal Canadian Flag Flag of the governor-general of New Zealand References "Symbols And Ceremonies".
There was also a provincialist streak to the Whitaker-Fox government, with the last restrictions on provincial borrowing being abolished.
History Prior to 1995 the country's prisons, probation system and the courts were all managed by the Department of Justice and overseen by the Minister of Justice.
In 2018, MFAT commissioned BERL (Business and Economic Research Ltd) to assess Māori export capability.
Koroneihana (Māori for 'coronation') are the week-long annual celebrations of the anniversary of the Māori monarch's accession and coronation.
He held that role until 1973 when he became director of the department's management services and research unit.
Thomson was responsible for the planning of the city of Invercargill in Southland, New Zealand and his mausoleum is in the St.
References Bibliography Bennion, Tom (July 1997), The Maori Land Court and Land Boards, 1909 to 1952 (PDF), Waitangi Tribunal, retrieved 7 January 2026 Hill, Richard S.
In November 2014 the Gwyn Report on the SIS criticised the actions in 2011 of the SIS and retired director Tucker over whether opposition leader Phil Goff had received a SIS briefing.
In 1992, when a Chief Executive was appointed, Chippindale became the Chief Inspector of Accidents with the TAIC, an appointment he retained until his retirement on 31 October 1998.
He was educated at Hamilton Boys' High School, and went on to study at the University of Otago from 1956 to 1961 and then 1966 to 1971.
Although single-unit dwellings had been preferred, the government felt that the housing problem was of such magnitude that every approach should be encouraged, and that advances in multi-unit complexes were such that they had become more socially acceptable.
Major renovations and alterations were carried out by the New Zealand Housing Corporation in 1987, but the original character of the scheme is still evident.
To this end, the Treaty of Waitangi was signed as an agreement between the British Crown and the indigenous Māori population.
In the 2014 Queen's Birthday Honours, Tucker was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to the State.
He joined Sport and Recreation New Zealand (SPARC) in 2004 as a senior advisor in coaching and volunteers.
After a breakfast meeting (13 February 1917) with Lloyd George, Carson (First Lord of the Admiralty) and Admirals Jellicoe and Duff agreed to "conduct experiments".
This was the trigger for this former provincialist to announce the abolition of provincial government.
An independent co-ordinator facilitates the involvement of the child, family network and professionals in the Family Group Conference process.
He was selected for the 1980 Summer Olympics, but most sports in New Zealand boycotted the Moscow games so he did not compete.
He was a member of the national team that won the gold medal at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal.
In the latter role, he was responsible for investigating complaints against central and local government agencies, including Ministers of the Crown.
Between 2007 and 2013, she held the position of deputy secretary policy at Te Puni Kōkiri, and in 2012 she served as acting chief executive of the Ministry of Women.
However, the abolitionist turn alienated some of Vogel's original supporters: William Reynolds would only support abolition if the land funds were to remain allocated to provincial expenditure, but George O’Rorke wouldn't accept this.
VTNZ has been a three-time winner of the IBM Kenexa Best Workplaces Award for Enterprise category (2014–2016).
The minister is responsible for the New Zealand Customs Service which is the oldest government department in New Zealand.
Between 1945 and 1975 the secretary of External (later Foreign) Affairs simultaneously headed the Prime Minister’s Department, a dual role that kept external policy closely tied to executive decision-making.
He was educated at the Christian Brothers' Boys' School in Dunedin and Waitaki Boys' High School, passing the public service entrance examination in 1926.
Atkinson was one of the new Government supporters whose caution began to restrain the speed of the public works programme.
In 1995 he became the first Samoan to win a Harkness Fellowship, and studied at Columbia University in New York.
The 1970 New Zealand Royal Visit Honours were appointments by Elizabeth II to the Royal Victorian Order, to mark her visit to New Zealand that year.
Industrial Took the side of employers in the 1951 waterfront dispute Economic Post-war rationing and price controls on property abolished.
John Turnbull Thomson, Ethnographical Considerations on the Whence of the Maori, Transactions of the New Zealand Institute, 1871.
The Department of Corrections was formed in 1995 by the Department of Justice (Restructuring) Act 1995.
In 2016, he was hired by Samoa's Attorney-General to prosecute the then-Director of the National Prosecutions Office, Mauga Precious Chang.
'Family' is determined broadly, to include the children, parents, extended family, and even significant friends and neighbours to the family who may not actually be blood-related.
Gerard van Bohemen is a New Zealand judge and a former Permanent Representative of New Zealand to the United Nations (UN) in New York.
On a relatively small swing, National gained eight seats and became the government for the first time.
In the 1937 New Year Honours, he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire, and the 1949 King's Birthday Honours, he was promoted to Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire, in recognition of his service as under-secretary of Internal Affairs.
The Rangitikei District Council is the local government authority for Rangitikei District in New Zealand.
In addition, hospitality worker Jodie Rameka testified about encountering hostility from customers unwilling to comply with COVID facemask requirements.
The EPA provides administrative support services to boards of inquiry, ranging from organising the logistics of the hearing, to commissioning specialist advice to assist the board.
It took office after defeating Sir George Grey's supporters (many of whom would subsequently form the Liberal Party) in a confidence motion, and is usually regarded as a conservative ministry, although Hall himself described his followers as "the independent Liberal party".
The maintenance of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in London as the final court of appeal and judges' practice of tending to follow British decisions, even though, technically, they are not bound by them, both bolstered this presumption.
An administrator (administrator of the government or officer administering the government) in the constitutional practice of some countries in the Commonwealth is a person who fulfils a role similar to that of a governor or a governor-general.
He was educated at Wooler and Duns Academy, later spending some time attached to Marischal College, Aberdeen, and Edinburgh University before studying engineering at Peter Nicholson's School of Engineering at Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Subsequently, he became Ambassador to the Republic of Korea (1993–95), at the time the youngest ever appointee from New Zealand.
He joined the public service in 1928 and studied part-time at the University of Otago and Victoria University of Wellington, graduating from Victoria with a Master of Laws (LLM) in 1936.
According to Section 12(2)(c), this applies to, among others, "any representation of the Royal Standard, or the Sovereign's personal flag for New Zealand".
The monarch is a component of Parliament, and the Royal Assent is required to allow for bills to become law.
The EPA name had been in use since 2009, when it applied to a unit of the Ministry for the Environment responsible for administering a section of the Resource Management Act relating to proposals of national significance.
The Hall ministry was a responsible government in New Zealand, sometimes referred to as part of the Continuous Ministry.
Jo Moir, "New Zealand's top UN diplomat and his posh New York apartment", stuff.co.nz, 26 June 2015.
Legislation related to the Corrections portfolio includes the Corrections Act 2004 (and accompanying regulations in the Corrections Regulations 2005), the Criminal Justice Act 1985, the Parole Act 2002, and the Sentencing Act 2002.
Honours In the 2009 Queen's Birthday Honours, Rebstock was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for public services, particularly as chair of the Commerce Commission.
One of his tasks was the design of the New Zealand coat of arms, for which the royal commission was awarded on 26 April 1911.
Reports First phase report On 28 November 2024, the Royal Commission of Inquiry released its first phase report, which was authored by Tony Blakely, John Whitehead and Grant Illingworth.
Legacy in Singapore During his government service in Singapore, Thomson was responsible for many projects: Thomson's 1852 report on Singapore's water supply led in 1862 to approval of the Thomson Reservoir, now MacRitchie Reservoir.
Māori Land Boards (also called Maori Land Councils initially) were administrative bodies in New Zealand.
Frank Winfird Millar (20 September 1885 – 4 September 1944) was a notable New Zealand public servant and union official.
Appointed by the Cook Islands Government, this position is de jure not subordinate to the governor-general and acts as the local representative of the King in right of New Zealand.
In 1950, the suspensory loan was introduced, a subsidy towards the construction of a home which was repayable if the house was sold within seven years.
The Pacific islands of the Cook Islands and Niue became New Zealand's first colonies in 1901 and then protectorates.
There will, of course, be professional monitoring and in the instance where there is child protection proceedings this monitoring will be done at the monthly core group meetings.
In the 1928 King's Birthday Honours, Jones was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire.
Price graduated with a master's degree in Political Science from the University of Auckland, and was editor of student magazine Craccum in 1968.
The dispute was an industrial conflict between the dockworkers' (watersiders') union and the Waterfront Industry Commission, representing employers.
Peter Kennedy was New Zealand Ambassador to South Korea from 1993 to 1995, following three years as foreign policy adviser to Prime Minister Jim Bolger.
In 2023 she was a council member of the Medical Council of New Zealand and was also appointed to the board of Te Aka Whai Ora (the Māori Health Authority).
On his return, he became Director of Operations (effectively deputy director of the GCSB), and in 1996, he became the Intelligence Co-ordinator in the office of the Prime Minister.
The minister for external territories consulted with the territory's chief minister as part of the appointment process.
This clause ensures the New Zealand Government retains the right to implement policies necessary to fulfil its obligations to Māori under Te Tiriti o Waitangi.
Personal life He married Joan Katherine McCormick (or Joan Mason) on 18 April 1938; they had four sons and one daughter.
He was a secondary school mathematics teacher at Linwood College, Christchurch and then head of the maths department at Awatapu College, Palmerston North.
Mindful of the unsustainability of the logging industry, Vogel promoted a measure to create national forestry reserves, but was frustrated by provincial interests who saw this as an encroachment on the Provincial Councils’ powers over land management.
the arms of New Zealand) in banner form defaced with a device taken from her personal flag (a blue roundel surrounded by a garland of roses encircling a crowned letter 'E', all in gold).
Although both parties were committed to the introduction of the system, they differed in terms of how the changeover from the previous system would be managed.
One of many measures that was undertaken by the First Labour Government was the launch of a state housing scheme to provide every New Zealander with a home that, in Walter Nash’s words, would be “fit for a cabinet minister”.
Bryce favoured the forcible confiscation of Taranaki land occupied by Te Whiti, and was forced to resign in William Rolleston's favour when he did not obtain the backing of Cabinet on this aggressive approach.
Toi te Taiao: the Bioethics Council was a government-sponsored council of New Zealand that was established in December 2002 and disestablished in 2009.
Elwood was appointed an ombudsman in November 1992, and Chief Ombudsman in December 1994, holding this position until June 2003.
From 1991–1994, Price was New Zealand's Consul-General to New Caledonia and French Polynesia, and chaired the South Pacific Commission's Management Committee during a period of structural reform of the organisation.
He was Assistant Secretary of the War Cabinet 1940-45, Deputy Secretary of the External Affairs Department 1943-55, Secretary of Cabinet 1946-55, and Head of Defence Secretariat 1949-55.
MSI assumed responsibility for the science and innovation policy and investment functions of both agencies.
History The Rangitikei District Council was established in 1989 as part of the 1989 local government reforms.
Overview The minister oversees the health and safety at work regulatory system, employment relations and standards regulatory system including the overarching employment relations framework and prescribed minimum standards, such as the minimum wage and holiday entitlements.
Garlitsky was fired and, at the Emperor's decree, his consciousness was copied onto a gel-crystal and his body destroyed, so he could continue working on specifications but under a watchful eye of the overseers.
Reception Booklist, in its review of The Clone Codes, wrote "The McKissacks' slight story for younger readers packs a great deal of messaging, which will no doubt prove useful in classroom discussions of issues and themes but sometimes comes at the expense of the story.
They uncover that their mother faked her own death after the Great Starvation and has only recently passed away.
The group's workspace on Elysium, the abandoned Moon Camp Americana, is overseen by a copy of Castillo's cavalier A.I.
His child, Dim Dever, is selected by the guiding world computer, called Olga, to carry his ancient genes to a possible new colony on a planet orbiting Procyon.
[and] asks readers to ponder what makes us human and if we’ll know when we’ve crossed the line, becoming something else." Publishers’ Weekly also gave the book a starred review, stating that "Dayton’s brilliant collection of stories is best described as a scientific Twilight Zone".
Helen and Jeb, whose children are not allowed on the shuttle due to genetic proximity, resentfully board.
As the amenities of the high-rise break down and bodies begin to pile up, no one considers leaving or alerting the authorities, instead exploring the newly-found urges and desires engendered by the building's disintegration.
9 years later, they arrive and discover that Earth II is sub-optimal: its high axial tilt creates temperature extremes on either side of its equator, making minimal land livable.
Buckman retires to Borneo where he is assassinated soon after writing an exposé of the global police apparatus.
Eventually, as the mutation does not allow the microorganisms to survive in freezing temperatures, when winter begins, all the creatures die.
After immobilizing Blake, they explain to Forbin their purpose in immobilizing Colossus — their desire to take half of the Earth's oxygen, a process that will kill nearly a quarter of the human population.
Finally, James penetrates a group working on a project they hope will usher in a whole new era of sensual technology.
Plot In the late 2060s, Logan Ramsay is a law enforcement official working for the Gene Protection Agency (GPA), an organization established in the aftermath of a global famine known as the "Great Starvation", which resulted from an attempt to genetically enhance crops.
Taverner is cleared of all charges and dies of old age, while Heather Hart abandons her celebrity career and becomes a recluse.
Humans Tomiko Asahina (朝比奈 富子, Asahina Tomiko) Voiced by: Yoshiko Sakakibara (Japanese); Allison Sumrall (English) Satoru's grandmother and also the head of the Ethics Committee.
To deal with these increasingly common robot malfunctions, American Congresswoman Laura Perez proposes a bill called the robot defense act.
Horrified by the prospect of his child being sacrificed to provide him with a new lower body, Larry opts to return to suspended animation.
Caidin revisited this theme a few years later in his novel, Cyborg, which was eventually adapted into the 1970s television series The Six Million Dollar Man.
The Daemon's first mission is to kill two programmers, Joseph Pavlos and Chopra Singh, who worked for CyberStorm Entertainment and unknowingly helped in the creation of the Daemon.
Panicked as his wife and child's deadline approaches, Asakawa tries to figure out why he was spared.
It continues with Ludmilla, a girl who must conceal the extent to which her body has been rebuilt as prejudice against altered humans is on the rise.
In desperation, Richards turns to the Games Network, a government-operated television station that runs violent game shows.
Instead, his body was born deformed and his extreme intelligence has twisted in upon itself so that he spends his mental energy creating anagrams and solving useless puzzles about the world around him.
The book is set in San Diego, California, in 2025, in a variation of the fictional world Vinge explored in his 2002 Hugo-winning novella "Fast Times at Fairmont High" and 2004's "Synthetic Serendipity".
She praised the book’s characters as role models, but criticized it for what she thinks is a rushed ending.
Chris Aylott described it as "a minor classic of science fiction – one that shows off both the best and worst elements of hard SF.
At school, that day, the principal announces the disappearance of Chad Hilligas, from which Tamaya quickly concludes that the missing kid must still be in the woods.
The book follows the progress of these new humans as they either go extinct or regain sapience in wildly different forms, gradually discovering that the Qu experimented on them.
The story is saturated with poetic quotations and the unrepentant silly fun not only of a love story between Dickinson and Whitman but the idea of them visiting the afterlife.
Martin's Press, 1987) X, Y (Dell, 1993) The Healer (Pyr, 2005) Short fiction Collections The Brains of Rats (Scream/Press, 1990).
Tikkirey shows that the whip bonded to him, which surprises the phage, as this has never happened before.
It is the second book in the Clone Codes trilogy and is about Houston Ye, a teen cyborg who, with Leanna (a girl who discovered she is a clone in the first book, The Clone Codes), attempt to obtain civil rights for themselves.
Amid increasingly chaotic seas, a young Islander named Brett is swept overboard during a rogue wave and presumed lost.
Despite betrayal by Nadine, Logan confronts and kills Kara, who by then had made significant advancements towards a global delivery mechanism for the upgrade.
The hotel chain, as the author explains, has moved downmarket over time to a niche of minimal but decent lodging.
For the most part, The Candy House takes place at a later time period and some of the stories include science-fiction themes.
Technology and science have degraded, and all freely breeding species have been exterminated except for the five-toed neolithic humans, who are classified as a garden varmint.
See also Neutron stars in fiction "Blink of an Eye", an episode of Star Trek: Voyager with a similar premise.
One of these planets is Hyperion, home to structures known as the Time Tombs, which are moving backwards in time and guarded by a legendary creature known as the Shrike.
By 16 October 2022, Kösemen had written the expanded version up until the Qu's conquest of the galaxy.
He eventually becomes a security operative, assigned jobs such as executing criminals, participating in a massive worldwide assassination of spammers who corrupt the internet.
Journal of the British Interplanetary Society: 61:9: September 2008: Seminar on Interstellar Propulsion Systems.
During Archos' invasion, Nomura built an army of robots and created a safe haven for humans all over Japan.
However, when a connection is made between the two programmers and Cyberstorm, the FBI takes control, led by Agent Decker.
However, "viruses" (parasitic artificial life-forms) known as psions have invaded the system of the Archive.
More than either of the previous stories, "Walt and Emily" delights in literary references and games.
Novellas The Roberts (Tachyon Publications, 2011) Longer (Tor.com, 2019) References External links Michael Blumlein.com Michael Blumlein at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Ritter, claiming to be from the Department of Homeland Security turns up and takes her into custody.
When Loki massacres the task force, the Major contains the situation by destroying all evidence (including leveling the building) and personally executing Roy Merritt, fearful that Merritt's pursuit of Loki will attract too much attention.
This enormous 'rake' is an ocean-going biota harvester built in part from a genetically modified blue whale.
(paperback), Berkley Books (ISBN 0-425-03467-4) See also Colossus The Fall of Colossus List of fictional computers
A Midsummer Night's Gene is a comedy science fiction novel written by Andrew Harman and published in 1997 by Random House.
They sneak back into the US, and then they meet up with Mordecai, who tells them about Henry Clarke.
In the author's acknowledgments Stephenson recalls: it became clear that the only way to make the Mac do the things we needed was to write a lot of custom image-processing software.
Ray is located and sent to live with Daemon agents, who will raise and educate Ray in a safe family-like setting.
Isadora offers Torquell a compromise: in exchange for peace, he'll be recognized as a Master over the lands his army currently holds.
(Chapter 10) "Scarcely more than half the stature of their predecessors, these beings were proportionally slight and lithe.
Until Jennifer is indicted for the murder, via sabotage and destruction of his vehicle (a We-Sleep scooter), of Dr.
Summary Tom Sanders, the head of advanced products manufacturing at DigiCom, expects to be promoted to run the advanced products division after DigiCom's merger with a publishing house.
He also displays calmness and confidence in retaliation against the Queerats' attack on the village but is still powerless against the Fiend due to Death Feedback.
With the funds from the bounty, Emika buys some power-ups that will help her team win the championship without touching the bugged power-ups.
Plot The novel is set in a dystopian version of 1988, following a Second Civil War which led to the collapse of the United States' democratic institutions.
Being hard SF, Ark contains many references to unrealised or hypothesised technology (Project Orion, the Alcubierre drive), physics (antimatter), and hypotheses about extraterrestrial life.
Blythe Randall – A former lover of Pryce's, Blake's twin sister, and inheritor to the IMP media company.
Islanders live on massive, bioengineered floating islands, each supporting populations of at least 10,000.
Later attempts with Canadian film-maker Vincenzo Natali attached to write and direct also failed, before the film adaptation was finally made in 2014.
Ser Olmy is concerned by the prospects of the Way being re-opened with the attendant consequences, and by the revelation to him by an old friend that one of the deepest secrets of the Hexamon was a captured Jart whose body died in the process but whose mind was uploaded.
However, Tom's division is due to be spun off as a publicly traded company after the merger, and if he is transferred, he will lose stock options which would have made him a wealthy man.
Plot Following his divorce, doctor and medical-school lecturer Robert Laing moves into his new apartment on the 25th floor of a recently completed high-rise building on the outskirts of London.
Professor Bjornsen had discovered a means of extending human vision into the far infrared and he discovered that the world is occupied by meter-wide spheres that appear pale blue in his new vision.
Reassessing Crash in The Guardian, Zadie Smith wrote, "Crash is an existential book about how everybody uses everything.
Kassad has repeated encounters with this woman inside these simulated battles, and he spends his days in the academy and after searching for her, as he believes that she is real.
Set in modern Britain, its plot concerns laboratory-engineered gene mutation at the Splice of Life Patentable Biosciences lab and the chaos that follows when it goes wrong.
Those invisible beings are immaterial: they are made of energy and Russell compares them to ball lightning.
This early work by Caidin includes a discussion of bionics, the replacement of human body parts with machinery.
However, jitter and latency are considerable problems with this basic network when long distances are involved.
Though the Martians attempt to destroy the fleet using their device, they underestimate the power of the battleships' guns, which succeed in destroying the Collector.
Seen by some as an act of divine retribution, the "Miracle" affects the lives of people all around and transforms world history.
Yet doing so puts him out of contact with Blake and the old Colossus, who informs Blake that a solution might exist that is acceptable to both the Martians and humanity.
Interpretation Throughout ''Crash'' I have used the car not only as a sexual image, but as a total metaphor for man's life in today's society.
Reception Darwinia won the Prix Aurora Award (Canadian science fiction and fantasy) for Best Long Form in 1999, and was nominated for the 1999 Hugo Award for Best Novel.
One of the common links which All Tomorrows has been shared through is a wiki site dedicated to speedrunning.
Kara is determined to proceed with their mother's plan, while Logan is opposed, leading to an altercation in which Kara attempts to kill him, though Logan manages to escape.
The spheres, which he called Vitons, are sentient and mildly telepathic (they can read people’s minds if they get close enough); they also feed on the electrochemical energy of human emotions.
He is outfitted with a set of intelligent mechanical legs, a "mannequin", and is placed into suspended animation until the damaged tissue can be restored.
Rife flees the Raft, taking Y.T., and his mercenary, Raven, attempts to activate the digital form of Snow Crash at a virtual concert within the Metaverse.
He travels to a safe house owned by a friend of Bradley in Portland, Maine, but is reported by the owner's mother.
In the twenty-sixth century, all religions and secular science consolidate into a religion based on the worship of motion whose god is Gordelpus, the Prime Mover.
Blumlein commenced his literary career in 1984 with the publication of the science fiction horror short story "Tissue Ablation and Variant Regeneration: A Case Report", which appeared in the British publication Interzone.
Collected reviews for "The Candy House." March 30, 2022 Jennifer Egan introduces her new novel, The Candy House.
During an unsupervised excursion, the group encounters a False Minoshiro, a relic from the past that reveals the dark origins of their civilization and the true nature of their powers.
Set in the near future, the novel tells the story of a top-secret cybernetic technician, Steve Rand, one of the brains behind Project 79, a top-secret US government project dedicated to creating artificial intelligence.
Ry Oyu intends to make up for his failure to instruct Patricia properly when she was trying to open a gate back home in Eon; he correctly opens the gate, and bare moments before the Way completely disintegrates around him, finally sends her back home to an Earth where the Death did not happen.
References External links Internet Speculative Fiction Database entry of The Clone Codes Library holdings of The Clone Codes
Plot The Color of Distance is a first-contact novel, detailing an encounter between human and alien cultures.
If the NSA doesn't reveal TRANSLTR to the public, Tankado intends to auction the code's algorithm on his website and have his partner, "North Dakota", release it for free if he dies, essentially holding the NSA hostage.
Henry Clarke: A person who manages social media messaging for the armed forces and the US Government.
"'i,' the Protagonist": Chris Salazar works complacently for a company that "algebraizes" stories to basic tropes.
This is in part due to the fact that the story is told, for the most part through the eyes of Swiss-born naturalist Louis Agassiz, who is apart from pompous and self-aggrandizing, also a proud unrepentant racist.
When designing his website and including his different books and projects, Kösemen purposefully left out All Tomorrows.
As the star's chemical processes are about one million times faster than Earth's, self-replicating "molecules" appear shortly and life begins on the star.
Ry Oyu has Rhita's mind freed; her consciousness gives Ry Oyu the last piece of data needed to reconstitute Patricia Vasquez.
He performs outlandish acts to elicit genuine reactions from strangers, causing strife with his family.
James watches a mysterious video in which the Randall's half-brother Billy evidently electrocutes himself, but this turns out to be a ruse.
Linda Hartinian, a personal friend of Dick, adapted the novel to the stage and designed the set, in addition to portraying Mary Ann Dominic and reading Dick's 1981 "Tagore Letter" at the end of the play.
One of the students then traces the code, and observes that it initially appeared in a location in China.
Crichton offered a rebuttal at the close of the novel which states that a "role-reversal" story uncovers aspects of the subject that would not be as easily seen with a female protagonist.
In the Wardraft, where wildcards are drafted into teams, Emika is the first player picked and joins Team Phoenix Riders.
The Tendu live in the treetops of a tropical zone on their planet, and communicate by changing the color and pattern of their skins.
However, the success of Snow Crash popularized the term to the extent that avatar is now a term for this concept in computer games and on the World Wide Web.
He is a regular reviewer for print magazines Asimov's Science Fiction, The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction, Science Fiction Eye, The New York Review of Science Fiction, Interzone and Nova Express, as well as online at Science Fiction Weekly.
The only survivors of the disaster are thirty-five humans stationed at the North Pole, whose descendants eventually split up into two separate species, the Second Men and some sub-humans.
Jason goes on a killing spree, sparking a riot in which gangs of inmates go berserk, committing murders and gang-raping Anyar and Blister.
Major themes The book deals with concepts such as artificial intelligence, worship, ecology, and the inherent problems of totalitarianism.
Law brought an unwanted companion with him, a mysterious twin who seems to have both lived and died on an alternate Earth unchanged by the Miracle.
Duré is prevented from either cutting out the cruciform or leaving the Bikura due to the severity of the pain; his journal entries end here, and Hoyt continues with his part of the tale.
It is held to be an important work, and is often hailed for its predictions of emerging technologies and society.
He sneaks away through a sewer pipe and emerges in the city's impoverished ghetto where he takes shelter with gang member Bradley Throckmorton and his family.
Together with Juna and other Tendu enkar or elders, particularly Ukatonen, Anito travels to the touchdown site of the human Survey mission, and must work with Juna and other Tendu to repair the environmental damage the human presence has caused.
Using this as a cover, Odin, Foxy and Linda manage to land on the Ebba Maersk and maneuver the ship away from the navy ship and towards a rocky island.
Over the course of generations, the cheela come to worship the humans' spacecraft as a god, and their records of its satellites' movements cause them to develop writing.
The Coming Technological Singularity: How to Survive in the Post-Human Era, 1993 — An essay by Vinge about the possible causes and effects of technological singularity.
Since the bets are so small, Emika believes them to be a set of coordinates that map out future attacks against Henka Games.
Reception A review in the School Library Journal wrote "It's a fast-paced book, sometimes too much so.
The military power of Ebon is so great, that the Czygu will have no chance, but the other races will forget their differences and united against humanity.
As with Ballard's previous novels Crash (1973) and Concrete Island (1974), High-Rise inquires into the ways in which modern social and technological landscapes could alter the human psyche in provocative and hitherto unexplored ways.
Michaels contends that this basic idea of language as code is central to the construct of Snow Crash ("...
Regardless, she and the other Supers band together for defense, recognizing that the Sleepless of Sanctuary have become so nervous of outsiders that even the Supers, created by the community and to serve it, constitute a threat due to their sheer alienness.
Plot Tikkirey "Tiki" Frost lives on the planet Quarry, poorly adapted for human life and stricken with poverty.
DigiCom president Bob Garvin, fearing that the incident could jeopardize the merger, tells the company's general counsel, Phil Blackburn, to propose transferring Tom to the company's Austin facility.
The Clone Codes is a 2010 science fiction novel by American writers Patricia and Fredrick McKissack.
Tikkirey, Lion, and Natasha sneak into the villa where the industrialist is being treated as an honored guest.
The once-dominant sentient kelp has nearly vanished, causing unstable ocean currents and submerging most of the remaining land masses.
Attending various private schools, Drew finds a flair for artistic expression, but consistently fails or flunks out of each of them; by nineteen he has becomes a delinquent.
The God Machine is a science-fiction novel by American writer Martin Caidin first published in 1968.
Plot "Swift death awaits the first cow that leads a revolt against milking," wrote Swedish Professor Peder Bjornsen just before he died of a heart attack in May 2015.
Blake Randall – A former fellow-student of Pryce's and one of the inheritors of the IMP media company.
She hopes to convince him that his rebellion is futile and will eventually be crushed by superior ogre technology.
Plot Fifth grader Tamaya Dhilwaddi and seventh grader Marshall Walsh have been walking to and from school together for years.
Instead of looking for a fighter-spec (the crew requirements are very specific in the contract), he decides to give Kim a try.
Billy has "virtualized" himself in a virtual world known as "NOD" in order to communicate secretly with Blake.
Kirkus Reviews describes the book as “a quick meditation on the promise and dangers of modern science that came from an exciting story from school life, friends, and bullies.” References External links Inspiration for Fuzzy Mud at Louis Sachar website
Plot The novel begins where its predecessor, The Fall of Colossus leaves off, with the supercomputer Colossus immobilized and the Martians arriving on Earth.
Shortly after, a volcano emerges in the area, and the clan invents the first sledge to carry food from more distant sources.
Given that information, researchers all over the world struggle to find a form of radio transmission that will kill Vitons.
The book was released for free online as a PDF on 4 October 2006 and has since then, per Kösemen himself, "had a life of its own as a PDF floating around the backwaters of the internet like a ghost ship".
Richards forces Amelia to jump off the plane with a parachute and then uses the last of his strength to reprogram the autopilot and fly toward the skyscraper serving as the headquarters of the Games Network.
The medium for implanting the program was chosen to be the many TV series produced on Iney and watched throughout the Empire.
To save the TRANSLTR Phil decides to shut it down but is murdered after being pushed off sub-levels of TRANSLTR by an unknown assailant.
In a sense, pornography is the most political form of fiction, dealing with how we use and exploit each other in the most urgent and ruthless way.
The ship's captain (who is also on the pilgrimage), Het Masteen, does not react and retires to his room without speaking.
Ryūji theorizes that the woman is already dead, and that the last part of the tape contains the will she wanted the viewer to fulfill.
Other short fiction has appeared in Interzone, The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction and other publications.
The human survivors of Zero Hour manage to fight back by destroying roads and buildings so the robots will have difficulty traveling.
By hiring Hulohot to kill Tankado, having Becker recover his ring and at the same time arranging for Hulohot to kill Becker, he would facilitate a romantic relationship with Fletcher, regaining his lost honor.
It is revealed that Helen Gray, Wilson Argent, and Jeb Holden fought and killed each other several years after their shuttle landed, forcing the 37 children who went with them to grow up on their own and develop their society.
Discovering that Kara has undergone a second upgrade that has further enhanced her cognitive and physical capabilities, Logan is unable to overpower her and is once again forced to escape.
The final novella, Walt and Emily, follows Emily Dickinson and Walt Whitman's blossoming love as they join a spiritualist and scientific expedition into the afterlife.
In his draft of the novel he mentioned Drake by name, but references to her were removed from the published version.
Wu after a heart-attack, but clear out the cholesterol from his arteries and restore him to something approaching youth, the former suspicion and distrust between species begins to dissolve.
Like many of Stephenson's novels, its themes include history, linguistics, anthropology, archaeology, religion, computer science, politics, cryptography, memetics, and philosophy.
The plot of the novel features multiple time-lines and is told from the points of view of many characters.
In order to rescue Juna, the Tendu extensively modify her biology, adapting her to the otherwise toxic atmosphere and allowing her to live among them.
There, Emika stumbles upon Ren, placing small bets and conversing with an ominous figure known as Zero.
Its scope is dizzying—and despite a somewhat disproportionate acceleration of the tempo toward the end, and a few scientific inferences which might legitimately be challenged, it remains a thing of unparalleled power.
McNulty has located Taverner via the tracking device the hotel lobby clerk placed on him, and instructs Taverner to come with him to the 469th Precinct police station so that further biometric identity checks can be performed.
He works in a sea paddock of the coast of Greece where he wrangles the manatees that are being raised to produce human organs for transplant.
Mushin (無瞋) Voiced by: Tamio Ōki (Japanese); Carl Masterson (English) An old, heavily bearded head priest of the Temple of Purification.
Campbell Memorial Award nominee, 2007 See also Augmented reality Ubiquitous computing References External links Rainbows End title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database Column on Vinge and Rainbows End by John Tierney, New York Times, published August 25, 2008.
These early attacks are part of Archos’ precursor virus, intended to measure humanity’s response to robot aggression.
Characters Susan Fletcher – The NSA's Head Cryptographer, and the story's lead character David Becker – A Professor of Modern Languages and the fiancé of Susan Fletcher Ensei Tankado – The author of Digital Fortress and a disgruntled former NSA employee.
Free is left in the decimated Moon Camp Americana to await rescue, and when he asks Major Tom about Jason's fate, the A.I.
It is about a girl, Leanna, who lives in 22nd century America where human clones and cyborgs are treated like second-class citizens, and what happens when she discovers that her parents are activists and that she is a clone.
In her list of the best science fiction books to read in September 2017, Everdeen Mason praised the novel for its quickly developing plot and entertainment value.
The volume ends with Leisha on retreat with Susan and Alice, and Jennifer informing her children that she will keep them safe: Sanctuary is moving into space.
"Bright Day": Roxy Kline, a recovering heroin addict, uploads her memories to Mandala and is ready to start a new life.
To that end, he enlists as a photographer in the Finch expedition, which plans to travel up the river that used to be known as the Rhine and penetrate the bizarre new continent's hidden depths as far as possible.
A tie-in to the Friday the 13th series of American horror films, it is the fifth and final installment in a series of five Jason X novels published by Black Flame and revolves around a group of scientists fighting for their lives against escaped convicts and undead cyborg Jason Voorhees.
For we cannot say we haven't got precisely what we dreamed of, what we always wanted, so badly." References in popular art Music The Normal's 1978 song "Warm Leatherette" was inspired by the novel, and later covered in 1980 by Grace Jones.
This was followed by oppressive and feudalistic regimes, but these too dissolved in chaos due to the violence of the psychic humans.
Avata establishes communication with Brett, Scudi, and others, revealing a broader restoration underway.
It is revealed in the Epilogue that Numataka is Tankado's father Inaccuracies and criticism The book was criticized by GCN for portraying facts about the NSA incorrectly and for misunderstanding the technology in the book, especially for the time when it was published.
Reception Wendy Graham reviewed Last and First Men for Adventurer magazine and stated that "I found the story was very gloomy on the whole.
Damien Walter of The Guardian, Ron Charles of the Washington Post, and Chris Barton of the Los Angeles Times were less enthusiastic, describing the novel as a disappointment and cheesy.
It does not take long for the occupants to ignore social restraints, abandoning life outside the building and devoting their time to the escalation of violence inside; people quit their jobs, and families stay indoors permanently, losing all sense of time.
Profile Blumlein attended medical school at the University of California, San Francisco and worked as a practicing doctor and member of the faculty at the University of California, San Francisco for decades.
It is the second book in his The Way series, dealing largely with the aftermath of the decision to split Axis City and abandon the Way in the preceding book, Eon.
Alexios has been modified with dolphin skin cells to live primarily underwater, where he oversees a flock of manatees who are growing within them human organs for transplant.
Ring (リング, Ringu) is a Japanese mystery horror novel by Koji Suzuki first published in 1991, and set in modern-day Japan.
Tikkirey and Lion are sent to a boarding school "to learn to serve the society better." Everything appears to be going well, except that the boys know they are under surveillance.
Tom is initially unable to access the company database to prove his innocence, since Meredith has revoked his authorization.
Yoshino finds out that the resort used to be a tuberculosis sanatorium, where Sadako's father lived in his last days, and the only surviving staff member working there during the period near Sadako's disappearance is GP Nagao Jotaro.
It should have been impossible for him to return, but one day he quietly re-appears on Earth to deliver an urgent message.
Film adaptations The novel was adapted into a film with the same title in 1987, five years after the book was released.
Assisted by a security agent and a mathematician, Rand sets out to destroy Project 79 before it is too late.
Free escapes his father, who is left clinging to the outside of the Sling as it transfers him and the prisoners aboard it to Thanos.
Capable of instantly falling in love with her client and does everything she can to get him to fall in love with her, if that is at all possible.
A user's skill in managing and producing augmented reality manifests itself in the details of the augmentation.
Searching for individuals with psychic photography abilities, aided by several other clues from the footage, they find the record of Sadako Yamamura, a young woman born on Izu Oshima Island.
The Poor Clares constitute the second branch of the Order of Friars Minor, founded in the thirteenth century by Clare of Assisi under the inspiration of Francis of Assisi.
He has been a member of the Buddhist Santi Asoke movement, which interprets the eight precepts as eating one vegetarian meal a day.
Still one must study the Torah and observe its commandments, even though he is not in the proper mood, since he will gradually acquire thereby a sympathetic frame of mind" (23b).
Premise The Day of Atonement is one on which American black men swear to refrain from crime, drug addiction, and family abuse.
The vow of enclosure is a religious vow made by some branches of the Poor Clares in addition to the three vows of obedience, poverty and chastity.
Some inscriptions are made in an extremely short formula, including only the vower's name and the word ndr (as a noun – "the vow of") or mtnt ("the gift of").
History Of the three ships on Columbus's first voyage, the flagship, the Santa María, had been shipwrecked in Hispaniola on December 25, 1492, leaving only the Niña and Pinta to make the homeward voyage.
With regard to applications of the principles of the third precept, the precept, or any Buddhist principle for that matter, is usually not connected with a stance against contraception.
Gabriel Turville-Petre suggested that names for Freyr and his sister Freyja which equate them with a boar and a sow respectively implied that consumption of the sacrificed boar was believed to be consumption of the god's flesh and absorption of his power.
The Oath Against Modernism is still pronounced by the Society of Saint Pius X, and sedeprivationist and sedevacantist groups such as the Congregation of Mary Immaculate Queen and the Istituto Mater Boni Consilii.
While originally containing heathen religious components such as prayers and worship of gods such as Freyr and Thor, the practice continued in an altered manner after the Christianisation of Scandinavia.
This was vowed to James before the battle by Ramiro I of Asturias in Calahorra, offering Saint James part of the booty taken from the Moors along with the first fruits and crops from each year's harvest as an ex voto.
Section 2 empowered judges to summon children to court to prove they had not gone abroad without licence under section 1.
Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar and Jómsvíkinga saga In Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar and Jómsvíkinga saga, accounts are given of the same memorial feast as in Fagrskinna.
However, many parish priests and other ‘low clergy’ sided with the Third Estate, representing their own class and the class of their flocks.
At one point of the account of the dedication of the Temple of Solomon, Solomon prays to Yahweh, asking him to hear and act upon curses uttered in a dispute that are then brought before his altar, to distinguish between the person in the right and the one in the wrong.
The sisters known as "extern sisters" (or "externs") do not make this additional vow in order to be able to handle some of the community's needs outside the papal enclosure.
Section 19 provided for rolls of those subscribing to the oaths under section 15 to 17 be kept at the Four Courts.
They included sets of precepts which were expected to be taken by laypersons, like the five precepts, and longer sets of rules for monastics (the Vinaya).
In a speech in Caen in 1791, he expressed himself as follows:Receive the homage of a heart that shares with you the glory of having seen the scepter of tyrants broken and the happiness of now living under laws dictated by reason and enshrined in evangelical morality.
Marital chastity In marriage, the spouses commit to a lifelong relationship that excludes sexual intimacy with other persons.
negative effects", specific research is lacking, and that it was intended more to prevent an increase in Catholic landholding than encourage further decrease: the Catholic share of land had already fallen from 60% before the 1641 Rebellion to 22% before the Williamite War to 14% in 1704.
Vows in religious institutes In medieval times religious vows taken by members of religious institutes approved by the Holy See were regarded both as solemn and public.
Churches of the Anglican Communion have no restrictions on the marriage of deacons, priests, bishops, or other ministers to a person of the opposite sex.
In most Orthodox traditions and in some Eastern Catholic Churches men who are already married may be ordained priests, but priests may not marry after ordination.
The disciple hoping to receive the precepts first pays respects to the six directions, which represent their parents, teacher, husband or wife, friends, religious master and employees (traditionally servants).
Columbus's vow (Spanish: El Voto colombino) was a vow by Christopher Columbus and other members of the crew of the caravel Niña on 14 February 1493, during the return trip of Columbus's first voyage to perform certain acts, including pilgrimages, upon their return to Spain.
In the latter case, Hrafnkell reflects on his vow, saying "[o]ften we shall repent when we speak too much but seldom we would rue it if we had spoken less".
In Tibetan Buddhism, there are eight types of Pratimokṣa vows: Vows for laity Fasting Vows (Upavasa, nyungne) — 8 vows Layperson's Vows (skt.
See also Seventeen Rules of Enjuin Oath of Asaph Hippocratic Oath Jīvaka Further reading Demieville, Paul.
The first sign, called "Sign of Tinnit", symbolizes according to most researchers the goddess Tinnit; her common epithet, pn bʿl appears as ΦΑΝΗΒΑΛΟΣ on a coin from Ashkelon near the symbol of Tinnit.
Archdeacon Parambil Thomas was ultimately consecrated as Metropolitan by twelve priests, taking the title Thoma I.
I shall have no faith in Gauri, Ganapati and other gods and goddesses of Hindus, and I shall not worship them.
He protested against the September Massacres, and supported the revolt of Lyon against the National Convention.
The second set of vows is original to Zhiyi's corpus and states: Sentient beings, limitless in number, I vow to ferry over.
As an emblem of inward chastity, some Christians choose to wear a cord, girdle or a cincture of one of the several Confraternities of the Cord or a purity ring.
Once he had received holy orders or made a religious profession, however, any marriage he contracted was considered null and void.
The thirteen saṅghādisesas for bhikkus are: Discharge of semen or getting someone to discharge your semen, except while dreaming.
May I set rolling the wheel of dharma that has not its equal, and is honoured and revered of devas and men." The Mahāvastu depicts Shakyamuni taking other vows under other past Buddhas.
(G) Sace gilānaṁ sappāyabhojanehi vā sappāyabhessajjehi vā sappāyūpaṭṭhānena vā na vuṭṭhāheyya, aham-pi kho tassa gilānassa anukampāya patirūpo upaṭṭhāko bhavissāmī ti.
Renunciation of the right to own property is now a matter for the constitutions of the religious institute in question and is associated not with the solemnity of the vows but with their perpetuity.
The existence of the oath was confirmed in an 1889 Salt Lake City meeting of the First Presidency in which they discussed "the propriety of ...
The battle had resulted from his refusal to pay the Tribute of 100 Damsels to the Emirate of Córdoba.
Section 13 mandated that inheritance from a Protestant would according to common law, that is primogeniture.
The precepts are normative rules, but are formulated and understood as "undertakings" rather than commandments enforced by a moral authority, according to the voluntary and gradualist standards of Buddhist ethics.
It also prohibited Catholics under 21 from going abroad without licence, to help enforce the prohibition in the Education Act 1695 (7 Will.
Mary of Guadalupe and carry a wax taper of five pounds weight; he caused them all to take an oath that the one on whom the lot fell, should perform the pilgrimage.
Teske, "Votive Offerings and the Belief System of Greek-Philadelphians", Western Folklore 44:3, Healing, Magic, and Religion (July 1985), pp.
The Mūlasarvāstivāda Vinaya is preserved in both the Tibetan Buddhist canon in the Kangyur, in a Chinese edition, and in an incomplete Sanskrit manuscript.
This can be done by venerating all Buddhas and by cultivating supreme moral and spiritual perfection, to be placed in the service of others.
Ceremony and symbolism Tamata may be offered to an icon or shrine of a saint as a reminder of a petitioner's particular need, or in gratitude for a prayer answered.
This icon, now called "Trojeručica" (The Three-handed) is preserved at Hilandar Monastery on Mount Athos.
This means not engaging with inappropriate partners, but also respecting one's personal commitment to a relationship.
The choice of a boar indicates a connection with Freyr, whose mount is the gold-bristled boar Gullinbursti, and the continuing Swedish tradition of eating pig-shaped cakes at Christmas recalls the early custom.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed.
The law of Duke Frederick II of Austria (1244), which served as a model for much other legislation on the Jews, merely required a Jew to swear "super Rodal" (by the Torah).
In many countries, it is also standard for novice monks (samanera) to follow the Sekhiyavatta rules in addition to the Ten Precepts.
Buddhist tradition therefore requires lay people to be chaste on observance days, which is similar to the historical Indian tradition of being chaste on parvan days.
In 1866, Chancery Commissioners reported that the Law of Judgments was much more complicated in Ireland than in England, and traced the difference back to the steps introduced in Ireland to enforce the 1704 act and ensure property was not being secretly transferred from Protestants to Catholics.
Aquinas held that the only vows that could be considered solemn were those made by receiving the holy orders as a member of the Catholic Hierarchy, or by the religious profession of the rule as a member of a Catholic religious order.
Contents The constitution advanced the imperial pretensions in the city of Rome, but also established a system to check the power of the nobles.
During the rally, Louis Farrakhan recited the following pledge and asked all men present to repeat after him and take the pledge.
1150): a wreath of thorns would be hung on the swearer's neck, others would grovel at his knees, and a thorn branch five ells in length would be pulled "between his loins" while he swore and called down upon himself all the curses of the Torah.
For example, one whose life has been saved from near-death might make a new neder as a commitment toward God.
The oath marked the culmination of Pius X's campaign against the theological movement of Modernism, which he analyzed and denounced as heretical in his 1907 encyclicals Pascendi Dominici gregis and Lamentabili sane exitu.
Dost thou renounce Satan and all his works, the vain pomp and glory of the world, with all covetous desires of the same, and the carnal desires of the flesh, so that thou wilt not follow, or be led by them?
Sīlena sugatiṃ yanti, sīlena bhogasampadā, sīlena nibbutiṃ yanti, tasmā sīlaṃ visodhaye.) In other textual traditions The format of the ceremony for taking the precepts occurs several times in the Chinese Buddhist Canon, in slightly different forms.
This person is unable to keep the vows but he promises to go for refuge to the triple gem until death.
Causing those engaged in calm-abiding meditation to give it up by giving their belongings to those who are merely reciting texts or making bad disciplinary rules which cause a spiritual community not to be harmonious.
Richards revised the ceremony to eliminate the oath of vengeance, and the revision was formally implemented in 1927.
It controlled roughly 10% of all French land, levied mandatory tithes upon the populace, and collected revenues from its estates, all of which contributed to the Church's total income, which it was not obliged to disclose to the state.
Supporting an agitator, even after he was rebuked three times (only applies if there are fewer than four supporters.) Rejecting well-grounded criticism, even after having been rebuked three times.
Notable declarations of faith include confirmation and adult baptism in Christianity, the Shahada in Islam and the Shema Yisrael in Judaism.
A declaration of faith is a phrase that is said by a member of any religion to show either to themselves, their God or other members of the religion their belief and faith in the religion.
Accepting and eating food after a bhikkuṇī has instructed the donors on whom to give what food, and none of the bhikkus rebuke the bhikkuṇī.
The profession of faith in the Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum is addressed to Saint Peter in a form somewhat reminiscent of an oath.
The Pāḷi Canon contains a considerable amount of information about sickness, health, medicine, healing, medical care and medical ethics.
A similar fate befell Louis-Alexandre Expilly, Constitutional Bishop of Finistère, who had distinguished himself in the early stages of the Revolution.
Scholarly reception The association with the Yule blót and with the ceremonial bragarfull gives the vows great solemnity, so that they have the force of oaths.
Copies of three letters which are said to be written by Ahathalla to Saint Thomas Christians are preserved in the archives of the Propaganda Fide and were published in facsimile by Jacob Kollaparambil, a Church historian.
One interpretation of "the husband of one wife" is that the man to be ordained could not have been married more than once and that perfect continence, total abstinence, was expected from him starting on the day of his ordination.
Keown, Damien (2004), A Dictionary of Buddhism, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-157917-2 Keyes, C.F.
The vows are regarded as the individual's free response to a call by God to follow Jesus Christ more closely under the action of the Holy Spirit in a particular form of religious living.
Some of the inscriptions can be translated, often denoting ownership, however some do not appear to form words and consequently have been interpreted as magic formulae.
In many medieval Chinese texts, the order of the last three items is different, with numbers 6 and 8 switched.
Other scholars believe the original intent was to prohibit using the name in the magical practice of conjuration.
Their loyalty to the United States was called into question due to rumors of oaths taken during the endowment ceremony.
Constitutional Monarchy In Paris itself, the revolutionary clergy wielded influence, particularly within religious orders such as the Augustinians, Carthusians, Dominicans, or Carmelites.
Provisions Section 1 defined as praemunire the encouragement or act of apostasy from Protestantism to Catholicism.
Because of the weight, it is said that the cross bent a little and so it is known as Oath of the bent cross (Coonen Kurisu Sathyam) After this historic oath, out of a population of 200,000 St.
The figure of 5% in 1776 given in Arthur Young's Tour in Ireland is probably an underestimate, although in 1778 only 1.5% of rent was paid to Catholics.
The Christianization of Ireland was in process by the 5th century CE, and the earliest written literature from Ireland is Christian in nature.
And doth thou believe in the Holy Ghost; the Holy Catholic Church; the Communion of Saints; the Remission of Sins; the Resurrection of the Body; and everlasting Life after Death?
For instance, while under the 1917 Code solemn vows rendered a subsequent marriage invalid, but simple vows only made the marriage illicit, the current Code of Canon Law states that "those bound by a public perpetual vow of chastity in a religious institute invalidly attempt marriage".
This required a bishop to take an oath before municipal officials promising "to be loyal to the nation, the law, and the king, and to support with all his power the constitution".
The most contentious aspect of the constitution, however, involved how new bishops were to be appointed to office and the duties required of them.
Some believe the letters may have been forged by Anjilimoottil Itty Thommen Kathanar, a skilled Syriac writer.
Vows The following are the 22 vows administered by Ambedkar to his followers: I shall have no faith in Brahma, Vishnu and Maheshwara, and I shall not worship them.
Fully professed Jesuits (known as "the professed of the fourth vow" within the order), take a vow of particular obedience to the Pope to undertake any mission laid out in their Formula of the Institute.
"Osservazioni sulla Constitutio Romana e sull Sacramentum Cleri et Populi Romani dell'anno 824." Studi medievali in onore di Antonino de Stefano.
Hænsa-Þóris saga presents an alternative way of performing heitstrengingar in which Hersteinn steps onto a stone with one foot before swearing an oath.
Similarly, if he made a vow to enter a particular religious institute or become a priest, but instead entered a different institute or decided to marry, the religious profession or the marriage, despite being a violation of his vow, was still considered valid.
Koch suggesting that it originated as a taboo deformation (i.e., modification of a phrase to avoid a taboo word).
The Liber Diurnus formula speaks of the Third Council of Constantinople as recently held and mentions by name the Pope and the Emperor involved in the Council.
It was renewed and formalised by a national festival in 1643 for his feast day (25 July) by Philip IV of Spain.
Overview The Pratimokṣa belongs to the Vinaya of the Buddhist doctrine and is seen as the very basis of Buddhism.
A solemn vow is a certain vow ("a deliberate and free promise made to God about a possible and better good") taken by an individual after completion of the novitiate in a religious order.
Tamata may be bought in shops selling Greek Orthodox religious items, and then hung with a ribbon on a pole or hooks near an icon or shrine of a saint, the act of which is usually accompanied with a prayer, and sometimes with the lighting of a votive candle.
The oath as a Jewish disability A decidedly aggressive change took place when, in 1555, the German imperial court procedure (Reichskammergerichtsordnung) prescribed a form of oath that, with some alterations, formed a model to subsequent legislation.
In the Catholic Church, the vow of obedience is one of the three vows of professing to live according to the evangelical counsels.
He considers Ó hUiginn's proposed explanation of the phrase "most unlikely", in view of the absence of documentation for this development, and the small number attestations of the Christian formula.
There are numerous other declarations of faith, typically performed during religious rituals in many faiths.
Islam Quran The most famous personal example of chastity in the Quran is the Virgin Mary (Mariam): And ˹remember˺ the one who guarded her chastity, so We breathed into her through Our angel, ˹Gabriel,˺ making her and her son a sign for all peoples.
At the time the election of Eugene was being challenged by Zinzinnus, the candidate of the Roman populace.
According to the Gospel of John, Jesus made appeals to the power of the name of God and also claimed the name of God as his own, which constituted blasphemy if it were not true.
It recognized no totally indispensable religious vows and thereby abrogated for the Latin Church the special consecration that distinguished "orders" from "congregations", while keeping some juridical distinctions.
About 50% of the priests of the Catholic Church in France rallied to the Constitutional Church, exceeding 80% in 27 departments.
If instead, he fails to restrain himself and kills sentient beings without mercy, he commits a Parajika (major) offense.
It remained in force until the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, with the approval of Paul VI, replaced it (along with the Tridentine Profession of Faith) with a revised profession of faith in 1967.
The surviving "convert roll" details are a valuable primary source for historians of 18th-century Ireland.
Bibliography External links One version of the Diploma of Ramiro I Archived 2014-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
Chapter 5: Cases in which a person dedicates or vows something by mistake; Nazarites who had made their vows before the destruction of the Temple, and, on coming to Jerusalem to offer their sacrifices, had learned that the Temple had been destroyed (§ 4); conditional Nazaritic vows (§§ 5-7).
The eight precepts is a list of precepts that are observed by lay devotees on observance days and festivals.
When Simon asked why he had decided to clip his hair, the youth replied that on beholding his image in a pool he had become vain of his own beauty, and had therefore taken the Nazaritic vow to avoid all temptations (4:7).
Nevertheless, before Pope Leo XIII's reforms in the 19th century, these simple vows constituted them religious in the true and proper sense of the word, with the consequent privileges and exemption of regulars, including the vows being a diriment impediment to matrimony, etc.
American researcher Timothy Tackett believes that the oath determined which individuals would let the revolution cause change and allow revolutionary reform; those who remained steadfast in their opposition would remain true to their beliefs for many years to come.
There has been some debate between modern scholars whether the Constitutio was a "dead letter" with little practical impact, or marked a stage of the road to imperial domination of the Papacy.
Against the identifications of the phrase as a remnant of pagan culture, Ó hUiginn has argued that the phrase "has every appearance of being a contrived learned phrase", an innovation in the early Irish epics dating to the Christian period rather than "an inherited pre-Christian archaism".
Columbus, the Niño brothers and the rest of the crew from Moguer headed immediately to Moguer, bringing with them some Caribbean natives whom they had taken on their voyage back, and also bringing several parrots.
A series of synods, including the 1585 Synod of Goa, were held, which introduced Latinized elements to the local liturgy.
The most important of these virtues is non-harming (Pāli and Sanskrit: ahiṃsa), which underlies all of the five precepts.
The Day of Atonement, October 16, was established during the Million Man March in Washington, DC, on October 16, 1995 by the Nation of Islam.
See also Credo of the People of God (profession of faith of Pope Paul VI) References Sources Patrologia Latina, 105, columns 9-188
They first are annulled on the eve of Rosh Hashanah, and then by the recitation of Kol Nidre at the beginning of Yom Kippur.
The objective of the eight precepts is different from the five in that they are less moral in nature, but more focused on developing meditative concentration, and preventing distractions.
Classical antiquity Philo pointed out that it is natural that God would swear by himself, even though this is "a thing impossible for anyone else".
In Roman Catholicism, a declaration of faith may be used in various circumstances, both for purpose of conversion and of reaffirmation.
Notably, rejecting Mahāyāna as the Buddha’s word (buddhavacana) is a significant infraction, reflecting historical debates over the authenticity of Mahāyāna sūtras.
I shall have no faith in Rama and Krishna, who are believed to be incarnation of God, and I shall not worship them.
These are public vows, meaning vows accepted by a superior in the name of the Church, and they are usually of two durations: temporary, and, after a few years, final vows (permanent or "perpetual").
The Criminal Law Commission's 1845 report on oaths said sections 1, 3, and 6 of the 1704 act had fallen into disuse and should be repealed.
In history Besides the aforementioned mentions of nazirites in the Hebrew Bible, New Testament, and classic rabbinic texts, the following ancient texts describe cases of naziriteship: Deuterocanonical texts 1 Maccabees, dated to about 166 BCE, mentions men who had ended their nazirite vows.
References External links Jewish Encyclopedia by Gotthard Deutsch This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; et al., eds.
He argues that the archaic grammatical features in this phrase show a "syntactic imbalance", which would be unexpected in a genuine idiomatic expression.
Nazir (Hebrew: נזיר) is a treatise of the Mishnah and the Tosefta and in both Talmuds, devoted chiefly to a discussion of the laws of the Nazirite laid down in Numbers 6:1-21.
The declaration of faith, generally known as the Profession of Faith, may also feature within the Sacrifice of the Mass, especially in the Easter season.
To avoid seeming immoderately devoted to his beautiful wife and therefore inferior in his ministry, he renounced conjugal intercourse forever.
If we are to believe the legend of Hegesippus quoted by Eusebius, James, brother of Jesus, Bishop of Jerusalem, was a nazirite, and performed with rigorous exactness all the practices enjoined by that rule of life.
Popes outside the 682–727 period would not have spoken of the 680–681 Council as recent, and it would be particularly ridiculous to suppose that Popes from two centuries before the Council knew anything whatever about that Council.
In an interesting comparison to this, Suśruta, the father of Indian medicine, advises the physician not to treat a patient he suspects of being incurable so as not to be blamed for the patient's death and injure his reputation.
In most of the editions of the Mishnah, this treatise is the fourth in the order Nashim, and it is divided into 9 chapters, containing 48 paragraphs in all.
Personal improvement One who wishes to improve oneself might make a neder in order to change one's behavior for the better.
These "vows of renunciation" are then followed by the profession of faith in Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
Moreover, the symbol appears on stelae from Samʼal, on which Baal Hammon is mentioned (like Kilamuwa stele).
In India, these vows are taken as an oath by individuals or groups of people when they convert to Buddhism.
Along similar lines, the Sunday Service of the Methodists, the first liturgical book of Methodism, contains the following baptismal vows: Question.
Over time, however, the formal Tonsure and taking of vows was adopted to impress upon the monastic the seriousness of the commitment to the ascetic life he or she was adopting.
The fifth article recognizes that at times it might be necessary to deal with the loathsome aspects of the human body and that the physician should do this with detachment, both for his or her own mental balance and so as not to embarrass the patient.
While some of them left the clergy, often in connection with the criticism of clerical celibacy, a small minority engaged in actions of dechristianization.
The epithet pn bʿl ("the face of Baal") is reflected on Punic masks of faces from Carthage, featuring the symbol of Baal Hammon on them, literally the "face of Baal" – pn bʿl.
The ordination procedures for receiving precepts in the Chinese tradition are laid out in the fourteenth chapter of the Sutra on Upasaka Precepts (優婆塞戒經受戒品第十四).
However, Webster does not expressly state that the formula in the Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum was used by Popes from the fifth to the eleventh century, which would obviously be impossible.
After this, he and all the crew made a vow to go in procession, clothed in penitential garments, to the first church dedicated to Our Lady which they should meet with on arriving at land, and there pay their devotions.
And may that sulphur and pitch flow down upon your neck that flowed over Sodom and Gomorrah, and the same pitch that flowed over Babylon flow over you, but two hundred times more, and may the earth envelop and swallow you up as it did Dathan and Abiram.
See also Ad tuendam fidem Humani generis Providentissimus Deus References External links The original Latin text of Sacrorum antistitum English translation of Sacrorum antistitum in The American Catholic Quarterly Review (October 1910: vol.
The Caduceus might symbolize both gods in some sort of a joint cult, but it exact meaning remains unknown.
It constitutes one of the religious vows which are made both by members of the religious institutes and diocesan hermits.
At least one member felt the oath to include a personal obligation that "if he had ever met any of those who had taken a hand in that massacre he would undoubtedly have attempted to avenge the blood of the martyrs." One source states members understood the oath to require only prayer.
The oath was required of "all clergy, pastors, confessors, preachers, religious superiors, and professors in philosophical-theological seminaries" of the Catholic Church.
They supported Gallicanism, advocating for the autonomy or even independence of the Catholic Church in France from the Pope.
He can groom his hair with his fingers or scratch his head and need not be concerned if some hair falls out, however, he cannot use a comb since it very likely to pull out some hair.
President Woodruff—I have already said that there is nothing of that kind in any part or phase of "Mormonism." I ought to know about that as I am one of the oldest members of the Church.
Nedarim by women According to the Torah, a neder pronounced by a married woman or a female "still living in her father's house" can be "disallowed" by her husband or her father, respectively, if they so choose, but only on the day that they hear the vow.
Sects & Sectarianism - The origins of Buddhist Schools Archived 2008-08-20 at the Wayback Machine Suttavibhanga - Full list of rules for Bhikkus and Bhikkunis along with "origin stories" for each one.
After publication of the 1917 Code, many institutes with simple vows appealed to the Holy See for permission to make solemn vows.
I renounce Hinduism which is harmful to humanity and impedes the advancement and development of humanity, and adopt Buddhism as my religion.
As a result, a schism was created, resulting in an illegal and underground French Catholic Church loyal to the Papacy, and a "constitutional church" that was subservient to the State.
This becomes a recurring topos in later sagas, although we have only these two saga mentions attesting to the custom of making vows on the sacrificial animal.
The Church used the six percent of the land they owned for a multitude of purposes which included churches, monasteries, convents, schools, hospitals, and other establishments which served the people of France.
Interestingly, the bodhisattva precepts sometimes supersede the prātimokṣa precepts; for example, certain secondary infractions suggest that actions typically deemed unethical—such as killing or lying—could be justified if they lead to greater benefit.
It was formerly usual to spell the word sónargǫltr and to interpret it as "atonement-boar" (the rare element sónar- can also mean "sacrifice").
Another interpretation of "the husband of one wife" was a prohibition of polygamy, which was not uncommon in the Old Testament (King David and King Solomon, for example, were polygamists).
Having crossed over, may I lead others across; comforted, may I comfort others; emancipated, may I emancipate others.
Teaching by denomination Catholicism Chastity is a central and pivotal concept in Roman Catholic praxis.
It also restored the custom established by Pope Stephen III in 769 whereby both the laity and clergy of Rome would participate in Papal elections.
Questions for candidates According to the Roman Ritual of the Catholic Church, first, three the person to be baptized is asked to renounce evil: "Do you renounce Satan?
They include ethical precepts such as refraining from killing any living being, but also more specific ones, such as abstaining from entertainments.
There are three degrees of monasticism in the Orthodox Church: The ryassaphore (one who wears the ryassa – however, there are no vows at this level – the Stavrophore (one who wears the cross), and the Schema-monk (one who wears the Great Schema; i.e., the full monastic habit).
Etymology In Old Norse, the term heitstrenging or heit-strenging ('the swearing of a solemn vow') is derived from the verb 'heit-strengja' ('to vow'), in turn formed from the joining of heit ('a solemn vow') and the verb strengja ('to string', 'to fasten').
This vow required the nazirite to: Abstain from wine and strong drink as well as all other grape products, such as vinegar Refrain from cutting the hair on his head Not to become ritually impure by contact with corpses or graves, even those of family members.
At the heart of such a view of human sexuality lies the conviction that the notion of personal freedom should never be misconstrued as the freedom to flout God's laws by overstepping the bounds which, in his infinite wisdom, he has set upon the relations of the sexes.
See also Parinamana References Further reading Blo-gros-mthaʼ-yas, Koṅ-sprul; Taye, Lodro; Rinpoche, Bokar (2003).
Nonetheless, these events show that a desire to check the power and privileges of the Church was gaining momentum before the Revolution erupted.
It is being followed by the monks of the Theravada lineage (Thailand, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Cambodia and Laos).
They have also adopted dietary laws derived from Leviticus, which accounts for some similarity to the prohibitions of the Jewish dietary law of Kashrut.
τάματα, tamata) is a form of votive offering or ex-voto used in the Eastern Orthodox Church, particularly the Greek Orthodox Church.
A general on-line search engine for the PED is available at http://dsal.uchicago.edu/dictionaries/pali/.
A neder to be a Nazirite for a period of time or sometimes for life for any of the above-described reasons.
They are notably associated with the related aspects of wealth, being used as forms of currency in the Early Medieval Period, and swearing sacred oaths, often dedicated to, or witnessed by, the gods.
Maimonides thought the commandment should be taken as generally as possible, and therefore he considered it forbidden to mention God's name unnecessarily at any time.
He briefly became a teaching assistant at the University of Lagos and later served as an African literature lecturer at University of Nigeria, Nsukka until the civil war broke out; he supported the Federal Government and so had to leave the region and return to Bori.
Findings Energy Balance in Europe Energy demands and the cost of the heating demands of the industrial, residential, service, agricultural and transportation sectors were estimated using data from the 2003 IEA energy balances for OECD and non-OECD countries.
Controversy The public consultation process before the ruling, and the ruling itself were controversial, yielding 229 comments.
In addition targets are broken down further by energy use sector including transport, electricity and the heating and cooling sectors.
The response was the creation of groups like the Association of Arab-American University Graduates, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee and the Arab American Institute.
Do you agree with President Carlos Mesa's policy of using gas as a strategic recourse to achieve a sovereign and viable route of access to the Pacific Ocean?
Legislation has also been passed for the District of Columbia; PaintCare anticipates beginning the District's paint stewardship program in September 2016.
Oceania Australia New Zealand In October 2007, the Clark Labour government introduced a 10 year moratorium on new fossil fuel thermal power generation.
Building performance standards There are several different building performance standards widely used for designing building codes and energy-efficiency certifications.
This work proceeded until October 2011, when the European Union argued that, given current developments in the international energy situation and the lack of progress in negotiations and consultations, it appeared no longer opportune to continue talks.
Research has found that in developed countries, the direct rebound effect is usually small to moderate, ranging from roughly 5% to 40% in residential space heating and cooling.
32 European countries, including the 25 member states of the European Union (as of 2004), the 4 accession countries, as of 2007, (Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Croatia), and three EFTA countries (Iceland, Norway and Switzerland) were included in the analysis for the project.
The Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) is an international agreement which establishes a multilateral framework for cross-border cooperation in the energy industry, principally the fossil fuel industry.
History In 2015, Pacific Island leaders issued the "Suva Declaration On Climate Change" during the Pacific Islands Development Forum in Suva, Fiji.
Despite a short increase in 2021/2022 driven by the United States, the industry continues to see diminishing returns.
The International Energy Forum (IEF) is an inter-governmental, non-profit international organisation which aims to foster greater mutual understanding and awareness of common energy interests among its members.
These group discussions reflect many concerns on the issue of the use of unconventional oil and unconventional gas.
RFA also complained that corn-based ethanol scored only a 21% reduction, noting that without ILUC, corn ethanol achieves a 52% GHG reduction.
There is a major fear on the possible disconnection between the public's and the authorities' visions of what is a good choice for the good reasons.
The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining (Spanish: Ministerio de Industria, Energía y Minería, MIEM) of Uruguay is a ministry of the Government of Uruguay that is responsible for formulating and promoting the industrial, energy and mining policies of the country.
Global Energy Justice: Principles, Problems, and Practices (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2014) Sovacool, BK (Ed.).
The Icelandic Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism (Icelandic: Iðnaðarráðuneytið) is one of the cabinet-level government ministries responsible for Iceland's economy.
In these systems, consumers can be financially compensated for reducing their consumption during peak loads, effectively "selling" the energy they did not use back to the grid.
Proper mix of solar thermal and solar PV can fully match the load fluctuations without the need of costly battery storage.
The Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), founded on 11 December 1988, is a sociopolitical organization in Nigeria, representing the interest of the Ijaw people, the fourth largest ethnic groups in Nigeria.
In Queensland starting in 2008, the Solar Bonus Scheme pays 44 cents for every excess kilowatt hour of energy fed into the state electricity grid.
History In 1907, from the Ministry of Development, the President of the Republic Claudio Williman decided to create the Ministry of Industries, Labor and Public Instruction, it was responsible for livestock, agriculture, police, animal health, Immigration and colonization.
The use of heavy-water reactors has been particularly attractive for the nation because it allows uranium to be burnt with little to no enrichment.
41), which establishes goals of reducing carbon intensity by 17% by 2015, compared with 2010 levels and raising energy consumption intensity by 16%, relative to GDP.
UNICA called for regulators to establish an empirical and "globally accepted methodology" to consider ILUC, with the participation of researchers and scientists from biofuel crop-producing countries.
He was formerly Director of the Danish Center for Energy Technology at the Department of Business Development and Technology and a professor of social sciences at Aarhus University.
Concept The concept behind Blackle is that computer monitors can use less energy by displaying darker colors.
More formal approaches to building performance appeared in the 1970s and 1980s, with seminal works being the book on Building Performance and CIB Report 64.
In 2018, the Delaware SEU was named Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2018 Energy STAR Partner of the Year and received the EPA Energy STAR Excellence Award.
Lighting In EU politics Finnish government supported the delay in the banning of incandescent lightbulbs.
Practical tests showed that reclocking a GeForce GTX 480 can achieve a 28% lower power consumption while only decreasing performance by 1% for a given task.
KazRosGaz is a joint venture between KazMunaiGaz and Gazprom which is involved in the export and trade of gas with Russia.
Besides "Burboye Solar-1", the Zhambyl region implements nine projects of alternative energy sources.
On 6 May 2019 Nick Koolsbergen, who was the UCP's Alberta campaign manager for the winning election, announced the establishment of the Wellington Advocacy government relations firm with Harper & Associates' Rachel Curran.
When peak demand and annual energy use are low, costly and sophisticated central heating systems are only sometimes needed.
The International Energy Forum Secretariat is to ensure that the Forum is promoting a neutral platform for the exchange of information and views regarding conflicts and the future of the energy industry.
It has promoted actively professors John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt's book The Israel Lobby and U.S.
Tania Voon, a Professor in Law at the University of Melbourne, criticises the modernization of the ECT for not including a removal of the art.
In the plan, the member state sets out sectoral targets, the technology mix they expect to use, the trajectory they will follow, and the measures and reforms they will undertake to overcome the barriers to developing renewable energy.
Iraq, Morocco and Saudi Arabia also each spent over $3 million, and the non-Arab, Middle Eastern nation of Turkey also spent over $3 million.
Five of the questions reviewed and approved by the CEC were about LGBT rights, LGBT sex education and same-sex marriage.
Though decommissioning typically includes dismantling of the facility, it is not necessarily part of it as far as existing structures are reused after decommissioning and decontamination.,p.
Reducing huge national subsidies to domestic coal industries and promoting the lucrative market for nuclear power stations being the case in point.
Background Ever since the Mexican revolution of 1910, the US and Mexican governments were at odds over the issue of oil concessions in Mexico.
In 1911, the name was changed to the Ministry of Industries, Labor and Communications and in 1935, after a reorganization of the Ministry, he began to take responsibility for Industry and Labor, until in 1967 his name was changed to the Ministry of Industries and Commerce .
In response to this finding, Byrne's team worked on designing an energy system model that would use a commonwealth economy and community trusts to achieve this goal; the result was the SEU.
The length of secondary transmission lines (400 V and above) is 10,381,226 km (6,450,595 mi) as of 31 March 2018.
Source: Criticism Due to the requirements of coal as one source of fuel for energy power plants, environmentalists expressed the concern about power plants burning more coal without the imposition of stricter sulphur dioxide emission controls, because that this could increase the risk the acid rain.
According to Mikko Saari (VTT 2004) a low energy block of flats in Finland would save 400 000–€1 000 000 in warming costs in 50 years with 3-6% annual energy price increase.
In 2007 China stated that the (now reversed) one-child policy prevented 300 million births, saving 1.3 billion tons of CO2 emissions based on average world per capita emissions of 4.2 tons at 2005 level.
Many scenarios have been envisioned to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, usually by the name of net zero emissions.
Sovacool lectures on energy security, alternative and renewable energy, environmental economics, and energy policy.
Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20110711110118/http://gonegawatts.com/incentives.php Presentation on European Green Paper on Energy Efficiency p.
It was created by Toby Heap of Heap Media Australia with the goal of saving energy by displaying a black background with grayish-white text color on search results.
An SEU can be given bond issuing capacity which allows it to sell tax-exempt bonds in order to treat sustainable energy as an infrastructure scale investment.
On 17 July, Greenpeace announced that the Civil Court of Rome had officially sent the case to the Court of Cassation; the event marked the first time the Italian Supreme Court was ever involved in ruling on a climate change litigation.
As of at least 2023, China's goals for nuclear power expansion are the most ambitious of any country.
Such a power saving mode may do decrease brightness, pause or terminate unused or background apps, etc.
Due to these global declines, The Ministry of Minerals and Energy is pursuing more investments in the industry through the exploration and exploitation of non-diamond minerals.
Roosevelt was preparing to enter the war against Hitler, and in an attempt to appease the Mexican government while assisting US oil industry, decided to remit all debts by the Mexican government to the US, which were mostly related to agricultural products.
In a statement given after the settlement, Shell suggested that the money was being provided to the relatives of Saro-Wiwa and the eight other victims to cover the legal costs of the case and also in recognition of the events that took place in the region.
In February 2015, Waste Diversion Ontario approved Product Care as the new Ontario waste paint stewardship operator effectively replacing Stewardship Ontario.
Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 2002 (MPRDA) is an act of the Parliament of South Africa.
The homepage of Blackle provides a count of the number of watt hours claimed to have been saved by enabling this concept.
Shaders are the most power hungry component of a GPU, a predictive shader shut down power gating technique achieves up to 46% leakage reduction on shader processors.
It prohibited the use of natural gas or petroleum as the primary energy source in a new major fuel-burning installation (MFBI) consisting of a boiler.
Initially design and performance were managed by craftsmen who combined their expertise in both domains.
Time of use metering is a significant issue for renewable-energy sources, since, for example, solar power systems tend to produce most energy at noon and produce little power during the daytime peak-price period (see also duck curve), and no power during the night period when price is low.
The concept implies that saving a specific amount of energy is functionally equivalent to generating that same amount.
trade association of home performance contractors and others promoting performance based energy retrofits.
In a FIP, renewable energy producers sell to the electricity market and receive a payment (premium) in addition to the market price.
However, estimates in the report exclude the amount of heat required for maintenance of indoor temperatures and hot water consumption, due to a lack of data.
Two of their approved questions were related to same-sex marriage; one on whether marriage should be limited to a bond between a man and a woman and one on whether there should be a special law to protect same-sex couples' right to a "permanent union" (effectively introducing civil unions).
Cooling Market in Europe The cooling market was found be expanding at a greater rate than previous estimations.
Since hempcrete contains a plant-based compound, walls need to be built with a joint in between the wall and ground to prevent capillary rising of water and runoff, blocks need to be installed above ground level and exterior walls should be protected with sand and plasters to avoid rotting shives.
Biography Early life Kenule Saro-Wiwa was born in Bori, near Port Harcourt, Nigeria, on 10 October 1941.
The group began in Kaiama, Bayelsa State, during a period of intense activism and agitation for the rights of the Niger Delta people.
The total energy supply chain, from production to final consumption, involves many activities that cause a loss of useful energy.
Indoor air dew point temperatures are more likely to be in the order of around 0 °C (32 °F) when it is that cold outdoors, much lower than the predicted vapor barrier temperature, and hence the 1/3:2/3 rule is quite conservative.
The creation of an organization to promote Alberta's oil and gas industries was a campaign promise by United Conservative Party leader Jason Kenney during the 2019 Alberta general election.
The outer ring that represents energy activities, the middle ring represent the rights of humans that are suggested to be protected from energy activities, and the final ring focus on the 5 key forms of justice across the energy sector.
The book describes how fossil fuels remain the main source of energy for the world, while nuclear power manages to meet only three percent of the needs of world energy.
Ecoheatcool project was launched at the beginning of 2005 with support from the Intelligent Energy Europe programme.
On the eve of the US entry into the Second World War, Washington's position was becoming more difficult, as the Mexican government led a policy of nationalizing the oil industry, and assets of foreign oil companies were confiscated by it.
Energy conversion Energy resources must be processed in order to make them suitable for final consumption.
Energy justice frameworks are increasingly applied in the context of global energy transition and climate change mitigation to address inequalities in access to affordable, reliable, and clean energy services .
Left over kWh credits upon termination of service would ideally be paid at retail rate, from the consumer standpoint, and lost, from the utility standpoint, with avoided cost a minimum compromise.
It hosts events centred on sustainable energy production and use, which covers energy efficiency and renewable energy sources for buildings, industry and transport.
This sector contributes to 80 percent of foreign exchange earnings in Botswana, but is heavily influenced by global demand.
Advocacy and activism The IYC has been actively involved in various forms of advocacy, ranging from peaceful protests and negotiations to more militant actions.
In the wake of 9/11, Saudi Arabia hired the lobbying firms Patton Boggs and Qorvis, paying $14 million a year.
To meet advanced energy efficiency standards, such as Passivhaus, wall thicknesses are frequently increased to 400 to 500 mm (16 to 20 in).
Eni appointed liberist economist and Bruno Leoni Institute co-founder Carlo Stagnaro, as well as Polytechnic University of Milan professor Stefano Consonni, as their consultants.
Congress which prohibited: The use of natural gas or petroleum as an energy source in any new electric power plant; and Construction of any new electric power plant without the capability to use coal or any alternate fuel as a primary energy source.
It turns out that the loss of useful energy incurred in thermal electricity plants is very much more than the loss due to, say, resistance in power lines, because of quality differences.
Do you agree that Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos should be re-established, reclaiming state ownership of the Bolivian people's stakes in the part-privatized oil companies, so that it can take part in all stages of the hydrocarbon production chain?
Some people, including the senior vice president Joe Nipper from the American Public Power Association, oppose the idea that people would receive money for power that they did not even spend.
The network comprises local schemes run by not-for-profit organisations, local authorities or waste management companies, in the Community RePaint network.
In 1974, in another reorganization process it was renamed Ministry of Industries and Energy, until in 1991 it received its current structure and was renamed Ministry of Industries, Energy and Mining.
See also Light-on-dark color scheme Performance per watt Comparison of web search engines List of search engines List of search engines by popularity References External links Official website
In the southeastern United States Atlanta Paint Disposal has a paint recycling program with drop off locations in Atlanta, Georgia.
An example of a sustainable energy focused organization encountering such a difficulty is the New Jersey Clean Energy Program, a third-party demand-side management administrator operating in New Jersey.
These reports are submitted every three years with details of achievements on targets reported on an annual basis.
At the 11 December launch, Olsen described the centre as a place to tell the story of the oil and gas industry in Alberta, which includes rebutting its critics respectfully.
This leads to "tricks" to manipulate figures (cost projections of construction, decommissioning and insurance schemes), the extension of the life of the reactors, the reuse of the depleted fuel) in order to conceal the fundamental non-affordability.
Do you agree that the Bolivian State should recover ownership over all hydrocarbons at the wellhead?
It shares that responsibility with the Ministry of Business Affairs (responsible for banking and trade) and the Ministry of Fisheries (fishing making up some 40% of Iceland's exports).
Another approach is to use the 1/3 to 2/3 method mentioned above—to install a vapor retarder on the inside of the existing wall (if there is not one already) and add insulation and support structure to the interior.
Applications Energy justice considerations may be particularly significant in petrostates, where national economies are strongly dependent on fossil fuel revenues and where energy transitions may generate macroeconomic risks and distributional inequalities at the national level.
The innermost circle looks at key forms of justice tied energy systems suggesting principles such as distributive, procedural, restorative, recognition and cosmopolitan justice.
All Members have ratified the treaty except for Australia, Belarus, Norway, and the Russian Federation.
There is "the canyon", a large structure for the chemical extraction of plutonium with the PUREX process.
The Ministry of Energy and Electrification (Minenergo; Russian: Министерство энергетики и электрификации СССР) was a government ministry in the Soviet Union.
List of ministers Source: Ignati Novikov (25.4.1962 - 24.11.1962) Pjotr Neporozhny (26.11.1962 - 23.3.1985) Anatoli Mayorets (24.3.1985 - 17.7.1989) Yuri Semyonov (17.7.1989 - 24.8.1991) == References ==
Energy Access, Poverty, and Development: The Governance of Small-Scale Renewable Energy in Developing Asia (New York: Ashgate, 2012) Sovacool, BK and CJ Cooper.
It annulled most of claims by US and Mexican nationals against the other party's government, except for claims by US oil companies for property nationalized by the Mexican government, which remained to be determined by future agreements.
Since 1992 every year in March experts and decision makers from all over the world flock to Upper Austria to attend the events - in general the conference attracts between 900 and 1,000 participants from 55-60 countries.
The International Institute for Sustainable Development describes the possibility of a withdrawal with neutralization of the survival clause.
Canada has followed France's direction in the organic building technologies sector, and hempcrete has become a growing innovation in Ontario and Quebec.
Nearly 412,000 metric tons/year capacity green hydrogen projects are awarded to produce green hydrogen by the end of 2026.
During March 2017 the American company Global Risk Advisors (GRA) that was formed by an ex-CIA officer by the name of Kevin Chalker, created a plan to fight against U.S.
The Gulf War revealed the importance of a concerted and coordinated global response to an adverse supply shock.
However, less than a year later, lawmakers of the majority Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) legalised same-sex marriage in May 2019.
He denied the charges but was imprisoned for more than a year before being found guilty and sentenced to death by a specially convened tribunal.
Studies have found that own-price elasticity of gas consumption by UK households was two times greater for households in the lowest income decile when compared to the highest decile.
Serious air quality deterioration resulted from the massive use of coal and many Chinese cities suffered severe smog events.
Economist Andrew Leach, who described the centre as a "pro-energy corporation", is providing a rebuttal of truth claims made by the CEC on their website.
An energy minister is a position in many governments responsible for energy production and regulation, developing governmental energy policy, scientific research, nuclear weapons, and natural resources conservation.
In 2010 Fortum lobbied for the total restriction by law of all renewable energy alternatives within the district heating areas.
A more general overview that also includes physical measurement, expert judgement and stakeholder evaluation is presented in the book Building Performance Analysis.
At the 2023 United Nations Climate Change Conference, Palau, Colombia, and Samoa all formally endorsed the treaty.
The 1/3:2/3 rule will ensure that the vapor barrier temperature will not fall below the dew point temperature of the interior air and will minimize the possibility of cold-weather condensation problems.
Recent amendment to Energy Conservation Act in December 2022 included carbon trading provisions, green fuels mandatory use, etc.
Netherlands In 2017, the four parties forming the Rutte III cabinet agreed in their coalition agreement to take all existing coal-fired power plants in the Netherlands off the grid by 2030.
Several studies of Brazilian sugarcane ethanol showed that sugarcane as feedstock reduces GHG by 86 to 90 percent given no significant land use change.
The acting Minister of Industry, Energy and Mining is Fernanda Cardona, who has held the position since March 1, 2025.
In some countries, the minister is part of the cabinet and/or has diplomatic functions in addition to their respective portfolio.
In September 2018, a group in favor of same-sex marriage announced that it had collected enough signatures to submit its own questions to a referendum.
The Registry is supported by the Treaty as an important step in ensuring transparency and accountability in fossil fuel production and reserves.
Most often, the highest quality of latex paint is sorted out and turned back into recycled paint that can be used.
Indeed, the public in the North of England for instance fears "the denial of the deliberation of the values embedded in the development and application of that technology, as well as the future it is working towards" more than risks themselves.
This ultimately led to increased coal demand and much increased coal consumption, even as the amount of coal required for any particular use fell.
Under this legislation energy sent to grid must be used within one year from feed-in, otherwise it is considered as lost.
On 21 March 2022, Minister Savage, who is CEC's "sole voting shareholder", said that the CEC—although not included in the province's proposed budget for 2022-2023—has a budget of approximately $12 million a year.
However, the energy-saving claims, especially for users of LCD screens with a constant backlight, are disputed.
The user pays retail rate for the electricity they use, and the power provider purchases their excess generation at its avoided cost (wholesale rate).
The president of Greenpeace Italy, Giuseppe Onufrio, justified the decision by stating that court cases should focus on influential companies, rather than institutions, to be more effective.
Kazakhstan's electricity system includes 71 power plants with total installed capacity of 18,572 MW.
Firstly, an issue exists about whether risk assessment authorities are able to judge the impact of hydraulic fracturing in public health.
The Ministry of Minerals, Green Technology, and Energy Security (MMGE) is a ministry within the Cabinet of Botswana.
In 2019, Finland enacted a ban of coal use for energy purposes starting on 1 May 2029, ahead of the 2030 schedule discussed earlier.
Depending on its organizational structure and funding source, the SEU can encounter problems when some of its dedicated funds are re-allocated to fill general obligation gaps in, for instance, the state budget.
The events that take place during the World Sustainable Energy Days present the latest technology trends, outstanding examples and European strategies and offer opportunities to establish new partnerships.
Prior to the 1980s, restoration efforts commonly used Portland cement to repair these historic timber frames.
There are, however, large differences between countries regarding inclusion of certain costs, such as on-site storage of fuel and radioactive waste from decommissioning, dismanting of non-radioactive buildings and structures, and transport and (final) disposal of radioactive waste.,p.
The State Committee for Power and Electrification was upgraded to ministerial status (union-republic) in 1965; changed to all-union on 17 July 1987.
The flow chart shows that hydraulic fracking and acid fracking, highlighted in yellow, are two categories of unconventional hydraulic methods.
See also Climate justice Just transition Fossil fuel divestment Climate change in Italy List of environmental lawsuits References External links Case summary at climatecasechart.com Original Writ of Summons (in Italian) Original Writ of Summons (in English) Full documentation on Greenpeace Italy
Thermal properties Hempcrete's R-value (its resistance to heat transfer) can range from 0.67/cm (1.7/in) to 1.2/cm (3.0/in) , making it an efficient insulating material (the higher the R-value, the better the insulation).
The organization's leadership is influential in local and national politics, and its decisions can impact the broader sociopolitical landscape in the Niger Delta.
For example, aluminum smelters in the Pacific Northwest have historically shut down operations during high-price periods to resell their electricity allocation, finding the energy sale more profitable than the production of aluminum.
See also Mining industry of South Africa South African property law References Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002.
Energy Security, Equality and Justice (London: Routledge, 2013) Halff, Antoine, J Rozhon and BK Sovacool (Eds.).
One of the largest organizations in this field, the International Energy Agency (IEA), sells yearly comprehensive energy data which makes this data paywalled and difficult to access for internet users.
In the example of improved vehicle fuel efficiency, the direct effect would be the increased fuel use from more driving as driving becomes cheaper.
Once a facility is decommissioned no radioactive danger persists and it can be released from regulatory control.
producer Venture Global LNG signed a twenty-year contract with China's state-owned Sinopec to supply liquefied natural gas (LNG).
France had set aside only €23 billion for decommissioning and waste storage of its 58 reactors, which was less than a third of 74 billion in expected costs, while the UK's NDA estimated that clean-up of UK's 17 nuclear sites will cost between €109-€250 billion.
New Scientist's Fred Pearce panned the book, calling it "mendacious and frequently anti-scientific", remarking that it "combines hysterical opposition to all things nuclear with an equally deranged climate-change denialism".
Leadership and influence The IYC has produced several notable leaders who have played significant roles in Nigerian politics and the Niger Delta struggle.
Due to this off-site change in the carbon stock of the soil and the biomass, indirect land use change has consequences in the greenhouse gas (GHG) balance of a biofuel.
In August 2017, a group of academics, activists, and analysts issued the Lofoten Declaration which stressed that climate policy and governance required a managed decline of fossil fuel production.
These provide a detailed breakdown of the development of renewable energy by sector and represents actual results as opposed to targets contained in the action plans.
At that time, Ontario had a power plant capacity of 7,500 megawatts on the grid, which corresponded to a quarter of its total capacity.
He received primary education at a Native Authority school in Bori, then attended secondary school at Government College Umuahia.
Minister of Transport / in Finland Merja Kyllönen assigned in 2013 a team led by Jorma Ollila from Royal Dutch Shell to study the future transport economics and car taxation.
It noted that failure to meet the 1.5 °C target would risk "pushing the world towards catastrophic global warming." It also added that the Paris Agreement makes no mention of oil, gas or coal.
The concept integrates principles of social and economic justice, environmental justice and the just transition into energy decision-making processes and highlights the need for inclusive governance in energy infrastructure development.
In parallel to the World Sustainable Energy Days, the Energiesparmesse, an exhibition and trade show dedicated to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, is held.
Reception A central theme of the book is the issue of the true, economic, cost of nuclear electricity.
Power gating incurs energy overhead; therefore, unused circuits need to remain idle long enough to compensate this overheads.
Each NREAP report provides details of the expected share of energy provided by renewable sources up to and including 2020.
Greenpeace report on Eni activities In July 2024, Greenpeace Italy released a report monitoring Eni's involvement in projects of hydrocarbon exploration and extraction of petroleum and gas worldwide, which cited official data from Rystad Energy's database as of November 2023.
The Ministry is made up of 6 departments/sections including the Department of Corporate Services, Department of Mines, Department of Energy, Mineral Affairs Division, Diamond Hub, and Projects & Energy Development Unit.
Processor level techniques The power management for microprocessors can be done over the whole processor, or in specific components, such as cache memory and main memory.
For a proposal to be approved, at least 25 percent of the eligible voters had to vote in favour of the question.
Additional duties that are performed by the Executive Board include organizing all of the Forum's activities.
One case study was undertaken in rural India to evaluate the impact of an alternative energy scheme.
Fears of an uprising led the Bolivian government to take measures essentially forcing the population to vote (announcing fines and other penalties for those who refused or boycotted) and warned that protesters against the referendum would be imprisoned.
One of the main priorities of the Forum was to bring together member-states and private corporations in order to increase awareness of national and international interests, and the workings of the market in order to avoid the instabilities of the previous two decades.
Kazakhstan is also further hampered as the oil pipeline infrastructure is not set up to transport oil from the producing assets in the west to the main refineries located in the east of the country.
Adopted by Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov, this new law would help reduce emissions and help with energy efficient solutions from large companies to small families.
The study used energy and cement production data from BP which they believed to be 'reasonably accurate', while warning that statistics for rapidly changing economies such as China are less reliable than data on OECD countries.
Energy security and domestic energy Energy security measures center on reducing dependence on any one source of imported energy or supplier, exploiting renewable energy resources, and reducing demand by energy conservation.
This approach also limits the amount of interior insulation that can be added to a relatively small amount (e.g., only R-6 insulation can be added to a 2×4 R-12 wall).
The press reported her talks and sometimes referred to her as the "Paiute Princess" or "Indian princess".
The National Institute of Kathak Dance or Kathak Kendra was originally established as the Kathak wing of the Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra in 1955, and was later taken over by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, India's National Academy for Music, Dance and Drama in 1964.
After the Meiji restoration, Nakajima returned to Edo (now Tokyo), where she received an education in waka and calligraphy under Katō Chinami (加藤千浪).
Awards For her contributions to the arts, in 1966, she was awarded the Padma Shri Award, fourth highest civilian honours, by Government of India.
The school notably included Native American students from the Seneca, Ottawa, and Potawatomi tribes, who received full access to the curriculum.
In the following year, they removed to Denver, Colorado, where her husband founded a Methodist church, and became presiding elder at the age of 27 years.
His son, Rafael Gamzo, a member of the Israeli Foreign Service, served as head of the Cultural and Scientific Relations Division (Keshtum) at the Foreign Ministry and as Israel's ambassador to Portugal.
Clapp co-founded Reno's 20th Century Club, which in 1983 was added to the National Register of Historic Places listings in Washoe County, Nevada.
He was President of the school from 1911 to 1918, when he resigned and turned over the position to Aubrey H.
References The Life and Legacy of Joseph Burnett Joseph Burnett Family History descendants History of Joseph Burnett & Company
Gamzu wrote several books on Israeli painting and sculpture, and worked for Haaretz newspaper as an art and theater critic.
In 1912 he purchased an orange grove, soon developed a successful business as the owner of many citrus groves, and reduced his activity as a lawyer.
It was at Walden that he met his wife Ruth, a widow at the time, through her son David, a Walden student whom he later adopted.
1967, he became UBC Director of Continuing Studies and adjunct professor at the Faculty of Education.
In 1871, he built the triangular Hamilton House at Symphony Square Red River, an extant building in Austin Symphony Orchestra's Symphony Square on the banks of Waller Creek.
One of them, Aaron Garon, wrote a memoir about the academy, entitled “Sófye Gurévitsh un ir vílner gimnázye” ("Sofia Gurevich and her Vilna Academy"), that was published in 1995 in Oxford Yiddish 3; he credited Gurevitsh along with his parents for his achievements.
See also African American officeholders from the end of the Civil War until before 1900 References External links Photo circa 1870
Writings Williams had a strong interest in mathematics and philosophy, especially metaphysics, and she published several books centered on metaphysical rumination.
After traveling throughout Europe, she returned home and began teaching at Spinning Private School in South Orange, New Jersey.
In the capital city, she became acquainted with issues concerning women's equity and those that are important to teachers.
He received an honorary degree at Livingstone College; and was honored by Talladega College, which was bestowed by Booker T.
Bettison's family belong to the Cathcarts of Glasgow, Scotland, who, before coming to America in the seventeenth century, had settled in County Antrim, Ireland.
Women workers in India: studies in employment and status, with Leela Kasturi, Sulabha Brahme, Renana Jhabvala.
She was chaplain for two terms in the National Soldiers' Home near Augusta, the first woman who had filled that place, and had an invitation for a third term, when she resigned her pastorate in Hallowell for one in Marlborough, Massachusetts.
A Republican, he served as a Representative in the 12th Legislature, for Fayette County, Texas and Bastrop County from February 9, 1870, to January 14, 1873.
Mando was born June 18, 1846, in Schaghticoke, New York, and lived there until he was nine years old when he moved with his family to Lansingburgh.
While at the seminary, he also took classes in psychology and the history of philosophy at Princeton College, to the distress of some racist students who were attending Princeton from the South.
Waterstone's grandfather, Christian Sharps, was a well-known gunsmith who invented the sharps rifle, a 50-caliber gun used in the western United States to hunt buffalo.
The Presbytery of Fairfield issued Culp with a license on December 4, 1879; he was ordained on December 5, 1879.
Sanford, builder of churches and schools; forceful leader in community service; master of assemblies, able and eloquent minister of the word of God." References Fifty Years of Christian Education In a Baptist School — A Historical Record of Hargrave Military Academy 1909–1959.
Reily was appointed as one of the first trustees of Miami University, and was president of the board of trustees until 1824.
Wintzen said his support of the school was part of a plan to participate in the "immaterial economy." Along with the management team, Wintzen actively participated in the development of the long-term vision and goals for the school.
Calhoun), Martha Bulloch Roosevelt (mother of Theodore Roosevelt), Elizabeth Allston Pringle (daughter of S.C.
Stiles' A History of the City of Brooklyn: Including the Old Town and Village of Brooklyn, the Town of Bushwick, and the Village and City of Williamsburgh (1869) Bibliography Benardo, Leonard; Weiss, Jennifer (July 1, 2006).
Two school books were very successful, Barnets første bog (1879, and several editions thereafter) and Veiledning ved undervisning i samtidig læsning og skrivning efter lyd- og stavemethoden (Guidance on Teaching in Simultaneous Reading and Writing according to the Sound and Spelling method).
Mazumdar died at a hospital in Delhi on May 30, 2013, after a brief illness at the age of 86, and is survived by her children.
This book stands in a Victorian tradition of using fairies to explain the sciences (especially botany, through the folkloric connections between fairies and flowers).
Over the years, he authored several musical compositions and conducted concerts in several large cities.
In 1867, seeing the lack of a medical school in Guayaquil, he founded the Facultad de Medicina del Guayas, personally funding deficits and serving as its first dean.
His name endures at Hargrave Military Academy, where he was active for many years as co-founder, second President, and first chairman of the board of trustees.
In the summer of 1880, with public scholarship funding, she visited several countries to study their teaching methods for the deaf, and, as the only representative from the Nordic countries, she attended the Second International Congress on Education of the Deaf.
She served as principal of the Lansing Female Seminary; taught at Michigan Female College; and was the first instructor and librarian at the University of Nevada, Reno.
Williams' educational experiments drew international interest, and Williams College has been called "the first New Age institute".
They had eleven children; one of their daughters, Julia Tutwiler, became an important educator and advocate of prison reform in Alabama.
After some times he got an invitation to teach at the University of Hawaii and with the help of American friends he finally got a visa for Hawaii.
"Textual Performance and the Western Frontier: Sarah Winnemucca Hopkins's" Life Among the Piutes: Their Wrongs and Claims"." Western American Literature (2002): 170–194.
She organized the state's first private school and was co-founder of the state's first kindergarten.
He founded the "Beit Zvi" School of Performing Arts in Ramat Gan in 1961, and directed it until 1962.
De Blasio, who had served on City of New York's Council Education Committee with Moskowitz for four years, singled out Success Academy in his comments.
In 1953, Bishop William Jacob Walls paid public tribute to Alstork and asked his followers to invest in improvements for Lomax Hannon College which was described as "the soul of the late Bishop".
Waterstone was educated by private tutors before studying at Columbia University and in Jena, Germany.
She was a proponent of desegregated schools where Native American and white students could learn together.
While in Tuscaloosa, he was a member of the Alabama Colonization Society, and he delivered an address to the student literary societies.
Kim also donated land in Cheongdam-dong for the Bukcheong County Association Hall, a community space and student residence for people from his hometown.
Russell Kelly Pitzer was born in Mills County, Iowa, the youngest of four children of Samuel Collins Pitzer and Alice Kelly Pitzer.
James Weldon Johnson, a student at Stanton Institute, later wrote that Culp was an unorganized teacher and administrator, resulting in numerous parents removing their students and Culp's eventual dismissal.
Martinez was recognized with an award from Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education in recognition of his service to Catholic schools.
In his introductory address to the first class of incoming students, Brockenbrough offered this advice: Sooner or later the occasion will arise when you will appear before the dread tribunal of the public.
He was concurrently appointed as clerk for the supreme court of Butler County, a position which he also maintained until 1842.
Selected works Books Than (New York, 1877) The House With Spectacles Patsy Articles "Secrets of Home Breadmaking" "The Rich Goose" References External links Works related to Woman of the Century/Leora Bettison Robinson at Wikisource
Indacochea, a native of Arequipa who worked in the pharmaceutical industry; and Sofía Lozano, a native of Lima.
She wrote articles about early music education, training rhythm bands, and kindersymhonies or toy symphonies.
Kirkland's History of Chicago, Illinois (1895) This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: F.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: D.
He came to New York in 1868 where he studied violin under John Thomas Douglass and various other musical disciplines under various teachers.
Academic career Khan joined the AJK, Mass Communication Research Centre, where he heads the Photography, Multimedia & Audiovisual sections and holds the Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad Chair.
Hans Karl Maeder (December 29, 1909 – September 8, 1988) was an innovative educator who founded the Stockbridge School in Stockbridge, Massachusetts and served as its director and headmaster for 23 years.
In 1790 he moved to Columbia, (now a neighborhood of Cincinnati) to build John Reily's Classical School and became its first school teacher.
Then Martinez studied theology at Weston Jesuit School of Theology in Cambridge, MA from 2004 to 2007, receiving an M.Div.
She was the youngest living daughter of Violetta Bradford and Major Benjamin Stuart Chambers, a lawyer.
Career He was a trustee for several schools for African-Americans, and he emphasized the need for industrial education and training.
In 1908, she was one of the Norwegian representatives who attended the Fourth Conference of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance in Amsterdam.
Associated with Keien court poetry, she founded the Haginoya poetry school (萩の舎, "House of Bush Clover"), the most notable of the poetry conservatories during the Meiji period.
Mary Kimball Morgan (8 December 1861 – 13 October 1948) was an American educator and the founder of The Principia, a K–12 school in St.
Early life and education Lascano was born on 17 July 1840 in Jipijapa, Manabí Province, to José Francisco Lascano, a straw‑hat exporter, and Josefa Bahamonde Gracés, both affluent Guayaquileños.
In 1802 he was also one of the first subscribers who purchased shares to start the Cincinnati Library, one of the first libraries in the state.
He also facilitated the establishment of the International Centre for Policy Studies and remained the head of its Supervisory Board up to 2006.
He organized literacy programs, lectured on temperance, and hosted annual public exhibitions featuring debates and performances.
In 1963 he took the lead in founding Pitzer College, and accordingly, Pitzer College chose the orange tree as its symbol.
After World War I, when it was one of two Yiddish high schools in Vilna, the academy became a co-educational institution.
A History of the City of Brooklyn: Including the Old Town and Village of Brooklyn, the Town of Bushwick, and the Village and City of Williamsburgh (Public domain ed.).
She opened a home school in October 1898, hiring an assistant to teach the older children, and teaching the younger ones herself.
in School Leadership at Harvard University in 2008 and he received the Intellectual Contribution Award given by the School Leadership Program.
Richard Ayscough, was a surgeon in the British army, and her mother was a Langdon, while a still more remote ancestor was a Cuyler, one of the original Dutch settlers from Holland.
External links Centre for Women's Development Studies, website Vina Mazumdar, Documentary Sparrow, India Duration: 92.07 min; Director: Vishnu Mathur; Genre: Documentary; Produced In: 2003.
(May 10, 1970 – November 28, 2014) was an American Jesuit priest and the founding President of Cristo Rey Jesuit College Preparatory of Houston.
Initially, the school was funded exclusively by Wintzen, who invested roughly $20 million into the project.
Intended as a rigorous classical and preparatory academy, it addressed a critical educational gap in Summit County.
He was buried in a mausoleum in the General Cemetery of Guayaquil, and a bronze bust was placed at the old medical school entrance.
Educational initiatives On April 18, 1972, Kim established the Haechung Educational Foundation and became its first chairman.
Instead of aiming for freedom and independence of thought, our formal education imposes a pattern on the growing mind—puts it into a universal mold.
Marks was able to get guards assigned to Barhamville for protection against drunken, ill-intentioned soldiers and civilians.
The Jews of South Carolina shifted their allegiance from the nation to the state as the Civil War approached.
The next year, he bought from Cato, a Native American, for the sum of five pounds, a tract of land, now the town of Sudbury, Massachusetts.
Alejo Lascano Bahamonde (17 July 1840 – 3 December 1904) was an Ecuadorian surgeon, medical educator, and philanthropist.
In the 1930s Vilna came under Polish control and Yiddish educational establishments in general were banned.
Haim Gamzu (Hebrew: חיים גמזו; May 18, 1910 – February 16, 1982) (also Haim Gamzou) was an Israeli art and drama critic, founder of the "Beit Zvi" Theater School and one of the founders of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art building on King Saul Boulevard.
Career The year after graduating, she went to Tennessee as a teacher, but her career was cut short by the approach of the American Civil War.
Knute Bjarne Buttedahl (April 9, 1925 – March 11, 2000) was a Canadian expert on global education and international development, and faculty professor of adult education at the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver BC, Canada.
Moskowitz said that there is a need for more charter schools with socio-economic and racial diversity considering that New York City schools are "shockingly segregated".
Biography Nakajima Utako was born in 1844 (or 1841), the second daughter of Nakajima Matazaemon (中島又左衛門).
It was attached to the National College of Women, later renamed in honor of as Francisco Antonio de Zela.
From the age of 17, Reily served in the Revolutionary War, including the Battle of Camden, the Battle of Guilford Court House, and the Battle of Eutaw Springs.
Burnett was also a manufacturer of pharmacy and foods and the family remained in business for over a century.
Her father-in-law Lala Shri Ram had established educational institutions like Lady Shri Ram College (established 1956), Shri Ram College of Commerce (established 1926).
He authored books in the field of fine arts, as well as a book describing his travels in South America, entitled "The Poetry of the Kitzel," which was published in 1949.
In 1949, she returned to Tacna, where she served as director of the National Women's College, a position she held until 1953, when she definitively moved away from that city.
Edward's wife was Mabel Lowell, the daughter of American writer and diplomat James Russell Lowell, who inherited her father's house Elmwood, currently home to the President of Harvard University.
1968, Professor of Adult Education, at UBC, participated at Glendon College, Conference on Canadian Education, York University.
Early life and education Annelizah (nickname, "Annie") Chambers was born near Georgetown, Kentucky, November 8, 1824, in Scott County, Kentucky.
In an interview with MarketWatch, Moskowitz said that education was mostly a matter for the state and local governments, but that she would continue to form new conceptions of public education considering its importance as a civil rights issue.
Her husband died of tuberculosis on October 18, 1887, and was buried in Lovelock at the Lone Mountain Cemetery.
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: Hanaford, Phebe Ann (1883).
Elias and Julia were among the 19th century pioneers in female education whose "courage and foresight ...
Zion Church) and is considered one of the most successful bishops of his church, in part due to his skills at organizing national conferences.
She returned to Lima, where she assumed the position of director of Colegio Nacional de Mujeres Elvira García y García.
In 1910 she added a two-year college, one of the first in America, which expanded to a four year college in 1932.
"One-fourth of the Confederate army was killed by war or disease; the basis of wealth, slaves, was eliminated by emancipation." Few planters could afford to send their daughters to an expensive school.
She was a member (the only woman) of the school commission set up by Minister Johan Sverdrup that was to prepare the Folkeskole Act of 1889.
Thus in the coming years, Jhankar provided patronage to leading musicians and artists of the time by organising musical concerts and dance performances.
Young Culp was a favorite of Brandon, who used to have the youth share his bed and also taught him to read.
Leora Bettison Robinson (née, Bettison; June 8, 1840 – January 19, 1914) was an American author and educator of the long nineteenth century.
Two months before her course of study was finished in Canton, she received a call from the Universalist Church in Hallowell, Maine, to become its pastor when she left Canton.
Biography Born in Minsk, her father was a lumber merchant, wealthy enough to send her to a school for aristocratic women in St Petersburg, Russia where she studied pedagogy and natural sciences.
Some sources add that de Xainctonge herself asked that her personal writings be burned after her death.
Kimball served as president of the school and college until 1937 when her son Frederic took over and she was named president emeritus.
During school vacations, she gave a series of popular lectures which then paid for the girls school's equipment for chemistry, physics and astronomy.
Upon receiving his law degree in 1903, he returned to Pomona and joined a law firm in Pomona, later serving a term as city attorney in Claremont.
The children born to Joseph Burnetts wife were Edward, Harry, Robert Manton, Waldo, Esther, Ruth, Charles Cutler, John Torrey, Louise and Elinor.
A representative of a Success Academy charter school that shares the same building with a zoned public school in Brooklyn, New York, said that they did use out-of-school suspension for kindergartners and first graders.
It was won by the team he was leading, consisting of two of his students at AJK Mass Communication Research Centre, Jamia in 2009.
Immortelles of Catholic Columbian Literature: Compiled from the Work of American Catholic Women Writers (Public domain ed.).
Around the year 1877, she founded the school of Haginoya, where she mainly trained women of the upper and middle class.
Early life and background She was born on Diwali day in 1917 to Raja Jwala Prasad and Rani Bhagyawati in Meerut in United Provinces, now in Uttar Pradesh.
In lieu of a religious habit, she and her companions adopted the simple black dress of the Spanish widows everywhere visible in the region of Dole, so as to render them inconspicuous in the streets on the rare occasions they had to leave the house.
Martinez was inducted into the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre, a papal knighthood, for founding Cristo Rey Jesuit.
Civil War Following his resignation from the federal bench, Brockenbrough became one of Virginia's delegates to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States from 1861 to 1862.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: H.
An uncloistered order of women, operating a free school for girls, was a new idea at that time, and de Xainctonge met with a great deal of resistance.
Published papers of the scientist include more than 100 articles in management, managerial education, economic and political environment.
In 1837, he published two volumes of reports, containing the decisions of John Marshall's federal circuit court opinions.
As their separation continues, it appears that Diocles and Agnesi are not receiving each other's letters, but they continue their correspondence nonetheless.
She is particularly remembered in Tacna, where she founded a Women's Normal School, and served as director of the National Women's College.
Alstork died on July 23, 1920, in Searcy, Alabama, and is buried in Oak Hill Cemetery (now Oakwood Cemetery) in Montgomery, Alabama.
In 1980, the school where she served as the first superintendent, the Pioneer School House, was added to the National Register of Historic Places.
Documenting Reality: Metaphors of Life Khan delivered a lecture in Lucknow at the Lalit Kala Academy, talking about the importance of sound effects, the direction of light, and relation with characters to take a good picture.
She returned north to her native town, Georgetown, Kentucky, and there opened a normal school for advanced pupils.
In the early 1960s, Kim began acquiring farmland in what later became the Gangnam district of Seoul, then largely agricultural land.
She and her step-sister Nicole were entrusted with the care of the poultry-yard, cellar, and fruit-rooms.
She left Vilna for Russia, where she had two brothers who were senior officials in the Ministry for Heavy Industry.
Contribution to Cinema, Media and Academics During his career as an academic he has taught Shah Rukh Khan, Roshan Abbas, Barkha Dutt, Kabir Khan, Loveleen Tandan, Aseem Mishra and Saurabh Narang.
You are called to participate in the management of a cause which excites a profound public interest.
Meyer's success inspired the formation of similar deaconess-training programs, such as the New England Deaconess Home and Training School in Boston, Massachusetts (founded 1889) and the Methodist Deaconess Home in Toronto, Canada (founded 1894).
Kim was a key member of the Janghanpyeong Farmland Improvement Association, a consortium of landowners and entrepreneurs, many of whom had origins in North Korea.
She attended various public schools as well as the New Hampton Literary Institution (a college-preparatory school) and the Upham Theological Seminary.
He was known for founding software company BSO/Origin, co-founding Ex'pression College, and contributing to the success of Ben & Jerry's Benelux, Wired, and Greenwheels.
Subsequently, she joined the University Grants Commission Secretariat, New Delhi as an Education Officer and became a Fellow of the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies, Shimla, for the research project, 'University Education and Social Change in India' (April 1970 – Dec.
In 1813, she was the principal founder and the first directress of the Loisian Seminary and therefore, indirectly, was the founder of the first public school ever established in Brooklyn.
Initially, he instructed a small group in a log house, but increasing demand quickly led him to construct a dedicated school.
To help express Maeder's philosophy, and in light of his experiences as a German refugee and expatriate, the school flew the United Nations flag just below the American flag beginning in 1948, three years after the U.N.
Public service and honors Lascano was elected senator for the provinces of Manabí and Esmeraldas, though professional duties prevented active participation.
Satella Sharps Waterstone (February 1875 – June 15, 1938) nicknamed "Miss Birda", was an American author, composer, and teacher.
Hamilton (July 1, 1838 – 1905) was a school founder, carpenter, political organizer, and legislator in Texas.
Successfully editing the Union Signal for several years afterward, her health became impaired, and with her two daughters, she spent a year in Berlin, Germany.
Biography Nellie May Kimball, who went by Mary, was born in Janesville, Wisconsin on December 8, 1861.
"'I Would Rather Be with My People, but Not to Live with Them as They Live': Cultural Liminality and Double Consciousness in Sarah Winnemucca Hopkins's" Life among the Piutes: Their Wrongs and Claims," American Indian Quarterly (1998): 259–279.
Her works include 近代の女性文学者たち (鎬を削る自己実現の苦闘; Kindai no josei bungakushatachi: shinogi o kezuru jiko jitsugen no kutō), 萩のしつく (中嶋歌子先生遺稿; Hagi no shizuku: Nakajima Utako Sensei ikō), 文学者の手紙.
Thomas Ryland Sanford (September 4, 1878 – April 8, 1952) was the first President and Founder of the Chatham Training School, known since 1925 as Hargrave Military Academy.
Vanilla extract was previously imported from France and made by processes which were proprietary secrets.
She had intended to become a Methodist medical missionary but changed her mind after her then-fiancé died in 1875.
When the Paiute were interned in a concentration camp at Yakima, Washington after the Bannock War, she traveled to Washington, D.C.
In 1978 the school campus became the site of the DeSisto at Stockbridge School, a wholly unrelated institution.
The school gained a high reputation for the quality of its instruction and because of Tutwiler's decision, unusual for the time, to admit a few young women—including his daughters.
In 1976, Hawrylyshyn was awarded Doctorate of Economics of University of Geneva, Honorary Doctorate of Law of University of York (Canada) in 1984 and University of Alberta (Canada) in 1986.
At the end of his life, Hawrylyshyn focused on youth organizations through the Bohdan Hawrylyshyn Charitable Foundation.
Sanford was a deeply religious man, and devoted the majority of his life to work as a pastor in various Virginia churches, such as the Chaptham Baptist Church.
He entered the first class of the University of Virginia, and following graduation with a master's degree in 1831 became a professor at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: J.
In 1847 he founded a private school for boys, the Greene Springs School for Boys near Havana, Alabama, in what was then Greene County.
Polk on December 23, 1845, to a seat on the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia vacated by Judge Isaac S.
He is best known for his lifelong commitment to accessible, advanced education, which he implemented as the founder and sole director of the Twinsburg Institute in Twinsburg, Ohio.
Sony World Photography Awards, Cannes He brought to India the World Photography Award – Student Focus at the Palais des Festival in Cannes, defeating finalists from all the other continents.
In 1883 he founded the Mando Mozart Conservatory of Music located in New York City, a classical music school for African Americans.
Two years before her death, a strong article she wrote, entitled "Public Schools Remodeled", was widely copied in the Florida press.
After graduating from Pukchong Public Agricultural School in 1928, he founded Dongyang Cotton Store, a textile retail business, with his father's support.
She was born in Albany, New York in 1824, and arrived in Carson City in 1860, where she established the Sierra Seminary.
Later, Doctor Hawrylyshyn received an award of the Engineering Hall of Distinction of University of Toronto (Canada).
In addition, he served as a project manager and field expert for the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), UNESCO Canada and UNICEF Canada; assisting initiatives in Africa, Asia and Latin America dedicated to Global citizenship education.
Beatification process Due to her work she was considered a candidate for beatification soon after her death, but the French Revolution and other wars of the period led to the destruction of many documents.
Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Organization of American States (OAS); extending services worldwide by implementing project with teams of multidisciplinary consultants and university interns.
Later, she taught at Berhampur University, where she was appointed upon the recommendation of Professor Bidhu Bhusan Das, her friend from Oxford University, who was Director of Public Instruction, Odisha, at the time.
He was the founder of Pitzer College in Claremont, California, an early benefactor of the Pomona Valley Community Hospital (now the Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center) in Pomona, and a noted philanthropist of other local causes in the Pomona Valley.
In his own words, he wanted to "put technology at the service of inter-human warmth." He died of heart failure in 2008, while on vacation in France.
They became the Success Academy network's key funders that contributed to its growth starting with Harlem Success Academy.
She would never marry, per law that women teachers either had to be "married to the students" or leave the field to be married.
In the process, she became critical of the way children are taught, writing: "The real issue in education ...
Culp and his mother were enslaved by Christopher Brandon, who was so lenient that other whites referred to the people he enslaved as "Brandon's free Negroes".
In 1889, she published a history of the female diaconate, Deaconesses: Biblical, Early Church, European, American.
Advising Eckart advised many entrepreneurs, and served on the boards of commercial and non-profit organizations including the Dianne Fossey Gorilla Fund and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
In speaking of her graduating essay, entitled "A Farewell From the Other End of the Class", George D.
Color name tags were also designed and attached to each model in place of the original folded paper name tags.
Principal photography began in Wilmington, North Carolina, on April 25, 2011, with some filming occurring at the Jungle Rapids water park and the Shaw-Speaks community center.
Western Kansas, 1918: Charles Sternberg and his sons Levi and George discover a 29-foot-long Tylosaurus that had a Dolichorhynchops in it.
North Dakota, 1995: Two amateur collectors go into a cave in North Dakota, and find a wealth of teeth from sharks, specifically Cretoxyrhina and Squalicorax.
Adaptations ITV commissioned a television series based on the books, with a planned air date of 2009, but it was later cancelled.
The story's time traveller who views this new refuse-covered habitat is gruesomely attacked by ravenous flesh-eating crows.
The percussion base was borrowed from Goldsmith's original motifs and he further used oil drums with the notion of the oil drum existing in the fictional kingdom.
The planet's ecosystem exhibits several unique adaptations, most notably the ability for all living organisms to detect and avoid solar flares.
Awards The Grierson Awards 2009, Winner, Best Science Documentary References External links Charles Darwin and the Tree of Life at IMDb Charles Darwin and the Tree of Life on the Eden website
External links Super Bonk 2 at The Bonk Compendium (covering all games and references to Bonk series) Super Bonk / Super Genjin Archived 2013-01-13 at the Wayback Machine at Hardcore Gaming 101 == References ==
The naked actors and married couple became famously known for their appearances in the 1991 sexually explicit educational video The Lovers' Guide.
This type of programming receives particular criticism when, as in the original broadcast of Mermaids: The Body Found, there are only a few, easily missed disclaimers to indicate the speculative nature of the programming.
At the foot of the pagoda forest there is a completely different ecosystem, governed by bioluminescent beings.
The film grossed $208,545,589 in the US & Canada and $500,290,000 in other countries, for a worldwide total of $708,835,589.
Box office The film made a small impact during its debut weekend in the United Kingdom, with receipts of just £242,889, placing it at number 8.
Ballantine Books (1976) Ballantine Books was the licensed publisher of Return to the Planet of the Apes tie-in fiction.
See also Last and First Men, book of Olaf Stapledon All Tomorrows, book of C.M Kosemen Man After Man, book of Dougal Dixon Human evolution References Dixon, Dougal (2002-03-14).
The book is written in the form of a field guide and natural history of the version of Skull Island and its creatures as presented in the film.
Gameplay Release and reception Super Genjin 2 was released for the Super Famicom in Japan on July 28, 1995.
This assumption is often referred to by critics as carbon chauvinism, as it may be possible for life to form that is not based on carbon.
Extraterrestrial mutants Ariel Broo Cerise Deathbird Longshot Thanos Ultra Girl Warlock Non-human Earth mutants Crosta Devil Dinosaur Don the Lobster Moon-Boy Val-Or Other mutations Children of the Vault: A species of super-powered beings created from a temporally accelerated cargo ship.
Rhinogradentia is a fictitious order of extinct shrew-like mammals invented by German zoologist Gerolf Steiner.
Episode novelizations (1974) Short story adaptations of Planet of the Apes (TV series) episodes written by George Alec Effinger.
Mock taxidermies of rhinogrades have also been included in an exhibit at the Musée d'ethnographie de Neuchâtel, and in the permanent collections of the Musée zoologique de la ville de Strasbourg and the Salzburg Haus der Natur.
This allows the user to catch fish and use selective breeding and mutation to create fish to their own tastes for placing them in virtual aquariums.
Wells' The Time Machine By the year AD 802,701, humanity has diverged into two separate species: the Eloi and the Morlocks.
251 Mya: start of the age of the dinosaurs The ninth station describes the Permian–Triassic extinction event that paved the way for the Mesozoic era and the evolution of dinosaurs.
They do not perform much work, except to feed, play, and mate, and are characterized by apathy; when Weena falls into a river, none of the other Eloi move to help her (she is rescued instead by the Time Traveller).
The Planet of the Apes novels began with Pierre Boulle's novel La Planète des singes was translated and reprinted several times after its original publication in 1963.
956" (from the turbulent section of Adagio used as the sublime second movement) was one of its haunting orchestral themes ever written also arranged by Irish classical music group The Vanbrugh Quartet with English cellist Louise Hopkins.
Series concept and scientific basis At the start of the documentary, the presenter and team of scientists draw attention to their reasons for speculating about life on extrasolar planets.
The album features musical score composed by John Paesano and was released through Hollywood Records alongside the film on May 10, 2024.
In the 1978 television film Sunn Classic Pictures produced the television film The Time Machine in 1978.
Reception The iOS version received "unfavorable" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.
Theodore Sturgeon praised The Invincible as "SF in the grand tradition", saying "The science is hard.
After Kyle refuses to save her because of his fear of piranhas, Barry, despite being unable to swim, leaps down and brings her to the surface, at which point Maddy is revived.
Recording Holopainen, Hietala and audio engineer Tero (TeeCee) Kinnunen recorded a 12-song demo from late April to 14 May 2014.
They were attempting to create software for INTEC (a company that they started) that would be made for "people's souls".
The game turn structure Each turn of the game consists of four phases: During each phase players act in order moving clockwise.
It is the sequel to the 2011 film Rise of the Planet of the Apes, which began 20th Century Fox's reboot of the original Planet of the Apes series.
He returns to his own time after completing his mission and again goes to the future to reunite with Weena.
Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is a 2014 American science fiction film directed by Matt Reeves and written by Mark Bomback, Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver.
HAL's point of view shots were created with a Cinerama Fairchild-Curtis wide-angle lens with a 160° angle of view.
In Greg Bear's Moving Mars In Greg Bear' Moving Mars novel, "Eloi" is a nickname for the age-extenders who leave Earth for Mars in order to avoid age restrictions on Earth.
Piranha 3DD was released in the United Kingdom on May 11, 2012, and in the United States on June 1, 2012, by Dimension Films.
The depiction is followed by a microscopic view of human fertilization, helping to explain the defensive behaviours of the ovum to prevent multiple sperm cells from fertilizing it.
Early on in the process, there was also talk of having many of the dinosaurs be more upright, an outdated idea in-line with their appearance in the original film, but this idea was eventually scrapped.
Jarzębski comments that the novel demonstrates that the advantage of humans is not in the ability to annihilate the enemy but in the "ability to stop", to overcome the Darwinian instinct of struggle for an advantage.
A section is completed after the player eats a certain amount of DNA material from other life forms.
The estates of both Clarke and 2001: A Space Odyssey director Stanley Kubrick were reported as having "offered their full support", but the extent of their involvement was not known at the time.
The cast featured new voice actors for the characters of Grug (Dan Milano), Ugga (Cree Summer), Eep (Stephanie Lemelin), Thunk (A.J.
A disgruntled miner, Gwyllm Griffiths, volunteers for an experiment that will enable the professor to create a being with enhanced mental capabilities.
And it's one I think an awful lot of fathers might relate to...I should say that there's very little to fear from this movie.
At the close of the story, Poole and other humans land on Europa to start peaceful relations with the primitive native Europans.
When the experiment proved to be a failure and the Quiet Council of Krakoa found out about it, Sinister is undeterred in his next plans to research the Chimeras.
In development phase player can add a new animal to an existing species dividing it into two separate independent species.
The first episode concentrates on Homo erectus, set in India around 75,000 years ago, life after a catastrophic super-volcanic eruption made food animals scarce and Homo erectus encounters a different species of human.
As the series progresses, the investigators realize that the sinkholes are a spacetime portal to the same location in 10,000 BC.
He often depicted the space and planets with pink, purple, blue and other strong colors, with the presence of "Kirby Krackles" in several pannels.
At one point, Beast states that the X-Gene is located on the 23rd chromosome; the process described is that the gene activates mutation producing a protein stimulating chemical signals which induce mutations on other genes.
On January 3, 2003, after examining more than 60 action figures, Judge Judith Barzilay ruled in their favor, granting Toy Biz reimbursement for import taxes on previous toys.
They crash in an asteroid between Mars and Jupiter, where they find ruins of an ancient civilization.
Meanwhile, the monoliths—implied to have been forgotten by their creators when they ascended to a higher state of being—continued to watch over their subjects.
With a melody by Peter Sohren from 1668, originally used for "Bis hierher hat mich Gott gebracht" (EG 329), it became a Christian hymn.
Located in Plön, Germany, the Evolution Path is composed of 11 dual-language English/German stations extending around the Großer Plöner See.
They evolved from "primordial soup", and over the course of millions of years became a space-faring species.
The programme drew effusive praise from critics: In The Guardian, Sam Wollaston describes how Attenborough tells the story of natural selection "through the life and work of his hero, and also through his own life and work, which has always had Darwinism at its core.
The US Customs Service claimed that the "non-human characteristics" were insufficient in transforming the characters into non-humans.
When the mutation process begins to operate independently of the professor's influence, Gwyllm takes control of the experiment.
Absalom Burke Candra Crule Gideon Nicodemus Saul Selene Apocalypse "Homo superior superior" Introduced in Chris Claremont's X-Treme X-Men, Vargas claims to be humanity's natural response to mutants.
Enterprise arrives at the Valakian homeworld, where they are met by Esaak, the Valakian director of a clinic, and Larr, a Menk orderly.
Plants can grow: the number of red food left on a plant determine the number of plant in next development phase.
A translation into German was published in 1967; an English translation by Wendayne Ackerman, based on the German one, was published in 1973.
Sea Monsters: A Prehistoric Adventure (also called Sea Monsters) is a 2007 American IMAX 3D documentary film by National Geographic, about prehistoric marine reptiles.
The film originally also featured radiators but Kubrick removed them since he wanted to avoid the appearance of "wings" on a spacecraft intended for deep space missions only.
Michael Ohl wrote that the book is written "in truly amusing attention to detail and using what is immediately recognizable as a practiced scientific patois".
Instead, out of love for him, Cathy reverses the process at the last second, bringing Gwyllm back to his former self.
Plot Planet of the Apemen: Battle for Earth is a dramatised documentary on how Homo sapiens once shared the world with other species of hominid.
Synopsis On September 26, 2021, a massive sinkhole opens in the middle of Los Angeles at the site of the La Brea Tar Pits and Wilshire Boulevard, pulling many people, vehicles and buildings, including the Petersen Automotive Museum, into its depths.
The album features nine tracks from the score, as well as an alternate version of the track "The Foraging." In addition, the album features three bonus tracks, all of additional takes of other tracks on the album.
A decision that the X-Men figures indeed do have 'nonhuman' characteristics further proves our characters have special, out-of-this world powers".
Successfully mimicking a genuine scientific work, Rhinogradentia has appeared in several publications without any note of its fictitious nature, sometimes in connection with April Fools' Day.
Furthermore, EA Games president Frank Gibeau announced that maximum install limit would be increased from 3 to 5 and that it would be possible to de-authorize and move installations to new machines, citing the need to adapt their policy to accommodate their legitimate customers.
When threatened, they can assemble into huge clouds, travel at a high speed, and even climb to the top of the troposphere.
It stars Andy Serkis, Jason Clarke, Gary Oldman, Keri Russell, Toby Kebbell, Kodi Smit-McPhee, and Kirk Acevedo.
Adaptations In 2009, Audible.com produced an audio version of Galapagos, narrated by Jonathan Davis, as part of its Modern Vanguard line of audiobooks.
Rain was only handed HAL's lines instead of the full script, and recorded them across a day and a half.
The first airings of the two Mermaids programs apparently gathered the attention of millions of people and also drew some of Animal Planet's largest audiences ever.
This shortened version of the script was only 40 pages long (one page roughly equaling one minute of screentime).
The film strongly resembles the 1950s films of The Bowery Boys, because director William Beaudine and writers Tim Ryan and Edmond Seward were moonlighting from that popular series at the time, as was ingenue Charlita.
Production The episode was written by husband and wife writing team Maria and Andre Jacquemetton, who previously wrote the episode Breaking the Ice.
The song is part of hymnals in German, including the Protestant Evangelisches Gesangbuch (1995) as EG 506, and the Catholic Gotteslob (2013), as GL 463, in the section Schöpfung (Creation).
He and Nona start out for the village, leaving Sammy in the laboratory with the gorilla, who pantomimes to Sammy that he is really Duke.
The release was authorized by the family of North, the estate of Stanley Kubrick, Dylanna Music, North's music publishing company, and other entities (the film's current rights holder, Turner Entertainment, did not take part in this CD release).
Even if one likes some of the choices Kubrick made for certain individual scenes, the eclectic group of classical composers employed by the director...
The Eloi live a banal life of ease on the surface of the Earth while the Morlocks live underground, tending machinery and providing food, clothing, and inventory for the Eloi.
Video games A video game based on the film, titled The Croods: Prehistoric Party!, was released on March 19, 2013.
Game scenarios "Divergence" scenario Extra "Divergence" rule for experienced persons makes gameplay more similar to evolution process because "divergent evolution" game mechanics is added.
It is the sequel to Super Bonk and the fifth platform game in the Bonk series, and the second game in the series overall never to be released outside Japan.
Plot Jungle-dwelling natives find two long-haired, bearded men dressed in frayed tuxedos asleep in the jungle, and carry the men to their chief and his daughter who insists on protecting them.
A group of girls from a cannibal tribe living in the Amazon rainforest, called the Kanka-bono girls also end up on the ship, eventually having children with sperm obtained from the ship's captain.
"X'd Out" When a former Singularity employee came to X-Factor Investigations and related that Tryp is attempting to recreate the Legacy Virus, the plague that killed several mutants, including, briefly, Madrox himself, Strong Guy is sent to drive the man to safety.
The plot of Futurama has similarities, with the character of Fry being frozen for 1000 years (albeit in 1999) and waking in the year 3000.
When Layla Miller revealed what truly happened to Callisto and Marrow, Rictor used his powers to expel the Terrigen crystals from Quicksilver's body (except for one, which Quicksilver kept) at the cost of his powers.
It was produced by Keshet Studios and Universal Television and created and executive produced by David Appelbaum.
However, the duo was cut out from working on Piranha 3DD by Bob and Harvey Weinstein because the plans for the sequel were deemed too expensive; the Weinsteins wanted to make a low-budget sequel.
The book features extensive artwork and descriptions of the different animals catalogued during these expeditions, descendants of various prehistoric animals that at different times in the past migrated to the island.
Guitarist Emppu Vuorinen said soon after rehearsals began, "I don't know if it has something to do with age – but the need to show off has diminished even more.
In this final episode, the last remaining lines which focused about dealing with various aspects of human behaviour when Morris said: Of all the millions of species that have ever lived, we the human animal, are by far the most extraordinary.
The second stanza begins "Mein Auge sieht, wohin es blickt, die Wunder deiner Werke" (My eye sees wherever it looks the miracles of Your works), with the following stanzas naming examples, concluding with man as body and mind ("Leib und Geist").
Shatterstar's origin and relationship to Longshot and Dazzler is reviewed: He was Longshot's genetic source, as well as his son with Dazzler, created a paradox where as Shatterstar is both Longshot's "father" / clone and his son with different DNA.
The user can also procedurally generate background music for their tank using an in-game composer, or choose a separate MIDI music file to be played for each virtual aquarium, and feed the fish.
Later, Dolly's brother is swallowed whole by a young Tylosaurus, who in turn is killed by a larger member of its kind, leaving Dolly alone.
According to Cohen, Broder offered to sell Hal Wallis the film's negative for a substantial amount of money.
Certain iPod devices use the click wheel as an input method, and users of the iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPod Nano may use the accelerometer.
They got attacked by Hela but were rescued by Thor and successfully rescues Pip with help from Darwin.
Each round starting from the first player and going clockwise in order players play the top card from the player's deck.
Mermaids: The Body Found is a pseudo-documentary television program originally aired on American TV channels Animal Planet (May 27, 2012) and Discovery Channel (June 17, 2012).
Spore: Galactic Edition, a special edition of the game; includes a Making of Spore DVD video, How to Build a Better Being DVD video by National Geographic Channel, The Art of Spore hardback mini-book, a fold-out Spore poster and a 100-page Galactic Handbook published by Prima Games.
Craig Hartranft, founder of Dangerdog Music Reviews, called Endless Forms Most Beautiful "pretty darn terrific".
Ratings Mermaids: The Body Found received 1.9 million views during its US telecast premiere on May 27, 2012.
The player can travel by clicking on other planets and moons and stars, though each jump costs energy.
References External links German Wikisource has original text related to this article: Wenn ich, o Schöpfer, deine Macht Gotteslobvideo (GL 463): Wenn ich, o Schöpfer, deine Macht on YouTube Meinrad Walter: "'Wenn ich, o Schöpfer, deine Macht' (GL 463)" Amt für Kirchenmusik Freiburg
Wells' novel The Time Machine, knowing that like the remaining plants and animals, they too will become extinct as well.
The models feature an informational hang tag providing scientific details about the animal represented by the replica.
In the 2002 film Another movie with the same name was produced by Arnold Leibovit and directed by Simon Wells in 2002.
"Dear Doctor" is the thirteenth episode of the first season of the American science fiction television series Star Trek: Enterprise, and originally aired on January 23, 2002, on UPN.
On 28 April 2009, Variety reported that an animated feature film was in production at Illumination Entertainment, known for its 2010 summer blockbuster Despicable Me.
Bowman is given a wide variety of sights, from the wreckage of ancient civilizations to what appear to be life-forms, living on the surface of a red giant star.
A starting point for Gellert was the hymn "Sei Lob und Ehr dem höchsten Gut" (Praise and honour be to the highest good" (EG 326), but Gellert phrased freely and independently.
Plot Brings to life some of the most bizarre, ferocious and fascinating creatures to ever inhabit the ocean.
It was also available as a VHS format of the programme released by BBC Video on 3 April 1995, containing six episodes in a dual cassette edition with the running time of 293 minutes.
Chandra explains the danger, and HAL willingly sacrifices himself so that the astronauts may escape safely.
And the filmmakers have a hoot playing with the Croods' encounters with, as well as their misunderstandings of, all things new." Paul Asay of Plugged In gave the film a positive review, stating "The Croods is, first and foremost, Grug's story.
After HAL tells him "This mission is too important for me to allow you to jeopardize it", Bowman circumvents HAL's control, entering the ship by manually opening an emergency airlock with his service pod's clamps, detaching the pod door via its explosive bolts.
In 1997, most older models received updated molds that utilized color vinyl, and some were repainted with new color schemes, while a few others were retired.
Blimble Sprent: A yellow, fast-moving Flanimal without arms that sprints everywhere, avoiding its destination until it dies of exhaustion at the very spot where it started.
On the contrary, the serious tone of the majority of the presentation implied that it was a factual documentary.
It was developed concurrently with Stanley Kubrick's film version and published after the release of the film.
Many of these parts affect the creature's abilities (speed, strength, diet, etc.), while some parts are purely decorative.
A portion of the book written for the New Review version, later published as a separate short story, reveals that a visit by the Time Traveller to the even more distant future results in his encountering rabbit-like hopping herbivores, apparently the descendants of the Eloi.
Production of the Carnegie Collection began in 1988, when Forest Rogers was first contracted to sculpt the models.
The reviewer, an aquarium owner, criticized the "software toy" on its "inability to sustain the player's interest.
North did not know of the abandonment of the score until after he saw the film's premiere screening.
Lifeforms of the Blue Moon Skywhales are prey to the insect-like caped Stalkers, colony-living predators that have several different tasks.
The world's first exposure to North's unused music was in 1993 via Telarc's issue of the main theme on Hollywood's Greatest Hits, Vol.
See also Devolution – Notion that species can revert to primitive forms Dysgenics – Decrease in genetic traits deemed desirable References Moore, Lorrie (October 6, 1985).
Pettersson-Skämtkvist's early descriptions of the animals he encountered on Hy-yi-yi led zoologists to name them after the title creature in Christian Morgenstern's The Nasobame.
The album includes only five Nightwish members, despite its being their first album release as a sextet.
Earning a total of $400 million, it is the highest grossing 2013 film distributed by 20th Century Fox.
In September 2008, it was reported that Sanders took over How to Train Your Dragon putting Crood Awakening on hold, and thus postponing its original schedule for a year to a then planned March 2012.
The Wētā designers created several hundred drawings and sculptures of creatures and a large number of designs never made it into the final film.
He died once more and found himself the apprentice of Doctor Strange, who had just died at the hands of Dormammu.
Charles Darwin and the Tree of Life is a 2009 television documentary about Charles Darwin and his revolutionary theory of evolution through natural selection, produced by the BBC to mark the bicentenary of Darwin's birth.
Bednarz adapted the lens design from an earlier lens he had designed for military training to simulate human peripheral vision coverage.
That is why I call my students...X-Men, for Ex-tra power!" This issue also features the first reference to mutants as the species "Homo Superior" by Magneto.
Although "Dear Doctor" received the same audience share as the previous episode, there was a 6.6% drop in viewers to 5.7 million viewers for its first broadcast.
David Bowman/Star-Child: First Captain of the Discovery, an American spacecraft which had previously been intended to visit the Jupiter system, but which has recently instead been charged with exploring Saturn.
In 2014, artists Tucker Marder and Christian Scheider adapted "Galapagos" into a live theatrical performance at the new Parrish Art Museum in Watermill, N.Y.
One of the themes "Human Hunt" recalls Goldsmith's music where the similar sequence featured in the 1968 film and "accompanying it were Goldsmith’s harsh and syncopated rhythms driven by percussion as armed apes on horseback chase humans".
Track listing Reception David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter wrote "John Paesano’s full-bodied orchestral score propels things along with a robust emotional charge".
Three films have been based upon the story, in 1960, 1978, and 2002, each portraying Weena differently.
The first station represents the formation of the building blocks of life on Earth, approximately 4 billion years ago.
The choice was also made to write the book in the style of an in-universe field guide and natural history.
The Film Stage was critical of the score, saying that it "infrequently ushers in twangy guitar strums that make its genre ambitions not just nakedly apparent, but embarrassing".
The captions describe the characters' thoughts and feelings, a significantly different approach from that taken by the film.
In the 1895 novel In the original novel, the Time Traveler encounters Weena in the year 802,701 A.D.
Gameplay The simplified game allows players to try to survive as a multicellular organism in a tide pool, with the ability to upgrade its creature as with the main game.
2001: A Space Odyssey (treasury) at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original) 2001: A Space Odyssey (series) at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
David Gerrold, scriptwriter for the Star Trek episode "The Trouble with Tribbles", wrote the Battle for the Planet of the Apes novelization in 1973.
Film novelizations (1973-1974) Novelized adaptations of Planet of the Apes films written by Jerry Pournelle, David Gerrold and John Jakes.
800 Mya: snowball Earth The sixth station discusses the second planetary-scale icing event that resulted in Snowball Earth, the break-up of the super-continent of Rodinia.
In addition, the comic narrative chooses to use more dialog than visual effects when compared to the movie.
Each model was sculpted by artist Forest Rogers and authenticated by paleontologists associated with the Carnegie Museum, such as Matt Lamanna, as well as various species-specific experts.
Wobboid Mump: A blind eye in jelly that spends its entire life looking for the reason for its existence.
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
The Croods is a life simulation game developed and published by Rovio Entertainment for iOS and Android in 2013.
The new voice cast features, Amy Landecker as Ugga, Kiff VandenHeuvel as Grug, Ally Dixon as Eep, Artemis Pebdani as Gran, Darin Brooks as Guy, Matthew Waterson as Phil, and Amy Rosoff as Hope.
Despite all this, the oceanic wildlife remains untethered by most of these impacts, specifically the commercial farmed fish.
Originality dispute In August 2010, Norwich-based writer and artist John Savage issued a High Court writ, claiming that the original Flanimals book was based on his own Captain Pottie's Wildlife Encyclopedia, and that his artistic and literary copyright had been infringed.
She mimes instructions that the men are to be dressed, shaven and given haircuts, all of which is done while they are still asleep.
Official ratings from BARB show that it attracted an audience of 6.34 million viewers, a healthy figure for a factual programme.
Plot summary A heavily armed interstellar spacecraft called Invincible lands on the planet Regis III, which seems uninhabited and bleak, to investigate the loss of her sister ship, Condor.
There are several "moving objects" that can be added to the tanks which the fish will react to, such as a cat paw, fibcrab, and a small plastic scuba diver.
Issues The iPod classic had lockup issues which took place on the game's initial loading screen on 1.0.x and 1.1.x software.
Endless Forms Most Beautiful is the eighth studio album by the Finnish symphonic metal band Nightwish.
The scene is set in Prehistoric France some 35,000 years ago, where migrating Homo sapiens looking for food animals, chance upon a community of Neanderthals.
As a man sent forward equal to 20,000 years of evolution, Gwyllm soon begins growing an overdeveloped cortex and a sixth finger on each hand.
The effects-heavy production spent $71 million in Australia, more than $60 million of it in Victoria.
Unlike the full version of Spore, the main game is roughly an hour long, and divided into 18 separate sections, or 30 sections in the iPhone and iPod touch version, with the player attacking and eating other organisms while avoiding being eaten by superior ones.
Plot summary Galápagos is the story of a small band of mismatched humans who are shipwrecked on the fictional island of Santa Rosalia in the Galápagos Islands after a global financial crisis cripples the world's economy.
Any foreign animals in the player's pack in the Creature Stage are automatically added to the tribe as farm animals.
Planet of the Apemen: Battle for Earth is a dramatised documentary on the struggles of Homo sapiens with Homo erectus in the first episode, and Homo neanderthalensis in the second episode, broadcast on BBC One on 23 and 30 June 2011 respectively.
The two strands have been artfully twisted together, into a beautiful double helix of television that makes perfect sense.
The scientists on Earth name this monolith "TMA-2", which Bowman identifies as a double misnomer because it is not in the Tycho crater and gives off no magnetic anomaly.
I wasn't as happy with the revisions, but it's not my show, you have to sort of adjust, even if sometimes it does seem a bit of a contradiction in terms for what your character is supposed to be about." Billingsley later said "I know people were a little in two minds of that episode.
Reaction Because a common theme in Marvel Comics had been the struggle for mutants like the X-Men to prove their humanity, the case shocked numerous fans.
Furthermore, a child from a village needs to go through the portal to get to 1988, because he is Josh and Izzie’s father in the future.
The Harmonized Tariff Schedule was amended to eliminate the distinction between dolls and other toys, which are now in the same category.
2400 Mya: atmospheric oxygen The third station describes the rise in atmospheric oxygen on young earth, and the extinction event that resulted.
A year later, investigators working for Kenova announced that they had obtained new DNA evidence relating to the murder of Thomas Oliver.
By that time, a confidential paper had been released within the IRA and Sinn Féin, referred to as the "TUAS document".
Belfast City Council agreed to develop a strategy regarding the removal of peace walls on 1 September 2011.
25th, an explosion, followed by gunfire, was heard resulting in the additional deaths of Eduardo Rodríguez Vega and José Santiago Barea.
Despite losing more than 4% of the vote share compared with 1925, the Unionist Party managed to pick up 4 seats.
The GIA fought the government, as well as the AIS, and began a series of massacres targeting entire neighborhoods or villages which peaked in 1997.
Condoleezza Rice (then the United States Secretary of State) stated: ...the United States has not transported anyone, and will not transport anyone, to a country when we believe he will be tortured.
Hodges of Florida State University, reviewing the book in Political Science Quarterly, claims that Lewis holds a bias against the guerrillas.
United States created a "major shift in the regional context" which ultimately persuaded the other Central American leaders to accept Nicaragua as an equal partner.
Sørbye participated in the Norwegian Campaign as a telegrapher, but the Norwegian forces in Trøndelag capitulated by 10 May 1940.
Nearly 700 civilians disappeared during the period between 1974 and 1977 after being detained by the Chilean military and police.
This was a remarkable performance, given that they had been without money, television exposure (because of censorship laws), or any sympathetic media.
Two years later, the Supreme Court sentenced Fernández Dittus to 600 days in prison for his responsibility in the burning death of Rojas de Negri and the serious burns sustained by Quintana.
The police accused Haque of being a drug dealer and claimed that he had been carrying two firearms and thousands of methamphetamine pills on him when he was killed.
The circumstances that led to Onifade's death were kept away from his family and from the public, and his body was not released to his family for burial.
The manual advises an interrogator to "manipulate the subject's environment, to create unpleasant or intolerable situations." The manual gives the suggestion that prisoners be deprived of sleep and food, and made to maintain rigid positions, such as standing at attention for long periods.
Advertisements appeared in local newspapers informing the Northern Ireland public that: "There's a new regiment in the army.
The program has begun to be tested with the help of collaborators from Iran and development continued also for the supporting network of servers and its security policy.
In 1983, it was made into a television film, Jacobo Timerman: Prisoner Without a Name, Cell Without a Number.
The brutal triple murder, which came to be known as Caso Degollados, evoked widespread indignation and compelled the Supreme Court to appoint Judge José Cánovas Robles as special prosecutor to investigate the crime.
He notes, however, that except for the omission of Abraham Guillén the book is a "well documented study".
Research by the BBC television programme Panorama suggested that Stakeknife was so highly prized that other agents were sacrificed to conceal his identity.
Arrests Two SPG members, John Weir and Billy McCaughey were arrested in 1979 and confessed to paramilitary activities.
Shortly after taking office as president, Raúl Alfonsín sent to Congress a bill to repeal the law, which was approved with Law No.
The Mothers of the Plaza 25 de Mayo were initially founded as a Rosario-based branch of the larger, national Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, but later developed their own association to focus on forced disappearances in Santa Fe Province.
Originally few in number, they have multiplied over the years, from 18 in the early 1990s to at least 59 as of late 2017; in total they stretch over 34 kilometres (21 miles), with most located in Belfast.
Rojas, who had been in the country for only six weeks, decided to try to participate and document the barricades that were going up in different areas of Santiago.
The house is blanketed with flyers of the disappeared from decades earlier; Sara and Alma notice one of the men on the flyers is among the protesters.
However, some of the restrictions were lifted after Weir and another RUC officer met Harold McCusker, the local Unionist MP and asked for them to be lifted.
militant) gave an interview during a talk in Paraná on 22 March 2004, published in "Documents for debate Nº3", Libertarian Socialist Organization, where he spoke about the background of anarcho-syndicalism in Argentina and the theoretical support for the group.
By early 1958, he had organized a coup d'état, bringing together dissident army officers and pieds-noirs with sympathetic Gaullists.
Between 50,000 and 60,000 people demonstrated in downtown Buenos Aires in protest against the law, among them communists and peronists.
Resistencia Libertaria (initially known as the Resistencia Anticapitalista Libertaria) was an Argentine anarchist urban guerrilla group that emerged in 1974 via a network of workers and university militants from La Plata and Córdoba.
"H-Block" was a metonym for the Maze Prison and its H-shaped cell blocks, within which the hunger strike was taking place.
Reopening of the case in 2015 In July 2015, Minister Mario Carroza issued seven arrest warrants against military officials involved in the case.
Versions No authorized version of Matúška's lyrics has been preserved and its early records remained without attribution.
Meanwhile, the Court rejected the exception of res judicata that had acquitted Pedro Fernández Dittus in the first instance, who was also convicted as the author.
In 1935, Chardón initiated a project based on the ideas of Luis Muñoz Marín, who at the time was a Senator in the Puerto Rican legislature and member of the Liberal Party of Puerto Rico.
During the 1983 election campaign, the Radical Civic Union candidate Raúl Alfonsín had promised that there would be no impunity for the crimes of state terrorism.
Webcomics A webcomic called Persepolis 2.0 was created in 2009 by Iranian-born artists Payman and Sina whose subjects were the re-elections of conservative Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the social turmoil that followed them.
For example, colorful scraps of material were usually cut into triangular pieces and placed along the horizon of an arpillera to represent the wealth and beauty of Chile through various regions and seasons.
Based on an initial assessment he claimed that the files related to Stakeknife and not to other Kenova investigations, including Denton.
Description The Monument to the Reconciliation was located at the intersection of the Monseñor Óscar Arnulfo Romero Boulevard and Jerusalén Boulevard in San Salvador.
The witness acknowledged that, at that time, he had been pressured to give a false statement to the military justice system.
While the formation of Bronze section led directly to the creation of "E" Department within Special Branch the best known of which is the E4A department which dealt with humint and E4B which specialised in intelligence led operations etc.
The Mothers of the Plaza 25 de Mayo (Spanish: Madres de la Plaza 25 de Mayo), also known simply as Las Madres de Rosario or Madres Rosario, is an Argentine human rights group based in Rosario, Santa Fe Province, Argentina.
Hamas again kneecapped and executed Palestinians who they accused of stealing food and aid supplies during the Gaza war in 2024.
A group of soldiers led by Pedro Fernández Dittus, that was patrolling the streets during the Days of National Protest stopped, hit and after wetting them with a flammable liquid, lit on fire two young people: Carmen Gloria Quintana and the photographer Rodrigo Rojas de Negri.
Between 31 May and 8 June 1978, the Argentine government kidnapped a score of RL militants, the most important being Rafael Tello, Pablo Tello, Elsa Martínez, Hernán Ramírez Achinelli, "Melena" Edison Oscar Cantero Freire and "el Pata" Fernando Díaz Cárdenas.
The novel uses previously published graphic material by Marjane Satrapi from the original Perspolis graphic novel and is ten pages long.
This was a preliminary agreement between the Guatemalan National Reconciliation Commission (CNR) and the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG) which brought to an end more than three decades of strife in Guatemala.
This visual testimony detailing aspects of life as an NN prisoner is unique in how his experiences were not translated into words.
Eamonn Sweeney noted that: Altogether, H-Block candidates averaged 15% of the first-preference vote in constituencies they contested.
Events leading to a massacre In 1931, the U.S.-appointed Governor of Puerto Rico, Theodore Roosevelt Jr.
Plot summary Set in Antrim during The Troubles in Northern Ireland in the 1980s, the book tells the take of two eleven year old children, May-Belle Mulholland and Pearse Furlong.
The images were also featured in the Night and Fog Prisoners exhibition at Arkivet Peace and Human Rights Center, an education and documentation center in Kristiansand.
Fecech was created in 1978 during the military dictatorship of Pinochet following the suppression of the original University of Chile Student Federation (FECh) in the aftermath of the 1973 Chilean coup d'état.
Ideology Until 1973 Initially, orthodox Peronism encompassed those Peronist sectors that followed the Peronist ideals to the letter and opposed the neo-Peronist sectors of the time, as Perón expressed in his speeches:“We have, yes, an ideology and a doctrine within which we are developing.
Columnist Richard Cohen wrote in an op-ed that the attacks would harm the Israeli–Palestinian peace process.
While on assignment, he filmed a report reportedly showing the President of the Yoruba Youth Forum, Olusegun Abiodun Bolarinwa, shooting into a crowd of protesters.
Others were shot for criticising Hamas, leading the report author to state the brutality mocks the claims that Hamas is providing law and order.
Additionally, the rapid shift from Allende's socialist policies to Pinochet's neoliberal reforms entailed a "shock treatment" on the Chilean economy, which saw a rapid decline in social spending and substantial layoffs in the civil service, resulting in an 18.7 percent unemployment rate by 1975.
An impassioned orator, he was known for his ability to both enrage or calm at will the tens of thousands of young hittiestes who came to hear him speak.
As with the rugby union 1972 Five Nations Championship the cause of this cancellation was The Troubles in Northern Ireland.
The first recruit course passed out on 28 July 1979 and the salute was taken by Brigadier David Miller, Commander UDR.
See also Disappearance of Azory Gwanda References External links Onifade Emmanuel Pelumi at Committee to Protect Journalists
This suggestion was adopted and to the end of the security situation a small warship was on station off the coast of the Warrenpoint/Rostrevor shoreline.
Nidia Díaz, a signatory of the peace accords and former FMLN commander, criticized the monument's demolition, describing it as "anti-historical" ("antihistóricos").
According to the police, Fahim was killed while in custody after a group of militants opened fire on them.
Though acquitted by a military court in October 1977, Timerman was kept under house arrest after his release in April 1978 until his deportation to Israel in September 1979.
The register is also part of the UNESCO World Heritage List, and is owned and kept by the Norwegian National Library.
The collection of images is part of Norwegian legacy documents, established to preserve and highlight unique and irreplaceable documents.
In 2023, the Argentina's Human Rights Secretariat held a commemoration at the prison where Timerman was held, the former Centre of Tactical Operations I (COTI) in the Martínez suburb of Buenos Aires.
In 2017, the Belfast Interface Project published a study entitled "Interface Barriers, Peacelines & Defensive Architecture" that identified 97 separate walls, barriers and interfaces in Belfast.
During the 1950s he stayed abroad to research; at the UK Post Office Research Station in 1951 and the SHAPE Air Defence Technical Centre (SADTC) from 1957 to 1960.
World War II Sørbye attended secondary school at Stabekk, and enrolled at the Norwegian Institute of Technology on 1 September 1939 — the day World War II began.
Pelumi Emmanuel Onifade (born 2000) was a Nigerian reporter who was extrajudicially killed in Lagos in October 2020 while covering the #EndSARS Protests.
The commission found that approximately 69% of arrests occurred between September 11 and December 31 of 1973, and 19% between January 1973 and August 1977.
England had lost one and drawn one and were not in a challenging position, whilst Northern Ireland lost their only game.
Largely illiterate rural women, on the other hand, the remaining eighty percent, due to their geographic location in respect to the operations of FLN often became involved in the conflict as a result of proximity paired with force.
El Mercurio, in a new editorial published on August 3, reluctantly validated the questions, stating: "Is it Is the information being provided credible as a whole?
The Troubles were a period of conflict in Northern Ireland involving republican and loyalist paramilitaries, the British security forces and civilians.
Both men were arrested and shot, officially while attempting to escape, at the police headquarters in San Juan.
The Federation of Student Centres of the University of Chile (FECECh) was a short-lived organization that claimed to represent all the students enrolled in undergraduate and post-graduate courses at the University of Chile.
Related events On June 1, 2004, Leonid Parfyonov, one of the leading NTV journalists, was fired from the channel allegedly for making public the decision of the channel direction that had forbidden him to present a TV interview with Malika Yandarbiyeva, widow of Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev.
Ruth Stanley of the Free University of Berlin, in a review of the book for the Journal of Third World Studies, claims that Lewis "appears to believe that guerrilleros who were tortured and disappeared got what they deserved".
The Ministry of Public Works described the monument as "a metaphor to democracy, to the sovereignty of the people, to the country's unity, and to the solution's principle" ("una metáfora a la democracia, a la soberanía del pueblo, a la unidad de país y al principio de la solución").
In the aftermath of the killings, the police claimed that the nationalists were shot because they attempted to escape.
The ruling was issued by three votes in favor (Elena Highton de Nolasco, Carlos Rosenkrantz and Horacio Rosatti) and two votes against (Ricardo Lorenzetti and Juan Carlos Maqueda).
Prior to 1960 Since partition, the IRA had started a number of operations in Northern Ireland designed at bringing about their goal of a United Ireland.
B-2) The two manuals were completely declassified and released to the public in May 2004, and are now available online.
These figures, not broken down into government forces, insurgents and civilians, are commonly cited as the war's death toll.
Internet activism and, specifically, social networking has been instrumental in organizing many of the 2009 Iranian election protests.
In response to this activity the Unionist authorities under John Miller Andrews introduced internment and using provisions of the Emergency Powers Act, instituted increasingly restrictive policies in Northern Ireland.
Internet activism and hacktivism DDoS attacks Mousavi's supporters, through social networking sites, exchanged scripts for launching distributed denial of service attacks (DDoS) against Ahmadinejad's website.
Yandarbiyev was fatally wounded and died on the way to the hospital, while his 13-year-old son Daud was seriously injured and arrived in critical condition.
To reach a wide audience, advertisements were broadcast on national and local radio and television stations, as well as published in national and local newspapers.
It is a memorial to the victims of the 1976–1983 military regime, known as the National Reorganization Process, during the Dirty War, a period of unprecedented state-sponsored violence in Argentina.
Brian Morton writing in the Scottish Review of Books described the writing as grand and compared it favorably to To Kill A Mockingbird, The Catcher in the Rye, and The Member of the Wedding.
The term is considered a misnomer by medical professionals, because only a very small minority of victims suffer damage to the kneecap.
Its text was copied and recopied in hand before it appeared in print in 1851 (unattributed, as Dobrovoľnícka – Volunteer Song), which gave rise to some variation, namely concerning the phrase zastavme ich ("let's stop them") or zastavme sa ("let's stop").
On their 1987 album Remembrance Days, English alternative pop band The Dream Academy included the song "In Exile (For Rodrigo Rojas)" in honor of Rojas' death.
The involvement of republicans, such as IRA chief of staff Cathal Goulding, and groups like the Irish National Foresters, the Gaelic Athletic Association and the Wolfe Tone Societies would only further fuel their suspicions.
In the following months, Chile's major newspapers began publishing stories about "alleged missing persons" who were believed to be alive outside of Chile.
After a period as professor of communication technology at the Technische Hogeschool Twente (nowadays: University of Twente) from 1970 to 1972, he was a professor of telematics at the Norwegian Institute of Technology from 1972 to his retirement in 1987.
Form and thematic content Form Rules on the amount of figures permitted in an arpillera and the required sizes, composition, proportion, colors, and themes were decided by the committee and afterward by the Vicariate.
The high court overturns the verdict, ruling his crime cannot be conclusively proven, causing the outraged public to hold nonstop protests outside Monteverde's home.
In 1997, two additional CIA manuals were declassified in response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request filed by The Baltimore Sun.
But that is something that does not interest me." (Spanish: Tenemos, sí, una ideología y una doctrina dentro de la cual nos vamos desarrollando.
Government response The Pinochet government maintained widespread censorship policies over artistic expression.
French historians estimate that somewhere between 50,000 and 150,000 Harkis and members of their families were killed by the FLN or by lynch mobs in Algeria, often in atrocious circumstances or after torture.
After his electoral victory and death, the Representation of the People Act was passed to prevent convicted prisoners serving sentences of more than one year from serving in the UK parliament.
Sørbye was decorated with the King's Medal for Courage in the Cause of Freedom and the Defence Medal 1940–1945.
For instance, it described a weekly lecture called "The Academy" held for police and military officers, who were taught that they were fighting a "World War III" against left-wing terrorists.
However, at home, it highlighted the non-violent Social Democratic and Labour Party's (SDLP's) dominance in Northern nationalist politics, while Sinn Féin's vote in the Republic remained tiny once the emotion generated by the 1981 hunger strike subsided.
Mothers of the Plaza 25 de Mayo takes its name from the Plaza 25 de Mayo in Rosario, where the mothers conduct their weekly march every Thursday to call for justice for their children.
Only four months later, the investigation carried out by Judge Cánovas led to the arrest of two colonels, one major, two captains and two non-commissioned officers of the national police force (carabineros).
The park contains 18 sculptures, 12 of which were chosen through a competition, the other six were by artists with a commitment to human rights.
Those loyal to Perón's wife, Isabel Martínez de Perón, began to identify themselves as orthodox Peronists, defending the "Peronist homeland" against the "socialist homeland" advocated by the left-wing Revolutionary Tendency.
It talks about the Dirty War in Argentina and the trials of Jorge Rafael Videla and other military rulers of Argentina.
Arancibia Clavel was the only defendant that was indicted for the assassination of Carlos Prats and Sofia Cuthbert.
Unilateral ceasefire of 2005 On 2 February 2005, Chechen separatist president Maskhadov issued a call for a ceasefire lasting until at least 22 February (the day preceding the anniversary of Stalin's deportation of the Chechen population).
They can also genuinely disagree with it, depending on the circumstances, especially when complex intragovernmental or internal policy struggles also exist within a state's policymaking apparatus.
On October 17, 2024, four years after his death, a coroner's inquest was commenced at a Federal High Court in Lagos on the orders of the court.
The SPG in London was disbanded in January 1987 and the same fate befell the RUC Special Patrol Group.
The organization was created by a group of women who sought answers to the forced disappearance of their children during the Dirty War and military dictatorship from 1976 to 1983.
Later that night, Sara uses her grandfather’s oxygen cylinder to hold her breath longer under the pool.
While some have welcomed the modernization of the anthem, others question the necessity and quality of the revision as well as the procedural aspects of the change.
This development met with early approval in the rest of Russia, but the continued deaths of Russian troops dampened public enthusiasm.
In Northern Ireland thirteen people had their legs amputated as a consequence of limb punishment shootings over the duration of the Troubles.
The children, portrayed as victims rather than villains, begin to torment and torture insects, graduating to small animals, influenced by the selfish acts of their parents.
In the longer term, it had two significant political consequences, each of which fed into the emergent Northern Ireland peace process.
The sound of a woman weeping interrupts Monteverde's sleep and he narrowly misses shooting his wife.
A study was released in 2012 indicating that 69% of residents believe that the peace walls are still necessary because of potential violence.
It has been discussed that the use of psychiatric treatments to reduce unwanted behaviors can be seen as extrajudicial punishments, due to many side-effects associated to these treatments.
See also Anarchism in Argentina María Esther Biscayart de Tello, mother of Rafael and Pablo Tello References Bibliography Diz, Verónica; Trujillo, Fernando López (2007).
Esquipulas II defined a number of measures to promote national reconciliation, an end to hostilities, democratization, free elections, the termination of all assistance to irregular forces, negotiations on arms controls, and assistance to refugees.
After Esquipulas In subsequent years, Esquipulas laid the groundwork for the Oslo Accord (not to be confused with the 1993 Oslo Accords between the Israeli government and the PLO).
It was to start from the Waterside Railway Station, east of the River Foyle, cross the river along Craigavon Bridge and proceed to the Diamond, the central point of the city.
Where appropriate, the United States seeks assurances that transferred persons will not be tortured.
Courses were not just for permanent cadre and included training for:platoon commanders, platoon sergeants, potential NCOs, skill-at-arms, surveillance, intelligence, photography and search updating.
In October 2006 a ramped path was installed as well as commemorative sculptures, dedicated to the victims of the government sponsored violence.
However, parties directly linked to Loyalist paramilitaries had minimal success in elections in Northern Ireland, with the combined electoral share of the UDP and the Progressive Unionist Party (PUP) failing to exceed 1% before the May 1996 elections for the Northern Ireland Forum.
Senior British officers had referred to Stakeknife as the "golden egg" due to the calibre of information he supplied.
Army issued the FM 34-52 Intelligence Interrogation manual, which was used until September 2006, when it was superseded by FM 2-22.3, Human Intelligence Collector Operations.
Additionally, when women brought their arpilleras to the Vicariate, they sought to avoid being caught by hiding the arpilleras in their coats and skirts.
Wales had beaten Scotland and played a tame draw with England and so too would have claimed victory with a win or draw in Belfast.
Towards the end of the book Pearse Furlong's mother and grandmother are killed by a car bomb that was planted to target his father.
Crossfire is a form of staged extrajudicial killings in Bangladesh, often used to refer to the death of a person by gunshot while under the custody of a law enforcement agency.
Victims of their own methods, exterminated by their own comrades, each of them points out with tragic eloquence that the violent ones eventually fall victim to the blind and implacable terror they provoke, and that, once they follow this path, nothing and no one can stop them.
Decree 2741/90: Pardons the former members of the juntas of commanders condemned in the 1985 Trial of the Juntas Jorge Rafael Videla, Emilio Massera, Orlando Ramón Agosti, Roberto Viola, and Armando Lambruschini.
In October 2000 a court ordered the government to pay Quintana 251.7 million pesos (about US$500,000) in compensatory damages.
By this stage, support for NICRA began to wane, however NICRA continued to organise anti-internment marches.
There is also a public meeting hall in the park used for purposes related to the arts, science and the memory of the victims of the reorganization.
The intensity of this activity increased towards the end of 1941, where the IRA decided to step up its campaign of attacks in Northern Ireland.
The Thin Green Line The History of the Royal Ulster Constabulary GC, Pen & Sword, 2004, ISBN 1-84415-058-5 Ellison, Graham; Smyth, Jim.
They were represented by an attorney of the law firm founded by Nikolai Yegorov, a friend and fellow student of Vladimir Putin at Leningrad State University.
Five months later, in October 1981, Scotland were able to play a qualifying match for the 1982 FIFA World Cup in Northern Ireland without significant difficulties.
There is also a special bonus of four million Chilean pesos for victim's children who were born in captivity or who were detained with their parents while they were minors.
The songs reflected the two nations' concerns in the 19th century when they were confronted with the already fervent national-ethnic activism of the Hungarians and the Germans, their fellow ethnic groups in the Habsburg monarchy.
Two big kidnaps, the 2002 Moscow theater hostage crisis and the Beslan school hostage crisis in 2004, resulted in the deaths of many civilians.
The Qatari prosecutors concluded that the suspects had received the order to murder Yandarbiev from Defence Minister Sergei Ivanov.
The book weaves together different narratives, discussing Timerman's imprisonment, his biography, and larger topics of Argentine politics.
The Russian government maintains the conflict officially ended in April 2002, and since then has continued largely as a peacekeeping operation.
The tense situation was compounded by the economy, which collapsed even further that year, as almost all of the longstanding subsidies on food were eliminated.
Russia's acting defence minister Sergei Ivanov pledged state support for the suspects and declared that their imprisonment was illegal.
As the Allies invaded Europe, Næss and other Natzweiler prisoners were sent to Dachau, Ottobrünn and Dautmergen.
His funeral in Santiago was attended by thousands, including the ambassador, and ended with the Chilean military tear-gassing the mourners.
In response, Owen Carron, Sands's agent, stood as an "Anti-H-Block Proxy Political Prisoner", winning a seat in the subsequent August by-election.
All the Little Guns Went Bang Bang is Neil Mackay's debut 2013 novel about two children who grow up in Northern Ireland.
Some Salvadorans reportedly questioned the monument's symbolism and objected to its appearance, with Escoto himself stating that the final monument did not entirely resemble the original plans.
The group worked during the last military dictatorship in Argentina and was the only anarchist guerrilla group during the period of state terrorism in the 1970s.
Threats to the public peace also came from loyalist organisations such as the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), the Ulster Defence Association (UDA) which used the nom de guerre Ulster Freedom Fighters when killing, and a selection of other groupings who emerged during the Troubles.
Commission The report was prepared at the request of President Ricardo Lagos by the National Commission on Political Imprisonment and Torture, which consisted of eight members.
They may be made of iron, brick, steel or a combination of the three and are up to 8 metres (25 feet) high.
Gradually, however, the FLN gained control in certain sectors of the Aurès, the Kabylie, and other mountainous areas around Constantine and south of Algiers and Oran.
When the governments of the UK and the Republic of Ireland drafted the Anglo-Irish Agreement, this convinced many in Sinn Féin that it was possible to make political gains without violence.
In May 1986, a summit meeting at dawn, "Esquipulas I," took place, attended by the five Central American presidents.
Nattino, a painter and supporter of the AGECH teachers' union, had been kidnapped on March 28, while AGECH leader Guerrero, and Parada, a Vicaría de la Solidaridad staff member, were abducted on March 29.
The following day, family members organized a press briefing in which they urged the authorities to ensure that the RAB would guarantee the brothers' safety.
Boutcher said Scappaticci should have been prosecuted and called upon the government and Republicans to apologise to all of the affected families who had suffered abduction and murder.
The names are listed chronologically and alphabetically, and additionally note when the victim was pregnant.
Romeo Herrera, the minister of public works, stated that a new park would be built at the site the monument stood at.
In 1983, Caballero attended a CIA "human resources exploitation or interrogation course," according to declassified testimony by Richard Stolz, who was the deputy director for operations at the time, before the June 1988 Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
Orthodoxy organizations In the seventies, there were several terrorist organizations that adhered to this Peronism.
It was not until August 20, during a ceremony in San Bernardo for the birthday of Bernardo O'Higgins, that General Augusto Pinochet officially addressed the case of the 119.
One source estimates 300,000 Algerian civilians perished of starvation, depredation, and disease inside and outside the camps.
During the apartheid years (from 1948 until the early 1990s), South Africa's security forces routinely used extrajudicial means, including death squads, to deal with their political opponents.
Scotland were the only team to complete all their matches, including defeating Northern Ireland in Glasgow, and were in a strong position, having also beaten England.
The events The opposition to Augusto Pinochet had great hopes that 1986 would be "The Year of Victory" and scheduled a series of Days of National Protest (Jornadas de Protesta Nacional) that were to be combined with a national strike on 2 and 3 July.
The bodies of Santiago Nattino, Manuel Guerrero Ceballos and José Manuel Parada were discovered near Santiago's airport, their throats slashed.
The Caso Degollados ('Slit-Throat Case') was a politically motivated series of murders of opposition members that took place in Chile in 1985, during Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship.
During the Second World War, "Hej, Slováci" was adopted as the unofficial state anthem of the puppet regime Slovak Republic.
Since December 2005, his son Ramzan Kadyrov, leader of the pro-Moscow militia known as kadyrovtsy, has been functioning as Chechnya's de facto ruler.
The far-left faction of Peronism represented by the Montoneros entered a conflict with the Peronist trade unions, which forced Perón to give concessions to labour bureaucracy and act against the left-wing Peronists, given the threat of trade unions turning against Perón.
The review concludes by opining that [T]his is a work based on published materials that provides no new insights, fails to engage with theoretical debates and offers no analysis of the underlying causes of repression.
The Troubles, sometimes known internationally as the Northern Ireland conflict, claimed roughly 3500 lives.
La Llorona ([la ʝoˈɾona]), also known as The Weeping Woman, is a 2019 Guatemalan horror film co-written, directed, co-produced, and co-edited by Jayro Bustamante.
Zéroual followed this up by pushing through a new constitution in 1996, substantially strengthening the power of the President and adding a second house that would be partly elected and partly appointed by the President.
Both achieved success in bringing anti-Catholic discrimination to the attention of the media and, in the case of the Campaign for Social Justice, to politicians in Westminster.
About In places covered by ice sheets during ice ages, such as Scandinavia, northern North America, and Siberia, glacial erratics are common.
Such temporary exposed stairways are sometimes used in conjunction with scaffolding on construction sites, or permanently as an emergency exit.
Examples See also References External links Media related to Balconies at Wikimedia Commons "Balcony" .
William Kempster (1651–1717) was an English master stonemason who worked with Sir Christopher Wren on St Paul's Cathedral.
Marigolds could grow perennially in untilled fields, and their juice and flowers were reputed to have many benefits from soothing eye irritation to relieving tooth pain.
A riwaq (or rivaq, Arabic: رواق riwāq or ruwāq) is an arcade or portico (if in front of entrances) open on at least one side.
The fishermen would walk to the centre of the labyrinth, enticing the spirits to follow them, and then run out and put to sea.
The path to the stone circle center, which is the herb garden, is surrounded by a rock wall, earthy grounds, and lavender.
Security electric fences consist of wires that carry pulses of electric current to provide a non-lethal shock to deter potential intruders.
The Lavender Labyrinth is a three acre garden located 1.5 miles south of Silver Lake in Shelby, Michigan and 1.2 miles east of Lake Michigan.
Decoration When repairs were conducted in the mid-2nd century BC, the fountainhouse was decorated with a fresco of a river god with three nymphs.
Since the 1970s there has been an interest in using indigenous species for lawns, especially considering their lower water requirements.
Legged lanterns Yukimi-dōrō (雪見燈籠), or legged lanterns, have as a base not a post but from one to six curved legs, and a wide umbrella with a finial either low or absent.
Colour and placement is important to ensuring that bat boxes are used; bat boxes that are too shaded will not heat up enough to attract a maternity colony of bats.
It is not known whether statues were placed in Greek domestic gardens but the Romans transported a great many statues to Italy and placed them in gardens for ornamental reasons.
They can also be used inside a building, for example as a grid behind windows or skylights to prevent people from climbing through.
It is one of the world's largest botanical gardens, with an extensive collection of living plants and a herbarium of about 4 million specimens.
The walled gardens contain old-fashioned roses and wisteria, an ornamental vegetable garden, maze (laid to grass with brick paths, dedicated by Archbishop Robert Runcie on 12 October 1981) and ice house.
Legged lanterns were probably developed during the Momoyama period, but the oldest extant examples, found at the Katsura Villa in Kyoto, go back only to the early Edo period.
As cultivated grasses became valued for their nutritional benefits to livestock, farmers relied less and less on natural meadows in the more colonized areas of the country.
Water was a much-desired feature; at least a trickle, often flowing over the rocks to make them glisten.
The Natatorium was later incorporated into the Northside Swim Center when the center opened in 2013, though it retains the name NISD Natatorium.
Sufficient vertical clearance between upper and lower handrails, 9 inches minimum, should be provided to help prevent entrapment.
It was designed by Archibald Skinner and opened in May 1935 as part of the celebrations for the Silver Jubilee of George V.
It is the newest amusement park in Finland, although for the time being it has only a limited number of pre-owned rides on its ride list.
The complex is also an access point to the Trillium Woods, a 15-kilometre multi-use trail network for hiking and mountain biking.
Examples Riwaq arcade examples include: The Saudi Riwaq - portico expansion at the Masjid al-Haram mosque Makkah Along the main avenues of the Bazaar of Kashan, in present-day Iran.
The most original fountain in the exposition was Les Sources et les Rivières de France, made by René Lalique.
Stair rods consists of a long bar, either solid core or tube (hollow core), and brackets used to hold the bar in place.
A storage bench is a combination of sitting space and a storage box, often used for keeping gardening supplies or grill equipment.
The loggias now form part of the ceremonial route for distinguished visitors, but are not otherwise on the tourist route.
A patio (Spanish for 'courtyard, forecourt, yard, little garden') is an outdoor space generally used for dining or recreation that adjoins a structure and is typically paved.
Description The large pool is mushroom shaped with a shallow area for children, including slide, and deeper circular area 46 m in diameter.
Thought to have its origins in the optical illusion of large, driving (wind blown) raindrops appearing to greatly elongate.
As the château had been constructed with the purpose of short stays, it was not practical to live in on a longer-term basis.
While common in Europe even before 1900, eating outdoors at restaurants in North America was exotic until the 1940s.
During this period, the pool was reserved for soldiers that served the Japanese and used salt water instead of fresh water.
A stair rod, also commonly referred to as a carpet rod, is an ornamental decorative hardware item used to hold carpeting in place on steps.
They were decorated in fresco around 1519 by Raphael's large team of artists, with Giovanni da Udine involved.
In 1951, the second public pool was planned to be built at Yan Kit Road, Tanjong Pagar, at a cost of S$380,000.
In addition to outdoor swimming and diving facilities, the complex includes indoor swimming facilities in the Northside Independent School District (NISD) Natatorium.
Thus if dead-end filling is done on a perfect maze (maze with no loops), then only the solution will remain.
Round Up has been in three other Finnish amusement parks: 1961–1976 in Linnanmäki, 1977 in Särkänniemi and 1986–2002 in Tykkimäki, before it came to Nokkakivi park for its opening season.
These boulders are called "erratic" because they typically are of a different rock type than the bedrock on which they are deposited.
Solar energy is stored as heat energy in thermal mass such as water, stone, masonry, soil and plant biomass.
By forming a reflected full circle, the bridge also symbolizes purity: the Chinese words for “full” and “circle” together translate to “perfection”.
The staircase featured in the 1994 film The Madness of King George, the 2004 Harry Potter film, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, and the 2009 Guy Ritchie film Sherlock Holmes.
The earliest known extant stone lantern in China is the Northern Qi (550-577) stone lantern in the remains of Tongzi Temple in Taiyuan, Shanxi.
A moon bridge (月桥), also known as “sori-bashi" (反り橋) in Japanese, or as a drum bridge (“taiko-bashi” 太鼓橋), is a highly arched pedestrian bridge.
Erpf and designed by Michael Ayrton, being constructed at Erpf's estate in Arkville, New York in 1969.
Some elements of its architecture—open windows, loggias, and a vast outdoor area at the top, borrowed from the Italian Renaissance architecture—were less practical in the cold and damp climate of northern France.
The tiling and other parts of the pool were also damaged that were suspected to have been sustained during the Japanese occupation.
The building exchanges nutrients, gases and energy with the surrounding environment, produces crops, and recycles waste organic material into the soil.
This greenhouse was designed in 1853 by the architect Alphonse Balat and transported from its original location at the Botanical Garden of Brussels.
Some noted rock formations involve giant boulders exposed by erosion, such as the Devil's Marbles in Australia's Northern Territory, the Horeke basalts in New Zealand, where an entire valley contains only boulders, and The Baths on the island of Virgin Gorda in the British Virgin Islands.
The flower-shaped design has allusions to the flower of life, which has interlocking circles surrounding one in the center.
See also Baluster Guard rail Hanging strap Mobile safety steps Stanchion References External links The dictionary definition of handrail at Wiktionary Media related to Handrails at Wikimedia Commons
In 1989 Stephen Fried and Marie Fried opened the Fjärilshuset ("Butterfly House") in Haga Gardens which once again turned the area into a visitor attraction.
It is located directly behind the Stoa of Antigonos outside the temenos of the Sanctuary of Apollo on the island of Delos.
Some threatened bat species can be locally supported with the provision of appropriately placed bat-boxes; however, species that roost in foliage or large cavities will not use bat boxes.
Techniques A primary element of organic lawn management is the use of compost and compost tea to reduce the need for fertilization and to encourage healthy soil that enables turf to resist pests.
Church benches and pews can come in various styles including traditional, modern and curved to match and complement the architectural styles and spaces of places of worship.
Valiant Hearts (2021) – during World War II, six Jewish children are hidden by the French Resistance in the Château de Chambord to escape the Holocaust.
The National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) require that the distance between the wall and handrail be a minimum of 2+1⁄4 inches (57 mm).
Published in 1889, Mark Twain's novel A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, uses an electric fence for defensive purposes.
For example, in the New Forest, England, such grazed areas are common, and are known as lawns, for example Balmer Lawn.
Intuitively, if one pulled and stretched out the paths in the maze in the proper way, the result could be made to resemble a tree.
Deliberately rough stones might be used—Pliny the Elder noted that pumice was often used to give the appearance of a cave.
However, they were originally designed to allow pedestrians to cross canals while allowing the passage of barges beneath.
Since the coverings need to allow light to filter into the structure, they conversely cannot insulate very well.
If the number of steps is small, a landing area may not be required, but a door would ordinarily not open in the direction that causes it to swing out over a stairway.
See also Grasscycling Organic farming Organic horticulture Organic movement Natural landscaping == References ==
As the château was never intended to provide any form of defence from enemies, the walls, towers and partial moat are decorative, and at the time were even an anachronism.
"Working days in a London construction team in the eighteenth century: evidence from St Paul's Cathedral" (PDF).
NISD Natatorium The NISD Natatorium preceded the Northside Swim Center outdoor facilities, opening to the public in 2006 and was funded by a local school bond.
In May 2023, it was announced that they would replace the monorail with an inclined elevator that uses two rails.
Within its grounds are the fortified tower built circa 1347, the only remains of the medieval castle, overlooking the gardens and surrounding countryside, as well as a Tudor wheelhouse.
Geometric Staircase The Geometric Staircase, a helical cantilevered staircase with 88 stone stairs designed by Christopher Wren, was built by Kempster in the southwest tower of St Paul's and completed in 1710.
In one natural pool, the following plants are used: water lily, water hyacinth, phragmites australis, caltha palustris, and mentha aquatica for purification, and hippuris vulgaris and waterweed for oxygenation.
When this happens, the "player" will traverse the maze following the left wall rather than the right until the exit is found or another gray rock is encountered, flipping the camera right-side up again.
Slate's Jacob Brogan called the screensaver a "harried, first-person rush through a brick-walled labyrinth" likening it to an "intelligence at work" and went on to compare watching it to watching one's grandparents play Wolfenstein 3D "while sitting in silence as they haplessly mashed the keypad".
Some nest boxes can be highly decorated and complex, sometimes mimicking human houses or other structures.
Overview The maze is randomly generated each time, with the "player" navigating through it in first-person, spawning in front of a floating start button.
Wilson obtained United States Patent 343,939 in 1886, combining protection, an alarm bell, and telephone communications.
Now owned by the National Trust, it is located at grid reference SU725834, and is open to the public.
The center opened in 2013 and serves the local community as well as hosting larger, national, and international scale events.
It is a component of organic land care and organic sustainable landscaping which adapt the principles and methods of sustainable gardening and organic farming to the care of lawns and gardens.
It was a column of glass five meters high, made up of 128 caryatids of glass, each with a different decoration and size, each spraying a thin stream of water into the fountain below.
The lido is open from May to September and during the summer can attract up to 4,000 visitors a day.
Powder-coated steel: Powder coated steel benches are often found lining entryways for different venues, like retail centers, medical facilities and country clubs.
One such species, Bermuda grass (Cynodon dactylon), became the most important pasture grass for the southern colonies.
The current garden was established in 1958 after moving from central Brussels; the former site is now the Botanical Garden of Brussels.
Nowadays Fjärilshuset is a national museum with the buildings being held privately and the land leased by Fjarilshuset Haga Tradgard AB.
An exterior stairway is a stair in a separate structure attached to the rest of the building body, and can either be enclosed or exposed to the elements.
Apart from economic reasons, a natural swimming pool seeks to avoid chemicals such as chlorine that can ruin a pool user's eyes and skin, provide a natural aesthetic to a yard, or welcome more wildlife into a given environment, among other reasons.
It is usually part of an upper floor, with a balustrade only at the front, resembling a small loggia.
In Japan, tōrō were originally used only in Buddhist temples, where they lined and illuminated paths.
During 1706–8, Kempster had a team of 65 men working on the southwest tower and the vaults of St Paul's.
The fountain by sculptor Gabriel Guevrekian was composed of four triangular basins, colored blue or red, and a fountain of glass in the centre, surrounded by triangles of grass and flowers.
Shortest path algorithm When a maze has multiple solutions, the solver may want to find the shortest path from start to finish.
Cox, a farmer in Adams County, Iowa, invented an improved electric fence bracket and was issued United States Patent No.
18th century Andrew Faneuil, a prosperous Boston merchant, built the first American greenhouse in 1737.
Police was also stationed there that turned away people who were unreasonably dressed or had skin diseases.
Meise Botanic Garden contains about 18,000 plant species — about 6% of all the world's known plant species.
Historic "Troy" turf mazes in England Of the eight surviving historic turf mazes in England, three have "Troy" names.
Electronic controllers are often used to monitor the temperature and adjusts the furnace operation to the conditions.
An Ohio-based pond-and-lake-restoration company suggests natural pool aerations twice a day—one in the morning, where oxygen demand is greatest, and another in the evening.
New York City public lands, United States In 2021, the New York City Council banned the use of synthetic pesticides by city agencies.
Groundbreaking on the complex took place back in December 2011; the official grand opening took place in November 2013.
External links Media related to Patios at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of patio at Wiktionary
Child recommendation When children are the principal users in a building or facility (e.g., elementary schools), a second set of handrails at an appropriate height can assist them and aid in preventing accidents.
Nautilus was affected by the Great Recession in the United States, losing almost $225 million in revenue between 2007 and 2010.
On each side of the pool are single-storey changing room blocks built in a timber-framed vernacular style, originally designated for ladies to the east and gentlemen to the west.
That is why, some months before the garden was bought by the state, the government had purchased the famous Von Martius Herbarium that was held in Munich.
Moritz in New York in the 1950s advertised itself as having the first true continental cafe with outdoor seating.
As a result, the table below does not display the biblical events in chronological order, but according to the orientation of the loggia itself.
One ride is especially notable in the Nokkakivi park because of its long operational history in Finnish amusement parks.
As the maze is traversed, several objects can be found inside it, including floating "OpenGL" logos, images of globes on the walls (which is seen on the cover of the OpenGL Programming Guide), and a 2D sprite image of a rat that is also moving through the maze.
With worsening economic conditions and increased interest in organic and sustainable living, many people are turning to vegetable gardening as a supplement to their family's diet.
Rides and attractions Major rides Family rides Kiddie rides Attractions References External links Official homepage (in Finnish)
The Fountains of International Expositions in London, Paris, New York and other cities between 1851 and 1964 combined architecture, technology and theatre.
A balcony (from Italian: balcone, "scaffold") is a platform that typically projects from the wall of a building, supported by columns or console brackets, and enclosed with a balustrade, usually above the ground floor.
A symbol of American self-sufficiency and the colonial homestead, practical kitchen gardens were the center of home life in early America.
The Stairmaster was so widely used that people referred to nearly all other brands of step climbers as StairMasters.
In 1933 the town council of Stockholm took over the gardens and produced flowers for official use and for embellishment of squares and gardens.
Depending on the animal, these boxes may be used for roosting, breeding, or both, or, as in the case with butterflies, hibernation.
Bronze lanterns Bronze lanterns, or kondō-dōrō (金銅燈籠, gilt bronze lantern) have a long history in Japan, but are not as common or as diverse in form as the stone ones.
The circles in the labyrinth are seen to represent creation, due to the quality of having no beginning and no end.
Aluminum: Aluminum benches are often found in outdoor, sideline settings at recreational venues like sports fields or courts and as a complement to bleacher systems.
Gallery External links Media related to Struve Geodetic Arc in Moldova at Wikimedia Commons 50 lei 2009 arcul geodezic Struve DEZBATERI PARLAMENTARE Archived 2010-01-14 at the Wayback Machine Preşedintia Republicii Moldova SERVICIUL DE PRESĂ Archived 2011-09-28 at the Wayback Machine
A garden sculpture is a three-dimensional work of art that is displayed outdoors, typically in a garden or park setting.
This large array provided a repertoire of elements that were the basis for later artists creating grotesque decoration across Europe.
The 168 stairs (Korean: 168계단) are an outdoor stairway in Choryang-dong, Dong District, Busan, South Korea.
Description In the 6th century BC, the fountain was covered by a square building with a hipped roof and walls on three sides.
During the 1930s, over 4 million new suburban houses were built and the 'suburban revolution' had made England the most heavily suburbanized country in the world by a considerable margin.
The complex owned by the City of Ottawa is located at 4101 Innovation Drive, in the Kanata North Business Park.
Initially they were often decorated with geometrical mosaics often incorporating shells, but by the end of the century could contain ambitious figure subjects.
A vegetable garden typically includes a compost heap, and several plots or divided areas of land, intended to grow one or two types of plant in each plot.
Organic lawns often benefit from overseeding (adding more seeds over top of the existing vegetation), slice seeding (slits are made in the soil into which seeds are deposited) and aeration more frequently due to the importance of a strong root system.
At the time Gustav III had plans to build a very large palace just 300m from Haga Trädgård but eventually due to lack of available finance the palace was never built.
Sir William Paul bought the house in 1686 and it passed via his son William's daughter's dowry to Sir William Stapleton, 4th Baronet in 1724.
In March 2024, it was announced that an outdoor terraced movie theater would be installed along the stairway.
Overview New Alchemy's pioneering work in ecological design is documented in their published Journals and Reports.
The house remains furnished as a family home, with some outstanding 18th-century plasterwork interiors.
It quickly became popular among gym-goers, although Karen Avenso of New York Daily News noted that it "[looked] more intimidating - and harder to program - than a VCR.
An inscribed stele dating to the 5th century regulated use of the public fountain with "no washing, swimming, or throwing of dung into the sacred spring".
Mount Emily Swimming Pool was planned to be demolished following the construction of the second pool, however no date was planned yet for the construction of the second pool.
Outdoor facilities Northside Swim Center was built around the pre-existing Northside Independent School District (NISD) Natatorium, which is an indoor facility, and opened in 2013.
Navigating the maze uninitiated takes approximately thirty minutes, while Erpf was reportedly able to navigate to its center in around five minutes.
This size gives a larger glazed area when compared with using smaller panes such as the 600 mm width typically used in modern domestic designs which then require more supporting framework for a given overall greenhouse size.
The stairway has 168 steps and a steep incline of around 35 to 40 degrees, with various souvenir shops on the path.
In 1976 the Alchemists built the Cape Cod Ark bioshelter and her sister The Prince Edward Island Ark.
The asymmetrical labyrinth integrates elements of time within its structure; one stone at the center represents the year, 12 interlocking circles represent the months in a year, 52 vertical posts on the arbor represent the weeks, and 7 cross pieces represent the days of the week.
Solar heat is absorbed and stored in thermal mass to moderate air temperatures and provide heat for later use.
To its left, two armed soldiers appear to be riding out of the labyrinth on horseback, while on the right two couples are shown copulating.
As portico or arcade structure, it provides shade and adjustment to sunlight in hot climates, and cover from rain in any locale.
The lido has hosted the Ilkley Triathlon since the early 1990s, making it one of the longest-running sprint events in the country.
In 2008, a 26-year-old woman died while trespassing in the maze – falling off an abutment while attempting to leave the property.
The article went on to state that the Ecofit Company compiled data from 967 fitness centers and determined that Stepmills were being used 18 times as often as Stairmasters.
In some pools the border wall between the swimming area and the regeneration area may be below the water line, thus allowing the pool's water to freely run from one end to the other.
Today brass and brass-plated stair rods are generally considered to strike a perfect balance between strength, appearance, and value.
The scheme of the ceiling of the Raphael Loggia from north to south is as follows: See also Raphael Rooms Index of Vatican City-related articles Notes References Wilson, Timothy, Ceramic Art of the Italian Renaissance, 1987, British Museum Publications, ISBN 0714105414
Origin and Destination (Spanish: "Origen y destino") is a 2011 sculpture by Pedro Tello, installed along Puerto Vallarta's Malecón, in the Mexican state of Jalisco.
They can be made from various materials, and can vary from classical figures to contemporary abstract designs.
The $43.14-million recreation complex has an eight-lane swimming pool, a leisure and therapeutic pool, two full gymnasiums, a fitness and cardio centre, multi-purpose rooms, a lighted sports field with artificial turf and an outdoor skate park.
Stone-lined labyrinths such as these have proved slightly easier to date than turf mazes (which have to be cleaned out regularly to keep their paths clear, thus destroying any archaeological evidence).
Within the section of agricultural techniques, Soon ui Jeon wrote how to build a greenhouse that was able to cultivate vegetables and other plants in the winter.
Recessed balconies sit within the boundary of a buildings facade, so are the least exposed type of balcony.
Arcade As an arcade element the structure is often found surrounding and defining the courtyards (sahn) of mosques and madrasas, and used for covered circulation, meeting and rest, and ritual circumambulation.
Boulder-sized clasts are found in some sedimentary rocks, such as coarse conglomerate and boulder clay.
Emergency exit Often the stairs in a stairwell are an emergency exit in case of fire, and the stairwell should then be a separate fire compartment separated from the rest of the building via fire doors.
Construction The maze, being the largest maze built since Classical antiquity, was reportedly commissioned shortly after Erpf read Ayrton's The Maze Maker – a fictional autobiographical novel from the view of Daedalus, who in Greek mythology built the labyrinth under Crete.
Construction Patios are most commonly paved with concrete or stone slabs (also known as paving flags).
In 2011 Richcraft Homes agreed to pay $500,000 for a 15-year naming rights agreement for the recreation complex.
a bench seat is a traditional seat installed in automobiles, featuring a continuous pad running the full width of the cabin.
The fountain was originally embellished with marble facing on the lower level, painted plaster on the upper level, and topped with a half-dome roof, forming a giant niche.
It is not known when the first two of these turf mazes were originally constructed; however, the turf was re-cut at Dalby in 1900 due to road damage.
If the maze is not simply-connected and one begins wall-following at an arbitrary point inside the maze, one could find themselves trapped along a separate wall that loops around on itself and containing no entrances or exits.
Later periods The term nymphaeum was also applied to the fountains of water in the atrium of the Christian basilica, which according to Eusebius were symbols of purification.
Etymology The word boulder derives from boulder stone, from Middle English bulderston or Swedish bullersten.
Though rare, this technique is displayed on the 12th century Chinese “Rainbow Bridge”, the 1913 moon bridge in the Japanese garden of the Huntington Library in California.
There are several examples of creative uses, such as wardrobes, home offices, playrooms, or general storage such as drawers, cupboards or shelves.
The organization also consults with political organizations and governments and with local organizations with a similar thrust.
The maze is semi-subterranean in design with its walls being dug into the surrounding hillside, and spans approximately 1,680 feet (510 m) of walking area.
They introduced the first illuminated fountains, the first fountains made with glass and other exotic materials, and the first fountains programmed to perform with music.
Placing nestboxes or roosting boxes may also be used to help maintain populations of particular species in an area.
In 1917 the department store NK took over the gardens to grow fresh vegetables for Stockholm's inhabitants.
Sculpture then became an aspect of art and gardens have been a favored location for displaying outdoor works of art.
Users can customize these textures, swapping them out for animated psychedelic patterns in later versions, or may instead create their own custom textures.
Without this rule, it is possible to cut off one's access to still-unexplored parts of a maze if, instead of turning back, another arbitrary entrance is picked.
A decorative finial end is commonly attached or integrated into the ends of the bar or attached to the outside of the brackets to give a more decorative and less industrial look.
Chambord is the largest château in the Loire Valley; it was built to serve as a hunting lodge for Francis I, who maintained his royal residences at the Château de Blois and Amboise.
The Rudi Geodetic Point (Romanian: Punctul Geodezic Rudi) is a point of the Struve Geodetic Arc in Rudi, Moldova.
Sculpture of gods and kings were placed in temple compounds, along with sacred lakes and sacred groves.
Balconies have been shown to provide an overhang effect that helps prevent interior overheating by reducing solar gain, and may also have benefits in terms of reducing noise.
In addition, the International Residential Code (IRC) includes a definition of a "Type II" handrail that allows for handrail with a perimeter dimension greater than 6+1⁄4 inches (159 mm).
The city government found that the plots complemented the diets of the families and looked to expand the program.
It is located along the Highway 9 (E63), and the distance from the amusement park to the nearest big city, Jyväskylä, is 24 kilometres (15 mi).
A monumental façade on the south side gave access to the fountain through a portico lined with small Doric columns.
In 1991 StairMaster Exercise Systems, sued Temecula, California based Tru-Trac Therapy Products Inc.
